OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS



R39so
vel

SON OP A STAR

VOL. I.

srOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

SON OF A STAR

A ROMANCE OF THE SECOND CENTURY

BY

BENJAMIN WARD RICHARDSON

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I,

Ficta voluntas causa sit pvxiina veris' — Thor.

LONDON
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.

AND NEW YORK : 15 EAST 16'h STREET


All rights reserved

MY WIFE
5 MARY J. RICHARDSON

9 I DEDICATE

\^ WITH ALL MY HEART

S^ THIS BOOK

r* 'THE SON OF A STAR

London

25 Manchester Square
\ Midsummer Dan 1888

I

3:.

4"



B. W. R.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sonofstarromance01richa

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. AN OPENING VISION 1

II. VIVAT FIDELIS 12

III. MAN AND BEAST 34

IV. AVE C^SAK ! ^0

V. A Miracle 60

VI. A LIVING TORCH 70

VII. MIRTH AND MYSTERY 84

VIII. LAID LOW WITH WINE 99

IX. INTERPOSITION 130

X. IN THE CAP OF LIBERTY 145

XI. FROM BRITAIN TO JOPPA . . . 171

XII. A LEGEND OF PARADISE 182

XIII. THE LEARNED CHILD 192

XIV. THE SHEPHERD AND THE PRINCESS . . 198
XV. SCHOLARS AHEAD 245

XVI. IN HAPPY FLIGHT 257

CHAPTER I.

AN Opening VISION.

Come, my reader, come, and for a few short
hours dream with me. We shall not waste
time in a dream, since dreams, however intense,
are, usually, the fleeting passages of our
idle hours. For all that we may, perchance,
realise much that partakes of action, make
many new acquaintances, and learn the details
of many curious histories, places, and
persons.

With such prospects in view I ask you now,
with book in hand, to lay aside for the brief
time all ordinary cares and pleasures to dream
with me, and withal to trust me as I lead you
along from stage to stage. A novel, in order to
VOL. I. B

bear the truth of its name, must be novel, and
I promise that this shall open up a vision of
history new to a large majority and yet resting
on old realities, strangest of strange in the
past life of immortal races. Yes, a history !
but differing from common history just as a
dream, founded on the reading of a real page
of modern matter of fact, might leave the indefinite
thought ' Did I dream it or hear it ? '

FROM A BATTLEMENT.

A mighty encampment in Western Britain
stands near the spot where our vision is first
revealed. It is the temporary home of armed
legions, who bend to the will of one man as
trees bend to the wind, gently, so gently they
are barely, seen to move ; stately, so stately, as
if they were bowing their heads to a god of
war ; furiously, so furiously that lightning and
thunder, and hail and hurricane are combined
in a storm of destruction and death, clearing
all before them !

On the battlement of a tower built ages
after these legions were no more, we see, in
our vision, at the first glimpse, the lines of the

encampment of these men so well laid out and
so faithfully preserved, that all its parts are
easily filled up as the mind permits itself to
indulge in the efibrt.

The encampment is a square of eight
hundred yards on each side : a square with
earthworks for its ramparts, about fifteen feet
high on the inner side, and sloping so easily
that a man could run from the level to the
top at a breath. The ramparts are pierced
by four openings or portals, one commanding
each quarter of the heavens. The openings
are simply cut out of the earth ; there is neither
brick nor stone connected with them. Each
is closed, when required to be closed, by a
gate of massive wood, supported on huge
columns of wood or piles backed up by earth
and spanned over by a strong narrow bridge
also of wood, along which a solitary sentinel
silently paces, resting at intervals on his
spear, as if the spear with its shining point
aloft were a staff, held or fixed in its place
like a standard. As he rests he takes a
survey of the outer scene that lies beneath
him in tiers of external earthworks cut like
giant's steps one below another, and ending

B 2

at last in a deep incline which, in a descent
of five hundred feet, terminates gently in the
rugged plain from which the fortress takes its
rise.

Beneath the sentinels on the bridges spanning
the gates we see other sentinels on the
terraces which surround the encampment.
These form a watchful circuit, every man true
to his beat as the path of a sun. As they
meet each other on relieving guard they
exchange a password which our ear, preternaturally
acute, is permitted to catch. The
password is ' Fidelis ' of ' Caesarea.'

At this moment, for some reason, the encampment
is almost void of men. Men on
sentinel duty are there, but few other. Along
the main streets of the camp the sentinels, one
on each side, pass and repass in their measured
beats. Along the cross streets others do the
same, all of them on foot, but round the praetorium
and chief officers' quarters, and, everywhere
in the officers' part of the camp, the
sentries are mounted on horses noble as themselves.
On the top of the ramparts, all round,
soldiers of a superior order hold the watch.
These are men of rather advanced years. They

have served their time, but have chosen to stay
on, and they bear in their hands the javelin.
They are the glory of the army ; they fill every
post of solemn trust. They follow the commander
of the camp whoever he may be, and
on occasions of great ceremony surround him.
They wear as their armour a headpiece of
bright, almost white, metal, a shield of the
same metal on their left arm, and a plate of
it on their breast.

Intent as these various grades of guardians
of the camp are on their duty, they are
quick to listen, quick to hear ; and, as we
detect, they often pause to catch any sound
that may proceed from the south-western side
of their encampment, beyond a little wood
of pine-trees which skirts that spot and
descends over the lower ramparts into the
plain.

Our tower of observation, from which we
get our look into the encampment, is itself built
on a rising ground to the west of the camp.
Once on its site stood a temple, dedicated
to Apollo, traces of which yet remain beneath
the present foundations, and even before then
it had been a ruder temple of some previous

deity. Lost to both these, its first gods, it
was next transformed into a minster where
saintly devotees sang the early and the late
celebrations with the rising of the morn and
the closing of the night. And now for three
centuries it has been a simple parish church
standing alone in its glory, dear to its children
who worship in it the God of their fathers
and bury their dead under its shadows ; dear,
very dear to the archseologist, as belonging to
four great epochs of human faith, worship,
architecture, and race.

From the eastern wall of the battlement
of this holy place we have looked, in our
vision, into the encampment lying so grandly
before us, and now we will move across to the
western wall to discover what is giving rise
below to the clamours to which the sentries
listen as they tread their rounds. But as we
pass from the eastern wall of the tower to the
western, we catch sight in the distance, on the
northern side, beyond a stretch of beautiful
country, of a steep white road dividing a long
and dense wood. This were a picture in itself
even if it were one of still life, still as death.
It is not stilL for as we take the scene into

our mind we take also the fact that descending
that hard white road there is a cavalcade
in splendid marching order. As a bird would
fly the cavalcade seems almost close upon us,
although it is really some six or seven miles
distant ; for the road descends and afterwards
winds amongst the trees of the valley
below.

We discern that the members of the cavalcade
are a mixture of horse and foot soldiers,
the footmen in the centre marching nearly ina
square, the horsemen before and behind ina
longer and narrower line. The square of
footmen appears to enclose some great treasure,
as if it were moving with a citadel
within it ; but every part passes down the
incline with an order and steadiness which is
almost painful in its rigid regularity. The
metal caps of the soldiers, their breastplates
and the heads of their spears are dazzling from
the brilliancy with which they reflect the rays
of the sun ; and so, like a train of silver, they
descend into the depth that conceals them
from our sight.

This diversion of our senses over, we turn
now to take in the new view we were seeking,

and nearly at our feet discover a gigantic
amphitheatre crowded with spectators and
marvellous to behold.

The amphitheatre is an enclosed space
without ramparts, but laid out in some manner
like the interior of the encampment. It is
oblong in form, m which it differs from the
camp, and on the low walls of it within are
cut out tiers of seats raised one above
another and grass-covered. In the centre, on
the long side nearest to the camp, is a platform
or dais rounded in front so as to face the theatre
and retreating backwards into a roadway
which extends westward until it leads into the
western gate of the encampment. The dais is
large enough to seat a hundred persons, and
from the back of it rises the standard of the
Eoman eagle. Upon it are placed the seats of
honour for the commander of the forces and
his attendant officers. On the opposite side,
and precisely facing the dais, is another wide
opening, a grand gateway through which, probably,
they who may be about to take part
in the performances, contests, or speeches, may
make their entrances and exits. Beyond that
open gateway is the country, bounded in front

by a low range of hills and farther back by
mountains richly blue in colour and ending
in one lofty peak which seems to crown the
whole and shut off further view.

The place which lies immediately beneath
us is the grand circus of the Eoman Legions of
Britain. A circus which every Eoman soldier
has heard of, and which many thousands have
seen. A circus second only to that which Julius
Caesar built on Eoman soil itself. It is half
a mile in circumference, and will seat many
thousand spectators.

In detail the circus of Britain resembles and
yet differs from that of Eome. In it there is a
path round which horses ridden by men as well
as horses attached to chariots can race. In
it the racers, combatants, or performers enter
from the chief gateway opposite the dais,
and, marching across the arena by a path
laid out for them, proceed to a smaller arena
or ring immediately in front of the dais, in
which they carry out their minor combats or
games under the immediate eye of the presiding
genius of the fete ; or from which they
file out into the large arena, when horsemen,
swordsmen, runners or wrestlers are to

exhibit their mimic war or savage skill on a
grander scale.

The balconies of the circus are filled with
spectators, a mighty concourse of mixed
peoples wild with excitement if sounds maybe
accepted as evidence of expectation.

Some great event is surely about to take
place, for observe the standards of the eagle
are being raised above the balconies at fixed
points ; the centurions are placing their men
near each standard ; and the trumpets are
giving forth a deafening voice.

Let us descend from our distant height
and find a place somewhere on the balconies.
Take care ! that small ladder leading from the
door of the battlement to the beam below
which carries the bells is not too firm ; the
beam is not too broad, and the next ladder
leading down to the belfry might be stronger
and steadier. It is well not to look down but
to keep the eyes turned towards the inside of
the tapering spire. All right, we are in the
belfry and the steps to the chancel are winding
steps of stone, much worn but solid as
rocks. Never mind the darkness, it will last

but a moment ! We have reached the light,
and are through the low archway into the
open air !

m THE CONCOURSE.

Come with me ! Nothing save a field,
which we will quickly cross, lies between us
and the amphitheatre. Let us glide across,
skirting the path leading from the camp
to the tai's, but bearing a little to the right
that we may find a place in the balcony on
the left of the seats of honour. The magnates
from the camp have preceded us, and are
in their places by the time we have gained
our position, which fortunately commands a
splendid view of the whole scene and specially
of the General, who is seated like an Emperor
in the chair of state, and who is for the
moment the Emperor of western Eoman
Britain.

We can now look round at leisure. We are
privileged ! To the whole assembly before us
we are unseen spirits, though they are not such
to us. We dream, and they are the world in
which, during the time of our vision, we are
cast.

CHAPTER II.

VIVAT FIDELIS!

By our side, as we survey the wonderful scene,
are two men of quality whose conversation, as
we ere forced to hear it, tells us that they are
newly arrived from Eome. Everything is as
new to them as it is to us, if we may judge by
their words. They are commenting on the
differences of the Circus Britannicus and the
Circus Maximus of Caesar.

Why is the spina,' meaning the low wall
which ran nearly the whole length of the
Eoman circus, ' why, my Fabius, is the spina
left out in this place ? '

Nay, I know not,' answers the companion
of the questioner, ' nor why there is no
meta,' referring to the raised pillar at each
end of the spina which indicates the starting
and finishing points of the Roman course.

They are interrupted at this moment by

a new arrival, who hastily climbs the balcony
from the arena to greet them as strangers in
Britain but as old comrades in Rome.

By the gods it is Tinnius Eufus,' they
both exclaim ere they proceed to salute their
friend in the usual way with the kiss.

The person in question carries in his face
the height of good humour. He is of ruddy
complexion, and his beard and hair partake
of the same bright glow. He is rather stout
for his years, and his cheeks are roundly fat
and full as well as ruddy. After the salutations
they ask him the questions they have
asked themselves.

You wish to know, my Fabius, you wish
to know, my Yibullius,whythis circus, finished
by the hands of these legions here is not in the
Roman style. I will tell you. We found it, as
we found the camp, ready for use. In acres
to come the people will give us the credit of
building hundreds of Roman camps and circuses
in Britain, whereas we seized them all,
planned and made by these island savages.
This camp and amphitheatre we found in the
best condition after we had wrested them from
the people for whom, wishing to pacify them

as much as possible, we have let the circus
remain with the fewest possible changes. Here
the natives, still run their horses and chariots
and men, in contests round the broad course.
There, in the centre, where the earth rises
they once filled wicker cages with their victims
taken in war, and in honour of a sort of
Apollo of their own burnt the wretches alive.
In the fore, in front of our old schoolmate
Julius Severus, who, as you see, has risen to
the highest post here, is their lesser arena
surrounded by a pit, in which they make their
very cocks, armed on the claws with metal
spurs, fight till, like other fools of heroes, they
die immortal. Oh ! by Mars, these ancient men
of Britain knew how to play as well as fight.
If in the days of Caesar they had had Severus
there to lead them, it is more likely they
would have taken Eome than we their island.'
'Happy for us some good things have
crept in,' responded Fabius. 'The calx (the
chalk line) is there in order ; the General
sits in the tribune ; the podium holds the
officers ; the noble horsemen have their proper
places in the rear ; the masters of the ceremonies
are at their posts ; and the Mappa (the

ofBcer who throws down the white signal to
start each contest) is all alive. But where are
the judges?'

Severus himself is sole judge in Britain.'

'It is just,' replied Fabius, with the slight
reverence which the cultured Eoman offers
whenever the Emperor or his representative
is named. 'It is just, but I like not the
presence of those half clad viragos in the
popular ' (the seats where the public find
places). ' In Eome the women of position alone
are permitted in the presence of the Emperor,
and they near to or around his person, or by
the side of the senate.'

You do not understand these native
women, my Eoman child,' responds the red
beard, ' or you would speak of them in different
terms. They are not women, they are
demons. When Claudius made his way into
the east of the island, a woman who led the
people against him fought like a hundred
demons, and still her name is known and worshipped
far and wide. Ten women out of
twenty are named after her. My own Boadicea
bears her name, and our daughter the same.'

Heu ! ' falters out Vibullius. ' Lieu ! our

Tinnius has married a demon who heaps fire on
his head. No wonder he should look so fierce.'
Here the conversation of the friends is
stopped by the ring of the clarion, the rising
of the vast multitude from their seats, and a
general cry of the Eoman people present : —
The gods ! the gods ! the gods ! '
At the cry Severus himself rises reverently
from his throne, and now, for the first time,
we distinctly perceive two separate and hostile
races in occupation of the Circus Britannicus.
It may be that the difference of dress and
of costume distinguishes the races, for every
Eoman carries some sign of the conquering
Eoman soldier, while every native carries some
sign of the subdued savage ; it may be that the
difference of build of body distinguishes them,
for the Eoman, close-built, sturdy-limbed,
broad-faced, and round-headed, contrasts
strongly with the tall, lithe, long-limbed body,
and high, pointed, long head of the Briton.
But the grand distinction is in the expression
of the face of the two orders who make up the
multitude, a distinction terribly declared when
the clarion ring the order for the procession
of the gods.

In one sense the procession is of living
interest to both sets of spectators, for it
heralds some great sights or contests which
they are to behold, and which will stir their
blood up to fever point. But to the Eoman
the procession is a solemn religious rite, whilst
to the Briton it is a solemn mockery forced
on him until it pierces him to the soul. The
difference is as light to darkness.

The Briton has for ages worshipped the
sun, the moon, and the stars ; his great god is
one god who from earliest times has given
himself to mankind as fire : who shows himself
as the sun, and who is succeeded, when he
withdraws his glorious face of gold, either by
his child of silver the moon, or by night, the
black demon of darkness and symbol of eternal
death. To him, therefore, the worship of
these sticks and stones, called gods, carried in
their dumb and silly guises in chariots or on
the shoulders of men, to which dumb things
men bend their heads or prostrate their
bodies, is idle show and play. The expression
of the people tells their story of belief. The
Eoman reverently worships. The Briton,
forced by the sword, performs the worship
VOL. I. c

with an expression of hate, disgust, contempt,
revenge, which no sword, however keen, can
touch.

The faces of the subdued but not conquered
people tell the everlasting story, that the
mind of man is never, never vanquished. The
faces declare as distinctly as the tongues could
have told that the rulers of Britain withall
their might have still a deadly enemy on
their hands, an enemy they have for a moment
coerced but have not finally suppressed : an
enemy that will die but will never remain
enslaved.

The accursed gods,' murmurs a native
chief to his wife, in their native tongue.

Accursed ! ' hisses the woman between her
teeth, like the sound of a serpent ; ' I would
we could burn them with their followers in
the cages which once stood where the beasts
now fight.'

Silence ! ' calls out a Eoman centurion,
as with his viris or rod of the vine, which a
centurion always carries, he inflicts a deep
mark first across the bare shoulders of the
man and then of the woman ; ' silence ! and
pay homage to the immortal gods ! '

A groan, a curse, and a stiff-necked bend
of the head as the images pass are the answers
to this demonstrative command.

A suppressed cry from an almost adjoining
seat calls attention to two figures so different
to all the rest of the vast assembly and witnesses
of the passing drama that they must
surely belong to another and an unknown
land.

A man and a child.

But for the intense anxiety to see what
is to be exhibited in the arena, these two
strangers would of themselves be centres of
greatest? attraction and wonder. They are
neither Eoman, British, Cymric, Gallic, nor
Jewish ; but wanderers who might have
alighted from the skies.

The man is tall of stature, his countenance
gentle as it is wise, his hair dark, his
eyes blue. He is dressed in a garb itself
sufficiently picturesque and novel to arrest the
attention of the crowd near to him. Around
his body is a closely fitting jacket or jerkin,
with lappets artistically cut at the breast and
throat so as to show a fold or roll which
loosely encircles his neck. His lower limbs

c 2

are enclosed in loose trousers which reach just
below the knee and are gathered up with a
silken girdle. The legs are clothed in long
socks which extend to the knees, and are held
in place beneath the trousers by the girdle
of silk. The feet are hidden in shoes made
of leather or hide, laced in front with golden
cords and soled with some solid substance resembling
the bark of a tree, the point of the
shoe long and sharp. The jacket or body
dress is supplemented by a mantle of emerald
green, which, flowing over the under garments
of almost yellow tint, gives a richness and
chasteness of colour that is itself a picture.
Finally, a head-dress consisting of a loose cap
made of a substance like dark velvet, but of
coarser texture, completes a costume as singular
as it is convenient and graceful.

The companion of this strange being, obviously,
both from look and from manner, his
daughter, is, perhaps, more remarkable than
himself. She may be sixteen years of age,
but she retains all the innocence and beauty
of the child. Her eyes, like those of her
parent, are blue; her hair is a rich auburn,
falling in precious curls which, wafted from

her brow over lier shoulders, frame a face of
pale and saintly beauty. She is clothed in
one long dress of light yellow colour, gathered
in at the waist by a girdle of deeper colour,
and reaching to her feet which are clad in
sandals. Over her robe she, like her father,
wears a light mantle, also of emerald green.

As the sound of the first stripe of the
centurion catches her ear, she turns to learn
the cause, and seeing the cruel viris descend
over the bare shoulders of one of her own
sex, her gentle heart gives way, and, with the
faint cry already noticed, she nestles closer
to the side of her protector, and in a tongue
peculiar to themselves implores, ' Father of
love, let us go hence ! let us go hence ! '

In good time, joy of my soul, but for the
moment we must keep still or they may strike
us also.'

The idea seems so awful to the angelic
child that she entwines her arm in his and
buries her head in the folds of his mantle.
But soon she summons up courage, and relying
on that firm arm for support utters not
another word.

Whilst yet the red marks glow on the backs

of the offending natives, and whilst the stern
soldier looks on with contemptuous severity,
anew scene begins in which Briton and Eoman
alike take eager part.

The trumpets ring out sharp and shrill,
the clarion bray, the cymbals clash from one
end to the other of the immense concourse.
In time the human voices take up the strain.
The voices shout in chorus to the trumpets,
in shrieks to the clarion, in laughter to the
cymbals.

An officer in authority by the side of Julius
Severn s, the central figure of the scene, waves
aloft a white emblem, the starting-flag ; the
musical instruments and voices cease their
clamour, and through the ranks, everywhere,
the hips of a hundred centurions ring out the
words :

Sit down ! Sit down ! '
Severus himself, who has been standing
and eagerly viewing the multitude before him,
is the first to obey. He resumes with severe
dignity his vice-imperial throne.

And now all the throng is silent as the
grave. So solid is every figure, every standard,
every spear, it is as if the circus had

been stricken into a vast petrified sepulchre
of men, women, and arms.

A moment of repose and the officer near to
Severus, ' the Mappa,' lowers the white signal
to indicate that something is about to be done.

Solemnly and with imposing ceremony
there emerges from the gateway of the arena
on the extreme right of the throne a chariot,
hitherto concealed by a magnificent awning
or tent, extending far along the road to the
camp from the gateway. The chariot is of
golden splendour, and soon to it fifty noble
horses are attached in twenty-five pairs, while
the same number, also in pairs, follow behind
it. By each pair of horses stands a centurion.
Across his breast, over his armour, a broad
belt carries a long sword on his left side.
From his girdle on his right side is suspended
a short sword or dagger two spans long. His
body armour reaches to his knees, leaving
exposed below the powerful limbs and strongly
sandalled feet. His left hand rests on the
handle of the long sword ; his right grasps
the viris, or rod, which is peculiar to the rank
of a centurion.

A soldier more thoroughly ready for victory
or death it were indeed hard to find.

The rapidity with which these active men
take their places on the left of the pairs of
horses they have to govern is in itself a marvel
of mechanical life. The horses and men are
ready to move at a word.

Men and horses form three long lines, each
straight as an arrow.

Severus nods approval, and * when Severus
approves all men may be satisfied.* So runs
the saying from lip to lip, respecting the
man who takes his name from his nature,
Julius the Severe.

Not a bridle, not a halter, is fitted to the
finely trained horses which draw or follow the
chariot ; a light leathern collar chastened with
silver encircles their stately necks, and on
each side from it a silver cord acting as a
trace connects one horse to the other and
the leaders to the chariot ; the viris and the
voice of each master are alone sufficient to
lead these brave and intelligent animals anywhere,
to sport, to fight, to triumph, to death.

The eyes of the horses follow those of their
masters, who, bare-headed, move on in one

living and unbroken form, one mechanism,
one movement, one mind.

The savage Briton, still writhing under his
punishment, cannot withhold his admiration.

Oh Troth the everlasting,' he mutters
to himself, 'why hottest thou these brazen
heads learn to control, by magic, the noblest
servant thou hast created for those who serve
thee ? '

The chariot so magnificently horsed and
tended is strangely occupied.

It is a chariot of the true Eoman style,
but somewhat larger than those in common
use. It is borne on two low wheels, is
entered from behind, and is rounded in frontin
order to afford convenient space for the
driver.

But this time no driver is needed, and
none is there.

In the centre of the floor of the chariot,
upright as a dart, immovable, his left hand
resting on his sword-handle, his right hand
holding the viris, stands another centurion, in
each and every respect like one of the leaders
of the horses, except that he is more majestic

than any of them, that his head is bare, and
that from his left shoulder a sagum, or military
cloak, falls gracefully on his left side.

To him this day is the event of his life ;
for to his especial honour this festival of gods
and men is devoted.

And, posed like a pillar of the State, he
claims the honour naturally, as an honour
rightfully and worthily won.

He is not, however, alone in his splendour.
At his feet, her back resting against the forepart
of the chariot, in the graceful curve of
it, there sits a female figure. Is she a child,
a gir], a woman .^

Let it be assumed that she is a woman, but
very young.

Her rich black hair is trimmed into the
shape of a helmet. It is a crest overhanging
a brow beneath which the eyes of an eastern
face, eyes of darkened fire, sparkle like gems ina
cave. She is clothed in the stole or woman's
toga, differing from the Eoman male toga in
that its edges are fringed. The stole is of the
purest white, the stole of the festival, like
the surplice of a priest, except that a light
but flowing girdle somewhat tightens it to her

body. Her feet are clad in white slippers,
which complete her attire.

In her right hand this companion of the
mighty centurion bears a mystical emblem
dedicated to Apollo. This banner she holds
aloft by a white wand. It is round . like the
sun, and on its face, on each side, bears the
radiant image of that luminary in rays of
gold on a surface of red. In its centre are
three letters, in the Greek character, the
sacred symbol, meaning that the god has an
existence or being, and that all the children
of men, and all created beings, are animated
by his light and his life.

As the last pair of horses are attached to
the chariot, and as the cortege begins to move
in procession round the course, the deeply
suppressed silence bursts forth into tumult.
Three times round the course the cortege
slowly passes, and each time with increasing
excitement. In the stir it is hard to view
calmly the hero of the hour or his companion,
but by patient waiting they are revealed.

He is a soldier of soldiers. He stands like
a rock in a raging sea of life, unmoved and
unmoveable, and his manner is followed by his

companion with equal serenity. The cold
piercing glance of Severus touches neither of
them, nor the scream of the virago, nor the
gestures of the three Eoman friends who discuss
the sight.

He bears himself,' observes Tibullus, * as
if he were going into battle.'

'Nay,' suggests the classical Fabius, 'he
goes as if he were about to meet the Council
of Minds in the Heavens of the illustrious
dead.'

Or,' put in the much married Tinnius,
as if he were about to face his wife.'

If these were tests of merit, and if he concerning
whom they were spoken were bent on
proving them as such, he did indeed win all
the praise he earned.

A fig for the Council of Minds and the
native Tinea of Tinnius ; a fig for the man in
the chariot and all his fame; the woman, the
woman for me ! ' ejaculated Tibullus. 'She is
worth twenty of the man, she is a centurion
of a woman and one in a thousand. But
who, my hen-pecked, rubicund Tinnius, who,
by Venus and the mother of the gods, is she ? *

The excited Tinnius is too intent at the-moment

to answer this eager and natural
question, and before it can be repeated a new
event has occurred which seizes the attention
of all who are near at hand and, in some
degree, of the spectators generally, including
the keen-eyed Severus.

As the chariot passes for the third time
the place where the stranger man and his
child are seated the bearer of the sacred emblem
in the chariot turns, by accident, her face
towards them.

It is the merest accident, the merest
glance, a glance on strangers of strangers to
her!

What is there in a glance ? We brincr a
loadstone near to a particle of steel, a suspended
needle : the point of the needle may
fly to the magnet ; ah no ! it flies from it.
Why?

The puzzle is but partially solved, so is the
puzzle of a glance. The glance may be love ;
ah, no ! it may be hate. It may be trust,
or courage ; ah no ! it may be distrust or
awe ; it may be surprise or wonder.

In this case, as the dark eyes of the woman
in the chariot receive, through the distance.

the glances from the blue eyes of those strangers
they excite in her a double impression.

The eyes of the angelic child excite wonder,
intense and startling ! While the eyes of the
protector of the child excite awe ; for the
first time in all her life, awe ; awe, sudden
and incomprehensible.

The emblem of Apollo falls on the knees of
its bearer.

Apollo goes down in the noontide of his
glory,' observes Fabius, ' 'tis a bad omen.'

And, such is the influence of the omen on
the minds of the Eoman people, that there is
not a Eoman there, from the camp servant
to the vice imperial Severus, who does not
feel the vibration, with one exception.

The exception is the centurion of the chariot.
He, with his eyes fixed in space, heeds not,
and, gathering resolution from his iron will,
the bearer of the emblem, raising her hand to
put back a wandering lock of hair which has
fallen over her brow, lifts up the banner again,
in graceful movement, as if the whole had 'been
a mere natural act on her part, an act intended
and harmonious with her duty.

The skilful diversion is rewarded with a

new burst of applause, which, coming after a
pause of silence, is a proof of success. Eome
is itself again ! And now once more the
inquisitive YibuUius returns to his speculation.
Who is this woman of women, and who is this
man of men ? Who are they both that they
should excite so much admiration ? They are
not patricians he knows, why then are they
so honoured ?

There is vanity, as usual, in the thought
which fills Tibullus. ' Here am I,' it says
silently, * I Tibullus, one of the most ancient
of the great families of Eome, before whom
that Julius Severus is a mere mushroom, and
the Emperor himself but a plant of a single
season at the best. Here am I, unknown
and unhonoured, while these two plebs of
plebs, and one of them an eastern mockery,
a slave it may be, or a creature of Severus,
are treated like gods I I must know who and
what they are.'

His curiosity has not long to wait, for ere
he can return to the task of questioning the
Need-beard, the chariot stops before the seat of
Severus ; the twenty-five pairs of the foremost
horses are detached from it and are moved

forward on the course, to stand at some little
distance from the chariot ; and, the shrill blast
of the trumpet from the back of the dais is
calling the lookers-on once more to silence.

Complete order restored, Severus descends
from his throne, and stepping forward to the
edge of the dais close to which the chariot
is drawn, rests his right foot on the edge of
the chariot and places, amidst a storm of
trumpets, clarion, cymbals, and voices, a
chaplet of laurel on the head of the centurion.

In a moment all is still, as Severus returns
to his seat.

At the sign of the commander, the Public
Orator, the renowned Saserna, whose voice
could shake the camp, stands forth. In his
left hand he bears a scroll, in his right hand a
spear held firmly like a staff*.

What he has to declare is again heralded
by the voice of the trumpet, from which he
seems, by some clever art, to attune his own
voice as musicians set their lutes to a tuning-fork,
so that the note of the trumpet and the
voice of Saserna hold on the sound into
articulate words which all can hear. And soin

the language first of Eome and then of
Britain, he delivers his message : —

The army, Eome, and the Emperor,
through Julius Severus, Governor of Siberia
in Britain, confer a crown of honour on
Fidehs of Caesarea, a centurion, who after
eight decades of noble service, devoted to
the Gods, to Eome, to Caesar, and to Glory,
reaches his hundredth year of Life.'

Vivat Fidelis ! '

TOL. L

CHAPTER III.

MAN AND BEAST.

YiVAT FiDELis ! Yivat Fidelis ! ' rincrs aofain
and again, and still the centurion of a hundred
years-is unmoved in this place. But enthusiasm,
like all else that is human, must die,
and in time this great demonstration passes
into silence. The horses before and behind the
triumphal chariot are separated in pairs and
led away, until one pair alone remains to draw
the chariot and those that are in it towards
the vestibule from which it first emerged into
the public view.

As the last sign of the centurion disappears
Severus and those around him retire
for an interval into a tent at the back of the
dais over which the Roman standard proudly
floats.

And now, waiting for the next event, the
great assembly reposes.

Meantime the armed attendants clear the
arena, and prepare for some momentous and
thrilling spectacle.

The faces of the masses begin to resume
their respective characteristics : the Eoman
faces are eager ; the Britannic are savage ;
the Jewish — for there is a fair sprinkling of
Jewish blood in the audience — solemn and sad.

Severus is again in his place, the signal
is given and the procession of the gods once
more makes its round.

What next have they in store for us ? '
the comrades of Tinnius Eufus ask eagerly and
with one voice.

A battle, a battle ! A battle between
wolves, a bear and a boy !'

Say rather between wolves, a fiend of
darkness, and an angel of light,' sighs one who
sits near, and hears the question and answer
it has evoked.

The speaker speaks in the Eoman tongue
but with a foreign accent ; and, though his
words are clearly understood, they come forthwith
so much emotion they almost choke him
on their way.

Judices, a Jew,' whispers Tinnius. ' It

D 2

is one of this tribe that is about to compete in
the arena.'

A Jew in Britain ! ' ejaculates Tibullus in
an undertone. ' Turn wherever we may and
these dogs are to be found. Jews in Britain,
indeed I '

I tell you,' continues Tinnius, leading his
friends a little higher up the balconies, ' there
are thousands of them, and here they flock
most ; for, after the taking of their holy city,
during the reign of Vespasian, they wandered
everywhere, and in these Silurian
mountains and caves met with a native race
which took to them so kindly that they have
become quite numerous here, and, from the
coasts about, have opened trade with the
Phoenicians of Tyre and Sidon. It is the policy
of Severus, generally, to be at peace with the
creatures, for they roll in money, and, too obstinate
for deep friendship, are hard to please.'

And who is this one of their race who is
going to give us a treat of his metal ? ' asks
Fabius, ' Can they fight as well as they can
barter ? '

You shall see. This is one of them : a
youth whom Fidehs the centurion brought

with him from Caesarea, a slave whom lie had
freed some think, but not all ! '

I dare say not, thou winking ferret,' breaks
in YibuUius ; ' but why should he be called
into the arena if he be, as thou suggested,
the centurion's Hush and blood ? What hath
he done that he should make sport for wolves
and savages ? '

'He hath passions during which his tongue
hath declared his hatred of Eome. He hath
refused to offer incense to Caesar, or even to
lay incense on the altar of Ceres when her
richest harvest in Britain, in the memory of
man, called for her festival.'

But there he comes. Judge for yourselves
! '

He comes as anything but a slave. By
Apollo, he comes like a rising sun ! ' exclaims
Fabius, as the youth of whom they speak is
led before the august presence of the vice-emperor.


A rebellious Syrian,' murmurs the Need
Beard.' I would I could wring his stiff neck
as I liked !'

A noble child, dio fears no hand of man
and obeys none but the Holy One of Israel,'

communes the Jewish sympathiser who spoke
a short time before. ' May the God of
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob be with him, ashe
promised to our forefathers Abraham and
his seed for ever. Amen.'

The prayer of this Israelite — ' Aaron of the
Altar ' by name amongst his own, ' Porous '
a pig, amongst the Eoman people — is echoed
silently by many of his race who in various
disguises are present.

He, Aaron, being a freedman, has no occasion
for disguise ; he is reputed to be so rich
that Severus himself is oftentimes his debtor.
But even he has to be careful of his words
and acts for the sake of his people, whom it is
his destiny to govern in silent government. He
is their father ; he reads to them in secret
the sacred law ; he proves and confirms them
in their faith ; he settles their differences ; he
marries their young people according to ancient
rite ; he keeps before them the name
and word and promise of the Mighty One of
Israel, and teaches them, in that holy name,
to believe that though they walk through the
valley of the shadow of death, he, the Mighty
One, is with them ; that his rod and staff shall

guide them ; that his kingdom is at hand; and
that the Eoman power shall have no permanent
hold on the children of Zion.

And still, wise as the serpent, gentle as
the dove, he advises them to pay homage unto
Caesar, and even lay incense on the pagan altars,
lest for their unnecessary obstinacy, they perish
by fire, cross, or sword.

He is indeed wise, and his people know
him as if he were the chief of chief Rabbis in
this foreign, distant, isolated land.

He pronounces his prayer, for the youth
before the dais, with his eyes bent to the earth ;
but the sound of the first clarion makes him
raise them and cast them on the type of his
race, who so proudly and defiantly stands
forth for fate.

Oh, brave but foolish child !' he mentally
laments, 'oh, bold but reckless Simeon of my
people ! Why didst thou not bend in body
to these tyrants ? Why didst thou not take
heed to thy ways, and offend not with thy
tongue? Why didst thou refuse counsel of
him whose royal blood is in thy veins ? "Be
not righteous overmuch, neither make thyself
overwise ! " Why shouldest thou destroy

thyself? Why shouldest thou die before thy
tune ? '

Meanwhile, he who is thus commented on
by Aaron of the Altar and a hundred men of
his race, remains standing in simple majesty.
Brought out for the sport of a savage multitude,
his young life at stake, he of all seems most
exalted and commanding. Severus on high, in
his viceregal seat, clad in imperial robe, the
white toga with purple border, surrounded by
his six victors bearing their fasces or rods, the
standard of the Eoman empire overshadowing
him, and the sword, the spear, and saddle of
Eoman knighthood at his feet, even he seems
to feel the common spell of admiration, as bending
down to his nearest attendant he enquires :
Of what doth this contest consist ? '
'The youth, a Jew, most noble Severus,
who stands before you armed with the short
sword which he holds in his left hand, but
which he uses with either hand with equal
dexterity, is to be turned into the small arena,
surrounded by the deep pit, in company with
the Numidiann bear belonging to the centurion
Milo and six famishing wolves. The
bear, armed with a huge club for a weapon, is

to engage the wolves with the Jew, and, if they
two despatch the wolves, they are themselves
to fight with club and sword till one is killed.
The victor is then to be at the disposal of the
people.'

It is a new sport,' observed Severus in a
tone and manner implying that this is the first
he has heard respecting the combat or the
combatants.

And still Simeon the Jew stands as a
model of masculine beauty and godlike life.

He is five feet nine inches in height, and
in body and limb of fine proportion. He
wears on his body a closely fitting leathern
jerkin, with a light tunic suspended from it
and reaching to the knees. The tunic is held
up by a red sash, which fits like a belt and
falls negligently in two loose ends or tassels
on his left side. His arms, excessively powerful,
but almost white in colour and shaped
like those of a woman in respect to symmetry
and outline, are entirely free ; his lower limbs,
equally well formed and strong, are girt only
in a light sandal, the thong of which is fancifully
twisted around the ankle and a short
distance up the leg.

His head is uncovered, except for its rich
raven hair which hangs in clusters at his
back down to his shoulder-blades, and is parted
from his forehead over the exact centre of
the crown of the head. His face, of striking
cast, with pointed chin, aquiline nose, piercing
dark eyes, long arched dark eyebrows meeting
at the centre, and a broad though retreating;
forehead, is the perfected image of the perceptive,
ready, fearless, resolute, reckless spirit
that animates the whole frame of the man
with living fire. On him, thus standing before
the Eoman chief, undaunted and bright of
countenance, the British woman, still smarting
from the viris, looks with more of admiration
than prudence, a state suddenly checked by
the aspect and growl of her jealous lord, who,
tolerating from her no admiration that is not
expended on his own uncouth self, shows his
teeth dangerously.

The trumpet proclaims a new arrival and
a new step in the coming drama.

Along the grand path of the circus, towards
the ring facing the dais, Milo the centurion
leads, by a light chain, the second combatant,
the Numidiann bear.

The audience, from Severus to the lowest
slave, is startled with delight or with wonder.
Whether it be really a bear or a man disguised
as a bear is the puzzle.

The excitement is such that waters bei?in
to be laid on the point.

I wager a flagon of red wine it is a bear,'
exclaims the excited Tibullus. 'See thou its
head, its ears, its big eyes, its huge frame ? '

I take the wager wilhngiy,' returns the
calmer Fabius, ' and to-night we will drink it
with song and story. I stand by the feet, the
hands, the limbs, which, covered with bear
hide though they be, are human. Besides,
seest thou not the height of the beast ? No
bear standeth that height, a head or more
above the handsome Jew, who is of good proportion
; his walk also is that of a man, and
mark how he holds that fearful club as if it
were a javelin or a spear. A bear would hug
the thing close to its body, not push it forth
at arms' length like that.'

At this moment all the mystery vanishes.
By a jerk of his body the Numidiann bear
throws back the head-piece of the animal as if
it were a hood, and stands declared a man, with

a human head and face stained dark as the
hairy skin which clothes his body.

He is indeed a sight of terror. His own
hair stands erect ; his large fierce eyes roll
in fury from side to side ; his nostrils dilate ;
his red lips are curled apart, showing rows
of large teeth white as snow and round and
regular as those of any beast of the field ; his
ears, naturally large, he moves at will ; while
by an action of the muscle of the head and
forehead he possesses the power of drawing
down his hair until it seems to touch his eyebrows
and then of lifting it back until all the
fore part of his head looks actually bald.

To the infinite delight of the spectators
before whom he stands, he goes through these
gestures at the command of his master, until
weary of the sight they crave for some new
pastime.

In form the creature is massive, yet well
shapen ; his body is finely proportioned, his
limbs, as far as can be judged of them covered
as they are with bear-skin, are large, strong,
and lissom ; the nails of his fingers and toes
are long and claw-ike.

As to costume he wears but the one garment,

the veritable skin of a huge black bear.
His arms are thrust through the skin in which
the upper limbs of the original animal played :
his legs are thrust through the similar parts
of the hinder limbs. Over the fore part of the
body the skin is lashed with leathern thongs.
As already seen, the bear's head is now thrown
back like a hood, while a small bushy tail at
the nether extremity forms a ludicrous protuberance.,
which wags with every movement,
and excites the wildest laughter when nothing?
serious intervenes to change the general
humour.

At another order from his master the
human monster exhibits his prowess with his
club, a weapon which reaches to the height of
his chin, and which, thick as his own thick arm
at its further end, tapers down towards its
handle in even and regular form. Made of a
hard dark wood, like solid oak, the weight of
this weapon is amazing, yet the creature wields
it as if it were a reed. Loosened, by Milo, from
his chain, he steps backward a few paces further
from Severus, and, after kneeling on one knee
in reverence, rises, and by an upward jerk
casts the club straight into the air many feet,

like a dart, and waiting for its fall, which
seers to be directed, inevitably, towards the
top of his own head, catches it by its handle
as it falls before him, ere it touches the
ground ; then, whirling it fiercely above his
head, he flings it from him in a long curve,
full twenty yards, and rushing after it catches
it again before it falls.

The multitude howl with delight, and
when, in another new feat, the monster seizes
the handle of the club with both hands, spins
it round and round, until by the momentum
it carries his body with it with such rapidity
that he and it resemble a wheel — himself the
centre and the thick end of the club the
circumference — the fury mounts to delirium ;
the cymbals strike in, the clarion bray, and
the trumpets ring in wild and indescribable
confusion.

With perfect ease and with marked grace
he makes the revolving wheel stop, and order
is restored.

And now the combatants are placed face
to face before Severus, ten paces apart, ready
at a sign from the Mappa to begin the combat
which they have to face.

At the sign from the Mappa, a cage of a
curious construction winds along the grand
path. It is an iron cage in which six famishing
wolves are confined. The noise from
them alone is sickening, and the expression of
their fierce despair, as they thrust their muzzles
and their paws through the bars of the cage,
is appalling to witness.

Severus himself affects not to see them ;
the Mappa turns away as if about to give a
direction to some one in the rear of him ;
Tinnius and his friends stop their ears, and the
Eomans generally are not particularly pleased.
But the native Britons rejoice. The wolf is
their native natural enemy. To hunt the
beast, to kill him, to carry his head to the
chief, and to receive the reward for the same
is the perfection of sport.

No better game could the Eoman tyrants
have selected for the children of Britain than
the killing of wolves by man. Two men to
six wolves ! It is beyond admiration.

The small arena or ring is two hundred
yards in circumference. It is surrounded by
a deep pit fifteen feet wide, from the edge of
which, and pointing to the centre, a few inches

apart, stand out a double row of pikes, forming
a fence of iron palisade and rendering escape
from the arena impossible, or as it would seem
impossible. And yet every one can see any
sport going on within the circle.

A narrow bridge of earth, just wide enough
to allow for the passage of the cage, separates
the small arena from the dais. The two human
victims are to be led into the centre of this ring.
They are to be followed by the cage of wolves.
The cage is to make, slowly, the complete
circuit within the circle, and brought partly
out of the narrow gateway of the bridge is
to fill up the passage. Then the back of the
cage is to be let down, and remaining as a
fence to the bridge, the furious brutes are to
be allowed to leap into the arena and kill, orbe
killed by, their human assailants.

Another wager, another flask of rich red
wine, if on this savage island it can be obtained,'
cries Vibullius ; ' another wager, this time on
the wolves and the bear ; an amphora, if you
like, an amphora ! '

I back willingly the young Jew against
all the beasts,' responds Fabius gravely. ' The
gods favour beauty.'

But not his gods ; they, 'tis said, delight
in no man's beauty. I back the wolves and
the glorious bear.'

So let it be and let Tinnius hold the
stakes, if he is sure his wife will not steal
them ere he joins us at the settlement.'

No fear, no fear, my comrades,' exclaims
the delighted Eed Beard. ' I'll bury them until
nightfall, when we will reclaim them and bury
them again in our own skins. Moreover, we
shall have something to talk about, for this
will be a combat of combats, one, if I mistake
not, to be remembered for ages in Britain
and related even in Eome. If the men beat the
wolves, they are to fight until one of them falls,
and after that the conqueror is still to be at
the will of the people.'

And, such is the barbarous soul of all-conquering
Eome, that they to whom this
news is conveyed, they, sons of the highest
and most accomplished families of the empire,
they, men of refinement and culture, as
they rank amongst their peers, receive the
information with the simple, cruel, gratified
observation :

It is good ! '

VOL. I. E

CHAPTEE IV.

AVE C^SAR!

QycE more the trumpets ring out. The two
human victims, for such they are, are being
led forth, the cage of wolves is following,
and the multitude is raised to such excitement
that the minutes seem hours.

The Mappa is preparing to raise the signal.
He has attached it to a cord, in order that he
may draw it up to the top of a staff, that all
may see it and observe the moment when it
shall fall and the wild beasts be set free into
the ring.

The silence that precedes this final act
seems to be felt by the wild beasts themselves,
as if they knew their prey was at hand, and
their cravings were about to be satisfied.

The silence is more distressing than
the clamour ! But the signal is rising and
suspense will soon cease I

The spell is broken, not by the fall of the

expected signal, towards which so many eyes
are turned, but by a loud clang and noise in
the rear of the dais. Severus, who is leaning
forward eagerly intent as the rest, starts as
though he had been struck in the back.

He has not recovered his surprise when a
messenger approaches him, and, with knee
bent to the floor, presents to him a missive or
despatch. Severus breaks the seal, reads with
wild wonder ; then speaks to the Mappa, and
evidently issues some new command, for that
important officer straightway raises his wand
as an intimation that hostilities must wait.

A moment more and Saserna, the Orator,
after conference also with Severus, stands
before the people, and with his trumpet-voice
proclaims : —

Let the combats be suspended, and the
sport remain as it is until the signal for it be
again given. And, let no one move from the
place he occupies on penalty of death.'

The voice ceases, the multitude composes
itself to a fearful suspense, not one daring even
to move until Severus, who, with a sad and

e2

LIBRARY

humiliated expression on his kingly face, rises,
and, followed by his victors, officers and standardbearer,
retires from the scene into the
pavilion leading from the dais.

Silence ! silence ! silence ! silence ! in the
four quarters of the amphitheatre. Silence ! '

By an order to the men in charge of the
cage of wolves, the cage is drawn back
along the path whence it came, and out of
sight and hearing. But the human victims
are left near the gate of the enclosure, face to
face. In time the tone and temper of the great
audience affects them, and they also turn their
eyes to the dais, and join in the common
wonder.

At last expectation is rewarded. A band
of centurions, Fidelis of a hundred years at
their head, make their appearance on the dais,
and under his direction form into two lines
with a wide path between their ranks.

And now through the open space, on the
way to the seat of state, there comes a new
procession.

The maiden of the chariot and companion
of Fidelis leads the way, dancing the most exquisite
of dances to the clashing of cymbals

which she holds above her head, until she
reaches the front of the throne, before which
she gracefully casts herself almost at full
length upon the ground.

She is followed by a soldier, bare-headed,
in marching order, carrying his sword : a
man of scarcely middle age, fresh, evidently,
from a long march, and distinguishable only
from the ordinary Eoman soldier by one and
singular mark of distinction.

At his back a tall slave bears on the staff
of a spear, over his head, a diadem of gold,
and from time to time whispers in his ear some
solemn injunction.

They who are near can catch the words : —

Remember that thou art but a man.'

By all the gods ! ' exclaims the astonished
Fabius to his friends, ' it is '

His sentence is cut short by the trumpet
blast and voice of Saserna from the left of the
throne : —

To your knees all men, women, and children
! Let every knee bend to the earth to
Caesar. '

In an instant the multitude obeys, all but
the two combatants and he to whom the
homage is paid ; from Severus on his right
hand to the meanest slave ; each and all bend
to the earth before this human deity.

The Emperor Hadrian !

At this solemn moment the three men
remaining erect form a triangle ; a Jew, of
noble bearing and beauty, and a disfigured
Slave of gigantic build form the angles of its
base ; while the Prince of all the civilised
world forms its apex.

There is something fearfully strange in the
sight of a mighty mass of human beings in one
fixed attitude, and to Hadrian, impressionable
almost to madness, this vast crowd prostrate
at his feet is the strangest event of his romantic
life. He is moved even to tears, and
clutches his sword as if to find support.

His eyes fall on the two extraordinary
beings who, like himself, stand erect above the
prostrate humanity, and his soul is disquieted
in a way akin to fear. A strange thought
crosses his mind : ' To whom do all these
creatures bend, to me, or to one of these
make sports ; to me, or to that youth who

stands like Apollo ; or to that giant who stands
like Hercules ? ' Then, as he scans the face
and figure of the youth, he trembles. It is
a face he has never seen before, yet he knows
it : the face turns as if to give him another view
of it. He knows it better, and is perturbed the
more. The face strikes him both with admiration
and affection. It cannot be, but it is : —
Would that he were my son,' is the
sentiment which, unbidden, rises in his breast
may be merely the sigh of a childless
man. There are such sighs, and this is from
the heart, as they ever are.

He must not wait now either to philosophise
or to lament ; those bending forms
must be set free. Already they have been
constrained too long.

The Emperor takes his seat, and at a breath
from his lips the word of command follows : —

It is the will of Caesar that the people rise,
and that the combat commence at the proper
signal.'

The order also goes forth by signs that the
Care of wolves be recalled.

Meanwhile, to fill up the interval, the
Numidia bear is brought before the Emperor,
and, at command from Milo, once more goes
through his wondrous feats of skill.

To Hadrian the whole scene is novel of
novel. Arrived but lately in Britain, and
travelling by rapid marches since the day of
his disembarkation at Dola on the eastern
side of the Island, he has seen no signs of
sports, nor, indeed, any evidences of a civilised
community. A Circus Maximus such as this
is therefore to him a surprise. The modifications
of the plans of the circus, the faces of the
people, the customs, are all further novelties
on which for a passing moment he is inclined
to dwell.

What, ' asks he of Severus, who is now
seated on his right hand, ' what is the nature
of the coming combat ? '

In briefest terms the Vice-Euler tells him
the nature of it, and of the two men who are
to share in it.

And which,' he asks, ' is the most skilful?'


They are of such different bloods, great
Prince,' returns Severus, 'I dare not wme.

The youth, a Jew called Simeon, exalted by a
visionary enthusiasm, is filled with the idea
that, pre-ordained by the gods, or rather his
God, for great glory, he cannot be killed or
die, but, like one of his ancestors, will be
received into heaven in a chariot of fire.
To this he adds skill and agility with the
short sword. The Numidiann, on the other
hand, relies on his strength, the strength of
Hercules himself. He has never yet failed
to break with that ponderous club every bone
in the body of his enemy.'

Is he without fault ? ' asks Hadrian, who
is quick to feel general impressions of faults
which others do not perceive, a faculty on
which he greatly prides himself.

He is said to have one fault, for which
his late master sold him cheaply to Milo, the
centurion there, whose property he now is.'

Some failure of sic^ht or of limb ? '

No, Prince, he hath no fault of that
nature, as you may deduce from what you have
witnessed. He handles his club as if it were
a javelin ; but he is said to be possessed of a
demon who at times throws him to the earth,
tears him so that he raves, becomes hideous

of expression, gasps for life, foams at moiitli,
pierces this flesh with his talons, and bites his
tongue almost attain.'

• Enough ! enough ! ' ejaculates the Emperor,
such an one were best dead. Were it the will
of Jove that the damned spirit which inhabits
these creatures could die with them, I would
that youth's sword were deep in the. monster's
heart. Unhappily, the accursed thing leaves
one body only to enter another. But who is
this maiden at my feet ? '

Her Jewish and real name as I have heard
is Huldah, after a prophetess of her people.
But in the camp she passes as Fidelia, because
Fidelis, a centurion, who is a hundred years
old to-day, and in whose honour this festival
is held, bought or found her, as well as the
youth Simeon, during the reign of Trajan.'

Is she also inspired ? ' asks the still more
startled Emperor.

In a different way ; she forecasts events ;
breaks forth suddenly into music and song,
as you. Prince, have witnessed ; heals wounds,
cures the sick, and withal wields the sword
and casts the javelin like a trained soldier.'

By Bacchus ! noble Praetor, methinks thou

art in love With the maiden, for which I blame
neither thy taste nor thy judgment ; yet tell
me one thing more : mine eyes seize in the
distance the figures of a noble man and a child
of immortal beauty. Are they from the skies ? '

They are strangers, Prince. A chief and
a child, as I have but just learned, of the
western island of Juverna, on which Eoman
foot never stood ; the Island, so-called, of
Peace and Beauty.'

I knew not that the whole world possessed
such a spot,' sighs the ruler of the world. ' I
would I were there ! Meantime let the combat
open, and see to it that in the evening I
hold converse with this wondrous chieftain.'

CHAPTEE V.

A MIRACLE.

To show the due reverence to the powers of
heaven by the powers of earth, the procession
of the gods once more advances as preliminary
to the contest of men with beasts.

The ceremony duly celebrated, the human
victims are led into the ring;. The cao^e of
wolves follows ; it makes its way slowly round
and comes back to the entrance. It is drawn
by eight men, two abreast ; a single pole, a
shaft with four crossbows attached to it breast-high,
forms the means by which the men, who
are professed wolf-trainers, propel the machine
along.

As they reach the narrow portal of the
ring they leave the cage or wolf-chariot in the
gap ; then their leader, by means of an iron
rod, lets down the back of the cage, his men
lift up the pole, and the wolves are tilted out

on to the green sward of the ring. The brutes
roll over each other, and for a moment fight
with each other : they recover themselves, regain
their feet, and form a circle, their noses
almost touching.

'They are holding a council of war, the
brutish beasts,' observes Yabullius.

Not worse than a human council,' is the
reply of Fabius.

Hark ! the council is over ; they have
determined on attack.'

A perfectly fiendish howl of the beasts,
with their heads in the air, declares this fact.

They are invoking their gods,' continues
the rude Vibullius. ' Oh, gods of wolves ! hear
their prayer, for I have backed them to my
last coin.'

The two men in the ring are as different
in their proceedings as if they were from a different
sphere. The attitude of the Numidiann
is one of watchful zeal to protect, apparently,
not himself so much as his comrade.

He is not going to let the wolves kill
Simeon, if they dared,' muses Aaron of the
Altar.

He is reserving the honour of that

achievement to himself,' thinks Severus ; and
so think many more.

As to Simeon, he seems to care no more
than if he were strolling in a garden.

In time the wolves form a semicircle
towards the men, who stand back at the far
edge of the ring near to the pit, but facing
the dais.

Gradually and stealthily they close in on
the men, who can retreat no further, as if atone
spring they will seize their limbs and
throats and finish them straightway.

They are interrupted in their scheme by
the Numidiann, who, with club raised, rushes
towards the centre of the foe, and, leaping
clean over the two brutes in the centre, turns
back, and, with deadly blows dealt right and
left, lays two of his fiercest enemies helpless
at his feet.

They two are now easy prey : the mighty
club puts them quickly out of all their
misery.

The native Briton rubs his hands with
glee. * There is not a bone in the body of
the beasts that is not smashed. This is sport,
indeed ! '

Two of the wild beasts gone,' reckons the
silent but less pleased Severus.

By what spell is that Jew protected ? '
wonders Hadrian; for the four remaining
wolves, all but surrounding Simeon, seem to
lie down at his bidding.

He makes no defence, except that with
arms folded he looks at them with a serene
pity as unworthy of his regard,

Why, maiden, do they not tear him limb
from limb ? '

Because he is beloved of his God

Another question, about to follow, is
stopped by a new turn of affairs in the ring.
The beasts, diverting their gaze from Simeon,
wheel round on the Numidiann, and, making a
desperate spring at him, give him bare time to
escape. One of them is indeed successful in
gripping and tearing off the head of the bear
and a piece of the skin which covers his body,
and finding it eatable, commences to devour it.
The three others follow him in quick pursuit,
but, entirely master of the situation, the
Numidiann, anxious to be the sole victor, outruns
them, literally plays with them, leaps over
them, and, finally, in turn chases them. By a

dexterous hurl of this club he levels one to the
ground as they are flying before hin ; he picks
up his weapon, and, dismissing this enemy,
takes the other two at leisure. They are the
weakest of the group, and have been famished
too long to hold their strength ; they crawl in
fear, and in tender mercy are destroyed with
a single blow.

'Five out of six gone,' reckons Severus
and the rest, who believe that Simeon will
be the last victim.

It promises so. Before the Numidiann and
his club there remain but two foes : the wolf
still engaged on the head of the bear, which
furnishes a wonderful meal, and the beautiful
youth, armed, ready, and matchless in skill,
courage, and endurance-there
is now a general cry : ' The beasts
no more. The men ! the men ! the men ! '

The Numidiann heated with his exertions,
and wilder than ever in his appearance, is
ready for the work ; he will clear the w^j
for his final contest by killing that last and
feasting wolf, feasting under the very eyes of
Hadrian.

Stealthily and rapidly he advances to the

greedy brute, too intent on its meal to heed its
danger. The club swings nearly to the ground
over the back of its master, in order that he may
give with more effect the full and shivering
blow ; when, as if overbalanced by the weight
of his weapon, with a wild and unearthly
shriek he falls back upon it, and from head
to foot writhes in convulsive struggles. The
veins of his neck grow turgid ; his face grows
dark ; he gasps for air ; he foams at his
mouth ; his eyeballs roll wildly until the white
part is alone visible ; and he utters sounds and
gurgles which no one understands.

With a swift movement the Emperor and
the vast multitude rise to their feet, more
terror-stricken by this sight than by all they
have seen before, though it had been twenty
times intensified.

Terror of the supernatural takes the place
of the excitement of a natural scene to them
far more fearful.

The Emperor's prejudged is correct.

The monster man is faulty ; he is possessed
of a demon.

The wolf that has devoured the half meal
it so fortunately won is quick to perceive

VOL. I. F

another meal at hand. In an instant it had
torn open the breast of the Numidiann but for
an interposition.

The hand of Simeon grasps the creature
by the neck, and holds it like a tamed or
cowed dog trying to escape and fly whither
it may.

And now a new wonder !

Huldah, from resting on her knees surveying
the scene at the feet of Hadrian, rises
majestically and proceeds to the help of the
possessed man.

The wolf-trainers at a sign from her remove
the cage which forms the barrier, that she
may enter the arena.

To the side of the possessed man she glides
like one inspired. She bends over him. She
raises her hands to heaven and speaks !

Numerous as is the throng, they all hear
the sound of her voice. Saserna were not
better heard.

More marvellous still, they all believe that
they understand her command : —

I charge thee, thou foul spirit, come out
of the man and go thy way ! '

< The wolf I the wolf! the wolf! See ! see !
see! The wolf! the wolf!'

The foul spirit has entered the wolf. See !
see ! the beast, loosed by Simeon, flies, yelling,
across the arena, and leaps the iron fence.

Crash ! It has leaped headlong into the pit
and is dead as a stone.

Meanwhile the fallen man, the possessed,
raises himself from the earth on to his knees
before Huldah. With reverent, plaintive,
scared expression he bends beneath her beatific
glance, in mingled sense of love, gratitude,
humility, and fear. He seizes the hem
of her toga, raises it to his lips and kisses it.
He would worship her did she not forbid.

'Not to me, not to me, but to Him in
whose name thou art saved from the evil one,
be all thy thankfulness and all the glory.'

Strange, strange, oh wondrous strange ! he
knows the language in which she addresses
him. It is like his native tongue!

Dashing his massive club away with his
foot and taking her extended hand in his own,
he permits her to bring him like a child into

the presence of Caesar. At a sign from her
he does humble homage to the mighty leader
of the mighty legions, and then, in obedience
to an impatient wave of the hand from the
Emperor, that he must be instantly removed
as a sickening sight, with his head bent on
his breast, he suffers himself to be led away
by his master Milo along the path by which
he entered the theatre.

And the crowd, following him with its
thousand eyes, melts, for a moment, into
universal sympathy, and heaves its breast with
his. So inscrutably subtle is the influence of
sympathetic imitation on the human heart.

Of all the spectators of this singular and
miraculous scene none are so impressed as
Hadrian and Severus. By some secret spring
operating on their more refined natures they
change in expression : Severus the cold is
flushed with red ; Hadrian the flushed is
awed and even pale. Is this woman, who
casts herself again at the Emperor's feet, a
goddess? Does she know every imperial
secret thought, word, act ? Why not ? She
can cast out a demon ! What more marvellous
gift? To whom does such a divine

being belong, if not to the master of the
world ?

There is a cloud on the face of Severus
no doubt, but what of that ? Who is Julius
Severus when Hadrian wills and fates decree ?

Saserna breaks the spell.

What is the will of the Emperor towards
Simeon the Jew ? '

Forward ! ' screams the crowd to Simeon.
Do homage to Caesar.'

He is brought to the very foot of the
throne, and still they cry :

Do homage to Caesar ! '

Simeon heeds no word, no request, no
prayer, no command.

He faces fear erect, bold, defiant ; and
as one greater than he !

CHAPTEE YI.

A LIVING TORCH.

Emperor and vice-emperor look on the handsome
obstinate youth before them with equally
strong but widely different sentiments. The
Emperor holds him in some kind of admiration
and even awe, tempered with a desire to
befriend him.

The least submission, and he were the
chosen of the chosen of Hadrian.

Severus, keen-sighted, almost guesses the
truth. He too has his admiration, but it is
admiration mingled with hate approaching to
ferocity. Had he supreme command still, nota
chance of escape would be open to the
already, in his mind, condemned youth.

'Dost thou remember Trajan, noble
Severus ? ' Hadrian asks.

Oh well, great Prince. Well

*In his youth?*

^ In his second youth, not his first.'

Thickest thou that Simeon resembles him ? '

The resemblance extends to pain now
that it is suggested.'

I remember bringing to Trajan a dispatch
from the Senate, and that standing in that posture
he was the same though an older man. I
remember him as a fellow villager of Italia,
when I, as a boy, saw him as a youth come
to the home of his father where I was at
play. Then he was actually the same. Can
the dead rise, Severus ? '

I see the Likeness, Prince : but the people
wait ! '

'Wert thou ever at the Temple of Daphne?
Didst thou ever dip a leaf there, into the
fountain of fate ? '

Never, my lord.'

Didst thou never see the Syrian priestess
who ministered in the temple there that was
filled with the god ? '

Never.'

Then hast thou missed a face of beauty
and figure of divineness, such as mine eyes
have not fallen on since until this hour.'

And, rapt in a reverie which seemed to

him an age, the Emperor is lost to all around
except to the youth who stands still so boldly
at the foot of his throne.

The murmuring noise of the crowd wakes
him from his trance and rouses him to speech.

If he will not bend to us test him once
more by an offering to the gods, to Apollo
the Lord of the Sun and Earth.'

The order is forthwith sent out. The priests
of Apollo bring a pedestal bearing on each
of its sides the image of the Sun and enclosing
the mystical emblem to indicate existence or
being. They place the pedestal in front of
the Emperor. They lay the fuel on the top
of the pedestal : they bring the sacred torch
and light the fire.

Then they lead the youth Simeon to the side
of the pedestal furthest from the throne : they
place him with his face to the throne : they
bring a small square box containing incense :
they open the box, and without violence or
wrath bid him take one little pinch and
throw it on the fire.

But not a muscle of his rigid frame moves.

The aged officiating priest is moved to
tears as the words escape him : —

The god. my son, whose homage we invoke
gives thee light, and heat, and life. At his
command the seasons take their course, and
night and day are ordained. In his absence
thou wert not, nor even he our divine Emperor
who longs to save thee.'

Not a muscle of the rigid frame moves.

By the remembrance of thy father, of the
mother that bore thee, of her who may love
thee, of thy country, thy people, thyself, obey
the command and do homage to the god of
gods.'

Not a muscle moves the rigid limbs ; but
the lips declare in ringing voice : —

'In vain, in vain, I will worship no
graven image.'

Obstinate miscreant ! ' screams YibuUius.

'Brave youth! ' pronounces Fabius.

Faithful to death,' whispers Aaron of the
Altar. ' Would to God I could die for thee,
oh Simeon, son of my people.'

It is impossible to do more in the way of
persuasion ; it is impossible now for Hadrian
to show mercy.

He consults with Severus, and Saserna is
then bidden to take the will of the people.

C^sar demands the will of the people.
Is it the will of the people that Simeon the
Jew shall be set free ? '

The answer is taken by a movement of
the thumbs. If the thumbs of a majority of
voters are turned up to the sky, Simeon is
free. If they are turned down, his fate is
sealed for further sport or torture.

The masses rise, and with one simultaneous
movement extend their open hands and direct
their thumbs to the earth.

Another consultation between Hadrian and
Severus ; another message through Saserna.

Caesar demands the will of the people for
the sport they desire.'

Many voices are heard, but the one that
prevails carries the day.

The torch, the torch, the having torch.'

A blast of trumpet proclaims for the first
time the Emperor's will that the general wish
shall be obeyed. What else can he do ?

Let the choicest of Koman soldiers ; let
Fidelis himself disobey an imperial command
and who can save him. Hadrian is two men.

He is man of man, and man of empire. He
is the heart of Eome. Stop his beat and the
empire may die.

Towards this youth Simeon his natural
heart turns while his imperial heart trembles.
Intensely impressed at every moment of his
life by the sense of the supernatural, he knows
not how to act. He is challenged on his very
throne, in the face of his army, by a power that
sees and reasons. He is moved and challenged
by another power hidden in the souls of a
stripling boy and an inspired woman. It is like
being compressed between the powers of light
and darkness ; between a sea of solid faces
bent on revenge and sport and two shadowy
forms, mysterious and fearful, types of the
mysterious east, out of which the sun comes
forth each morning in his might, always to
be born again let man do what he will!

The voice of the people settles the question.
It always does.

Seeing the nature of the elements before
him, Hadrian knows he must act, for the
moment, the common part, let the mystery
work, in the end, what it may. He must
obey the will of the people.

The trumpet sounds a second time, and
Simeon is led to his fate. He is placed at the
gateway leading into the small arena. At the
gateway is an armed guard ready to cut him
to pieces should he attempt escape that way.

Under the eyes of Caesar he is clothed over
his own choice garments with a garment of
sackcloth saturated with bitumen ; clothed
over all his body, his legs and face alone free.

At the third signal, he is to be set on fire
from a torch lighted at the pedestal of Apollo
and is let loose into the closed ring, there to
rave and fight with the flames until he is consumed,
or until, in his ungovernable frenzy, he
leaps into the pit like the possessed wolf.

The Briton with the scored back makes
peace with the centurion who scored him for
the news of this ordeal of fire.

Oh these Eomans, how well they understand
sport. Wolves first and fire afterwards.
The circus knows its own again.' So he taunts
his wife, who assents, to his delight, out of fear
of him.

Hadrian and Severus once more confer.
It would seem that Severus is inclined to object,
but is obliged to yield.

Saserna explains aloud.

It is the will of Caesar that the path
from the outer edge of the pit to the eastern
gateway be kept clear, so that the living torch
may fly into the country should he escape from
the ring. And let no one pursue him.'

The command gives zest to the excitement.
It suggests an impossible thing. All the
better !

'It affords his gods a better chance of
serving him ! ' says the jesting YibuUius.

'Say rather that it gives him a better
chance of serving his God a longer time,'
observes Fabius with a respectful reverence
that contrasts strongly with the tone of his
comrade.

The month in which this tragedy is enacted
is September, and the evening is now rapidly
closing in. The light is becoming golden
red ; the clouds are golden, and the atmosphere
is filling up with an ether of golden
vapour which is as sensible as if it could
be sealed up in vases of light and kept for ever.

It is a light that can be felt ; it gives to everything
it touches its own hue ; it reaches the
mind as a familiar friend, and fills it with its
own magnetic tone. It is the light of light for
the solemn act about to follow, such a light asa
poor player, could he invent it, would cast
upon his little stage, to colour all, according
to his sense, with the tragic, the majestic,
the sublime. By it, the earth, the trees, the
vast assembly of men and women, the chariots
and horses, the arms, the standards, the
distant hills, the firmament, are made uniform
in colour, and equally beautiful, every defect
concealed in the enlisting glow. Even Simeon
made really hideous, in other fight by the
bituminous garb in which he is invested, is
still a handsome statue, a pillar of rough
gold with the face of a god.

Will no one step forth to ask for his
life?

Will not Fidelis of a hundred years step
forth, and in the name of his own faithful
services, but a few hours ago so loudly acclaimed,
ask one favour of his lord and master,
the clement Caesar ?

Alas, such a thought is the last that would

enter his mind. Did Caesar say to him,
Fidehs, step forth and fall on thy sword,'
he would do it as readily as he would lead
out his hundred men to battle.

In the Eoman army age does but crystallise
obedience.

Will not the woman who has wrought the
miracle interpose ?

On her the two men, before whom she
is reclining, cast their favours. Will she not
speak ?

She speaks not a word of that kind, but
she rises, and picking up her cymbals marches
to the side of the condemned man as if preparing
to move in triumph with him.

With her cymbals beating time to her
voice she sings to him some songs he knows,
and to which all they of his race who hear
them respond in silent sympathy. The rest
merely wonder and listen : they know not the
sweet strains nor the assuring words.

The first stanzas are solemn and sorrowful
:—

A people robbed, a people robbed and spoiled !
They are for a prey, and none delivered : for a spoil,
and none saith, Restore.'

The next are of hope and trust : —

Therefore will I look unto the Lord,
I will wait for the God of my salvation.

Rejoice not over me, oh my enemy,
When I fall I shall rise.'

Quickly the strain changes into one of joy
and exultation : —

Thus saith the Lord :
Fear not, for I have redeemed thee,
I have called thee by my name, thou art mine.
When thou passes through the waters I will be with thee
And through the rivers they shall not overflow thee,
When thou walked through the fire thou shalt not be
burned.

Fear not, oh Jacob my servant,
And thou Jeshurun whom I have chosen.
Fear ye not, neither be afraid.

I am the Lord, your Holy one, the creator of Israel, your
King !

Arise, shine, for thy light is come.
And the glory of the Lord is upon thee,
And the Gentiles shall come to thy light
And kings to the brightness of thy rising :
Fear ye not, neither be afraid.'

Another blast of the trumpet peals forth
and forms a magical ending to the song. The
victim is led out to the gateway of the ring.

The torch brought from the altar of the
god is applied to the skirts of the bituminous
garment, and with a bound the living pillar of
fire crosses the arena like a lightning flash ;
he is seen in the air ; he has leapt the palisade
and pit at a bound ; he is on the pathway towards
the open pass ; he is through the pass
itself and, blazing furiously, is into the valley
beyond.

Severus in his rage all but forgets the presence
of his Prince. He is about to give an
order for pursuit, remembers his place, craves
pardon, and, baffled in his design for the moment,
falls into silent thought of what shall
next be done. The people are maddened with
enthusiasm. They are disappointed and yet
delighted. A second miracle has been worked
for their admiration. Some of them run to
the spot to look at the distance the living fire
has leaped. Others crowd on the bank of the
theatre, and strain their eyes to see the torch
still living and flying with the wind.

It descends the steep valley, crosses it, and
with dazzling brightness ascends on the other
side. It started a pillar of living fire : it
narrows into an erect fine of fire thinner and

VOL. I. G

thinner each moment until it is a mere streak
of flame : it becomes a radiant gem, made
more brilliant by the deepening darkness : still
smaller in size, it rises high up on the opposite
ascent it is climbing, until it is a mere speck
of light : it flickers, fades, and vanishes.

The living torch, out of sight, is instantly
out of the mind of that vast assembly. A
man has gone forth from it, a man like
themselves, of flesh and blood the same ; of
sensibilities the same ; of mind and soul the
same. He has gone forth a sheet of fire !
Does no one ask his fate ? Does anyone ask
the fate of the deer that over the mountain-side
carries the arrow of the archer in its
vitals ? Does any one ask what is the fate of
a boar that, with maimed limbs from the teeth
of the hounds, has crept into a shelter of wood
and brake where it cannot be further pursued ?
Nonsense !

The gods sent the wretch, man or beast,
for sport, what else ? Some day some one,
climbing the opposite ascent which the living
torch has climbed, may find the charred
remnants of the victim, and kick them over
as those of him who made the wonderful leap.

Good for the future. For the present, that
which the crowd wants is more sport, a new
pleasure.

Severus has foreseen this desire, and, with
clever foretaste, has provided for it. To the
sound of many trumpets, and the huzzahs of
many voices, the Emperor and he have retired
in grand procession to the camp, leaving
behind them a proclamation of the Emperor's
pleasure that the camp shall be illuminated
and festivity be the order of the night.

Even to midnight. So ran the proclamation.


Huzza ! Three times three. Huzza !
Huzza ! Huzza !



CHAPTER yil.

MIRTH AND MYSTERY.

The Eoman soldier knows his duties so well
he always does the same thing in the same
way, and in the best manner.

Whether the order from the superior in
command be to march, to rest, to fight, to
feast, it is carried out instantly. Every man
is ready at every moment.

The order for the festival by night is carried
out in this spirit, and the change which
takes place in the camp is the work almost of
magic art. Before Hadrian and Severus have
been an hour in their quarters, a thousand
lamps are mounted on stakes or staves, which
every soldier has in store, and are blazing
away ail over the camp and its surroundings.
Other lamps are obtained, and laid on the
ground of the ramparts in holes rapidly cut

to admit the globe of oi], and very soon all the
raised structure of the camp can be seen for
miles around like a vast mound of fire.

To crown the whole the Pharos or fire-tower
in the south-eastern angle of the
square is lighted with an enormous pile of
dry fuel. The flames of this pile ascend thirty
feet above the tower, and light up the whole
encampment like a newly risen sun.

Nor is the circus forgotten. It too is
soon illuminated, and prepared for dances,
feats of strength, and various games in which
the ball plays a conspicuous part.

The news of the great festivities flies far
and wide the country round, for such a fire
was never seen before. Some of the simple
country folk think the camp is on fire by
accident, but all, like moths, are drawn toit,
the knowing ones bringing whatever they
possess from which they can earn a fair profit
by sale or barter or skilful sport.

Equally rapid are the movements of those
who are to be the providers of the temporary
feast. The slaves are driven about in all directions,
the stores are unpacked, and the kitchen
furnaces are hard at work. The men and

women who hang about the camp are allowed
to open their stalls for the sale of wine and oil
and bread. The makers of mirth, the songsters,
the reciters, the mimetic players, the dancers,
the buffoons turn out in their varied costumes.
The musicians gather together in groups, and
tune their stringed instruments for music.
Outside the tents, and along the great highways
and streets of the camp, the tables and reclining
seats or couches are set out, and from the
grand centre the military bands, if they maybe
so called, send forth their stimulating
strains of melody.

Within two short hours the whole of the
populace of this Koman centre of life, usually
so staid, mechanical, and solemn, is one vast
orgie, controlled easily if troublesome, but indue
bounds left to itself to do and work its
own will and pleasure.

It is indeed a picturesque and curious scene
in which we now take part.

For sixty miles around the Pharos sends
forth its unlike rays, and signals from it fly
to tell to neighbouring camps the special
honour that belongs to ours.

The main street of our camp, which divides

the tents or huts of the common soldiers from
the quarters of the officers, is specially attractive,
not only for its feasting, but for its transformation
into quite a fairy-land. The forum
in the centre of this street, in which, when
required, the Praetor sits in judgment, is
turned into a theatre, from the stage of which
those who are gifted with eloquence of speech
or song are called forth, imperatively, to display
their powers for the common merriment.
Some are called to deliver verses and legends
from the great Eoman writers or poets ; some,
natives of Britain, are brought out to dance ;
some, conjurers, are made to conjure and cast
fortunes ; some, athletes, are made to perform
feats of strength or agility.

As the night advances, and the stock of
amusements around the grand centre begins
rather to flag, there is a cry for Tinnius the
Eed beard. What he is to do no one knows
or cares to enquire, for he is a favourite who
always does something new and pleasing, and
at all costs he, therefore, must be had and
heard.

The cry is loud for Tinnius Eufus the Eed-
beard, and when, very much worried by his

virago, who sticks to him like a limpet, he
makes his way through the crowd to gain the
tribune, the cheering, which extends from one
end of the camp to the other, tells the Emperor
and Severity, as they talk together after the
Emperor has partaken alone of his simple
evening meal, a crust of bread with fruit, a
few sweet herbs, and a flask of vinegar wine,
that something specially entertaining is about
to occur.

What,' asks the Emperor of an attendant,
'what does this ringing uproar mean ? '

The attendant, a bashful youth, answers :
Tinnius Eufus, Prince, the Eed beard, is
about to sing from the Forum.'

For a moment all is quiet to the ears of
the distinguished rulers, but soon, ten times
louder than ever, the applause is resumed.

Tinnius the Need-beard, great Prince, is
called upon to sing again.'

Tinnius, in short, has got an enthusiastic
and obstinate encore, an encore so enthusiastic
and so obstinate it moves the Emperor himself
to go and share with the audience in the
fun which has been elicited.

The thing is easily done : that plain soldier

may go, under the artificial light, wherever he
lists and not be known. Severus must remain,
Hadrian may go.

W-ending his way through the crowd quite
unrecognised, Hadrian soon attains what
he wants — a quiet place near the Forum
where he can see and not be conspicuously
seen.

The great Tinnius is still receiving the
plaudits of his admirers. The great man
bows to his admirers, just as great men always
bow. The admirers renew the cheer, and
then call silence for the great man.

Tinnius advances in correct fashion to face
his audience. Clothed in mock imperial robes,
he stands under a little bower of lamps ; he
draws from his bosom a scroll at which he
glances furtively. Then he clears his throat,
and, taking his key from the twang of a lute,
he sings out again, in a voice which supplies in
power whatever it wants in sweetness, the song
that has been so loudly encored. It is a song
intended for the occasion, an impromptu very
difficult to be understood by the native part
of the audience, but to the Eoman part, dry
and spry and sly.

The Song of Tinnius Rufus the Red-beard.

Ecce Imperator !

Jupiter from heaven glancing
Fix'd his godlike eyes on earth.
Soldiers singing, maidens dancing
Filled him full of jealous mirth.
Maidens dancing, soldiers singing
Not of him the great creator,
But in aptest chorus ringing,

Ecce Imperator !

All the gods unto him calling,
See,' he cried, ' yon mortal, see !
Thousand slaves around him falling
Worship him instead of me.
Next with rebel voice appalling
They will name him our dictator.
We must stop their wanton brawling,
Ecce Imperator 1

Hercules ! with club descending.
Dash him from his mocking throne.
Mercury ! thy bright bow bending,
Send a shaft through flesh and bone.
Aesculapius ! poisons blending.
Be our arch administrator,
Stop their wretched throats from rending,
Ecce Imperator ! '

Quick as thought the gods, obeying
Their august and mighty lord,
Hastened to prepare for slaying
Him the mortal hosts adored.

But the goddesses, arraying
All their forces for the traitor,
Echoed what the men were saying,
Ecce Imperator !

Vanquished Jove to Caesar bowing
Stands a mark for gods and men.
Day and night for ever showing
Powers of gods and men are vain,
With the goddesses bestowing
On their choice their imprimatur ;
Name and fame and love endowing :
Ecce Imperator !

Romans ! to your Tinnius bringing
All your love and loyalty.
While the goddesses are flinging
Him their smiles and kisses sly ;
Let your powerful voices ringing
Tell the gods that no one greater,
Could be found to hear you singing,
Ecce Imperator !

The effect of the refrain of this song
throughout the camp is like a whirlwind.
Tinnius sang the song, but Saserna, the
editor,' or master of ceremonies, wrote it,
and, being a true lover of the anonymous, is
not a little proud of his performance. There
is a pride in the anonymous greater often than
in the anonymous, and Saserna feels it keenly.
Very shrewdly, he has placed himself not many

yards from the quarters of Hadrian, and, as
his voice of thunder takes up the refrain, the
whole camp follows his lead so completely that
it were dangerous for any one to be silent.

The situation held, at the moment, by the
Emperor, proud as it may seem to be, is not
without its embarrassments ; for he, ranking
as a common soldier, dare do no more nor less
than join in voice loyally with the rest.

An Emperor may be troubled when he
hears himself made, by the tongue of the joker,
a mark for public comment ; and as the droll
Tinnius rolled out and emphasised, with gestures
that cannot be written down, the allusions
to the goddesses, a thought pricks the imperial
mind that perhaps a satire deep and sore, for
which, as we may see later on, there is some
loose foundation, is conveyed. But when the
merry songster, in the final verse, assumes all
the glory to himself, and, with infinite humour
of manner and assumption of imperial dignity,
claims to himself the smiles and kisses of the
goddesses, and the adoration of the people, the
perfect innocency of any insult withdraws the
suspicion, and sends the Imperator back to his
tent one of the chief laughers of the whole

laughing encampment ; while the Need-beard,
released from his temporary dignity, becomes
the hero of the hour, and ' Ecce Imperator '
the facile password to all good fellowship.

How many flagons of Eoman wine and of
British mead are drunken to-night to ' Ecce
Imperator,' it would be as hard as sad to tell ;
for all except the Emperor are slaves to wine
at festive times. He, with the stern simplicity
of a Stoic, returns to his tent unattended.
Severus has prudently retired to
his own quarters, duties, or pleasures, and the
Emperor is left all alone according to his
imperial will.

A plainer tent than the imperial tent no
travelling officer or soldier in the whole army
could possess. In five minutes of time it can
be struck or set in full form ready for his
use and occupation. When he is out of it,
inspecting troops, making surveys, delivering
judgments, presiding over councils, or planning
fortifications — and he would often take part
in all these things in the course of a single
day — the soldiers get sly peeps, at all risks,
into this marvellous tent. To be caught
within it might, under strict rule, mean condign

punishment, but no one ever suffers for
his curiosity. In point of fact, Hadrian rather
enjoys the inquisitiveness, and allows it tacitly
to work out his own ends. There is nothing
in the tent, to conceal, and the simplicity of
it is an example of order and power. If he,
the master of all the legions, can be satisfied
with so simple an apartment, by what right
can an idle patrician claim more of luxury,
and of what have the common soldiers to complain
?

In an empire of soldiers no example were
wiser or stronger. The tent itself is of the
usual round and pointed form ; but at each
side there runs off from it a little pavilion,
holding a bed or couch raised but a foot or so
from the earth. In the centre of the tent is
a small table with a reclining couch aside it.
Upon the table is a book, a Eoman translation
of the works of the learned Jew, Josephus, who
had fought and written during the wars of his
people under Vespasian and Titus, an hourglass,
and a lighted candle. The candle is
peculiar. It indicates the time from hour to
hour. It is made of wax, coloured in sections,
each section marked with a Eoman numeral.

and each having the capacity of burning one
hour, a primitive silent candle-clock, which
always burns and records time in that tent
when the sun has gone to rest. By this
primitive time-piece, invented by the Emperor
himself, he knows that it is within an hour of
midnight, an hour later than usual for bed.

His young attendant has by his order
joined the sports, so he waits on himself.

He takes off his accoutrements, lays his
sword on the table, passes into his sleeping
pavilion, returns invested in a warm purple
robe or dressing-gown, his sole garment of
imperial quality, sits down on the couch, and,
bringing the candle near to him, commences
listlessly to read the book before him.

It is in vain ! He cannot read, he cannot
slp-ep according to his usual custom, for he is
vexed, perplexed, and anxious. He is vexed
that one of his mandates has not been obeyed.
He told Severus that he wished to converse
with the remarkable stranger and child whom
he had discovered in the crowd at the time
of the combat, and he has learned, at his
frugal supper, that the two have mysteriously
disappeared, just before the scene of the flying

torch, and can nowhere be found. No one
saw these illustrious strangers come, no one
saw them depart. They had neither eaten,
drunken, nor spoken with living soul. Their
costume alone had suggested to Severus that
they had come from the western Isle of Peace
and Beauty. Musing on this circumstance,
the mind of the Emperor wanders to that stiffened
youth, who, as if he were a king over
death himself, had refused, him, Hadrian, the
ruler of all the world, the meanest reverence.

Never before has mortal man dared to
treat the Caesar in such a manner.

The insult stings ; but this diversion of his
thoughts subsides in the remembrance of the
maiden of magic and grace, who reclined at
his feet, who cast out the evil spirit from that
monster of a man, and who sang the strange
songs to the youth about to die.

Of these divinely endowed creatures he
has heard, and doubts not they exist. His mind
goes back once more to the sacred Temple
where there was such a woman whom the
priests of the temple retained as a Syrian or
Jewish prophetess, and whom Trajan loved
and perhaps bore away.

Gifts like these are, like features, inherited.
Could this woman be her child ?

No, her face is neither the face of Trajan
nor of the Jewess : were it the face of that
rebellious youth the suspicion would be true,
or might be true, at least. Straining to recall
many long-forgotten details he returns, in
thought, to the man and the child, in their
mantles of emerald green. They have no real
voice, and yet they seem to say to him : ' Hold
that woman in thy safe keeping ; let her never
depart from thy power, for she is thy incarnate,
thy good spirit.'

It was one of those brief dehriums in which
recent events wake up some of the drowsy
senses to future life and action. But these
deliriums are potent ministries. They have
made more real history than all the hosts
of real men who ever took the field. They
are an ordination of supreme nature herself
directing events. They are the soul of the
supernatural, and yet are the commonest
humanity. They have given birth to faiths,
religions, wars, crusades, revolutions, empires.


And now once more they play their part.

VOL. I. H

The first man of Eome, rising up to his full
intelligence from one of these deliriums,
accepts the manifestation, and declaring ' It
shall be done,' sinks on his couch into deep
and long repose.

Caesar sleeps ! A goddess in the form of
a god rises amongst men !

CHAPTER Yell.

LAID LOW WITH WINE.

Whilst the master of the legions takes his
repose the camp is still awake. There is yet
plenty of time left for continuance of the
revelry, and, although the native part of the
population, and they who live outside the camp,
are fast dissolving, so as to reach their various
homes, the Eoman soldiers remain in festivity.
They have ceased to sing and to dance, but
they are little less merry, for they recline
around the festive tables either within or at the
doors of their tents or huts, tell stories of the
past, discuss current topics, praise women and
wine, and laugh and joke as Eoman soldiers
off duty always do.

But they are ready at a moment's call for
duty when that is required.

They always come when I call them, and
sometimes they come when I don't call them.'

H 2

That was the slow and only joke of
Fidelis, the centurion of a hundred years ; a
joke calculated to become lasting as time.

Together with the soldiers, the officers,
from the centurions upwards, have also their
enjoyments. In their various quarters they
form their little coteries, and, marching out at
various intervals to witness the outside amusements,
return to their wine and their private
merriment.

Of the groups of officers and friends which
lend themselves to the general and private
mirth one is of special interest to us.

It is in the quarters of Tinnius Eufus. It
is made up of that worthy himself, of the two
new arrivals, Fabius and Tibullus, and of
Saserna, ' the editor,' as he is called, of the
ceremonies, and the director of the Mappa at
the sport that has been carried out during the
previous day.

These men were all old companions in
Eome, as schoolfellows in their young days,
and although they were of somewhat different
rank, station and fortune, they continue
attached friends, and rejoice much at meeting
together once again.

Fabrics is one of the choicest having representatives
of patrician Eome. In the early
and troublous times, ere yet the plebeians had
any power, the ancestors of Fabius were conspicuous
not only for their greatness but for
their Liberality. They fought for the honest
privileges of the plebs, and did much for
securing the same. They stood by the measure
which gave the lower grades their power, and
they and their descendants were beloved and
respected of all men. At the same time no
patricians were more enamoured of their own
dignity. They laboured for the people, but
they kept their own ; perhaps, if the truth
were told, their method was nothing more
than pride feeding on craft.

Our Fabius has the rich blood of his
ancestors in his veins, and his veins are overflowing.


Vibullius is patrician also, but of different
stamp. Under the first Caesar, one of his
ancestors by his skill and bravery attained
to knightly rank and was much esteemed.
Amongst other gifts he possessed that of imitation,
and in private life often amused his friends
by his perfect mimicries. The gift, unfortunately,

became known to the Dictator, who
straightway commanded him to play some
small mimetic piece publicly in his presence.
The Dictator must be obeyed, but the obedience
of the noble knight was at a sacrifice which
CiBsar himself could not restore. To play a
part as a public player was a duty too ignoble,
even under command, to be allowed to pass
amongst the patricians. In humiliation the
injured man practically left Eome and Eoman
society, and, as a favour, obtained permission
from Octavius, the second of the Caesarss and
the first Emperor, to take the name of Vibullius
for his original family name of Ambitious. His
son, who inherited great wealth, owing to the
accumulation of wealth during his father's
enforced retirement, became a man designated
as one of ' softened pleasures with penurious
failings,' and from him the race was continued
in much the same condition. Our Vibullius
is of this cast. He is courted for his wealth
more than his rank ; he is trusted because he
takes care of what he has ; and he is liked
because, whilst he enjoys himself, he diffuses
a charm of good nature, which seems reckless
but is really under perfect control, round all

with whom he mixes. He and Fabius agree,
notwithstanding their differences of mind and
nature. Fabius is learned, classical, liberal,
philosophic, proud. Tibullus is little learned,
is no classic, is an aristocrat in feeling, a tyrant
at heart in regard to the people, flippant in
mode of thought and expression, vain rather
than proud, but good-natured, like Fabius, and
very good company.

Both, as far as possible, have avoided arms
as a profession. They have got substitutes
whenever they could find them, and the find
under the magic of money has been easily conceived
and brought forth.

Saserna, the editor or master of the
ceremonies, is a cousin of Fabius by his
mother's side. His mother, with a woman's
weakness, must needs form a romantic attachment
in her early life with a Hercules named
Saserna, who played a somewhat conspicuous
part in the court of Domitian, and who was
accredited, not without favour from the people,
with having aided Comitia and Parthenon in
their successful plot against that Emperor's life,
by coming in as a gladiator to assist Stephens,
the comptroller of the household, in his fatal

attack on the hated tyrant. This Saserna,
under the reign of Trajan, rose into position
with that monarch, took the editorship of his
ceremonial affairs with great skill, and dying
at a full age left a son, our Saserna, who, possessing
many of his father's qualities, is now
editor to Julius Severus in Britain.

The last man of our group, Tinnius Eufus
Yigilius, whom we already know by sight and
name and voice, is, like Saserna, of broken
descent, but is admitted into the charmed
circle of the empire. His uncle, Vigilius Eufus,
had been the colleague of the short-lived
and gentle Emperor Nerva, the successor of
Domitian and predecessor of Trajan, and had
even opposed Nerva for the crown. Forgiven
by Nerva, Yigilius still hoped for the
succession ; but Nerva left it to Trajan, who,
promptly, sent the whole family, root and
branch, as exiles to Britain, where they worked
for their bread as best they could. Our man,
witty, ready, good-hearted, and possessed of
the rare art of writing well, has become scribe
and comptroller to Severus, and, known, byname
at least, in every British-woman camp, is
a universal favourite, a hail-fellow-well-met sort

of being, greeted everywhere, as one who, in
jest, can say and sing, safely, things which, said
or sung in jest or earnest by another, might
easily cost that other his head. He is always
called Tinnius Eufus by his friends because
of his sounding jollity, his family name of
Vigilius being now almost forgotten.

Ecce Imperator ! ' exclaims Tibullus, as
Tinnius enters his tent to rejoin his comrades
after he has delivered to the mob his now
famous song. ' Ecce Imperator ! ' bursts out
the rolling voice of Saserna. ' Thou didst thy
part, my Tinnius, like an Emperor. Had
Vigilius thy uncle been as acute as his name
made him out to be, thou his heir might have
worn the real instead of the sham purple tonight.'


Echoing on their couches, the four friends
sip their wine, and talk over the events of the
day with such absorption that the trumpet-call
at midnight for the camp to close comes
upon them with a start.

They rise to the call, and go forth to seethe
end of the eventful day.

The rapidity with which the camp is closed
is a phenomenon. Every man doing his work

always in the same way, and that way always
the best, the whole encampment at once is
transformed ; the streets are cleared ; the lamps
are extinguished, at a sign, simultaneously ;
and under the fading fire of the Pharos the
sentinels are performing their guardianship as
if no feast had ever been held.

Give me a Eoman army as a time-keeper
and I will challenge Phoebus himself to keep
better time,' observes Fabius, with true admiration
of what he has witnessed.

But hark ! What noise is there, disturbing
the dead silence which for a brief interval
prevails ?

Quickly a troop of horsemen, fifty at least,
passes by, headed by an officer of well-known
skill. The troop makes for the southern gateway,
and like a stone from a catapult is out of
the fortress.

What new freak is this P ' enquires the
hasty Tibullus.

Saserna and Tinnius may both know, but if
they do they are not ready to tell.

Saserna answers offhand as if it were, as
indeed to him it is, a trifling episode : —
* A despatch, perchance, from the Emperor

or Severus to another camp ; or a scouting
party to watch some wretched native force
that is threatening to rise.'

It matters not, the troop is gone, and the
friends, who, by their position and rank, are
privileged to continue their pleasure, resume
their places and their discourse. They resume
the subject of their meeting during the sports
of the previous day.

' I saw you both enter the popular,'
observed Saserna, ' and but for the presence
of Severus the watchful, I should have made
you some sign of recognition.'

Is Severus still the severe ? ' asks Tibullus.

unchanged and unchangeable. As stern
in the camp as when he was prefect in the
academy and we four boys were under his
dominion. Tinnius is always repeating what
you have just hinted, Tibullus, that his name
carries his nature. Does he ever slacken,
Tinnius you sly old cannibal, under that wine
of Cyprus you so freely supply him with ? '

As Hercules slackens under his club, great
editor. Wine makes Severus more severe,
until he suddenly sinks dead under it altogether,
a log of a man.' -

Does he never, when you two are alone,
speak of the past ? ' enquired Fabius. ' Our
parents were all of equal blood with his and
we with him.'

'With the side blood of the illustrious
Virgil flowing in your veins, distinguished
Fabius. But I can tell you he never speaks
except on business, in which he is as sharp asa
sword-point, as hard as an executioner.'

Will the ass know us when he meets us,
Tinnius ? ' interposed Tibullus.

The ass will not know you, for he is a
dumb ass, and a blind ass, and a deaf ass to all
except his own business, and that is Severus
himself. He, I am sure, recognised you today.
The Emperor in his place would have
sent for you, and in the presence of all the
people would have folded you in his embrace.
He, true to himself, sat like a stone and stared
like a statue. Perchance tomorrow he will
ask me what you do here, and if he thinks that
you mean to stay he will offer you some office
about his person, for he has a strange liking
to have around him those he knows and trusts.
Beyond that not a syllable.'

^ What did he to the Emperor, Saserna ? '

The same, my Fabius, as to us all, his
duty, his bare duty. Yet I noticed that
Hadrian touched him once in a vital point,
though it was by a mere arrow shot at a venture.'


About what ? ' all the friends eagerly wish
to know.

The dark maiden who laid herself like a
beautiful sleuthhound at Hadrian's feet.'

The sorceress who went round with old
hundred years, and cast out the demon, and
sang the gibberish to the boy Simeon as he
started for the lower gods,' put in Tinnius.
But my friends you have no wine,' and so
saying he refilled their cups that they might
listen, with their greedy ears, more keenly to
Saserna for the vital point that had been
touched in Severus the severe.

It caught my ear. The Emperor asked
him who the maiden was, and after getting
his reply twitted him with being in love. And
mark you, my brothers, for once and for the
only time in my life I saw Severus wince.'

'Antony and Cleopatra re-enacted,' exclaims
Tinnius. ' We will put it into a play,
most potent editor, with your assistance. He

shall be Antony, the beautiful sorceress shall
be Cleopatra. By Minerva 'twill be the root
of a new poem.'

And why not ? ' suggests Fabius. ' Why
not, you excited red-beard. What is there
strange that is not familiar in love ? Every
Cleopatra has an Antony.'

Two or three,' interposed Tinnius.

Well, two or three, three or four, four or
five, if you like ; it is by the will of the gods.'

I should say the goddesses,' again interrupted
the vivacious scribe ; ' I should say by
the order of the goddesses, my noble Eoman.'

By the goddesses then, if you will ; still
there is in the fact no wonder.'

No wonder,' retorts Tinnius. ' No wonder !
Why, I tell you,' and here he struck the wine
table a blow which stung his own hand ashe
poured out his emphatic sentence, ' I tell
you I would as soon expect to see Julius
Severus lift up the curtains of this tent and
walk in here and take that empty couch as
believe that he should ever light on a
Cleopatra.'

The words are scarcely said, the wine cups
have not ceased to ring on the vibrating table

when the curtain rises and, to the blank
astonishment of them all, the face and form of
Severus is before them.

He is divested now of all robes and marks
of office. Attired in the simple evening robe
of the Eoman gentleman, erect as a pillar
and hard as marble, he stands before them ;
his features finely chiselled in every line and
more rigid than his body.

A man by nature commanding, and from
his cradle a Eoman soldier intended for command,
the form and manner and will of the
soldier is in every look and movement evolved
through generations of his kind. His ancestors
had never been of his own rank, but from
father to son they had been centurions, until
they became so by natural birthright and
claimed their own with unswerving zeal and
confidence. In the days of Julius C^sar,
Labienus, one of the family, having proved
himself an admirable shipbuilder by rapidly
reconstructing at Dola a battered squadron
that had conveyed Caesar from Gaul, was left
in Britain, with a higher command, to penetrate
far westward into the island, and conquer
along his way until he met the sea on

the western side. He did it, and the work was
done so well that superior rank was awarded
to him and Julius was added to his name.

It was, however, reserved for the man who
stands now before us to make the most notable
mark in arms and name, and to achieve a
position, viceregal in quality, as governor of
the province which his ancestor had fought
and overcome. Detailed, in the early part of
his career, to hold with two hundred men a
strong fortalice of stone while his general in
command went out with the main body of
the troops to find and vanquish a formidable
native force that had collected in Siluria, he
was ro suddenly surrounded by an overwhelming
body of the enemy that escape and defence
seemed equally impossible. Three parts out
of four of his fortress were invested, the fourth
part not immediately in danger being a lofty
hill which formed the back of his quarry.

In an hour his plan of action was matured,
and the order went forth as the night shut ofi"
the foe and checked the complete investment.
Let one hundred men cut through that hill a
tunnel of sufficient size for one man to pass ;
but conceal the escape on the opposite side.

Let the rest destroy every roof and wall within
the fortress that might afford covering or
shelter.'

By the following morning's dawn the tunnel
was complete. Then, giving orders that every
man should be ready to obey his word to
enter the tunnel and pass out of it in line, he
himself mounting the gateway of the fortress
signalled to the enemy to bring them within
call.

Assuming the role of a young and alarmed
sentinel who had been coerced into the army,
and speaking to the ambassadors in their own
language, which he had completely mastered,
he offered to admit them all at the gate while
his comrades still slept, if they would let him,
without any weapon, run, afterwards, for his
life.

The bait took ; the native force was drawn
as quickly as possible towards the gate of the
little fortress, and so soon as the assumed sentinel
had got his men ready for their exit by
the tunnel and on their way to it, he himself
throwing open the gate escaped as promised
into the rear of the enemy.

The witless host swept in slowly tli rough

VOL. I. I

the narrow gateway, to find not one lance or
sword to oppose them. In momentary triumph
they wondered what had happened. But they
only waited for their doom.

A cave ! a cave ! ' they cried, ' the Eomans
have hidden in a cave ! '

Impetuously they enter, and some of them
creep along the floor of the cave until in
darkness they try to turn back to tell that
there seems no enemy there, except darkness
and suffocating air. The check created a
panic, and a resolve of the enemy to return
to the open plain.

It was too late. The besiegers were the
besieged. By the time they had discovered
the trick that had been played on them fifty
Eoman soldiers were at the outer portal slaying
instantly every man who tried to escape
through its narrow space, while a small body
of sappers at the free end of the tunnel
closed that so strongly with earth that no
vent was there. Locked in the strongly built
prison with no means to scale its bare and
lofty walls, with no means to concentrate
more than ten men at most at the portal,
against a drilled troop on the other side, they

soon found themselves stoned from the slings
of the Eomans with such vehemence that they
were enveloped in a shower of missiles falling
from tremendous heights like massive hailstones,
from which there was no shelter, and
which wounded and killed all on whom they
fell. In the panic they closed on each other,
and soon the Eoman swordsmen boldly reentering
the gate finished the deadly work
which the slingers had commenced.

The helplessly terrified victims who remained
prayed for mercy. They prayed in
vain. Severus, who had himself slain a little
hecatomb, commanded that two only should
live, the two men with whom he had parleyed
and who had promised him his liberty
and his life, and these were led forth, not out
of any pity or care for their lives, but that
they might run and tell to their people how a
new Eoman general had risen whose skill was
equal to his cruelty and his courageous craft.

Henceforth the Eoman strategist, so cunning
and so merciless, was made to assume a
new name, which attached itself to him until
he was bound to accept it whether he liked it
or not. It suited his nature to its very core

I 2

to like and adopt the name, and from that
day Julius Labienus was known by all men as
Julius Severus.

The news of his stratagem reached Horae,
and was hailed there as a triumphant achievement.
This was good for Severus. The
news of the stratagem penetrated everywhere
through the native tribes of Britain, and that
was good for Eome. So far from bearing
enmity to the man for what he had done, the
native enemy revered his cunning and his
courage. It struck them with an admiring
fear, and made Julius Severus himself worth
a legion to the Eoman arms. The place where
his victory was won he converted into a
tumulus called ' the cave of the slain,' or
sometimes the tomb by Severus.

Upon the mind of Marcus Aurelius, who
was Emperor when this event occurred, the
victory of Severus told badly. But Trajan,
who soon afterwards succeeded, was very
differently influenced. This fighting prince
saw in Severus a soldier who knew his own
mind and carried out his own desires with the
mercilessness of fate, a man of men for subduing
and ruhncT savage hordes. So, under

Trajan, Severus found ample scope for his skill
and food for his ambition. Kept in command
of one of the most remote of the Eoman
possessions, he was safe from disturbing the
ruling power at home ; while in his own
sphere he was, in every practical sense, an
Emperor. He knew his place, kept it, and
made it respected and feared by the exercise
of the severest will blended with the severest
justice.

Until civilisation breeds and nourishes
philanthropy as the Hght of the world, such
men as Julius Severus always rule best, and
on the whole, perhaps, most humanely. They
rule through perfect fear, and, until perfect love
casteth out fear, they will never be deposed.

We see this man now before us more
closely than when he sat in the seat of state
of the Circus Britannic us. He is forty years
old. He is at this moment effecting a new
and startling strategy, and we who have the
privilege to know his secret may tell it. He
comes ostensibly to greet in an informal way
his two old schoolfellows, whom he has
detected as fresh from Eome. He comes
actually to hear from them in their accidental

gossiping the state of Eome and the position
(3f Hadrian in the minds of the Roman people.
Severus is in his prime as a soldier ; Hadrian
somewhat past his prime, is not a soldier.
Is the empire falling to pieces, disintegrating,
under a more benign but less conquering
power than existed during Trajan's brief but
glorious rule ?

In plain thoughts, has JuHus Severus any-chance
for the imperial purple ?

A Eoman less severe than he, though
holding higher dignity, on entering into the
company of two old friends whom he has not
seen for many years, would greet them with the
kiss of friendship, would enquire after their
health, their home, their family, their friends.

With Severus no such kindly ceremony is
either expected or offered.

In the quarters of every superior person
in the Eoman camp there is provided a chair
or couch of state, called emphatically the
empty couch.' It is reserved exclusively for
the father of the people, for him who governs,
just as in a private house the couch or seat
of the father of the house is retained for him
alone.

In these quarters of Tinnius Eufus the
comptroller the seat of honour is of course
there, and though it has never been filled it is
always brought forth. Symbolically the sire
or ruler is always at the feast, be it ever so
rich, ever so homely.

To that seat with all the dignity of his
office Severus moves, and takes it without a
word ; the head and master of the schoolboy
group once more.

The wine continues to pass, and gradually
amongst the old friends a warm but less
animated conversation ensues, to which
Severus listens, but in which, except by a nod
or a word or two like Yes and No, he takes
no part. But, in one respect he more than
joins the rest.

The wine with which the Liberal comptroller
freely supplies him suits his palate, and
of it he drinks with a kind of savage reed,
until at length, after a larger draught than
ordinary, his hard features become imbecile,
his head drops on his chest, and he falls, as
the comptroller said, like Hercules on his club,
a helpless log of human flesh and bone.

He is off,' observes Tinnius, ' so dead ois

that we might if we liked put him through
the fire and into his urn, and he be none the
wiser.'

It was our conversation about the Jewish
sorceress which made him expedite this
quotidian fit by that copious finishing draught
remarks Saserna.

And therewith follows a consultation as to
what is to be done.

We must bear him gently and quietly to
his quarters,' explains Tinnius. 'In eight
hours he will be the same Severus as he was
in the tribune, with a little more of the demon
mocking him into severity.'

Practised hands in all works connected
with the camp, the friends, in a few moments,
fit up an ambulance or litter from the spears
which stand around. They lash the spears
together into the litter, cover it with the skin
of a leopard which lies over the back of one
of the couches, then folding the body of the
vice-emperor in the folds, with a cushion for his
head, Fabius and Tibullus hoist him on their
shoulders, and following Tinnius and followed
by Saserna move rapidly and noiselessly
towards their destination.

By this time all the camp is at rest except
the sentinels, who keep up their unwearied
watch, and who are doubly strong at the
quarters where slaves and foreigners reside.

The stars alone give light, the winds alone
give motion.

The bearers of Severus traverse almost the
entire length of the central street of the camp.
They pass the silent tent of the Emperor,
around which the sentinels stand, like statues,
in absolute rest. They pass the tent of the
physician of the Emperor, the learned Asclepias
Gryphons, usually called Gryphon.
They pass the newly erected and singular
tents of the various scholars, engineers, and
mechanics, who invariably accompany the
Emperor wherever he goes, and in whose
discourse he finds his chief delight.

As they approach the quarters of Severus,
which lie outside the encampment, in more
permanent structure than any in the rest of
the camp — a Eoman villa in point of fact —
they observe in one tent a single light and
some sign of movement within. It is the only
tent that has given the faintest indication of
the Hfe that nestles in its walls.

It is the tent of Fidelis the centurion of a
hundred years.

Fabius and YibuUius, anxious to complete
their task, step after Tinnius rapidly. Saserna
follows, but having less cause for hurry waits
for a moment. His curiosity, always keen, is
awakened by the light and the movement in
the old man's quarters, and as he approaches
them he draws himself near to the entrance
wondering what is going on within.

As he waits the canvas doors of the tent
open, and there steps quietly out into the night
a stranger whom, from his garb, a long flowing
dark robe, he, with some hesitation, at
last decides to be the Achates or Emperor's
physician, the renowned Gryphon.

Saluting so great a person with deep
reverence, the editor enquires, with becoming
respect, whether anything has befallen Fides
that has called for the skill of the physician.

I came,' replies Tryphon, ' as one searching
for all knowledge of hidden things. I
came to the tent of Fidelis the centurion, to,
see with my own eyes, to listen with my own
ears, and to touch with my own hands, one
who has lived ,a hundred years. I wished tO;

feel the pulses of so strange a man ; but above
all I desired to learn from his lips by what
art he had attained to such an enduring life.'

'A noble research, most learned Tryphon,
if I may venture to call thee, so much my
senior, by thy familiar name.'

'tis the name I most love, my son,'
responds the Achates, ' for 'tis the name my
good parents left me, and 'twas their great
wealth. But speaking of this task of mine
thou dost overrate its worth. The physician
has two duties ever on his hands : the one to
the sick man who is under his care, the other
to the world at large over which also his skill
ranges. It is his duty, as the wisest man
of my people teaches, to seek and know all
things that happen under the sun : this sore
travail hath God given to the sons of men
to be exercised therewith.'

A noble duty nobly expounded, Tryphon.
No wonder is it that thy imperial master
keeps thee as the apple of his eye ; but pray
tell me of this old centurion, what thickest
thou of him? '

A wonderful remnant of a human soul
and body, Saserna, for thy voice carries thy

name ; a wonderful remnant of a human soul
in human form, of whom let me speak to thee
in parable. Dost thou remember near to Eome
a lofty pedestal at the foot of the Aventine
hills?'

I remember it well ; it was raised by our
great fathers of the state to the goddess of
health, Salus, and it stood there for ages
defying time.'

It did, but now knowest thou its fate ? '

Not more than I have told you, illustrious
healer ! '

Then I will tell you more. One morning,
a month or so ere we left Eome for this
remote island, that statue stood in all its
apparent strength and in all its beauty. It
was the day of the festival dedicated to the
goddess, and in honour of the event a smart
and handsome youth was chosen to climb the
statue and place a garland on her brow. A
hundred times before the same ceremony
had been performed ; again the rite was fully
carried out, and again at night the sun cast
his parting rays on the garlanded Salus.
But in the night there rose a storm, and
when the sun threw his glory once more on

the charmed spot the statue of Salus lay as
dust at the foot of its crumbling pedestal, the
garland buried in the ruins.'

Alas ! alas ! And is that the fate of
Fidelis ? '

It is. The light crown which Severus put
on the old man's head yesterday has borne
him to the earth.'

Dead ? ' exclaimed Saserna.

'No, not dead, but in his last hours; a
centurion still : yet in the bonds of death and
past my art to save.'

Will he live long ? ' •

Not to see the full glory of the day,
Saserna. When the symbol of your Eoman
god Apollo, the symbol of his everlasting
existence, his yes his great I am the eternal
sun, is longest away from the earth the
feeble of the sons of men, though they were
once the strongest, depart before the breath
of his rising and are no more. Farewell ! '

And gathering up his robe the Achates
turns back from Saserna to seek his own place
by the side of the Caesar he so faithfully serves.

For a brief period Saserna, wholly absorbed
in the parable he has heard, stands at the door

of Fidelis. He would enter lead he not been
arrested by the gentle voice of Huldah, who
seems to hin to commence singing to the
God of her faith a prayer she has turned into
the Latin tongue to make it more familiar to
the dying Eoman.

Wait ! wait 1 for the Lord ;
Let thy soul wait for the Lord,
And trust thou in His word.
Wait thou for the Lord
More than the watchers wait
Who look out for the dawn,
For the dawn, for the dawn of day.'

It is as if she were singing a babe to its
sleep with her foot upon its cradle,' muses
the editor ; ' and so she sings that infant of
a hundred years to his eternal rest. But to
which of the immortal gods she chants I trow
not. Jove is not chaste enough, Mars is too
savage. It must be to the God of her own
people to whom was built the gorgeous
temple which Vespasian laid in ruins, with
the city called Jerusalem in which it stood,
and near to which Fidelis was born.'

And, continuing his musing but not daring
to break the divine song, Saserna, with the
words still on his ear : —

Wait 1 wait ! for the Lord ;
Let thy soul wait for the Lord,
And trust thou in His word,'

follows rapidly his friends to the villa of
Severus.

He passes through a passage in the pine
wood, reaches the threshold of the residence
and, after lighting his lamp quickly with flint
and steel, enters the first court in which
persons who come on business are received.
Crossing this he ascends by two steps to the
middle court, where favoured guests are permitted
to enter. Thence he passes into a third
court, on the right of which is the sleeping
room of the man laid low with wine, and
treading noiselessly joins his comrades thereto
give them, if need be, any assistance they
may require.

The house, or as it is commonly called the
Court of Severus, is the type of the Eoman
dwelling, like that in which Sallust lived in his
day, but changed a little to suit the variable
and sometimes severe climate of Britain. It
is built within the ever-green pine wood, the
branches of which both shelter and purify it.
It is furnished to suit not so much the taste as

the service of its master. It is literally filled
with the various requirements of the soldier :
armour, arms, movable folding tents, and
everything that is portable and useful in the
field. The middle part, used for the reception
of visitors by most Eomans, is here a
museum and library. Its walls are covered
with maps of the country, of towns, rivers,
plains, roads and harbours. It is Britain condensed
to the eyes of its master ; whilst its
floor is strewn with trophies and relics of various
campaigns, ranged in order, but not in such
order that a stranger would understand them.
Adjoining the room in which the now helpless
warrior sleeps, the sleep of wine, is the hot-air
or Eoman bath, in which the people of Eome,
losing by this time their rude strength, are
beo-innino- to indulge With too wanton indulgence.
Each Eoman who can afford it has
now his hot-air bath, the Emperor excepted,
and Severus following the custom has his in
his own house. To him the bath is a saving
remedy. In it he evaporates off into the air
the fumes of the one and only enemy that
even laid him low.

Ere Saserna arrives the friends have removed

the insensible Severus from the ambulance,
• have skinned the leopard,' as Tinnius
profanely remarks, and have laid him on his
own couch as dense a log as ever.

Take care,' continues Tinnius, ' take care
that you move nothing to show you have
entered his sepulchre, and carry away carefully
the skin and the spears. He will wake
up then, thinking he got home of his own will
and strength.'

They follow the injunction to the letter ;
leave in his degraded glory the leader of
Eoman Britain to fight his most fatal foe ;
and return to the home of Tinnius just as
the day is beginning to dawn.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IX.

INTERPOSITION.

We see by the history of the last chapter how
some favoured ones of the Eoman camp ended
the festivity of the preceding day. But there
are others under our care, and one especially
whose course and fate must claim our close
and immediate attention.

The masses went their usual way, to discuss
the events they had seen, to sleep over them,
and hope for a return of a similar excitement.

Do they not bestow one human thought
on that wretched victim of their mirth, who
was made to run the gauntlet of fire ?

Is there no touch of human sympathy for
him ?

Not a touch ! Not a touch !

The eras of Augustus and of his successors,
grand as they may be, are eras of the savage

man, of tragedy in earnest, of martyrdom in
sport, and of life altogether, as the dying-augustus
himself defined it, life in comedy, in
which the comedy of pain plays the choicest
part.

To this civilisation the fate of Simeon the
living torch is so small a subject of sympathy
that the majority of the masses are inclined
to complain because the whim of the Emperor
permitted the youth to escape into the open
country. Had Severus retained command, the
torch might have been run in the large arena,
round and round, until it had blazed out.
Then, half-cooked for ravening wolves or
bears, it might have been left in a fenced 
fight with the animals one by one, until,
unable to fight more, it yielded up its body
to their devouring jaws.

Whether, as it is, he, the running torch, is
suffocated in the smoke which rose from his
body, or is roasted alive, or is lying like a
hunted deer in ditch, or field, or fence, to die
by inches, is, to the masses, not worthy of a
passing thought.

In a select few, however, his fate excites a
different, if not a better feeling.

K 2

In Hadrian it excites a mystery which he
trusts to time to explain.

In Severus it excites doubt, which he
likes not, and which he is anxious to solve.
At his command that troop of horse which
called the companions of Tinnius Eufus out of
the tent has gone forth to find the torch or his
remains.

In Huldah does it excite no cause of concern,
no anxiety ?

Strangest even of all ! None !

Her soul communes with higher powers
than men. She is a woman of faith that will
remove mountains. She not only believes, but
she knows that he whom she bade go on in
the name she sang, and with the promises she
delivered in that holy name, is under such
shelter that he will take no harm. Literally,
to her faithful eye, Simeon would go through
the fire and not be burned, through the
waters and not be overwhelmed.

Could he who was fore-known, fore-ordain
"d ere ever the seas or the earth were
mac , or the light was separated from the
darkness ; could he be left to perish ? The very
doubt where a sin, infamous and unpardonable.

against the God of lier race, whose promises
are the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever.

She, moreover, has two other cares, which
occupy her thoughts.

Milo, the owner of the Numidiann out of
whom she had cast the evil one ; Milo, disgusted
with the infirmity of his man-brute, has determined
to sell the creature, at an immense loss,
to some young Eomans who intend next day
to have him baited again for the Emperor's
private sport and theirs. If sold to them, he
is to fight more wolves with that massive
club, and wagers run high on the event.

The spirit that guides Huldah tells her,
without being asked, that the Numidiann must
be saved.

She requires no further prompting. Sometimes,
when she seeks the aid of the spirit
from her own earthly wishes, she doubts the
nature of the response ; it is ambiguous, it
leaves too much to her judgment, and is not
of faith. Then her heart is weak, and her
mind is borne down. But when the spirit
speaks of itself, when it says, without being
consulted, do this thing straightway, there is
no doubt, no delay. To save this man is therefore

her first care and duty ; but she has yet
another care almost as pressing and severe.

On her return to the tent of Fidehs, after
leaving the Circus Britannicus, she finds Fidehs,
completely prostrated by the events of the day,
lying on his couch, talking of men and things
of whom she has no knowledge, as if she understood
him.

The experience is new to her : she has
never seen Fidelis tired or lying down except
at his usual hour for rest ; she has never
heard him talk in that garrulous way; she
has never before known him refuse to listen to
her words of affection and trust, as he does
now.

She has a duty to fulfil to this father of
fathers, and she has a duty to fulfil to the man
whom she has released from the power of the
devil. To these duties she lends herself with
a devotion which none but a nature such as
hers could put forth.

In the midst of all Simeon remains on her
mind, yet neither with anxiety nor fear. He
is her true soul's care, but the Holy One is with
him.

Why,' she asks herself, ' why, whenever I

think of him, should the spirit, my spirit, say
these promises to me but to assure me ? '

And so she is led to trust and perfect
peace.

Oh ! happy they who, relying on such sure
foundation, found their every hope on the
God of their salvation.

Perchance, too, these favoured ones have
their soul's peace resting on natural law.
Perchance, in time, wise men will discover in
vital physics, and in the destinies accomplished
by them, that by natural ordinance, respecting
which there shall be no mystery, some of the
earth are ordained thus to hive in immediate
communication with the eternal energy which
fills all life and speaks to the human heart
through the human soul.

To us, at all events, let Huldah remain
divinely assured that her beloved is, as she
believes, protected by the promise and the
power that none can overcome.

Let us also, leaving her for the time to her
beneficent tasks, resting on her promises and
cherishing them, follow him upon whom her
heart is fixed, and see how far her faith is fulfilled.


To effect this change in our programme it is
necessary for us to go back to the time when
Simeon, as the running torch, was led out to
meet his great and fearful ordeal.

Our minds thus diverted naturally return
to the strange and noble-looking man, who,
with his angelic child, sat in the circus and
wondered at the pleasure testified at so much
sin and pain. With infinite anguish, which but
for gentle outlets of tears had broken their
hearts, the two had sat out the battle between
Simeon, the Numidiann, and the wolves.
They had watched with untold wonder and
relief the episode of the power of the dark and
beautiful Huldah, rising from the feet of the
Emperor, upon whom they looked with little
favour, to accompany Simeon the condemned
with cymbal and inspiring song. Towards her
they turned their eyes with pious admiration,
esteeming her as a being not only beautiful, but
endowed with supernatural gifts and qualities.

But when they fully understood the fate
that was in store for the youth, so handsome
and so brave, their hearts gave way altogether.
They had not conceived it possible that an act
so foul could be committed ; and, powerless to

arrest the iniquity, they did the best they
could to show their utter detestation of it.
They bound up their sandals, gathered their
robes around them, and left the accursed place
for ever.

When they had reached the outside of the
grand circus, and saw once more the distant
hills before them, the sobbing child found
relief in words.

Will they, dearest father,' asks the sweet
voice, ' will they truly set on fire him who
has done no wrong and been so generous ?
Will they indeed make his poor body a torch
of Having fire for their wicked sport and pleasure
? '

Alas ! my child, I fear they will do, even
with delight, whatever that monster human
god who rules over them may choose to command.'


And can we, dearest, do nothing to save
him ? '

I have been forecasting that hope, my
own, and foresee an opportunity. If he can
leap the pit and run with sufficient speed across
the valley leading from the eastern gate of the
circus ; if he can climb yonder hill ; if he

can reach on the other side that pool on the
bank of which we said our morning prayers
to the fountain of Hght and love ; and, if into
that pool he can plunge, his danger might
be over. Thither we will hasten to guide and
help him.'

But what if from weakness he should sink
before he reaches the pool ? '

'We may even then see some plan by
which to aid him. But let us away.' And,
with the swiftness of spirits, they seem to fly,
until they arrive at the little lake over the
rising ground on which their minds have
centred.

In the rushes that surround the pool
some native had moored his light boat, made
of slender rods of hazel or willow covered
with skins of oxen, and holding within it
the paddles, just as they in the morning had
seen it.

May I touch the boat ? ' sighed the child ;
'tis covered with the skin of a slain animal,
and the paddles are stained with blood ?'

Our sacred commandments teach that to
save any human life all rules ordinarily held
holy may be broken, since the human life is the

purest part of the eternal fire from which we
have our being.'

Withdrawing her gently from the margin
of the pool, and instructing her what to do,
the wise man, a leader of his race, draws out
the canoe, places it in a position ready for it
to be entered in a moment of time, and then
returning to his child, moves with her to a
point of vantage where they can look over the
valley towards the encampment.

There they recline and watch with vigilant
eyes.

Quickly the child's keen sight catches what
they are looking for.

See ! ' she cries, ' he is in sight ! he ascends
towards us ! He approaches us like a blazing
meteor traversing the earth. Let us kneel
and pray.'

And, for a moment, they did kneel to their
deity, imploring him fervently not to devour
the innocent youth who bore his raging flame.

He conies ! he lives ! he will be with us
in an instant. Let us, dear father, lead him
to the lake.'

Go forward, my sweet one ; but not too
near him, lest thy frail garments touch the

fire he carries. In the Eoman tongue call to
him to follow thee as if thou wert a spirit in
his path ; so calling, flee thee to the canoe and
join me. He will follow us and live.'

Like a truly angelic being the child flies
towards the flaming Simeon, and, waving a
light scarf to fix his attention, calls out with
sweetest voice, ' Come, come ! Follow me !
Follow me 1 '

In the strange confusion and excitement
of the moment, the living torch, though he
were of merest ordinary mould of mind, might
be excused if he believed that some more
than ordinary power had interposed on his
behalf. To him who felt himself fore-ordained,
the manifestation, if not an expected event at
that precise moment, is a perfectly reasonable
and probable occurrence sent and meant to
save him. To his firm set enthusiasm this
voice is but another of the voices of the night
on which his soul had from its first watches
fed, and, without hesitation, he follows the
spirit before him whithersoever it may lead
him.

Rapidly, still hearing the sweet call, 'come
come ! ' he sees the angel join another being of

resplendent beauty, sitting as it seems to him,
the entranced, on a lake of crimson, over which
both gode away beckoning him still to follow.

A hissing sound, like that the smith produces
as he dips his heated metal in the trough,
a cloud of vapour from the surface of the pool,
and the living torch might have been transformed
into a drowned man, but for the two
strong arms and the assistance they afford.
Soon he feels a powerful hand on his body
helping him to rise from the water ; a few
moments more and he stands erect.

He stands a blackened mass, but safe and
sound, breast high in the water, throwing his
long black locks from off his face and gazing
wildly at his deliverers.

The prophecy is, indeed, fulfilled. " When
thou walked through the fire it shall not consume
thee, through the waters they shall not
overflow thee ! " '

Above his head the stars are shining in

o

radiant clearness; facing him one lustrous
orb seems to fill him with her own glory ;
he hears the voices of angels who lead him
through the river of life Zion-ward. Surely
he will soon behold the city whose streets

are paved with gold and where there is no
death.

The expectation is false, as many other such
have been before. When his feet rest on the
shore, he hears the voices telling him, still in
the Latin tongue, not to fear ; and soon they,
in turn, are entranced as he raises his hands to
heaven, and, in a language they seem to comprehend,
pours forth his thanks.

My heart is fixed, my heart is fixed.
I will sing and give praise.

I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people,
I will sing unto thee among the nations.
For thy mercy is great unto the heavens,
And thy truth unto the clouds.
Be thou exalted, God, above the heavens.
Let thy glory be above all the earth.'

They are sublime words, declarations
uttered with the fervour of one inspired. They
clothe a secret declaration that henceforth,
through a life however short, however long,
the message shall be uplifted as a banner to be
read by all peoples : —

Be thou exalted, God, above the heavens.
Let thy glory be above all the earth ! '

The listeners are as enraptured as the
worshipper ; but one of them, ever wise and

prudent, reasons with himself that some enquiring
followers from the camp will surely
pursue, and that ere the moon shall rise it
were well to study the best measures for complete
escape from a place which to him is as
the confines of a world of sin and death.

He sings, my father, he sings ! ' exclaims
the rapturous child ; ' he must be well.'

True, my own, all who can sing can live ;
and observe that he offers his thanks to the
Omnipotent Power that has so far saved
him before he turns to the instruments that
omnipotence has employed. 'Tis according to
our own sacred law and the wisdom of our
blessed ancestors. It is as it should be.'

The declaration finished, Simeon for the
first time addresses himself to his deliverers,
to whom as beings of more than human
quality he bends in admiration.

The idea of their supernatural character
is dispelled by the extremely practical manner
in which the chieftain speaks to him.

Thou hast done well, my son, to return
thy thanks to thy Omnipotent Lord. Tous,
mortals like thyself, let no thanks be
given, save those which come from a true

and grateful heart, in deeds of truth and
honour.'

With ready skill he once more places the
little canoe in the rushes by the shore, as he
had found it, obliterates all trace of footsteps
and other signs of what has occurred during
its use, and enquires with tender care, if he
who has escaped so terrible a peril is fitted for
further flight. To his satisfaction he finds
that this is quite possible. From the rapidity
of the flight of Simeon the bituminous covering
on the sackcloth garment has alone blazed into
fire, and the brisk wind which he has faced,
blowing the flames behind him, has saved his
face. The pouches or bags into which his
hands and arms were thrust, are charred, so
that he can force his hands through them, but
his hands are not burned.

In a word, the intended victim, by simple
natural causes alone, has escaped scatheless.

Seeing this with much delight, his wise
deliverer calls his child, who, like a sentinel,
watches the Eoman camp, and, giving to her
his right and to Simeon his left hand, he leads
them into the night.

CHAPTEE X.

IN THE CAP OF LIBERTY.

Whilst Simeon is being led away into the
dark unknown, the Numidiann, with whom his
fate has been so singularly linked, is passing
through another phase of his life, which, as
having an important bearing on the future of
this history, must occupy our exclusive attention
in the present chapter.

Like an animal in a menagerie, the human
animal from whom the demon has been cast
out is lying in a kind of wooden stall or pen
outside the camp, under a guard of camp-followers,
who, as soldiers incapacitated by
wounds from regular service, are now employed
in watching the animals and men
intended for the sports of the arena.

On the Numidiann his guards look with a
mixture of admiration and fear. They have

VOL. I. L

disarmed him of his club ; they have pacified
him, as they think, by giving him an extra
layer of clean straw for his bed. They have
placed beside him a large leathern jug filled
with pure water for his drink ; and, from time
to time, they have thrown to him scraps of
food from their own table, in addition to the
fare which Milo has provided for him.

Moreover, when they want him to get up
in order to show his limbs or display his
muscular feats to the gallants who come to
inspect him, they command him in a gentler
tone and gesture than is their custom, while
they enter into his cell as rarely as is possible,
and always with dainty vigilance.

For this Hercules incarnate, and lately
possessed of a demon, is a captive whom it is
considered wise to leave as much to himself
as is convenient. He is a new experience
altogether.

The next possible impending fate of the
miserable wretch is known throughout the
camp, and also to himself, for they who have
come to look at him through the bars of his
den talk as freely within his hearing about
the ordeal he is likely to go through, as they

do before the famishing animals which are to
be his awful foes.

The proposition, as we have already seen,
is that he shall next day fight again with
wolves ; and it is now suggested that he shall
fight two sets of six each, one set after the
other, in continued contest, for the enjoyment
of the gallants who wish to purchase him, and
who, of a wild and sporting character, are good
representatives of certain of the oldest and
most influential families of Eome.

The gallants drive a close bargain with
Llilo, and he, for he is notoriously a hard
bargainer, with them. They survey the man
they would purchase, at a respectful distance,
from head to foot. They admit his herculean
strength, but they dwell on that fatal flaw in
his value, the demon that possesses him.

Milo, on his part, first maintains that the
demon has been driven out of the animal.

But will he guarantee that it will never
enter him again,' they enquire. ' If he will
there is his full chain with the penalty attaching
to it should his guarantee fail.'

Not sufficiently certain of his case to accept
these terms, Milo slily parries his offer

has

a joke, and in a half-hearted bantering tone,
commonly assumed by all barterers in flesh
and blood, praises the faults of the chattel he
would sell.

'Mayhap the demon is at the bottom of
all the skill which he possesses, and only
throws him when he is doing wrong ; therefore
it were best it should come back to him.'

The gallants take this suggestion at its true
worth, and thinking they have their man in a
corner, they laugh, and leave him in order to
join in the tumult incidental to the song of
Tinnius Eufus, ' Ecce Imperator.'

The song over, they stroll about the camp
as gallants will ; and when they feel that they
have given Milo full time for reflection, they
go to the tent of that crafty salesman to reopen
the negotiation.

To their utter bewilderment, as they enter
the tent, they discover the human animal who
for their next morning's sport might be devoured
of wolves, clothed in Eoman attire like
their own, only of plainer stuff, and seated with
Milo as at least his equal.

Divested now of all the barbarous trimming
that have been put upon him for the

arena, he is a fine and stalwart man, of olive
complexion it is true, but of grand and noble
expression, and of graceful and even dignified
manner.

The gallants, there are four of them, cannot
believe their senses. In their wonder they
rush back to the pen where the Numidiann
had been confined-the

pen is occupied by six goats, which turn
towards them with mocking baas shrill and
pressing, as if asking for the food they expect,
or the young of which they have just been
robbed.

For the fun of this night, and for the
matter of that of many other nights, the gallants
have assumed to themselves the names
of Brutus, Cassius, Pompey, and young Octa-virus,
characters supposed to suit and fit their
respective natures.

'By all the infernal,' lisps the young
Octavius,' this change of animal out-cigars
Caesar.'

Another miracle ! ' exclaims Pompey.

A beastly attempt to extort from us more
gold,' whispers Brutus.

But not Likely to succeed until we have

Stripped the beast, and seen that we have not
been cajoled by a counterfeit,' urges the fiery
Cassius, as he draws his dagger-knife to rip up
the toga of the released Numidiann, to whom,
while carrying on their exclamations, they
have furiously returned.

Hold, gentlemen, hold ! ' interposes Milo.
Who touches him touches Caesar. He is
mine no longer. He has obtained his freedom,
ranks as a Eoman citizen like ourselves, and
as his club is now his own weapon, it were
wiser for you to drink to his future success asa
freeman of Eome, than to quarrel either with
Caesar or with him.'

And as Caesar and the weapon of the newly
freed man are not things to be trifled with,
the gallants, like all men who are prudent as
well as gallant, throw themselves at once into
the humour of Milo, call for wine, and would
now drink to the new representative of freedom
and power until break of day, did he not
check them.

In the country from whence I come, noble
sirs,' he explains in a gentle but manly tone,
and with good Eoman accent, ' in the country
whence I come my people use a bow which

DO other people can bend. We live to one
hundred and twenty years. In the days of
our forefathers, King Cambyses and his son
Cyrus feared to fight against us, and one of
your own Caesarss failed to subdue us, though
he took some of us captive. All our men are
strong as I ; our women, equally strong, are
far more beautiful ; and the secret of all our
strength lies in one simple act. We take no
stupefying food or drink.'

By Bacchus ! ' whimpers the young Octavius,
' this is too blasphemous. I pray thee,
Brutus ! Cassius ! Pompey ! let us go to the
temple ! let us go to the temple ! '

And what,' asked Milo, when the exquisite
had departed, ' what, thou fortunate of
fortunate men, will be thy next promotion ?
I warrant thee thou wilt take for a wife this
Jewish Huldah, and be more enslaved than
ever. Women do not give freedom to handsome
young athletes without trying to take
them all to themselves.'

The suggestion, a mere random joke of a
rough Eoman soldier flushed with wine and
newly primed with money, throws the freedman
into a frenzy almost as demonstrative as

the seizure in the arena, an exhibition which
brings such fears to the affrighted Milo that
his red cheeks turn ghastly pale.

Fear not,' responds his visitor encouragingly,
' fear not, good Milo ; the spirit which
so long haunted me is cast out for ever. But
thy saying struck deep into my heart and
transfixed it. Why, man, in all thy calendar
of Eoman goddesses there is not one so divine
as she who gave me freedom. They call her
divine half in sport, half in fear. She is
divine ! She is not mortal, nor is there mortal
man will ever dare to claim her as wife. Her
follower through life to death I may be ; her
faithful companion, her tried servant, her
proven friend, but never more.'

And seeing the earnestness of the speaker,
and that there is no danger of a return of
the evil demon, the recovered Milo, who believes
about as much in goddesses and divine
women as he docs in a bad bargain, allows
the new freedman to relieve his full heart by
a copious flood of tears, without any interruption.


Strange,' thinks Milo, as he busies himself
in putting things in order in the tent, and in

preparing a couch for the new occupant,
strange that a Hercules like that should cry
like a baby. I wage me that Severus, or those
madcaps, or Tinnius Eufus — well, I'll not be
too sure about Tinnius — or myself, would
never cry like that at my words. Surely it was
natural enough to suppose that a handsome
young woman who gives all the money she
possesses to buy a handsome young man, who
was going to be turned into an ugly old wolf
within twenty-four marks of the candle, would
have him in her eye as something unusually
excellent. Why not?'

Thus musing whilst he arranges the
couches, and then sitting down on his own
couch to unloose his sandals, Milo falls into
a brief reverie on the events of the day now
coming to a close, a day which has given a
freedman to Eome, a worshipper to Huldah
the Jewess, and a mint of money to his own
exchequer.

Let us leave Milo absorbed in what is passing
before his mental gaze, and go back a
short time in order to disclose the mode in
which the Numidiann obtained his freedom.

We know already that Huldali had determined
to save the man from whom, by some
strange spell, she had cast the demon, and to
whom, by some stranger spell still, she was
attracted, as if by a mysterious hand which
led her to resolve on his deliverance in a mode
which shall, for a moment or two, occupy us
as observers of a stratagem of fate.

Fidehs the Centurion of a hundred years
has returned, as we have already seen, from
the Circus Britannicus back to his own quarters
a changed man. He is faithful as ever to all
that a brave man holds most dear — his religion,
his duty, his country, his friends.

These have ever been the four corner
stones of his temple of life : religion, duty,

COUNTRY, FRIENDSHIP.

And on four sounder foundations has no
man ever built.

The events of the day have, however,
proved at last too much for his powers. The
excitement of the triumphal march around the
course ; the arrival of Hadrian, whom he had
once escorted in the previous reign, and to
whom, then an uncrowned man, he had rendered

useful service ; the conduct of his protege
Simeon, the obstinacy of the youth, and
his fate ; the miracle he had witnessed. These
have induced in him a foreboding sadness,
followed, for the first time in his life, by
prostration both of body and mind.

He listens to Huldah's conversation, after
a time, with a kind of vacant pleasure, and
when he notices her sadness, as she tells of the
use which he out of whom she had cast the
bad spirit was soon to be put, he becomes
variable in mood, now mirthful, then contemplative,
in rapid succession.

No longer Fidelis, the centurion of Caesarea,
unmoved and always ready, but a child of
children.

With resignation he lays down the viris on
his couch, and the sturdy rod, as if conscious
of its own helplessness without him, falls to
the floor.

Oh, terrible omen ! The viris falls from
Fidelis to the earth.

Tell it not in the camp, for it is the end of
power.

After a while, raising himself, with Huldah
by his side, he takes her hand, and seeming

to recast his thoughts, led back by some
recollections of his early career, he questions
her.

Child,' he asks, ' art thou still firm in the
faith of thy fathers ? '

Hnldah bends her head, as if that act were
alone sufficient to attest her firmness and sincerity,
and with continued revival of memory
he proceeds.

'Tis well, my child, 'tis well. Keep thy
faith, keep thy faith. In body thou may'st
bend to men, for they are of the kingdom of
this world, but keep thy soul free and pure.
Thy father died for his people. 'Twas my
duty to lead him out to be crucified. Many
times we had most friendly meetings, Eoman
soldier as I was, Jewish reader in the synagogue
he. But he rebelled against Eome, and I had
my duty to perform, which, sad towards him,
did not prevent me saving thee and thy playmate
under his charge, the youth Simeon.
Henceforth you and Simeon were the children,
the second children, of the childless Fidelis,
for my own two children, boy and girl, together
with the mother that bore them, one of thy

people, were taken from me by accident, in
the springtime of my manhood,

Often, often did their mother read to me
from the sacred book thou knowest so welland
though it was foreign to me it comforted
me. Thy voice is Hke hers ; tell me something
from thy book,'

With cheerful obedience Huldah narrates
to him in low and gentle chant the music of
the early stanzas of the second Isaiah. She tells
him of the Creator of the ends of the earth ;
who fainted not, neither is weary ; whose understanding
is unsearchable ; who gives power
to the faint, and to them that have no might
increaseth strength ; before whom the youths
faint and are weary, and the young men
utterly fall. But they that wait upon Him
renew their strength, mount up with wines
as eagles, run and are not weary, walk and
are not faint.

To the old man the sweet words and
promises seem to give new vitality.

He is a great King, Huldah, my child.
He is a great King. I wish I were one of His
centurions. I should like to travel to where

He is, and see Him in His noble palace, and
show him the chaplet Severus put on my
head when they called so loud my name. Let
us go to Him. Let us go ! '

The words fall from his lips like those of
a little child about to take a journey to some
spotless home, of which it has been told and
which he dies to see.

Suddenly the mood changes, and matters
of immediate importance cross his mind relating
to the earthly future yet in store for
her whose hand he holds.

What, my child, can I do for thee ? —
what give thee besides the blessing of a man
who has filled his years ? '

A life,' she replies, ' a life, dearest friend
and protector ! Give me a life that, once given,
shall, I promise thee, be devoted, body, soul,
and spirit, to that Lord and Master you would
serve so faithfully.'

Life ! life ! life ! Is not that, maiden, in
the hands alone of the great King ? '

Nay, 'tis in thine now,' she cries, as she
looks imploringly into the bewildered face of
the child of children, ' Thou hast influence,
thou hast means. No one to-day will deny

Fidelis anything that thou hast means and
will to ransom.'

And then, slowly and gently, that he might
receive it all, she tells him the impending peril
of the slave from whom she has cast out
the unclean spirit, and claims his purchase
for the service of the King of kings, whose
worshipper she is.

It is a prayer easily granted — granted, in
fact, with a smile and laugh of delight, as if it
were a good piece of pastime or sport. Milo
is sent for ; his terms, not by any means
extortionate to Fidelis, are accepted without
demur; the bond is paid, and the man, once
possessed of a demon, is bought and made
over to the good angel who has been sent to
accomplish his second deliverance.

She must lose no time in claiming what
belongs now to her.

Exhausted with the efforts he has made,
Fidelis sleeps like an infant, and Huldah issues
forth from his tent on her mission of mercy.

The slave also sleeps. The last heartless
bargainer for him has subjected him to the last
inspection, and he has been shut up for the
night, with the massive club dropped into two

slots to form a bolt for the outer door of his
den, and to act as a sign that this is the
place in which he lies waiting for his fate.

After the bolt has thus been put up he,
chained and securely fastened, disposes himself
for rest. He rolls himself up into a ball and,
as far as possible, buries himself in the litter
of straw so that the noise of those howling-wolves
may be subdued. Unable to fall into
slumber, yet feeling the need of it, he goes
through the mental process of once more
boldly meeting his foes in prospect, and of
devising how he shall act so as to be saved.
Shall he weary them each by flight, and kill
them one by one as they lie at his mercy ?
They are too numerous this time for that.
Shall he march up to each and with one
crushing blow kill, kill, kill ? 'Tis a bold idea,
but too fatiguing and watchful even for him.
He conceives next a method of meeting them by
making a new series of springs or leaps, and so
getting at them one by one, leaving the trusty
club to do the rest. By this exploit, six of
his enemies lie, in imagination, at his feet, and
the new ones being let in, so ravenous they
would devour the dead bodies of their kind were

they not driven off with torches of fire, also fall.
Then over a low part of the wall of the circus
where the fight is going on he leaps with his
club, and files away after Simeon, the Having
torch, so swiftly that no one can catch him,
and he is free in a strange land.

No, not quite strange either, for in the
meadows over which he strides he reaches, he
fancies, a land like that of his fathers. He
meets an invading force, is captured, is held
as a hostage ; is brought to some strange city
and sold there as a slave ; is trained as an
athlete ; is made to fight with real animals,
wild and savage, and with men dressed up as
animals ; is brought by his present master,
Milo, to Britain ; is made to fight a Jew ; is cast,
as he has often been, into a trance ; sees all
the heaven open to his sight ; sees one of the
host there come to him and relieve him ; is cast
again into a den, and is doomed tomorrow
to be devoured of wolves, whose voices ring
in his ears.

The torture destroys itself. One can but
die. And what is death ? Sleep is death, and
deep sleep comes with the thought as if by
inspiration.

VOL. I. M

As sleep vanquishes him his powerful
muscles relax ; his limbs stretch out ; his head
rests gracefully on his right arm ; his left arm,
naked and strong, rests gracefully on his body ;
around his body there still remains a portion
of the skin of the bear in which he fought by
the side of Simeon ; while round his neck is a
white flowing under-vest, the collar of which,
turned back as it was wont to be when he
stood in the slave market, discloses a throat
chiselled to perfection, above a chest of tremendous
power, moved by gentle breathing
deep, steady, and regular as the march of a
cohort.

His face, compared with what it was in the
arena, is now transfigured. The dark colour
with which it had been treated in order to
give it dense blackness has been removed :
the red colour with which the lips and eyebrows
were tinted has also been removed, and
now there is revealed that face of singular
power and grace which, by anticipation, we
have already beheld as a face at peace with
its own heart and with all the world.

Wrapt in a dark toga, to shield her from
common observation, Huldah approaches with

Milo to the den of the sleeper. As they enter
the gates of the menagerie, she, strong of will
as she is, is appalled ; for the noise of the
ravenous animals rises to a frenzy, as iVlilo
strikes his flint and lights his lamp. In a
moment, all sense of fear is absorbed in the
intent she has in view. In haste to fulfil her
mission and release her slave from his bondage,
she seizes the lamp which Milo holds out to
her, and, impatiently waiting while he lights
another for himself, follows him to the den
bolted by the club.

Taking in hand both lamps, as Mlo removes
the heavy bolt and delivers it over to the
sturdy keepers who are on watch outside, and
holding the lamps raised and forward from her
body, she enters the cage.

There he is,' observes his late master, as
she brings the lamps to shine on him, ' there
he is, as fine a slave as ever was born. If he
should go on sleeping like that until sunrise,
he could beat every wolf and bear in the
encampment, bringing back all the money he
has cost, and sleeping tomorrow night again
like a babe in his cradle, just as he is sleeping
now.'

M 2

Huldah, too absorbed in what she sees
to listen to the suggestion, recalls, with the
admiring wonder of a woman for every living
source of strength her Eastern poetry.

I am black but comely, ye daughters of Jerusalem ;
As the tents of Cedar, as the curtains of Solomon.'

I must,' she communes, 'wake him from
this deep oblivion ; but how graceful his
rest ! ' Then, questioning if he really can bethe
beast who fought with Simeon, she turns
to Milo and enquires :

Is this indeed the man from whom I cast
the unclean spirit ? '

The same. See you how the skin of
the bear still clings to his body ; but his arms
being uncovered and the dyes being off his
face, he becomes quite a different man.'

She is satisfied with the answer, but still
lingers ere she inquires further :

By what name is he rightly called ? '

He has been called by various names, according
to the feats he has done or according
to the whim of his masters ; but the name he
originally bore, as I have been told, was Helios,
meaning that he came from the land of the
east, and where it is said his father, who was

the leader of the people there. ^Yas slain in a
great battle with Trajan, who was beaten, but
who, by accident, fell, during his retreat, on
the chieftain's children and carried them away
captive.'

The name and the story struck her, for a
moment, mute, as if she had heard that name
before and that history. Then, as she pondered
she recalled to her ready memory that
in the Scriptures she had learned the name
of Elias. But Elias was Elohim dio made
the world, and this was Helios, after the
fountain of light which fills the world with
his glory and vivifies it with his power.
This man may be truly descended from her
race.

She kneels gracefully by his side, and
giving one of the lamps to Milo, who thereupon
wanders away to appease his ravening
wolves by throwing to them just sufficient food
to prevent them devouring each other, she is
left alone with the child of the East, her dark
mantle folded about the lower half of her
body, her white toga trimmed with gold en-robin
her shoulders and breast, her raven hair
falling over her back, and her dark eyes flashing

their rays over his face as the lamp she
holds aloft feeds them with its light.

And now another of the mysterious passages
with which she is so richly stored crosses
her mind :

Oh that thou wert as my brother that sucked the breasts

of my mother !
When I should find thee without I should kiss thee :
Yea, I should not be despised.'

By an impulse irresistible as it is natural,
as if the words inspired the act, she bends
over the sleeper, and with the softest kiss that
woman's lips can give, act with a touch and
voice which might almost have aroused the
dead, arouses him from his slumber.

It is a cruel awakening. He has fallen
back to a past preceding his captivity, when in
his blissful home he has gone forth with the
morning sun to see the attendants milk the
goats. He has with him his younger sister
and still younger brother ; they have sipped the
sweet milk from the gourds, they have rolled
with the young kids on the green sward,
and one of the kids, which is very fond of him,
is pushing its nose between his arm and side
to ensure recognition, when he hears his

mother, to him a divinity of love and beauty,
calling to him sweetly in the distance : —

EH, Eh, come ! '

It is the name which she, in a mother's
loving tattle, has contracted for him from the
longer and harder Helios.

Eh, Eh, come ! '

Is he again possessed ?

Is it a return of the old, old trance, he
asks of himself as he wakes from the enchantment.


No, it is her kiss on his baby cheek ; it is
her voice once more.

Eli, Eli, come!'

Ah, my mother ! my mother ! my mother !
Leave me not again for ever,' he sobs forth as
his heavy eyes open overflowing with tears ;
and that mother's voice in its own almost
forgotten language repeats ;

'Eh! Eh! come!'

Again the close foul den is manifest to
his awakening senses. But how changed the
scene ! The howhngs of the wolves have
ceased ; the darkness has fled ; and there is
one over him celestial with celestial light, who
speaks his native tongue, who knows his child's

name in its childish form, whose face, whose
voice, whose smile, is all of all to him again.

He is seized with an overwhelming desire.
The desire forthwith to die.

But before that desire has taken form he
is raised to full activity of life by the action
of Huldah and the entrance of Milo.

Milo unlocks his fetters, Huldah gently
helps him to rise, and casting some folds of
her dark mantle over her shoulders, presents
him ' per epistola,' — by letter, — with the
deed which tells him he is henceforth a freedman
by the act of Fidelis the centurion.

Bearing the epistle of freedom clasped to
nis breast, and, marvel of marvels, led forth by
the hand of its celestial messenger, he is soon
in the presence of the centurion of a hundred
years, who with the true delight of a child
calls him Libertinus — the Freedman — and invests
him with the badges of his freedom : the
cap of liberty, the white robe, and the ring.

Libertinus ! A Freedman ! A Eoman under
the protection of Caesar. A man, no more
to be bought, no more to be sold.

Libertinus ! A Freedman ! no more to fight

as a beast with men, nor as a man with beasts
unless by a will which, for the first time since
he knew it and its worth, is his own!

Libertinus ! A slave, whose soul belonged
to others and baser souls, set free ; a soul of
man set at liberty ! What inexpressible reality !
A man always free could never understand
the transformation.

Libertinus ! A Freedman. The lowest
slave, lowest born by descent, a slave of
slaves, is bewildered by the boon ! What,
then, a man of noblest nature and most
steadfast mind whom no lowness infects, no
cruelty stains, no danger appals !

We, who know nothing but freedom, can
never know his joy. He is born again. Born
to a new world, new hopes, new fears, new
loves, new life.

Milo invites the Libertinus, the Freedman,
to his own tent, to take up his abode there for
awhile, for which privilege Milo, we may be
sure, is well paid. Milo is always well paid.

No wonder that Milo, who values all things
and all men, and all women and all children,
by their money's worth, should venture to suggest

to his visitor, now re-named Eli Fidelis,
that a woman's love had bought him . a freedom
which he must sell again to the woman.

No wonder that Milo, as he sits on his
couch unlacing his sandals after the gallants
have left his quarters, looks furtively at Liber
tins, and is for once in his life at his wits'
end to discover what it can all mean, if neither
love nor money be at the root of a transaction
that crowns his once monster slave in the
cap of liberty.

CHAPTEE XI.
FROM britain to joppa.

Moving on in the course of our story, we
must for a time quit the little island of Britain,
and proceed to another and very different
place. To all the friends or acquaintances we
have made on the island we will for a short
time say farewell. Fabius and Vibullius have
gone for an excursion to the northern parts of
the island, to visit the barbarians there, and
take notes for a book of travel, which the
learned Fabius means to write if his industry
should ever equal his leisure. The renowned
Saserna remains at his post, busier than ever.
The gallants, the young Octavius, Brutus,
Cassius and Pompey, rest a little from our
further cognizance, with hopes that as they
grow older they may amend. The pious
Aaron of the Altar, and his neighbour the
good old Priest of the Temple of Apollo,

continue with their people in discharge of
their duties, both, for a time, dead to our
new life. Milo the bartering soldier, who
knows how to turn over honest coin so
cleverly, and grumbles to himself that Caesar,
who has no taste for sport, is no good for his
business, must also pass out of mind.

The whole island of Britain soon fades
from us as we set forth on our journey. It is
a wild coast ; it is a beautiful little land with
white cliffs planted in the sea ; it is a mere
speck in the sea ; it is as lost to our sight as
if it were submerged in the waters which we
traverse on the wings of our imagination.

We have left behind us, far away, an island,
and approach now the shores of the great
ocean in the middle of the world. We land
in a new place. The spirit that guides us tells
us that it has brought us to Joppa, the seaport
of Jerusalem.

This Joppa, or Jaffa, is an ancient town, and
is occupied by a very curious admixture of
peoples. It was built by Solomon the Wise
before he erected, under the skill of Hiram
Abiff the grand architect, the holy Temple
of the Holy City. It was the fate of Hiram

Abiff to die by the hands of three of his men,
designate ed craft masons, because would not
communicate to them, on their rude and insolent
demand, some of the higher mysteries of his
caring ; and these men, after they had killed
him and buried his body in the earth, fled
towards Joppa and concealed themselves in a
cave near by, where they were found by the
Menatschin or Prefects, whom the King had
sent out to trace them to their hiding-place.
The cavern remains to this day, and is one of
the antiquities of the city, as we soon discover.
At Joppa, as the seaport of Jerusalem and
of the land of ancient and sacred mystery to the
Jewish nation, all the great importations from
abroad are landed. It is a town of merchants,
strangers, and scholars, and for many ages
has held this distinctive history. Conquered
by the Onions, after the destruction of the
city and Temple of Jerusalem by Vespasian,
it has become an important Koman station,
and gradually under the united influences
of Eoman occupation, Phoenician commerce,
foreign communication, and Jewish tenacity
of purpose, is now a second Alexandria, in
which an immense number of schools, chiefly

Jewish, flourish and yield as many scholars as
the Eoman Governor, Servien, can well keep
under control with all his legions.

There is at this time amongst many other
synagogues of the Jews in Joppa one renowned
wherever the Jewish people travel, renowned
to them and to theirs. The crowds are now
filling it. Crowds of Eomans, Greeks, and
Persians are entering it. Jews of every kind,
from the students of the schools to the men
and elders, and women of all ages, are making
for it eagerly.

Lucilla, the wife of Servien the Eoman
Governor, prays her husband that she may
go, and Servien assents, with the wish that it
were compatible with his place that he might
accompany her.

For the message has gone forth that Akiba,
the chief of the Jewish Grand Sanhedrin is to
preach to the people.

In his voice there is music ; in his words
there is wisdom ; in his soul there is poetry ;
in his heart there is truth.'

So doth Lucilla, the wife of Servien the
Governor, report to her lord as she starts for
the synagogue.

No wonder that such a multitude crowds
to hear the word which Akiba preaches.
Music, wisdom, poetry, and truth, are the
master powers of man universal : blended in
one man they declare a man of men.

There is a Jewish school in Joppa for the
Jewish youth. After the schools of Alexandria,
on the plan of the best of which it is
founded, this is the most famous school of the
world.

Why ?

Akiba, the chief of the Grand Sanhedrin
is the chief of it. That is enough.

In this school Akiba takes his supreme
delight. He loves the synagogue, he enjoys
the reading of the sacred word : the Isaiah
are to him as waters of life which nourish the
soul ; Micah is as a fire which purifies ; and
Solomon is as an art which glorifies the living
temple of the Most High,

But the school is still his choicest treasure.
There he is the potter moulding the vital clay
of twelve thousand scholars into whatsoever
vessels of honour he chooses them to be. In
the school he constructs the future of his race.

All men call Akiba the Eabbi, or simply

Akiba. There are many others called Eabbi,
but he is the Eabbi of his people. To call
him a chief Eabbi would reduce his power
to commonplace.

On him fifty years sit easily. Akiba will
live a hundred and thirty years like our
father Israel, is the commonly accepted prediction
amongst the Jewish community ; a
prediction so often made that it becomes an
ordinary sajang, accredited and passed from
mouth to mouth, and concentrated into such
entire belief, that they who assume that their
own lives will needs be of shorter span beg,
as their special request, that Akiba will admonish
and guide their progeny even to the
unborn generations.

There is much in Akiba of a personal kind
which supports these ideas of superhuman
excellency.

He shows no trace of age. His step is
elastic, his figure erect, his laugh, his play, his
prayer as vigorous as that of a youth of prime
maturity. Amongst the pupils of the great
school he is a pupil rather than a master,
yet reverenced as he is loved.

All Israel that is near to him sends its sons

to be taught of him ; and as wealth is the last
of his desires, distance alone severs him from
the whole of his people who would be his
children.

To him also come the learned men, the
masters of the law, and the prophets, that they
may help him in composing and editing a
marvellous commentary that is to go forth as
anew and second testament and interpretation,
by proverb, discourse and legend, of the old
Scriptures that were written by inspiration.
These doctors and ' disciples of the will,' men
of humble life and occupation, come to him
by night with their untold stores of learning,
to read under his guidance and be guided by
his matchless light.

But the greatest power of all that is connected
with this man, and that establishes his
influence, is a story, already transformed into
a pious legend, in which he is represented.

Who wrote this legend is unknown. Some
say it was a beloved pupil whose severe studies
cost him his life. Others declare that a wise
woman found the story in the ruins of the
Temple in the holy city of Jerusalem. A
third set affirm that it came from the pen of a

VOL. I. isr

mysterious man banished in a lonely island,
who gave it forth, in prophetic strain, and was
heard of no more. From whomsoever derived,
it is to the oriental mind of Smite birth as
bewitching a story as ever was told of any
man of woman born ; a story next only in
wonder to that of Enoch, Elijah, Abraham,
Moses, Samuel, and the others who had communed
with the angel.

And he whose mysterious knowledge is
told in this record still lives amongst the living ;
preaches in the synagogue ; teaches in the
schools ; presides over the Grand Sanhedrin
or council of Israel ; and, meeting his people
daily in the streets and houses, is one with
them.

A man of human form like other men, but
of superhuman experience ; a man whose feet
have trodden ground which none since the
first days of man on this earth have trodden;
whose eyes have rested on wonders which no
man since the first man has seen ; whose ears
have heard a celestial voice and answered it ;
and who yet lives, and moves, and breathes
amongst his fellow-men.

The very heathen are influenced. Servien,

the Eoman Governor, is walking one day to
the baths in company with the princely
Fortunatus, the bosom friend of the Emperor.
They pass Akiba, and Fortunatus, a visitor to
the Governor and fresh to Joppa, is, like the
rest of the world, struck with admiration, as
if touched by some secret power, when Akiba
goes by.

Who,' asks the ever-inquisitive stranger,
who is this mysterious man ? '

He,' replies the Governor—' he is the
most learned of all the Jews, the chief of their
priests.' And dropping his voice, adds ; ' they
say of him that he is the only man who has
entered their Paradise or the garden of innocence
and come out of it alive.'

Is he one of the sect,' enquires Fortunatus,
' of those some call Christians ? ''

Of none akin, neither by relationship,
name nor creed.'

I am glad of it. In Bithynia those people
called Christians gave our once great friend,
the second Pliny, when he was proconsul
there, so much trouble, he had to write to
Trajan concerning them. They literally

N 2

emptied the temples of our gods by their
heretical worship.'

This man is none of them. He follows
the ancient faith of his fathers, expounds their
sacred Scriptures, and is from head to foot an
ancient Jew according to what they call the
law of Moses.'

I know that name as of the Jew who
wrote a history of the creation of the world,
and whom the Alexandrian Philonn Judges hath
commented on. But this man and follower
of Moses the great, what is his name?'

'Akiba.'

How dost thou spell it ? '

And Fortunatus, taking from his breast
his tablet and stylus commits the name, as
Servien spells it out, to what he calls his
second memory.'

'And this legend about him and the garden,
what of that? ' he asks, still holding the tablets
and stylus as if he would also write that
down.

Thou shalt hear for thyself, thou greedy
scholar; for know thou that my wife is so
affected to these Jews, having their blood in
her veins, that she will often herself have this

legend told before her as a sacred drama,
in which four voices speak the parts. Thou
shalt hear it this very night. Marah, Peri,
Tirzah, and Jachin, the first and third women,
the second and fourth men of our court, shall
speak the parts in character.'

CHAPTEE XII.

A LEGEND OF Paradise.

In the reception hall of the Eoman Governor
of Joppa, Servien, sometimes called Families,
because of the gentleness of his nature.

In the presence of Servien and of Lucilla,
his beautiful wife ; in the presence of Fortunatus,
the bosom friend of Hadrian the emperor ;
in the presence of the chief officers of the
household of Servien, and of the army of
occupation.

When the dinner has been completed and
the wine has ceased to be tasted.

When the sun has gone down and the
great hal of reception is lighted with many-lamps,
perfumed with waters of sweetest odour,
decorated with choicest flowers and cooled with
the gentle breezes from off the surface of the
sea of mid earth.

When the slaves have placed themselves

at the doors and curtains so that none ray
intrude to disturb the story.

When Lucilla has taken the seat of honour
between Servien and Fortunatus, and when
all the guests and household are seated.

When the players on the lutes have finished
their strain.

When the master of the ceremonies has
motioned all to silence, and has given the sign
that the story may begin.

Then, clad in rich and picturesque Eastern
garments : —

Marah, Eri, Tirzah, Jachin, enter into the
presence through an alcove of flowers, and
on the floor of marble apportioned to them
deliver their story : —

The Legend of Paradise.'

From the right hand, Marah, in pure and
plaintive tones, delivers an invocation to some
distant hidden power. Then, turning to the
audience, she explains the intention of him
who has invoked the unseen.

As her part ceases Eri, whose voice sounds
as from afar, declaims, from a point in the
centre farthest from the audience, the
answer of the mysterious being, who is called

the Cherubin, to the words of the invocation.


Next, from the left-hand side, the gentle
Tirzah relates in four simple lines, and in a
tone that almost reaches song, the progress
of the events.

Finally, with an emotional energy and
mystery which no one but an Eastern could
sustain, Jachin declares the result in a voice
that penetrates to the very marrow of the
listeners, and fills the delighted Fortunatus
with enthusiastic admiration.

The parts lit the characters as if by nature.
Marah's grace is of prayer, solemn, intense,
eager. Eri is keen, commanding, fearful.
Tirzah is slow, timorous, doubtful. Jachin is
strong, decisive, bold.

And now their task begins.

I.

March.

Oh mighty Cherubin, with flaming sword
Before the gate ! Before, before the gate !

Touches with human hands,

Sightless with human eyes,
Portal of sinful mortal fate.

The gate of Paradise !
Oh mighty Cherubin, speak but the word 1

That I may see the garden of the Lord
And grow more wise.

Thus spake the First of four of men who were

The living pillars of the deathless race.

Ezra ! the scholar and interpreter

Of the great book of life which time shall ne'er efface.

Peri.

Then from the flaming sword
Came forth the sacred word,
Enter thou faithful one ;
Thy work hath been well done,
r^ Enter the garden of the Lord.

TIRZAH.

Beyond the sword of fire.
Untouched by fire or sword,
He gains his soul's desire,
The garden of the Lord.

Machin.

That he may grow more wise

He enters Paradise.

Enters ! Beholds ! and Dies !

II.

March.

Oh dreaded Cherubin, whose flaming sword
Doth hide from mortal eyes the stream of life !
The tree of good and evil and its fruit ;
The place where God breathed into man his breath ;
The place where God and man spake word to word ;

Where every living plant and herb and brute,
Was given man ; and from him torn the wife
Whom the foul serpent led aside to death.
Oh dreaded Cherubin ! grant my desire
Unquenchable as thy consuming fire,

Which guarded Paradise !
That I may see the garden of the Lord

And grow more wise.

Thus spake the Second one who reached the goal.

Asaph ; a mystic form who shone,

As if his eager soul

Incarnate, would be gone ;

Leaving its fleshly dress

In this world's wilderness.

Peri.

Straight from the lambent flame the words were said ;

If that thou dearest not to see
What made a brother scholar like to thee

Fall with the dead ;
Killed by the glory he could not survive.

Then, true and faithful one !

Whose work hath been well done !
Enter the garden of the Lord, and live.

TIRZAH.

Beyond the sword of fire,
Untouched by fire or sword.
He gains his soul's desire,
The garden of the Lord.

Machin.

That he may grow more wise
He enters Paradise.

Enters ! beholds from whence

They were expell'd who did at first transgress.

Enters, beholds and flies

Back to the wilderness,

Bereft of every sense !

III.

March.

Lo ! glorious Cherubin with flaming sword !
Lo I I Elisha Ben Abiiyah stand —
Stored with all learning gained in every land-before
the gate whence Eve and Adam fled ;
Asking of thee that I may freely tread

The plains of Paradise.
That I may see the garden of the Lord

And grow more wise.

Thus spake the Third in tones of majesty ;
Elisha Ben Abuyah, who would pierce
The solid earth, the sea, the eternal space.
Not suppliant but as a Deity,
Asking from God of God ! As face to face
A ravenous man, feeling his hunger fierce.
Asks man to feed him to satiety.

Peri.

Again the voice from out the flaming sword.
Thou son of subtlety and earthly pride !
Wherefore within thy mantle's flowing folds
Dost thou those books of Baal worship hide ?
Our God, a jealous God, for ever holds
Him lost to him who serveth him in part.
Giving the lip, yet keeping back the heart.

Elisha Ben Abuyah stood dismayed,
But gathering up his strength and bending love
Thus to the flaming Cherubim he said.
These treasured books, dear as my own heart's bloods
I burn ! I burn ! I burn ! that I may know
The greater secret that before me lies,
The garden of the Lord saved from the flood,
The golden Paradise.

The flaming fire rose up and filled the skies :

A burning sacrifice
Of all Elisha Ben Abuyah loved.
It is enough, the Cherubim replies,
Thou art forgiven, is the gracious word.
And, every barrier to thy wish removed,

Enter the garden of the Lord.

TIRZAH.

Beyond the sword of fire.
Untouched by fire or sword.
He gains his soul's desire,
The garden of the Lord.

Machin.

That he may grow more wise

He enters Paradise. *

Boldly he looks around.

And treads the holy ground

As one who would declare,

I am the son and heir

Of him to whom these treasures all belong.

Rivers of life combine.

With the fruit of the Tree divine,

To norwich with marvels my tongue.

Of all that is here, as mine,
I will sing ! I will write ! I will tell !
From the gates of heaven to hell :
In parable, legend and song.

Filled with the curse of pride

Elisha Ben Abuyah makes his way,

Crushing with reckless stride

Whatever before him lay.

Crushing the tender plants so young and sweet,

The plants of Paradise, beneath his feet.

What voice is that he hears,

That breaketh him with fears 1

What pang is that he feels ]

It is the voice of God,

The angel's flashing rod.

Oh thou who kills the plants of Paradise

That thou, vain man, may grow more wise I

Fly from my wrath back to the wilderness.

And seek again thine everlasting peace.

A Lightning glance ! a split of earth ! a grave !

Outside the flaming gate.
Elisha Ben Abuyah, who shall save
Thee from thy fate ?
In flight he falls into that open grave,
And as the flint upon the steel
Strikes into fire, so he upon the ground
Bursts into lurid flames, which he can feel
Yet never can extinguish. Years roll round ;
Ages of sons of men sink down and die.

Elisha Ben Abuyah to be wise
Killed the young plants of Paradise.
His light is wisdom's fool. He bums but never dies.

lY.

March.

Oh faithful Cherubin whose flaming sword

Doth hide the garden of the Holy One !

May I, a shepherd born in Israel's fold,

Ask thee to ask of him I dare not name,

Th' Omnipotent ! World without end the same 1

That I the last of those who stood alone

Interpreters of his most sacred word,

May through thy glory enter Paradise,

And by thy radiant wisdom grow more wise 1

So spake the last of those who stood alone,
The matchless scholars of the deathless race.
Calm dignity from off his image shone.
Sweet modesty was written on his face,
With courage intermixed and gentle grace.
All set in comeliness.

Peri.

With cheerful voice the guardian spirit spoke :
Akiba the beloved, thy deeds are known.
He whom thou serves through thy nights and days
Hath read thy heart of hearts and seen thy ways.
Thou art to him a plain and open book,
And what thou askest now is all thine own ;
Thine own for knowledge, wisdom, precept, word.
Enter thou to the garden of the Lord.

TIRZAH.

Beyond the sword of fire.
Untouched by fire or sword,

He gains his soul's desire,
The garden of the Lord !

Machin.

That he may grow more wise

Akiba enters Paradise.

His feet retrace each round

Of the enchanted ground,

Saved only of all gardens from the flood.

The tree of knowledge yields him living food.

Within the bower where Adam slept he sleeps

Fearing no evil : knowing well that He,

Of omnipresent majesty !
The Holy One of Israel ! keeps
His steps from falling and his sleep from fear,
Life of his life : unseen yet ever near.

That he might grow more wise,

Akiba entered Paradise.

Entered and lived and learned.

And when his wondrous task was done

Back through the wilderness returned,

To teach to every chosen son

Of Israel born, the sacred mysteries.

The reciters retire : the guests depart
from the house of Lucilla and Servien, one
alone excepted, the princely Fortunatus. He,
for the moment, the resident guest of the
house, remains wrapped in fixed contemplation
of what he has just seen and heard.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE Leaked Child.

SeRVIEN, so soon as he can be spared, makes
his escape to his duty. He goes forth to see
with his own eyes that his sentinels are at
their posts. Nothing escapes his watchful
ken. His soldiers say he never sleeps. The
Jews repeat the saying, and well they may,
for he observes them, specially, by night as
well as by day.

There is sufficient cause for his anxiety.
The Jews are placed, by the chances of war,
under the powerful hand of Rome ; they are
subdued but they are not conquered.

A race is never conquered until it is
exterminated. It comes up like a flower, it
is cut down and withered ; but it comes up
again and flourishes unless its roots and seeds
be destroyed.

And now in Joppa twelve thousand youths

of the subdued race, twice the number of the
Koman soldiers there, are at the schools for
Jews ; youths filled to their souls' full charge
with the traditions of their fathers ; ready at
a moment's notice to rise and do whatsoever
Akiba should command. If they should rise
up and use no other weapons than the styles
with which they write, they were formidable.
If they were armed with weapons of war, they
were invincible.

Happily, weapons are not permitted to
them.

Akiba, moreover, is a wise and prudent
father. He has gathered around him other
scholars like to himself who have made learning
a field of combat, which turns, as Servien
feels, a war of swords into a war of words.
These scholars labour incessantly on the sacred
Jewish Scriptures. They translate their Scriptures
from their ancient tongue into Greek, and
even into Latin. They do more, they ' search
the Scriptures,' and out of them, with endless
activity, they learn the meaning of words, to
the minutest understanding of every word ;
they extract from obscure parts traditional
laws ; they turn the prophetic parts to their

VOL. I.

own modern use by the exposition of legend
and parable ; and they add to the whole the
study of those secret and holy mysteries
which appeared to ' him who saw the glorious
vision of the Creator and of the Chariot ' and
who by his learning and poetic imagination
was the prince of seers, the divine Ezekiel.

They labour to perfect and advance a book
of the ages, which commencing in Babylon is
to continue to the end of the world.

A truly harmless task, according to the
ideas of Servien and his compeers.

Let them read, write, learn and teach, and
all will go well.

One thing more has Akiba done which
carries with it confidence. He has taught the
different classes of his countrymen many useful
arts. A traveller through various climes, he
has studied metals, furnace work, and other
strange devices of men. He has learned and
taught the manufacture of spears, swords,
arrow-heads and shields.

Under strictest supervision of the Eoman
power, he has saved his poorer students
from revolt, due to destitution, by giving
them work in the manufacture of arms for the

Eoman legions ; arms so chaste, so bright, so
light, so beautiful, the like of them has never
been seen before. The javelins literally fly.
Servien therefore keeps the students of Akiba
in his regular employ making arms which, with
the exception of a few prepared for the use of
his own bodyguard and for one or two officers
of high rank, as test weapons, are jealously
stored away to be of use should an insurrection
ever break out.

They make lances for their own flesh, and
I keep them,' is a constant delight in secret
of Servien, who in his heart admires as much
as he pities Akiba, ' the learned child,' whom
much learning has driven mad. He congratulates
himself, and Eome also, whenever
he passes the well-sentinelled armoury where
the precious weapons lie, that he has turned
the skill of so learned a child to so good an
account. He has reported this clever stroke
of policy and stratagem to the Emperor, who
has written back to him commending his
foresight and ability. The Emperor has said
to him in special terms of commendation : ' If
thou canst make these Jews quarrel amongst
themselves about words and books while they



make swords for thee, thou hast outwitted
even a Jew.' What higher compliment, brave
Servien, could be paid to thy prudence and
thy strategy?

Whilst this crafty commander of Eome,
who bids fair to beat a Jew in subtlety, and who
is as honest of soul as he is brave and simple
of heart, makes his nightly walks, his adored
wife, surrounded by her maids, remains with
Fortunatus awaiting his return.

The conversation of Lucilla and Fortunatus
turns almost necessarily, certainly naturally,
on the remarkable man whose legendary
adventure has just been told to them in so
dramatic a form.

Putting aside this curious legend, noble
lady,' observes her visitor, ' in which we shall
or shall not believe according to our faith or
our philosophy, what is the real story of this
singular being about whose life there must
needs be something that is really and authentically
important ? '

There are as many stories, Fortunatus,
told about Akiba as there are moons in the year.
But one of the many is dearest to me because it
contains the tale of his lowly origin, his path

to immortal fame, and above all his true and
constant love.'

In short, it is a love story, my noble lady,
such as is most precious to a woman's heart.'

I confess it to be true, but even to thee it
might be pleasant, if, till Servien — who always
likes to hear it — returns, thou wouldst listen toit
thyself.'

With avidity, most thoughtful of hostesses ;
a love story is to me the essence of love, better
perchance than the thing itself.'

Fie ! Fortunatus, fie ! thou wilt be caught
in thy own net one day. Mar ah, my child, will
it tire thee after all thy exertions to read, once
more, the story ? '

It will delight me, mistress of my heart,
to do thy will ; and know thou, noble lord, that
the story is written in my lady's own hand,
though she tells it not herself.'

'I divined as much. What tallest thou
the story ? '

We call it the Shepherd and the Princess.'

CHAPTEE Xii.

THE SHEPHERD AND THE PRINCESS.

When Sisera was commander of the army of
Jabin, king of Tyre, he sent back to their
native Galilee Joseph, of the family of Abraham,
and Naomi, his wife.

And Jabin the king approved of the act of
Sisera, but why he did remains unknown unto
this day, for Jabin was a good king, whose ear
was open to the complaints of all his people,
whether native or mere sojourners, and this
proceeding seemed unjust because no charge
was brought either against the man or his
wife that they had broken the laws of the
kingdom.

What is still more strange, they were not
sent forth penniless or empty-handed. They
had provisions given to them for a long journey,
and they had money given to them sufficient
to purchase a flock for the desert.

But this was required of them, that they
should avoid all places where men live in
cities, and that they should pitch their abode
in some remote and secluded place where they
should rear flocks of their own, or tend the
flocks of some others who had flocks that
called for a shepherd.

The place required by the exiled Joseph
and his wife Naomi was not long waited for.
Amongst the merchant princes who traded between
Tyre and Judea was one called Cliuva,
a Jew by birth, and still young, who had
recently married a wife descended from the
royal line of David, once a mighty king in
Israel ; and the wife of Chuva, having pity on
the exiles, prayed of her lord that he would
find them a dwelling-place.

Now Chuva loved his wife of royal blood
more than his wealth, and her wish was his
law. So he provided the exiles with a tract
of his own lands in a far-ofi* place in the plains
of Carmel, and Joseph became the shepherd of
Chuva the merchant of Tyre and Judea, who
afterwards was one of the chief men of the
holy city of Jerusalem.

The humble shepherd and his wife, so far

from lamenting their fate, were, as it seemed,
glad to exchange the life they had hitherto
led for their new home on the solitary plain.
They, too, were yoimg and but newly married,
and they set out as for a marriage tour, dearly
beloved of each other, and trusting in the
God of their fathers, the God of Abraham,
of Isaac, and of Jacob who was also called
Israel.

In the wilderness, or plain in which they
went, they lived as shepherd and shepherdess
the long days of their natural life. Only
at times, when all Jews go up to the Holy City
to pay their vows to the Most High God, did
they go from their place of duty ; and not
even then until their only son was old enough
to tend the flocks while they were away.

For soon after Joseph the shepherd and
Naomi the shepherdess had settled down in
the plain, Naomi bore to Joseph a son, who
at first took the name of his father the
shepherd, Joseph ; but his mother, under the
spirit af heaven which directs the souls of the
faithful, was led to call him by the Tyrian
name of Akiba, which is said to mean the only
one, or the only son, under which name, she

prophesied that he was to be their only
child.

And the prophecy was fulfilled. Akiba
was the only child born to Joseph the shepherd
by Naomi his wife.

Thus the birth of Akiba was very humble,
and in some manner, as many think, mysterious
also ; for why were his parents driven from
Tyre for no known offence, and at the same
time loaded with gifts and money ?

The wisest man of men, Akiba himself,
does not know, how then shall a foolish
woman divine ? She will be silent, and will
not try to interpret the unknown.

The lad Akiba was born in the desert,
in the plains of Carmel, and having to tend
the flocks kept by his parents, breathed the
breath of the Lord in the solitudes of his
loftiest temple, the temple in which his honour
dwelleth, the temple whose foundations are
set on the four corners of the earth, and whose
covering is the mantle of his glory. And in his
holy wisdom and pleasure this Lord of Lords
was gracious to the youth, and, as we say,
called him,' so that he was from his cradle
beloved of God as well as of his parents and

of all whom he chanced to meet, during the
many years he lived in the desert, an obedient
son, and good shepherd of the flocks of Chuva.

But he was much more than an obedient
son and shepherd.

Amongst the few treasures which his
mother Naomi carried to the plains of Carmel
was the sacred book of the law of the Jews,
the chronicles of their judges and kings, the
history of their wars, and the songs of their
prophets.

All these she read to him, and taught him
also to read.

Until the evening stars threw the shadows
of things on the earth, and until the moonlighted
the temple of the angels, she, on the
roof of their house, where they slept, taught
him this book.

And when he closed his eyes under the
firmament, the firmament descended to him
and enfolded him, until the rising sun raised
it again high above him, and opened his eyes
to the day.

They who have never slept in the open air
under an eastern sky, secure on the housetop,
can form no conception of the influence which

such repose exercises on the mind. We
Eomans, who sleep under roofs and canopies
made by man, have mock purple and mock
stars for our envelopment ; rich, gorgeous,
costly, but poor, poor imitations of the curtains
and stars which enveloped the sleeping
shepherd boy Akiba, listening to his mother's
stories, until every story was a true event in
which he seemed to have taken part.

He was David, a shepherd standing before a
giant with a sing and a stone ; he was Solomon,
a wise king serving out justice from his throne.

In time this shepherd boy loved the book
of books beyond all else except his father, his
mother, and the sheep and lambs of the 
knew not only every chronicle, proverb
and legend, but every passage, every word,
every letter. Of all the great scholars of the
scriptures of old not one was more learned,
than this shepherd of the plain, in the written
word.

Yet all this knowledge might have been
buried with him amongst his flocks had not a
strange event in his life changed the direction
of his feet.

As he grew into manhood, with the volume

of wonders a living part of his wonderful
nature, his heart began to yearn that he might
do some great deed, fight for some great cause,
remove some great wrong, build some great
city or temple, preach some great faith, teach
some great knowledge.

How were his wishes to be fulfilled ?

Alas, he knew not. Except at stray times
when the rude merchants of the desert came
to carry off the wool that had been sheared
from the flock, or to buy the flocks that had
been reared for sale and drive them away, he
knew none with whom to speak. And these
men he shrank from ; for too often they bore
from him some lamb from the fold that he had
tended, and loved, and cherished, and at whose
last look his heart would almost break.

At length the fate that always comes to
those of faith, who wait, came to him.

It was one of those days in the year
when on the plain day and night are all but
one ; when the sun gives short pause from the
earth and in his absence leaves a trail of light
behind which, aided by that from the stars, is
caught up by the eastern glow that tells of his.
return

■ Akiba had gently cradled his flock, and
returned to the home of his father Joseph and
his mother Naomi, with his mind full of an
ancient scripture ; a prophecy of one Balaam,
a seer of the bygone ages : —

Which saw the vision of the Almighty,
Falling into a trance but having his eyes open.
I shall see him, but not now ;
I shall behold him, but not nigh ;
There shall come a star out of Jacob
And a sceptre shall rise out of Israel,
And shall smite the armies of Moab,
And destroy all the children of Sheath.
And Edom shall be a possession,
Sir also shall be a possession for his enemies,
And Israel shall do valiantly.'

The shepherd boy slept on these thoughts,
and next mornings woke with them again on
this mind.

He rose from his couch, offered up his
morning prayer, listened for the tinkling of
the bells which told him that the fold was
astir, and leaving his parents still asleep
descended from the housetop and straightway
proceeded to the nearest fold.

As he traversed the plain towards this fold
his practised and powerful eye caught sight

of something in the extreme distance which
was new to him entirely. It was, he thought,
a moving train of Having beings in gorgeous
apparel, in the centre of which was an object
like a sun, so bright was it and so shining,
and from it there seemed to issue filmlike
rays of rainbow colours.

Then he stood transfixed, wondering
whether he should follow this light in its
course ; but while he wondered the gorgeous
train and the star dissolved gradually away ;
dissolved itself into the sky, and ascended to
its own divine sphere.

Filled with wonder, Akiba, after the vision
had passed, hastened to the fold to find his
surprise still further increased.

His frock was there as he had left it on the
preceding night : he counted it, and the number
was correct. The older members of the flock
were moving about, preparing to be let out to
go to the fresh grass by the side of the peaceful
waters, and the little lambs, in groups where
their mothers had left them, were playing their
morning gambols according to their wont.

But now a new sight met him. In the
gateway of the fence lay a little round heap

covered with a robe of rich crimson dye
fringed with a colour that glowed like the
bright sun, as if the sun itself had imparted
to it a portion of his own substance.

It was a Tyrian robe of silk, embroidered in
its centre with a mystical sign and fringed with
golden coloured threads, a shawl or coverlet,
nothing more; but to Akiba, who had ever
been content with his coat of clean sheepskin
and knew no more of silk and gold than he
had read of in the history of Solomon the wise
king, it was a revelation.

He opened the gate of the fold, and
raising the shawl discovered beneath it, sleeping
like a lamb folded in it, a child, a boy child,
clothed in pure white linen and enveloped also
in a robe or mantle of purple with one bright
golden gem shining from his breast.

In his astonishment Akiba raised his eyes
from the little sleeper into the space of sky
above, and once more in the extreme distance,
but now high in the firmament, there
beamed forth the bright light he had seen in
the midst of the shining train, the rays from
which fell down on to the breast of the boy
child, and again dissolved away.

Oh, richness of prophecy ! What the
prophet had foretold had come to pass, and
he, Akiba the chosen one, lived to declare it :

I shall see him, but not now :
I shall behold him, but not nigh.'

Ages had come and gone and the words
were fulfilled. The prophet had seen the one
he predicted, but not in his mortal course : he
had beheld him from that majestic train of
spirits, but not nigh.

It was destined for this shepherd of the
plain first to discover the star of Jacob and
leader of Israel.

Henceforth, simple shepherd, think not
of thyself, but learn and labour to raise thy
people and exalt the star of thy people to its
pre-ordained glory.

To him, Akiba, the fulfilment of the prophecy
was revealed.

His emotion led him for a time away from
himself. Then his reason intervened.

What,' it said, ' what, deluded simpleton,
dost thou mean by this ecstasy ? Seest thou
not that this is a specimen of human flesh
and blood left by some travellers who wish

to conceal it, lose it, forget it, and yet save
it from death. Look thou under that boy
child's shoulder, is there not a pouch stuffed
with money ? Seize thou that, it is thine, and
thou art wealthy as Chuva thy master, for lo !
upon it is written in thine own language : —
For the finder of the treasure." '

And so it was ; there was money of great
value. And notwithstanding his emotion
Akiba, with the true instinct of his race, put
the whole of it into the pouch of his garment.

Also, still influenced by his reasoning power,
he went out of the fold to try and trace on
the ground any sign of foot or wheel that
should tell of human action, in explanation of
the mystery. Either he was blind to such
indications, or the winds had wafted them
all away, and although in breathless haste he
scanned the plain to look for footprints or
signs of wheels, he found none.

As an eagle scans the earth and sky, Akiba
scanned the plain, but lie saw no further sign.

He returned to the fold to find his flocK
now all astir and waiting the guidance of their
gentle master to be led forth for the day. He
let forth the older ones according to his custom,

VOL. I. p

retaining as hostages the lambs, whom their
mothers had fed and to whom they would
certainly return.

This duty done, Akiba had time to attend
to the human lamb that had so mysteriously
dropt into his fold. It was awake now, and
gambolling like its four-legged companions
in their early hours of play, for it was just old
enough to run, with little falls now and again.

When Akiba came to the child and picked
up the shawl that had covered it, it clung
round his legs and tried to hide itself in the
folds, laughing as children of health always
laugh after a night of pure and wholesome
sleep, a laugh that is all joy and gladness,
like the young day itself.

In the heart of the shepherd, a heart as
artless as the heart of his foundling, fondness
soon took the place of amazement. He sat
down on the shawl, rolled himself up in it to
hide himself, pulled the child under it as the
little thing dragged it off him, fondled him
with tenderest embraces, kissed his sweet
lips as he hung round his neck, hugged him,
and rocked him to and fro until he was giddy
with the exercise.

Suddenly the child set up a baby cry, the

meaning of which Akiba had learned from

his lambs. He knew what was asked for,

and words he well remembered came into his

mind : —

When the young ones cry unto God
They wander for lack of meat.'

He carried the little one tenderly to the
house of his father and mother. He showed
them the treasure he had found and the robes
of purple and gold, and their hearts were filled
with joy.

He would now have left the desert, but
Joseph his father and Naomi his mother
had pledged themselves there to remain, and
their word must be their bond. So carefully
concealing his wealth, he remained with them
in the desert of Carmel, tending the flocks of
Chuva, and watching over the new addition
to his flock which had been so mysteriously
added to his care, until his parents were
numbered with their fathers.

After this event had occurred the work of
Akiba as a shepherd was over. He was under
no obligation to remain away from the haunts
of men, and he pined to gain knowledge of all

p 2

men and of all things. When, therefore, the
steward of the merchant of Jerusalem next
came to him, he resigned the stewardship of
the flock, and with many tears left the home
of his birth and early years, so soon as a successor
appeared to relieve him of his duty.

Accompanied by his founding boy, and
carrying with him the rich treasure he had
discovered and which he scorned to touch,
he set forth for Caesarea, on the borders of
the great sea, of which city he had heard most
as the abode of mankind.

They travelled short distances each day,
and coming at length into little villages and
hamlets Akiba found his knowledge of the
Jewish scriptures of the greatest value. The
people heard his reading of the scriptures with
a delight they had never before experienced.
To them the inspired words had been repeated
in the worn-out voices of the synagogue,
in one monotonous tone, with an
assumed air of authority and with lifeless
breath.

Now, they listened to the living word
flowing to them as a river of life moved by a
tongue of fire. The words from his hips had a

new meaning, as of one from the wilderness
declaring the way of the Lord.

He spoke to them through the prophet
Micah, until they trembled as if the prophet
were in very deed and truth before them.
They asked him for explanations, and the
lesson came from him as a natural product
of mind. In many places they would have
held him for life.

And in every place they called him Eabbi,
offering him food at their tables and preparing
for him and his the choicest raiment.

Reflecting on these tokens of recognition
and affection, and accepting them as the declared
signs of a great mission, Akiba conceived
that he beheld still greater signs in the
boy whom he had nurtured. For to this boy,
when he was set up to read a chapter of the
law or of the prophets, the multitude listened
with a hushed wonder, which to Akiba was full
of meaning.

The wonder was due to the fact that one
so young could read so well, and the success
depended really on the skill of the master
who had taught so well. But the master
lead no such belief in himself. He was merely

the instrument, the forerunner. He might bethe
chosen of Israel ; this boy was the chosen
of the chosen.

The boy himself, as he grew in strength,
grew in will and resolution, but it was the
will and resolution of his master, not his own.
Akiba moulded him as a potter moulds the
vessel ; and filling him as far as he could be filled
with his own exalted nature and hope, constructed
for himself an idol at the feet of which
he soon commenced to worship.

My maidens,' interposed Lucilla at this
point, ' when they hear this part of the story
commence sometimes to blame the great Akiba.
I tell them, Nay, blame him not, but let
his action be a guide to you. You set up
your idols. Is it not sweet if one of you have
composed a song to hear another sing it ; or if
One has worked a tapestry for another to wish
to possess it. If one hath built a house is it
not music to hear another praise it ; if one
has made a name is it not the crown of joy
that sons shall carry it on from generation to
generation ? '

Truly, sweet lady, we will find no fault

with thy defence of Akiba,' replied the absorbed
Fortunatus, ' but I yearn to hear the
progress of the story,'

The boy — continued Mar ah in her reading
fed by Akiba with mental as well as bodily
food, became more and more like to him,
except that his talents were all reflected, and
that whatever Akiba told him even of himself
he absolutely believed.

So when Akiba said to him, ' Child of the
desert, Simeon by name, thou shalt not die
until thy mission be fulfilled, for no man
can kill thee,' Simeon accepted the statement
with such perfect faith that he tempted death
and confirmed himself in the belief.

That he was born for some grand purpose
he now knew, and if, like the Elijah of whom
he had read, he were to see a chariot of fire
ready to take him to heaven, he would not be
afraid, but would enter the chariot as if it
were his own.

At last they reached the borders of the
great sea and came to Caesarea.

To the shepherd of the plain the grandeur
of this little place was a marvel. It dazed

his sight, but with its wickedness his heart was
wounded, and with the tyranny of its rulers,
at that time under Trajan, his soul was set on
fire. His impulse was to do as it was written
by his favourite prophet : —

Arise ye and depart, for this is not your rest ;
Because it is polluted it shall destroy you :
Even with a sore destruction.'

Notwithstanding this remonstrance, which
seemed to him almost a command, he waited
in Caesarea for some time, and founded there
a school where many scholars came, and
where Simeon under his ever-watchful eye was
taught all that he could learn. The lad grew
in beauty, and in feats of strength and skill
had no equal in all the city ; he kept also his
own counsel.

So matters progressed well with Akiba ; his
school flourished, he stood guileless and strong.
The child placed under his guidance was good,
and assisted by one of his people, Elkanali byname,
whom he had taken into his school
as a teacher and master, Akiba pursued his
course in peace. He had found rest that was
pleasant, labour that was useful. Was it all
to last ? ;

The God of this fathers ordained it otherwise
according to Iiis divine will. Akiba had
a call, and leaving his school and his child of
the desert to the care of the faithful Elkanah,
he one day went down to Jerusalem.

AKIBA THE VANQUISHED.

Our story takes now a new line. It tells
of a man who has found a new master.

Akiba went down to the Holy City with
conceptions built on the readings of his childhood.
The conceptions filled him with rapture
; the reality smote him to the heart.

He raised his hands in despair.

Is this Jerusalem ?

Where are the gardens, the vineyards, the
mountains of olives, the streets of gold his
ardent youth had pictured ?

Where are the holy places ? Where is the
Temple ? Where is the Ark of the Covenant,
and the Sanctuary ?

Where are the people who walk in righteousness
; the rulers who sit at the gates
giving judgment ; where are they whose feet
are beautiful upon the mountains, who bring
good tidings and good will to men ?

All day, all night, sleepless, hopeless, fasting,
restless, this disappointed child of Israel
traversed the city of his glorious dreams, to
find not one trace of all that he had believed
concerning it.

As the second evening fell he laid himself
down from pure fatigue, to rest at the foot of
a rising ground called Olivet. And he slept,
feeling that all his life had been filled by a
vain thing.

Jerusalem, the Holy City, was not his
Jerusalem. It was morally dead, but not
buried ; with foul wounds of sin, and poisonous
to the soul.

The morning sun roused him back to life.
He rose from the ground, and obtaining a few
olives and a roll of bread from one of the
wretched sellers of food who had come forth
in tattered garments, he fed and returned to
his work of observation.

A more certain enquiry assured him that
he was truly in Jerusalem.

The house of the Eoman governor was now
the chief house of the city. The Eoman
sentinels guarded the dead place as disciplined
mercenaries paid for the duty. Eomans and

Greeks were there, and Jews in abundance :
men, women and children, who bought, sold,
and wrangled with Ethics, Gauls, and other
strangers, all commingled and equally at
home.

He sought for a synagogue, and found it,
but in seeking it found, also, the Eoman temple,
the church of the Galileanss, the school of
the unbelieving Stoics.

Think on it, think on it : false gods, false
faiths, false schools in the city of David and
Solomon !

He passed through a part of the city
where the ruins left by the soldiers of Vespasian
and Titus were still visible, although
many years had passed away. Beneath the
walls he came to a place where some Jewish
women bewailed each day the departed glories,
and his heart, if not his voice, went with them ;
his grief and shame were deeper even than
theirs.

Distributing to these wailers some alms,
he passed on. Wearied, footsore, broken inspirit,
with bleeding soul, he passed on, feeling
that to die with the city of his life were
the happiest fate that could befall him. ^

He woke up from the desolation to catch
a sound of something that rang sweetly, like
music. He found that he had wound his way,
without perceiving the fact, out of the ruined
city into a highway, once the highway of
princes, and still, as it appeared to him,
wishing to be deceived, something beautiful,
a place of fine houses and palaces.

The noise increased ; a noise of the feet of
horses and of tinkling bells ; and soon all that
made it was in sight, a sight the like of which
he had never seen before.

A jet black horse richly harnessed, carrying
silver bells, and stepping proudly, as knowing
that he carried some one of distinction,
led the way.

Around, and running by its side, was a
troop of slaves gorgeously dressed, and hailing
and shouting as they turned their faces to the
rider of the horse, raised their fans of palm-leaves,
and in every gesture and exultation
testified their real or affected delight.

Their delight might indeed be real, for
such a face as that which beamed back upon
them were a joy to behold.

The. face of a woman just within the lines

of womanhood, and animated with all the fire
of youthful beauty.

Her dress was simple, but rich and flowing.
Her outer robe, enveloping her loosely, fell
gracefully to her feet which, clad in sandals
of ivory, held by straps of purple velvet that
enlaced her ankles and ended in tassels of
gold, rested in a pair of bright stirrups, the
left foot a little lower than the right. Over
her shoulders was cast a Tyrian mantle of rich
azure blue, worn cornerwise, so that while
one corner draped each arm, a third fell on
the back of the horse, and the fourth, looped
up, hung over her forehead, permitting to fall
on each side the rich lustrous tresses of her
dark brown hair, through which her ears, like
shells of pearl bearing pendants of diamonds,
peered forth.

Her dark and long arched eyebrows overhung
eyes that were like light itself, so bright,
shadowless, and happy ; for the rest, a gentle
Jewish countenance, supported by an exquisite
neck, encircled by a kerchief of woven silver
tied in a bow which rested on her bosom.

Her arms and hands were free of all encumbrances
save a bracelet of pure malleable

gold, so malleable that it encircled her
right arm from the wrist to the elbow in a
serpentine line. The bracelet was the most
significant of all her splendour. It was a present
that had gained for her a name amongst
the women of Jerusalem which some disdained,
but which all envied.

A greater seeming contrast than she and
the scholar Akiba could not have been found
in all the earth. She all bright and fresh as
the morning ; he all worn, dusty, oppressed
with sorrow, and weary as the night.

Her countenance fell as she gazed on the
scholar and searcher after wisdom.

In Hastening to the stories which had been
related to her about the destruction of
Jerusalem, this child of the place had heard
of one Jesus the son of Ananas, who for a longtime
before the memorable siege had traversed
the city crying an awful cry, and had continued
that cry during the siege until, while uttering
it, a stone from a Eoman catapult struck him
amongst the voiceless dead around him. Was
this man, this picture of woe before her, the
same son of Ananas restored to Hfe ? Would
he begin to cry that bitter cry, ' A voice

from the east, a voice from the west, a voice
from the north, a voice from the south, a
voice from the four corners of the earth crying
Woe ! woe ! woe ! to Jerusalem ' ?

Strangest of strange coincidences, Akiba
had been seized at the moment with an
overpowering impulse to repeat the very-words.
The story was also on his mind,
and he had echoed it but for the sight before
him.

What she, the rich child of Jerusalem,
expected him to say lie herself stopped by
her mere presence, through a rapid diversion
of his thoughts.

She checked the movements of her steed,
and her chain of slaves stood still.

For a moment she averted her head to the
left side from him who stood on her rio^ht, and
holding the white reins in her left hand put
her right hand back towards the pouch suspended
to the saddle as if feeling for some
coins to give, through one of her slaves, to a
mendicant. Then she hastily repented the
act, remained the hold of the reins in herriot
hand, coloured a deep crimson in the face, and
met the flashing gleam of the scholar with a

return shaft keen as an arrow-point, and so
well aimed as to pierce his inmost soul.

A moment more and she rode on, pushing
her steed into a quicker pace, and stooping
down to the chief of her slaves as they got
out of hearing from the stranger, she asked,
with an emotion she could not altogether suppress
: —

Who, Justus, who is that man ? ' But
Justus, the chief slave, knew not, neither did
any of his band.

See,' replied she, with a voice of authority
never to be questioned. ' See that by nightfall
all that can be told of that man be brought
to me.'

Your slaves will lay it at your feet,' and,
without a moment's loss of time, the trustiest
of the band, after a word from Justus, was
receiving his orders to depart into the city.

It is well,' was the response. ' See to it
thoroughly.'

She rode on, but never before in so strange
an ecstasy. Now she paced until the slaves
were breathless ; suddenly she stopped, so
abruptly as to pull her horse back into
the breasts of the slaves who ran behind

her, driving them backwards many feet ;
then, as suddenly, she turned round and in
deep meditation made her way to her own
house.

Surely, thought the slaves, our mistress
hath been be-spirited by that strange man.
And the slaves were wise.

The strange man, himself even more be-spirited,
stood rooted to the spot where the
vision had stopped his exclamations. Breathless,
speechless, sightless, he stood there so
stricken he was glad of the help of a poor
man, to whom the day before he had given
alms, to lead him to an inn.

Who,' he gasped in Hebrew, as his senses
and powers of speech returned, ' who, good
friend of mine in hour of need, who is she who
with her slaves passed us by ? '

She, my son,' replied the kindly guide
in the same tongue, ' she, my son, is the last
remaining link of the royal house of Sala,
an ancestor of our father David. She is the
golden serpent of Jerusalem, the only child
of Chuva, the Princess Tyra. Beware, my
son, of the Princess Tyra the daughter of
Chuva.'

VOL. I. Q

Vain words ! as well tell a man about to
be crucified to beware of the cross.

Their eyes had met and their souls had
mingled.

Love mingles through the eyes, and soul
meets soul there ; my Servien spoke fine
words, but it was his eyes won nie,' once more
interposed Lucilla.

Happy Servien,' smiled out Fortunatus,
but pray thee go on with Akiba and the
golden serpent.'

Me thinks, wise Eoman, thou hast fallen
in love with the mere description of the serpent
of Jerusalem.'

I plead guilty, that I may hear still more.'

Their eyes had met, continued the reader,
and he had been stricken. Nor was he the
first that had been so wounded. The princess
Tyra of the royal house of Sala had gained
a reputation, that had gone far and wide, for
her prowess and skill in languishment.

The Eoman officers at their banquets
drank to her name, the Greek merchants
bought choice jewels far away, the memory
of her the cause of the purchase ; the Jewish
youths looked with envy on the invaders who

sought her hand, some for her wealth and all
for her beauty.

She herself, unconscious of it as it seemed
to those about her, lived on untouched by
the daily adoration. Against her fair fame
not one spoke a word. The old and poor
Jews said she was the golden serpent, not
in blame of her, but as indicating that she
was too wise to be caught by the allurements
before her. They loved her to their hearts'
core, and well they might, for she had no
pleasure so great as that of distributing to
them the wealth of her house. Her slaves
knew every living face in Jerusalem, and
amongst the Jews every house, so that if
want entered a Jewish house, a bearer of
good tidings from the princess was sure to
meet it with befitting aid.

I would rather,' said the Eoman Governor
of Jerusalem, ' be at peace with the Princess
Tyra than have another legion of soldiers,
for she holds the keys of the city.'

Once from the Emperor himself his lieutenant
received a necklace to give to an ally
so courted. She dared not refuse acceptance
of the gift, but in an hour, dismantled and

q2

unrecognisable, it was on its way to Damascus
for sale, in separate parts, for the people of her
blood.

Her ride in the morning on which she met
Akiba was on a mission of goodness. She was
about to visit the oldest representative of the
House of Judah, whose end by length of days
was near, and towards whom she felt it a duty
of respect and dignity to proceed in princely
train.

The visit was one of the visits of her
life, never forgotten, never put off, never
stopped until this day, when to the astonishment
of all her people she returned without
making it, and entering her house straightway
sought her chamber. The astonishment of
her women folk was the more increased when
they were told that the return was caused by
the sight of a stranger to Jerusalem.

She has seen,' they whispered in their
mystical mode of thought, ' she has seen the
face of Israel.'

The excitement calmed down, the slaves
dispersed themselves to their various tasks ;
the attendants resumed their quiet watchings,
but the Princess re-appeared not, and for many

hours the mansion was as silent as a erroneous

O CD

sepulchre. As if afraid to awaken some slumbering
much beloved sick one, the inmates
moved silent of foot, and spoke to each other
in whispers, ready at any moment to obey the
commands of their mistress, yet not daring to
approach beyond the vestibule leading to her
apartments, at the door of which the faithful
Justus reclined and would have remained until
he died had the service been required of
him.

As the evening approached the Princess
re appeared amongst her people. But how
changed !

Her dress, of the purest white, was divested
of every ornament she had been most pleased
to wear. Her voice carried with it a subdued
gentleness and sweetness ; her graces of manner,
modified by some sweet sadness, were entrancing
; her expression formerly commanding,
however gentle, was now of seraphic
beauty, so that they who conversed with her
said to each other, that she must have been
admitted into the company of the heavenly
host and have learned of them.

To some extent these faithful observers

were right in their conjecture. The Princess
Tyra, in the hours of her seclusion, had been
in transporting reverie, according to her belief,
with the seraphic host.

She too had received her call.

The face of Akiba had filled her with
wonder. It filled her soul.

It was a face she had expected to see, and
yet she could recall no one particular moment
of the expectation. It must have been the
face of Israel !

She cast herself on the couch in the quiet
room where she was wont to muse, to read, to
sleep.

How long she remained there she knew not
at the time.

A moment, an hour, a day, a year, an age,
ages of ages !

She knew not.

But this she knew, that however long it
was she rose with the cry : —

Oh that I might thus live on for ever.'

Her reverie was the picture of things unseen,
a revelation as clear as was ever made to
human mind ; for to her doubts and philosophic
questionings were as follies which the

unbelievers believe in their heads and disbelieve
in their hearts. To her primitive faith
God spoke and it was done ; the sea was His
and He made it, and His hand formed the
dry land. He robed Himself in light as with
a garment, and by His angel or His angels,
not by Himself, for He is a spirit, but by them
as intermediaries between His spirit and mortal
flesh. He had revealed himself even to her,
Tyra, the daughter of Chuva and his wife, the
princess of the royal house of Sala.

In that sweet revelation she beheld herself
clothed in white robes standing in what had
been once the Temple of Solomon in all its
glory. In some way, escorted by an angel
visible alone to her, she was in the train of
that great king at the time when, with an
invocation matchless in its poetic fervour, he
opened the house that he had built. She heard
the very words of the king.

The sounds of the voice died away, and she
was alone in the temple. The king, the court,
the musicians, the priests, the servitors were
gone ; the light of day was gone ; the angel
was gone ; but she remained.

In that solemn silence, though she felt not

mortal pain, she knew that she was cold and
by that sense was almost roused to common
life, a fact she afterwards remembered and
which confirmed her faith. It was a passing
moment of terror lest He whom the heaven of
heavens cannot contain should in very deed
appear, and she be consumed by the glory of
His presence.

The terror passed away and was forgotten
in the event which succeeded. In the moment
of her alarm the blue veil of the temple before
which she stood melted into an imperial sky.
The Holy of holies became the firmament ;
the ark was resolved into a cluster of glorious
stars, and the cherubim that guarded it moved
into the mighty space ; the voices of unseen
thousands filled the air with song ; and a
fragrant incense, communicating an ethereal
delight, completed the supreme pleasure of
existence in that new temple in which she,
alone, of all mortals, stood !

Surely one of the angels of light will
speak to her. Surely some voice from the
hosts of the blessed will tel this child of
the earth why she is called and what she is
to do.

No, she is not called by an angel. But
yet is she none the less called.

The majesty of the vision is subdued,
folded as it were into human dimensions. She
is in the temple built with hands once more,
the veil is still raised, the Holy of Holies is
open to her favoured view, the cherubim
spread out their wings over the ark of the
covenant, a heavenly light glows, and before
the ark, clothed in the robes of the high
priest of Israel and prince of his people, is the
stranger, the ran stricken with woe whom she
had met wandering in the street of the city.

In adoration he turns his face to the ark.
He bends as if under the weight of a load
heavier than he can bear. He will fall!
She rushes to save him, but the veil of the
temple descends between them, and with the
cry of joy of which we have already heard,
she is restored to common life and its common
realities.

Truly, sweet lady, I will confide to thee
all the love stories of my history,' murmurs the
delighted Fortunatus, as Marah for a moment
rested from her narrative, ' that thou mayest
embalm them in such choice setting?. I will

be sent down to posterity by thee, a perfect
memory of love, in a sarcophagus of fancy
and a pyramid of fame. Now I presume, in
my earthly fashion, they are going to be
married and for ever happy.'

Anticipate not too rashly. Oh hard philosopher,'
resumed Lucilla. ' But Marah must
read on.'

In time the news was spread abroad
that the golden serpent of Jerusalem had been
charmed and won by the eyes of a poor Eabbi
named Akiba, once the shepherd servant of
Chuva her father. ' And it is as it should be,'
said the weser men of the city, ' since beauty
and wealth are the best friends of wisdom
and knowledge.'

'When the Princess Tyra gives up her rule
in Jerusalem Caesar must send me another
legion,' said the Governor of Jerusalem.

What an ancient fool was I to sacrifice
all my little store to buy a bracelet for that
golden serpent ! ' sighed Dames the Greek
merchant, who with his native craft believed
that the way to win a woman's love was to
bedeck her with rich jewels.

And hundreds of poor hearts throbbed
with fear lest their homes should lose the

light of her countenance and the generosity
of her hand.

And her attendants and slaves whispered
to each other, ' When shall we have another
home like this in the house of our dearest
mistress and friend ? '

With it all there was rejoicing, for the news
of marriage is always the hope of a festival.

The sweet Tyra lived in hope, and Akiba
the scholar waited in its embrace. For the
moment all ambition, all effort of learning was
lost in this blissful swiftly running tide of love.

Alas ! alas ! that such a tide should receive
one moment of interruption.

Yet Fate ordained it, and so it was.

Chuva, the father of the happy maiden,
was away in Tyre, from whence his wealth
was derived. Never doubting his assent, the
Princess, his only beloved child, despatched to
him trusty messengers conveying the news of
her love, the true history of her lover, the
account of his great learning, wisdom, and
goodness, the beauty of his person, and all
else that a fond and spoiled maiden in pangs
of love would, under such circumstances, say
to an adoring parent.

Chuva, when he heard the news, accepted
the message with a rage before unknown by
his oldest friends. He sent back the messenger
hastily with imprecations ; in his great wrath
bade the sweet princess leave his house forthwith
and speak to him no more ; made a new
testament, leaving all his wealth away from
her, and added to the document the blighting
curse of his fathers on her and hers.

The princess received the news in despair.
Then, recovering her fortitude, she clothed
herself in mourning as for one dead, and
sending for Akiba told him all, bidding him
hold her, now no longer a princess but a poor
daughter of Jerusalem, unworthy the love of
one so great and learned and wise as he.

Nay, my greater and dearer love,' exclaimed
Akiba, ' be still mine own. Thy wealth, which I
never wanted nor envied, is dross compared to
thee. Be thou alone the wealth . Thy father's
wealth is the sweeping of the streets ; thou art
the dust of the stars, and more than ever mine.'

What could the Princess Tyra do or say
after such words ?

As may be believed, she left her princely
palace even with joy ; consecrated with simplest

marriage vows her life to her beloved, followed
him, cherished him, and day by day
was more and more enriched by the return of
his affection.

As a teacher Akiba could easily make his
way, so that the princess took not one precious
treasure from her father's house. As her dead
mother had left all in order, so she, disturbing
no single thing, tore herself from her weeping
maids and slaves, and forsaking all others
clung to her bosom lord.

They travelled and taught until they
reached Alexandria, the city of scholars, where
Philonn Judges had lived and written, and
where Jews were esteemed for their wisdom.

In Alexandria there was a grand synagogue
in which, on days of worship, the men
sat apart according to their guilds ; the goldsmiths
in their parts, the coppersmiths in theirs,
the joiners in theirs, the weavers in theirs ;
for Jews always divide themselves into guilds,
and will do so through all time.

At the foot of all the guilds might be seen
those who waited for work, and there Akiba
took his seat.

In the centre the Header, clad in white

vestments, bore the Sudarm, or flag with which
to give the great congregation the signal for
the ringing Hallelujah and the loud Amen.

Above all sat the seventy, the elders of the
people, on seats of gold.

And from her place on the women's side
the lovely Princess Tyra, the beholden of
all beholders, so ravishing was her beauty,
watched her husband sitting humbly at the
feet of the guilds waiting for honest work.

They asked him, when the worship was
over : —

Who art thou and what is thy vocation,
and who is this woman thy wife ? '

It was a mere ceremony, for in truth the
whole story and the fame of Akiba and the
princess had preceded them.

Soon, very soon, Akiba became in Alexandria
the most renowned teacher there ;
learned above all others, and the central occupant
of the golden seat of the synagogue. So
do those that humble themselves become
exalted.

They tarried in Alexandria seven years
and then they returned to Jerusalem, for
Tyra still mourned for her father's love, and

having now a son hoped to win forgiveness, if
not by her own persuasion by that of her child,
who inherited her beauty of person and his
father's intelligent mind.

Entering Jerusalem in the quietest manner
and making themselves known to none of the
people, Tyra with her son sought her father's
house, and communicating her wishes to the
faithful servants, whose love she had never
lost, stood before Chuva, her sire, and placing
her child also before him prayed his pity, his
forgiveness, and his blessing.

It was a pleading one would have thought
that no man could have resisted, and when
the child raised his ruby lips, and put out his
little hand, Chuva was indeed touched to the
heart by both child and grandchild, for these
were all the living wealth that he possessed.

But he was a Jew, and a Jew, it is declared,
never forgives.

He sent them both from his presence, or
rather he withdrew from them. He left them
in their tears and sobs on their knees, and
entered the court of his house where strangers
wait, meaning to take the air and recover his
anger and cool his rebellious heart.

In the outer court of his house he found, to
his surprise, a stranger of noble build, tall and
motionless, before whose searching glance yet
gentle expression he, Chuva, shook and trembled.


Stricken with the superstition common to
worldly minds, the old man, in the suddenness
of his wonder, believed that he was visited by
some being of supernatural gifts and power.

'What asketh my lord of his servant?'
gasped the affrighted merchant. 'Ask only
and thou shalt have.'

I ask for nothing,' replied the visitor, ' I
come to claim my own. Akiba waits to remove
from hate to love his wife and son.'

In Magnes there is said to be an earth or
stone that draws to it or repels from it, as it
wills, all of its kind that are near to it ; and
amongst men there are they who have the
power of that stone.

Akiba was a prince of the power, and
Chuva was under his magical spell. Had he
dared, Chuva would have thrown himself on
the breast of his conqueror ; as it was, he fell
at his feet, but, raised by the strong and
loving arms that soon surrounded him, he

very quickly discovered himself the centre of his
three children, they the objects of his proud
admiration, and he of their united love.

Chuva revoked the will he had made, left
all his treasures to Akiba the wise, and therewith
crowned the success of him who afterwards
entered Paradise, and who is now the
chief of his people, for though learning be
ever so great, wealth well-spent will make it
greater.

But, as it is written, ' Boast not thyself of
tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day
may bring forth ; ' so whilst Akiba and his son
were away to visit Alexandria a plague struck
the holy city, and when on his return he
landed here at Joppa a messenger met him
to tell him that both Chuva and the Princess
Tyra were in the home of the departed, that
their last breaths had carried his beloved
name, and that their last hopes were that he
would pray for them, that they might be set
free from the prison where the souls of the
dead, purified from their sins, are made fit
for the kingdom of heaven.

We have a promise that when the gates

VOL. I. R

of heaven are shut to prayer they are open to
tears, and in that promise Akiba found relief
for his bursting heart. Then followed the
prayer which the Eomans know not, the prayer
that is only Israel's weapon, a weapon tried
in a thousand battles, a weapon inherited from
the fathers of Israel.

And Akiba taught his little son that prayer
which Israel ever repeats when the good die
and the earth loses them : —

Blessed is the righteous judge'

To Jerusalem Akiba bent his way, to find
his home still a house of mourning. But
when he had performed all the rites of holiness
and honour to his lost ones, he came back
to Joppa as to the place of his call, that he
might here obey the word, and find peace in
his sorrow.

Honour the sons of the poor, for it is they who
bring knowledge into glory.

And by these words Akiba lives to this hour.

A strange, strange history,' observes
Fortunatus as Marah's voice ceases. ' But
what, I pray thee, was the fate of the founding
who brought Akiba his first treasure ? '

Ah, thereby hangs a mystery that even
Lucilla cannot solve, nor Akiba himself,' broke
in the matter-of-fact Servien, who having
finished his inspection had rejoined the listening
group. ' When Akiba, after his tour of
love had ended, went with his wife to Caesarea
to fetch the boy, in whose fate her woman's
heart was moved, it was not to be found. The
very house in which he had been left was
rased to the earth ; the school was no more.
All that could he learned was that a rather
sharp Jewish quarrel, in some way connected
with the synagogue, had arisen in Caesarea ;
that some Jews of Jerusalem and some Jews
of Samaria had disputed for possession of the
synagogue ; that a Eoman force had quelled
the disturbance, not without bloodshed, and
that when all was over, the master of the
school, connected with the place, who had
played a leading part in the disturbance as a
Jew of Gahlee, and who more than once before
had made himself most objectionable and rebellious
to the power of Caesar, was crucified,
and that all who belonged to-him had disappeared
for ever.

There is a rumour that Trajan himself,

K 2

who was at that time in Jerusalem, had some
hand in this affair, for reasons more weighty
than at first sight would appear. But this has
now become an old wife's story, well-nigh
forgotten or treated as fable.'

As the night is far advanced and Servien
is weary, the friends separate for rest and
sleep, and Fortunatus, with a courteous farewell
to his hostess and host, seeks his chamber.

Yet long after he is ensconced in that
quiet retreat he recalls the story he has heard,
for he was in feared when Trajan was at
Jerusalem, and if some advice he then gave
had been followed, many events which have
been related in these pages, with many which
have to follow, had never occurred, and this
record of them had never been written.

So true it is that the smallest incidents of
one age may extend through ages, and that
there is nothing human, however little, that
may not leave a permanent mark in the book
of humanity.

CHAPTER XV

SCHOLARS AHEAD.

The day following upon the recital of the history
of Akiba the Wise by the wife of Servien,
was rapidly passed by her exemplary husband
in the company of his friend and visitor,
the learned and accomplished Fortunatus, in
inspecting the towers and places of strength
of Joppa, the legion that was stationed there,
the armoury, the weapons, the shipping, and
the surrounding country.

Servien had now his history to tell ; how
Cestius the Eoman general, during the time
of the Jewish revolt in the reign of Nero, had
taken Joppa by a combined movement on sea
and land, had destroyed eight thousand of its
people, and had laid the place waste ; how it
then became the centre or home of a piratical
navy, which made the sea from Egypt to Tyre,
and even across to the isles of Greece, dangerous,

if not impassable ; how Vespasian, in
his time, sent a force which drove the pirates
to their ships on the sea, out of the reach of
the Eoman darts ; how ' a black north wind '
forcing the pirates back upon the rocks, left
them so much to the mercy of their enemies
that they were destroyed by thousands, many
falling upon their own swords, so that the sea
was reddened for some miles with their blood ;
how Vespasian determined, upon this recapture
of the place, to make it a strong Eoman
fortress or camp, and left there many horsemen
and some foot, who laid bare the country
all round about ; and how, for a long period,
the town remained nothings more than a solitary
place of Eoman soldiery.

But Servien had also a later story to tell.
He told that the number of ships from the
Great Sea still so continuously put in to Joppa
that, in spite of Eome, it became once morea
port or gateway to Jerusalem ; that Greeks
and Eomans, as well as Jews, frequented it ;
that in time the Jews from Phoenicia and
Egypt and other parts of the world settled
there under Eoman rule ; that with their
usual genius the Jews brought trade, money,

and wealth to the spot, together with much
hearing and life ; and that, giving up all
thoughts of war, they had turned the reconstructed
place, mainly by the influence of
Akiba, into a great school, to which over
twelve thousand scholars resorted, to pass
from it, by its ready exit, to the schools of
Alexandria, Athens, and Eome itself, bearing
forth their learning, and bringing back the
learning of other peoples and lands.

Thou art as great an enthusiast, my Ser-view,
about these Judea as thy wife,' observed
Fortunatus, ' and, in truth, thou hast measured
them correctly ; they are traders in wisdom as
well as in money. But art thou sure about
their Iciyalty ? These weapons they forge for
thee, hast thou confidence that thou art the
only keeper of all that are made ? '

Confident,' replied Servien. ' They make
the weapons at Akiba's forges, not by multitudes
of men working there, but by a very few
students at a time, as a pastime of the schools,
and under the eye always of our centurions,
as thine own eyes shall witness.'

Not a bench, not a class, not a work,
mental or physical, of the great school of

Akiba at Joppa escapes the observation of
Fortunatus.

A poor soldier compared with Servien, he
is a better soldier here. His tablets fill as he
passes from one part to another. He will
show the tablets to Caesar; he will perhaps
show them to the world, publish them if he
shall live. His sentences are of necessity brief,
but, as may be seen in the specimens below,
are sufficient to help his memory, as so many
rests for it, when he shall sit down in his study
in his garden at Eome in sweet retirement.

Excerpts from the Note-book of Fortunatus of
Rome respecting Joppa and the Jews there

IN THE REIGN OF THE EmPEROR HaDRIAN.

The common statement that there are twelve thousand
scholars at Joppa under Akiba the Wise is less than the
fact.

There are two hundred youthful Jews in each class,
and there are seventy-two classes, after their mystic
number.

The youths are all strong and thoughtful, they fill
up half the day at their books, the rest in bodily exercises
or manual labour.

They march, and run, and obey words of command
like men of war, but Servien wisely allows them no
weapons, they may not even discharge a bow, though they
themselves have made it.

They write with a stylus half a cubit long, which

they carry in their girdles point upwards, so that it maybe
distinguished from a dagger. Why so long 1

They have remarkable skill in the manufacture of
weapons. In every school there is a forge at which they
make, each day, a sword, a bow, a javelin, and a spear,
without interfering with the ordinary work of learning.

They make armour also, helmets, breastplates, and
chainwork, with fine skill.

In an emergency they could equip a thousand soldiers
a week.

Sei-view only allows one class a day to make weapons,
all of which weapons are removed as they are finished.

Servien directed that one class should make before
us a bow, a sword, a shield, and a javelin. Four sets of
the youths were put to the task, seven to the bow, seven to
the sword, seven to the shield, and seven to the javelin.

These Jews do everything by sevens. Why i

They sing in turns, during their work, some sacred
song that bears on what they are doing.

The youths we met sang sayings taken from their
books as they worked, according to the labour. Thus :

*' Iron is taken from the earth.

" Brass is melted out of stone.

" Iron sharpened iron, and the face of a man that of
his friend.

" Og, king of Bashan, lo his bedstead was of iron ;
nine cubits long, and four cubits broad.

" Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron."

Then they sang some weird prophecy about a great
king who saw a great image with feet of iron, that was
smitten by a stone cut without hands. The image
represented some kingdom which the stone should crush.

The work proceeded with the singing. They gave to
iron a spring, and a bow was wrought out of such iron,
and a sword like the finest of the east ; the sword bent

like the bow ; and a javelin, made for Servien, was cast by
him full fifty footsteps, into a figure of wood shaped like
a man.

These youths obey their superiors like soldiers.

They make the sun their fellow-workman.

They build and furnish their own habitations, and
earn their own bread.

They are taught leech-craft and other useful callings,
'* because," say their fathers, " a man who fails to give his
son a trade maketh him a rogue."

Would that our Koman fathers believed and practised
the same rule.

They share equally each other's goods, and him that
would be greatest amongst them they make the least,
because their scripture tells them that a good name is
choicer than riches ; that the rich man is wise in his own
conceit ; but, that the poor man, who has understanding,
finds him out.

'Would that our Koman youths were taught such
wisdom.

They are expert as fishermen.

They make their own bread and raiment.

They drink no wine. Wine, they are told in one of
their proverbs, is a mocker.

They learn every tongue.

They are sent forth to gain more knowledge.

And they worship day and night the God of their
fathers, declaring boldly that He, one God, is alone to be
worshipped.

They abhor graven images, and will rather die than
worship them.

They obey the laws of Caesar, but will not bow down
nor burn incense before his image, because they say their
God is a jealous God, and visits the sins of the fathers on
the children to the third and fourth generation.

Their God has no form, and no image of Him exists.
Enquiring his name, they refuse to pronounce it because
it is too sacred to be uttered. He, they say, is a spirit
whom no one hath seen ; but his angel or intermediate
may communicate with man, and his own spirit fills man.

They keep holy the seventh day of the week. They
have daily prayers and services, each hour of the day being
set apart for some particular service.

These religious rites Servien is instructed by Caesar
not to interrupt, so the youths grow bold. They meet in
their synagogues ; they sing a sacred hymn ; they read, in
turn, lessons from their scriptures ; they offer up prayers
to their Creator; they chant psalms; they make responses
; and they listen to their rabbis who preach to
them from a tribune or from the altar. All this they are
permitted to do, but one thing Servien will not allow
them to do, because it would put them in possession of
knives, axes, and other weapons : they may not offer up
the bodies of animals to their deity, no, not even at festivals.


But on festival days they are allowed to burn the
fat of animals, as candles, with incense, at the altar, by
which they raise a savoury and sweet odour with fire
and smoke. A symbolical sacrifice for which they are
grateful.

The priest stands before the altar, wearing twelve
jewels on his breast, and richly robed. The singers in
white robes stand behind the priest before the altar.
They all turn to the east when they pray, and they all
kneel when the commandments of their early prophet are
declared from the altar.

Once yearly they hold a " passover," or religious
feast in remembrance of their great deliverance from
Egypt.

Once yearly they have a day for atonement of

their sins, when they sit all day in the synagogue and
confess their sins with many prayers, and count their
prayers with beads, which they carry round their necks.

'Like the Egyptians, they bury their dead. Questioned
as to the souls of their dead they are mysterious,
but speak of some prison or place of purification, and say
it is good for the living to pray for the deliverance of the
dead from it.

Pressed on the question whether they expect a new
deliverer to arise amongst them as a Messiah, which is
always laid to their charge, they answer invariably in
the same significant words: "The Holy One of Israelis
our law-giver, and Caesar is Caesar. The will of the
Holy One be done on earth as it is in heaven."

From the uniformity of this saying they must have
been trained to declare it.

Many of these questions and answers amused Ser-view,
because he, who has married one of their blood, a
wife to whom he is childishly devoted, thought I had met
my masters in wisdom.

I, Fortunatus, think so too ; but it is Servien, and
not I, who may find out the truth of it most speedily.

One thing these Jews proved to me by their lives,
that work of the limbs and work of the mind go well
together, as Plato has taught in his book, the " Times." '

To the refined and observant Fortunatus,
who had visited every part of the Eoman
world, these Jewish schools are in fact a
model, and his praises of them are as warm as
they are cautious and discreet. He determines
that, if life be spared him, he will master these
schools and their mysteries. What is the

book of which in every school he hears so
much ? He questions Servien, who knows no
more of it than the mere mechanical facts that
seventy or seventy-two Jews, all considered as
scholars of highest rank, are at work upon it
under the chief, Akiba ; and that to the thousands
of youths in the schools it is a book the
treasuring of which and the copying of which
keeps them out of mischief towards Eome and
his legion.

Fortunatus hears the words of Servien
with all respect, but does not accept them as
final.

Fortunatus has been a student of the stirring
history of Babylon. He recalls how under
a Babylonian captivity the Jews ceased to be a
savage and learned to be a wise and cultured
race, yearning still for home yet loving their
enlightened captivity. He has heard that when
they returned from their captivity and reentered
into possession of their promised land,
they were not the Jews of old, but that their
mind was set on a new reading, interpretation,
and preservation of their ancient and sacred
records. And now, with their new order of
thought, he discovers them re-editing, so to

speak, the book of the Word, the Book of the
world, the book of Truth.

Would that he, a born son of nature, a
philosopher, could join in the labour.

Servien is much amused at his absorption
in such nonsense.

Ah, my Servien, keep thou these Jews in
their place under Caesar, watch them with an
ye as vigilant as that of an eagle waiting for its
prey, for they, from their earliest times, have
been taught of the serpent, and creep noiselessly
at your feet until they grip you. They
have the art of charming you by their gentleness
and beating you by their subtlety. Be ever
on thy guard, but say not one word against
their sacred writings and treasures of wisdom,
for in them is the secret of everlasting knowledge
and wisdom.'

My wife, whom I have named Lu cilia,'
muses Servien, ' says these same sayings, which
is not strange, seeing that she is born of this
people. But that a learned Eoman should
repeat her words is, like the very books of
these Jews, a mystery. I care not to fathom it.
If the worst come to the worst, I will make
short work of it. I will burn every rag of a

book that Caesar may reign, Lucilla and Fortunatus
notwithstanding.'

With curious insight Fortunatus reads the
mind of his honest and resolute friend.

Thou thickest, Servien, if the books of
these Jews led to revolt what a fire they would
make at thy bidding ? '

'My very thoughts.'

Thou art bold, Servien, but this were
beyond thy power. Amidst thunders and lightnings
which our Jove himself could not raise,
the first of those books came to these Jews.
Their God spoke to them His own commandments.
I know the story, and the name of the
Jew who wrote the words on tablets of stone.
What one of the masters pronounced in the first
school I understood, and why the scholars bent
so low when he added :

" Fear God and keep his commandments."
And do not unto another what thou wouldst
not have another do to thee."

'Those are open sayings, old and true,
which their sages have taught, but they have
others more secret, and that have most to do
with thee. Jerusalem, they say, was won by
Vespasian because the young were not taught.

The world is saved by the breath of the young.
These are the lessons of the schools we have
visited, and though thou burn all their books,
my noble Eoman, they will rise again.'

And thus in friendly controversy the two
sworn friends, so different in nature, the one
root and branch a soldier, the other root and
branch a scholar, spent their day, surveying
Joppa, its schools, its forts, its streets, its
bazaars, its quays, its ships, its peoples of
Greeks, Eomans, Jews, Egyptians, Syrians.

All the world of Joppa and its inevitable
wife.

Leaving them so occupied, let us, by a
return flight to Britain, re-seek our heroes
there, and firstly him who, to please a Roman
mob, ran for his life as a pillar of fire, and was
saved from the burning.

CHAPTER XVI.

IN HAPPY FLIGHT.

Simeon and his two friends, the handsome
chieftain and his lovely child, made quick footsteps
over another ascent, which leads them
still farther from the Roman camp ; and here
the wise guide once more takes counsel of
himself.

Some wild and cruel rollers from the
camp may follow us, he argues, or even a
number of armed men may follow us, and
seizing us take us back into the furious claws
of the enemy from which we have escaped !

To Simeon these apprehensions are as so
much idle wind. He has retained beneath
the sackcloth in which he had been enveloped
his trusty sword or falchion, and woe to a
dozen follicles or others who come beneath
its swing. Moreover, he who has already

VOL. I. s

escaped such great dangers will escape all.
Such is his destiny.

The Philosopher Hastens and marvels ; but
learning soon, with practised skill, the mind
and character of this singular youth he proceeds
to influence him in the only way in
which he is open to reason.

It is a circumstance as curious as it is
natural both to him and to his child, whom
he calls by the name of Erine Leoline, that
this youth whom they have so far saved is
now dedicated to their solemn charge. It is
a feeling which all who have once befriended
him feel ever afterwards. That also is his fate.

His new mentor quickly reading his character,
proceeds to act upon him rapidly and
effectively ; and soon the stubborn nature is
subdued by so wise and gentle a counsellor.

'Thou art here, good Simeon,' he answers,
for such thou tallest me is thy name ; thou art
here and the Mighty One whom thou serves
has need of thee ; but wisdom must temper
courage, and what fate thickest thou will
befall thine unhappy friends should Eoman
hands fall upon us ? Thou mayest be under
divine protection, we are certainly not so

favoured. Thickest tlioii this child of mine,
so frail, so fair, will escape their penalties and
their pleasure ? '

The words are enough.

The God of my fathers hath given me
over to thy safe keeping,' was his reply :
henceforth thou shalt do with me as thou
desires. I will call thee Leon, and will obey
thee as if I were another child of thine.'

Thou art wise, my son, as thou art bold.
They who sought thy life do not mean thee
to escape. They wait only to drink wine ere
they pursue thee. Thou hast refused to offer
up incense to their king, thou art an arrow in
the side of their second king or Governor, and
they are too strong even for thee when force
alone is master. We, therefore, will try the
wisdom thou dost not despise.'

They are now on a plain, proceeding as
swiftly as their feet can carry them, one on each
side of him whom we with Simeon shall henceforth
call Leon. So led they proceed towards
the west guided by the reading of the stars,
until they come to a deserted native hut of
rather considerable size, with other smaller
huts, equally deserted, clustered near to its

2

It is a hut made of earth and poles and straw.
Into the earth a large scoop or opening has
once been cut ; the earth has been thrown upon
all sides, except the southern side, facing
the sun, to form a wall or bank ; into the
bank poles have been planted so as to meet
m a point at the centre ; around these poles
stubble or thatch has been attached to make
a roof; within the hut at the farthest extremity
from the sloping southern entrance a
hearthstone has been erected, and therewith
the home of the native Briton has been made
complete.

The combination of huts formed once a
native village. It was the seat of a chief, and
was surrounded altogether by an embankment
of earth.

Some years ago it was the scene of a great
ficrht ; the Eoman soldiers on their march
through the country westward came upon it,
met with a resistance altogether unexpected,
and in revenge, when they became victors,
slew every man, woman, and child of the place,
leaving the dead to bury the dead.

In that village of desolation no one ever
afterwards dwells.

It is a haunted desolation. Eoman and
Briton alike view it, from the distance, with
equal superstition and fear.

Fortunately it has not escaped the notice
of the observant Leon. He passed it but a
day or two ago, went into it alone ; read in the
remains he found there its history, and now
again approaches it as a trap laid for his pursuers
should they follow in his wake.

Nature has been more bountiful than man
to this unfortunate nest of death ; she has
wept over it with her genial showers, and her
wild briars and dog roses have covered it in
so as finally to bury it in beauty. Here the
birds build their nests, and here the dead leaves
of the plain, wafted to the spot, cover up the
skeletons of the slaughtered men, women, and
babes.

Leon has surveyed the place, and has
gratefully thanked the supreme power he
worships that no such nest of desolation
could be found in all his own peaceful land.

He brings his companions to a rest here
while he explains to them his design.

Breaking through the long grass which
obstructs the entrance to the chief hut, and

lighting his way with a luminous point which
he has struck from a kind of rod carried ina
wallet, by his side he comes upon what he
expected, the bones of one of the victims of
the fray. There are few of them, for wild
beasts have carried many away, but what
remain are sufficient for his purpose.

With quick and precise skill he spreads
out quickly at the entrance of the hut a bed
of leaves, loose wood, and thatch torn from the
slanting and decaying roof; and, on this bed
he lays the bones in natural order, as if a man
making for the interior of the hut had fallen
down headlong at the entrance.

Eeturning now to Simeon whom he has
left a little distance off, he removes from his
body the sackcloth with which he is encased,
places that in naturally fitting parts with the
bones, and taking from him also his sword
puts that on the bed of leaves on the left side
of the remains of mortality.

Next he throws on more dry wood,
leaves and thatch, and having quite completed
this part of his task, he, by some skilful
method, noiselessly drives his pointed rod into
a flame and sets the heap he has made on fire.

A sandal from the right foot of Simeon is
finally made to burn until it is well scorched,
is extinguished when half burnt away, and is
laid a few yards in front of the blazing pyre,
which they quickly leave behind them, to
pursue a course westward but bearing a little
to the north.

The fire, extending from the bed of leaves
and wood and thatch to the chief hut, is carried
to the other huts, and sets the whole of the
ruined encampment into a magnificent blaze,
visible for miles around.

The device is none too speedily executed ;
for the fugitives have but just sufficient time to
reach a little wood, in which they lie concealed
from the light shed by the fire, ere the Eoman
cavalry who left the encampment at the close
of the revelry are at hand. The clatter of the
hoofs of their horses is heard distinctly, as they
are making for the fire.

The fugitives have not been seen by the
pursuers, for the attention of every soldier has
been fixed on the burning villajj^e.

But we, who have better eyes, are privileged
to see an earlier messenger, on foot, who
has witnessed every movement, every device,

and who lies on the ground between the
pursued and the burning village concealed
perfectly himself and yet discerning all that
transpires.

He is light of heart, for he has learned
what none but one must know. His divine
mistress, who has cast out from him the evil
one, who has given him life, honour, duty, she
alone must know. It is his first service for her.

The troops approach and gallop round
the fire ; first at a distance from it, for their
horses, unaccustomed to so strange a sight,
must be taught, gently, to draw near. In time
they form a cordon around, from which not
even a fox could escape without notice.

For indeed a fox, leaving her litter that
she may survey the chances of escape, is perceived,
is hooted back to the lair of her loves,
and dies with them.

The ring of soldiery completed, the leader
of the party with some of lesser degree dismount,
and leaving their horses in charge of
their men approach towards the chief entrance
of the burning place. They pick up something
that arrests their keen attention. They
examine it together with nodding mystery.

A half-burnt sandal : the very sandal the
Jew wore in the arena.

He ran until the fire caught his foot and
then he fell. They will now find his remains.
The fire is becoming much subdued. They
lash together two javelins, and rake the fire at
the entrance until they spread out what is left
of the bed which Leon had constructed. They
strike some solid thing and pull it out. It
is a skull, black and burned into holes, but a
skull. They strike more solid things, bones !
bones ! bones ! They strike something that
sounds on the iron head of the javelin like
iron itself. Iron strikes iron. They drag outby
the hook attached to the javelin that which
is struck : it is a short sword, red-hot. Let it
cool in the open air, until some one can touch
it.

They are so impatient they would almost
run the risk of burning their fingers in order
to examine it. At last the captain of the
troop ventures to lift it. They light him with
a torch brought from the fire.

It is unquestionably the sword of the Jew
Simeon. One of them knows it, for he has held
it often in his hand, and it has the peculiarity

that its handle is made of ebony. A portion
of this handle is undestroyed and is ebony.

What can be clearer ?

One thing more completes the find. The
soldier with the javelin has dragged out a piece
of sackcloth which is rotten with the fire and
yet not consumed. It is a part of the sackcloth
steeped in bitumen in which Simeon
was enveloped before he ran as the living
torch for the amusement of the people.

The chain of evidence is perfect. The
living torch ran blindly into the plain until
he accidentally caught sight of what, in the
gloom, seemed to him a native village, where
he might find succour. Before he reached
the entrance the fire burned off his sandal,
and so injured his foot that he fell at the gate
of the place, fell there a blazing heap, and
setting fire to the nest of desolation perished
with it.

To-morrow, by daylight, more remains maybe
found ; there is sufficient evidence for this
time. They may return to the camp. They
fix the skull on the head of the javelin that
has been in the fire. They tie the long bones
round the shaft of it. They tie together the

short sword, the sandal and the sackcloth, and
give over all these relics to a centurion for
safe keeping.

The trumpet gives the note to resume
marching order, and the order is obeyed like a
natural law. The officers remount ; the chief
and his staff drop into their places in the rear,
and gaily discussing the details of their expedition
follow their men back into the encampment,
just as the first light of day is
exposing the departed glories of the night of
revelry.

The pursuit over, the fugitives, resting
awhile, prepare to continue their journey.
Simeon is girt with new sandals, taken by
the careful Leon from his never-failing wallet,
which yields also food of a kind Simeon has
never tasted before, and which gives him new
strength. Water they find in a rivulet they
have to cross, and full of energy they travel
on. Leon leads, with the hand of Erine in his,
and Simeon travels by their side.

With the first appearance of the glorious
sun Leon and his child offer up their devotions
to the mighty Power who refills the world with
life.

Simeon also in his way adores the God of
his fathers.

As Leon and Erine return to him in the
Hght of the sun, which now, just above the
horizon, forms a background to their forms,
they seem to him still like two celestial beings.
His sight is dazed, and he would fall on his face
before them did they not each take his hands,
Leon his right, Erine his left hand, and hft him
from the ground.

Surely, he thinks, they have come out of
the sun and their voices are voices of angels.

They are indeed sent for his deliverance.

They wander on in the early dawn until
they reach a deep and long valley which,
filled with mist painted by the rays of the
sun, looks to them as a sea of molten gold. Out
of this sea the tops of the trees stand like ships
on the ocean to which the moving mist gives
the appearance of motion. The trees bend in
graceful action to the wind, and appear to sail
along in a current swift and glorious.

To Simeon and Erine the idea that they
have reached the shores of a golden ocean is
too delightful to be repressed. They run along
the ridge of the hill on which they are placed.

They take each other's hand like children
as they are, and return to Leon, their faces
bright as the scene around them.

Oh, father mine ! ' cries Erine, ' is this the
sea where our faithful crew will meet us ?
surely it will carry us to realms of heaven.'

Or to the city of Zion,' exclaimed Simeon,
whence my people came whom I am to
restore.'

Sit down, my children, sit down and let
me tell you the truth. This sea is a mirage,
the sun god on high playing with the sons of
men. See you not that the sea sinks, that yon
sailing object, as it seems to us, moves more
slowly, grows taller, becomes what it is, a
tree. The sea sinks, no, the vapour rises and
the winds clear it away. The bed of the sea
becomes a valley, a valley full of trees, and
meadows, and flowers and sward.

Now there is no more sea.'

And while he speaks what was a golden
ocean a few minutes before, full of life and
motion, is a quiet valley filled with light alone.

For a moment the hearts of the townspeople
are cast down, but soon their loniyino-
vision is cheered with a new and equally

beautiful sight. The valley seems to expand,
to open at its farther extremity, and to allow
mountains far away to show their blue crests
like pinnacles piercing the skies from which
their colours are derived.

Soon also in the distance they catch sight
of another new object, a river which beyond
the gorge of the valley, on its western side,
winds its way like a vein of pure silver let
into the earth. Upon this streak of silver Leon,
by some process unknown to Simeon, takes his
observations. With steady and precise care he
measures the intervening space ; from a dial
with a moving hand, he determines the direction
in which he wishes to move ; and, fully
prepared for the journey he has in view, he
once more leads them on.

It is a day of rapture, a day in which by
that youth and maiden, a life of life is lived.

The noble Leon leads them towards some
place he has definitely in view : but gentle
Erine Leohne, lioness with a woman's heart,
whither hearest thou the son of destiny ?

They traverse the ridge of the valley
towards the west, and in a short time approach
a forest, above which on one side is a

rising ground overlooking the forest itself and
all around it.

Ascending this height Leon proceeds to
wield another power. By the movement of a
bright metallic plate he casts a sign or beacon
towards the distant river, but now broader and
better defined. In return there falls upon himself
flashes of light like rays of the sun, which
communicate by some hidden language a reply
to what he has asked to know.

At length to Erine, who stands by accustomed
to watch the proceeding and prepared
for a message, he tells what he has learned.

Our faithful servants and the caravel lie
safely concealed at the point where yon silver
stream bends to the north-west. We are four
leagues away, and between us and them in a
straight line there are two Eoman encampments.
We must take to the woods, and by a
two days' circuit we shall reach our destination
unperceived. I have signalled that in two
sunsets we shall be with them, and they are
content.'

Descending from their height they enter
by a ravine into a splendid forest, which they
traverse with a new pleasure. Now they

wander through labyrinths of darkness ; then
they enter ito a glade in which a natural
temple is produced before them. They cross
it reverently, in a gloom almost as profound
as night itself; but Leon has a light to help
them and bids them not to fear. He goes
before, and Simeon and Erine, hand in hand,
follow, and are afraid.

Afraid, not of the gloom of the glade but
of the coming time when their hands, so firmly
and innocently clasped, must part sweet company.


They listen to a sound, the soft tinkling
of a bell or a chime. They step forward more
carefully and softly as through the trees the
rays of light are glinting faintly. The light
increases in fulness, and suddenly they enter
a natural citadel as it seems to them, a citadel
cut out of the midst of the forest, but, except
for the musical sounds, quiet as a sepulchre.

Into this place of dazzling splendour the
sun beams with all his might ; before them,
at a distance of some hundred feet, is a mountain
of stone like a mound, with a fountain
at its top and a pool surrounding it at its
base. From the fountain water falls in replete

into the pool below, and the resonant pile
gives out the sound like a chime of melodious
bells. They ascend a rock on the side of this
natural tower, and see, in full, the beauty of
the spot. Leon explains that the central
mound of stone from which the water runs
over was once the mouth of a volcano, by
which all this place was originally cleft. The
mouth of the crater has long been closed at its
lower part, and a spring of water derived from
the higher surrounding rocks has found its
way by a subterranean channel into the open
basin, whence, at times, the water flows over
into the Httle moat below, from which it finds
a passage into the earth again. That Httle
accident keeps, he says, this otherwise dead
spot of earth alive. The water falls over, casting
up spray, the sun converts the spray into
vapour, the vapour descends in mist and dew
when the sun goes to rest, and so seeds and
trees and mosses and shrubs find their nourishment
and thrive luxuriantly.

The foxgloves specially, with their exquisite
forms and colours and drooping bells,
please the young pair.

Admire but touch not, my children ; in

VOL. I. T

that plant lies concealed what would kill all
your admiration. The learned Greeks have
called it the plant which kills the heart.'

Around this volcanic pit or basin of rocks
shrubs, ferns, and trees grow, leaving between
them and the central mound a walk of white
smooth stone, like marble, from which running
into the side of the rocks are caves of great
depth and varied shape. Birds nestle and
sing in the shrubs, and now and then a startled
rabbit rushes forth, and sitting on the top
of a rock looks round in wonder that his
quiet home should be molested. But there
is no sign of any wild or dangerous animal.

They enter a cave which faces the sun in
his glory, breaking before them the shrubs and
briars which obstruct the entrance.

The cave is cut and arched as if it had
been the work of the most skilled architect.
It is grooved within into a kind of horizontal
spiral, from which chambers jut out at graceful
angles. The first of these chambers and
the largest is so near the chief entrance it is
lighted to the highest point of a roof which
seems to be made up of the bodies of animals
in petrified forms, extant and motionless forages.

Its floor is of the same white veined
stone as that of the pathway outside. In the
convulsion of nature which made all the place
that floor and path were once a molten lime
which cooled into level solidity and now les
frozen eternally. With these natural wonders
Leon is transported, but, seeing how wearied
his companions are, he prepares for their refreshment
and repose. What he does Simeon
watches with liveliest interest, but no longer
with wonder. His mind is at ease. This man,
this girl, are his ministering angels. If they
turn the very stones into bread it will be
no marvel to him now ; the thing would be
done for him in pursuance of the decrees which
have sent him forth.

Stones are not turned into bread, but
food is soon prepared. They traverse the
paths of the rocks, and from certain of the
plants which Leon points out they pluck
the fruit. They gather from the earth some
sweet smelling herbs which he recognises as
edible ; they turn a large hollow shell like
a piece of rock into a pitcher which they fill
with water from the falling streamlets in the
central pile; and, so enriched, they return

T 2 .

to the cave, where Erine soon lays out the
choicest repast the enthusiastic Simeon has,
he thinks, ever seen ; a repast to which Leon,
from his matchless wallet, adds cakes for food,
and silver cups for holding the water that
quenches their thirst.

On the floor of the cave Simeon and his
leader make seats out of the loose stones,
covering the seats with the mosses which
grow so luxuriantly amongst the rocks around.
And thus prepared they break their long fast.

They form a mystical group. In each
there is of its kind a surpassing beauty. Erine,
sitting a little raised between the two men, is
peerless. Never before has Simeon seen such
loveliness ; eyes, pure and blue as the sky, into
which the rapt observer sinks as into an azure
sea ; a face fair of the fairest, and faultless in
its outline ; lips and mouth, and expression of
gentlest holiest love ; and all set in a framework
of golden hair which, falling like an
avalanche over shoulders of ivory, is, in its
very disorder, natural and comely. Her dress
of white, Lightly open at the throat and
bosom, clothes her from the shoulders to the
feet, and her green scarf, passed under her

avalanche of golden tresses, covers also her
shoulders, and falling richly and loosely over
her knees makes her look like a plant of
heaven rising from the earth in all its youth,
its gracefulness and strength.

Her companions on either side of her are
little less remarkable than herself. She sits
between the pillars of wisdom and strength.

Simeon is buoyant in spite of all he has
gone through. He wears still the dress in
which he appeared in the arena, except that
his feet are clad in the new and strong sandals
which his host has lent to him, and his head
is covered with a leathern cap or berretta, the
most elegant head-dress ever worn by the
male part of mankind. It is a dress altogether
— excepting for the new sandals — which
he has designed for his sword and athletic
practice, but it suits him as gracefully for
peace as for combat.

His face is the face of Spain and of Judah ;
a perfect mould of symmetrical cast. The
forehead rather narrow and retreating, with
dark hair above ; the eyebrows arched, the
eyes deep hazel, full, luminous, and wondering
; the nose is aquiline, the nostrils slightly

expanded ; the lips and cheeks well filled,
and firm set with command of the most
winning smile ; the chin just prominent with
a rather deep but well-formed cleft betwixt
it and the lower lip; the complexion a pale
olive ; the expression serene to the maximum
of serenity. The limbs are models of strength
and freedom ; and the whole frame a living
engine of trained athletic skill.

Leon looking at the youth, from time to
time, sums him up slowly and calmly as a
new artistic study in the domain of life, while
Simeon in turn watches, with keenest observation,
the man whose voice he has heard, whose
hand he has clasped, whose outline he has
seen, and whose protection he has experienced,
but whose face and manner are new to him in
the light of day.

The protector is indeed not one for Simeon
merely to see and therewith be content. He
is a man who, once spoken with, is at once
recognised as remarkable above other men.
His wide and accurate knowledge and his art
of research into hidden things account, in a
large degree, for this fact ; but his appearance
adds to the effect. Simeon instinctively recognises

both influences. He sees a man much
older, but as strong, he believes, as himself, a
man really not youthful to the eye yet bearing
no trace of age. Like the child he owns,
the man is of fair complexion, of a sanguine
tint which tells both of activity and power.
By one of those happy racial admixtures
which make up the varieties of the flowering
garden of humanity, his hair is an iron grey,
while his eyes are of the same deep blue as
those of his child, and equally absorptive.
His head is a dome of perfect symmetry and
balance ; the eyebrows are lengthened with
the large capacious brow ; the expression of
countenance is that of dignity, knowledge,
and wisdom. He is also strong of body and
graceful, but deliberate of movement ; his
speech is winning, hopeful and trustful. Above
all, there is in his voice the charm that makes
him a charmer of men ; it is a voice of music
rich in cadences, and so sweet to hear that
when it ceases the listeners wait as if something
they still wished to hear had yet to come.
But for this delicious melody of speech it might
be felt that from his richness of knowledge
he spoke too frequently and too long. A

harsh voice would make him a pain ; a hesitate
speech would make him a bore, from whom all
would flee ; but the sweetness of his tune and
the firmness of his tone, varied with natural
art to suit the subject on which he descants,
removes all weariness of mind or fear of
failure, and holds every one captive who comes
under its fascinating spell.

The three form a picture it is hard to
leave. Suffice it to record at this moment
that they converse with facility in the Latin
tongue, and that their discourse is as cheerful
as it is fluent and friendly ; after which they
take their morning rest.

Into one of the side recesses of the inner
cave akeady described, Leon out of soft plants
and branches of trees and heaps of mosses and
flowers, makes a bed for his beloved child. He
carries her, drooping with sleep, in his arms as
when she was a motherless infant to whom all
his life was to be devoted, and lays her, unresisting,
on the improvised couch. He smooths
her tresses, smooths the folds of her dress,
casts over her his own mantle, and receiving
Iron her lips the half-conscious filial kiss
which is ever the last act of her wakeful day,
he watches over her innocent face, innocent

and lovely as the choicest flowers near to her,
till she sleeps like them. He sees her eyelids
fall, he hears her breathing almost mute, he
returns her kiss without response from her,
and knowing now that she has sunken into the
oblivion that restores to life, he softly and
noiselessly steals from her side.

He starts, as he regains the outer court of
the cave, to find that his other companion, who
but a minute or two ac^o was so full of vigorous
life and action, now lies in equally deathlike
oblivion. In a moment, in the twinkling
of an eye, sleep has entrapped the valiant
youth whom he has saved. On the rocky
mound on which he sits Simeon has fallen
back into a kind of chair or couch of rock,
in an attitude so peaceful he seems a sculptured
figure in the wall of the cave, left by a
hand divine in art. He has unconsciously
fallen in the fine of beauty, and sleep has
seated him firm as the stones on which he reposes.
So deep is the oblivion that Leon,
unable to detect movements of his chest, holds
over his nostrils a polished plate to see if
moisture from the breath of life can be caught
upon it.

Satisfied that the sleep which revivifies

is the sleep alone that suspends the life of his
protege, he gently moves back the luxuriant
curls from off the handsome face, and with the
skill of the learned student of physiognomy-reads
the character of the sleeper.

It is a complicated reading. Innocence
blends with courage, courage with a resolution
scarcely mortal, defying men, time, and death.

The dress of the sleeper, open at the bosom,
exposes a small square of woven substance
suspended by a band of silk loosely tied round
the neck ; on this the eye of Leon falls.

It is a trifling thing this little square of
woven substance, and yet it has the instant
effect of filling the eyes of him who now surveys
it with a flood of tears. It bears incurious
characters a date ; it bears the face of
a beautiful woman ; a date, a face, that marks
in lines of grief the two most appalling events
of his, the observer's, career. That face is
like the face of his dead wife ; that date is the
date of the day when she, dying, gave birth
to a boy who never lived.

Did this sleeping youth come into the world
alive, on the day when his son, his only son,
came into the world dead ?

With gentle hand he lifts the woven square,
to turn it over and see the other side. As the
relic leaves the breast of the sleeper, he starts
from head to foot, as if his soul were being
torn from him ; his face grows deathly, his
hands clench. But as the relic overcast falls
back on the surface of his body, he also falls
back, and once again sleeps.

A thrill of wonder, enthusiasm, and admiration
passes now through Leon the philosopher.


The obverse of the woven square is
marked with symbols which he can read.

'The son of an illustrious King before
whom the stars fled, and of Palestrina of the
Temple, sent to deliver his people from bondage
and tribulation.'

The signs indicating these words are
enclosed in an embroidered square representing
the earth. On the eastern side of this
square is the design of a youth with a star
on his forehead, bearing aloft a torch of fire.
At the upper part of the square is the sun in
his meridian glory ; at the western side another

youth is sitting, with his head downcast and
his torch extinguished in the earth. They are
symbols of one who is to rise in brightness, attain
meridian glory, sink into gloom, and leave
the world still in its darkness, pain, and sorrow.

No, not leave it so hopeless ; for see at the
foot of the square there is the moon as a cradle
borne by the constellation Leo of the stars, and
in that cradle the youth reclines. . The light
of the moon and stars is faintly reflected by
the star still on his brow.

He is not dead ! He is being carried away
to new glories. He will arise again, and in
some newer and holier form reanimate the
world that mourns his absent face.

The countenance of Leon the scholar is
transformed with wonder. In this cave he
has found, as the prophetic legend declares
shall be found, the child of the sun in human
form, to redeem mankind. The incarnate
Mithras is here. The lion and the star of
that country in the East from which his own
fathers were exiled by the barbarians of the
mountains have re-united. He, Leon of the
west, has met the star of the east. His
dead son lives again, as his dead wife lives

again in the angelic girl sleeping in that other
cave.

The learned books of his people, in which
he is the most learned, have foretold the
whole. He must read the symbols anew.

There is no error in the reading. In this
savage Britain land of savages and of Romans
who are little better, this youth, a few hours
agone a running torch, running to please a
murderous crew, is now revealed to him asa
torch for lighting humanity to its farthest
stretch of glory. A priestess must have
formed those symbols, written them in a Holy
Temple as ascending, in spirit, through the
sacred dome of light, she descended in body
to the silent palaces of the dead I

Taking care to return the Oven tablet
without ever letting it lose its touch with the
body of the sleeper, Leon restores the tablet
as he had originally found it.

By this time the Hght of the sun fills each
part of the cave, leaving no shadow, but giving
to the stalactite pendants on the roof a hundred
points of incandescence which cast a glow
upon the youth, suggesting to the entranced
philosopher a more than earthly beauty, over

which he sits down to reflect and wonder.
Gradually the music of the falling water
absorbs his senses, and from thinking of the
symbols he has read he lapses into a vague
counting of the musical drops of the cascades.
The sounds become metrical, and chime to him
inconsequent words, of which the following
poor translation may convey an idea : — -

Drop ! drop ! drop !
Myriads of drops in an hour

Drop ! drop ! drop !
Myriads of drops in a shower.

Splash 1 splash ! splash !
Rise up in bubbles and fly ;

Splash ! splash 1 splash !
Sink into oceans and die.

And so for a time we will leave this mystic
three under the safe protection of Him who is
their strength and their shield.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

PRINTED BT

8P0TTISW00DB AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

LONDON

GENERAL LISTS OE WORKS

PUBLISHED BY

Messrs. LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO.

LONDON AND NEW YORK.

HISTORY, POLITICS HISTORICAL MEMOIRS, &C.

Abbey's The English Church and its Bishops, 1700-1800. 2 vols. 8vo. 24*.

Abbey and Overton's English Church iiith^ Eighteenth Century. Cr.870. 7*. Bd.

Arnold's Lectui-es on Modem History. 8vo. 7*. 6d.

Boswell's Ireland under the Tutors. Vols. 1 and 2. 2 vols. 8vo. 32*.

EaU's The Reformed Church of Ireland, 1537-1886. 8vo. 7*. 6d.

Boultbee's History of the Church of England, Pre-Reformation Period. 8vo. 15«,

Buckle's History of Civilisation. 3 vols, crown 8vo. 24*.

Canning (George) Some Official Correspondence of. 2 vols. 8vo. 28*.

Cox's (Sir Q. W.) General History of Greece. Crown 8vo. Maps, 7s. 6d.

Creighton's Papacy during the Reformation. Svo. Vols. 1 & 2, 32*. Vols. 3 &4, 24*.

De Tocqueville's Democracy in America. 2 vols, crown Svo. 16*.

Doyle's English in America : Virginia, Maryland, and the Carolinas, Svo. 18*.

— — The Puritan Colonies, 2 vols. Svo. 36*.

Epochs of Ancient History. Edited by the Rev. Sir G. W. Cox, Bart, and C.
Sankey, M.A. With Maps. Fcp. Svo. price 2*. Gd. each.

Beesly's Gracchus, Maids, and Sulla.

Capes's Age of the Antoninus.
Early Roman Empire.

Cox's Athenian Empire.

Greeks and Persians.
Curtis's Rise of the Macedonian

Empire.

Ihne's Rome to its Capture by the
Gauls.

Derivable's Roman Triumvirates.

Sankey '8 Spartan and Theban Supremacy.


Smith's Rome and Carthage, the
Punic Wars.

Epochs of Modern History. Edited by C. Collect, M.A. With Maps. Fcp. Svo.
2*. 6d. each.

Church's Beginning of the Middle

Ages.
Cox's Crusades.
Creighton's Age of Elizabeth.
Gardner's Houses of Lancaster

and York.
Gardiner's Puritan Revolution.

Thirty Years' War.

(Mrs.) French Revolution,

1789-179D.
Hale's Fall of the Stuart.
Johnson's Normans in Europe.

Longman's Frederick the Great and
the Seven Years* War.

Ludlow's War of American Independence.


McCarthy's Epoch of Reform, 1830-
1850.

Soberly's The Early Tutors.

Morris's Age of Queen Anne.
The Early Hanoverian,

Seebohm's Protestant Revolution.

Stubbs's The Early Plantagenet.

Warbur ton's Edward III.

Epochs of Church History. Edited by the Rev. Mantel Creighton, M.A.
Fcp. Svo. price 2*. 60!. each.

Brodrick's A History of the University

of Oxford.
Carr's The Church and the Roman

Empire.
Hunt's England and the Papacy.
Milliner's The "University of

Cambridge.
Overton's 'The Evangelical Revival

in the Eighteenth Century.
Perry's The Reformation in

England.

*^^* Other Volumes in preparation.

Plummer's The Oturch of the Early

Fathers.
Stephens' Hildebrand and his

Times.
Tower's The Church and the Eastern

Empire.
Tucker's The English Church in

other Lauds.
Waken's The Church and the

Puritans.

LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York.

Freeman's Historical Geography of Europe. 2 vols. 8vo. 31<. 6d.
Froude's English in Ireland in the 18th Century. 3 vols, crown 8vo. 18s.

History of England. Popular Edition. 12 vols, crown 8vo. 3*. 6d. each.

Gardiner's History of England from the Accession of James I. to the Outbreak

of the Civil War. 10 vols, crown 8vo. cos.

History of the Great Civil War, 1642-1649 (3 vols.) Vol. 1, 1642-1644,

8vo. 21s.

Greville's Journal of the Reigns of King George TV., King William IV., and

Queen Victoria. Cabinet Edition. 8 vols, crown 8vo. 65. each.
Historic Towns. Edited by E. A. Freeman, D.C.L. and the Rev. William Hunt,
M.A. With Maps and Plans. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d, each.

Bristol. By the Rev. W. Hunt.
Oxford. By the Rev. C. W. Base.

London. By W. E. Los tie.
Exeter. By E. A. Freeman.
Cinque Ports. By Montagu
Burrows.

Colchester. By the Rev. E. C. Cutts

Lecky's History of England in the Eighteenth Century. Vols. 1 & 2, 1700-1760,
sto. 36s. Vols. 3 & 4, 1760-1784, 8vo. 3Qs. Vols. 5 & 6, 1784-1793, 36*.

History of European Morals. 2 vols, crown 8vo. I63.

Rationalism in Europe. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 16a.

Longman's Life and Times of Edward III. 2 vols. Svo, 2Ss.
Macaulay's Complete Works. Library Edition. 8 vols. 8yo. £5. 5s.

— — Cabinet Edition. 16 vols, crown Svo. £4. 16«.

History of England :—

Student's Edition. 2 vols. cr. 8vo. 12s. I Cabinet Edition. 8 vols, po.^' Svo. 48«.

People's Edition. 4 vols. cr. Svo. 16«. | Library Edition. 5 vole. 8vo. Ji4.
Macaulay's Critical and Historical Essays, with Lays of Ancient Rome In One

Volume : —

Authorised Edition. Cr. Svo. 2*. 6d. I Popular Edition, Cr. Svo. 2*. 6d.
or 3s. 6d. gilt edges. |

Macaulay's Critical and Historical Essays : —

Student's Edition. 1 vol. cr. Svo. 65. I Cabinet Edition. 4 vols, post Svo. 24*.

People's Edition. 2 vols. cr. Svo. 8s. | Library Edition. 3 vols. Svo. 36*.
Macaulay's Speeches corrected by Himself. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d.
Salisbury's (Earl of) Memoirs of an Ex-minister. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.
May's Constitutional History of England, 1760-1870. 3 vols, crown Svo. 18*.

Democracy in Europe. 2 vols. Svo. 32s.
Derivable's Fall of the Roman Republic. 12mo. 7s. 6d.

General History of Rome, B.c. 753-a.d. 476. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

History of the Romans under the Empire. 8 vols, post Svo. 48s.
Nelson's (Lord) Letters and Despatches. Edited by J. K. Laughton. Svo. 16i.
Pears' The Fall of Constantinople. Svo. 16s.

Richey's Short History of the Irish People. Svo. 14s.
Saintsbury's Manchester : a Short History. Crown Svo. 3s. M.
Seebohm's Oxford Reformers— Colet, Erasmus, & More. Svo. lis.
Short's History of the Church of England. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.
Smith's Carthage and the Carthaginian. Crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
Taylor's Manual of the History of India. Crown Svo. 7s. M.
Todd's Parliamentary Government in England (2 vols.) Vol. 1, Svo. 21s.
Tuttle's History of Prussia under Frederick the Great, 1740-1756. 2 vols,
crown Svo. Miss.

LONGIklANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York.

Vitzthum's St. Petersburg and London, 1852-1864. 2 vols. Svo. 30j.

Walpole History of England, from 1815. 5 vols. Svo. Vols. 1 & 2, 1815-1832, 36«,

Vol. 3, 1832-1841, 185. Vols. 4 & 5, 184J-1858, 365.
Wylie's History of England under Henry IV. Vol. 1, crown Svo. 10*. Gd,

BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS

Armstrong's (E. J.) Life and Letters. Edited by G. P. Armstrong. Fcp. Svo. Is.Qd.
Bacon's Life and Letters, by Spending. 7 vols. Svo. £4. 4i.
Bagehot's Biographical Studies. 1 voL Svo. 12j.

Carlyle's Life, by J. A. Froude. Vols. 1 & 2, 1795-1835, Svo. 32*. Vols. 3 & 4,
1834-1881, Svo. 32*.
(Mrs.) Letters and Memorials. 3 vols. Svo. 36*.
Doyle (Sir F. H.) Reminiscences and Opinions. Svo. 16*.
English Worthies. Edited by Andrew Lang. Crown Svo. each 1*. sewed;
1*. 6d. cloth.
Charles Darwin. By Gl-rant Allen.
Shaftesbury (The First Earl). By
H. D. Trail.

Steele. By Austin Dobson.
Ben Jonson. By J. A. Symonds.
George Canning. By Prank H. Hill.
Charterhouse. By Mowbray Morris.

Admiral Blake. By David Hannah.

Marlborough. By Geo. Saintsbury.
Fox (Charles James) The Early History of. By Sir Ot. 0. Trevelyan, Bart,

Crown Svo. 6*.
Froude's C^sar : a Sketch. Crown Svo. 6*.

Hamilton's (Sir W. R.) Life, by Graves. Vols. 1 and 2, Svo. 15*. each.
Havelock's Life, by Marshal. Crown Svo. 3*. 6d.
Jenkins's (Fleeming) Papers, Literary, Scientia, &c. With Memoir by R. L,

Stevenson. 2 vols. Svo. 32*.
Laughton's Studies in Naval History. Svo. 10*. 6d.
Macaulay's (Lord) Life and Letters. By his Nephew, Sir G. 0. Trevelyan, Bart.

Popular Edition, 1 vol. crown Svo. 6*. Cabinet Edition, 2 vols, post

8vo. 12*. Library Edition, 2 vols. Svo. 36*.
Mendelssohn's Letters. Translated by Lady Wallace. 2 vols. or. Svo. 5*. each.
Miiller's (Max) Biographical Essays. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.
Newman's Apologia pro Vita Sua. Crown Svo. 6*.
Pasteur (Louis) His Life and Labours. Crown Svo. 7*. 6i.
Shakespeare's Life (Outlines of), by Halliwell-Phillipps. 2 vols, royal Svo. 10*. 6d,
Southey's Correspondence with Caroline Bowles. Svo. 14*.
Stephen's Essays in Ecclesiastical Biography. Crown Svo. 7*. 6d.
Taylor's (Sir Henry) Correspondence. 8vo. 16*.
Wellington's Life, by Gleig. Crown Svo. 6*.

MENTAL AND POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY, FINANCE, &C,

Adam's Public Debts ; an Essay on the Science of Finance. Svo. 12*. Gd.
Amos's View of the Science of Jurisprudence. Svo. 18*.

Primer of the English Constitution. Crown Svo. 6*.
Bacon's Essays, with Annotations by Lately. Svo. 10*. 6d.

Works, edited by Spending. 7 vols. Svo. 73*. 6d.
Bagehot's Economic Studies, edited by Sutton. Svo. 10*. ed.

The Postulates of English Political Economy. Crown Svo. 2*. 6d,

LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York.

Bain's Logic, Deductive and Inductive. Crown 8vo. 10*. 6d.

Part I. Deduction, is. \ Part II. Induction, 6«. 6d.

Mental and Moral Science, Crown 8vo. 10*. 6d.
—- The Senses and the Intellect. 8vo. 15*.

The Emotions and the Will. Svo. 15*. v^
Crozier's Civilisation and Progress. Svo. 5*.

Crump's Short Enquiry into the Formation of English Political Opinion. Svo. 7i.6d.
Dwell's A History of Taxation and Taxes in England. Svo. Vols. 1 & 2, 21*.

Vols. 3 & 4, 21*.
Green's (Thomas Hill) Works. (3 vols.) Vols. 1 & 2, Philosophical Works. Svo.

16*. each.
Hume's Essays, edited by Green & Rose. 2 vols. Svo. 28*.

Treatise of Human Nature, edited by Green & Rose. 2 vols. Svo. 28*.
Kirkup's An Enquiry into Socialism. Crown Svo. 5*.

Lady's Elements of Physiological Psychology. Svo. 21*.

Lang's Custom and Myth : Studies of Early Usage and Belief. Crown Svo. 7*. 6d.

Myth, Ritual, and Religion. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21*.
Leslie's Essays in Political and Moral Philosophy. Svo. 10*. Gd.
Lewes's History of Philosophy. 2 vols. Svo. 32*.
Lubbock's Origin of Civilisation. Svo. IS*.

Macleod The Elements of Economics. (2 vols.) Vol. 1, cr. Svo. 7*. 6d. Vol. 2,
Part I. cr. Svo. 7*. 6d.

The Elements of Banking. Crown 8vo. 5*.

The Theory and Practice of Banking. Vol. 1, Svo. 12*. Vol. 2, 14*.
Max Miiller's The Science of Thought. Svo. 21*.

Mill's (James) Analysis of the Phenomena of the Human Mind. 2 vols. Svo. 28*.
Mill (John Stuart) on Representative Government. Crown Svo. 2*.

— on Liberty. Crown Svo. 1*. id.

— Examination of Hamilton's Philosophy. 8vo. 16*.

— Logic. Crown Svo. 5*.

— Principles of Political Economy. 2 vols. Svo. 30*. People's

Edition, 1 vol. crown Svo. 5*.
Utilitarianism. Svo. 5*.

— Three Essays on Religion, &c. Svo. 5*.
Mulhall's History of Prices since 1850. Crown 8vo. 6*.
Sanders's Institutes of Justinian, with English Notes. Svo. IS*.
Seebohm's English Village Community. Svo. 16*.

Sully's Outlines of Psychology. Svo. 12*. 6d.

Teacher's Handbook of Psychology. Crown Bvo. 6*. Gd.
Swinburne's Picture Logic. Post Svo. 5*. I
Thompson's A System of Psychology. 2 vols. Svo. 36*.

The Problem of Evil. Svo. 10*. 6d.

The Religious Sentiments of the Human Mind. Svo. 7*. 6(7.
Thomson's Outline of Necessary Laws of Thought. Crown Svo. 6*.
Swiss's Law of Nations in Time of War. Svo. 21*.

— in Time of Peace. Svo. 15*.
Webb's The Veil of Isis. Svo. 10*. 6d.
Lately's Elements of Logic. Crown Svo. 4*. 6d.

Rhetoric. Crown Svo. 4*. 6d.

Wye's Labour, Leisure, and Luxury. Crown 8vo. 6*.
Seller's History of Eclecticism in Greek Philosophy. Crown Svo. 10*. 6d.
Plato and the Older Academy. Crown Svo. 18*.

LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York.

Zeller'a Pre-Socratic Schools. 2 vols, crown 8vo. sos.

Socrates and the Socratic Schools. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.

Stoics, Epicurean, and Sceptics. Crown 8vo. 15s'

Outlines of the History of Greek Philosophy. Crown 8vo. 10*. ei.

MISCELLANEOUS WORKS.

A, K. H. B., The Essays and Contributions of. Crown 8vo.

Autumn Holidays of a Country Parson. 3*. 6d.

Changed Aspects of Unchanged Truths. 35. 6d.

Common-Place Philosopher in Town and Country. 3*. M.

Critical Essays of a Country Parson. 3s. Qd.

Counsel and Comfort spoken from a City Pulpit. is.Gd.

Graver Thoughts of a Country Parson. Three Series. 3*. 6d. each.

Landscapes, Churches, and Moralities. 3s. 6d.

Leisure Hours in Town. 35. Qd. Lessons of Middle Age. 3*. 6i.

Our Homely Comedy ; and Tragedy. 35. 6d.

Our Little Life. Essays Consolatory and Domestic. Two Series. 35. 6d.

Present-day Thoughts. 35. 6d. [each.

Recreations of a Country Parson. Three Series. 35. Bd. each.

Seaside Musings on Sundays and Week-Days. 3s. 6d.

Sunday Afternoons in the Parish Church of a University City. Z». Bd.
Armstrong's (Ed. J.) Essays and Sketches. Fcp. 8vo. 5.?.
Arnold's (Dr. Thomas) Miscellaneous Works. 8yo. 7s. Gd.
Bagehot's Literary Studies, edited by Sutton. 2 vols. 8vo. 285.
Beaconsfield (Lord), The Wit and Wisdom of. Crown 8vo. I5. boards ; I5. 6d. cl.
Farrar's Language and Languages, Crown 8vo. 6s.
Fronde's Short Studies on Great Subjects. 4 vols, crown 8vo. dis.
Hath's The Marriage of Near Kin. Royal 8 to. 21.?.
Lang's Letters to Dead Authors. Fcp. 8vo. 65. 6d.

Books and Broken. GrownSvo. 65. 6d.
Macaulay's Miscellaneous Writings, 2 vols, 8vo. 2l5. 1 vol. crown Svo. is. 6d.

Miscellaneous Writings and Speeches. Crown Svo. 65,

Miscellaneous Writings, Speeches, Lays of Ancient Rome, &c.

Cabinet Edition. 4 vols, crown Svo, 245.

Writings, Selections from. Crown Svo. 65.

Max MUller's Lectures on the Science of Language. 2 vols, crown Svo, 18i.

— Lectures on India, Svo. 125. M.

— Biographies Words and the Home of the Areas. Crown 8vo.75.6ci.
Oliver's Astronomy for Amateurs, Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

Proctor's Chance and Luck. Crown Svo, 55.

Smith (Sydney) The Wit and Wisdom of. Crown Svo. I5, boards ; I5, 6c?, cloth.

ASTRONOMY.

Herschel's Outlines of Astronomy. Square crown Svo. 12*.
Proctor's Larger Star Atlas. Folio, 155. or Maps only, 125. 6d.

New Star Atlas. Crown 8vo. 5*.

Light Science for Leisure Hours, 3 Series. Crown Svo. 6*. each.

The Moon. Crown Svo. 65.

Other Worlds than Ours. Crown Svo. 55.

Studies of Venus-Transits. Svo. 55.

Orbs Around Us. Crown Svo. 55.

Universe of Stars. Svo, Io. 6d.

Old and New Astronomy. 12 Parts. 25. Gd. each, (In course of

publication.)
Webb's Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes. Crown Svo. 9*.

LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York.

THE 'KNOWLEDGE' LIBRARY.

Edited by Richard A. Proctor.

How to Play Whist. Crown 8vo. 5*.
Home Whist. 16mo. I5.
The Poetry of Astronomy. Cr. 8vo. 65.
Nature Studies. Crown 8vo. 6s.
Leisure Readings. Crown 8vo. 6s.
The Stars in their Seasons. Imp. 8vo. 55.
Myths and JIai-vels of Astronomy.
Crown 8vo. 65.'

Pleasant Ways in Science. Cr. 8vo. 6».
Star Primer. Crown 4to. 2s. 6d.
The Seasons Pictured. Demy 4to. Bs.
Strength and Happiness. Cr. 8vo. 6*.
Rough Ways made Smooth. Cr.8vo.55.
The Expanse of Heaven. Cr. 8vo. 5*.
Our Place among Infinities. Cr. 8vo.55.
The Great Pyramid. Cr. 8vo. 65.

CLASSICAL LANGUAGES AND LITERATURE.

aeschylus, The Eumenides of. Test, with Metrical English Translation, by

J. P. Davies. 8vo. 75.
Aristophanes' The Athenians, translated by R. T. Tyrrel. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.
Aristotle's The Ethics, Text and Notes, by Sir Alex. Grant, Bart. 2 vols. 8vo. 32s.

The N coachman Ethics, translated by Williams, crown 8vo. 7*. 6d.
~~ The Politics, Books I. III. IV. (VII.) with Translation, &c by

Roland and Lang. Crown 8vo. 75. 6d.
Decker's Charades and Gallus, by Metcalf. Post 8vo. 75. 61^. each.
Cicero's Correspondence, Text and Notes, by R. T. Tyrrel. Vols. 1 & 2, Svo.

125. each.
Mahaffy's Classical Greek Literature. Crown Svo. Vol. 1, The Poets, 75. 6d.

Vol. 2, The Prose Writers, 75. 6d.
Plato's Parmenides, with Notes, &c. by J. Maguire. Svo. 75. 6d.
Virgil's Works, Latin Text, with Commentary, by Kennedy. Crown Svo. Io. 6d.

.Aeneid, translated into English Verse, by Conington. Crown Svo. 95.

— — byW. J. Thornhill. Cr.8vo.75.6d.

Poems, — — — Prose, by Conington. Crown Svo. 95.
Witt's Myths of Hellas, translated by F. M. Younghusband. Crown Svo. 35. 6<f.

The Trojan War, — — Fcp. Svo. 2s.

The Wanderings of Ulysses, — Crown Svo. 35. 6d,

NATURAL HISTORY, BOTANY, & GARDENING.

Dixon's Rural Bird Life. Crown Svo. Illustrations, 55.
Earwig's Aerial World, Svo. Io. M.
-~ Polar World, Svo. Io. 6d.

Sea and its Living Wonders. Svo. 10s. 6d.

Subterranean World, Svo. Io. 6d.

Tropical World, Svo. Io. 6d.
Lindsey's Treasury of Botany. 2 vols. fcp. Svo. 125.
London's Encyclopedia of Gardening. Svo. 2l5.

— Plants. Svo. 425.
Rivers's Orchard House. Crown Svo. 55.

Miniature Fruit Garden. Fcp. Svo. 45.
Stanley's Familiar History of British Birds. Crown Svo. 65.
Wood's Bible Animals. With 11 2 Vignettes. Svo. Io. 6d.

Homes Without Hands, Svo. Io. 6d.
•— Insects Abroad, 8vo. Io. 6d.

Horse and Man. Svo. 145.

Insects at Home. With 700 Illustrations. Svo. Io. 6d.

LONaMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and Ne York.

Wood's Out of Doors. Crown 8 vo . ox.

Pentland Revisited. Ctowti 8vo. 7s. ci

Strange Dwellings. Crown svo. 5s. Popular Edition, 4to. 6d.

CHEMISTRY ENGINEERING, 8c GENERAL SCIENCE.

Arnott's Elements of Physics or Natural Philosophy. Crown 8vo. 12*. 6c?.
Barrett's English Glees and Part-Songs : their Historical Development.

Crown 8vo. "5, 6d.
Bourne's Catechism of the Steam Engine. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

Handbook of the Steam Engine. Fcp. Svo. 9s.

Recent Improvements in the Steam Engine. Fcp. Svo. 6*.
Button's Our Dwellings, Healthy and Unhealthy. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d,
Clerk's The Gas Engine. "With Illustrations. Crown Svo. 75. M.
Cloud's The Story of Creation. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 6s.
Crookes's Select methods in Chemical Analysis, Svo. 24*.

Muley's Handbook of Practical Telegraphy. Svo. Ribs.

Fairbaim's Useful Information for Engineers. 3 vols, crown Svo. 3ls. 6d.

Mills and MiUwork. 1 vol. Svo. 25*.
Forbes' Lectures on Electricity. Crown Svo. 05.

Galloway's Principles of Chemistry Practically Taught. Crown Svo. 6*. 6d.
Ganot's Elementary Treatise on Physics, by Atkinson. Large crown Svo. 15t,

Natural Philosophy, by Atkinson. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.
Grove's Correlation of Physical Forces. Svo. 15*.
Houghton's Six Lectures on Physical Geography. Svo. 15s.
Helmholtz on the Sensations of Tone. Royal Svo. 28*.

Helmholtz's Lectures on Scientific Subjects. 2 vols, crown Svo. 7s. 6d. each.
Hudson and Gosse's The Rotifera or ' Wheel Animalcules.' With 30 Coloured

Plates. 6 parts. 4to. 10s. 6d. each. Complete, 2 vols. 4to. £3. 10*.
Hullah's Lectures on the History of Modern Music. Svo, 8*. 6d.

Transition Period of Musical History. Svo. 10*. 6d.
Jackson's Aid to Engineering Solution. Roya.1 Svo. 21*.

Ago's Inorganic Chemistry, Theoretical and Practical. Fcp. Svo. 2*. Bd.
Kolbe's Short Text-book of Inorganic Chemistry. Crown Svo. 7*. 6d.
Lloyd's Treatise on Magnetism. Svo. 10*. 6d.

Magister's Zoology and Morphology of Vertebrate Animals. Svo. 10*. 6d.
Macfarren's Lectures on Harmony. Svo. 1 2*.

Addresses and Lectures. Crown Svo. 6*. 6d,

Martin's Navigation and Nautical Astronomy. Royal Svo. IS*.
Meyer's Modem Theories of Chemistry. Svo. 18*.
Miller's Elements of Chemistry, Theoretical and Practical. 3 vols. Svo. Part I.

Chemical Physics, 16*. Part II. Inorganic Chemistry, 24*. Part III. Organic

Chemistry, price 31*. 6d.
Pitchers Manual of Practical Assaying. Svo. 31*. 6<f.

Dissolution and Evolution and the Science of Medicine. Svo. 16*.
Noble's Hours with a Three-inch Telescope. Crown Svo. 4*. 6d.
Northcott's Lathes and Turning. Svo. IS*.
Owen's Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Vertebrate

3 vols. Svo. 73*. 6d.
Piesse'a Art of Perfumery. Square crown Svo. 21*.

LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York.

Richardson's The Health of Nations ; Works and Life of Edwin Chadwick, Cab.
2 vols. 8vo. 285.

The Commonwealth ; a Series of Essays. Crown 8vo. 64

Bchellen's Spectrum Analysis. Svo. Zls. 6d,
Scott's Weather Charts and Storm Warnings. Crown Svo. Gs.
Bennett's Treatise on the Marine Steam Engine. Svo. 21«.
Smith's Air and Vain. Svo, 245.

Stoney's The Theory of the Stresses on Girders, &c. Royal Svo. 36j.
Tilted's Pi-actual Chemistry. Fcp. Svo. Is. Bd.
Tyndall's Faraday as a Discoverer. Crown Svo. Ss. 6<f.

Floating Matter of the Air. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

Fragments of Science. 2 vols, post Svo. Cheat

a Mode of Motion. Crown Svo. 125.

Lectures on Light delivered in America. Crown Svo. Ss.

Lessons on Electricity, Crown Svo. 2s. Gd.

Notes on Electrical Phenomena. Crown Svo. Is. sewed. Is. 6d. cloth.

Notes of Lectures on Light. Crown Svo. Is. sewed, 1*. 6d. cloth.

Researches on Diamaguetism and Magne-crystalline Action. Cr. Svo.

12s.

Sound, with Frontispiece and 203 Woodcuts, Crown Svo. 10s. 6d.
Unwind's The Testing of Materials of Construction. Illustrated, Svo, 21*.
Watts' Dictionary of Chemistry. New Edition (4 vols). Vol, 1, Svo, 42*.
Wilson's Manual of Health-Science. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.

THEOLOGICAL AND RELIGIOUS WORKS.

Arnold's (Rev. Dr. Thomas) Sermons, 6 vols, crown Svo. 5s. each.

Boultbee's Commentary on the 39 Articles. Crown Svo. Gs.

Browne's (Bishop) Exposition of the 39 Articles. Svo, 16*.

Bullinger's Critical Lexicon and Concordance to the English and Greek New

Testament. Royal Svo, 155.
Coles on the Pentateuch and Book of Joshua. Crown Svo. 65.
Condor's Handbook of the Bible, Post Svo. 75. Gd.
Conybeare & Hobson's Life and Letters of St. Paul :—

Library Edition, with Maps, Plates, and Woodcuts. 2 vols, square crown

Svo. 21*.
Student's Edition, revised and condensed, with 46 Illustrations and Maps.
1 vol, crown Svo. 65.
Cox's (Homersham) The First Century of Christianity. Svo. 125, •
Davidson's Introduction to the Study of the New Testament. 2 vols. Svo. 30*.
Edersheitn's Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah. 2 vols. Svo, 245.

Prophecy and History in relation to the Messiah. Svo. 125.
Ellicott's (Bishop) Commentary on St. Paul's Epistles, Svo, Corinthians I, I65.

Galatians, 85, Gd. Ephesians, 85, Gd. Pastoral Epistles, Io. Gd. Philippians,
Colossians and Philemon, Io. Gd. Thessalonians, 7s. Gd.

Lectures on the Life of our Lord. Svo, 12.».
Bald's Antiquities of Israel, translated by Solly. Svo. 125. Gd.

History of Israel, translated by Carpenter & Smith. 8 vols. Svo. Vol.

1 &' 2, 245. Vols. 3 & 4, 215. Vol. 5, I85. Vol. 6, I65. Vol. 7, 2l5.

Vol, S, I85,
Hobart's Medical Language of St. Luke. Svo, I65.
Hopkins's Christ the Consoler. Fcp. Svo. 2s. Gd.

LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York.

Jameson's Sacred and Legendary Art. 6 vols, square 8vo.
Legends of the Madonna. 1 vol. 21*.

— — Monastic Orders 1 vol. 21s.

— — Saints and Martyrs. 2 vols. 31 «. Qd.

— — Saviour. Completed by Lady Eastlake. 2 vols. iSs.
Jukes's New Man and the Eternal Life. Crown 8vo. ces.

Second Death and the Restitution of all Things. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6i.

Types of Genesis. Crown 8vo. 7s. Gd.

The Mystery of the Kingdom. Crown 8vo. Bs. Qd.

The Names of God in Holy Scripture. Crown 8vo. 45. G^.
Lenormant's New Translation of the Book of Genesis. Translated into English.

8vo. 10s. 6d.
Lyra Germania : Hymns translated by Miss Wentworth. Fcp. 8vo. 5*.
Macdonald's (G.) Unspoken Sermons. Two Series, Crown 8vo. 3s. Qd. each.

The Miracles of our Lord. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.
Manning's Temporal Mission of the Holy Ghost. Crown 8vo. 8s. 6d.
Martineau's Endeavours after the Christian Life. Crown 8vo. 7s. Gd.

Hymns of Praise and Prayer. Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 32mo. Is. Sd.

Sermons, Hours of Thought on Sacred Things. 2 vols. 7s. Qd. each.
Max Miiller's Origin and Growth of Religion. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d.

— Science of Religion. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

Morsel's Spiritual Songs for Sundays and Holidays. Pep. 8vo. 5s. 18mo. 2s.
Newman's Apologia pro Vita Sua. Crown 8vo. 6s.

The Arian of the Fourth Century. Crown 8vo. 6s.

The Idea of a University Defined and Illustrated. Crown Svo. 7s,

Historical Sketches. 3 vols, crown Svo. 6s. each.

Discussions and Arguments on Various Subjects. Crown Svo. 6s.

An Essay on the Development of Christian Doctrine. Crown Svo. 6s.

Certain Difficulties Felt by Anglicans in Catholic Teaching Considered.

Vol. 1, crown Svo. 7s. Gd. Vol. 2, crown Svo. 5s. 6d.

The Via Media of the Anglican Church, Illustrated in Lectures, &c.

2 vols, crown Svo. 6s. each.

Essays, Critical and Historical 2 vols, crown Svo. 12s.

Essays on Biblical and on Ecclesiastical Miracles. Cro^Ti Svo. 6*.

An Essay in Aid of a Grammar of Assent. 7s. 6d.

Select Treatises of St. Athanasius in Controversy with the Arian.

Translated. 2 vols, crown Svo. 15s.
Overton's Life in the English Church (1660-1714). Svo. 14s.
Roberts' Greek the Language of Christ and His Apostles. 8vo. supernaturally
Region. Complete Edition. 3 vols. Svo. 36s.
Younghusband's The Story of Our Lord told in Simple Language for Children.
Illustrated. Cro^vn Svo. 2s. 6d. cloth plain ; 3s. 6d. cloth extra, gilt edges.

TRAVELS, ADVENTURES, &.C.

Baker's Eight Years in Ceylon. Crown Svo. 5s.

Rifle and Hound in Ceylon. Crown Svo. 5s.

Braaeey'B Sunshine and Storm in the East. Library Edition, Svo. 21s. Cabinet
Edition, crown Svo. 7s. 6d. Popular Edition, 4'to. Gd.

LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York.

Brasses's Voyage in the ' Sunbeam.' Library Edition, 8vo.2l5. Cabinet Edition,
crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. School Edition, fcp. sto. 25. Popular Edition,
4to. %d.

In the Trades, the Tropics, and the ' Roaring Forties.' Cabinet Edition,

crown 8vo. 17^. 6d. Popular Edition, 4to. 6d.
Crawford's Reminiscences of Foreign Travel. Crown 8vo. 5s.
Fronde's Oceana ; or, England and her Colonies. Cr. 8 vo. 25. boards ; 2s. 6d. cloth.

The English iu the West Indies. 8vo. I85.
Hewitt's Visits to Remarkable Places. Crown 8vo-55.

James's The Long "White Mountain ; or, a Journey in Manchuria. Svo. 24*.

Linda's Picturesque New Guinea. 4to. 425.

Penned's Our Sentimental Journey through France and Italy. Illustrated.

Crown 8vo. 65.
Riley's Athos ; or. The Mountain of the ]\tonks. Svo. 2\s.
Three in Norway. By Two of Them. Illustrated. Cro\\Ti Svo. 25, boards ;

2*. M. cloth.

WORKS OF FICTION.

Anstey's The Black Poodle, &c. Crown 8vo. 25. boards ; 25. M. cloth.
Beaconsfield's (The Earl of) Novels and Tales.' Hughenden Edition, with 2
Portraits on Steel and 11 Vignettes on Wood. 11 vols, crown Svo. £2. 2s,
Cheap Edition, 11 vols, crown 8vo. I5. each, boards ; l5.6d. each, cloth.
Lothair.
Sybil.
Coningsby.
Tancred.
Venetia.

Henrietta Temple.
Giles' Boys and Masters. Crown Svo. 3*. Qd.
Haggard's (H. Rider) She : a History of Adventure. Crown Svo. 65.

— Allan Waterman. Illustrated. Crown Svo. 6i.

Harte (Bred) On the Frontier. Three Stories. 16mo. I5.

— By Shore and Sedge. Three Stories. 16mo. Is.

— In the Carquinez Woods. Crown Svo. I5. boards ; Is. Qd. cloth.
Lyell's (Edna) The Autobiography of a Slander. Fcp. I5. sewed.

Melville's (Whyte) Novels. 8 vols. fcp. Svo. Is. each, boards ; Is. Zd. each, cloth.

Contain Fleming.
Alloy, Vision, &c.
The Young Duke, &c,
Vivian Grey.
Endymion.

Digby Grand. Good for Nothing.

General Bounce. Hornby House.

Kate Coventry. The Interpreter.

The Gladiators. The Queen's Maries.

Wordsworth's (Mrs.) Marrying and Giving in Marriage. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
Novels by the Author of ' The Atelier du Lys ' :

The Atelier du Lys ; or, Ah Art Student in the Reign of Terror. Crown

Svo. 25. Qd.
Mademoiselle Mori : a Tale of Modem Rome. Crown Svo. 2s. Qd.
In the Older Time : a Tale of the Peasant War in Germany. Crown Svo. 2s. Qd,
Hester's Venture. Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
Oliphant's (Sirs.) Madam. Crown Svo. Is. boards ; Is. Qd. cloth.

— In Trust: the Story of a Lady and her Lover. Crown Svo.

Is. boards ; Is. 6d. cloth.
Pain's (James) The Luck of the Darrell. Crown Svo. Is. boards ; \s. 6d. cloth.

— Thicker than Water. Crown Svo. Is. boards ; Is. Gd. cloth.
Reader's Fairy Prince Follow my-Lead. Crown Svo. 2s. Gd.

The Ghost of Brankinshaw ;and other Tales. Fcp. Svo. 2s. 6d.

LONGMANS, Green, & CO., London and New York.

Sewell's (Miss) Stories and Tales. Crown 8vo. Is. each, boards ; 1*. Gd. cloth
2s, 6d, cloth extra, gilt edges.

Amy Herbert. Cleve Hall.
The Earl's Daughter.
Experience of life.
Gertrude. Ivory.

A Glimpse of the World.
Katharine Ashton.
Langton Parsonage.
Margaret Percival. Ursula.

Stevenson's (R. L.) The Dynamite. Fop. 8vo. Is. sewed ; Is, 6d. cloth.

— Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Ftp. 8vo. 1*.

sewed ; Is. Gd. cloth.
Trollope's (Anthony) Novels. Fcp. 8vo. Is. each, boards ; 1*. Gd. cloth.

The Warden | March ester Towers.

POETRY AND THE DRAMA.
Armstrong's (Ed. J.) Poetical Worlds. Fcp. 8vo. 5s.
(G. F.) Poetical Works :—

Poems, Lyrical and Dramatic. Fcp.

8vo. 6*.
Gone : a Tragedy. Fcp. 8vo. 6s

Stories of Wicklow. Fcp, 8vo. 9s.
Mephistopheles in Broadcloth : a

Satire. Fcp. Svo. 4s.
Victoria Regina et Imperator : a

Jubilee Song from Ireland, 1887.

4to. 25. 6d.

A Garland from Greece. Fcp. 8vo.9s,

King Saul. Fcp. Svo. 5s.

King David. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

King Solomon. Fcp. Svo. 6s.
Ballads of Berks. Edited by Andrew Lang. Fcp. Svo. 6s.
Bowen's Harrow Songs and other Verses. Fcp. Svo. 2s. 6^. ; or printed on

hand-made paper, 5s.
Powder's Family Shakespeare. Medium Svo. 14s. 6 vols. fcp. Svo. 21s.
Dante's Divine Comedy, translated by James Innes Machin. Crown Svo. 15s.
Goethe's Faust, translated by Birds. Large crown 8yo. 12s. Gd,

— translated by Webb. Svo. 12s. Gd.

— edited by Sells. Crown Svo. 5s.
Angelo's Poems. 2 Vols. fcp. Svo. 12s. ; Vol. 3, fcp. Svo. 5s.

Lyrical and other Poems. Fcp. Svo. 2s. Gd. cloth, plain ; 3s. cloth,

gilt edges.
Kendall's (Mrs.) Dreams to Sell. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Macaulay's Lays of Ancient Rome. Illustrated by Scarf. 4to. 10s. 6d.
Popular Edition, fcp. 4to. Gd. swd., Is. cloth.

Lays of Ancient Rome, with Ivory and the Armada. illustrated by
WegueKn. Crown Svo. 3s. Gd. gilt edges.

Nesbit's Lays and Legends. Crown Svo. 5?.

Newman's The Dream of Grotius. 16mo. Gd. sewed ; Is. cloth.

Verses on Various Occasions. Fcp. Svo. 6s.

Reader's Voices from Flowered, a Birthday Book, 2s, Gd. cloth, 3s. Gd. roan.
Southey's Poetical Works. Medium 8vo. 14s.
Stevenson's A Child's Garden of Verses. Fcp. Svo. 5s.
Virgil's Mneid, translated by Conington. Crown Svo. 9s.

Poems, translated into English Prose. Crown Svo. 9s.

AGRICULTURE, HORSES, DOGS, AND CATTLE.

Fitzwygram's Horses and Stables. Svo. 5s.
Lloyd's The Science of Agriculture. Svo. 12s.
London's Encyclopaedia of Agriculture. . 21s.

Brother's Pioneers and Progress of English Farming. Crown Svo. 5s,
Steel's Diseases of the Ox, a Manual of Bovine Pathology. 8vo. 15s.
— — Dog. Svo. 10s. Gd.

LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York.

Stonehenge's Dog in Health and Disease. Square crown 8vo. 7». 6d.

Greyhound. Square crown 8vo. 16^.
Taylor's Agricultural Note Book. Fcp. 8vo, 2s. 6d.
Ville on Artificial Manures, by Crookes. Svo. 21*.
Youatt's Work on the Dog. Svo. 65.

— — — Horse. Svo. 7s. 6d.

SPORTS AND PASTIMES.

The Badminton Library of Sports and Pastimes. Edited by the Duke of Beaufort
and A. E. T. Watson. With numerous Illustrations. Cr. Svo. 10*. 6d. each.

Hunting, by the Duke of Beaufort, &c.

Fishing, by H. Cholmondeley-Pennell, &c. 2 vols.

Racing, by the Earl of Suffolk, &c.

Shooting, by Lord Walsingham, &c. 2 vols.

Cyclrag. By Viscount Bury.

Athletics and Football. By Montague Sherman, &C.

Boating. By W. B. Woodgate, &c.

Cricket. By A. G. Steel, &c.

Driving. By the Duke of Beaufort, &c.

*#* Other Volumes in preparation,
Campbell-Walker's Correct Card, or How to Play at Whist. Pep. Svo. is. 6d.
Ford's Theory and Practice of Archery, revised by W. Butt. Svo. 14*.
Francis's Treatise on Fishing in all its Branches. Post Svo. 15*.
Longman's Chess Openings. Fcp. Svo. 2s. 6d.

Pease's The Cleveland Hounds as a Trencher-Fed Pack. Royal Svo. 18*.
Pole's Theory of the Modern Scientific Game of Whist, i'cp. Svo. 2s. 6d.
Proctor's How to Play Whist. Crown Svo. 55.
Ronald's Fly-Fisher's Entomology. Svo. 145.
Cocks's Sea-Fisherman. Post Svo. 6*.

Encyclopedia, DICTIONARIES, AND BOOKS OF
REFERENCE.

Acton's Modem Cookery for Private Families. Fcp. Svo. 4*. 6d.

Ayre's Treasury of Bible Knowledge. Fcp. Svo. 6.?.

Cabinet Lawyer (The), a Popular Digest of the Laws of England. Fcp. Svo. 9*.

Gates's Dictionary of General Biography. Medium Svo. 2Bs.

Guilt's Encyclopaedia of Architecture. Svo. 525. Cid.

Keith Johnston's Dictionary of Geography, or General Gazetteer. 8vo. 42*.

M'Culloch's Dictionary of Commerce and Commercial Navigation. Svo. 63j,

Maunder's Biographical Treasury. Fcp. Svo. 65.

Historical Treasury. Fcp. Svo. 65.

Scientific and Literary Treasury. Fcp. Svo. 65.

Treasury of Bible Knowledge, edited by Ayre. Fcp. Svo. 65.

Treasury of Botany, edited by Lindsey & Moore. Two Parts, 12i.

Treasury of Geography. Fcp. Svo. 65.

Treasury of Knowledge and Library of Reference. Pep. Svo. 61.

Treasury of Natural History. Fcp. Svo. 65.

Quaint's Dictionary of Medicine. Medium Svo. 3l5. Bd., or in 2 vols. 34*.
Reeve's Cookery and Housekeeping. Crown Svo. 55.
Rich's Dictionary of Roman and Greek Antiquities. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d,
Roget's Thesaurus of English Words and Phrases. Crown Svo. Io. 6d.
Which's Popular Tables, by Marriott. Crown Svo. Io. 6d.

WORKS BY MRS, DE SALIS.

Savouries h, la Mode. Fcp. Svo. I5.
Entries h la Mode. Fcp. Svo. I5. 6<7.
Soups and Dressed Fifth k la Mode.
Fcp. Svo. l5. 6d.

Sweets and Supper Dishes, k la Mode.

Fcp. Svo. l5. 6d.
Jesters k la Mode. Fcp. Svo. Is. M.
Vegetables a la Mode. Fcp. Svo. I5. 6d.

LONGMANS, Green, & CO., London and New York.

OF

EDUCATIONAL Woes.

TEXT-BOOKS OF SCIENCE.

FULLY ILLUSTRATED.

Abney'B Treatise on Photography. Fcp. 8yo. 3s. 60,
Anderson's Strength of Materials. 3.?. Sd.
Armstrong's Organic Chemistry. 3^. Gd.
Ball's Elements of Astronomy. 6s.
Barry's Railway Appliances. 3s. 6d.
Bateman's Systematic Mineralogy. 6s.
Descriptive Mineralogy. 6s.
Bloxam and Huntington's Metals. 5s.
Glazebrook's Physical Optics. 6*.
Glazebrook and Shaw's Practical Physics. 6s.
Gore's Art of Electro Metallurgy. 6s.

Griffin's Algebra and Trigonometry. Zs. 6d. Notes and Solutions, 3s. Gd.
Holmes's The Steam Engine. 6.?.
Jenkins's Electricity and Magnetism. 3s. 6d.
Maxwell's Theory of Heat. 3s. 6d.

Terrified's Technical Arithmetic and Mensuration. 3s. Sd. Key, 3t. Gd,
Miller's Inorganic Chemistry. 3*. 6d.
Greece and Shipwright's Telegraphy. 5*.
Rutley's Study of Rocks, a Text-book of Astrology, is. 6d.
Shelley's Workshop Appliances. 45. Gd.
Those's Structural and Physiological Botany. 6*.
Thorpe's Quantitative Chemical Analysis, is, 6d.
Thorpe and Muir's Qualitative Analysis. 3s. 6d.

Tilted's Chemical Philosophy. 3*. 6d. With Answers to Problems. 4i. 6<J.
Unwind's Elements of Machine Design. 6s.
Watson's Plane and Solid Geometry. 3*. 6d.

THE GREEK LANGUAGE.

Bloomfield's College and School Greek Testament. Fcp. 8vo. 5*.
Holland & Lang's Politics of Ai-stole. Post 8vo. 7s. 6d.
Colin's Chief Tenses of the Greek Irregular Verbs. 8vo. 1*.

Pontes Grseci, Stepping-Stone to Greek Grammar. 12mo. 3«. 6d.

Praxis Graeca, Etymology. 12mo. 2s. 6d.

Greek Verse-Book, Praxis jamaica. 12mo. is. 6d.
Farrar's Brief Greek Syntax and Accidence. 12mo. is. 6d.

Greek Grammar Rules for Harrow School. 12mo. I5. fid,
Glare's Notes on Thucydides. Book I. Fcp. sto. 2s. 6d.

LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York.

Hewitt's Greek Examination-Papers. 12mo. 1*. Sd.

Sister's Xenophon's Anabasis, Books I. to III. with Notes. 12mo. St. 6d,

Kennedy's Greek Grammar. 12mo. is. Bd.

Liddell & Scott's English-Greek Lexicon. 4to. 36s. ; Square 12mo. Is. 6d.

MahafEy's Classical Greek Literature. Crown 8vo. Poets, 7s. 6d. Prose "Writers,

7s. 6d.
Morris's Greek Lessons. Square 18mo. Part I. 2s. 6d. ; Part II. Is.
Parry's Elementary Greek Grammar. 12mo. 3s. 6d.

Plato's Republic, Book I. Greek Text, English Notes by Hardy. Crown 8vo. 3s.
Sheppard and Evans's Notes on Thucydides. Crown Svo. 7s. Gd.
Thucydides, Book IV. with Notes by Barton and Chasse. Crown Svo. 5s.
Valpy's Greek Delectus, improved by "White. 12mo. 2s. Gd. Key, 2s. 6d,
White's Xenophon's Expedition of Cyrus, with English Notes. 12mo. 7s. 6d.
"Wilkins's Manual of Greek Prose Composition. Crown Svo. 5s. Key, 6s.

Exercises in Greek Prose Composition. Crown Svo. 4s. 6d. Key, 2s. 6d.

New Greek Delectus. Crown Svp. 3s. Gd. Key, 2s. Gd.

Progressive Greek Delectus. 12mo. is. Key, 2s. Gd.

Progressive Greek Anthology. 12mo. 5s.

Scriptures Attica, Excerpts with English Notes. Crown Svo. 7i. 6d.

Speeches from Thucydides translated. Post Svo. 6s.
Tonga's English-Greek Lexicon. 4to. 21s. ; Square 12mo. 8s. Gd.

THE LATIN LANGUAGE.

Bradley's Latin Prose Exercises. 12mo. 3s. Gd. Key, 5s.

Continuous Lessons in Latin Prose. 12mo. 5s. Key, 5s. 6d.

Cornelius Nepos, improved by White. 12mo. 3s. Gd.

Eutropius, improved by "White. 12mo, 2s. Gd.

Ovid's Metamorphoses, improved by White. 12mo. 4s. Gd.

Select Fables of Phaedrus, improved by White. 12mo. 2s. Gd.
Collins's Chief Tenses of Latin Irregular Verbs. Svo. Is.

Pontes Latinii, Stepping-Stone to Latinii Grammar. 12mo. 3s. 6d.
Hewitt's Latin Examination-Papers. 12mo. Is. Gd.
Sister's Caesar, Books I.- VII. 12mo. 4s, ; or with Reading Lessons, 4s. Gd,

Caesar's Commentaries, Books I.-V. 12mo. 3s. Gd.

First Book of Caesar's Gallic, War. 12mo. Is. Gd.
Terram's Latin Reddenda. Crown Svo. Is. Gd, .

Kennedy's Child's Latin Primer, or First Latin Lessons. 12mo. 24,

Child's Latin Accidence. 12mo. Is.

Elementary Latin Grammar. 12mo. 3s. Gd.

Elementary Latin Reading Book, or Tirocinium Latium. 12mo. 2s.

Latinii Prose, Palaestra Stili Latinii. 12mo. 6s.

Latin Vocabulary. 12mo. 2s. Gd.

Subsidia Primaria, Exercise Books to the Public School Latin Primer.

I. Accidence and Simple Construction, 2s. Gd. II. Syntax, 3s. 6d.

Key to the Exercises in Subsidia Primaria, Parts I. and;iL price 6s.

Subsidia Primaria, III. the Latin Compound Sentence. 12mo. Is.

LONGMANS, GEEEN, & CO., London and New York.



Kennedy's Curriculum Stili Latinii. 12mo. is. 6d. Key, Is. Gd.

Palseatra Latina, or Second Latin Beading Book. 12mo. 5i.

Moody's Eton Latin Grammar. 12mo. 2s. 6d. The Accidence separately, 1*.
Morris's Elementa Latina. Fcp. 8vo. Is. 6d. Key, 2s. 6d.
Parry's Origines Romance, from Livy-with English Notes. Crown 8vo. is.
The Public School Latin Primer. 12mo. 2s. 6d.

Grammar, by Rev, Dr. Kennedy. Post 8vo. 7s. 6i.
Prendergast's Mastery Series, Manual of Latin. 12mo. 2s. Gd.
Rapier's Introduction to Composition of Latin Verse. 12mo. Zs. Gd. Key, 25. Gd.
Sheppard and Turner's Aids to Classical Study. 12mo. 5^. Key, 6*.
Valpy's Latin Delectus, improved by White, 12mo. 25. Gd. Key, 3s, 6d.
Virgil's aeneid, translated into English Verse by Conington, Crown 8vo. 2s.

Works, edited by Kennedy. Crown 8vo. 105. Gd.

— translated into English Prose by Conington, Crown 8vo. 95,
Walford's Progressive Exercises in Latin Elegiac Verse. 12mo. 25. Gd. Key, 5s.
White and Riddle's Large Latin-English Dictionary. 1 vol. 4to. 2l5.

White's Concise Latin-Eng. Dictionary for University Students, Royal 8vo. 125.

Junior Students' Eng.-Lat. & Lat.-Eng. Dictionary. Square 12mo. 55.

RpnnrptPiv / '^'^^ Latin-EngHsh Dictionary, price 35.
separately ^ ^j^^ English-Latin Dictionary, price 35.
Yonge's Latin Gradus. Post 8vo. 95. ;^ or with Appendix, 125.

WHITE'S Grammar-school GREEK TEXTS.

Mso-p (Fables) & Palsephatus (Myths).

32mo, l5.
Empires, Hecuba. 25,
Homer, lad, Book I. l5,

Odyssey, Book I. 1*.
Lucian, Select Dialogues. l5.
Xenophon, Anabasis, Books I. Ill, IV.

V, & VI, l5. Gd. each ; Book II. I5, ;

Book VII. 25.

Xenophon. Book I. without Vocabulary.
3d.

St. Matthew's and St. Luke's Gospels.
25. dd. each.

St. Mark's and St. John's Gospels.
l5. 6d. each.

The Acts of the Apostles. 2s. Gd.

St, Paul's Epistle to the Romans. I5. Gd.

The Four Gospels in Greek, with Greek-English Lexicon. Edited by John T.
White, Dad. Oxon. Square 32mo. price 55. .

WHITE'S Grammar-school LATIN TEXTS.

Caesar. Gallic War, Books I. & II. V.

& VI. l5. each. Book I. without

Vocabulary, 3d.
Caesar, Gallic War, Books III. & IV.

9d. each.
Caesar, Gallic War, Book VII. 1*. Gd.
Cicero, Cato Major (Old Age). I5, Gd.
Cicero, Lanius (Friendship). I5, Gd.
Eutropins, Roman History, Books I.

& II. l5. Books III. & iV. l5,
Horace,Odes, Books I. II. & IV. I5. each,
Horace, Odes, Book III. I5. Gd.
Horace, Epodes and Carmen Secular.

l5.

Repos, Miltiades, Simon, Pausanias,

Aristides. 9d.
Ovid. Selections from Epistles and

Fasti. l5.
Ovid, Select Myths from Metamorphoses.

9d.
Phaedrus, Select Easy Fables,
Phaedrus, Fables, Books I, & 11. I5.
Sallust, Bellum Catilinarium, I5, Gd,
Virgil, Georgic, Book IV. I5.
Virgil, ^neid, Books I. to VI. I5. each.

Book I. without Vocabulary, 3d.
Virgil, ^neid. Books VII. to XII.

I5. Gd. each.

LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York.

THE FRENCH LANGUAGE.

AlbiWs's How to Speak French. Fcp. 8vo. 5s. 6d.

Instantaneous French Exercises. Fcp. 2s. Key, 2s.
Cassel's French Genders. Crown 8vo. 35. 6d.
Vassal & Archer's Graduated French Translation Book. Part I. 3*. 6d,

Part II. 5j. Key to Part I. by Professor Vassal, price 5*.
Contanseau's Practical French and English Dictionary. Post 8vo. Ss. 6d.

Pocket French and English Dictionary. Square ISmo. Is. 6d.

Premieres Lectures. 12mo. 25. Gd.

Fii-st Step in French. 12mo. 25. Qd. Key, 35.

French Accidence. 12mo. 25. Gd.

— Grammar. 12mo. 45. Key, 35.
Contanseau's Middle-class French Course. Fcp. Svo. :—

French Translation-Book, 8i.
Easy French Delectus, 8d.
First French Reader, 8d.
Second French Reader, 8d.
French aud English Dialogues, 8d.

Accidence, 8d.
Syntax, 8d.

French Conversation Book, 8d.
First French Exercise-book, Sd.
Second French Exercise Book, Sd
Contanseau's Guide to French Translation. 12mo. 35. Gd. Key 3*. 6d.

Privateers et Pontes Francis. 12mo. 55.

Precis de la Literature Franchise. 12mo. 35. Gd,

Abr^g6 de Histoire de France. 12mo. 25. Gd.

rival's Chouans et Bleus, with Notes by C. Sankey, M-A. Fcp. Svo. 2s. M.

Terram's Sentences for Translation into French. Cr. Svo. 1*. Key, 2s. 6d.

Prendergast's Mastery Series, French. 12mo. 25. Gd.

Souvestre's Philosophe sous les Torts, by Sti^venard. Square ISmo. l5. 6d.

Stepping-Stone to French Pronunciation. ISmo. l5.

Sti^venard's Lectures Franchises from Modern Authors. 12mo. is. 6d.

Rules and Exercises on the French Language. 12mo. Zs. Gd,

Carver's Eton French Grammar. 12mo. 65. Gd.

THE GERMAN LANGUAGE.

Blacker's Practical German and English Dictionary. Post 8vo. 2s, 6d,
Buchheim's German Poetry, for Repetition. ISmo. I5. Gd.
Collins's Card of German Irregular Verbs. Svo. 25.
Fischer-fischer's Elementary German Grammar. Fcp. Svo. 2*. Gd,
Just's German Grammar. 12mo. I5. Gd.

German Reading Book. 12mo. 35. Gd.
Longman's Pocket German and English Dictionary. Square ISmo. 2s, 6d.
Castel's Elementary German Course for Public Schools. Fc^Svo.

German Prose Coi§^|«ition Book. 9i.
First German Reader. 9d.
Second German Reader. 9d,

German Accidence. 9d.

German Syntax. M.

First German Exercise-book. 5d.

Second German Exercise-book, dd
Prendergast's Mastery Series, German. 12mo. 25. Gd
Quick's Essentials of German. Crown Svo. 35. Gd.
Sells's School Edition of Goethe's Faust. Crown Svo. 5s.

Outline of German Literature. Crown Svo. 45. Gd,

With's German Chit-Chat. Crown Svo. 25. Gd.

LONGMANS, GREEN, & CO., London and New York.

SpotUsvcoode 1: Co. Printers, N^w-Unret Square, London.

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS



R39so

V.2

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sonofstarromance02richa

SON OF A State

VOL. II.

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

SON OF A STAR

A Romance OF THE SECOND CENTURY

BY

BENJAMIN Ward RICHARDSON

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. n.

Ficta voluptas cavsd sit proxima veris' — Hoi;

LONDON
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.

AND NEW York : 15 EAST IG"' Street
188B

All rig/it.<: referred

CONTENTS

OP

THE SECOND VOLUME.

Chapter Page

I. THE LAST ENEMY

II. ASHES TO ASHES

III. IMPERIAL TASKS

IV. A March THROUGH BRITAIN

V. THE NOVIOMAGIANS

VI. LOVE AND LEVIATHAN

VII. ANTINOUS AND FAME

VIII. LATENT WAR

IX. IN LIGHT AND IN SHADOW .

X. ROMAN AND JEW

XI. AN AMBASSADOR FROM C^SAR

XII. THE MISSION TO ITS CLOSE

XIII. ANTINOUS NO MORE

XIV. BETROTHED TO FATE . . .

XV. TO EITHER, * THE HOUSE OF LIBERTY ' .































CHAPTEE L

THE LAST ENEMY.

Except the sentinels, the soldiers of the Eoman
encampment are all in their tents as the escort
which bears the relics from the great fire
enters the eastern gate. Here, acting under
orders, the members of the escort proceed at
a slow and quiet pace to their own quarters,
dismount with equal quietude, litter down
their steeds, pile their arms, and leaving the
trophies they have carried in the possession
of their leader, straightway seek their own
tents.

Severus remains a log, and Tinnius Eufus
disturbs his companions by laughing at him
n his sleep.
VOL. n. n

Fidelis the centurion, one hundred years
and one day old, les in the arms of death,
and Huldah sits by his couch.

Tryphon the physician has prepared her
for what is to come, has foreshadowed the hour
of the great struggle : has told her that when
the candle that marks the night has burned
down three lines more the hour is at hand.

The first line has already burned away.

She is murmuring in gentle voice one of
the songs of her childhood and, as if adapting
it to the fate of a Eoman about to depart,
sings it in the Latin tongue : —

Great travail is there for man,
A heavy yoke on sons of men ;
From the womb of their mother
Back to the mother of all.
They think of things to come,
And of the day of death ;
From him who sitter on a throne
To him who is humbled in ashes ;
From him in purple and a crown
To him in a frock of cloth.
For the earth must return to the earth
As the waters return to the sea.'

She ceases on hearing the sound of steps
behind her, and a voice, commanding but
gentle in tone, breaking in upon her.

Sing on, sweet watcher, that sweet song ;
it is a message of truth whoever revealed it.'

She rises, turns to the speaker, and bends
low before him. Hadrian ! The Caesar.

Be seated, child,' adds the Emperor, ' and
bend with me to the King who is mightier
than I.'

And over the dying soldier, in presence of
that mightier king, the ruler of the Empire
with head uncovered bends, with the Jewish
maiden, to the unseen conqueror of life.

Bringing her lips near to the ear of the
dying centurion she whispers the one word :
fear.'

The effect of the word is magical over the
prostrate man at the gate of death.

By an effort unexpected and seemingly
supernatural he rises from his couch, glances
eagerly at the laurel chaplet that has a few
hours before encircled his brow, as if to see
that it is safe by his side, seizes his spear
at his right hand, raises himself to his feet,
and stands erect, Hke a true soldier, before

the Commander of all the Lesions.

I—

The last act of reverence and duty.
The last act of a brave soldier.

It is the truest, highest homage that ever
Hadrian has received. Incense has been
burnt to him as to a god ; men have fallen
at his feet ; but this is the incense of the heart,
the homage of the most faithful in its fullest
acceptation.

It is but a momentary homage, the dying
flicker of soldierly duty ; for were it not
for Hadrian's and Huldah's help Fidelis had
fallen to the earth. They lay him once more
on his couch, and soon, breathing more freely,
he shows signs of returning power. Another
flicker of the expiring flame.

He makes no second attempt to rise, but
with feeble gesture requests Huldah to retire
that he and Hadrian may be left alone.

The conference between these two remarkable
representatives of Eoman rule and
power is so prolonged that before it ceases
the candle burns nearly to the line of fate.

What transpires in that conference need
not now be told, but it may be related that
from the same hour the conduct of Hadrian towards
Huldah, the maiden of Israel, undergoes
a change which shapes his destiny and hers.

A call from Hadrian brings the maiden

back to the side of the centurion. The time
has truly come ; the candle is burning to the
death Hne, and Fidehs is bearing it company'.

The hand of the centurion of one hundred
years and one day is grasped in the hand of
the Emperor of the World.

Huldah smooths the pillow of the couch,
and Emperor and maiden, each with tearful
eyes, watch for the end.

What, child, are the words he is saying ?
Bend down thine ear, and listen and tell me.'

Fidelis of Caesarea.'

The watchword of the night.

The candle burns to the appointed line,
and now at the back of the Emperor appears
Tryphon the physician.

Fidehs of Caesarea ! ' once more murmurs
the sinking man, but so inaudibly that tlje
movement of his lips rather than the sounds
produced give the watchword.

The watchword of the night.

The candle burns below the line and holds
its own. The Emperor, the physician, the
maiden burn on, and hold their own.

Fidelis of one hundred years and one day
holds his own no more.

Chapter II.

ASHES TO ASHES.

It is one of the chief characteristics of the
illustrious man who at this time rules over
the Empire of Eome, for him to enter with an
ardour almost approaching to fanaticism into
any and every cause he has espoused. It is
said of him that he is made up of causes.

Let the Emperor take up a thing, and the
thing is done : let him take up a person, and
that person is made. By these extremes of
action he is wearing out his peace of mind ;
is wearying of the world at one moment, is
finding some new and absorbing diversion the
next which fills him for a time and leaves him
emptier than ever. Three things save him
from complete collapse, his strength of will, his
versatility, and the perfect simplicity of his life.

By this period, although he has been but a

short time the wearer of the imperial purple,
he is almost tired of the cares of it. To rest
at Eome in dignity and splendour were quite
impossible. Neither his restlessness nor his
simplicity of living could bear that strain.
He is, therefore, always on the travel; he
is determined to see every thing and every
people under the sway of his sceptre. If the
senate at the centre of the empire presumes
to dispute his ruling he will soon be back
with them and will measure their power. The
senate is closeted with luxury, he is outwith
the army, but so well organised is the
army through all its parts, that he is in continuous
touch with Eome. A living chain of
communication extends from him to every
part of his dominions.

The versatility of his movements is the
reflex of the versatility of his nature. He
knows something of everything, and he discusses
with everybody, however simple, however
learned, that which each one knows best.
If he is wrong he still discusses, and woe be
to the man who corrects him. Favoring, a
mathematician, disputes with him on a mechanical
problem, and leaves him as if he were

the victor. Why, ask the friends of the
philosopher, did you give way to the man
when you were so easily shown to be right ?
How, asks the mathematician in return, how
can I be right before that ruler of thirty legions,
who killed Appolodorus, the architect,
for criticising a fort which he, the ruler, had
devised ?

To these traits of mastery over men and
fortune Hadrian adds others which greatly
influence his career. He is touched to the
very heart with superstitious sentiments, and
at this moment is more than usually under
their spell. In his early career he visited the
Syrian temple of Apollo near Antioch, from
whence flowed the Castilian stream. Into that
stream he dropped a leaf of an immortal
plant, and from the signs left on the leaf read,
through a priestess of the magnificent pile, his
life to come. Hitherto that prophetic reading
has, in some mysterious manner, been
correctly carried out ; at least he thinks it
has, which is quite sufficient, and now a
new sentence of it is, to his mind, being faithfully
unfolded.

He had read that he would one day meet

a maiden of divine power who should be
deeply learned in religious mysteries, who
should perform miraculous deeds, who should
be recognised and named for what she could
do, who, preserved in purity by his will, should
save him from great danger, who should die
for his safety and sake, and living again for
his fame should carry his name with hers to
all posterity.

Whenever she appears let him, Hadrian,
take her under his solemn protection, save
her from all risk as a priestess of a divine
mission, put her in any disguise to keep her
from evil, and never more leave him whose
life she shall, in recompense, preserve from
peril of violent death.

It is a supreme moment with Hadrian.
Death he fears not, nay, he sometimes yearns
for it, if it would come softly and like a
shadow ; but a violent death that he shrinks
from fearfully. Trajan, a soldier, courted
such a death ; Hadrian, a philosopher, dare
not even contemplate it.

It is a supreme moment : the prophecy
is once more being fulfilled : the predicted
maiden is found : some even call her divine ;

with his own eyes he has seen her perform
one of the supreme miracles known to man.
She has cast out an evil spirit. It may be she
could raise the dead !

Huldah, clad in robes of mourning, stands
before him in his own tent, to which she has
been summoned. He accosts her by her
name, the name of the prophetess after whom
she is called.

Tell me, Huldah, canst thou cast out all
evil spirits ? '

Yea, my lord, when the evil spirit doth
declare itself to men.'

Canst thou read mysteries ? '

Yea, my lord, many mysteries ! '

Canst thou forecast events ? '

Yea, my lord.'

Couldst thou raise the dead centurion to
life?'

Yea, my lord, I did so, that my lord might
speak with him, but he wished it not again,
so his spirit is now far away in the regions
where there is no darkness, and his body is
laid ready for the pyre.'

Thy words are wise. The ashes of Fidelis

alone shall remain on the earth with a stone
for his name.'

The smile of triumph which lighted up
her face is followed by a look not of fear, that
were impossible, but of supplication.

He reads it as such, and asks with subdued
eagerness : —

Maiden, can I serve thee ? '

You can even save me,' was the firm
reply.

From what or whom ? '

Severus.'

By all the Caesarss, I interpreted him
aright,' thought Hadrian, as he recalled the
incidents of the previous day.

Then, turning to her, he made with her an
imperial contract, closer, holier than any he
had made before with . any king or potentate
whatsoever.

Trust me, maiden ; obey what I shall
command, however strange it be to thee, and
thou art safe as the holiest virgin of the most
sacred Temple.

In return thou must abide ever near tome,
and guide me in mine hours of need by
thy foreknowledge and wisdom.

And, if I bid thee change thy name and
semblance of thy sex thou must obey.'
I am at my lord's command.'

Huldah is returning from the imperial
tent as Severus enters. He hears her receive
the imperial permission that Fidelis shall have
public funeral rites, and so soon as he is alone
with his master he takes charge of the promise
as an imperial order, and goes forth to see it
executed. So in a few short hours it happens
that the camp, which was a scene of such
wild festivity, is transformed into a scene of
mourning and sorrow.

A spear turned point downwards into the
earth, and carrying a small dark banner, a
mere strip, but sufficient when many times
repeated to cause a saddening gloom, is at the
door of every tent. But the gloom of glooms
is the silence ; the musical instruments are
all silent, the new watchword of the sentinels
In spaces is said in a whisper, and out of his
quarters no man speaks a word. The men
who, in the great arena, prepare the pyre
communicate to each other by signs, their
voices are still.

The gallants of the night before, in their
fretfulness, keep to their couches and console
themselves with wine. Milo of the menagerie
keeps the wolves and other wild beasts quiet
by plying them well with food.

Fabius and Tibullus remain in their
quarters, and amuse themselves by old stories
in which Severus and the Emperor play a
leading part.

Saserna composes a dismal dirge.

Eufus with quiet delight visits his virago,
to enjoy the sight of seeing her afraid to
open her mouth, and is so pleased with the
effect that for the first time for many months
he gives her a warm caress, to the virago's
wonder, and, to speak honestly, happiness.

Severus returns to his home in the pine
wood, and nourishing a thousand jealousies of
Caesar, and planning battles to come, studies
maps and plans, arranges trophies, and drinks
wine.

The Emperor is closeted with Tryphon
his trusted physician and friend, and as their
consultation affects this history deeply, let us
listen to them a moment as they converse.

The Emperor has told his friend the story

of the prophecy of the priestess of the temple
near to Antioch, and Tryphon readily feeds
the conviction his master entertains, while
like a philosopher he himself scorns the
superstition attached to it.

I knew that priestess,' says he, ' she was
very wise, she read the very hearts of men ;
once she was beautiful, as beautiful as any of
my race, to which she belonged ; so beautiful
that Trajan himself almost died for her love.
Had his Empress, the revengeful Platina,
known of her, I fear me. Prince, that all her
charms, divine and human, had not saved her.'

For some moments the Emperor thought
intensely over these words. They were a new
light to him ; then he broke the silence by a
passing observation.

His love, my Tryphon, had been thrown
away on the priestess of Daphne.'

Nay ! nay ! nay ! if so I may speak. That
woman loved Trajan even to madness, even to
death.'

Once more the Emperor was deep in
thought. At length he rose, and pushing
away the papers and books which lay before
him he turned to another topic.

Tryphon, I want thy aid.'

The will of Caesar rules his servant.'

It is a service delicate and requiring all
thy skill.'

Whatever skill I have is thine.'

the dead man, Tryphon, the centurion
Fidelis of a hundred years for a few moments
rose from death at the command of that
maiden whom they call Huldah, in order to
leave her in sacred charge to my care, and,
mark the words, to my care for my own
safety.'

And you accepted the charge ? '

With all the heart of Caesar.'

It is well, the woman is wise. She is
learned in all the knowledge of Egypt and all
the books of our father Israel. What wouldest
thou of the maiden ? '

Let the prophecy concerning her be fulfilled.
Let her remain ever by my side.'

'Twere dangerous. Prince, in whatever
innocence it were done. The Empress would
never forgive.'

I know it too well, but there is even a
greater danger.'

Thou meanest in Julius Severus.'

'I do. He loves the maiden with such
madness that he would make her his lawful
wife and do anything she might demand; failing
in that he would place her with the dead
rather than see her amongst the Having as
another one's belonging.'

The words of Caesar are most true.'

Therefore I want thy skill. Transform
the maiden into a youth who may without
suspicion attend on me.'

You ask a miracle.'

Nay, my good Tryphon, if I asked for a
miracle, to her, not to thee, should I apply ;
to thee I turn for earthly miracles, which
thou canst perform so well.'

Let my lord point the way.'

In Bithynia thou brightest to me from
thy friend Pliny a youth, the very second self
of this maiden, the youth we call Anxious.
During this coming funereal rite let Huldah
assume the dress of this youth, his name, and
afterwards his office as cup-bearer to me. For
Antinous himself find a mission far away ; let
him have means and, under a new name, the
chance to win a soldier's fortune. Of ambition
he has more than enough; of reticence the

-firmness of a diamond. A single letter will
change his name ; bid him in his new career
be Antoninus and all will go well. He has
the genius for disguise from a slave to an
emperor.'

And Huldah, my lord ? '

Let it appear that she has fled after the
Jew who ran as the living torch.'

But his remains are found ; 'twere vain
for her to follow him.'

Nay, there thou tripped, Tryphon ; a
woman thinks nothing vain in love. The
madder the act the more likely is the act to
be accredited. Moreover, she may not have
known of the remains when she fled away.'

Caesar were a soothsayer were he not
Caesar. It shall all be done. To-night
Huldah, the maiden of Caesarea, for 'twas
there she was born, shall be Antinous the
favourite cup-bearer of the emperor of all
the world.'

These designs for the change in her career
have been made, and Huldah sits by the side
of the dead Fidelis, waiting for the decline of
the sun and the lighting of the pyre. Strange

VOL. II. c

and even to herself inscrutable are her own
thoughts. She has conversed with Hadrian
as she had never conversed before with anyone.
She has been visited by the learned
Tryphon, has heard from him the part she
is to play, and has freely consented to the
proposition.

She has pledged herself to obedience to
the will of Caesar in all honour. He is a man
and a prince, and yet she trusts him. She will
do his will and serve him, and if the prophecy
be true she will save him from a violent
death. Then her services to him are fulfilled,
and Simeon and her people are her
future masters.

She has heard of the return of the search
party, and although the finding has not been
publicly proclaimed she has been told of it.
It affects her no wise anxiously, for she is
firm in her faith that no mortal hand can kill
Simeon, her beloved and only absolute lord.

Yet while she believes with all her heart,
her reason is on the outlook ; she listens as
if she were waiting for tidings that shall
confirm her. beliefs.

The tidings come.

Eli the faithful enters the tent, kneels
reverently with head uncovered to the corpse
of Fidelis, and then still kneeling bends to his
divine mistress.

Oh happy mistress of one so truly faithful !

She gives him her hand to rise and feels
the thrill, the unconscious thrill that crosses
it. He seats himself before her, as to her, with
palpitating heart, he tells his adventure.

He has obeyed her commands to the letter.
He has followed Simeon, has seen his rescue,
has seen the Eoman soldiers fooled, and
has left him travelling westward with his deliverers
and guides, happy as he is safe with
them, and as if he were their own !

Quiet, palpitating heart ; no, not so suddenly
quiet, or thou wilt, for a moment, stop
and betray thy secret to him who of all others
must not guess it.

The mind conquers as Huldah with studied
serenity thanks her friend ; then she confides
to him her new destiny and asks him if, for a
season, freedman as he is, he will serve her still.

It is a foregone conclusion that he should
assent. What shall be his next service ?

Follow, faithful Eli, follow those fugitives,

c2

and from them, from time to time, come tome.
Wherever Hadrian shall be there am I, as
Actions his favourite cup-bearer. From the
moment when the fire leaps up over the body
of yon dead man Huldah will have left the
camp, as all shall believe save Hadrian, his
physician, Tryphon, thou and I. 'Twill be easy
at all times to find the resting place of Caesar.'
He kneels once more as she extends her
hand, kisses it with trembling lips, and in a
moment is gone on his further mission, the
truest messenger of love and duty that earth,
in most heavenly mood, ever gave forth toman
or woman born.

Maiden, still clad in thine own attire, rise
from thy seat of mourning, put on thy new
attire, and transform thyself into a man.

Truly thou art a cup-bearer worthy of
Caesar !

The sun is going down, and there is some
gentle noise in the camp as of men solemnly
and silently gathering in array. Over that
boy's attire cast thy woman's habit of mourning,
shroud thy temples and place thyself at the
head of Fidelis, for tl^e bier and the bearers

come with muffled step and voiceless lips to
carry him forth.

On the breast of the old centurion rests
his laurel crown, and by his side the long-used
sword, the viris, the spear. His armour is on
him as if he were going forth to fight another
foe.

Huldah, as chief mourner, precedes the
bier.

Outside the tent the bearers rest a moment
for all to form in order.

At the foot of the bier, habited as a plain
soldier, is Hadrian with his head uncovered.
Behind him the white-robed priests ; behind
them Severus, and behind him all the chiefs
of the Imperial and vice-Imperial household.
Only two march out of the rank, Saserna as
master of the ceremonial and his marshal or
trumpeter.

The troops hne the way on each side in
double column from the encampment into the
arena, the place of the pyre. Their spears
are turned point downwards to the earth, and
their uncovered heads are bent in reverence
to the dead.

Why asks Fabian of the ruddy Tinnius,
why do not the priests chant and pour forth
the incense to Philo and the infernal gods ? '

Because,' answers Eufus, who even in this
solemn moment can hardly suppress a smile,
', because the infernal gods have told Caesar
they don't wish it, and Caesar has told the
priests, and Fidelis has left no money for their
pious frauds. Huldah is the high priestess
this time. Listen to her voice.'

As they march on, the troops falling in and
following in order, she chants in low voice a
plaint of a Chaldean song : —

Man that is born of a woman
Is of few days and full of trouble.

He Cometh forth as a flower and is cut down,
He fleet as a shadow and continued not.

Man diet and waste away,

Yea, he giveth up the spirit, and where is he 1

As the waters fail from the sea

And the flood decayed and drieth up,

So man lieth down and riseth not
Till the heavens be no more.

They shall not awake

Nor be raised out of their sleep.'

The song continues until the cortege
reaches the arena. Reverently and gently
the dead body of Fidelis with all that belongs
to it, is laid on the pyre.

The soldiers form around the pyre in a
semi-circle, with the Emperor, Severus, and
their officers in the centre. Huldah moves
round to the opposite side of the pyre, where
she stands majestically alone.

The sun has fallen, the light of day is sinking
into gloom, and heavy clouds of darkness
hang like curtains of mourning around, yet
spitting forth their tongues of lightning and
of portending storm.

Saserna gives a sign ; the trumpet peals
forth ; a youth belonging to the train of the
Emperor bears to him, the central figure of
the group, an unlighted torch. Then he gives
a lighted torch to Severus, who with it lights
that which has been handed to Cesare

second, a third blast from the trumpet
and Caesar with his own hand sets the pyre
aflame.

The furze that forms the basis of the pyre
begins to crackle and blaze, the clouds of
mourning grow denser, and distant thunder

rolls ; the fire and smoke begin to ascend.
Huldah stands alone, as if she would leap into
the flames from the raised mound on which
her feet rest.

Suddenly she breaks forth into loud song,
before which the white-robed priests behind
Hadrian bend in awe, it is so weird and
wonderful : —

His eyes are the eyelids of the morning,
Out of his mouth go burning lamps,
And sparks of fire leap out.

Out of his nostrils goeth smoke,
And a flame goeth out of his mouth.

The arrow cannot make him flee,
Sling stones are with him as stubble ;
Darts are counted as stubble.
He laughed at the shaking of a spear.

He maketh a path to shine after him,
A king above all the children of pride.

Where is the way where light dwelleth 1 '

As she repeats this last line with increasing
richness and fulness of voice, the pyre rises into
such vivid blaze and brightness that they around
it retire backwards from it, and the lonely
singer is hidden by it from their view. Yet

still her voice is heard, as again with stronger
emphasis it asks of the consuming dead :
Where is the way where light dwelleth ]

The fire begins to fade, and the Emperor
prepares to leave. At the trumpet-call a centurion
proceeds to tell out his hundred men to
surround and watch out the fire, and gather
the ashes of him of a hundred years. The
handsome youth who brought the torch has
been to the tent to fetch a cloak for Hadrian,
for the air is becoming cold. The youth returns,
and with grace and dignity places the
cloak on the shoulders of Caesar ; and, followed
by the rest, marches with him back to
the encampment.

It is Hadrian's hour for repose, and receiving
the salutations of Severus and the officers
at the door of his pavilion he retires from the
scene.

Severus retire? also to his quarters, but not
to rest. Much wine lashes him into a demon.
He paces the floors of his house alone, impatient
of news that is to come.

The footsteps of a guard at last break his
fury, and the captain of the guard stands
before him pale and tremulous.

The woman is what I want before me,
not thou alone ; why deepest thou her back
an instant ? '

My lord '

The woman, I tell thee ; let me see that
thou hast her safe ? '

My lord, she is not '

*What mayest thou, miscreant?' screams
the furious Severus, as he lays his hand on
his sword. ' If thou mayest she has escaped
I will smite thee to the earth.'

'My breast is open to thee,' rejoins the
soldier, now no longer in fear ; ' let Severus
smite to death his faithful Varus, but the
truth must be told : the Jewish maiden,
Huldah, is not in the encampment.'

Eeturning his sword to his side, Severus
gasps the words, ' Go on, tell everything.'

'The Jewish maiden Huldah disappeared
as her voice died away before the pyre of
Fidelis ; 'tis thought she leaped into the flames
and died by his side.

Let not a scruple of the ashes of that
fire be left unturned in search for any fragment
of her that may remain. Away ! in every
quarter double the watches, and, until the

broad day, permit not one person, not C^sar
himself, to leave the camp. He is only a
soldier, and none need know him as Caesar.'

The officer, the most trusted of all who
worshipped Julius Severus, and he had his
worshippers, as all great men have, hastened
to his duty, leaving his master once more to
himself and his master's master, wine.

Fool that I am, fooled! fooled! But
for thee I were fear, and Hadrian nowhere.
I'll touch thee never more, thou flagon
thief ! I'll cast thee forth from the pure vase
that holds thee as that woman I worship casts
out demons. She, and she alone, would save
me from thy friendship. But she is not, and
thou art ! Thy breath is sweet, thy colour entrancing,
thy taste precious. One final love.

In his haste, the flagon thief is raised to
his conquered lips without being measured
forth even in the goblet. And Severus the
soldier is once more Severus the log.

CHAPTER in.

IMPERIAL TASKS.

The journey wliicli Hadrian is now making
through the remote island of Britain gives
rise to many a flying and an unexpected visit.
A few years previously, three years after he
mounted the throne on the death of Trajan,
Hadrian had travelled through the island on
a tour which he rendered historical by commencing
during it the construction of a wall
destined to extend from Tunnocelum to
Segedunum, a line of seventy-four Eoman
miles, for protecting the Britannic part of
the island from the M^Batse who invaded it
constantly from the north.

Anxious to see how this great work is
progressing, Hadrian, being in Gaul, comes
over to Britain with a small guard, and in
such haste that he carries with him little
more than the common soldier's garb in

which he usually travels. He enjoys the
journey. To fall in upon his generals and
see the encampments suddenly and without
notice or ceremonial is the very thing that
suits his versatile humour. He has now dropt
on Julius Severus, a man for whose military
skill he has the profoundest admiration, and
for whom, in all else, he has the most utter
contempt, amounting to personal dislike. It
delights him therefore that he has outwitted
Severus in strategy, has found out his deepest
secret, and has stolen, literally, his heart.

The Emperor, according to his custom,
rises with the sun, and workmen are speedily
closeted with him taking an order from his
own lips and hand. The ashes of Fidelis are
to be placed in an urn, and over the urn there
is to be set a block of stone. On one side of
the stone there is to be carved a bold relief of
the centurion four feet high and that will last
for ages. It is to show the man in his power,
with his armour, sword and viris, and below
is to be inscribed word for word what he
the Caesar incites, signed with the dipla > or
triangle without a base, the symbol of a
centurion.

Stadia Villainous T. V. POL.

FIDELIS > LEG. II. AUG.

Hadrian IMP. Polit.

H. S. E.

Visit Annie CENTUM.

It tells in that Stadia Villainies, son of
Stadia Villainies of the tribe Polka, was a centurion
called Fidelis of the second Augustan
Legion ; that the monument was erected by
the Emperor Hadrian ; that the ashes of Fidelis
rest under the monument [Hie Situs Est) ; and
that he was a hundred years old.

This arranged, the order goes forth that
all the encampment is to pass before Caesar in
review, with Severus in command.

Tinnius Eufus bears the order to Severus.

Saserna, the Editor of Ceremonies, receives
the next instruction, namely, that after the
review the Emperor will sup with Severus and
the chief officers, and on the following morning
at sunrise will depart with his retinue towards
the north to the great wall.

The drowsy Severus receives the Imperial
message with wooden stohdity ; but Eufus
knows his man, and leads him slowly and

surely into action. A prayer is sent to the
Emperor that the review may be delayed
until noon, and the prayer is readily granted.

C^sar with his suite will ride into the
country, while Severus puts the troops into
order.

Caesar rides forth, Antinous by his side
mounted on a charger somewhat smaller but
as spirited as the charger which he himself
bestrides.

By Jupiter, how grandly the new
Antinous sits in the saddle ! Such skill, such
art, such mastery ! It must be the first hour
for putting forth such accomplishment, but
the skill is matchless.'

Tryphon, also mounted and near the
Emperor, sees the effect, and shares in the
admiration.

Tryphon, this Antinous is truly divine ;
'tis blasphemy to change that title.'

Nay, Prince, the title is not materially
changed as to its meaning ; the term Antinous
by its native original sense means " before
of us ; " it now revives its first intention.'

Fate, like water, finds its own level, my
Tryphon. But tell me something of these

miraculous gifts. I have read that when
Vespasian was in Alexandria they brought
to him a blind and a lame man ; that he
anointed the eyes of the blind man with
spittle and lifted the hand of the lame man ;
whereupon the blind man was at once enabled
to see and the lame man to walk. Thickest
thou that to be true ? '

'Tis well vouched for by those who were
present.'

- ' Thickest thou that these powers, which
our new Antinous owns, could be transferred
to me ? '

In the presence of Antinous they might,
but not otherwise.'

Would that we could try them.'

V'Tis easily done. In a village near lives
a worker in clay, a native prince of great
skill and fame. He hath lost the use of his
hands, and my fame having gone roimd as
thy physician, his friends have sought my aidin
vain. I would gladly be outdone by Caesar
should they call for his interposition.'

It is the will of Caesar to visit the house
of the worker in clay straightway.

For the remainder of the journey, Antinous

and Tryphon ride side by side. They converse
in their native Hebrew tongue. They seem
to have some dispute, in which Tryphon
laughs at his comrade's sturdy belief and self-confidence,
but in the end appears to accept,
with reservation, what is told to him ; and
so, understanding each other, they reach their
destination.

Segonax the potter, descendant of one who
had fought against the first Caesar, is sitting in
his workshop, his glorious works of art in clay
surrounding him, as this latest of Caesar
enters. His hands droop helplessly by his side ;
the wheel and the clay are before lira, and his
feet can work the wheel, but his hands cannot
touch or work the clay.

The wife of Segonax hears who visits them,
and soon she and the other women ask, ' Cannot
Caesar cure a palsied man ? '

If thou shouldst fail, great king, the blame
be with us. But try thy power, it may be
great.'

Antinous stands beside the Caesar, wrapt
in trance, holding his left hand. Hadrian
hesitates ; then, with his own right hand

VOL. II. . D

he takes up first the right, next the left,
hand of Segonax and bids him resume his
labour.

It is the work of a moment ; Segonax
believes and his faith heals him. He clutches
the clay, and, to the Emperor's proud delight,
a vase of exquisite form is being shaped for
him by the hands he has restored to activity
and skill.

No, not hands restored by him, but by
Antinous the divine, the ' before all of us.'

Let the vase be cast in gold. Let Segonax
be a freed man of Eome.'

Let Segonax as a native prince show his
gratitude by coming to Eome as the guest of
Caesar.'

It shall all be as Caesar wills.

Back to the camp in triumph, where, ere
the review commences, it is related far and
wide, with awe and wonder, that Caesar has
restored, by a miracle, the dead hands of
Segonax the potter.

THE REVIEW.

Into the vast plain below the camp,
Severus at their head, the whole encampment

marches. Severus rides like the wind in massing
his troops, so that from the stand where
Hadrian is placed all may be seen in grand
array. Hadrian, nobly mounted, rides well,
but not like Severus. The pride of Severus
must be taken down.

Antinous, in the dress of a Eoman soldier,
rides modestly in the rear of the Imperial
staff,

Caesar calls for Antinous.

Thou art my messenger. Swift as Mercury
convey this message to Severus, and back to
my side.'

Magnificent ! Bearing the flag of Caesar's
messenger Antinous flies through files and
squadrons : rides as if the horse and the rider
were one ; the troops can scarcely restrain
their enthusiasm, and a suppressed cheer does
not escape the ear of the general as the strange
messenger, dowling cap and dropping flag, puts
the message into his hands.

It is a complimentary message, that the
order of the troops is splendid and worthy of
Julius Severus.

Sweet flattery carried on a poisoned dart.
For as the messenger returns, bowing to the

D 2

troops and flying without so much as touching
the rein, they almost recognise Mercury inhuman
form.

Even Severus cannot ride like that, is what
the whole camp feels, and Severus knows it.
Never before was such a thing seen. Caesar
also comments on the riding of Severus in
words which will reach him too soon.

Next to Antinous, Severus is the best
horseman I have ever seen.'

The troops defile before the Prince of menas
if indeed he were more than mortal, Severus
on one side of him, Antinous on the other. It
has long been known that the young Antinous
is a favourite of favourites, but never before
has such attention been shown him. Is it the
skill of horsemanship that has so captivated
the master of the legions ?

Antinous is from Bithynia, and ' all Bithynia
are born on a horse,' is the proverb
which goes from mouth to mouth.

The troops return to the camp, are bidden
to regale at the expense of the Emperor, and
within an hour are hastening to the Praetorium
to listen to or read the Proclamation which
he has sent forth.

A PROCLAMATION.

THE SALUTATION OF HADRIAN TO THE SOLDIERS OF TH
LEGIONS WHICH HAVE PASSED BEFORE HIM THIS DAY.

The discipline, the skill in the use of arms, the
marching order, the firmness, the intelligence, reflect
the supreme credit on all concerned, from the illustrious
general, Julius Severus, to the youngest soldier in the
ranks, and implant the firmest confidence in the heart
of Caesar.

The same shall be conveyed, by special messenger, to
the Senate and to Rome.

Julius Severus is raised to the rank of Governor-general
of all Britain.

Tinnius Rufus is promoted to the personal Staff of
Caesar.

Segonax, the potter, is made a freed man of Rome,
and has restored to him his native princely title for the
great skill he has shown in his ancient art.

Antinous, faithful attendant of Caesar, is made a knight
of the Roman Empire.

Ave C^sar !

Ave Caesar! is the song of the camp as
Saserna concludes the pronouncement of this
proclamation, and young Antinous is the idol
of the hour.

The four gallants, who had been so cruelly
cheated out of the Numidiann bear, declare they
must have Antinous amongst them, and seek
an introduction.

Fabius, Vibullius, Saserna and Eufus, in
the quarters of Eufus, hold a symposium preparatory
-to the great banquet which is to
bid farewell to an Emperor and to introduce
a Governor of all Britain.

They congratulate Eufus as a matter of
course ; they banter him also to their hearts'
content. Fabius suggests, with becoming
gravity, that Caesar has caught a great
satirical poet, and means to crown the illustrious
rival of Juvenal with the laurel, on
return to Eome.

Vibullius believes that Caesar has been
seduced by the virago Boadicea, and suggests
that Eufus will soon be disposed of as Governor
of some remote colony where wives are
not allowed to follow. Saserna, on the other
hand, argues that this elevation of Eufus is a
cleverly devised plot arranged through Severus,
by which he, Eufus, may get away from
Boadicea and leave her in her native country
to do as best she can.

Let him laugh who wins ; nothing that is
said can upset the good nature of the jovial
Need-beard. That he will have some trouble
with Boadicea he knows, for she is a woman as

difficult to take away as to leave behind. But
then he has C^sar at his back ; Caesar's word
is stronger than Boadicea's, and he, therefore,
cannot be blamed for a fate that must be.

Tired of teasing their comrade or finding
that they fail to tease, they turn their tongues
next on the rising sun of Antinous.

Saserna, supposed to know everything, is
called on to tell them who this Antinous is.

Saserna knows no more than that the
favourite came in the train of the Emperor ;
is said to have been born of humble parentage
in Bithynia ; was sent by Pliny the younger,
when he was pro-consul of Bithynia, to Hadrian,
in the first year of his reign, as a boy who
had shown great capacity for natural knowledge
; and that Hadrian, taking a liking to
him, retained him, but never until this day
showed him such marks of favour.

It is one of the fits of Caesar,' observes
Tibullus, ' to take these astounding fancies.
You or I, my Fabius, might live in his sight
for ever and never receive a mark of favour,
but let an Antinous '

Or a Tinnius,' interposed Fabius.

Or a Tinnius ; yes, or a Tinnius,' resumed

Vibullius, ' appear, and up he goes, like a stone
from a catapult.'

To rise truly,' broke in Saserna, ' and as
certainly to fall. Thanks to the gods, including
Hadrian, I have neither to rise nor fall.'

It is not from want of making yourself
heard, Saserna, at all events,' puts in the rosy
host with excellent humour. ' And now,' he
adds, ' if your jealousies are quite appeased
let me remind you that the banquet time
is at hand and that we must attire for it.'

A FEAST.

It is a noble feast served in the banqueting
room of the Praetorium ; for Severus, with
the help of Tinnius and Saserna, can plan a
feast as ably as a siege.

To Hadrian the whole ceremony is a pain.
It is a true pleasure to him to sup with a few
congenial souls, throw off the imperial purple,
argue, laugh, sing, and joke ; but ceremonial,
he is weary of it as he is weary almost of the
world.

Much pleasure hath made him sad, so he
declares every day of his life. It is the open
secret of his restlessness, that he must move

and work in order to live with a clear and
active mind, and without despair.

In a pavilion at the back of the seat of
state placed for the Emperor the various
officers of the encampment are brought to him
for introduction, to all of whom he speaks
kindly and freely. But his mind is gloomy.
The awful words : —

Remember thou art but a man 1 '
muttered at fixed intervals, by the standardbearer
behind him, are like the drops of water
on the head of the condemned in the torture
of the drop-bye drop martyrdom. When will
the torture end ?

Tryphon at respectful distance reads every
line of that sad face, and softly moving round
to the standardbearer whispers him to keep
silence. It is done in the most unassuming
and quiet manner, but Caesar observes it, and
by a look of gladness conveys his thanks to
his wise and honoured physician and friend.

The preliminaries over, every one, except
Caesar, proceeds, in state, to the hall of feasting.

Severus, copying from a native custom, has
had the banqueters seated at the tables instead
of reclining on couches in Eoman fashion.

There are many small tables, each of which
receives men of the same rank.

At the head, under a splendid royal canopy,
is the single table for Caesar with a chair of
state. On a second table, a little lower down,
is the vice-regal place of Severus, to the right
of the Emperor.

On the same level, on the left side, is a
guest also alone as one of princely dignity.

The Emperor's sole guest, Segonax the
Potter !

The gallants standing at their table lower
down are stricken blind, deaf, dumb, dead !
Segonax, whom they in fun rolled in his own
clay but four days agone, and of whom they
left a clay effigy with the hands cut off for
the helpless creature to stare at in his misery !

He the sole guest of the Emperor ! He,
seated on a level with Severus the Governor-general
of all Britain !

It is well the gallants are bereft of sense at
the sight, for did they show any revolt, that
same Caesar who has raised Segonax to greatness
will just as easily let them down to a
still colder place.

True Emperors are true levellers.

And Hadrian knows it.

Vibullius is startled, but Fabius is filled
with admiration. This one act, spread by voice
and voice through every native camp of conquered
Britain, as a fitting sequel to the miracle,
will do more to strengthen the power of
Eome in Britain than a hundred battles won
by Sever us.

The hearts of men are more easily won
than their arms, my Vibullius.'

Tinnius is so delighted he drinks a stoup
of wine on the spot. It is a most unmannerly
thing to touch either meat or drink until Caesar
sets the example ; but Tinnius forgets himself
in thinking how easy this act of Caesar will
make his task with Boadicea, who is a relative
of the potter.

Severn s, in gorgeous toga hemmed with
purple, with one profile to the audience and
another profile to the throne, stands rigid as
marble. He throws a faint smile of recognition
towards Segonax as if he were glad of his
presence, and in his chilled heart he is as
glad as such a heart can let him be ; for this
friendship with a native chief will make his
rule over all Britain as easy as he could wish,

and will give him time to plan conquests over
better foes than British savages.

The trumpets sound : all knees bend ; all
heads are bowed low.

The Caesar enters.

He is still clad in his soldier's garb, but
over it is cast the Imperial robe of purple, and
round his brow is the light oval of laurel, the
crown of the emperors. The sight, so novel to
him in every respect, pleases him ; he takes
up a goblet filled by Antinous, but not with
wine.

Saserna speaks for Hadrian.

Caesar wishes you all health, happiness
and long life, and may the gods command the
feast.'

The sound of a clarion very softly uttered
tells that the Emperor's pledge is drunken and
that he is seated. With one simultaneous 'Ave
Caesar! ' the guests follow his action, and the
feast begins.

Like all feasts imperial and imperial, this
feast soon passes away in fumes of wine and
noise, leaving the usual emptiness behind it.
One incident alone gives to it a peculiarity
belonging to our history.

In the course of the banquet, at the proper
period, the golden goblet used by the Emperor
is removed for a moment, and after its
ablution is replaced by his side.

It is charged by his own hands with the
wine from which he is supplied. The wine
is a thin and acid liquid, but then it is the
wine of C^sar, and who would not relish
that ? Woe be to him who does not.

Antinous on both bended knees holds the
cup while Caesar charges it, and Saserna declares
the imperial will.

To Severus Governor of all Britain, and
to Segonax the Prince and friend of Hadrian.'

Antinous rises, and bearing the cup to
Severus, presents it kneeling on his right knee ;
he then gracefully rises as Severus stands
erect, to accept it from his hands. The cup is
at the very lips of the Governor of all Britain
when the eyes of the Governor meet those of
the cup-bearer !

To the consternation of the Emperor and
of all the company, except the cup-bearer,
the goblet falls from the hands of the Governor

of Britain ; and the hands fall, as once
fell the hands of Segonax.

A worse omen for Julius Severus could
not possibly have inaugurated his new reign.
Even fear pales.

Antinous turns the scale of fortune back
to Severus. Picking up the fallen cup with
infinite grace, he uplifts it to show that not a
drop of wine is spilled.

Marvellous ! Severus may fall but he
cannot be injured ; the wine of his life cannot
flow away. He himself regains his power as
the cheers of his audience and the radiant face
of Caesar re-assure him : he retakes the goblet,
raises it to his lips, bows to his master, and
with averted look returns the cup to the hands
that gave it him.

'He might have thought the cup was
poisoned,' whispers Fabius to Eufus.

His gorge rose at the sour drink,' responds
the Eed beard ; ' wine, not vinegar,
not even imperial vinegar, for Julius Severus.'

He has detected us,' says Hadrian, to
Hadrian.

A woman can conceal all her sex except
her eyes ; and they would betray the wisest

of women to the greatest fool of a man,' says
Tryphon to Tryphon ; ' but this woman has
regained her position as Antinous.'

It was as Tryphon thought. The meeting
of the eyes of the cup-bearer with the eyes of
Severus palsied for the moment the Governor
of Britain. No eyes except one pair could
transfix like those. Yet 'tis impossible ! this
cup-bearer came into the camp with Caesar ;
has long been known as the favourite Antinous
; was sent to Eome from Bithynia by
Pliny the consul, and now is kneeling on the
left knee to Segonax, presenting to him the
goblet as no one who was not trained in a
court and to court ceremonial could. Both
knees to Caesar, the right knee to the Governor,
the left knee to the Guest ; that means
years of culture. Then the horsemanship of
the morning, no woman could have done
that ; curse the rider who did !

A bright thought. This cup-bearer this
Antinous, by some singular fate is the twin
brother of the divine maiden who has gone
no one knoweth where.

Drink more wine, Julius Severus ; let it
confirm thee in this discovery. Bacchus loves

to strengthen his worshippers in their own
conceits. Thou art a great man, Severus.
Bacchus swears it. Thou hast the eye of
a hawk, the grip of a leopard, the wisdom
of an owl, the courage of a lion, the sweep and
swiftness of an eagle. Thou hast, with thy usual
powers, solved the mystery. Bacchus swears it.
But those eyes, those transfixing eyes. Look at
them as they pass thee back to Caesar ; they
twinkle with mirth truly, but they are as
manly as thine own. See how proudly they
fall on Caesar as the eyes of a foolish page
who thinks himself great and who apes
nobility.

Thou art right, Severus. Bacchus swears
it.

Drink, great Governor of all Britain ; drink
and confirm thy faith in thine own craftiness !
Bacchus is by thy side !

CHAPTEE lY.

A MARCH Though BRITAIN.

In the hour when the sun rises after the
banquet to the Caesar there is commotion in
the camp. Caesar is, as usual, up with the
sun and on his day's march, has in truth been
up before the sun, and has had his commands
executed so quietly and silently that no soldier
in the ranks leaving for a ten days' journey
could have made less stir.

Severus, after reaching his home from the
banquet, has gone soundly into repose. He
has previously issued orders that so soon as
the sentries see any movement in Hadrian's
pavilion he shall be called. He has also
given his orders as to the attendants who shall
form the escort, and as to the ceremonials which
shall be followed when the master of all the
legions shall take his departure. Every part
of this organisation has been studied with the

VOL. II. E

best skill of the most skilful of Eoman generals.
It is policy for the Governor of all Britain to
show the highest honour to the Governor of
all the world. The office of Emperor is not
hereditary, and the chances of it are many for
Severus. It must be well sustained whoever
holds it.

Severus is sound in this calculation, but he
is unsound in another calculation : the temper
of the man whom he wishes to exalt.

For another edict has gone forth, from
Hadrian, and has first obedience.

Let every person in the train and bodyguard
of Caesar be ready, without any noise
of trumpet or call, to march out of the
camp during the middle watch, assemble at
sunrise outside the northern gate, and there
wait for command to proceed into northern
Britain.'

The order is obeyed to the letter, and with
the first rays of the sun Caesar himself, accompanied
only by Tinnius Eufus, Antinous and
Tryphon, their horses preceding them, leave
their quarters to join their companions at the
place directed

dispatch is left for Severus, thanking

that skilful commander for all that he has
done, commending the discipline of the camp,
and congratulating the Governor of all Britain
on his new dignity and extended rule. ' To
Sever us Caesar wishes health and happiness,
and farewell.'

The Imperial party reach the northern
gate in good time and in quietude. They pass
the portal ; they find the body-guard all ready
to receive the Emperor, and are departing in
perfect order, when a rush and a loud scream
break the silence and the ceremony.

It is Boadicea, the native wife of Tinnius,
accompanied by her relative Segonax the
potter, who raises this alarm.

The virago has broken loose from her
keeper and from her own word. Tinnius
about to escape is once more the prisoner
of Boadicea.

Tinnius, foreseeing the storm that would
attend his departure, had been, for him, unusually
clever. He had made greater friends
than ever with Segonax the potter ; he had
given that native prince a little fortune of
Eoman coins ; he had got Segonax to join
in the revelation he had made to Boadicea

respecting his attachment to the staff of C^sar,
and he had actually persuaded her, with many
tears on her part, to remain with Segonax
until his own return.

On this understanding they had a few
hours before embraced and kissed their farewells,
and now she has returned with the true
Boadicea fury upon her in full tide, during
which she cares for no man whatsoever.

Segonax does nothing but apologise.
Boadicea does nothing but storm and weep.
Segonax shows by his clothing what he has
gone through, for Boadicea has thrown him
into a ditch and torn his clothes, so that he
has been obliged to call in the aid of three
followers in order to be ready to take her back
by force if needs be.

But Boadicea is in no humour to treat
with Segonax, neither cares she one straw
for Caesar himself, even if she recognises him
amongst the rest of the soldiers, which is not
likely.

She looks only for the unhappy Tinnius,
into whose arms, to the immense amusement
of Hadrian, she throws herself with true feminine
vigour and devotion.

To say that she weeps and laments were
weak terms indeed. She pours forth torrents
of tears and a perfect thunder of words, with
lightnings from her red eyes which are alone
killing. Segonax tries to drag her away ; as
well try to tear a limpet from a rock : the
more he pulls the more she hugs her Roman
spouse.

At last, partly by the efforts of Secondhand
partly by the efforts of Tinnius himself, but
mostly by a change of temper in the chief actor
in the scene, Boadicea gives way, yet only to
create a new movement, which is infinitely
more ridiculous.

Seizing the miserable Eufus by his beard
with her right hand and Segonax by his neck
with her left, she makes a flank movement
towards the home of the potter, pushing him
and pulling her husband with a rapidity and
force that is irresistible.

That she would soon get them both away
is more than probable but for the intrepidity
of the page Antinous, who, rushing up behind
Tinnius, with one stroke of a short sword
shaves off the red beard so dexterously that the
prisoner is left free to run in an instant back to

the body-guard of the Emperor and entrench
himself within it, safe for a moment from all
peril.

The rage of the virago doubles. Waving
the mass of beard, which she still firmly
clutches with one hand, she shakes and
grasps the unfortunate Segonax with the
other so vigorously, that he would surely have
been strangled had not a smart blow across
the muscles of her arm from the hand of
Antinous paralysed her grip and allowed the
potter to fall full length upon the earth, black
in the face and half unconscious from the
strangulation, but saved in the very nick of
time, and protected now by his faithful
followers from further molestation. Holding
the beard on high like some bloody flag or
spoil, Boadicea, shrieking and striking the
air, rushes at the whole of the Eoman corps,
sparing none who dare to speak to her. The
Emperor comes in for it worse than any, for
thinking him to be no more than a private
soldier she rages at his big head and contemptible
figure, strikes at him with the beard
of Tinnius, and in bad Latin, that she may
not be misunderstood, threatens to tear out his

eyes. She is quieted once more by Antinous,
and after a word with Caesar and Tryphon,
obtained during a moment of respite from
the furious tongue, a centurion gives out the
order to half a dozen soldiers : —

Gag the woman's mouth, bind her firmly
on the back of a quiet mule, and let her follow
with the baggage in the rear under close
guard, by request of her husband, and the
permission of C^sar.'

It is all done in a few minutes without
further noise. The Boadicea storm is over,
the soldiers are skilful and strong, the mule is
ready, and the virago is as dumb and obedient
as the animal which carries her. Her arms
are bound down to her sides, with just sufficient
freedom to her hands to enable her to
hold the reins : the beard of Tinnius is tied to
the mane of the mule as a kind of trophy, and
on she marches with the troop, which is in
truth the very victory she desires.

For her heart is torn with two passions,
both of which could now have scope : a watchful
jealousy of Tinnius, an admiration beyond
all measure of Antinous.

Let Tinnius show any favour to any

Eoman beauty, and Antinous shall match that
beauty, or Boadicea is not Boadicea.

The Emperor rides out a few hundred
yards to see that Segonax has recovered, and
to say a few more words of temporary farewell
to that Prince of Britons in the art of clay ;
and, having finished this act of condescension
and good policy, follows in the wake of the
cavalcade with Antinous and Tryphon as his
companions, one on each side of him and both
according to his own heart.

They march all day in this order, resting
at night in a camp hastily pitched, but without
one moment's hitch in the arrangements.
The human machinery is as perfect as the
order of the universe.

In this mode they advance rapidly to
the north. Sometimes they call at a fixed
encampment, a castrum, and remain for one
or two days, but with few exceptions they
make their own encampment and rest only
one night.

They reach the great wall, they traverse
its entire length, Hadrian giving forth his
instructions, commending some parts of the
work, and condemning other parts without

reserve. Not a soul dares correct or suggest,
and, good or bad, the work goes on according
to his will.

The inspection completed, they return
southwards, bearing to the east in order to
reach Dola, the gate of the sea on a little
island to the south-east side of the mainland,
whence they may embark for Paul, on their
way to Eome. This march through Britain is
most pleasant, and Hadrian in the first stages
o^ it is as near to happiness as Hadrian possibly
could be, and that is saying much for
Hadrian.

For, in fact, this one of the greatest
Caesar is never favoured with felicity. A
man of boundless energy without a trace of
hope, he is worn out by what men call success
more rapidly than hopeful men are worn
out by failure.

He lives on his energy. So long as his
mind is occupied with some new project, or
study, or conversation, or difficulty, lie is, to
the world's eye, well and interested. So soon
as the absorbing occupation is over he is,
to his own heart, the most miserable man of
all the hosts under his sway. A poor slave.

lying on his straw dreading the morrow,
may, by a gleam of hope, be a happy man
compared with him for whose pleasure all
slaves are prepared to minister.

Intrinsically, Hadrian is both good and
great. He wears the purple as one born for
it ; he prizes it according to its worth, but
he cares for it not the slightest. It gives
him the means of employing himself as he
likes, but it brings him no satisfaction. As
to human pleasures, in their grosser sense, he
knows nothing of them ; what is called love
he has never felt in its keen and absorbing
passion of desire. Wine he looks upon as
poison, and to him it is poison that would
madden him unto death.

Field sports and games are too contemptible
for his mind ; state craft does not afford
variety enough for his eager faculties.

When he is moving he is most free of
care, and knowing of this one remedy from
sheer despair he is always a-foot ; for years
upon years he wanders through his empire,
seeking rest and finding none.

One thing is greatly in his favour ; he
sleeps perfectly. The moment his simple

evening meal is over and the brief interval of
after-conversation has passed, he retires to
his couch to sink into sleep like an infant.
It is not the night, it is the morning he
fears.

He wakes unrefreshed : he wakes as if he
must sleep again, yet if he indulges in that
desire his whole succeeding day is wearisome
and sad ; he, therefore, rises with the sun, filled
with sinking of the heart, hopelessness, and
despair. Panic clutches him, some great impending
evil, worse than the worst that could
happen, is at hand, and is rendered still
severer by the circumstance that the reality
of it does not appear.

What shall he do? What shall he do .^
What shall he do ?

The answer comes. Work ! Work ! Work !

He obeys, and soon, under his many manifold
duties, all pursued with vigour, he regains
serenity.

Tryphon, the physician of the school of the
Asclepiades, has the confidence of Hadrian,
simply because he has the divine art of seeing
in what direction to treat his patient, so as
to do as little as ever he can and yet always

be doing something. If the Emperor thought
there was anyone near him who didn't do
something, woe be to that man.

Tryphon knows this, and easily fitting in
his own life and ways to the life and ways
of his master,' is indispensable. He understands
thoroughly the subtle disease from
which his master suffers. Hippocrates has told
him all about it in an immortal essay on
hypochondriasis.' He has learned the hour
of each periodic attack, and is always at hand
to meet it. He is there, not to listen to the
tale of despair, but to offer some antidote in
the way of information relating to the events
of the coming day, where they are going and
what they will see.

This is the cure of Tryphon. He knows
it is a cure that must, in much shorter period
than the natural period of the life of so strong
a man as the Caesar, bring even Caesar to final
repose ; but it is, on the whole, the best cure,
and prevents self-destruction.

In the new Antinous, the physician has
found an ally of the best quality. Tryphon
has no jealousies, and in this case he has all
admiration. Antinous is of his own nation ; has

the same secret hopes as he in regard to that
nation's deliverance from Rome ; has the same
reverence, with a more perfect knowledge of
the Holy Scriptures of their race ; has gifts
which belong to no other race, and only to
the most favoured of it ; has youth, daring,
skill, resource, beauty, beyond aught that is
usually seen, and such command of presence
as to be able to summon up into life any
remaining latent power which any feeble son
of earth can bring forth from what seems to
be the abyss of death.

In all persons there is laid by a reserve of
energy, a charge of vital tenacity which being
evoked appears as a wonder, and to the unlearned
as a miracle. In many this reserve
power is altogether unknown until it is called
forth by a will stronger than their own.
Antinous has that stronger will, and when it
is obeyed Antinous for the time excels so
marvellously, that the deed is a miracle. The
deed inspires belief, and by the very act of
belief the doer is thought to be inspired.

In a sense this is true ; Antinous holds
more of the vital will than the majority of
man or woman kind, a super-endowment

amounting for all common observers to
inspiration.

Hadrian, with the rest, has come under
this spell, and in the many wonderful feats
which his new companion performs with so
much grace and power, forgets the sex, and
treats Antinous as, in truth, a knight of
Eome.

Henceforth, for a time, we will share with
him in this happy delusion. Antinous shall
be a knight of Eome.

Antinous rides with a mastery over every
charger which continues to call forth admiration
in all parts of the country they traverse.
Sometimes, while the camp rests for meals,
Antinous scours the country with perfect unconcern,
to gather the news. Antinous has
caught up with astounding facility the native
tongues and dialects, converses with everybody,
and confirms everybody in what
they have heard of the mighty Emperor's
marvellous powers. The cure of Segonax
has spread abroad, and has so magnified by
spreading that the people come to the feet
of the Emperor bringing their sick that he
may touch them, that they by the royal

touch may be healed, and he, for a season, be
happy.

To these arts Antinous adds faith, and
Tryphon adds skill. Tryphon, at the bidding
of the Emperor, extracts the head of a dart
from the skull of a man who has been unconscious
for many weeks. The dart removed,
the unconscious man rises and begins to talk,
but not in the language which his present
friends understand.

The Emperor inquires does any one know
where the man was born ?

They answer, in Siluria. Then Antinous,
who can speak to a Silurian, is fetched, and
converses with the man freely. The man has
regained his native, forgotten his acquired
tongue. A native Silurian is found, who confirms
the fact.

Miracle of miracles ! the miracle of the
camp of Eboracum in Northern Britain.

They march from Eboracum at quicker
pace that they may not be impeded by too
many intruders on their time, so says the wily
Tryphon, who wishes to let success remain
unsullied by any new experiment ; and after
a sharp series of marches southwards and

eastwards they enter the splendid camp of
Londinum, on the bank of the great river
Thamesisis that leads to the eastern sea.

In the course of this long and pleasant
journey the knight Antinous has done many
knightly wonders ; but the choicest of these
remains to be told. Antinous has vanquished
completely Boadicea. That gallant virago,
no longer viragoish, follows the knight with
a simplicity that amounts to adoration. The
beard of Tinnius has grown again, more
resplendently than ever, but it has lost all
its attractions.

The virago has no eyes, no heart, no soul
except for Antinous.

As they enter Londinum there waits for
them the Numidiann Eli. It is sufficient for
Boadicea to hate Eli because he singles out
the noble knight of Eome for recognition as
the cavalcade passes the gates of the camp.
But when she sees that admirer enter the tent
of the knight and receive commands, her
jealousy knows no bounds. If the admirer were
not so strong she would kill him. Yet a word
from Antinous and all is right again ; Eli is
merely an attendant and a man.

The companions of Tinnius observe the
change in his Boadicea, and rate him accordingly.
Tinnius tugging his new beard, regales
them with new wines, and stops all their raillery
with new song and good humour. Withall
their banter they can neither make him
jealous nor unhappy. On the contrary he,
like the virago, worships Antinous.

Happy Antinous ! Happy knight of
Eome !

VOL. TT.

^ Chapter V.

THE NOVIOMAGIAXS.

Towards the close of their journey from Ebon
to Londinum Hadrian is seized anew
with one of the attacks of depression of mind
which form so painful a part of his life. The
road between the two great camps is one of
the most level and perfect military highways
in the whole of the empire, and in spite of his
dejection he continues to admire it. But it is
monotonous, and notwithstanding the speed
with which they pass along it, it becomes, at
last, very long and wearisome.

By the time he reaches Londinum the
malady of depression has so much increased
that it is a critical venture even to approach
this master of the legions. He is ready to
dispute on everything with everybody, yet he
will bear no opposition. Those who oppose

him are open enemies ; while those who too
easily give him his humour are secret conspirators.


Antinous chants to him some of her exquisite
native poems and parodies translated
into purest Latin verse. He listens with a
sort of vacant wonder and pleasure, but it
does him no good in the end.

The wise Tryphon resorts at first to his
medicinal stores ; he will administer hellebore.
But when the suggestion is made to his
patient, the patient does not receive it with
confidence. Tryphon sees from his manner
that there lurks on the mind of the depressed
man an idea, common to his mental disorder,
that all about him are anxious to make away
with him, and that any drug which produces
decided symptoms would be suspected as a
secret or concealed poison.

Medicine consequently is given up for the
moment, and the next thing the wise physician
thinks of is some starting diversion. A hunt,
a race, a fight in the arena, a grand sail down
the noble river into the eastern sea. In vain !
in vain ! Not one of these proposals receives
the slightest regard.

c c

w 2

If I could intensely divert him, and lift
him out of himself for but one day,' Tryphon
declares, ' he would possibly be cured. If I
cannot he will soon crave to die.'

And all events in the world that Tryphon
and Antinou-s most dread is the death of
Hadrian. Let Hadrian die now and Julius
Severus is Emperor without a doubt, and a
great cause of theirs, ripening quickly into
effective action, is lost for ever.

Israel must continue in chains if Hadrian
dies.

In this dilemma the merry Tinnius Eufus,
of all men least likely to give a prescription
as these wiser heads think, comes in with one
that is as gold to tin compared with all that
has been suggested previously.

Why not coax him to go to Noviomagus,
the city and state of the new magicians ? '

This is the prescription of Eufus the Eed-
beard.

While on the march Eufus has already
told them some items about this singular
place, and now lie is asked more about it he
tells them more.

Noviomagus is not farther than sixty stadia,

about eight British miles, a mere two hours'
march, to the south-west of the camp at
Londinum. It is mainly a Eoman colony ; its
people, perfectly harmless, are great scholars
and searchers into ancient mysteries and
antiquities ; but they have an extraordinary
fashion, they do everything by contraries, and
the results are rapturous.

The suggestion is splendid, but how is it
to be carried out ! Easily carried out. The
citizen of Noviomagus who presides over the
little community, as the Lord High President
of the State, is a friend of Eufus, and has
invited him to a banquet of the State which
is the greatest peculiarity of all.

Why should not Hadrian, as a simple
soldier companion in the camp of the Caesar,
go with him to the banquet ?

The subtle Tryphon introduces the proposal
to Caesar with so much art that the plot
is seized with actual avidity. He does not
press Caesar to go ; he merely tells him about
the place, and gradually intimates that Eufus
in his jovial kind of way has said how droll
it would be if the Emperor were to accompany
him to the banquet, an event as unlikely as

that a star should fall or a general earthquake
break up all the earth.

The true word spoken in jest is, in this
instance, proved to the letter ; the day for
the Noviomagian banquet arrives, and Rufus
with a single companion, a common Eoman
soldier, is away on foot towards Noviomagus,
the State of the new magicians.

The two cross the great river Thamesisis
in a galley, and making through a wooded
plain begin to ascend a height from which
the camp at Londinum is seen by them
lying to the north-east in all its beauty.

The effect of the change on the mind
of Hadrian is by this time well marked.
The brisk exercise, the rattling tongue of
Eufus, the newness of the scenery, the expectation
of what is soon to come, have the
best influence over the Emperor. It is as if a
dense cloud were lifted from him ; he begins
again to like companionship, and to find a
happier speech.

He becomes enthusiastic about the camp
at Londinum. 'What a site it is,' he exclaims,
for a mighty city, with that river equal to
four Fibers at least flowing towards the ocean

in such gallant style. One day this may become
the emporium of the world.'

Rufus listens incredulously, but respectfully.
He is glad to see the marked chancre
in his master, and rattles away more merrily
than ever. They make a little detour in
order to avoid a camp to the east of them,
and turning briskly round and marching
nearly due west they come in sight of the
temple or minor Parthenon dedicated to
Minerva, which marks the centre of the
Noviomagian territory, in the very heart of
the Regni of Britain.

For some of the singularities of the
Noviomagian citizens Hadrian has already
been prepared. He has been advised that if
he were forbidden the banquet ever so sternly
he was still to take his place, because the
more decisively he was forbidden the more
eagerly was he welcomed. He is told that
in Noviomagus every man holds an office except
one who, representing every person not
in office, is designated the Regular Citizen ;
and he is made fully conversant by his merry
comrade with the grade and genius of every
officer. No other story could have delighted

SO much the present childish mind of the
Caesar. It is school-boy days once more.
He marvels what sort of men the Noviomagians
will be to look at when he mixes with them.
Will they really be grown-up men ?

When at last he does meet them in the
ante-room of the Temple, he finds them all
grown-up men and very like other men of the
graver Eoman type ; men well dressed, of
good manners, and, when they choose, of
learned speech.

Although Eufus is known to them all, they
pretend not to recognise him, and order him
and his doubtful friend away, with many curt
and severe observations on their intrusive
impertinence.

Tinnius Eufus and his comrade heed them
not in the least. On the contrary, they make
themselves quite at home, and assume, on
their parts, that they are the masters of the
situation, and that their hosts are impudent
intruders into their domain.

The Noviomagians, charmed with the
sublime impertinence of the soldier friend
and companion of Eufus, ask aside of
Eufus : —

Who is this merry fellow of yours ?
Really who is he ? '

And, amidst roars of laughter, Eufus
answers in the plainest language he can speak.

'Caesar.'

They accept, as the finest joke that ever
has been played off in Noviomagus, this incredible
reality, and at once in mock dignity
address the stranger as if he really were
C^sar. Eufus trembles for a moment as
having gone too far, but observing that the
person most concerned is infinitely amused
by it, and prepared to play out his part
thoroughly, he keeps up the deception.

The banquet is served in the new fashion,
with the guests sitting at the table, and
Caesar is put in the place of honour by the
side of, and on the right hand of the Lord High
President, the place designed for Eufus until
this greater man was declared by Eufus himself.


At the close of the banquet the President,
as a first duty, rises in his place, lights a taper
which gives forth a pleasant odour and throws
off rings of smoke as he waves it, and with all
the company rising to their feet proclaims : —

Salute August! ! '

To the health of Caesar ! '

It is the common mode of reverence and
recognition of the omnipresent Emperor from
the time of Augustus Caesar.

About this act of devotion there is no joke
in Noviomagus ; it is one of two serious parts
of the Noviomagian performances. Hadrian is
so much touched by the sincerity of this act
that he conceals his real self with difficulty.
For the first time since his elevation he has
witnessed, behind his own back as it were,
how he is reverenced.

He does not rise with the others to his feet.
Splendid ! ' Caesar must not rise to Caesar.'
Of course not. He might have been a
Noviomagian from his cradle, he plays his
part so well.

Step by step he begins to learn, in detail,
the names of all the great Noviomagian fraternity
and their qualifications.

Sedes, the general in command of the forces
of the State, is represented as having been
selected to that office because of his surpassing
peacefulness of disposition. He knows nothing
of the soldier's art, and is so timid that he ran

away the first and only time in his life when
his courage was tested. The story is well told,
but Hadrian sees through it and admires the
spare generalissimo of the mimic state so much
that if the wife and children of that hero were
diviners they might forecast an anxious farewell
in store for them.

Benignus, who combines in himself the
two offices of Laureate and Treasurer, is, as
his name implies, of benign and yet of merry
countenance. Eufus approves him much, and
all the company hold him in great reverence.
On important occasions he writes a poem, and
he is an entertainer of poets of other cities and
countries. But his grand office in Noviomagus
is that of collector of taxes and keeper of the
State treasury. Of these taxes he refuses to
give any record whatsoever. His word, he
says, must be his bond.

By the laws of the State the Treasurer maybe
able to write, but he must not be able tread.

Crocus, the learned Eecorder or Secretary
of the State, is a very different personage. He
is small, quick, and at the beginning serious.
As time advances he becomes intensely witty,
and his report of the last meeting is listened

to by all with the utmost amusement. Crocus
narrates the doings of the State well, but the
best art he possesses is that of imitation of the
style and manner of great orators, statesmen,
poets, and princes.

By a fundamental law, it is ordained that
the Eecorder may be able to read, but he must
not be able to write.

These particular laws, that the Treasurer
must not be one who is able to read and the
Eecorder not one who is able to write, are of
immense value. They prevent the Treasurer
from reading up any extravagant ideas on the
subject of political economy, and they prevent
the Recorder from committing to paper
or parchment any secrets or mysteries of the
State, that ought to be concealed.

Balas, the Public Orator, has been originally
elected to his post because of his utter
inability to put two consecutive sentences together.
Such, however, is the perversity of
human nature that this Noviomagian, called
Balas because he was at first only able to
bleat out a little speech, has become, by the
many calls made upon him to expound
Noviomagian oracles, such a fine orator that

there is now a standing notice for his dismissal
from his post, which notice being
marked ' urgent ' is never brought forward.

Diverts the Architect of Noviomagus
is described as the gravest man of all the
assembly. It is his peculiarity that in the
squares and gardens and parks of Noviomagua
he keeps flocks of sheep, not for their flesh,
nor for their wool, but as tests of salubrity.
If the white fleeces of these animals become
darkened by dirt and dust, he marks the spot
where this change occurs as a spot fed by
an air too impure to breathe. So the black
sheep of the architect become proverbs, and
the man who is about to take a house requires
proof, before he concludes his bargain, that a
spotless sheep has occupied the place for a
lunar month without showing the slightest
taint on its wool. The shearing of the sheep
completes the bargain, and as each fleece
sheared for this purpose is sealed up and
placed in the record office as legal evidence
of the transaction, a rather considerable institution
has been developed amongst the public
buildings.

The Keeper of the Public Records, including

the wool-gathering records, is the learned
Bullies. The disturbance which his perpetual
boiling over keeps up is most troublesome
to the master of the feast, whose worst
and wildest rulings meet with most favour,
especially from the Censor Morum, one
Rectus, a man of excruciating puns, never
at rest, and whom the genial Hiatus, the
Prefect or Sheriff of the State, cannot control,
no, not even by better puns of his own.

Laurentius the high-priest of the famous
temple, Phcenicius the traveller, Lyricus the
minstrel, Peregrine the pilgrim, and last but
nut least Patriarchs the venerable Father of
the State, nearly as aged as Fidelis the centurion
; these, surrounding and supporting the
Summum Praises, the Lord High President of
the State, form with the other citizens and
guests a group as lively as it is inconsistent.

On the mind of Hadrian the many absurd
stories, told without the least reserve, produce
a mirthful rallying which adds to the curative
effect his journey has produced.

He begins to reason on the inconsistencies
until the inconsistencies become consistent.

'What,' says he to himself — ' what a happy

sovereign of a future day that one will be
who shall have a council or senate of the true
Noviomagian type ; a secretary who cannot
write ; a treasurer who cannot read ; a public
orator who cannot speak ; a commander-inclines
who cannot set out troops ; or a general
of the sea who has never boarded a ship ! '

In the course of fifteen or twenty centuries
of civilisation even so strange an event as
this may turn up in some centre of empire.
If Londinum, so favourably placed on the
great river, should expand into a mighty seat
of government, why should not Londinum, so
near to Noviomagus, attain to this perfection
as it attains to its full development ?

The reflection only whets his thirst for
more Xoviomagian wisdom and practice, with
which they ply him to any extent.

They do it practically. They proceed to
take a vote on the question that Eufus, under
the new Noviomagian name of ' Tristes ' (the
sad), shall be admitted to citizenship. The vote
unanimously says no therefore Eufus is unanimously
elected. This, the invariable rule of
voting, is found to have many advantages, one
of which was seen but a few weeks before,

after a great debate on the question whether
the state should go to war with a native
chief called Getorix.

There was every reason why this marauder
should be opposed, but the worst arguments,
in opposition, carried the day, and the noes
had it. Getorix thereupon marched unopposed
on Noviomagus, and in crossing a river
was lost with all his men.

In their public games the racer who, after
doing his very best gets in last, is the winner,
while he who, having tried his best, comes in
first is the loser.

This principle holds good also in the
schools, in the wresting feats, in every competition
; and, although at first sight it is
opposed to common ideas, it is greatly in
advance of all other methods, because no one
is injured by it and the conceited are kept in
their place.

In speaking of another person in Novio-
magus, the rule is to praise the person named
by relating the very opposite of what the world
generally would say of his virtues, his vices, or
his negative qualities. It is astonishing how
well this answers. If a man is handsome he

is rated ugly, which subdues his conceit. If
he is hideous he is designated handsome,
which keeps him in good temper, a point of
enormous importance with all people whom
nature has made objectionable. A confirmed
rogue is treated as a singularly honest man,
under which device he is kept in honesty
more rigorously than by the discipline of fifty
strokes from the viris.

If a man be by nature gifted with transparent
falsehood, he is made proverbial for
his truthfulness. All men swear by his word.
Mendax ' was for many years thus honoured
throughout the State. All men swore by
Mendax, and his word was accepted as law. At
first Mendax relished the attention, but when
he found what it led to and the scrapes it got
him into, he changed altogether and became
such a confirmed pervert to the truth as to bea
nuisance from the insane exactitude with
which he related the most trivial anecdote, or
performed the most trivial service. At last,
having been put to determine whether the
colour of the sky, which all called blue,
was not green, he stuck to blue so pertinaciously
that he ceased to be quoted as an

VOL. II. G

authority on anything and had to leave the
place.

In like manner Pavo Maxims, who came
direct from Eome and who was one of the
most conceited asses that ever Eome sent forth,
was greeted in Noviomagus with the profound
reverence due to humility and power.

All Noviomagians encouraged Pavo to the
utmost. They bade him think more of himself
and less of them ; they explained that he could
not help being ill-favoured and feeble, because
nature in her great designs ordains that such
should be, and that the fault, of which he is
innocent, is the natural retribution of the errors
of his ancestors. In the brief space of two
moons the effect of this wise and admirable
encouragement was so telling on Pavo Maxims
that, becoming a modest man, he sank into
an obscurity which he singularly adorned,
and his wife, enamoured of Noviomagus, presented
him with offspring remarkable alike
for their modesty and learning. In short,
by this lucky stroke of statesmanship Novio-
magus lost one foolish and gained five wise
sons.

The hours pass happily away, and the

Lord High President of the State and the
C^sar of Tinnius Eufus move on merrily-together.
The Lord High is as frugal as his
guest, and like his guest touches no wine ; but
raising a flagon filled with the purest of drinks,
the wine distilled by the sun and condensed
from the mountains by the Master of Life, he
proposes the other toasts or sentiments common
to the festival. He drinks to Noviomagus. He
informs his hearers that he is at peace with all
nations, and that he and the C^sar exchange
the most friendly relationships, a statement
which the chief guest and his companion,
Tinnius Eufus, enthusiastically cheer, with a
sly look at each other which for the moment
so bewilders the Lord High, that he calls the
gods and the guests to witness the proof of
his assertion, from the fact of the presence of
the great potentate bv his side.

Hilariously, the citizens pledge ' their noble
selves ; ' and then their leader calls upon them
to do the same to those members who for some
valid reason are not able to be present, descanting
fully on the virtues of each absentee iu
true Noviomagian humour.

He sits down to call on Lyricus to sing a

song which he, the Lord High, has composed
to go with this toast : whereupon Lyricus tunes
his lyre, and playing on it the accompaniment,
cheerfully obeys, in a melody as simple as the
words of the song : —

To Absent Friends.

We'll pledge our absent friends, dear friends,

Our friendship true to prove ;
And show to all that distance lends

No distance to our love.

When from the sun the earth away

Turns her retreating face,
Still burns the sun with brightest ray

And still maintains his place.

And when from regions of the night

The wearied earth doth stray.
Is there all beaming with his light

'Jo welcome her to-day.

Thus friendship true nor sinks nor sets,

But always loves and lives.
The absent ones she ne'er forgets,

Forgotten she forgives.

Then pledge our absent friends, dear friends,

Our friendship true to prove ;
And show to all that distance lends

No distance to our love.

As the applause which follows the refrain

of the song ceases, the chief guest bids
Tinnius Eufus get him the words for C^sar.

Certainly. Caesar shall have the words.

The Public Orator rises by command to
recall the memory of the illustrious dead.
Stephens, their late Eecorder, who has been
received into the number of the gods, is the
chief departed memory. Him Noviomagus
ever mourns, and is now erecting a monument
to his fame ; but others also are named,
with cheerful pathos and affectionate remembrance.


For a time the scene changes. The guests
are told that for an interval mirth will give
way to serious discourse. The Lord High
President has the full power to appoint one of
his officers, or one of the guests, to relate some
veritable experience or fact that shall at once
prove pleasant and instructive. This time he
commissions Phoenicians, who has long been
absent on his travels, to tell of his adventures.


Phoenicians, of true Phoenician birth and
accomplishments, relates thereupon his latest
travel, to which the one particular guest listens
with rapt attention.

Phcenicius has sailed to an island in the
far northern sea, in which island there is perpetual
night and perpetual day for months at
a time ; in which the sparse population spend
almost a winter of sleep ; in which the cold
is so severe that at periods the island is a ' rock
of ice ' ; but in which, nevertheless, there are
springs of boiling water shooting up from the
ground many feet high.

*If this is not Noviomagian,' observes
Tinnius Eufus, as Phcenicius concludes, ' it is
so near to it I see not the difference.'

And he laughs till his fat cheeks tremble
like two jellies.

The effect on his companion is of a serious
kind. He asks for more information. In
what direction is this island? How distant
is it ? Is the sailing to it easy ? Are the inhabitants
fierce or gentle ? Who is king or
chief of it ? Have the Eomans ever been there ?
Has any Eoman or Greek author described
it ? Did Phcenicius understand the language
of the people ? Have the hot springs any
medicinal value ?

These and fifty more questions are asked
of Phcenicius with eager inquiry, and answered

by him with his natural courtesy and keen
intelligence.

Why should a common soldier of the
army, one who is not even a centurion, want
to know so many things about the distant
northern island ?

The soldier is set down as a very intelligent
soldier.

'Are all the soldiers who serve in the
body-guard of Caesar as interested in these
subjects of travel as yourself?' inquires the
Lord High of his guest.

Not all, but some are ? '

They reflect the mind of their Imperial
master,' continues the innocent speaker.

The guest reddens, and Eufus pales. The
conversation is getting uncomfortably warm.

Ask him to sing,' suggests Eufus as a
diversion ; ' he has a good voice, and is fond
of the art.'

The Lord High President is charmed with
the idea, and in a moment or two is able to
tell the citizens that amongst the other accomplishments
of the Caesar of Eufus there is
a voice that can sing.

Will their guest give them a taste of his

melody ? The Caesar of Eiifus, the common
soldier of Eome, will be delighted to obey the
Lord High President and his loyal people. It
is the duty of every soldier to obey his sovereign.
Can they favour him with a lute ?

A lute is brought. It is tuned by the
performer, who loves to show off his musical
skill, with a touch, and ear, and grace which
surprises Noviomagus.

Could a common soldier tune a lute like
that ?

Eufus, seeing the puzzle, solves it by
whispering something which goes quickly
round the table : —

His mother was a famous musician.'

The instrument is attuned, Noviomagus
listens, and Caesar with sweet voice sings, in
words and music all his own, the song
subjoined.

My Heart's Desire.

What is my heart's desire ?

To know ! to know !
Whence comes the living fire
That in my breast doth glow

And whither it must go.

What is my heart's desire l
To sit on high,

And like a god aspire
To conquer destiny,
As one who cannot die.

What is my heart's desire ?

To lay up gold,
Such riches to acquire
And such possessions hold

As cannot all be told.

What is my heart's desire 1

A woman's love,
Sweet as a well-tuned lyre,
True as the star above

Round which all others move.

What is my heart's desire.

Above all these 1
A friend who will not tire
Of friendship's subtleties,

Though all my faults he sees.

As the last touch of the lute dies away
Noviomagus rises, perfectly entranced with
the voice, the style, and the matter of the
singer, who is soon again absorbed in the
gossip and various amusements which prevail.

The hours pass, for once at least, merrily
with Hadrian.

Crocus the Eecorder and mimic of mimics
has skilfully got up the Caesarss, their manner
of life and various styles of speech.

He is called upon to ' play the fool,' and
he does it in this representation.

He begins with Julius Caesar haranguing
his troops ; he passes to Augustus finishing
the comedy of his life ; Tiberius defending
debauchery ; Caligula feeding horses on golden
oats ; Claudius making love to Agrippina ;
Nero reciting the fall of Troy ; Galba hiding
his money-bags ; 0th o praying to be allowed
to die ; Vitellius the glutton ordering
his dinner ; Vespasian making the young
nobles march barefoot ; Titus bargaining with
Josephus the Jew ; Domitian killing flies with a
pin ; Nerva selHng his old clothes and imperial
robes for the good of the State ; Trajan
having his head shaved by a supposed conspirator
; and lastly, Hadrian disputing with
Favoring in defence of luxury over a bunch
of sorrel, a crust of dry bread, and a cruet of
vinegar.

From humour to sadness, from genial satire
to genial praise, from wisdom to the extremest
folly, the merry Recorder of Noviomagus
leads his friends along. Happy for him, as
Eufus keenly feels, his criticism on the last
Caesar is to the very shade what the last Caesar

could hear of himself, not only without offence
but sitting unchanged and looking up at the
orator with a face of as true levity, kept under
control, as the orator himself maintains.

So much for Caesar,' cries out the Recorder
as he resumes his place, to the applause
of all around.

The mirth still continues, jokes abound ;
tales of all kinds and countries and persons are
exchanged, and the last of the formalities is
about to be carried out.

The Lord High President of Noviomagus
has risen in his place to pledge the health of
the Caesar of Eufus, of Tinnius Eufus himself,
and the other renowned Visitors, when a scene
altogether unprecedented takes place.

An intrusion into the banqueting hall of
Noviomagus !

Impossible !

Nay, my Lord High President,' says the
pale and breathless messenger who bears the
news, ' it is true ; there are those outside who
will enter and whose business admits of no
hindrance. They threatened to run me
through with their swords if I came not with
this paper to Caesar.'

Taking the whole affair as a Noviomagian
joke, the Lord High President amidst a roar of
laughter receives into his own hands the massive
dispatch and transfers it with profound
mock solemnity to the mysterious guest, by
whose side the lute still lies.

The dispatch bears an inscription ' From
Rome,' and the seal or signet appended to it
is the seal of the Senate of that mother of
empires.

The joke is superb, even in Noviomagus.

It must be the work of Hortensius the
regular citizen of Noviomagus who, conspicuous
by his absence since the first part of the
banquet, has been concocting this huge surprise
as a sly compliment to the companion
of Eufus.

Caesar himself receives the document in
the same jovial spirit, but as his eye glances
over it his countenance changes.

Like a flash, the face of the merry soldier
is transformed into the dignity of the stern and
mighty Imperator.

Who brings this missive ? ' he exclaims
in a voice of authority and thunder.

Noviomagus is bewildered. The red face

of Eufus becomes pallid ; the Lord High President
hesitates, but the rest of the company,
accepting the speech and action as magnificent
comedy, cheer and laugh the more.

Taking no heed of their noise, the receiver
of the dispatch breaks the seal and reads the
epistle.

We who are allowed to read it with him
may tell the message.

It is a message from the Senate to Caesar
the absolute. It prays, it all but insists, for
his instant return to Eome. An insurrection
of the Jews in Cyprus has led to a threatened
universal rising in Palestine, which nothing
less than the immediate presence of the Emperor
can prevent.

The Emperor reads, reflects a moment, and
with peaceful manner amounting even to tenderness
speaks : —

Citizens of Noviomagus, and henceforth all
of you knights of Eome, know that it has been
your fate to make Caesar happy. But Caesar
has duties that call him home, and Tinnius
Eufus, from this night Governor of Palestine,
is required also at his post. Nay, move not,
I pray you, for one moment from your mirth,

but heartily let Caesar thank you as he says
farewell.'

The Noviomagians rise still half incredulous,
as Caesar, attended by Eufus, is about to
retire from the hall in the wake of the messenger.


Is it credible ; have they been entertaining
Cffisar after all ?

The bent knee of the President, as he kisses
the hand extended with imperial dignity towards
his lips, the noise of horsemen without
the walls, and the royal submission of the
new Governor of Palestine make, at last, the
incredible the credible.

They all bend, and Caesar departs, yet not
without one last look round as he reaches the
portico leading into the outer court ; one more
graceful recognition ; and, one more vale —
farewell ; followed by a shout from Novio-
magus that is deafening : —

Ave CcBsar I '

They would have rushed out in a crowd,
but the returning messenger tells them it were
in vain. An escort of soldiers, he relates, was
at the door. Two dismounted were holding

the horses for the two who have left the table,
and these latter mounting the steeds have in
one moment galloped, in the midst of the
escort, along the way to Londinum.

The two remaining soldiers, centurions

o

both of them, are left by Caesar to the care of
Noviomagus until the morning.

They are received with a warmth and
welcome which is as new to their life as it is
pleasant to their tastes. They take the places
lately occupied by Caesar and Eufus. They are
treated to food, and fruit, and wine. They
turn out, when all restraint is off them, to be
true soldiers, as mirthful as they are resolute.
They tell their stories about the long marches
they have had with Hadrian for two years
past. They describe the scene of the Jew and
the Numidiann bear ; the festival in honour of
Fidelis and the death and cremation of that
hero ; the character of Julius Severus ; the
influence of Antinous and all else they have
seen, with a simple frankness that wins for
them the greatest admiration.

The Public Orator descants on them so
eloquently that at last he is, by necessity,
deposed from his office ; the Laureate tries

an extempore poem re Caesar ; the Eecorder
reads from a blank parchment a minute
chronicling events, which the Keeper of the
Public Records undertakes faithfully to preserve
; the Censor Morum perpetrates a pun
on the word centurion, which is too bad to be
worth noticing ; and the Architect finishes by
constructing for the guests ' a bed of thorns '
on which they sleep as they have never slept
before in all their memory.

CHAPTER YI.

LOVE AND LEVIATHAN.

It is time that we should return to our
travellers, whom we left to their repose in the
natural palace which they had discovered on
their way to the western sea of Britain.

We rejoin them there when their sojourn
is concluded, refreshed and recruited with
food, and ready for their journey.

By this time they so well understand each
other that they are as one family. Towards
Simeon the fair Erine Leoline — to repeat her
beautiful name — feels no restraint. It is to
her as if she had known him all her life. She
has a pre-existent sentiment that long ago
she knew him, and that by some strange
and affectionate tie she was so attached to
him that they were veritably the same persons
in heart, in mind, in soul.

To a wise and inquiring man this idea

VOL. II. H

would evoke points upon points of controversy.
But Erine Leoline does not pretend to be wise,
is not inquiring on such subtle matters as
mental phenomena, and is as far from being a
man as any one of her sex can be.

Leon, her father, is also affected towards
the youth beyond mere passing favour. What
was at first sympathy has passed into responsibility.
The youth is to Leon like the raised
embodiment of his own child who died, or, ashe
would say, was translated at birth.

This impression had flitted across the mind
of Leon even as they journeyed, and now that
he has read the book of fate which the youth
carries on his bosom there is no hesitation.
Leon has not simply surmised, he has read and
interpreted his duty.

As the shadows of the evening begin to
fall they prepare themselves for their further
journey, and soon depart on their way.

Yet they turn to look back at the beautiful
palace of nature which they have occupied
for one day, and as they look they linger.

For now the palace is in all the glory of
sunset. It is filled with a rich, ruddy sunset
glow. Its central mound, permeated and

cleft through, yields the most wonderful
shadows : its splash is in sweeter tune than
ever ; the birds are returning to their nests,
and in the caves dark shades fill the spaces.

It is hard to turn away, but they must begone.
One more glance, Erine Leohne ; one
more glance, Simeon, the running torch ; one
more look into that palace of nature, and one
look athwart each other's eyes ere your faces
turn into the future.

Into the dark, dark eyes of thine, Simeon,
how deep those blue eyes of thy maiden
companion sink ! Thou hast in thine heart,
strong youth and king, two wells of life from
which thy rich blood springs. Thither, thither
those blue eyes have sent their searching rays,
and left them there.

Under the first impression, so deeply set,
the heart of Simeon well-nigh stands still ;
then it quickens ; it beats in his throat ; it
vibrates to the end of every nervous fibre ; it
fills his breast with fire ; it flushes his eyes
till tears are wanted to give relief.

Thou art charged with fire, Simeon, with
new and living and immortal fire. And thou,
gentle Erine, thou has lost what he has gained.

H 2

Sweet maiden of maidens, how pale thou art !
how thine heart also doth flutter with sweet
tumultuous bliss at loss of the treasure thou
hast given up for ever ! Is it faith that
supports thee, sweet child, so that thy colour
returns ?. Is it fear of having too impulsively
lost what thou canst never recall that makes
thy pale cheek glow with the virgin blush of
beauty ?

It is both : it is faith and fear ; but faith
prevails.

Their hands touch as they turn from the
past into the future. It is the faintest of
touches, yet is it a thrill through all their
natures, body, soul, and spirit ; a thrill of
felicity such as they have never felt before,
and never in the same intensity and richness
shall feel again.

To no mortal born, man or woman, is it
given to taste that ecstatic thrill twice in this
mortal life.

The young lion and the lioness have met,
and a little child could lead them. They are
led by one of childish purity and giant manliness
; so safe a guide as few can hope to
follow.

Their course from this time is westward,
on the upper margin of a forest, with a valley
on their right hand, and the moon and stars as
their light. With the rising of the sun, the
philosopher once more ascends a favouring
height, takes his observations, makes and
exchanges his signals, satisfies himself as to
the route he must pursue, and returning with
his children into the forest, discovers for them
all a shelter, in which they pray, and eat, and
take once more their rest.

Refreshed and ready for travel they start
again, and coming to an ascent which they
climb, see before them in greater width and
in silvery beauty the stream or river which
they had before beheld in the distance asa
mere streak of bright and shining metal.
It seems so near, the young people think
they must surely reach it in one short stage,
but in this idea they are corrected by their
guide, who impresses on them patience and
persevering progress.

In this the last stage to their destination
they pass once more into forest land. They
are now in a deep and wooded valley, where
once the sea had its bed at the mouth of a

bay of great extent. They wind their way
through natural paths, in the midst of rocks
on dry land. The rocks take the most fantastic
shapes. There is a triangular cave of rock
in which fifty people might stand, and from
one angle of which is an opening into the air
above, where, as they discover, man has once
found a temporary home, for the walls show
the effects of fire and smoke. There is a
huge rock many cubits in circumference, and
of the height of twenty full-grown men standing
on each other's shoulders, yet resting, vast
as it is, by a narrow neck on quite a Httle
rock beneath it, so that it seems as if it would
topple over by the faintest wind. There is a
projecting rock like the prow of a vessel, and
another like the stern of a vessel. They
mount a height by a set of natural steps, and
coming upon a stony crest see, standing out in
the midst of a glade of trees, a great boulder,
shaped like a human head, on which the rude
native sculptors have cut a hideous face, a
demon of evil, fierce, merciless and devouring.
They start by their footsteps a hawk from
her nest, and see her fly away into the depth
beneath, leaving one of her helpless young

in the ferns at their feet. Simeon catches
the little bird and gives it, savage as it is, to
the gentle hands of Erine, who, admiring its
big black eyes while dreading its sharp and
powerful beak, soothes it so gently that it lies
on her bosom without fear. She fondles it,
kisses it, and putting it back into its nest with
a final caress, joins her father and Simeon in
descending into the glade.

They pass under an arch of rock carved
like honeycomb on its exquisite roofing and
columns ; and, in time, they arrive at a little
bay, walled in with trees so closely that there
seems, at first sight, to be no outlet for the
smallest craft, but at the bottom they find an
outlet which brings them to the shore of the
great river.

On the margin of this haven of repose
they watch and rest. A path of smooth grass
with shelving sides to the water might tempt
them to march westward, but their leader
knows his duty ; he tells them to wait here,
and he is willingly obeyed. What is waiting,
or time, or space, in a first day's love ?

Simeon and Erine know nothing of waiting,
of space, of time. To themselves space and

time are, as they are to themselves, one, and
all in all.

In some recesses of Simeon's memory the
details of a tragic life must needs be treasured
up. His early career in the desert of Carmel ;
his wanderings with the wonderful man who
nurtured him as his own child ; his education
under that consummate master ; his residence
in Caesarea and a marvellous event there that
brought him, in Eoman charge, to distant
Britain ; his trial here ; his awful conflict
and victory when death was close at hand ;
his more awful ordeal of fire, and even still
more miraculous escape ; all these facts must
be treasured up in his memory.

And his long and true companion, now
lost to him, the centurion of a hundred years,
the faithful Fidelis, he surely must ever be
in memory ?

Above all, that true and holy woman,
inspired to do what no other woman he
has ever known could do. She who would
most willingly lay down her life to save him,
who has filled his soul with her own inflaming
zeal ; she who has sung to him the
sweet songs of Israel ; prophesied to him his

future glory ; she who can cast out evil
spirits.

She, bearing the signs and seals of a divine
mission, cannot fail to be in his memory at
every moment, though all else be absent.

Not at this moment. No ! Not one of
them is present with him in memory now.

He and Erine are seated on the trunk of
a fallen tree, and Leon the wise, always questioning
nature, reminds them, as he tries to
solve it for himself, of a problem that rose
in his mind, as they passed through the
valley of rocks and discovered bodies of
large gnarled and wildly shaped trees springing
out of hard rocks as if they were a
part of the same, together with little ferns
and tender plants springing from similar hard
and barren soil.

How did the seeds of those living forms,
little and great, first take root? On what
do they thrive? How do they draw their
food and water from so unlikely a source ?

His listeners hear, yet do not heed : the
rustle of their palpitating hearts confuses their
reason.

As some thoughtless or rude nature stricken

by words that reach its heart undergoes
what is called conversion, and becomes a new
creature, so these natures, gentle, courageous,
youthful, have undergone a conversion equally
instant, deep, and incisive ; the conversion of
love.

What to them is the past, or all that it
contains ? What the present, with its knotty
problems of trees growing out of stones ?

What the future ?

They in their very rhapsody stop there.

By some hidden, bottomless mystery they
link their future with their present. The
future, unrecognisable as time, indescribable
as love itself, is inscrutably connected with
them and their rhapsody.

It feels to them both as something not
before them ; a distance without an horizon ;
a scene without a single object ; a period that
is an eternity.

Could they both die, would they not still
live ?

That child Erine, until a few hours ago,
knew herself only as a child. In her whole
being she understood but one affection for one
person who absorbed all persons, the father

who now sits musing on trees growing out
of rocks. My philosopher, there is a harder
puzzle even than that to solve close by thy
side. This child of thine has become by some
miracle a woman. She loves thee still ; but
oh fearful hut — she loves some one else
deeper than she loves thee.

Thou hast nursed her, shielded her, fed
her, clothed her, taught her, carried her in thy
strong yet gentle arms, soothed her to sleep,
waked her with the pure kiss of fatherhood,
been to her more than thou wert ever to
thyself.

On thee from her first look until now her
eyes have been set, on none so often and so
long. If thou wert absent for a brief period
how those eyes would weep lest she had lost
thee ! When thou didst return, how those eyes
would lighten with joy and those feet carry her
to thee until she was clasped in thy embrace I

Those lips how they hung on thine ! how
often have those hands beguiled thee into
quiet nooks and corners, that thy voice might
pour into her ears of pearl some tale of childish
marvel told and retold again and again
and again !

Those looks and expressions of admiration
trust, gratitude ; how often hast thou tasted
them and lived on them as on angels' food ?

It has been all true, great philosopher,
musing on trees growing on rocks ; but think
thou of this problem ; unravel it, and thou
art wiser than if thou discernment food in stones.

Why is it, as it truly is, that this thy child,
bone of thy bone, flesh of thy flesh, this child
whom thou hast cherished on richest soil of
love, would leave thee and cleave unto him
whom but three days ago it had not entered
her mind to conceive as living either in earth
or heaven ?

A rock, philosopher, may nourish a tree,
but answer thou this, what nourishes the love
of a maiden for the man on whom she has
transplanted her love? For aught she knows,
it may be a rock on which it is transplanted,
yet will it grow there even as the trees and
slender plants in the rock land of the forest.

It is a terrible fact, too, that the transplantation
of the love shall be so complete as
to leave thee practically childless.

Nay, weep not and wonder not. It is the
will of thine own goddess, Nature. What cares

Nature for thee or thy heart ? She wills that
the race shall live, not thou alone.

And, if she did not will that thy child
should leave thee and cling unto another, the
living world would stop tomorrow.

Who art thou, man, that should stop the
world of life ? Whatever thou art, wise as
Solomon, strong as Hercules, the world must
go on.

No man is more likely to understand this
hard lesson to the very bottom of it than Leon
the wise, when his eyes are open to receive it.

As yet he is meditating on the subject of
trees growing out of rocks, and much study,
like much love, or rather much study with
much love, makes him blind.

The lovers, for lovers they are now, signed
and sealed by fate, though they know it not
in all its fulness, rise and wander along the
grassy beach crushing the stones and sand with
their feet, and with slow pace, as if divining
from the earth some secret they want to know
and which the earth will not reveal to them.

Their eyes are cast down, but their hopes
are high, and their minds are in the sweetest
unrest.

It is very curious that they do not speak
the one to the other.

Have they been stricken dumb ?

They are moving upwards in regard to the
stream, so that its brisk and full current faces
them. Suddenly, with a cry of great joy, Erine
discovers, floating down the stream, something
which she recognises.

Simeon sees something also, but what
is it?

It must be the great Leviathan of which
he has read ; and, indeed, what else can it befor
its ' eyes are like the eyelids of the morning,
out of his nostrils goeth smoke, the flakes
of his flesh are joined together, the arrow could
not make him flee ; he makes the sea boil like
a pot, he makes a path to shine after him ! '

It must be Leviathan ! — Leviathan that
can never be taken by the hand of man.

It passes them swiftly, and they turn to
follow it until they reach the spot where they
had left their guide, by some waft of whose
hand the huge monster stops in its course.

Erine claps her hands with delight.
Simeon stands as one petrified with surprise.

The monster moves by the mere finger-guidance

of Leon ; now it backs a little up the
stream ; then it makes a sidling to the shore
where they stand ; again it backs up the
stream ; once more it sidles in until it is within
a few feet of them. Then along its mighty
backbone it splits attain, and behold the deck
of a boat of oriental splendour !

The covering arch, divided into two parts,
is slipped down on each side so as to become
the bulwarks or sides of the vessel, and a platform
pushed across to the shore allows the
travellers to step on board as though they were
traversing a bridge of dry land.

For a moment Leon hesitates, as if about
to carry his beloved child in his arms across
the little bridge, when, lo ! she has escaped, and
with her face aught with rapture is beckoning
not him, Leon, but Simeon, towards the deck
of Leviathan.

For the first time the study of the trees
and the rocks leaves the mind of Leon the
Wise for the study propounded above. He
sighs and says nothing.

As they enter on the deck some strains of
music welcome them. The crew come merrily
up to greet them ; the captain and his officers

are in ecstasy at their coming, and everything
is ready for their arrival. Yet two things
embarrass them : the presence of the stranger
and the demeanour of their master, Leon the
Wise. For a deep silence has fallen on Leon,
such as they have never before known.

Hitherto when he has rejoined them he
has been full of questions, has traversed every
part of the vessel, looked at every rope,
anchor, instrument ; called for the book of
events, and, hand in hand with Erine, has
spoken to every soul on board.

Now, with a general gentle recognition of
them all, he passes into his chamber or cabin
with a subdued and saddened expression on
his noble face.

And Erine, how changed she is ! On the
deck one of the chief officers planned some
few months before a swing, into which he has
been accustomed to lift her, and, starting her
off buoyant and light, has kept up the motion
until she herself has asked that she may ' die
down.' During her late absence he has done
up the swing afresh, has decorated it splendidly,
has added to its height, has furnished
it with a cord by touching which she can keep

the swing in motion by her own sweet will.
With the aid of three or four men he commences
to erect the swing so soon as the deck
is open, and now it is ready for use.

Can it be believed ? So changed is she, he
wishes he could drop the swing below the
deck. Lift her into it as he would have done
a month ago ! Absurd idea. She gives him a
gracious hand and smile as she passes rapidly
to her cabin, but the swing is quite unheeded.

The child has become a woman !

She too retires into her own apartment or
cabin and remains there.

Before they begin to comment on these
strange changes, Simeon attracts and diverts
their attention. To him the scene has a
freshness he cannot too closely grasp and hold.
He is even now almost of opinion that he is
in the body of some gigantic sea animal inhabited
by a spirit which animates and governs
it ; and he is not far wrong, for the marvellous
builder of this craft has taken the body
of a Leviathan for his model, has built upon
it on even a larger scale, and has filled it with
his own governing mind and reasoning soul.

The interpreter of the crew, who can speak

VOL. II. I

all known tongues, converses with him freely
in Hebrew, Greek, or Latin, Greek seeming
easiest to both of them, for Simeon knows
Ionic Greek intimately, and Goscius, the
learned and handsome interpreter, is a Greek
by birth and education, and such a scholar
of languages as none but a Greek can be.

Led by his new friend they pass through
all parts of Leviathan, by which name, so
slightly modified the difference is not worth
noting, the vessel is really called. They pass
to the lower decks ; they descend to a place
where the sailors, by working a pump which
causes water to lift a lever, set in motion
an archimedean screw, under which the vessel
can be moved at the will of the commander.
He is shown the air-chambers, which, as in
Leviathan the living, can be charged with air
to feed the crew should they wish to close in
and descend under water. He is shown how,
by letting in and letting out water, the vessel
can be raised or lowered at pleasure into the
water. He is taught by what an instant and
simple plan the back of Leviathan is closed
or opened. He is led to the stores of food and
grain ; to the place where the foods are cooked

and made ready for use. Then he is led to
the treasury or bank, entirely under the
control of Goscius, where all coins and valuables
are kept, and is shown every kind af
money suitable for commerce in every nation
they may visit.

The survey altogether opens up to Simeon
a new world, in which two facts stand over
and above all. There is not in the whole
community of the Leviathan a single secret
place or key, or spot where anything can be
hidden ; and there is not one single weapon
of offence or defence on any person or on any
wall or part of the vessel.

On the contrary, all here is arranged for
human knowledge and human pure delight.
Musical instruments are abundant, books and
pictures are everywhere, strange mechanical
contrivances he about, and on the lower deck
there is a veritable museum of natural curiosities,
the cleaning and setting and ordering
of which is a part of the work of all who are
on board. Erine has her cabinet of precious
shells and stones ; Goscius his of coins and
metals ; Leon his of mechanical models ; and
there are many more.

I 2

Simeon, if he stays, will have to make up a
cabinet of some kind like the rest.

If he stays ? Why, of course, he must stay.
Where else has he to go ? and if he had, how
could he be so ungenerous as to leave his preservers?
Besides, what would Erine say?

There is, moreover, something about this
crew that fascinates him, spell-binds him.
Their picturesque dresses of pure white, edged
with gold and held round the body with loose
silken scarves of red ; their purple headgear,
shaped like the broad leaf of a plant, flat on
the crest of the head and with the point
slightly overhanging the brow ; the richly-laced
sandals ; the smartness, good nature,
and beauty of the men themselves. All these
peculiarities fascinate him, and well they may.
In other vessels in which he has lived things
were done in an orderly way, no doubt, but
with much shouting, noise, and decided unwillingness
on the part of every man to do
any more than his own appointed duty. Here
every man does everything that is required
at the moment without hesitation, so that order
and comfort and cleanness are universal
Habits and universal benefits.

As the mind of Simeon gets attuned to the
scenes around him he becomes conscious of
his own singularity. He must be out of harmony
in his soiled and scorched and torn
garb, so different to theirs who are guiding
him about.

Struck with this discovery he apologises
to the friendly Goscius, who, appreciating his
difficulty, proceeds at once to remove it by
leading him to the strangers' cabin and supplying
him with every garment and every facility
that shall enable him to robe in unison with
the rest of the crew.

Like a child getting new clothes, Simeon
fits himself out for his part. He refreshes
himself with the bath ; he arrays himself in
his new garments. Surely Solomon in all his
glory was never more sumptuously, nevermore
comfortably attired.

In his bright apparel he seems to have
assumed a brighter nature ; his footstep is
more elastic, his body more erect, his limbs
more powerful and free. The merry attendant
who ministers to his wants looks on with
great admiration.

Thus rehabilitated he returns to the main

deck a new man, taller than any other man
there, slightly taller than Leon, and in mien,
manner, and build the most majestic of all.

No wonder that the sweet Erine has
developed so rapidly into a woman !

From the richly cushioned seats at the
stern of the vessel, which is now ploughing
along the river towards the western sea, Erine
and Leon rise to receive their guest. Leon is
clothed Hke his friends : Erine has nearly
the same attire, but has added to it, for the
first time in all her life, the light mantle of
womanhood — her mother's mantle, laid by
for many, many, a long year, and now brought
forth as a sign to him, whose child she is, that
she is no longer a child.

Leon knows his loss at last ; he recalls the
trees and tender plants growing out of the
rocks So from henceforth must his love
grow.

So shall it be.

He remembers how from her parents he
stole the love that came to him from her
whose mantle has fallen to-day on the shoulders
of his own, his only child. He sees the robber
who this time comes to him as he once came

himself. Perhaps there is a secret pang in
that moment of hesitation before he rises ; but,
if so, it is for no longer than a moment, and is
covered by the brightness of his voice as he
bids his princely guest ' welcome to Leviathan.'

The princely guest kneels his acknowledgment
with exquisite grace and dignity.

Is it all gratitude and homage, or is there
mixed with it the trembling hope that the
hand of the matchless Erine will help him to
rise?

If there were such a trembling hope it
need give him trouble no longer, for it is
realised in full as he rises and stands in radiant
joy with her hand in his and with her angelic
face uplifted towards his own.

Their gaze must be longer than they
imagine, for when it is over Leon has departed
from them and they are alone.

With tremendous force of torrent foaming
to the sea they pass as they stand, all in all
to themselves, the ruin of a Eoman pharos
or lighthouse, and roused from their reverie
by the voices of the crew, they cast up their
eyes to see on the crest of that pharos a
solitary man who waves to them his hand.

The Numidiann bear !

But how changed ! dressed now as a
Koman, and wearing on his head the cap of
liberty.

The sweet Erine, filled with affright, sinks
on the breast of Simeon as if to shield him
from an evil spirit, and he sustains her there
as if his life depended on her protection. But
towards his former foe he feels so little fear
and such strong regard, he calls out for Leviathan
to stop that the stranger may be taken
on board.

His voice is not heeded, for at this moment
there is seen coming up the stream in face of
them a fearful wave which, like a wall of water
in ramparts, will overwhelm them.

In an instant Leviathan closes, sinks, dives
beneath the wall of many waves, and when they
return to the surface, a mile at least away, the
lonely occupant of the pharos is visible no
longer.

But standing still, wrapped in that fast and
long and sweet embrace which knows no time
and feels no shame, they become conscious of
another form which has approached them

lovingly, and has called them both his children,
the children of Leon the Wise.

Between them another new love is born.
A son long lost has been restored to Leon,
in whom son, and daughter never lost, are
absorbed as one.

It is a new love, but precious as the old
and boundless as the open sea which Leviathan
is now about to breast and to conquer.

CHAPTER VII.

ANTINOUS AND FAME.

We may with advantage rest for a brief moment
here, in order to explain what was the nature
and the import of the news which caused
Hadrian to leave the Noviomagians so hastily
and anxiously, and why the Senate should so
eagerly demand his return to the heart of the
empire.

There is sedition amongst the Jews.

The Jews are a conquered people. Long
before this time Vespasian and Titus drove
them out of their Holy City, laid bare and
laid low their Holy of holies, scattered them
like chaff before the wind into the different
quarters of the wide earth, and planted the
Eoman standard over the strongholds of
Palestine.

Moreover, these rulers, their predecessors

and their successors, have planted Eoman money
in every market and store, the strongest proof
that Caesar is everywhere. When men carry
the head of Caesar, in metallic casting, in the
pouches of their dress and find that head
passing for the purchases of life, there Caesar
must reign if anybody reigns at aU.

To all external signs and proofs Caesar
reigns, beyond a shadow of a doubt, over
Palestine and over every man in it.

Let a Jew try the question and see how
he likes the answer. Let him declare himself
a Pharisee, a Sadducee, an Essene, a Nazarene,
a Gnostic, an Ebionite, or any other of the
then prevailing Jewish sects, and let him, in
declaration and defence of his faith, refuse
to burn incense to Caesar !

He will not forget the refusal, even if he
survive it. Our own Simeon is a proof
sufficient of this fact.

The present Caesar, Hadrian, has no particular
care about sects, nor, in a personal
sense, any care whatever about the adoration
paid to him as a man. He is an Athenian
scholar, versed in philosophy, admitted to the
highest degree of philosophy as an archon, a

friend of the great teachers of the Athenian
schools, including Aristides himself, and is
above all vindictive passions about sects and
doctrines pure and simple. To Fortunatus he
writes respecting the great centre of learning,
Alexandria, that the place is made up of
Jews, Samaritans, Christians, and worshippers
of the Egyptian deities, but that in the midst
of their contests and quarrels about their faiths
the sects worship, in reality, but one god,
and that god is money.'

Hadrian, therefore, has no religious feeling
against the Jews as Jews. On the contrary,
he is rather smitten with the Gnostic culture
which some of them have supported and
developed, the refined mysteries and exalted
hopes of that culture being well attuned to
his poetic mind. But when Eome is challenged,
and when Hadrian as Emperor is defied, then
the Caesar breaks forth with all the fire of
Caesar. Then from what seems, and what
ordinarily is, a mild and gentle man there
issues the most fearful vengeance, tempered
only by a sense of fear and superstitious dread
of some power mightier than his own, which
does not disdain, any more than he himself

disdains, to manifest itself through human
agency.

The Jew under the rule of Hadrian is,
therefore, whatever his sect may be, perfectly
safe if he conforms to Eoman law and is ready
to show his subjugation by lawful homage to
the chosen Head of the Eoman Power. But
woe be to him if his lawful homage fail.

The Jews are a conquered race ? No !
so long as one human pair remains to keep
a race alive, a race is never conquered. So
they believe, and they are right. Hadrian
never so many may beat them, punish them,
burn them, crucify them, degrade them ; let
that one solitary pair, from which the race
can be continued, remain, and that race may
yet have its turn and conquer all the Hadrian
and their followers.

Did not Adam and Eve, one pair, people
the world .^

The Jews at this time have many thousands
of human pairs who will pair with none out
of their own race. They are borne down by
numbers and by Eoman discipline, but conquered
? Never.

Hadrian of all men knows and feels this

truth ; knows it better than the Senate that
has sent for him. The Jewish hne of people is
to him like a worm which you may divide with
a sharp instrument, and out of every divided
part a new and perfect organisation will
grow.

In addition to this knowledge he is filled
with a superstitious dread of this chosen
people. Their God is a God of battles, and
in his might, majesty, and ultimate dominion
they have a confidence which nothing can
shake. Their belief is born in them, and has
come down in the stream of generations.
They know that their God will never leave
them nor forsake them ; punish them, yes ;
let them feel their own weakness for a time,
yes. But leave them, forsake them ! Never.
They are his flock and the sheep of his
pasture.

They are, too, a wise people. In craft
and subtlety the Eoman hordes are to them as
so many blocks of wood and stone. Even he,
Hadrian, a Spaniard with not a drop of Eoman
blood in his veins, but with some ancient
Egyptian blood there, is no match for them.
Their rod eats up his rod, as in the days of the

Pharaoh. What they cannot do by strength
they will do by subtlety.

Worst of all, to him, they are, as he believes,
an inspired people. They can perform
what others can do no more than hope for.
This mighty One of theirs, who governs above
all Loves and Juno and Eoman deities, deigns
to fill with some part of his own omnipotence
certain of these chosen of his chosen. What
evidence of this fact could be clearer than is
afforded in this new Antinous, his matchless
attendant in disguise, who can cast out devils
and make crippled men regain their lost
power ?

And these are the people who once more
are rising up in rebellion against Eome ?

To go at once to Eome to crush this rebellion
in the bud is an instant determination.
About that there can be no hesitation. Yet,
suppose the rebellion be not easily crushed,
what shall he do ?

He has made up his mind. He will try
first the art of winning them over by goodwill
and generosity and humour.

In Lucius Quietus, a Moor and a creature
of the uncompromising Trajan, they have had

a harsh and cruel governor. He will give
them one as genial as the gentlest season, a
jovial governor who has no prejudices and who
will let them, if they will, govern themselves.

They shall have the happy Tinnius Eufus
to rule over them. They are sure to like
him ; and if Boadicea, who resembles a Jewess
very closely, should become one, so much the
better.

Should Eufus fail, then there is only one
man who will not fail. If generous rule will
not answer, if force, after all, must be tried,
there is only one man, and there is one man,
who must fill the place of Eufus and try his
merciless hand.

Julius Severus must be called from Britain
to Palestine, and Eufus with his Boadicea must
come back to Britain.

Meantime Hadrian himself, taking with him
the new governor of Palestine, must go instantly
to Eome, keeping also Antinous and
Tryphon, both of Jewish blood, in his councils
and safe custody, loading them with honours,
and using them and their wisdom to govern
their own people.

With these secret resolves Hadrian and his

suite leave the camp at Londinura on their way
Homewards. They pass through the people
called the Cantii, rest a day or taro at Duro-brice,
and then to Debris on the southern
coast, where they find a little fleet ready to
carry them across to Gaul.

Their journey through Gaul, though rapid,
is triumphant, for the Emperor, in order to
impress the natives with his power, throws off
the seclusion and privacy which are so natural
to him, in order to exhibit the symbols
of his authority and strength. He visits Lug-unum,
the seat of the government of Gaul
and the birthplace of Claudius Caesar, and
moving on to Massilia, crosses by sea to Italy,
stopping only at Sardinia, and thence direct
to Italy, landing at Neapolis, the ancient Parthenope,
and so, by land, to Imperial Eome.

Throughout this eventful journey triumph
seems to march with him every foot of the
way ; and yet the heart of the Emperor is
low. The lowness is not without cause, for at
every large centre the news of trusty and secret
messengers has been of most serious import.
Everywhere the report has come that the Jews
are rising in great power, and with determined
VOL. II. K

zeal, for the cause they live to serve. The
most careful inquiry has failed to detect any
proof that this resolute people possess an
armoury of any kind. They have been prohibited
bearing arms ; they have been prohibited
learning the use of arms. Where then
can be the danger ?

No one can answer that question, and yet
every one fears. The Jews, it is whispered,
have money and subtlety, and they are about
to rise in rebellion.

In Sardinia they get news of the so-called
rising in Cyprus. It was a scare, as it reached
the ears of the Emperor, and caused Tryphon
and Antinous to smile. A Eoman officer had
taken away by force the wife of a Jew, and
the Recesses of the place where their countrywoman
was concealed, having got news of the
matter, had gained entrance into the place of
concealment by the stratagem of one of them,
who, playing again the part of Judith, had
slain the Eoman offender, had let in the rest
of her accomplices, had strangled all the slaves
and eunuchs, and restored the stolen wife to
her liberty.

Is this all ? If it were, it would be foolish

of a great Emperor to punish the Jews at
large because a set of women resisted what
every true and noble Eoman would consider
a foul act if it were carried out against one of
his own female kindred.

The entry of the Emperor into Eome is
imposing and at the same time mournful.
The gate of the temple of Janus, at the foot
of the capitol, is shut, in proof that universal
peace reigns ; but the people are in doubt.
For more than a month a comet having the
shape of a sword has hung over the city ; and
in the vessel which carries the Emperor from
Sardinia to Neapolis one of the sacred chickens
dies after communicating its fatal malady to
all the rest.

Two portents of terrible meaning.

And, the day after the arrival of C^sar it
is discovered by the keeper of the temple of
Janus that one of the gates of the temple is
unfastened, and is moving with the wind ;
a portent as potent as either of the other
two.

The meeting of the Emperor and of Sabina
his wife is friendly, but neither warm nor enthusiastic.
They meet as old companions, glad

K 2

fcr a moment to renew their acquaintanceship,
but nothing more.

Tryphon is far more warmly welcomed,
for the Empress has a favourite slave who is
suffering from an issue of blood which she sets
Tryphon to cure, that the sight of the blood
may not longer offend her. The return of the
Skilled physician could not be more opportune.

Tryphon wonders how Antinous will be
received by his Imperial mistress, whose will is
very much law, and who knows the law as well
as the will. He smooths the way for Antinous,
describes his noble horsemanship, of which art
the Empress is a connoisseur ; expounds how
the pleasant tongue, excellent spirits, and
sound common sense of the youth cheer the
Emperor and keep him from pursuit of false
pleasures as vain reliefs from pain and languor
of mind ; and with the cleverest deception
conveys the facts of the marvellous gifts which
the youth possesses for the all but magical cure
of the worst forms of human diseases.

The Empress listens at first incredulously.
She will receive Antinous. She does receive
Antinous, and is more incredulous still. There
is something about the youth she cannot understand.

Is Tryphon sure that this youth is
the Antinous of Bithynia whom Pliny sent
to Trajan? The parents of that youth had
no repute for the possession of these divine
qualities. Does he, Tryphon, believe that a
youth of such low origin could possess so many
virtues and accomplishments ? Does the youth
really possess them ; or is there not in someway
which she, the Empress, cannot define,
though she can suspect it, a cheat or mystery
going on in regard to the matter ?

These are some of the Imperial woman's
queries, hard to meet even by the subtlest of
aU the school of the Asclepiades.

One day, in confidence with Tryphon, she
casts a doubt on the very sex of the popular
courtier. The perplexity is at a crisis now,
but gradually from this time the mind of the
Empress is quieted.

Her doubts increase so much, she feels it
necessary that she shall put them to the test.
She must try them and prove them.

Nothing could be more fortunate for
Antinous. It is one thing for a woman to
doubt, it is another for her to prove a doubt
of this kind.

In her early life Sabina was a famous
huntress. She proposes an expedition in which
Antinous shall take part. Antinous has never
hunted, but has no kind of objection to take
a lesson in the sport. Sabina will be to him
Diana. Teaching Antinous, she will soon know
by every movement, by every step of progress,
what Antinous is — man, or woman in disguise.
The Emperor at first demurs ; he is afraid of
exposing his favourite to danger, but, under a
little pressure, assents, though he will not himself
join in the sport ; neither will Tryphon.

It is well. Sabina has the favourite entirely
under her own care and observation.

They start out a goodly and handsome
court to some wooded plains far away, where
a boar of great and savage renown is said to
be. The Empress is accompanied by quite a
train of noble youths of Eome, some of whom
take with them ten attendants.

Antinous takes the only attendant Antinous
possesses, one who has now come to Eome
to render his faithful service ; Eli, the once
Numidiann slave of Milo the centurion, whom
Fidelis bought and freed and gave away.

Eli is enraptured with the expedition ;
there is not one trick of skill in the hunting of
the boar which he does not understand, a fact
which none save Antinous knows. Between
them therefore they establish a rule that in all
things Antinous shall copy him, Eli ; then, soon
a new and skilful hunter of hunters will be
added to the field.

On their way they rest for a day in a plain,
where they encamp. To pass the time they
exercise themselves with bow, javelin, and
spear. Antinous is the best rider of them all.
Sabina grants it ; but how will he bend the
bow, discharge the arrow, or throw the
javelin?

Eli, ever at hand, carrying the arms, tests
them first ere he places them in the hand of
his master. The master, with the eye of a lynx,
reads, learns, and follows every movement.

Sabina condescends to give the lesson, but
Eli is the master who is followed.

No, great Empress, there is not a touch
of the woman's skill in this pupil of thine !
None but a youth of the male sex could
ride, discharge an arrow, or cast a javelin as
Antinous does it.

They reach the scene of their sport, and
after another day of rest take the field. The
savage animal is found and pursued. Antinous,
by command of the Empress and followed by
Eli, makes for a thicket on the right hand in
order to intercept the animal should it turn
in that direction.

The animal does not turn, and Sabina and
three of her knights keep on in pursuit. In
her eagerness she outstrips her followers, and
soon the monster, hearing no clash of horses
behind, turns round to see the solitary woman
before him.

Her arrow flies and fixes itself in his side,
but only with sufficient depth to enrage him
the more. He approaches her in triumph, and
her javelin, splendidly discharged, does worse
than the arrow ; it inflicts, in passing, a gaping
wound on the back of the animal, and then
stands obliquely fixed in the earth, buried
more than half its length.

Flight is now the lonely Empress's sole
resource, and grandly she takes it ; but her
pursuer is also grand in pursuit. Leap by leap
he gains ground, and at last, seizing with his
fierce jaws its heel he stops her horse with a

jerk which throws her some feet forward on
the ground.

She has just had time, by a side movement,
to see Antinous in the distance discharging
his bow. She hears the whiz of the shaft
through the air, she feels the jerk that dismounts
her, and she is conscious at the same
time that her enemy is transfixed by the dart.
She tries to raise herself to see the final
struggle, and with a cry of delight as the
javelin of Antinous enters the open mouth of
the boar and digs itself into his heart she
becomes unconscious to all further fear and
all further joy.

One by one the straggling knights come
up to the rescue, and, finding that their mistress
lives and breathes, are ready to bear her
away. Under the direction of Antinous they
make a litter of their unstrung bows and cover
it with mosses and soft grasses until it is turned
into a springy easy couch ; on this, as she
afterwards remembers, a strong arm places
her, an arm none less strong than that of
Eli, but to her mind the arm of Antinous, and
certainly not the arm of a woman.

The spoil is cut up by the knives of the

huntsmen, the head of the boar is carried on
the javelin that pierced its gaping mouth, the
litter bearing the Empress is borne in turn
by the knights, and ere they reach the camp
from which they started, the Imperial lady is
so far recovered that she has but one further
pang.

Action, her favourite hunter, torn by the
boar, was so helplessly maimed that he had,
for mere mercy's sake, to be slain at the spot
where he fell.

But for this untoward event the return of
the hunters to Rome from the chase has been
a triumphal march.

The Emperor rides out in state to meet
them, and Festa, the favourite slave of the
Empress, follows also in the train, quite cured ;
cured not by Tryphon but by one his superior
in deeds of cure, one who can cure in absentia.
Festa has had a trance, during which she
thought her beloved mistress had been in a
danger from which she could not possibly have
been saved except for Antinous, but when she
recovered it was she herself who had been
saved, for her malady had left her.

The .voice in the trance spoke clearly the

name of Antinous ; Tryphon, usually so jealous
of his own skill as a healer, admits that all
the honour is due to the Emperor's favourite
knight and counsellor ; and the grateful
Sabina, now entirely relieved of all her doubts
and prejudices, joins with the rest in their
praises.

Sabina has tasted, nay, has eaten her
proofs, and they nourish her with so much faith
in the virtues of Hadrian's favourite that she,
in turn, is jealous of all other admirers of
Antinous.

So in a short time the name of Antinous
is a household word in Eome, and wherever
else the legions going out of Eome carry Eome
into the empire at large, it is a name of
magical renown.

CHAPTER Viii.

LATENT WAR.

There are no great events in nature chat are
not portended.

The great cosmic convulsions of nature
which occur independently of man have for
their portents physical signs which men mayor
may not read, but which are always thrown
out like the scout before the battle. The
great social convulsions which come by and
through man have their portents in mental
phenomena. For, like the vast atmospheric
sea, the mind of man in its universality has
its depressions, its elevations, its storms, all
of which have their portents when we are
learned enough to read them.

We live for ever in a sea of mind.

The day will come when we shall know
the signs which tell and foretell the perturbations
the mental sea endures, its moods and

tenses, it storms, its calms, its unequal measures
of pulsation.

Thus it often happens before a great
social convulsion that, although the social
sky is clear, men feel the portents of a storm
of war as they do of thunder and rain.

The portent is felt universally, the surest
proof of its significance. If it travelled in hues
of human intercourse it might be mere extension
of rumour. When it centres in all hearts
in and out of the courses of commerce and
travel, it means disturbance of a sad and
terrible nature.

In the period of history in which we now
for a few hours assume to live, we feel and
see the perturbation of the mental ocean,
portending decisive war, although no new
seat or cause exciting to war is definite. But
the war, whenever it does break out, is to be
between the all-powerful Eoman and the subdued,
down-trodden Jew.

Fortunatus, the friend of Servien, the
Governor of Jaffa ; Fortunatus, whose acquaintance
we ought to cultivate more had we
the time on our hands for such a true pleasure ;
Fortunatus, who has travelled a great deal,

observed well for himself, and always taken the
fate awarded to him easily ; Fortunatus smiles
at the suggestion of any such portent. He
asks from Servien, who shares in the general
impression, for the proofs and the evidences.

IIow can men who have no arms, no
soldiers, no officers, and no leader, fight Eome,
which is of all existences an armoury, a
soldier, a general, and a C^sar? Absurd.'

'Their arms,' replies Lucilla, who has taken
part in the debate, and who sympathises with
her husband, ' their arms are their own arms,
their soldiers are themselves, their general is
the scholar Akiba, and their king is the King
of kings and Lord of lords.'

A woman's emotion in innocent sympathy
with her own people,' responds the courtly
visitor. ' I grant that if any wild enthusiasm
should ever rouse them into action, if
they .should have amongst them a man of war
who assumed to fulfil the prophecies of their
Messiah, leading them to victory, then the
Jews might be a thorn indeed in the side of
Caesar.'

The point, the very point, great philosopher,'
returns Lucilla.

What every Jew believes, from Akiba to
the lowest of his race, and what every Jewess
believes, is that the deliverer has come.'

But who and where is he ? '

'He whom all Jews now know. The
Star of Jacob, whom Akiba, directed by a star,
found in the desert. He is, in our lancruase,
Bar-Cochebas, or Bar-Cohab, the son of a star.
But where he is at this moment the wisest of
Jews, Akiba himself, knows not. Akiba only
knows that in due time, he, the ordained and
pre-ordained, ordained ere ever yet the foundations
of the earth were laid, will come and lead
to victory the chosen people.'

The free and gentle cynicism of the gallant
and happy Fortunatus was roused by the enthusiasm
of Lucilla almost into a similar tone,
but with a different impulse.

A craze, a craze, noble lady ; a craze of
the scholar and man of the schools.' I have
learned, since thou related to us the wonderful
story of Akiba, something more of him
than even thou knowest, and which thou
shouldest add to thy narrative. Akiba is really
the son of the illustrious Sisera, by one
of the Jewish daughters of Jabin, kinf^ of

Tyre, whom Joseph, his reputed father, was
afterwards made to marry and carry into
the plains ; and this child whom, led by
a mirage of a Eoman cavalcade, Akiba found,
was the son of one of nobler blood than
he. .

More about the parentage of this foundling
I would not have Akiba know ; for this
craze of his about the youth, at present a
subject of mirth were it not connected within
all other respects, so wise and great a
man, might then indeed become a serious
event to Eome as well as Palestine. Happily,
perchance, for him " The Son of a Star," like
the wandering Pleiad, has gone forth from his
constellation for ever.

Akiba' s love put out Akiha's star ! '
'You speak in parable, good Fortunatus.'
No parable, lady ; 'tis a plain and simple
matter of fact. Akiba, thou knowest, fell in love
and ran away with the beautiful princess of the
house of Sala, leaving the child that he had
made his idol in the school of Elkanah the scribe
at Caesarea ; and when he returned, as you have
told us, the child and all were gone, their very
house and synagogue destroyed. The story

interested me so much I have been to Caesarea
and have discovered from a centurion, who
played a part in it, the whole of the history.'
And what, pray thee, is the story ? '
I will tell thee, but that which is told in
the house of the Governor of Joppa must be
safe as if it were in the bosom of Caesar himself.
Elkanah the scribe and teacher, fired by the enthusiasm
and faith of Akiba, grew also fanatic
about this mysterious youth. Setting his face
against the law, he had the youth and his own
daughter and only child, Huldah, taught the
use of arms and horsemanship ; and, finally,
at a great congregation, presented the youth
to the assembled people as their Messiah, Lord
and Deliverer.

^ The congregation, composed of two rival
communities of Jews, called respectively Samaritans
and Galleons, heard the words of
Elkanah with great tumult. The Galileanss,
of which he was one, were with him heart and
soul. The Samaritans, representing an ancient
feud, were opposed as heartily. The anger
waxed from words to blows. With a loud
and furious voice they made themselves
weapons out of the wood and iron of the

VOL. II. L

synagogue and of the house and school of
Elkanah, and would have killed each other
mercilessly but for the interposition of a tried
soldier of Eome, who, coming upon the disturbers
with his hundred disciplined men,
surrounded them. The Jews then combined
against Eome and the fight was desperate ; but
the Eoman order and might prevailed, although
a tenth of the Eomans licked the
dust. Every Jew who remained alive after the
affray was put to death by the sword, except
Elkanah, who, for a greater example, was
crucified on the plain outside Caesarea. The
two children, the new Messiah of the Galilean
Jews and Huldah, the daughter of Elkanah
who was crucified, were found concealed in
the holy place of the synagogue, and were
retained until Trajan, the Emperor, should
give his orders concerning them.'

And the order was ? '

I have seen it, lady ; have read it with
mine own eyes. It is' the most mysterious
order ever penned ; it is the order of a dying
Emperor and soldier written and signed at
the very hour of his death :

'• Let the centurion who captured the

children of the rebellious Jews take them iu
charge to the remotest province of the Empire.
Let him teach the lad Eoman arts, as if
he were his own son ; let the maiden be his
bond-woman ; and, when he dies let them be
returned to my successor, with the sealed
charge herewith enclosed, that the Caesar then
reigning may do with them as he seeth best.
But let no Jew knoww^iither they are exiled."

This, lady, was the fate of the idol of
Akiba, and so well has the order of Trajan
been carried out, that at this moment not
oily no Jew, but no Eoman I can find, knows
the fate '

Of the son of Trajan,' interposed Lucilla,
unable to repress her feminine skill in unravelling
mysteries of birth.

The guess may be right, lady, but it is
not so set forth. It is known that there was
a priestess in the temple of Daphne, near
Antioch, a Jewess of the royal house of the
Jewish David ; that of this priestess Trajan
was enamoured ; that she forfeited her vows,
as it is believed, for him ; that, returning to
her own people, she was destroyed by them ;
and that her sister, who as the wife of Elkanah,

L 2

was also slain in the affray at Caesarea, was a
prophetess and miracle-monger named Tamar,
whom Trajan knew, and in whose incantations
he more than half believed.'

Every Tamar from the first is possessed of
a spirit of good or of evil ; that is well known.
So the children were sent forth ? '

The children were sent forth, lady, and
were known in Eoman and Jewish life no more.
In the minds of the Jews who were allowed to
remain in Caesarea after the revolt both children
were slain with the rest in the synagogue,
but this strange Akiba, believing the youth to
be alive, has his spies in every corner of the
earth ready to deliver to him messages, in
their native gibberish, by day and by night.
Yet all in vain. Akiba will tire at last.'

The Jews, good Fortunatus, have a proverb
which I may repeat to thee, who lowest
parables and proverbs as my Servien loves
arms and horses :

A Jew in earnest neither tires nor rests,
Till sickness wearies him or death restrains." *

A most true proverb, my Lucilla,' broke
in Servien, who had listened to the conversation
in his. stolid, silent manner ; ^ a most true

proverb, as this worldly old courtier would
know if he had half as many Jews to deal with
as I have, without throwing in the craftiest of
them all put together, that very Akiba whom
both of you in your hearts so much admire,
whom it is my duty to keep under vigilant eye,
and never more than now, when he hath on
him a fit of unusual unrest.'

While he is thus speaking a guard enters
with a despatch from the Governor of Jerusalem
to Servien, Governor of Joppa.

Akiba again ! There is no word but Akiba
in all the Jewish mouths. The word will be
found engraved on my heart should I ever be
sold to the disciples of Cristatus, who cut up
men alive, to see the movements of life. I
would to Jupiter that Akiba had never come
out of Paradise, or that he would go back toit
for good. Vale ! vale ! '

And so saying, as he read the despatch
from Jerusalem, the faithful and worried
Governor of Joppa, good and honest soldier,
but no match for untiring genius fanned by
the spirit of liberty, leaves his companions.

To each quarter of Joppa the Koman

governor bends his steps, to see with his own
eyes that every man under him is at his post.
He has about him no guard, for he wishes to
be alone, to see and judge for himself. Besides,
his sentinels are all within call, and these Jews,
troublesome as they may be, are so utterly
helpless they can do him no possible physical
injury.

He is musing to himself, as he goes slowly
along, after the manner of a man who will
resume a conversation or a controversy when
next he rejoins his family circle. He is
wondering, in his way, as to what these Jews
can possibly want beyond what they have.
They enjoy, he reasons, all the advantages of
Eoman rule ; they have really the same liberty
as the noblest Eoman subject. Some of them
are Jews of the old schools, some are philosophers
; some belong to one or other of the
sects called Essences, Nazarenes, Gnostic,
Ebionites : and every one of these people is
allowed to exercise his own religious rites, even
though he empties the temples of the Eoman
gods and almost stops the demand for the
sacrifices. Moreover, they can buy and sell,
amass money, plant vineyards, marry and be

given in marriage, travel wherever they please,
write histories, cultivate music and science ;
do, in fact, everything except rule and govern.
What more can they want ? They say
they want liberty, so that they shall not bethe
servants of C^sar. But what Liberty has
Servien which every Jew has not? Is not
Servien also a servant of Caesar ? Why, his
own name carries the fact, and his own duty,
servitude of servitudes, confirms it. Side by
side with him this man Akiba is a king to a
slave.'

Servien is at heart as just and gentle a
man as a Eoman soldier can be, but he revolts
up to the point of the worst cruelty against
the men and women who are so obstinate and
rebellious towards Eoman rule and their own
good.

Should any one tell Servien that liberty
does not mean mere permission to enjoy what
a conquering race in its generosity or, may be,
its policy permits to a conquered race ; should
any wise and far-seeing man tell Servien that
this question of liberty is entirely a racial
question, and that a Jew can no more conform
to Roman rule than a Roman could conform

to Jewish ; did any one show to Servien that
if he, Servien and all his brethren, were under
the dominion of Akiba as the Jewish Emperor
of the world, he and they would be precisely
what he and they now detest, men everlastingly
plotting to free themselves from the
dominion that is held over them, he would
not listen to such arguments ; they would be
too impractical and too absurd.

'Nonsense,' he would say, 'these people I
am set to govern are false, by nature, to all
except themselves. They are, by the side of
us rulers, a degraded set, dissatisfied with
C^sar and with everything. Coerce them,
coax them as much as you may, they are still
ready to rise if you take off an ounce weight
of the required repression. Give them their
wish to govern themselves, and they will
merely quarrel amongst themselves and invite
us to rule them again. They are not
capable of self-government ; and shall we
dismember the empire of the world to please
some five millions of such a race ? Ridiculous
idea ! Let Eome and Caesar reign for ever.
By means fair or foul Eome has accepted the
trust of governing these people, and she were

a coward now, out of a mere sentiment, to
give up the trust. To the conquered as well
as the conqueror it were unfair to the loyal
section of the conquered to give up one poor
pennyweight of authority. Let Home give
just laws and enforce their obedience, and let
Eome and Caesar live for ever.'

He has arrived just so far in his meditations
when his attention is diverted by an
entirely new phenomenon.

He has reached a point near to one of
the schools under the charge of Akiba, from
which a tower abuts that has been built for
astronomical purposes. Fortunatus and himself
have more than once visited that tower,
to notice the very curious observations of the
movements of the heavenly bodies that are
being made from it. An ingenious artisan from
Alexandria has put up a glass by which the
images of the moon and stars are cast on the
floor of the tower by night, the disc of the sun
by day. He has placed figures on this floor
in a circle, and the sun, moon, and stars seem
to traverse the circle, through more or less of
its circumference, according to the seasons. To
mark these courses lines have been drawn on

the floor of the tower, and these, reduced in
size, have been copied by the students into
maps or charts of the heavenly bodies in their
daily or nightly rounds.

Fortunatus says it is the most wonderful
instrument that has been made since the days
of Heraclitus, and Akiba is pleased with it, but
rather in a tone of secondary quality, which
is peculiar in him.

Perhaps,' Servien suggests, ' because he is
jealous of the inventor.'

Akiba knows no such passion as jealousy,
my old Servien. If he did, he were dead
long ere this. Jealousy is a certain poison if
it affect even the noblest minds. You have
no arrow so swift, no javelin so sure. Akiba
is not jealous, that is certain, but he also
is not really interested, which is indeed
singula'. It is in my mind that the invention is
for service rather than for curiosity or learning,
and that this tower conceals some other uses
or intentions.'

So reasons the worldly Fortunatus on the
last visit he and Servien have paid to the
tower ; and now Servien, all alone and thinking
of other things, is within sight, so far as

the light of the brilliant stars will permit, of
this curious structure.

He raises his eyes to look at it, lying in
dull shadow from the other buildings, when
suddenly there seems to shoot from it a ball,
like a stone thrown from a catapult.

The missile, whatever it may be, falls with
tremendous force one stride from his feet.

Undoubtedly Servien, the Governor of
Joppa, was a moment ago only one step from
death.

A Eoman governor is not a man to fear
and, instantly, this one stoops to pick up the
missile. It is broken by the fall into twenty
pieces of sharp hard substance like crystal,
and it has scattered round it a quantity of
dust, which, as Servien accidentally stirs it,
bursts into yellow flame that spreads wherever
the powder has spread and gives out an
odour like garlic, but much sharper and more
oppressive.

Happily, as he afterwards thinks, a rather
sharp wind is blowing away the vapour which
rises from this damnable fire, or he might now
be killed by the fumes of it. The fire soon
dies out ; it has sufficed by its light to enable

the undismayed governor to pick up the
fragments of crystal, and all is over.

The fragments of crystal must be reserved
for Fortunatus to see and examine ; so
Servien, soldierlike, utilise his metal helmet
for carrying them. The helmet has served
him before now for a vessel holding water,
and more than once for holding small articles
of spoil, so it is ready to his hand.

Carrying the fragments he has picked up,
he retraces his steps to a guard-house he
has just left, and in a safe place conceals them
there under lock and key, without one soul
seeing him.

The interval gives him time to reflect on
what shall next be done. Did he follow his
own pure soldierlike impulse he would call
out a guard and at once, by force, suddenly
enter the tower of observation and pull it down
to the ground. But, what would Fortunatus
say to this ? Would he not call it a rash
and unstatesmanlike act, the very act to raise a
tumult and ensure a foolish failure? Fortunatus
is a mile away from Servien, and no
time should be lost in this inquiry. Servien
must do something. What shall he do?

A mere trifle is apt to lead to a decision
in circumstances like these. On the sea he
observes, as he leaves the guard-house, a thin
streak of light reflected from a window in the
gable of a part of the schools standing on the
shore. It is the reflection of the light from
the study of Akiba. Akiba, then, is still at his
studies. He will visit Akiba off his guard. It
will be quite natural for him, Servien, on his
rounds to wish to see the floor of the tower
at midnight, when the stars are chronicling
their courses, and, there being a light in the
window of the philosopher, he need not hesitate
to solicit the favour. As governor he has the
right to go wherever he may list at any time,
but he will put it as a favour, so as to conceal
all suspicion of alarm.

With perfectly collected soldierly manner
Servien carries out his project. He passes
with measured tread under the window of the
student ; he opens the door of the vestibule
or passage leading to the door of the study ;
not a door is barred, and all is as quiet as a
sepulchre. An immense staircase, leading upto
the schools, is darker than the sky outside
and quite as solemnly noiseless and vacant.

He enters the study or sanctum of the
scholar with a kind of awe creeping over him,
which is an entirely new sensation. It is a
sensation made up partly of dislike to be, asa
soldier, engaged in a secret service, an
espial, the work of a mean man paid for a
useful, perhaps, but ignoble service. It is
a sensation also of some mysterious fear of
this wonderful man who has entered, as Lucilla
believes, the Paradise of the Jews and has come
out alive.

To these feelings may be added that sense
of diffidence or difficulty which always comes
on a person who is about for the first time to
speak to a great and remarkable man with
whom alone he has never exchanged a word.
These combined feelings so influence Servien
that, if there had been time, he might have
given up his design at the last moment. This
is impossible, for as he enters the sanctum
the dark eyes of Akiba are shining lustrously
upon him. Akiba is seated in a recess immediately
in front of the door, the light of a
lamp on his left hand enabling him to see
from his obscurity every thing and every
movement in the room, whilst it reflects

himself dimly, almost terribly. He is at his
writing-table with all his books about him, the
stylus in his hand and the parchment or paper
he is inscribing upon, from right to left, under
his hand.

As Servien enters Akiba rises, and doffing
his berretta and adjusting his silken robe over
his shoulders, bows to his unexpected visitor
with a calm and dignified expression that is
more effective than any spoken welcome.

Servien in turn is moved to ceremony ; he
raises his metal cap with his right hand, rests
his left hand on the hilt of his sword, and
bends down his honest head as if he where
about to ask a blessing from the Eabbi before
him.

Salve, salve, noble Servien ! ' is the greeting
of Akiba ; ' 'tis indeed an honour for a poor
scholar of a despised race to receive by night
a visit from the Vice-Caesar of Joppa. Is it
for any service my learning or skill can sender
my lord and governor ? '

I know it to be an unearthly hour to call
on the renowned Akiba,' returns Servien, 'buta
man walking in the night grows weary of
monotony, and seeing thy light burning, I was

drawn, as it were, to court thee in order to ask
a favour.'

'To us scholars, my lord, time is no element.
We are children of time and live in its essence.
It is our father and our destroyer ; it feeds us
and kills us ; it lifts us into fame and it carries
us into oblivion.'

A bright fame and a far-distant oblivion
for Akiba ! '

Nay, illustrious friend, if I may so call a
truly brave and honest soldier, fame is fleeting
and oblivion is sure. But what, I pray thee,
is it I can do for thee ? '

'A simple favour indeed. Some days
since my old comrade and visitor, the courtly
Fortunatus, a bosom friend of Caesar, went with
me to the roof of the tower thou hast built, on
which the Alexandrian inventor has made the
heavenly bodies trace their own records. We
saw the record done in the day, and the lustre
of the stars led me to wish to see the same by
night.'

Is that all the Governor of Joppa requires
? ' replies Akiba. ' Then, indeed, it is a
small favour. Let us go at once.'

And, placing a white precious stone, pure

as snow, on his parchments to keep them in
their place, and arranging the books in order
with silken marks, the great scholar takes up
his midnight lamp and gracefully leads the
way.

The two men ascend the grand staircase
to the top by four flights ; they turn to the
left hand sharply at the top, and traversing a
long corridor on each side of which, with open
doors, some hundred Jewish youths are sleeping
the deep sleep of innocence, if faces are
indices of human nature, they pass on to the
floor of the tower, leaving the lamp of Akiba
in a deep recess in the wall of the corridor
made to receive a lamp or candle.

On the tower not a breath is heard nor
sound of any kind, save what they themselves
make, but the sight before them is splendid.
The white circle around the floor of the
tower stands out luminously, and within two
dark lines or girdles upon it the stars above
are reflected, the condensing apparatus moving,
as it seems, with them by means of a
weight which descends from the tower to the
earth.

And pray thee great scholar,' asks Servien,
VOL. II. M

as he surveys the curious sight, ' of what use is
this business when it is fulfilled ? '

Ah ! there, my lord, thou puzzles me. It
is to my mind more curious than useful, but
the ingenious contriver, being one of our own
people from Alexandria, came to me with the
design, bearing a letter of such strong recommendation
that I let him have his way, as a
pleasure to himself and an amusement to the
schools. For my own part, I have looked
upon it as more fitted for a follower of Aristotle
than of Moses, and tomorrow it is ordered
to be removed, lest it lead the youth of this
place from the worship of the Father of Light
and Creator of all things to that of Baal or
Apollo. I have seen its evil tendencies. This
very day that is just past two scholars, debating
about it, were so misled as to surmise
that the sun, the moon, and the stars were not
made for the special purposes of this great
earth, and quoted the lines of Virgil, one of
your own writers, who most profanely teaches
that the earth, a mere ball like the moon, floats
in the firmament, and, by its own motion round
the fixed sun, makes the seasons for itself.'

Virgil, I have heard, was a poet of the

time of Augustus Caesar, and we all know what
poets are when they get on the wing : they
live by writing what could never take place ;
if they didn't they wouldn't be poets,' returned
the matter-of-fact governor.

Then pausing for a moment he added :
'Nevertheless, I am glad this tower is
coming down ; it is bad to have anything that
creates innovation and unsettles the sensitive
minds of the impressionable young. I argue
that thou art right ; but this inventor, what of
him when his skill is no more required ? He
might be of service to Eome, and certainly
would vastly please For senatus. Let him come
to me tomorrow in the first hours, and we
will find him business which shall be mutually
advantageous. Hadrian himself would extend
his patronage to one so skilful.'

It is a thought worthy the Governor of
Joppa, and I will denver it to the young Archimedes,
who is so much honoured, should
he ever return. But he is gone. Thinking he
might be hurt at seeing his much-admired folly
destroyed, I let him sail back to Alexandria to
work at some new invention he has there,
which to thee, as a soldier, might be precious,

m2

but which to my scholars will not be so
desirable, seeing that it has to do with the
burning of fleets, the storming of great cities,
and other arts of war intended for the slaughter,
as opposed to the protection, of mankind.*

Is it,' asked Servien, rather too eagerly
to escape the watchful gaze of Akiba, who,
with his lamp again in his hand, is showing
his visitor back through the corridor — ' is it
something that is projected from a catapult
and that bursts into flame when it strikes the
object at which it is directed ? '

Something of that nature, I believe,' replied
Akiba in so frank and open a voice as
to entirely remove all kind of hasty suspicion
in which Servien might have indulged ; ' a kind
of improved Greek fire, cast, not by a catapult,
but by some spring or impulse derived from
itself when set on fire by the will of the owner
of the vile thing. Will my lord not honour
me by taking a few moments' rest in my room
of books ere he departs for the night ?'

The invitation comes quite naturally just
as they return to the door of Akiba's study,
and Servien, intensely interested in what he
has heard, is nothing loath to re-enter.

Akiba presents him with dried figs, bread
and pure water, of which, for courtesy's sake,
he partakes in moderate degree. His taste at
this moment is for knowledge rather than for
figs and water.

Raising the lamp to the walls, and leading
his visitor round the room, the great Eabbi
exhibits to him some of his choicest written
treasures of Hebrew learning. ' These, my lord,
are the dead that never die, the friends that
never quarrel, the foes that are never extinguished,
the slumbering fires from which men
thousands upon thousands of years hence will
light their torches, charged with new fuel, and
go forth with into the world, spreading knowledge
until all men shall know all things. Then
shall come the end foretold by our glorious
seer, " When knowledge shall cover the earth
as the waters cover the sea." '

There is something in the fire of expression,
the depth of feeling, the command of
thought, conveyed by the words thus uttered
that makes even the slow heart of the Eoman
governor beat high within him. He feels a
pulsation in his throat, and, convinced that,
if he stays longer with the master of menin

whose hands he now is, he shall betray
some weakness, he thanks his host most
warmly and, like a prudent general, beats a
hasty retreat back to his own quarters and the
beloved Lucilla.

No wonder,' he says to himself as he resumes
his musing, ' no wonder that this man
rules youths and women and impressionable
men in the way he does, when he has made
me, a soldier and governor, feel such a strange
and inward glow. A moment more and I had
given way to my emotions.'

And the more he feels the truth springing
from this contemplation the faster he walks,
until the physical effort catches up the mental
and, sustaining the rapid action of the heart by
its ruder influence, leaves the mind once more
free to pursue its own sober course.

The resumption of his ordinary mental
faculties is not altogether so satisfactory to
Servien as he could wish. He has gained some
useful facts, he has missed some important
facts, and he has lost in decision of purpose.
On the whole he is a loser. Most singular
truth of all, he, the cautious soldier, is impressed,
in spite of all he has seen, with a

sensation he cannot throw off, that he is at
war with the mysterious scholar he has just
left in so friendly a manner. The fall of that
fireball from the school of Akiba is the first
act of defiant rebellion. It means war and a
clean sweep of Eoman power if the whole of
the Jews be not driven into the sea once more.

One point is quite certain : the ball of
fire which fell at his feet was the work of the
youth whom Akiba had sent back to Alexandria.
Fortunatus must be sent off there to
inquire after that youth, and the schools of
Joppa must be watched with more care than
ever. Some one of those sleeping dogs has,
no doubt, got the secret of the Greek fire and
projectile force, and, unknown to the master,
is practising the use of the weapon. If one
student has only one such instrument in his
possession, each student may in a short time
have the same, and a few thousands of these
may suffice in an hour to burn out the whole
Eoman legion of Joppa.

With these thoughts Servien seeks his
repose. He is a strong man, because he is a
strong and sound sleeper, and having been up
late he sleeps late, so much later by far than

he has intended that, when he moves from
his chamber to enjoy the luxury of his bath,
he finds the lively Fortunatus bathed, breakfasted,
and equipped for the day.

In a few words Servien relates to his
astonished friend the events of the night.

We must see that tower again before it is
dismantled,' is the first observation of Fortunatus
as he ceases to hear the story. 'Let me
fetch thee thy stylus and parchment, that thou
mayest write to Akiba at once

The materials brought, the friends indite
and send the following letter : —

Servien, Governor of Joppa, to Akiba, the Chief
Rabbi of the Jews, Greeting.

Servien would wish to revisit the tower before it is
demolished, in order that his friend Fortunatus may
observe with him the procession of the heavenly bodies
by night,

Ave Caesar !

'The missile which fell at thy feet, my
Servien,' continued Fortunatus after a short
time given to reflection, ' was cast by a human
hand which did not calculate for the adverse
force of the wind. It was cast also by a tall
man, who could reach over the wall or battlement

of the tower. When we are on the
tower I will indicate to thee where and how
it was done.'

That thou wilt never do returns Servien
as he peruses the reply which the messenger
has quickly brought. ' Hear thou this : —

Akiba, subject of C^sar, to Servien, Governor of
JoppA, WITH Akiba's Homage.

The request of the noble Servien comes, unfortunately,
too late. The tower, invaded by five hundred friendly
enemies, was destroyed at sunrise, in compliance with the
command issued to the schools at sunset, yesterday ; and
all the delicate mechanical instruments have been committed
to the furnace for more useful after-application.

Akiba.

With a light laugh Fortunatus takes the
document from the hand of the Governor of
Joppa, reads it for himself, and lays it down
with the remark :

Latent war ! latent war ! my friend of
friends, and the first cast with the learned
Jew

CHAPTER IX.

IN LIGHT AND IN SHADOW.

Leviathan with its happy, now twice happy-pair,
carries its occupants across the western
sea to a country and temporary home which
to Simeon is a new world of beauty and
splendour, such as he has never dreamed of or
conceived possible.

From the first he is affected by his
environments, and the influence of these so
increases as the days and months roll on that
at last he becomes, in the strictest sense of
the word, a new creature. His tastes have
changed ; his ideas of men and events and
things have changed ; the past is to him a
something he has buried, and which does not
any longer belong to him. For an interval
the present is his only life.

In the midst of it aU one leading idea is.

nevertheless, fixed firmly in his mind and
heart, the belief in his own destiny. He is
born not for himself alone ; not to live and
work and play and marry and have children
and grow old and die as others do, but to
perform some pre-ordained task, fulfil some
great purpose which has been predicted of
him by wise and inspired men who have been
dead ages before he was born.

Simeon had received this idea of his own
importance, in the first instance, from those
by whom he was surrounded in the earliest
days of his conscious life.

He had imbibed it as the food of his soul,
on which his soul was nourished from its
earliest mouldings in the vesture of clay which
it occupied. The vesture has adapted itself in
its growth and development to the thought or
idea, and the abstract has become the concrete.
The idea, moreover, is fed by other forces.
There is in Simeon an unhesitating taint
and touch of pride, an unflinching courage,
and a stubbornness which nothing can appal,
nothing can subdue ; and, underlying all these,
is the genius of superstition respecting divine
purposes and mysteries which would have

fitted him for the service of the temple, had
he been called to it, independently of the arts
which embellish that service and give to it
human understanding.

In spite of all this, the still flexible and
impressionable nature of the man might yet,
perhaps, be diverted, did the philosopher
Leon and the adorable Erine lend their minds
and words and acts to the task of leading
him from his past life exclusively to theirs,
for with them he is already groat amongst
the great. He is accepted as the affianced of
the maiden of love of the island of Peace and
Beauty in which his happy lines are now cast,
and he finds, in the island, details of pleasure
and duty amply sufficient to satisfy a mind far
more capacious and able than his own.

Strangely, both Leon and Leon's daughter
are infected with the same idea as Simeon's
earlier friends. They, too, believe that he is
predestined to some great and mighty future.

Leon the scholar and interpreter has read
it on the breast of his protege ; Erine has
learned from her father the writing and its
meaning, and sharing with him in all his
thoughts, and behevmg iu all his knowledge,

has accepted the fate of her lover with his
heart, and in the boundlessness of her love has
given her own heart to his fate as well as to him.

Thus the ideal of the grand destiny is
fanned rather than subdued in the soul of
Simeon.

He has gone through great perils : he has
been saved by miraculous interpositions :
Leon and Erine have been instruments by and
through which he has been saved. Why ?

The answer comes to them all alike.

That he may perform the task for which
he is sent into the world.'

Ah, sweet child, divine Erine Leoline, well
mayst thou feel that thine heart is divided
between two loves ; love of him who is thine
heart's choice ; love of the mighty service
which it is thy lover's allotted duty to perform.

Doth thy cheek suddenly grow pale when
the blush of pure love has tinted it but a
moment before ; doth the blush retreat back
to thy heart ?

So must it be. But, cheer thee up, dear
maiden : should he be called even to leave
thee, the greater will be the joy when he
returns to thy beloved arms, his great task

accomplished, and a world saved from slavery
and sin by his puissant might and majesty.

These are cross thoughts ; the one bitter
as death, the other bright as everlasting glory.
Thoughts that will well up even though they
quiet down with the thankful recognition of
the present fact. ' As yet he is here, and is
mine in the golden chains of never-ending love.'

The place where these devoted lovers now
live is of itself a natural home of love and
beauty.

It is called Juverna, the island of eternal
youth. Once from the mysterious East there
came a fleet of strangers in boats or galleys
of oak and gold with sails white as the wings
of a dove. The strangers landed, and, struck
with the beauty of the country, planted themselves
as exiles who had alighted in the very
home they sought for. They found in possession
of the island a small, weak, and yet savage
race, whom they at first drove inland, but soon
won to themselves by the exercise of a combined
religion and art so pure that it attached
all things to itself.

The chief of this friendly enemy carried

the figure of a lion on his standard, and from
him descended a hne of successors of whom
our Leon the wise is the last and not the least.
They were not kings either by name or by
office, for from the first the government had
been after the manner of a republic, in which
the virtues reigned alone. But the family
that bore the hon as the type of its dignity
and strength in the old Silesia, from whence
originally came all the families, has retained its
pre-eminence from father to son through many
generations.

Now for the first time the continuity of
the male line is broken, to the overwhelming
grief of all the island ; but in time, as the
grief has healed, the presence of the beautiful
and motherless daughter of Leon begins to
raise the exceeding sorrow into equal joy.
The loveliness, the sweetness, the gentleness
of this child of the chief of this lovable people
are traits soon known everywhere, so that she,
Erine Leoline, becomes as an angel amongst
her race, her name sacred as the good spirit
of Juverna. The gentle Erine, the Maiden of
Love !

Of this beloved child stories and poems

are written, intended to pass down to the latest
day of time. Timseus of Elbana, in Juverna,
Timseus bard of bards, travelling, like blind
Homer, from town to town, is never tired of
singing her virtues, and never wearies his listeners
when she is the theme of his inspiration.

Sing us, good Tinges,' the children and
young folks say, ' sing us once more " The
Maiden of Love." '

And as they form a ring round him the
older folk fall in and listen and applaud as
eagerly as the young.

Then Timseus, full of his song, touches his
harp as if it were a spirit as he sings :

The Maiden of Love.
Erine Leoline, whenever thy shadow

Falls on the earth as the sun falls on thee,
Mountain and mountain stream, river and meadow,

Sing forth thy praises to nature and me.

Come,' cries the mountain, ' sweet Erine, and press,

Press with thy feet my rugged old side :
Ascend to my summit, that mountains may guess

When thou art my crown how great is my pride.'

Come,' cries the mountain stream, ' come to me, dearest,

Drink with thy lips the kisses I throw.
Kisses of spray and crystals the clearest.

Bright as the sunbeam and pure as the snow.'

Come,' cries the river, * oh come to my breast.

That I may convey thee on torrent and tide :
So the waters of life which I bear shall be blest

As the bridegroom is blest when he bears off his bride.'

Come,' cries the meadow in mantle of flowers,
Buttercups, daisies, and cowslips galore ;

Come, and the kine, in the shades of my bowers,

Shall sport with their young as they ne'er did before.'

Come,' cries the bard, * sweet light of the skies,

Light that concealed the mansions above !
Come for a moment, illumine these eyes,
That my soul may behold the maiden of love.

Then, tho* my harp-strings were flaccid and dumb i

Then, tho' my voice could no music retain :
Then, tho' my heart were silent and numb,
My life would return and with it my strain,'

Throughout all Juverna Erine Leoline the
beloved wanders, fearing no evil. For here
there is neither wealth nor poverty, to make
men sinful. Wealth makes no poverty ; poverty
makes no wealth.

To Simeon, nurtured, ever since he left the
shepherd's cot, in the sight of teeming wealth
and imperial power by the side of starving
want and abject feebleness, the government
and condition of this noble people of Juverna
are at once a lesson and a marvel,

VOL. II. K

It is not altogether new to him in theory,
for he has gathered it in prophecy ; it is
Hke the Zion which he has heard foretold, but
which as yet his eye has not seen until now.
Surely he, the child of destiny, has been
specially sent here to learn the wisdom and
the practice that shall make glorious his own
reign, when it comes, the reign of Zion, even
as Zion has been depicted and foretold.

To Erine he would sometimes speak of this
hope in terms which she at once idolises and
reproves.

True, my own, there is no one more fitted
to reign over all the world than thou art, but
why shouldst thou reign ? Why in thy great
and universal kingdom should not all be
kings and no man more than another, just as
here, and as we who have faith in the life
eternal believe it will be hereafter ? '

Because, dear Erine, the prophecy conveys
that a king shall rule in righteousness, and all
the world shall fear him.'

I like not " rule," I like not " fear," my
Simeon. They are harsh words, even out of
the mouth of one of thy prophets. I would
have all rule by love, not fear. If I feared

thee, I, even I, should not love thee. Why,
then, should the people whom thou art destined
to save ? '

We will divide the difference. Thou, Erine,
will be queen of my kingdom, and thou shalt
win by love while I will rule by fear, so shall
both the bold and the cowardly be equally
under governance, and the nobler part thy
subjects.'

Unfair, unjust, Simeon to give to me the
best and keep the worst thyself. No, we must
have no subjects, no mastering human power,
no fear, but all equal ; equal faith, equal fraternity,
equal fidelity, equal favour, equal freedom,
equal frankness, equal friendship ; the
seven great virtues all equally distributed and
practised.'

But, my dreaming angel, will that meet
the prophecy ? '

Entirely. The king of the prophecy is
not a human being like unto thee. Thou art
the servant of the king who shall reign. The
king himself is the 'rea," the "Yes," the " I
am," the 'existence" whose kingdom hath
no beginning and no end. Of him our sacred
scriptures also speak, and he it is who must

N 2

reign. Thou mayest guide, we may guide if
I may share the dangers as well as the glories
with thee, but He must reign.'

What Erine says is Simeon's will.'
■ 'Tis thus that Simeon is loved, and
reasoned with, and hoped for, and trusted ;
his strong unyielding nature, if an opposing
enemy lies in the way, bending with the suppleness
of a willow bough to the gentle breath
of his angelic guide and stay.

CHAPTER X.

ROMAN AND JEW.

The Court of Hadrian at Eome was never so
peculiar as it is now that the Emperor has
returned with Antinous the new courtier.

What is there about Antinous that Caesar
should so worship Antinous.^ The parents
of Antinous, were they not Bithynia of
poor means and position ? Was not Antinous
himself the freed slave of the younger Pliny,
when that great philosopher was Governor
of Bithynia, and made by him a present to
Trajan, who left him to Hadrian with the rest
of the imperial chattels ? Why, then, should
Antinous be the worshipped of Caesar ? ' So
all the creatures of the Court inquire.

For by this time the admiration of
Hadrian for the favoured knight of Eome has
become to all, except Tryphon, who knows the
whole secret, a mystery. Antinous is the very

genius of Hadrian, is consulted on every project,
every whim ; and is held up as being more
than mortal, as a possessor of divine powers,
as a healer and miracle-worker, nay, as little
less than a deity.

Sabina the Empress to some extent shares
in the admiration.

Perhaps she finds Hadrian more easily
pleased and, if such a term be allowable
towards so magnificent a spouse, more manageable
through the medium of Antinous than
if no such power were present. Perhaps the
Empress herself is won by the courtly manners
and gifts of the handsome knight, who is so
discreet, wise, and skilful.

Why does Tryphon, the physician, follow
in the same course of admiration ? He once had
first place with Caesar. Why does he resign it ? '

The courtiers ask this question also, and
one of them, bolder than the rest, puts it to
Tryphon direct, to receive the candid answer :

Because Antinous has diviner gifts, and
uses them wisely

Tinnius Eufus is in due course installed
Governor of Palestine, and with Boadicea takes

up his residence in Jerusalem, where he is soon
in a sea of trouble with his subjects. In his
good-natured fashion he tries to bring Jew
and Eoman into terms of good friendship. At
a vast expense he prepares a banquet of the
richest kind, to which he invites the leaders
of both peoples. The Jewish leaders come,
because they dare not do otherwise. They
take their places, and are well pleased to see
that they are put on an equality with their
rulers, but not one of the good things which
the hospitable Eufus has put before them will
they touch with their lips. They dare not eat
of food that is unclean.

The Eomans make up for the Jewish
abstinence. The Eomans eat, drink, and are
merry ; but when they are inflamed with wine
they lose their serenity and forget their good
manners. They talk to themselves apart, and
they do not altogether conceal the wish that
the task were permitted them of thrusting the
good viands down the throats of their obstinate
visitors with the points of their swords.

Eufus, as host, does all he can, according
to his nature, to conciliate both parties. He
calls for the musicians, who sing exquisitely

and play their instruments of music. He tries
the dancers. It is all in vain. The Eomans
exult ; the Jews are decorously subdued and
silent. It is his duty to declare the health
of Caesar. . The Eomans rave in applause and
raise their wine-cups above their heads, and
dash the wine down their throats and shout
Ave Caesar ! ' until they are hoarse. The Jews
rise solemnly and say something, which in the
confusion no Eoman can understand. It is
fortunate. In the expressive language of their
tongue, and in the language of their hearts,
they have cursed Caesar as sincerely as the
Eomans have hailed him.

The banquet is an acknowledged failure.

Not disheartened, Eufus, who is as patient
as he is honest and good-tempered, determines
to make a journey through all parts of his province.
He sends the suggestion to Hadrian,
and Hadrian returns his hearty approval. ' It
is what he, the Emperor, would do were he
the Governor of Palestine.'

Eufus makes his journey, accompanied by
the indomitable Boadicea.

Proceeding northwards on the eastern side
of the province he visits Scythopolis, the most

famous of military stations, and onwards
from there to C^esarea Philippi. Eeturning
southward by the Sea of Gahlee, he bends
south-westerly to Caesarea on the coast of the
Great Sea. Here he stays for a few days, inspecting
the coast, studying the fortifications
and reviewing the troops which lie in the encampments.


The journey for the greater part of it is
not a success. It fails, like the banquet. To
the name of Caesar the Jews pay their homage,
and no charge can be brought against
any Jew, be he of the old Mosaic school, an
Ebionite, an Essene, a Gnostic, or a Nazarene.
But between himself and the Jews, and between
the Eomans generally and the Jews, Eufus can
establish no bond of union whatsoever.

It surprises him most to find, above all
things unexpected, that Boadicea is by far the
greatest favourite of all his Court.

Boadicea has assumed the princess, and
she carries it well. Boadicea, like the Jews,
belongs to a race that is being held down by
Eoman power.

Boadicea in her heart hates the Eomans ;
and although there may not be a Jew in all

Palestine who knows a word of her or of her
race, the similar position of her race and theirs
creates a spontaneous sympathy in her which is
reciprocated so fully that even the unsuspecting
Eufus observes it, and, to tell the truth,
utilise it as the one and only good thing which
the virago ever did to make him contented
with his lot. Dressed in the costume of a lady
of Eome and wife of the Governor of a Roman
province, Boadicea is a woman of mark. Her
eyes are a deep blue, her hair an intense black,
a combination at once rare and fascinating.
Her features are noble, her expression is commanding,
and sometimes, as she tames down
by mixing with new and agreeable society, dignified.


In the Roman community her fame as a
virago has run before her, and caused her to
be looked upon with some alarm ; but to the
Jews all this is concealed, and from the very
circumstance that she is obviously different
to the Romans, she is the better appreciated.

To the Jews she is affable, and, as far as
lies in her nature, kind ; it must also be added
to her credit that, while she admires her husband
none the more nor despises him none

the less because he is the governor of a province,
she seizes every opportunity of conciliating
those under him, whoever they maybe,
to his authority.

If Simeon the brave Jew, who defied Caesar
in Britain ; if the Numidiann bear, who fought
the wolves; or, if the gallant Antinous had been
the lord and master of Boadicea, she were an
excellent wife ; so she feels and so she informs
the unhappy Eufus every time when they
hold any altercation, which is about once a
day at least.

From Caesarea on the Great Sea they travel
to Joppa, where Servien is still in power,
and where he and Lucilla play the host and
hostess to their superior in command with
becoming grace.

Fortunatus has long left Joppa, failing entirely
to open the eyes of Servien to any real
danger from the schools of Akiba. The incident
of the casting of the fireball is out of mind,
and, except that more students than ever press
into and pass out of the schools, things are
little changed.

Yet just at this moment a change ought to

be forcing itself on the notice even of trustful
and dull Servien. The Jewish youths are
bolder than they were of yore ; they are
proud of their superior knowledge, and, like
all acute minds in the medium stage between
knowledge and wisdom, they are proud of the
subtlety which passes for wisdom. Amongst
themselves they openly commend the cultivation
of every subtle art, whatever may be the
cost of self-respect and strict honour through
which it is obtained ; and, despite all his other
grand qualities, their master, the renowned
head of the schools, does not rebuke them for
what they do. He himself will be wise whenever
he can ; when he cannot be wise he also
will be subtle.

One of these students, returning from
Alexandria, has gathered there the calculation
of an eclipse of the sun on a date and at an
hour perfectly foretold. The fact is communicated
to Akiba, who holds it, for the
subtlest of purposes, to be used if ever required.


The pursuit of subtlety gives birth to
a pride which cannot long be concealed. It
is evidenced in every town and village of

Palestine into which the scholars are dispersed
as they leave Joppa.

Fortunatus writes to Servien, from Scythes
a letter, which arrives during the visit of
Eufus.

Fortunatus to Servien, Governor of Joppa.

The subtlety of Akiba is everywhere ; the fountain
of it in Joppa and under thine own nose. If thou smell
it not, thou art duller than Cerberus, who grew duller
as his heads were multiplied. There is no such man as
Akiba in all the world. I have apprised Caesar of him,
and even he will not believe, so I can forgive thee ; but
for all that I pray of thee beware.

Fortunatus.

'I should think Fortunatus might be right
if he had convinced C^sar,' is the remark of
Servien as he communicates the letter to Eufus.

An incident, which would be considered
really droll if it were not connected with a
subject of the most solemn import, springs out
of the warning which Servien has communicated
to the Governor of Palestine.

The Governor, in making it, has confided
to his virago the history of Akiba. The
virago has listened with the keenest admiration.
Simeon, the Numidiann, Antinous are splendid

men, but, now, to Akiba they are mere foils.
She assumes that she has fallen in love with the
great man, whom she has never known except
through the terms in which her husband and
others have spoken of him. She makes no
concealment of her sincere madness on this
point.

One day she asks : ' Has Akiba a wife ? '

Lucilla tells to Boadicea the story of
Akiba's first love, of the death of that first
love, and of his continuous and faithful widowhood.


The admiration of the virago intensifies
to rapture. There is no man living like
Akiba.

The enthusiasm of his wife puts a new idea
into the mind of Eufus, which idea, as his
most intimate friends know, is fanned by
another, warmer and even more persuasive one,
in the way of a little counter love passion of
his own which he has contracted for a Tyrian
damsel who has danced before him at Caesarea
on the Great Sea.

It is a very odd thing that a fat Eoman
governor, who has passed the meridian of
Hfe, should be stricken with such a counter-passion

; but so it is, and the Tyrian dancer
would make him dance the fool with her to
her heart's content if Boadicea were not in
the way.

Boadicea is in the way, and that in a
manner unmistakable. Up to this time she
has never had occasion to be jealous of any
other woman. What she would be if she
became jealous is too fearful to be contemplated.
The mere thought of it keeps Eufus
from the sleep he loves even more thana
woman.

At last, after profoundest study and many
dinners unusually sumptuous, Eufus makes up
his resolve.

He will offer his own Boadicea as a present
to Akiba and then at once return to Jerusalem.

Everything commends this plan to his
mind. Boadicea, still handsome and, when
she likes, winsome, admires Akiba to madness.
Akiba, after all, is but a man, and is certainly
as likely to be entranced by Boadicea as he,
Eufus, was when he first knew her. It will
show great friendship on his, Eufus's, part to
the illustrious Jew ; great self-sacrifice ; and,
best of all — Eufas chuckles over this until his

fat sides ache to each other — it will take a thorn
out of those sides and put one into the sides
of Akiba that will torment his cleverest contemplations
and spoil the most skilful plans
which his shrewd genius ever laid out.

To win Akiba to his scheme Eufus treats
him with a respect like that of a child to a
father. He visits the scholar daily at the
schools and comes, like every one else, under
the spell of the fascinator.

One day in sly jest Akiba tells him :
Smoke did not rise from the tomb of thy
father.'

It is a Jewish proverb, meaning that the
father of Eufus had not left behind him in his
representative so much as a column of smoke.

It had happened that the pyre on which
the father of Eufus was consumed, having been
made of dry and light material, blazed in a
sharp wind so briskly that it actually gave
forth no smoke.

Therefore, on hearing the observation of
Akiba, Eufus, accepting the statement in its
literal sense, as a declaration conveying a fact
which Akiba could not have heard by any
ordinary channel of human communication,

inquires, ' By what art of divination didst thou,
most extraordinary man, know a fact known
only to myself?'

It is the genius of my race to know all
things under the sun,' responds Akiba.

With this subtle answer Eufus is still
more mysteriously confounded, while Boadicea,
who is present, makes no concealment of the
joy she feels at her husband's stupidity and
Akiba's wisdom.

As if to second her husband's clever
design, Boadicea sets forth all her allurements
to win the admiration of Akiba, so that
Pappus, his only son and first disciple, puts himself
forward as a scapegoat to save his father
from danger.

The interference of Pappus is kinder than
successful. It does not succeed, and Boadicea,
checked in no way by Eufus, becomes so
charmed by the attempt to win Akiba to herself,
that she willingly consents to be given
over to him altogether.

Akiba hears the proposition ; spits on the
floor, laughs, and weeps. Spits, because the
woman, like a drop of impure water, deserves
to be expelled from him ; laughs, because

VOL. II.

she wishes to be transformed into a Jewess ;
weeps, because a person so attractive must
fade ; for, in spite of himself, he is strangely
affected by her devotion to him, and by her
beauty.

So Boadicea remains by the side of Eufus,
the Tyrian damsel has to go back to Tyre, and
Akiba holds the mastery of the field, having
won from Eufus permission to open one of his
schools in the Holy City of Jerusalem, a second
at Either, a few miles south of Jerusalem, and
a third at another Either which lies on the
north of the Sea of Galilee, not far from the
Great Sea, and within easy reach of Phoenicia.

CHAPTEE XI.

AN Ambassador From C^SAR.

The permission granted Akiba to open a school
in the three centres named in the last chapter
carries that wonderful scholar to the Holy
City in order to superintend the work he has
in hand.

The selection of the sites of these new
schools is admirably chosen for strategical
purposes. Jerusalem is an historical centre
of the utmost value. Either, to the south of
Jerusalem, sometimes called Either the ' house
of spies,' is a place where Jewish sentinels
can note and report, along the line of a great
highway to the Holy City, who are and who are
not favourable to the Eoman rule. The other
Either, to the north, north of the Sea of Galilee,
Either, ' the house of liberty,' is a place little
known in history, and little thought of by the
Eoman authorities.



The Sanhedrin continues to sit at Joppa,
|3ut Jerusalem now becomes the centre of
activity amongst the young Jews who have
passed through the hands of their master.

To test the loyalty of Jerusalem, Hadrian,
probably at the suggestion of Fortunatus,
sends to it a colony of Greeks and Eomans,
and with the colony a statue of Jupiter to be
erected on the site of the once famous Jewish
temple. It is a hazardous experiment, and
creates the extremes t anger amongst all the
Jewish community, of whatever sect it maybe
composed. So angry and fierce are the
passions raised that Eufus is in hourly fear of
rebellion ; and Akiba, who is most anxious not
yet to proceed to any extremity, is obliged
to labour, by night and by day, in order to
quell what would be a serious but abortive
effort ending in the most awful effusion of
blood and infliction of torture on the Jewish
people.

In the difficulty another bright idea occurs
to Eufus. He and Akiba are friends, but
Akiba must not carry his friendship for him
too far, lest it appear that the two are in
collusion. The idea is that he, Eufus, should

have a new adviser, and he recalls as the
person most eligible the powerful and popular
Antinous.

Anxious is ever a friend of the Jewish
people ; Antinous is full of resource, and will
be sure to see a way by which all the contentions
between Eoman and Jew can be reconciled.


A petition is therefore forwarded to the
Emperor, praying him to come personally if
possible, but if that be impossible, to let the
faithful Antinous be despatched as his ambassador.


The reply to this petition is brought from
Eome, by Caesarea, to Jerusalem by Antinous
in person. The Emperor wills that the ambassador
shall be received with the honour
due to Caesar, and for once Eomans and Jews
join in what is a public festival. An escort
of Eoman soldiers, accompanied by Eufus,
meets Antinous two leagues from the Holy
City, and with great ceremony leads the
ambassador onwards to the headquarters
of the embassy, situated on a neutral spot
apart alike from the Eoman garrison and the
Jewish quarters. As Jerusalem is approached

the enthusiasm is intensified ; arches made
of palm-boughs are erected, and women with
cymbals and men with trumpets and stringed
instruments of music welcome the representative
of Caesar.

The Roman for the moment forgets that
he is a Eoman, the Jew that he is a Jew.

Before the pavilion which is erected for the
temporary home of the ambassador, the Governor
of Palestine with his suite, and the chief of
the Sanhedrin with the selected of his colleagues
and scholars, meet on terms of equality and
friendship. They do not, it is true, sit together
or eat together, but the two leading authorities
exchange complimentary visits and discuss
what shall be the order of proceedings
when the eagerly expected ambassador appears
before them.

The arrival is a scene of great excitement.
As the cortege enters, Eufus with Boadicea and
Servien, who, with Lucilla, has come from
Joppa to take part in the proceedings, advance
to Antinous and pay their homage. Akiba
and his court follow, and bending very low, so
that the fore part of their long libertines
trails on the ground, older a welcome as hearty

as it is profound. They pray in the Latin
tongue, audibly, that the God of their Fathers
may be with their illustrious visitor in all
goings out and comings in.

Antinous bows acknowledgment ; before
dismounting rides between the two groups
who have given such warm welcome to the
elect of Caesar ; and then in a clear, resonant,
and unfaltering voice speaks.

THE SPEECH OF ANTINOUS.

Friends of Jerusalem, Jews and Eomans
alike, friends I trust of my august master
Caesar, my mission is to bring to you peace.
The last words from Caesar's lips to me were :
Peace, happiness, amity amongst all my people
in the ancient city of the Jews and in all the
borders of Palestine."

'Jews! Eomans! Greeks! friends all of
whatsoever rank or sect you are, I greet
you in the name of Caesar. To the Jews I
am the bearer from my master of a special
message. Some months since, in order to try
your loyalty to Rome, he sent a statue of the
great god of the Eomans, to be erected on the
site of your most sacred place. He bids me

now, as the first act of his confidence and
grace, remove that statue and send it to a
Eoman temple.'

The loud cries of 'Ave Caesar I ' from the
Jewish voices spent, Antinous continues : —

But, Jews, in this act of grace remember,
I pray you, the confidence and beneficence of
Hadrian, and let his practice be your example.
The ancient gods of Eome are as dear to him
as your God is to you. Be you therefore
tolerant to those who differ from you about
the gods as he is tolerant to you. It is his
will that all men in Jerusalem, in Palestine, in
every part where Eome rules, shall be free
to worship as they may wish, to live as they
may desire, to enjoy trade and commerce, to
follow their own customs and usages, and in
all things, subject to the laws of Eome, which
Eomans obey, be free and happy.

'Ave C^sar!'

If the latter part of this address be less
applauded by the Jews than the first it meets
with no obvious disfavour from them, while
by Greeks, Eomans, Egyptians, and others

outside the Jewish pale it is accepted with
loudest acclamations.

The speech delivered, Eufus and Akiba
attend upon the handsome ambassador. Akiba
gives the ambassador his hand with serene
and elevated dignity amounting to admiration
as he sees the youthfulness of the face and the
pure features of one of his own people. His
bright eyes pierce those of the stranger, and
the unseen pressure of the hand of the
stranger sends the blood through his heart
until he is well-nigh confused. There is
help for Israel in that pressure which he has
never felt before.

In the choicest Hebrew he responds to the
pressure with the words :

Pray for the peace of Jerusalem :
They shall prosper that love thee.*

And his heart still more strongly throbs
as his ear catches the response in the same
tongue :

^ For my brethren and companions' sake I will say,
Peace be within thee.
Because of the house of the Lord our God
I will seek thy good.'

Then to a Greek, who presents a golden
chaplet, the ambassador offers, in the Ionic
dialect, grateful thanks for so graceful a gift.

Finally, Eufiis, who is holding the stirrup,
and Servien, who is placing the carpet on
which the rider is to alight, are greeted with
most cordial recognition, spoken in bold and
manly Latin, followed by the usual kiss of
friendship, which so pleases Eufus that, having
taken it on one of his fat and ruddy cheeks,
he offers the other also, as if he particularly
enjoyed this particular part of the ceremony.
Boadicea is jealous. She has never before
known Eufus kissed twice at the same interview
by any person. One of the kisses
certainly belonged to her.

It is a day of great rejoicing in the city of
Jerusalem. Jupiter has been removed from
the site of the holy place and set up in the
Eoman temple, where he seems to be far more
at home. The priests of the temple declare
that, on being enshrined over their altar, the
stern features of the god relaxed and assumed
a beneficent aspect. It is certain that the
features are modified when the people are
readmitted to sacrifice after all the alterations

connected with the enshrinement are complete.
The Jupiter, so severe on the site of
the old Jewish temple, has become a benign
Jupiter in his new place and amongst his own
worshippers. His hard, short, straight, dumb
lips have assumed a gentle downward curve
amounting almost to a smile.

Jupiter is content, and is the pride of his
priests ; the miracle which has transformed
him is a constant theme of gratification to them,
in which Eufus joins with all his jovial heart.
• Some are good enough to say that the
aspect of Jupiter is somewhat toned to that of
Eufus himself ; but these, perhaps, are sycophants.


Boadicea is sure they are, though they
may even be priests of Jupiter. Eufus is not
so sure, for he knows the jealous nature of his
critic. Had the statue been that of Juno,
and had it become changed into a likeness of
Boadicea, there would, he says, ' have been no
sycophants then.' This is told to Servien, who,
having observed, in his honest blundering
way, that ' no change would have been necessary,
seeing how naturally Boadicea is like
to the statue of Juno,' gets for reply that

his entrance on the service of that goddess
would be a good exchange of service for
Eome ; a rude joke, which he would fain repel
if he dared offend the Governor of Palestine.

Is the great assembly which so warmly
greets Antinous universally deceived ?

Does no one recognise, behind the knight
of Eome and favourite of Hadrian, Huldah
the child of C^esarea, the divine maiden of
the camp of Silurian Britain ?

On this point Eufus is somewhat haunted
with a kind of mysterious and ghostly admonition,
the nature of which he does not fully
understand. He imagines over and over again
that there is something peculiar, but what
it is is the puzzle. K he were industrious
enough he might work it out, but he is not
industrious, and therefore takes refuge in the
excuse to himself that, whatever it is, as it is
not his business it had better be left without
interference or trouble on his part.

Akiba is not wanting in industry, and is also
strangely impressed, but for the moment is led
away by a side thought. He feels quite sure
that he has seen the face before, but connects
the memory with one of his early pupils

whom he has not met for many years. More
than once the suspicion crosses him that it is
the long-lost Simeon, the Son of a Star himself,
and do what he may he cannot help connecting
the noble stranger with his divine protege.
But as he studies the face the idea recedes
from him. One shadow of a guess as to the
true sex of the ambassador and all would be
clear to him as the sun at noon, but the well-practised
impersonation of Antinous is much
too good to give him this chance of enlightening
his mental darkness.

For all the rest, as they have no reason for
being deceived, they doubt not for a moment
that Antinous is Antinous.

All, all, except one man, who does not
for a moment doubt, who knows as none but he
can know the whole truth, who is torn with
perfect agony of joy at the discovery he has
made, and who is holding communion with
his own mind how and when he shall turn his
discovery to account.

Amongst those who stood close to Akiba
when he gave his hand to the ambassador was
this very man, a man of more than middle
age, about whom there seemed to be some secret

mystery amongst the Jews. He walked with
a stoop as if he could not put one foot one
foot's space before the other ; the sleeves of
his gaberdine came down over his hands, and
his arms seemed stiffly stretched out ; his face
was unduly lengthened and marked by signs
of an anguish which was absolutely terrible to
look upon.

The Eomans cast on him the contempt of
pity, as a deformity it were well to avoid.
The Jews, on the other hand, looked upon
him with respect that was kindled into awe ;
yet no one knew his history.

Obviously he was under the protection of
Akiba ; some said he was an old servant of
Akiba, others that he was a poor relation of
that great man. Anyway, he was most rigorously
guarded and was sufficiently secure.
Once a student of the schools had incited some
other students to pull at the gaberdine or
robe of this singular being in order to get a
look at his hands. The screams of the poor
creature roused the whole school, and so alarmed
the offenders that they quickly gave up their
rude attempt.

Brought before Akiba they were all signally

punished, although the insulted man
himself pleaded for them. Discipline had
been broken and punishment must follow. All
the students concerned in the matter were fora
time reduced in rank. The ringleader was
expelled for two years.

'Akiba/ it is said, Moves the poor soul.
What more need any man want who claims to
be a Jew of Jerusalem '

This man, so soon as Antinous came fairly
within his sight, seemed to be transformed. Suddenly,
and for the first time in the knowledge
of any who knew him, he stood firmly erect.

When the ambassador began to deliver
his address the manner of the man underwent
a new change ; he turned his ear towards the
speaker and listened as one Hastens who is tuning
the strings of a harp, moving his head to
the cadences of the speaker, and relaxing his
expression of countenance until the sad and
awful anguish softened into the very radiance
of delight. So great was the transformation
that some of the Jews thought the man must
be in the spirit, and that he would burst forth
into prophecy.

When the ambassador closed the address

he had to deliver, the entranced listener, holding
his breath, stood motionless, waiting for
the next event.

That event was the observation in Hebrew
of Antinous to Akiba, and it completed the
ecstasy.

As if a new life had been given to the lame
man, as if a new body of the noblest form had
been given to him, as if a new soul had filled him
with the sublimest purpose, he literally reared
his broken frame out of the dust and weight
that had hitherto oppressed it, and with an exclamation
of surprise and adoration to heaven
left the group amongst which he was standing
and set foot towards the synagogue with the
dignity of a high-priest.

Antinous, busied in dismounting and in
receiving the introductions of those around,
had missed this spectacle, as indeed had most
who were there. Intent to cluster near and
get a good look at the handsome representative
of Caesar, the majority were too much
occupied to note the departure of one person,
however much his manner might be changed,
while they were standing as an attentive audience
absorbed with the one object before
them.

Later on, when they met together to discuss
the things which they had seen, it was natural
enough for some to remark on the curious behaviour
of the friend of Akiba, but now it was
not in their thoughts.

The man himself is seen no more that
day. He remains alone in the house of his
Lord, blessing his name and thanking him for
all his mercies.

As night steals on he waits still, with perfect
satisfaction that some one else will come.
He eats not, drinks not, sleeps not, but waits.

The night passes, the morning breaks ; the
silence is deathly, and still before the altar he
stands, inspired by faith as to what must be.

A footstep ! a footstep ! at the sunrise ! A
light footstep at the door of the sacred place.

The synagogue is entered and the footstep
approaches the altar in the manner he
had anticipated. A woman in the vestments
of a man is going, by habit, to the women's
place in the synagogue. The discovery is all
but complete.

One word from him and it is completed.

Huldah ! '

'Elkanah! my Father!'

VOL. II. p

There are scenes of human passion of unspeakable
sorrow, of unspeakable joy, which
admit of no description by either pen or pencil,
and this scene, during the first stages of it, is
of that nature.

I knew thou wouldst come to Synagogue
when the heathen would set thee free,' is the
first utter able sentence that can be recorded.

I knew thou wouldst find the house of
the Holy One of Israel.'

But how canst thou love me, Father, in
this disguise ? '

Love thee, Huldah ? I worship thee I
Keep it, wear it, play thy part in it. It is the
Lord's doing, and marvellous in our eyes.
Like Joseph in the court of Pharaoh, thou
shalt save thy people.'

Hand in hand they sit in the sanctuary
and tell their histories, from the moment when
they were parted in Caesarea, where Huldah
and the elected Simeon were concealed and
Elkanah was dragged forth to be crucified.


Most strange, my child, most strange I
From that moment until I heard thee yesterday
I have always been crucified. Myhmbs have

never lost the mortal agony ; now they are once
more free.

They left me for dead, my child, they left
me for dead, but the death-wine which the
Nazarene woman, who was the sister of the
Eoman centurion, Fidehs, raised to my lips
made death a semblance only. In the night
the wind blew a hurricane, and with the cross
dashed me to the earth. The fall roused me
back to life, and out of the cross drove the
nail that pierced my right hand. From that
hand I wrenched with my teeth the nail, and,
one hand free, I soon set myself free altogether.
At the foot of the cross I found food and water
left by that holy woman. I ate, I was refreshed,
but knew not where to go, for Eoman soldiers
lay in wait in every quarter. Then she appeared,
she, that holy Nazarene — Akiba likes
me not to call her holy, but I will — and led me
to a safe place in a mountain, and fed me there
till I could travel to Phoenicia, where, concealing
my injuries, I remained as a sorcerer
or wise man. Sometimes I wandered in search
of thee, but uselessly, for I knew not whether
thou wert alive. At length, as the rebellion
in Caesarea became forgotten and I became a

p 2

thing of the past, I ventured to sail from Tyre
to Joppa in a vessel carrying fruit, and so revealed
myself to the renowned Akiba, under
whose protection I have lived as a reader of our
sacred scriptures to the youths of the academy.

'Twas a happy choice of Akiba to give
me that duty : it accounted for my bended
back; it permitted me to hide my hands in
the ample folds of my robe ; and it gave me
employment that was dearest to my heart.

Maimed of body, my soul has gone forth in
the words I have had to speak, and with them
has been borne through every part of our
oppressed land. Sometimes I have felt that
both the Isaiah have lived again through me,
and that the second, glorious prophet of that
name, bearing from me his blessed opening
words, " Comfort ye comfort ye, my people'' has
echoed them back with his own inspired voice.

But the sun is rising, my Huldah, my
darling, my own. Thou must pray and begone,
and I for the allotted time must reassume
my misery and my ministry.

Yet tell me, ere we part, knowest thou
aught of Simeon, the coming saviour of Israel ? '

In words as brief as they were clear

Elkanah hears the news of Simeon to the
latest that is known to Huldah.

It is known where he can be found, which
is enough, for the moment, for Elkanah to
know.

At the usual hour for reading the sacred
scriptures to the new school at Jerusalem
Elkanah is at his post. More earnestly than
ever he has been heard before, he declaims
from his favourite prophet : —

I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come
From the rising of the sun shall he call upon my name :
And he shall come upon princes as upon mortar,
And as the potter breadth clay.

The Lord shall go forth as a mighty man,
He shall stir up jealousy like a man of war :
He shall cry, yea, roar ;
He shall prevail against his enemies.

I have long holden my peace ;
I have been still and refrained myself;
Now will I cry like a travailing woman ;
I will destroy and devour at once.

Zion, that brings good tidings, get thee up into the

high mountain ;
Jerusalem, that brings good tidings,
Lift up thy voice with strength ;
Lift it up, be not afraid !
Say unto the cities of Judah,
Behold your God 1 '

The students are taken as if by storm.
The words, by some unseen influence, rise and
rise again in their breasts. In their unquenchable
zeal they fight the air with their breaths,
and are ready to die, with their hearts, for
Judah and Jerusalem.

See! see! also in the distance, watching
the effect, with courage as high and heart as
true as the youngest amongst them, Akiba
stands, knowing now much better than they
how near is the predicted hour.

And Antinous ? Well, Antinous breakfasts
with Rufus and Servien, arranges the plans of
the day, is charmed by Lucilla, and is very
much waited on by Boadicea.

CHAPTEE XII.

THE Missions TO ITS CLOSE.

To Tinnius Eufus and to Servien the mission
of Antinous to Palestine is, for the time, successful
beyond all expectation. With an effect
which is truly astonishing the news of the
visit of Antinous passes from city to city, from
camp to camp, and from village to village,
causing little demonstration or excitement and
producing the most tranquillising influence.
The rule of Eufus becomes now a rule of peace
and comfort, to him altogether unexampled.
The change is all his luxurious soul has craved
for. He eats the best suppers, drinks the
best wines, listens to the best jokes, sleeps the
best sleeps, and, in jovial hours, sings songs
which so obviously please himself that others
are pleased with his pleasure rather than with
his performance.

To the Jews Eufus becomes more friendly
than Servien likes. Playing from Jerusalem

the part of Herod the Great, he undertakes to
build them a new temple so soon as C^sarwill
give his assent to that grand enterprise. He
promises that Caesar himself shall visit Palestine
with the rest of his Syrian provinces,
and that on his visit the illustrious Akiba shall
lay the foundation-stone of the new temple,
with every kind of ancient ceremonial belonging
to the history of the chosen people.

The chosen people listen to these good
tidings with hearts of joy, and they know
their source.

The words spoken by the lips of Eufus
are from the heart of Antinous.'

Antinous, hearing this expression, corrects
it by requesting to add to it ' and from the
mind of Caesar.'

Akiba improves the saying by a short
proverb which goes round the land into every
synagogue and into every Jewish home : —
• fear thinks, Antinous feels, Eufus speaks.'

From Jerusalem Antinous proceeds to
Joppa.

Tn company with Servien, Antinous visits
the Koman forts and earthworks of Joppa, the

ships of war that lie in the harbour, and the
roads that lead eastward to Jerusalem, northward
to Caesarea, and southward to the ancient
Skelton and Gaza. To each of these points
of observation some critical remark is directed.
That fort should be strengthened with walls or
ditches or moats ; this post should have in ita
larger or a smaller number of men ; there
a guard ship should lie at anchor ; here a
harbour should be constructed, to save vessels
from being lost on the wild and raking coast.
At another point a roadway should be laid
out, so as to secure a good landing between
the open sea and the solid shore.

Servitudes not quite relish the interference
between the land and the sea. He knows how
useful that unpromising coast-Hne has been informer
times against invading hosts, and how
the Jews, in high rebellion against Eome when
Cestius was governor, were driven into the sea
by their thousands, to perish by the war of
the waves and the wrath of the ocean, without
the loss of one Eoman sword, javelin, or man.
But Servien is gently overborne in argument.
That which is suggested is from the ambassador
of Caesar, and Lucilla approves, which is

an important additional fact. So the order
goes forth for all that is suggested to be done
forthwith.

Akiba asks that in such benign work his
students of the mechanical schools may take
part. The permission is granted, and Jew
scholar and Eoman soldier work for the first
time shoulder to shoulder with an earnestness
which passes into a friendly contest as to who
shall do most. The Jewish scholars bring all
kind of theoretical skill to Servien for his
practised eye to see and mind to study. They
make an abacus, or sand table, at his feet,
and one of them draws out with his stylus the
changes that he may suggest.

They comply, as it seems to him, with everything
he wishes, and they accomplish in the
end everything which they themselves have
devised and desired. Every touch of artistic
work, which adds relief or perfection of form
to the forts and walls, they design, but the
credit of it, in a natural and unassuming
manner, goes to Servien.

Antinous leaves Joppa when the work
begins, travels through Northern Palestine to
Either, the ' house of liberty,' makes a complete

round of the province, re-enters Jerusalem by
Southern Either, the ' house of spies,' and
then, accompanied by Eufus, Boadicea, and
Akiba, pays a final visit to Joppa on the way
back to Eome.

The Governor of Palestine and his friend
the ambassador are equally delighted with the
changes which have been made in Joppa by
the skill of the youths of the schools, under the
direction of Servien. There is Servien's Arch,
Servien's Tower, and the fort of Servien ; and
all Joppa would, indeed, have been Servien's,
apparently, if that worthy and modest soldier
had not insisted on attaching the names of
Hadrian, Eufus, Antinous, and Akiba to his
granitic labours. The grand roadway from
the sea, the noblest piece of work of all, is
therefore named the ' Road of Hadrian,' while
the splendid fire tower, that has sprung upas
by magic, is the ' Pharos of Eufus,' a name
which delights to the last degree the humour
of that fiery-headed personage. The harbour
would be the harbour of Antinous, but
Antinous will have it changed to the harbour
of Sabina, after the Empress ; the guard-slip

at anchor is the Boadicea, ' because of its
restless grace,' while the landing-place of all
the vessels is Liicilla's Porch, because of its
serene and friendly attractions.

Akiba, with trained humility, has declined
every honour of the kind ; it is opposed to
the commandments of his great lawgiver,
which forbid that a Jew should make to himself
' any graven image or the likeness of anything
that is in the heaven above or in the
earth beneath, or in the waters under the
earth.'

Before leaving Palestine Antinous returns,
with Eufus and his court, to Jerusalem, in
order to hold a council. Eufus, Antinous, and
Akiba meet and discuss what shall be done
in order to maintain the good understanding
which now prevails between the rulers and
the ruled in every part of Palestine.

The consultation leads to an edict which,
subject to the approval of Hadrian, shall hold
good towards all the people under the governance
of Eufus, by the supreme will of the
Emperor. The edict is extremely voluminous,
for Eufus will insist on giving it the character
of a State document of such historical

importance that it shall survive his beneficent
rule and make him the admired of Jews as
well asEomans for all time.

To please the Jews, moreover, without
directly conveying the intention to them,
he has the edict drawn out in ten distinct
parts or sections, like a new decalogue,
a design which in some Judaical tempers
might have cost him his life as a blasphemy,
but which at the present moment is accepted
with a good nature amounting to nothing
worse than a mock serenity, because, says
Akiba, ' ten is a wise and useful number.

Man works with ten fingers and walks on
ten toes.

He has ten conspicuous parts of his body :
two eyes two ears, two hips, two hands, two feet.

He performs ten great functions : he eats,
drinks, breathes, walks, talks, plays, works-sleeps,
wakes, and prays.

He has ten great blessings : sun, moon,
stars, air, water, food, raiment, fire, house, and
land.

He has ten choice friends : father, mother,
teacher, brother, sister, wife, son, daughter,
servant, and neighbour.

He lias ten noble virtues : love, truth,
courage, industry, justice, faith, generosity,
honour, knowledge, and wisdom.

He has the ten Holy Commandments.

These are the seven great tens, the last
the greatest ; and whosoever holds them allis
blessed. Therefore is ten a wise and useful
number, and if the edict be sound, it is welland
thoughtfully divided.'

The edict, thus divided, ran as follows : —

AN EDICT SUGGESTED TO C^SAR BY
Tennis RUFUS, GOVERNOR OF PALESTINE.

That all peoples, races, and tongues in Palestine,
subject always to the common laws of the Empire, shall
have perfect and equal freedom with Roman citizens.

II.

That all sects of religion shall enjoy equal rights to
worship in their own fashion and according to their own
ceremonies, provided that no man shall interfere with
another, nor attempt to draw others into his own pale.

III.

That Jews resident in Palestine shall, on payment of
a tax to be named by Caesar, be exempt from the necessity
of offering divine sacrifice to Caesar by the burning of
incense or other form of worship.

IV.

That the site of the Holy Temple at Jerusalem shall
be enclosed, and shall be left as a place sacred to the
Jewish people waiting its restoration for the services of
their faith.

V.

That the Grand Sanhedrin, now holding its seat at
Joppa, shall be permitted to return to Jerusalem whenever
it shall desire to effect that change.

VI.

That the Jews shall have equal rights with the
Romans to petition the Emperor on all questions in
which they feel they are unjustly treated,

VII,

That in matters coming strictly under Jewish ordinance,
every Jew who voluntarily lives in obedience to
such ordinance shall be tried by his own people on every
charge that does not imply sedition or treason against
Rome as the acknowledged ruling authority.

VIII.

That Jews belonging to other sects, Nazarenes,
Ebionites, Essences, Gnostic, shall in like manner be
governed by the laws of their own orders, if they prefer
to be judged by them rather than by the Roman courts.

IX.

That the tribute to Caesar shall be levied equally on
all his loyal subjects, whatever may be their race —
Romans, Jews, Greeks, Syrians, Egyptians, or others.

X.

That under the direction of the Grand Sanhedrin
schools for the Jewish youths may be established in any
part of Palestine, as at Joppa, subject to the order that
no weapons of war, no military exercises, and nothing of
any kind that shall lead to armed revolt, be practised in
the schools.

The promulgation of the news that these
proposals are about to be submitted to the
Emperor by his chosen ambassador, and with
the assent of the Eoman governor and of Ser-view,
is a cause of universal satisfaction in the
whole of the subdued province.

Eufus becomes the most popular of governors,
and Antinous is greeted as a deliverer
of the people.

The time has now arrived when Antinous
must return to Eome ; and in Jerusalem, the
first scene of departure, there is universal
sorrow. Whatever may have been the former
differences between the Eomans and the Jews,
these are forgotten ; the regret that the beloved
Antinous must go away can never be
forgotten.

Out of Jerusalem the ruddy Eufus rides
in his chariot with a splendid escort of horsemen,

and with the ambassador by his side, for
three furlongs on the road to Joppa. They are
followed by an immense multitude, and when
they part a multitude still continues to follow,
some even to Joppa itself.

Out of Joppa the people march with Ser-view
at their head, to meet the ambassador
with Akiba and the rest coming from Jerusalem.
To the surprise of all, Elkanah, the
reader of the synagogue, is seen in bright
attire, mounted on a camel ; he is as one
possessed of a new life, as one inspired, now
weeping, now rejoicing, and then offering
up prayers and supplications for mercies to
come.

See,' they say, ' even the reader of Akiba,
who was never known to show any emotion,
weeps at the departure of Antinous more
than the rest, and in this new affliction forgets
his affliction of old.'

For three days Antinous rests in the house
of Servien, and quits it with a grief that
cannot be concealed. But the galley lies
waiting, the winds are propitious, and the ambassador
must indeed depart back to Caesar.
Servien, Lucilla, Akiba and all the notabihties,

VOL. II. Q

with crowds of scholars and people, go to the
place of embarkation.

A long time is taken up in farewells,
and two notable events are specially observed.


Eli, the trusted and beloved attendant and
companion of the ambassador. Eh, called by
common consent the second Anak, is left behind
in the care of Akiba, and the last person
who receives the fervent farewell and closest
embrace is the once-deformed reader, who
no longer walks foot by foot, with arms outstretched
and back bent, but who stands forthwith
a noble carriage and all but rivals Akiba indignity
as, with saddened faces, the two follow,
side by side, to the margin of the sea. A blast
of trumpets gives the signal that Antinous is
planted on the sea ; another blast tells that
the imperial galley with the golden prow is
safely reached.

The sails of the galley are set to the wind,
the standard of Eome is let loose and floats
proudly ; the galley slaves bring the oars in
line ; a shout from the shore ; a return shout
from the galley ; a dash of every oar, as if it
were a single oar, into the waves ; a steady

pull far, far into the distance, and the parting
is over.

Antinous stands alone in the stern of the
vessel, whilst Akiba and the transformed
Elkanah stand like statues on the shore in
the foreground of the host that watches the
galley melt away until it and its precious
freight remain a mere memory of the past.

a9

CHAPTER Xm. '

ANTINOUS NO More.

The ambassador to Palestine has performed
the embarrassing mission directed by the
Emperor in a manner as faithfully as successfully.
To play the part of the knight Antinous
and of Huldah the daughter of Elkanah
has been an effort which few who ever lived
could have played, and which none who ever
lived could have played with more consummate
judgment, skill, and loyalty. As a political
task it is known to the master of all the
legions of Eome and approved of by him. It
has therefore in it, in so far as the chief actor
is concerned, no sin and no shame. Whatever
may happen, the responsibility must be
accepted by Caesar.

Antinous — for as yet it is best to use the
assumed name — has all through been moved

by two contending forces : one of loyalty to the
chosen people, the other of loyalty to Caesar.

As a matter of natural necessity, these
two parts could not fairly be balanced ; as a
matter of natural necessity, home and kindred
and country held the first place, for they were
first implanted in the heart and had deepest
root there. But Caesar, as Hadrian, could not
at the same time be forgotten or ill-treated.
Caesar, who has so graciously made Antinous
Antinous, must be obeyed and honoured.

By pressure between these contending
influences the mind of the ambassador is
brought to a new and critical position.

Palestine and Hadrian may and must be
equally loved and saved ; Eome, as a force
apart from the Emperor, may be hated, and indue
time and season opposed and conquered.

Suppose the Emperor Hadrian were deposed,
abdicated, or dead ; what, then, is Eome
to a daughter of Israel ?

Akiba and Elkanah both know this position,
and both support it. It is a part of
that subtlety which passes in their minds for
wisdom.

Eor the present the proposed edict of

Rufus meets many difficulties, unless something
quite unforeseen should suddenly transpire. If
it be carried out in full it is all so much in
favour of the Jews in Palestine that it may
quiet their patriotic longings for many a long
day, and leave them ready to proclaim their
own independence should the power of Eome
begin to wane. The acts of Hadrian have
shown already that, in his opinion, the conquering
hand of Eome has been carried too far
by the fighting Trajan. Perhaps Eome has
gone on to victory further than is safe, and,
ruined by wars with distant foes and drained
of men, may one day soon be glad to come to
terms with a friendly people and grant an
autonomy to the Jews of the Holy Land.

The hope is reasonable, and is also reasonably
honest ; but, with the exception of that
part which permits the extension of the schools,
and which, on the ground of precedent, Eufus
himself takes the responsibility of permitting,
nothing is done. The Jews must wait for
Caesar.

When Antinous returns to Eome, Hadrian,
the soul of the Empire, is in the throes of one
of the severest fits of despondency from which

he has ever suffered. His mind is oppressed
with the idea of the utter carelessness of life
and the absolute vanity of the highest, the
most exalted, the most successful human
ambition. He demands the right to die. He
calls upon Tryphon to give him ' morion,'
death-wine, that he, like the many wretched
creatures on the cross, may depart in peace
from a world which is to him a prolonged
and agonising crucifixion. He cannot rest,
he cannot sleep, he cannot work. His judgment
is as clear as ever ; his reasoning
powers are not diseased, but his animal life
is virtually dead, and his emotional life is
a sea of trouble. He is afflicted with panic
about nothing at all ; some impending evil or
sorrow, the nature of which he cannot define,
is ever upon him ; the blackness of death
grows white to his ideal eyes whenever the
blackness of life comes under his contemplation.


Tryphon, fairly unable to cope with such
despairing gloom, prays for no one so much as
Antinous, and Hadrian on his part counts the
seconds for the arrival of his ambassador.
Courier after courier is despatched to haste

Antinous home, and all the Court waits in
expectation.

One word from Antinous will be worth
more than Aesculapius himself,' says the
Empress Sabina, as with the young and growing
favourite Marcus Antoninus she discusses
the Emperor's last words in the delirium from
which he suffers.

At last the healing and long-expected
messenger arrives, and hastens to the side of
the Euler of the legions, the Prince of the
whole world.

What is the magic which some of the
human race possess .^ Why does the same
word which from one mouth is meaningless
or despicable become a word of healing and
confidence from another mouth that may be
much less learned and even less honest and
truthful ?

It is impossible to answer.

Antinous faces the despairing Caesar, taking
him by surprise at a moment when he is depressed
almost to the death for which he is
imploring.

How well my gracious lord looks ! * This
is the first greeting.

Well, my Antinous ! I am sick to desperation,
killed with black care, darker, denser
than the most wretched horseman ever carried
at his back. Atra ciira — black care
Atra cura, my Antinous, bears me to the
earth.'

Atra cur a is not the word for C^sar, whose
face bears a light of health and youth which
I have never seen before. Atra cura belongs
rather to thy Antinous, who, alarmed by the
message he has received, has rested neither
day nor night until the wearied eyes should
witness that men had been deceived and that
Caesar was never more ready for new work
and new enterprise than now.'

It is enough. Under the impression that
his favourite is suffering for his sake, Hadrian
instantly forgets his own anxieties. He whoa
moment ago was the patient becomes the
physician.

Tryphon, unable to repress the smile he
throws at his clever ally, falls into the humour.
Antinous must have every care. Caesar is
convalescent ; it is Antinous that must be
looked after. Food, wine, rest, pastime — all
for Antinous.

The Emperor and Tryphon are in daily-consultation,
in which the Empress joins.

The Emperor asks what more can be done
that Antinous may recover.

Hast thou, great Tryphon, no restorative
in all thy treasury of medicaments that can
save such a life ? '

'Antinous, Prince, has told me the sovereign
remedy. It is the medicine for the
mind that he requires. If Caesar would condescend
to lead Antinous to some new scene
all would soon be well.'

And where is the scene that would suit
the best?'

Egypt, the land of wonders. The land of
the mighty Pharaohs, the land which Moses,
Alexander, Herodotus, Cyrus, Plato, Pliny,
studied with such devoted ardour, and in
which Hadrian might also find the choicest
treasures of his Empire.'

'So let it be. It has long been the desire
of Hadrian's heart to visit Egypt with
Antinous.

Let no time be lost, we will go to the
land of marvels. Let every scholar, every
architect, every philosopher, every sculptor,

every artist, every writer, every artisan who
belongs to the travelling cortege of C^sar,
prepare for Egypt.'

The cheek of Antinous revives under
the thought of the journey,' is the report of
Tryphon each morning to his Imperial master.

And the cheek of the master revives also.

The healing gifts of Antinous have returned,'
is another report of the subtle Tryphon
to the delighted Caesar.

When are we ready for the journey ? '

All are ready.'

Nothing, so far, could be more propitious.
Hadrian, forgetting all his own sorrows, dedicates
to his friend the poem soon to be
well known as ' Cor non editor ' (' Eat not
thine heart')

Cor non Editor.

Eat not thine heart, with care :

The gods are kind
To all who bravely bear

The equal mind,

And cast their cares behind.

Eat not thine heart, with dread ;

The gods supply
Each man with living bread

Who dares rely

Upon his destiny.

Eat not thine heart, with grief :

The gods will bring
To the pure soul relief

From evil thing

That unto it may cling.

Eat not thine heart, with thought :

The gods ordain
No mind shall e'er be bought

Or sold, for gain,

That would to theirs attain.

Marching to Neapolis the travellers set
sail for Alexandria, and for some weeks stay-there,
in the home of light and knowledge.

Alexandria is divided, physically and mentally,
into classes or sections. The Jews have
their part of the city, the Eomans and Greeks
theirs, the Egyptians theirs. These form
what may be considered three distinct schools
of thought, a social triangle the base of which
is Egyptian, one side Grseco-Eoman and the
other Hebraic.

The sections live in learned amity : the
disputes they hold are often keen, but they
do not disturb the general good feeling which
has long prevailed in the memories of the
great men who have lived in the city of
learning. Greeks, Eomans, and Egyptians

alike refer with pride to the learned Philonn
Judges, whose work, ' The Heir of Divine
Things,' is still popular ; Jews and Egyptians
agree in respecting the memory of Pompey notwithstanding
his onslaught on Jerusalem, while
they equally lament the unfortunate siege of
Caesar, which led to the accidental destruction
by fire of that great library of the Museum
which held a copy of every known book in
all the known world. And Greeks, Eomans,
and Jews alike agree in their admiration
of the wisdom and learning and industry
of ancient Egypt, the mother of their souls.

Still in one of the courts of the magnificent
temple of Serapis is a library of half a
million volumes saved from the assault of
Caesar ; not, alas, the choicest of the book
treasures in the once famous Museum, but
still a world in itself of the inspiration of
mankind.

Hadrian is now in a sphere which is to
him the richest and the best. He is at home.
He forgets his own ailments ; he rejoices to
see that Antinous is happy ; he resides in a
part of the temple of Serapis itself, that he
may be near the renowned library, and there,

irrespective of creed or race, he discusses
things past, present, and to come with all the
learned and the wise.

Access is denied to no scholar. The
student of the Eleusinian mysteries is hereat
home with the Emperor, and teaches even
the Emperor much in which he delights.
The Egyptian priest recounts to him the
mystery of Horus, the child god, representing
Osiris, who descended from heaven, who
became incarnate ; who opposed the dark
spirit of evil ; who, after working astounding
miracles, laid down his Hfe for man, was
buried, rose again, and ascending back to his
immortal mansions, by his immortal part,
left his body in the tomb of the holy island,
the tomb of the ' opener of good,' and the
'judge of the living and the dead.'

In like manner the Caesar listens to the
Gnostic mystic who combines the Egyptian
ritual and faith with the Jewish traditions ; who
clothes the Eternal power in light and glory,
and in noble poetry carries the soul of man
himself out of its mortal garb of flesh, even at
the will of man, into the pleura or region of
celestial and immortal life. Nor is so simple

and genuine a man as the pure Galilean
or Nazarene forbidden the presence of the
Emperor. No ; he, too, finds Caesar ready not
merely to listen to his record or gospel, but,
struck by its simplicity and beauty, to propose
to the silent horror of the gospeller, that the
grand central figure of that gospeller's narrative
should be placed like one of the gods
of Eome in a shrine or temple erected to his
honour in the holy Jerusalem.

To the Jews of the old and orthodox faith
of their fathers he shows, moreover, a condescension
which no previous Caesar has ever
shown before. Antinous and Tryphon are at
hand to suggest what is good for their people,
and by casual and yet judicious words
pour into his bosom the patriotic sentiments
which are implanted most deeply in their
own natures.

The Emperor goes even to the grand
synagogue : witnesses the classes of the guilds
and the council of the Elders ; hastens to the
soul-stirring service, and, lost in the enthusiasm
which follows the singing of the glorious
psalm : —

The heavens declare the glory of the Lord

lends his own voice to the loud Hallelujah, and
directs that the poem shall be written out for
him in letters of gold, that he may himself
translate it into Eoman verse.

That this enthusiasm of Hadrian is merely
a sign of his emotional nature ; that it does not
reside in his retentive and reasoning soul, is
clear enough from the observation he afterwards
made, and which has been already recorded.

While, however, the enthusiasm is upon
him, the opportunity is excellent for placing
before him the proposed edict of Eufus.
Antinous has prepared the way by recounting
to him at opportune moments the events of the
late journey through Palestine, and when the
document is duly placed before him he gives
to it his most careful perusal. Not only so,
but he very cordially approves of it as a whole,
and expresses the pleasure it will give him to
visit Palestine personally and to have a medal
struck in honour of the visit, in which he shall
be depicted holding out the olive branch of
peace to a symbolised Conqueror of Judea,
bearing a likeness to the countenance of the
handsome ambassador who has served the
cause of Israel so well and so wisely.

An artist accompanying the Emperor is
duly instructed to prepare the design of the
medal, and executes the order so promptly
and so much to the pleasure of Caesar, that the
medal is struck in anticipation of the impending
tour.

The projected design so far exceeds all
expectation ; but — there is often a ' but ' in
matters of greatest moment — one difficulty
intervenes : a postponement from a cause
that is inevitable.

Hadrian from the very commencement of
his reign has shown an almost superstitious
deference to the wishes and decisions of the
Senate. For that august body itself he does
not really and intrinsically care ' a worn-out
sandal ; ' a fact he would show to it in an
hour if it presumed to question his absolute
authority. But — there is that wonderful
but ' again — it answers his sovereign pleasure
to assume a respect which, although
but childish, serves his purpose. In his absence
the Senate governs through the Empress,
and as it is his wish to be absent from
Eome whenever he likes and as long as he
likes, it is excellent policy to trust the Senate.

VOL. IL R

The Senate in return trusts him. Let an
upstart claimant to the throne appear while
he is away, and there is the Senate sitting for
Hadrian.

The Senate is Caesar and Caesar is the
Senate.

In personal consultation with the Senate
the will of CsBsar is the will of the Senate.
Away from Rome the will of the Senate is the
will of Caesar.

On this important matter, therefore, the
Senate must be consulted. The whole business
is a farce, that Antinous and Tryphon know
perfectly, but it must be complied with. No
law of Mede or Persian is more unalterable
than that law.

So the edict must wait. It is not much of
a compromise after all. The journey through
Egypt will soon be over ; the sojourn afterwards
in Eome need not be for long ; and then
will come the triumphant march through the
Holy Land and, it may be, the reconstruction
of the Holy Temple for the children of the
Lord in the land of promise flowing with milk
and honey.

The Imperial travellers pursue their way

through the mysteries of Egypt. Proceeding
along the Nile they arrive at Heliopolis, where
they rest to see the wonderful seat of learning
at which so many of the great lights of the
ancient world have lived and studied. Heliopolis
is no longer the school of schools, but
much remains to be observed which gives
to the place an undying glory. Here still
stands the house of Plato, or the house where
he resided when, in the prime of his life, he
travelled to the first academy of the earth
and took his lessons there. Athens has long
since been more famous than Heliopolis, and
Eome is rising into rivalry with Athens, but
both these came from this sacred spot. What
Eome is to Athens, Athens once was to Helix
polls.

And if there were nothing more in Heliopolis
than one simple thing, that simple thing
is worth all the journey — the obelisk of
Osirtasen.

The obelisk, constructed of granite, is over
two thousand years of age. On two sides of
it is an inscription written fully twenty
centuries ago, and perfect now as ever.
The pride of Hadrian is touched. Shall he,

R 2

Emperor of the world, remain a pillar of
history for as many centuries as this dead
monolith ? What ages yet may it not last ?
What great king placed it where it stands and
ordered it to be inscribed upon ?

Let this visit to the granite column be
recorded and take its chance of history.

From Hehopohs, the city of the sun, the
travellers wander to the great Pyramids and
the immortal Sphinx, then along the river to
the mighty Thebes, the centre of the temples
of the living and the dead.

In the region of Thebes Hadrian lives
another new life. He is one of the greatest
monarchs who has ever reigned. His kingdom,
in the minds of his people, is the whole
earth, and he himself, notwithstanding his
travels by land and sea, has seen it most imperfectly.
The place which he now visits is
Diis dominion. If anybody at any time can
stand by or in the temple palaces and say
these are mine, Hadrian is that man. He can
by his mere will command that any one ol
them shall be his living residence ; he can by
decree equally command that any one of the
temples of the dead shall be his tomb.

In the days of the Pharaohs one-third of
the land of Egypt belonged to the reigning
Pharaoh, one-third to the priests of the
temples, one-third to the soldiers who maintained
the dominion of the king. At this
moment Hadrian can still claim the rents or
dues of one-third of the lands held by the
people in bondage under him, as in the ancient
time. A fifth of the value of all produce is
his, as it was of Eameses the Great.

Hadrian is more than Eameses ; he is the
Imperator, the leader of the army of Eome,
the absolute holder and distributor of that
living engine of power. Hadrian is, therefore,
the virtual owner of another third of Egypt,
and if the priests be disloyal he can easily
grasp their third and take the whole.

Caesar is Egypt and Egypt is C^sar.

But the august presence of the past in these
dwellings of the still living dead is more than
Hadrian can bear. He requires no standardbearer
here to whisper in his ear, ' Remember,
thou art but a man.' He feels the fact from
head to foot, his eyes transmit it to his brain,
and he trembles under the impression.

What art thou, Hadrian the Spaniard,

raised by the intrigues of a woman and the
voices of a few soldiers into a throne made
for thee? What art thou by the side of
Eameses the Great and Memnon and Sethos
and the rest of the mighty monarch s who built
these palaces of life and death ?

Thou art a fool, Hadrian, a mere adventurer,
a corsair on the sea of time. Hide thyself,
man, from the light of history beneath the foot
of Eameses the Great.

A visit to the eastern colossus of Thebes,
the vocal Memnon of the third Amunoph,
completes the impressions thus made upon
his mind. He is fain to be away ; he is seized
with the idea that some of the incomprehensible
masses of pillars and arches of the temples
will fall upon him and crush him into dust,
and this sense of impending physical risk begins
to haunt him in his sleep. Yet must he
see the colossus of Memnon, and, if possible,
hear the voice that speaks from its stony
heart.

The priests of the vocal figure of stone are
ready for Caesar.

With becoming awe they prostrate themselves
before him. What is their poor statue.

dead and cold, to living, burning Caesar?
What is the hollow voice that rings out a
sound for a few cubits' length from the statue
to the voice that rings over the whole earth ?

Come, mighty Caesar, come and listen to
the voice of Memnon ! Let the Csssar that
was, the Caesar of three thousand years agone,
exchange speech with the living C^sar of today.


Could Tryphon and Antinous have their
own way, the twelfth C^sar of Eome would
not listen to the voice of Amunoph the Third
of Egypt. They know too well the effect the
voice will have on the impressionable mind of
him they serve, and whose love of the marvellous
is the weakest greatness of all his greatness.
Moreover, they are both clever enough
and subtle enough to entertain a huge suspicion
that the voice is a cheat, a juggle as
deep as all that adoration and prostration
which the priests of Memnon are now acting
so intently to Caesar.

On this matter, however, they are powerless.
If the love of the marvellous inherent
in their master were broken, their own power
were also broken. After all, they are what

the priests are. Shall diamond cut diamond
?

A grand array of priests stands around the
eastern colossus of Thebes, the vocal Memnon,
to receive the Caesar.

They have erected an altar of stone at the
base of the figure. Upon the altar they offer
their incense to the ' Euler of the earth.' They
chant a hymn to Memnon and to Caesar :

The Hymn to Memnon.

God of Egypt 1 god of Ages !

Wake to life thy heart of stone ;
Whilst another god engages

To thy voice to lend his own.

Let thy priests, who humbly fear thee.
Pray thee speak, if but a word ;

Lest the god who comes to hear the
Draw out his avenging sword.

Hark ! the god of night attending
To the prayers his servants pray ;

Now a gracious ear is lending
To his brother, god of day 1

The words, explained to Hadrian by Tryphon,
who knows the language in which they
are sung, are as grateful to the vanity of the

Imperial genius as they are singular to his
sense, for under some circumstances Hadrian
is as vain as under other circumstances he
seems careless of praise or diffident in respect
to it. In plain truth he is always vain, but ashe
soon tires of everything that is often repeated,
he wearies of honours and of adulation
that come upon him in repetition.

It is a novelty of adulation to be coupled
in name and qualities with Memnon, and therefore
it is for the moment a delight to his
mind.

The priests follow up their chant by a
kind of prayer said in reverent posture with
the head bent, the arms crossed over the
breast, and the face directed to the east. They
then separate into two columns, through which
the Emperor is led by the chief of them to the
base of the statue.

Who art thou,' asks Caesar, ' that has
spoken through the ages ? '

In an instant there rings out from the
seemingly dead statue the sound of a silver
and musical tongue, so clear that none could
mistake it. To the Emperor it replies, distinctly
and resonantly, in answer to his question : —

Memnon.'

Dost thou know my name ? '

In a sharper but more prolonged strain
there comes again an answer which he translates
unmistakably.

Caesar.'

'To what place am I bound to go from
hence ? '

Once more an answer, round, ringing,
positive, though perhaps rather abbreviated,
as if the final vowel were deficient or softened :

Emma.'

Henceforth the statue is dumb. It has
never before been known to answer the same
voice three times.

The Emperor is escorted back to his courtiers
; the priests surround the statue and recommence
their prayers. Again, in honour of
their guest, they cast incense on the temporary
altar.

The scene is over, and Hadrian is content.

In the marvellous court of Osiris, of the
temple palace of Eameses the Great, the
Emperor fixes his Imperial quarters. This
palace, which contained the library of ancient
Egypt ages before the libraries of Alexandria

were known — the library called literally ' the
medicine of the mind ' — is now the veritable
possession of the master of the world. Eameses
himself was not more the ruler here than
Hadrian, and yet Hadrian is not at home.
The statue of Eameses is still the master. Its
present owner knows and feels himself to bea
stranger ; a curiosity seeker ; a possessor
who has no business in his own regal possessions.


Not until he finds himself in his poor
soldier's tent, pitched in the grand court of
Osiris, and shut off from that sublime and
mysterious temple, is Hadrian at home and at
peace.

Even then, when darkness falls, the spirits
of the awful past haunt him so fiercely that
the faithful Tryphon must sleep within speaking
distance and use all his consummate skill
of speech to while away the time and break
the sleepless spell.

Let the scholars try to translate the
writings on these palace walls,' is the order
of Caesar, suggested by Antinous.

Tryphon leads the way to the task, and
Hadrian follows with seven scholars more,

including Antinous, like the nine scholars of
Eameses.

There must be a key to the whole literature
of these walls.

Who shall find the key ?

It is a test of learning that creates the
keenest interest and the highest intellectual
activity.

The key is found : the sagacity of Antinous
discovers it. All anxieties, all fears of the
past fade away. The learned army of Hadrian
has conquered a kingdom, a world, the like of
which has never been conquered before.

The era of Hadrian shall rival that of
the first Caesar, of Augustus, of Vespasian. It
shall open a lost treasury. Alexander shall be
nowhere as a conqueror by the side of Hadrian.
The secrets of the pyramids, of the temples, of
the sphinx, of the vocal Memnon shall all be
his own.

Whether any marked progress would have
been made in the interpretation of the Egyptian
mysteries is unknown. The fates decree
that the labour shall cease before it has fairly
commenced, and when the fates decree even
Hadrian obey.

Again a message from Eome by special
bearer to Caesar.

The Senate prays, ' Return ! return ! return ! '

The danger is imminent. Once more the
Jews of Cyprus are the trouble. Under the
hand of a fierce Eoman oppressor they have
been massacred in one of their synagogues.
They have risen in response, have fought like
lions at bay, preferring rather to die than to
Hve. They have gained what amounts to a
practical victory, and on their parts have
retaliated with fearful vengeance on Eoman
men, women, and children.

The news of their sufferings and of their
temporary triumph has reached Judea, waiting
anxiously for the Emperor's sanction to the
edict, and irritated by the delay. Eufus has
lost his presence of mind, and is relying on the
army rather than on diplomacy. There is a
rumour that the advent of the long-expected
Star of Jacob, the deliverer, the Messiah of the
Jews, has been proclaimed ; that the loyalty
of the great Akiba is doubted ; and that
Servien is resolute on repression, but irresolute
when and where to begin that gloomy and
doubtful process.

'May it please the Emperor at once to
return and guide the counsels of Eome by his
unerring wisdom.'

The Emperor hesitates not one moment.
By the close of the day following that upon
which the messenger arrives he is on his way
back to Eome, proclaiming that Caesar returns
to the helm of the state. That fact alone may
check the course of the rebellion, and does so.

If the Emperor will come straight into
Palestine from Egypt, bearing the edict and
granting it, all will go well. So urge his two
best and wisest counsellors, Tryphon and Antinous.


For once the Emperor refuses to listen to
this advice. He must be faithful to his faithful
Senate. The Senate expects him ; the
Senate has better and later information than
he ; by going direct to Palestine he may cross
or thwart some wise measure which the Senate
has taken, and he must not run the risk of
befalling the Senate. Moreover, he has no
armed force with which to enter a land that
may be in rebellion from north to south, from
east to west.

There is reason in the argument as well as

determination, prudence as well as caution,
loyalty as well as dignity.

And above all reasons, above all subtleties
against the design of going first to Palestine,
there is the order of Memnon. The command
of Memnon is as clear as it is inevitable.
Memnon directs to Eome. Neither Antinous
nor Tryphon can answer Memnon.

The course is definite ; they must to
Eome.

Eeturning, they arrive at Memphis ; they
will soon reach Alexandria and embark there.

Some, but not all. All except one.

It is necessary that they shall rest for a day
or two at Memphis in order to proceed along
the branch of the Nile leading to Alexandria,
in vessels of a different class from those in
which they have descended from Thebes.
The changes imply delay.

To pass the time, Hadrian proposes that he,
Tryphon, Antinous, and the selected scholars
of his Court shall cross the river and once
more visit Heliopolis, in order to see what
resemblance the inscription on the wonderful

obelisk of Osirtasen bears to the inscriptions
found in the palaces of Barnes.

The day is fine and all is propitious for the
expedition.

They start on a raft apparently well constructed
and manageable, but when they
have reached the centre of the stream it
proves to the Egyptians who have the charge
of it to be too heavily laden.

To return is impossible, and the danger
every moment increases.

The raft begins to sink !

The raft is loaded with human freight
alone, so that it can only be lightened by one
at least of that freight plunging from it into
the stream.

Who shall it be that shall save the Emperor
of the world from the grave of the
waters ?

In the solemn emergency Antinous comes
forth, clasps the hand of Caesar, kisses it, and
while yet the tears from the eyes of the brave
soul rest on it and the warmth of the lips remain
upon it, leaps into the stream and is seen
no more.

The raft rises slowly, is rowed safely back

to the point of the shore near Memphis from
which it started, and Caesar and his followers
tread once more the firm earth.

But Antinous ?

Boats manned by hands most familiar with
the currents of the river are sent out in every
direction to find the friend of friends of Caesar.
Rewards, honours, everything are offered to
him, to them, who shall bring the beloved to the
Imperial mourner, even though it be a dead
Antinous.

All come back empty and desolate.
Watches are set on the borders of the river
for miles upon miles, at the ports, at the
landing-places. By day the river is like a
procession, by night it is like a feast of lights.
Caesar himself is everywhere where boat can
carry him.

It is a vain search.
Antinous is lost to Caesar for ever. Forever!


Heartbroken, life-broken, bearing in every
look, in every act, funereal gloom, the Emperor
of the world, long lingering on his weary way,
re-enters Eome.

VOL. II. s

Henceforth let it be the full care of
Hadrian to beatify the immaculate being who
laid down his life that he, Caesar, might be
saved from death. For such a service there
are no honours too magnificent. Antinous
must be numbered with the eternal deities.
Statues must be raised to the glorious memory
of this immortal mortal. A city must bear
the name of Antinous ; a youth so pure he
might have been a virgin, a virgin vestal and
sanctified.

C^sar lives ! Antinous is no more !

CHAPTEE XIV.

BETROTHED TO FATE.

While solemn events, tending to great changes
and tumults, are occurring in the East ; while
rumours of war thicken there and the heart
of Israel is crying, ' How long, Lord, how
long ? ' Simeon and Erine, in company with
their* father, for now Simeon is the legally
adopted son of Leon, travel together on foot,
unprotected and even unprovided for, from
north to south, from east to west of Juverna.
In the extreme north they find a mighty causeway
and temple, cut out of the solid rock, in
which the Titans of old held their festivals to
their divinities.

They row into the splendid caverns, arched
and sombre, and sing a song of joy which
comes back to them in a hundred echoes.
They visit magnificent towers, rising like
columns of light from the earth, where whites

2

robed priests chant their orisons to the eternal
sun and moon and stars. They go with the
priests to the heights of the mountains and
help them keep aught the sacred fires that
never are extinguished. They pass into the
south to discover on the coast a volcano not
yet extinct, throwing out, at fitful periods, its
fire and its ashes, and forming the centre of a
volcanic region in the face of a glorious bay
leading into a southern sea of emerald brightness.
To the shores of this volcanic bay the
winds have wafted from tropical and subtropical
lands the seeds of richly-coloured
flowering plants, which spring up, luxuriantly
amongst the volcanic debris and yield a weird
beauty that can only be appreciated by being
directly seen. In the emerald waters Leviathan
lies by, a friend and wonder of all the
coast and of all who sail past. They go onboard
the beautiful vessel, and putting up her
white sails skim along the coast-line of the
south from the centre to the extreme eastern
boundary, then to the extreme western and
back to the centre. The water is so clear
that, when Leviathan is at rest, they can see to
the floor of the sea and the varied life that is

there. From the land the scent of the flowers
diffuses over the sea, and the stars, they think,
shine brighter than they ever did before.
Their own constellation is there, and Orion
and the gentle Pleads,

Who seek all night their lost and wandering sister.

Every star in its course blesses them. So
do the people, the noble and romantic people.
When Leviathan comes to the different 
the people put out in their boats
and canoes to say ' Welcome ! ' bringing with
them fruits, fresh water, and flowers. They
carry with them also their musical instruments,
with which they make the heart
gladder than with wine, for wine and all its
allies is as unknown in the Island of Peace
and Beauty, the pure Juverna, as the poisonous
reptile which cannot live on the soil.
Simeon, who has heard so much in favour of
wine in his Eastern life, wonders at seeing so
much happiness where wine is not to be
found. Leon explains to him that the secret
of the existence of the Island of Peace and
Beauty lies in the absence of wine. Their
sacred scriptures tell them that in the future

homes of the blessed, into which they shall pass
after death, there is no such evil thing, and
quotes to him a verse which, interpreted as
near as a foreign tongue will permit, runs : —

Wine would make glorious heaven a raging hell ;
Make every parched tongue a tongue of fire
"Which water could not quench ; make life a dream
Of falsehood, fury, and debauchery.

Simeon marvels, but Erine who is his prophetess,
supports Leon, and a prophetess is
beyond argument.

Sometimes Leon and Simeon discuss points
of faith and morals, and mysteries the most
sublime.

Simeon has been brought up in the
strictest form of the Mosaic school. He has
no knowledge of any future life, no belief in
any future reward or punishment. The God
of Moses, according to his view, is the present,
ever-avenging, ever-sustaining Omnipotence.
His will is to be done on earth. His will is law,
which He has revealed through His commandments
to His people. Other people have laws,
but not His law. Simeon and the chosen
have His law, and they have no desire that
any other people should have it. One day.

no doubt, for the mouth of the Lord hath
spoken it, He will, through his chosen ones,
establish a kingdom of universal righteousness,
a kingdom of glory which shall never pass
away ; but it will be a kingdom of righteousness
and perpetuity, because it will be ruled
by and through His laws ; and it will be a
kingdom of this earth. Men will live as now,
die as now ; they will pass into the eternal silence
as eternal silences ; but the kingdom will
remain an everlasting kingdom, because it will
be under the everlasting commandments, read
and kept and interpreted by the elect of the
people of the city of Zion, which is to be the
city of the elect.

This is what Akiba has taught Simeon, with
the addition that he, Simeon, is to be the
Messiah who shall re-establish the law and lay
the foundations of Zion itself, the new, the
holy Jerusalem ; the home and house of the
God of Jacob, in which His honour shall dwell
for evermore.

To the views of Simeon Leon has his
answer. He also has his scriptures, which
teach him what he feels to be a nobler and
higher reading of the supreme and ruling

power and mysterious Lord of the heavenly
sphere. The views of Simeon he holds to be
those of a sect or race exclusive and limited.
He cannot admit that the Divinity he recognises
can ever specially favour one race or one
people. His great divinity gives, he reverently
assumes, the reasoning soul to all the children
of men, and blesses all who learn and know
the laws which govern life and nature.

To know is to live and to love ; not to know
is to hate ; to hate is to die.

Listening to the story of Simeon, as he
has often heard it, about the release of the
Israelites from their Egyptian bondage, Leon
suggests respectfully that the Mosaic ordination,
which concentrated all law and all reward
and all punishment in the immediate will of
the Power declared by Moses, was a necessary
condition of the liberation ; that it kept the
people together ; that it enabled them to
establish a peculiar system of government
which had its history, and which, without any
dispute, had demonstrated that a people could,
under peculiar circumstances, be and become
a powerful people, on a purely worldly basis,
under the guidance of a spirit not of this world

but of all worlds, which by the voice of their
lawgivers and prophets spoke to them.

But see,' he adds, ' the result : these very-people
are now under Eomansway ; the Eoman
divinities have conquered them and rule them
with a rod of iron.

The chord of life in Simeon is touched
now. It is all true what the wise Leon has
said. But the chosen people have broken
from him who chose them, they have been
punished by him who chose them, and at
last, the punishment all but concluded, the
time has come when the deliverer is at hand
who shall fight the rude enemy, re-establish
the everlasting kingdom, and make Zion the
centre of all the happiness that shall spring
from the law of the omnipotent, omnipresent
and invisible Spirit, whom no one can see and
live, and whose Holy Name — blessed be it ! —
can be uttered by no son of his people.

Erine, sweet Erine, art thou listening to this
thy fate, for what is Simeon's fate is thine ?

Leon, at least, listens, and sighs. If an
ordinary man, however great a scholar of his
own country, had ventured to talk in such a
strain he would have accounted him mad ; but

this, being sent to him through fire and through
water, is not ordinary. He has a destiny, and
the destiny is revealed to him, Leon in directions
which no one can gainsay.

The Lion of Judah must play his preordained
part, let come what may. In the
end it will all be according to the Divine will
here or hereafter, for Leon the Wise believes
that every man will be according as he has
been.

Leviathan is directed to leave the southern
coast and skirt the western until she shall be
signalled by the sun's rays to meet her chief and
his beloved belongings. For themselves they
will proceed to the west by land, will diverge
towards the centre of the island to see the
forest temple of Elbana ; will then strike
northernward again with a bearing towards
the west ; will visit a famous city of marble,
and after that, going directly west, will rejoin
their vessel and make an outward cruise,
perhaps to the south-western Cassiterides, or
to Ultima Thule, the last place of the northern
earth known to them.

They make their journey to the western
side of the island on foot, that they may miss

nothing of the extreme beauty of hake and
wood. Surely such lakes were never elsewhere
known. On these lakes the women, in
dresses of white and sashes of red, take the
oar in turn with their husbands, and sing at
the labour as if engaged in a pastime and a
pleasure. They know not the name of work.
Their husbands join in songs and stories, songs
and stories of love and harmony, specially appropriate
to the matchless lovers, whom they
admire as something more than the ordinary
types of human kind.

The songs of the men and the women are
rivalled by the songs of the birds. The
nightingale sings to them with immortal
sweetness. Erine wonders at eventide what
manner of bird this can be. The next morning
one is brought to her for her particular
admiration. She nestles it in her bosom and
sings to it so persuasively that when she offers
it its liberty it lingers ere it flies away. At
night, when their boat is floating under the
woods, a bird breaks forth into song above
their heads. The sailors say it is the bird
that left the breast of Erine, and that it sings
her song. Night after night this same event

recurs, so that at last the bird that sings the
song of Erine the beautiful becomes a tradition
lapsing into words and melody : —

The Song of Erine.

Flutter 1 flutter ! heart to heart,
Maiden's heart so near to mine.

Flutter ! flutter ! we must part,
I to my love, thou to thine.
Trill 1 trill ] trill ! in song divine.

Warble I marble ! voice to voice,
Maiden's voice so like to mine.

Warble 1 warble I we rejoice
I for my love, thou for thine.
Trill ! trill I trill ! in song divine.

Listen I listen ! ear to ear,
Maiden's ear attuned to mine.

Listen I listen ! let no tear

Fall from my love nor from thine.
Trill ! trill 1 trill I in song divine.

Left to their own devices the lovers would
gladly linger in this sweet and exquisite
elysium for any length of days, for the wings
of love and of time beat synchronously, and
one is as the other. But even elysium must
have an end, and under the guidance of their
father the next chapter of their happy pilgrimage
is commenced and carried forth.

They return from the lakes by a northeasterly
route along a grand and unique
broadsword, through winding avenues of trees
leading to Elbana. They pass through lovely
villages, in each of which they find a home ;
for here there are no poor and no rich, no
savage luxury, no war, no fury of strife, no
wild beast, no serpent, no venomous thing
in the whole land.

Pursuing their way by easy stages they
enter at length a forest larger than any they
traversed in the sister island, in which they
pass through pathways of embowering trees
straight as the course of an arrow. Arch
upon arch of leafy canopy overshadows them
within evening windows of light which open
like partitions of the firmament and produce
an effect on their minds as if the firmament
itself were descending towards them, and as if
stars were faintly seen in the light of day.

Along these avenues of light and shade
they meet the many who are coming from or
going to the grand and central wonder of all
this island of the blessed : the scholar who
officiates at the altar, clothed in a vestment
white as the purest snow ; the poet or prophet.

the scholar of the skies, wearing the vestments
of his sphere, the ethereal robe of the canopy,
with stars that brighten it, and the sun that
fills it with his splendour ; and others who, like
the wise Leon, wear the mantle of the globe, the
emerald green that clothes the earth as with a
garment, and who gather from the earth the
thousand upon thousand of secrets which she
holds in trust for those who ask her for her
treasures.

Mixed with these are they of simpler mind
and manner, who live for themselves in their
own Httle worlds ; not selfish, as having no
one's welfare save their own in view, but having
in modest seclusion, wanting no more than they
possess, and content to live and die in the lap
of felicity.

They reach at last the temple of temples,
the temple of the forest of Elbana, in the heart
of glad and smiling Juverna.

From the nearest point on the eastern side
of the island a little arm of the silvery sea puts
itself forth from the ocean, as if the ocean and
the oceans wished to touch the margin of the
sacred place.

An open-roofed expanse of green sward is

entered by a winding passage of trees at the
westernmost part, a floor of grass four hundred
cubits in length, towards the east, and three
hundred wide ; a vast nave, with columns
of massive lofty trees on each side in regular
order, the boughs of which arch over
to each other, and at small distances let in light
which strikes the verdant floor below and fills
all the space with the colours of the earth and
the sun.

At the extreme eastern end of this temple,
separated by a cross Hne of trees from the
rest of the nave, is the central altar, on which
burns, as it has burnt for ages, the sacred fire of
Elbana in the heart of the island of Juverna.

Reverently and gracefully the three pilgrims
approach the sacred fire and cast their
offerings of choice cedar wood upon it.

Clothed in pure white robes of ceremony,
Simeon and Erine kneel on the sacred stone
before the eternal symbol of fife and being
and power ; the power that binds and loosens,
destroys and constructs, tears to pieces and
brings together, kills and makes alive.

It is the hour of their betrothal, an hour
in which love conquers as nothing else can.

Simeon, thou slave of love, how didst thou
cast that bundle of cedar wood on the fire
of the. unholy one, the Baal of thy father's
enemies ? Fie, Simeon ! thou who met a wild
beast and became a torch rather than cast a
pinch of incense on the altar of Caesar ! Fie,
indeed ; to let the god of love cajole and command
thee, and prove what a slave thou art !

It is the solemn hour of the betrothal of
Simeon and Erine ; the betrothal of the hope
of an oppressed people with the flower of living
flowers of the Island of Peace and Beauty ;
of Juverna, the gem of the western sea.

It is their betrothal according to the
ceremonial, ancient and beautiful, of the old
and poetical faith in which Leon and all his
race believe. It is a ceremonial symbohsing,
in the simplest and yet most august type,
a perpetual existence through the phases of
death, of life, of immortality.

The eternal existence is always there in
the fire that never ceases to burn.

The two lovers kneeling in its presence
are symbols of the spirit kindling but not yet
kindled. Into the hand of each is placed a
torch shaped as a sheaf of corn, but unlighted.

As they kneel they join their sheaves together
by the extreme ends and hold them
like an arch over their heads. Then one of
the priests of the altar lights another torch
from the sacred fire and brings it to Leon,
who lights from it the two torches held by
the loving pair.

Their combined torches alight, Simeon and
Erine rise, and bending their heads carry the
flame to the foot of the altar.

They now turn their backs to the sacred
fire, and facing the congregation hold still
on high the united blazing sign. The priest
receives from them the symbol, and raisins
over them, as they once more kneel, pronounces
the blessing.

Then casting the combined torch into the
fire of the altar, and waiting until it is quite
consumed, he explains to them the meaning
of the ceremonial. That when they first
stood before the sacred fire they were individual,
separate, ephemeral. Now they have
taken the first step towards a new state ; the
fire has welded them together ; they are
charged with its living influence, and in time
they shall be permitted to represent its im-vol.

II. T

mortality; they shall reproduce the fire of
life for the ages to come.

And so he bids them depart in peace, preparing
for the happier day when the betrothal
shall be confirmed and they twain shall be one.

They leave the altar, to traverse sweetly
and alone the mazes of this marvellous natural
temple : through side isles bedecked with
richest flowers in honour of the ceremony
in which they have played the chief part ; past
fountains of water bright as silver streaming
from ewers of gold ; through glades in which
unseen musicians play entrancing melodies ;
through caverns lighted with what seem to be
myriads of fireflies on the branches of trees, like
fruits of fire.

At last, wearied with the very richness of
delight, they return to the central nave to
rejoin the father of their love.

Ee-entering by a side aisle they discover
Leon in converse with a stranger. The face
of Leon is cast down and full, very full, of
sorrow.

The stranger with whom he is speaking
has his back to them, but Simeon knows at a
glance to whom the massive shoulders belong.

The Numidiann, with whom he was led to
fight in the camp in Siluria I

The Numidiann, as he turns to them his
handsome noble face, looks down with equal
sorrow on their eager, anxious, beauteous
expression.

He takes from his bosom a scroll written in
Hebrew characters and presents it to Simeon.

It is short, decisive, peremptory : —

To Simeon, the Son of a Star.

Prince of Israel. The time has come when all thy
people wait for their deliverer, and when the hour is
ripe for their deliverance.

The messenger Eli, the trusted of Huldah the
prophetess, the daughter of Elkanah of Caesarea, bears
this scroll and will bring thee to thy place and to thy
holy duty.

Akiba.

Written at Joppa in the tenth month and twelfth day
of the year of the great deliverance.

No more, no more, my gentle Erine, no
more of that look of terror and despair !

Bind us not, sweetest of maidens ; strike
us not dead with that look of terror and despair !

His fate has come, and to it thou art as
betrothed as to himself.

T 2

One long embrace, in which thy conscious
soul retreats into thy heart and leaves thy
senses void !

Awake ! awake ! to find thyself once more
transferred to thy father's loving arms, still
in the mighty temple of the skies, with night
drawing near and the curtains of the eternal
illuminated with his million fires falling over
the windows of the sun.

Let that gentle priest, dear Erine, his own
eyes wet with tears, direct thee ; and let that
strong guardian of thine, thy first, thy truest
protector, bear thee to the place of rest.

Father mine, is he gone ? '

Gone, my own, and now far, far away.
But be thou brave and hopeful, for he will
return to his betrothed.'

Yea, father mine ; he shall return when
the earth burns like that immortal fire ! Return
as one of the stars that shall ride into
the confused mass to find his love. Then, perchance,
we may again be one.'

Nay, my darling, this is wildness of love ;
he shall return a great ruler and prince, to
claim thee again, but neither in clouds nor
fire. Thou hast but to be firm and hopeful

and trustful, and all shall be bright, aye,
brighter than ever.'

A kiss of trust seals the lips of Leon.

Father, I am thy little child again until
he reclaims me.'

And so, father and daughter once more,
Leon and Erine Leoline, follow their willing
guide, to commence their days, or months, or
years of hope, expectation, and faith in him
whom they have lost until his mission is
fulfilled.

CHAPTER XY.

TO EITHER, THE 'HOUSE OF LIBERTY.'

The uprising of the Jews in Cyprus and afterwards
in Palestine is an event quite as serious
as had been represented, through the Senate,
to C^sar. The Eomans threw the whole
fault upon the Jews, but, in truth, the error
was originally entirely Eoman. The Eoman
governor of Cyprus was not without blame.
It was his bad fortune and folly to look upon
the Jews as an inferior as well as a conquered
race, and while he did not scruple to borrow
money of them at usury of a ruinous kind,
were it duly paid, he constantly forgot to pay
any at all, and when complaint was made
visited the complainants with condign punishment
for presuming to seek their legal if not
their honest gains.

In one of these disputes a Jew, who was a
freed man of Eome, interposed on behalf of

his fellow-countrymen, and being a man of
position and learning, threatened, through his
powerful friend Fortunatus, whom we know,
to get the whole particulars sent to Philemon,
the secretary of Hadrian.

The governor, to cut matters short and
prevent an exposure, which he very much
dreaded, took occasion of Hadrian's absence in
Egypt to seize this officious interloper, and on
a pretence of treasonable offences to lock him
up in prison until Caesar's return.

The act, altogether a gross usurpation of
power, led to a demonstration, firm but perfectly
peaceful, on the part of the Jews in
favour of the injured man. Their act was
again turned to a bad account. Some of them
were seized in their own homes and were
brought before the governor ; some of them
were condemned to be scourged, and some of
them were sent to the cross. Thereupon the
whole Jewish population rose, and proceeding
to extremities, retaliated on the Eoman people,
murdering indiscriminately every man, woman,
and child they could lay their hands on,
driving the comparatively small garrison of
Cyprus into its quarters, and keeping it thereat

starvation-point until relief came from
Sardinia, Joppa, and Eome by the arrival of a
sufficient body of Imperial troops to beat down
the insurrection.

When the news of these proceedings
reached Joppa, and the withdrawal of troops
showed the extremity to which the Jews of
Cyprus had driven their enemies, the students
of the schools were excited to actual tumult.
It was with the extremest difficulty that
Akiba, who was, fortunately, at that time at
Joppa, could hold them from open revolt.
From Joppa the contagion spread all over the
province, and specially in Jerusalem.

Eufus, quite unequal to meet the emergency,
at first vacillated. He was asked what
had become of the promised edict. He refused
to answer. He was asked if Caesar were
at Eome. He announced, truthfully or untruthfully,
that he did not know, and then,
changing his tone, said that he declined to tell.
He refused a memorial that was sent to him
expressing the loyal feelings of the Jewish
people, as a deceit and a delusion, and immediately
afterwards he promised to send a
special courier to Eome to bring back the

new ordinances with Caesar's approval, but
he failed so to do.

Finally, under great pressure, he sent for
Akiba from Joppa Jerusalem, and promised
him to carry out all the reforms that had been
proposed as far as he dare, on his own responsibility,
and he commissioned Akiba to go
from town to town to bear and confirm the
promise.

Akiba was dealing with water. Wherever
he went he found the name of Eufus a byword
amongst Eomans and Jews alike. The
officers of the Eoman army held Eufus of no
account whatever, the Jews despised him ;
and both agreed on this one point, although
on other points they hated each other to
the death.

The political complaint of the Jews had
become suicidal. The Jews would rather run
on the swords of their hated enemies than see
those swords hanging over them day by day,
without knowing when they would fall.

A more dangerous crisis can never exist
anywhere at any time : under it rebellion is
inevitable.

The acute mind of Akiba recognised the

position of affairs sharply and logically. The
fight must come ; the only question was,
when ?

The Eomans were never worse commanded,
never in a poorer state of preparation for hostilities.
The Jews were never more resolute ;
could they be armed, and could they have a
leader, they were invincible. They have no
arms, except a few of an almost hopeless kind,
but if they had a leader, a Messiah, who
could lead them to even one minor victory
he would soon lead them to more, and then
arms will quickly be forged, for every scholar
knows how to make a sword, a javelin, a bow,
a dart, a shield, and something else.

In his journeyings Akiba has with him
Elkanah, who is all for action. Though hebe
crucified again, he is all for action.

A ^g for crucifixion ! What is crucifixion
to a man who has once gone through it,
and who sees before him the glory of saving
his country from the rule of the tyrant ? He,
Elkanah, has been saved once. ' Is the arm
of the Lord shortened that it cannot save
again ? '

To your tents, Israel ! '

They reach Scythopohs. Here the Eoman
power is concentrated, and Elkanah almost
doubts. The behaviour of the Eoman officers
is insolent even to the renowned Akiba. It is
not wise to stay at the place. They will
move to the school which has been founded
to the north of the Sea of Galilee, to Either,
the ' House of Liberty.'

The decision is not a moment too early.
A few more hours, and Akiba with all his suite
would be lying in the fortress waiting the
will of the Emperor. Injured they would not
be, but they would be held for Caesar. Fortunatus
is with the garrison, and he has his
own views. He would be pleased to have so
grand a scholar in durance and bound friendship
near to him waiting for Caesar.

They escape and reach Either, an out-of-the-way
place, where there is no Eoman camp
near. It is too small a place, according to
Eufus, to be worth putting under guard. It
has no fortifications and it requires none, buta
little deep Jewish art has turned its natural
strength, without display, into great strength,
and the school is becoming immense.

The news that Akiba and his friends are

approaching Either has preceded them. As
they enter the place they are met by a procession
of scholars, headed by a woman who
strikes the cymbals over her head and dances
to the sound.

A moment of surprise and recognition, and
the dancer, at the feet of Elkanah, is receiving
his paternal blessing, while loud acclamations,
in which Akiba joins, follow as the
lookers-on learn that Huldah, the long-lost
daughter of Elkanah and Israel, has been
restored to her father and her people.

The recognitions over, they enter the
'House of Liberty ' with rejoicing such as have
not been heard in all Palestine since the days
when the great Solomon was king and the
Temple was the pride of the earth.

It is a triumphal procession to the ' House
of Liberty.' The daughter of Elkanah, seizing
once more her cymbals, leads the way, and
with clash of the ringing metals tells in voice
of song her escape back to her people.

The Song of Deliverance of Huldah, the Child
OF Elkanah.

Huldah, child of Elkanah,
Huldah, child of the chosen.

Sings of her flight from the grave ;
Grave in the mother of rivers,
Mother and river of life,
Flowing from lands of the sun.
Feeding the lands of the Pharaohs
With palm trees, olives and grain.

Huldah, child of Elkanah,
Huldah, child of the chosen,
Obeying the will of Him,
The Mighty One of Israel,
Lived in the courts of the king
Whose power, centred in Rome,
Extends to the ends of earth.

A king who saved her from shame,
Made her a prince of his house,
His comrade by land and sea,
His Hght in the days of gloom,
His counsellor, guide and friend.

He, the great king of the earth,
Stood on the footstool of death.
The river of Egypt below
Ready to swallow him up.

As one trampling its glory.
Its rider but not its Lord ;
His foot, his feet, in the grave.
Grave of the river of life !

Huldah, child of Elkanah,
Huldah, child of the chosen.
Casting her life from the scale
Into the mother of rivers ;
Saving the Caesar from death.
Floating away with the stream.

Stream of the river of life,
Reaching a bend of the land,
Kneels on the Senate shore,
Asking the God of her race,
God of her Fathers of old.
What she is saved to perform
For the glory of his name.

Hnldah, child of Elkanah,
Huldah, child of the chosen,
Hears from the Heav'n of Heavens ;
Hears, like the holy Moses,
Kneeling in self-same place,

The voice, the voice of the Lord
Descending out of the cloud :
The voice, the word of the Lord 1

" Huldah, child of Elkanah,
Huldah, child of the chosen.
Cast off the garments of man.
Put on the garments of white,
Garments of woman's attire.
Hid in the tower of Migdol,
On the highway to the land,
Land of my people, Israel.

" Huldah, child of Elkanah,
Huldah, child of the chosen,
Go as my spirit shall lead thee.
Go as my hand shall feed thee,
Do as my people shall need thee
Under the word of the Lord."

Huldah, child of Elkanah,
HuldaJi, child of the chosen.

Treasured the words in her heart,
Did as the Lord had told her ;
Wandered the wilderness,
Wandered through hail and wind.
Wandered through foes of beasts,
Wandered through foes of men,
Wandered through Canaan,
Wandered through Galilee
To Either, home of the free.

Huldah, child of Elkanah,
Huldah, child of the chosen,
Ready to slay or be slain.
Sings to sound of the cymbals :
Caesar is paid by his life,
Huldah is free for the war ; ^

Waiting for him who shall come
Hither to Either ! Messiah !
Hither 1 The Son of a Star.'

It is difficult to describe the stages of
rapt enthusiasm which the congregation that
accompanies Huldah express as they make
what may be called a triumphal entry into
the school of Either lying to the north of the
Sea of Galilee. At each stanza Huldah rests,
repeating the stanza if it seems to her not to
be understood. Between each stanza, moreover,
she clangs the cymbals more vigorously,
and the people, led by Elkanah, sing out in rapture
the loud and joyous Alleluia. Elkanah

is wild with frenzy. Lame no longer, he
dances with delight, and a miracle is believed
again to have been wrought in him. It is the
miracle of exultation after years of oppression.

Caesar with all his legions is at our feet.
Caesar falls ! The Lord God Omnipotent
reigned ! Alleluia ! Alleluia ! '

Tinnius Eufus never made a greater mistake
than when he left the school of Either a
school without a Eoman garrison.

The quick eye of Akiba detects, the moment
he enters Either, the admirable way in
which all things are bestowed. The schools
are fortified and the synagogue itself is a
fortification ; but arms, weapons of offence and
defence, earthworks, forts, and a good tower
for observation, are still wanted for warlike
purposes, and much is wanted for beauty.

What has been accomplished so far is the
work of Huldah, who has been trained in the
best military training of the world. Give her
the same legions, and she is a match for the
great Severus himself

As it is, she will have to deal with untrained

Jews, who have never tasted war.
She will have to turn enthusiasm into discipline,
one of the hardest of human problems.


She will have another trouble which she
duly recognises, and which is ever a solemn
trouble in the organisation of revolt for freedom.


In a conquered people there always exists
a small number of men who are disinclined to
move. A selfish regard for their own comfort
or safety actuates this minority. A selfish
admiration of successful power, and a hope
to have a part in ruling by submission to a
superior force, are inducements to remain in
amity even with the oppressor. This causes
a weakness in the ranks of the rebellious majority;
for some one of the failing, unsympathetic
band is sure to turn traitor, to reveal
plans, to expose dangers, to denounce conspirators.


Akiba has foreseen this danger in regard
to Either of Galilee. Not a man is here who
is not sworn and trusty ; but he is not so sure
of all who are within the bounds of the Roman
garrisons in Palestine.

VOL. II. V

On these and many other points Huldah
and Akiba hold what may now fairly be
called councils of war in the school of Either,
after the excitement is over. Elkanah drops
into his true place. He is an enthusiast who
must be kept in control, but he is, nevertheless,
shrewd and keen as a bird of prey in his
observation. They call him the eagle on the
watch-tower.

They are of one mind, that for the present
Elkanah and Huldah shall remain secluded at
Either in Galilee. Here an army of students
shall be drilled, here the natural fortifications
shall be still more improved, and here arrangements
for a great city, the new Jerusalem,
shall be made ready for the reception and
home of the deliverer.

Meantime Akiba himself shall return to
Joppa to receive Simeon the deliverer, for
whom, as Huldah knows, the faithful Eli has
been sent, and who is sure to come.

Simeon shall be brought to Either, to find
an invincible army of Zion ; he shall raise in
Either the standard of freedom ; he shall be
crowned in Either King of Israel and Judah
with all the solemnity of the crowning of Saul,

David and Solomon ; lie shall march out of
Either from victory to victory ; he shall rebuild
the Holy Place; and he shall reign in
righteousness, a star out of Jacob, a sceptre
out of Israel.

Huldah, the child of the chosen, remains
in her place. She has passed through the fire
of doubt, and remains in her place. To her,
unwittingly, Hadrian is paying divine honours,
while she for him is forging war to the death.
No, not for him, but for his power. Towards
him, personally, she feels a friendship time will
never extinguish ; she pities his afflictions, and
she experiences sincerest gratitude for all his
kind protection and Imperial favour. But,
as the heavenly voice has told her, she, in
return, has saved his life at the risk of her
own ; he is nobly repaid, and now her people
are her first care.

This is her invariable argument, firm as a
rock, deep rooted, and fixed on something
still firmer.

For beneath the outward argument is
another from the woman's inner nature, the
hope that the one and only love she ever felt
from the bottom of her heart, love surpassing

that for Elkanah and all the world beside,
may one day be requited.

She prays not for the first place in the
glory that is sure to come, but after the king
shall be proclaimed, and when his throne is
secure ; when he has brought liberty to Israel
and has made conquering peace with Hadrian,
shall not she, who has done so much to bring
about such splendour of victory, shall not she
share the throne with the victor, his queen, his
lover, his faithful wife unto death ?

Sublimely uplifted by the hope that such
shall be her rich reward ; filled with bright and
holy presages of what she will do when those
hopes are realised ; seeing in her noble forecast
the temple she will help to raise ; listening
with inspired hearing for the triumphant
shouts that shall declare the Temple gates
opened for the elect before the living earth
was born or the sons of God sought the
daughters of men ; emboldened to believe that
her children and her children's children shall
sit on the throne of David ; charged with
these exalted aspirations, she, Huldah, with
more than human self-control, still binds herself
first and foremost to the horns of the altar
of faith.

Not until every step of final victory has
been trodden, every sacrifice made, every
sacrifice justified, will Huldah, the child of
Elkanah, will Huldah, the child of the chosen,
make her desires known to any one save to
Him ' who pondered the heart, keeper the
soul, and rend ere th to every one according to
the works that are performed in His name
and for His kingdom.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PniNTKD BT

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

OF Thun
Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sonofstarromance03rich

SON OF A State

VOL. III.

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

SON OF A State

A ROMANCE OF THE SECOND CENTURY

BY

Benjamin Wed RICHARDSON

IN There VOLUMES

VOL. m.

Ficta voluptas causa sii proxima veris ' — Thor.

LONDON
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.

AND NEW YORK : 15 EAST 16th STREET



All rights reserve

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

Chapter sage

I. THE FEAST OF THE DEW 1

II. THE FIRST OF THE SLAIN . . . .18

III. UNTIIi SHILOH COME 38

IV. THE JOURNEY OF Boadicea . 49
V. THE BATTLE OF BETHULIA . . , . 63

VI. THE GREAT SACRIFICE 82

VII. BEHOLD YOUR KING ! 107

VIII. PEACE AND BEAUTY 120

IX. RECALLED TO ARMS 138

X. THE Reign OF SIMEON . . . .157

XI. THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL . . . . 175

XII. THE TRUCE OF VICTORY 201

XIII. A HAND OF IRON 230

XIV. AS GOLD IS TRIED 243

XV. THE HOLOCAUST . . . . . • 269

XVI. SO HIGH, SO LOW 282

XVII. THE KING OF SLAVES 292

CHAPTEE I.

THE FEAST OF THE DEW.

Akiba returns to Joppa.

Attended by a few of his attached students,
without the sigh test display or announcement,
he enters the place at the time of sunset, and
proceeds straight to the synagogue, to speak to
the people who, night by night, have met
together awaiting his return.

His communion with them is very short,
although they rejoice truly at his presence ; for
without Akiba they are as sheep having no
shepherd.

The short ceremony of the service over, he
is back in his study overlooking the Great Sea,

VOL. III. 13

and is speedily at this books again, as though
he had never left them.

The dear, the silent books are ever ready
at his command, friends who never quarrel,
never weary, never speak idly.

Servien knows of Akiba's return, for Akiba,
with due respect, has sent a messenger, quietly,
before him to inform the Eoman governor
and Lucilla of the fact that he is near to Joppa
on his way home.

Once again in the dead of the night
Servien, on his rounds, is at the door of the
student, and once again receives a courteous
and friendly greeting.

With much pleasure Akiba hears that
during his absence the students of the school
have conducted themselves in the most exemplary
manner. Servien has had no occasion to
use any kind of precaution. He has visited
the schools many times with Lucilla, and has
received from the scholars a marked courtesy
and respect which he will always remember.

Servien, in turn, listens to the report of
his host and the good account of the schools
which have been visited elsewhere ; and
everything, on the surface, seems satisfactory.

Yet the two men know that they are fencing
one with the other, and that the merest change
may precipitate them into foes ready on each
side to die for their own cause.

Neither pretends to conceal the wish that
the terms of the edict submitted for the
approval of the Emperor were carried out ;
neither conceals that between Jew and Eoman
dissensions grow deeper ; and both admit that
Tinnius Eufus is not the man for the occasion
which now presents itself.

Servien is in mystery. He hopes that some
word weill drop by which he may draw out
whether Akiba has any enthusiasm respecting
the advent of the new Messiah whom the Jews
have so long expected.

Unable to discern by any secret or diplomatic
method what he is dying to know, the
honest Servien follows his own blunt yet
straight course, by suddenly putting the
question in the plainest terms.

They tell me, learned Akiba, that your
people expect the advent of some great mana
demi-god, a god who shall come in royal
majesty, shall lead them to signal victories,
place them iu a position to rule all the cartload

bring about a state in which there shall
be neither war nor pestilence, nor famine, nor
rich, nor poor. Is it so ? '

'Nay, brave Servien, that is the latest
forecast of your own immortal poet prophet.
Our prophets, truly, have in the old time
foretold such a ruler and such a happy reign,
but the idea was well-nigh forgotten until your
own grand poet revived it.'

And taking down from a shelf near him
a volume of the renowned Virgil, the skilful
Eabbi reads to the Governor of Joppa, with
entrancing sweetness, the exquisite fourth
eclogue, the Pollio, in which the long-expected
chill, who shall bring a world of
universal peace and happiness, is so clearly
foreshadowed.

^ This,' continued Akiba, ' is read as freely
in our schools as in yours. It compares with the
words of our second Isaiah, and doubtless fills
the souls of our scholars with as rich a fervour
as it does those of the Athenian, Alexandrian,
and Eoman academies. But is it not, after all,
what the philosophers call abstract ; an ideal,
noble, generous, profound, yet far, far away
from the practical life of our generation ? '

I confess,' admits Servien. ' I knew not
that a Eoman author had filled the mind of
youth with such a dream ; ' and, in his simple
heart, he repents that he has raised or roused
a suspicion which might be interpreted as
conveying a doubt mentioned in ignorance,
and possibly a false alarm, unworthy of his
character and probity.

Feeling the dilemma Servien hesitates to say
more. He determines in his own mind that he
will think the matter over, speak upon it with
Lucilla, and more carefully peruse the information
on which his questioning is founded.

In this temper he takes his leave, but he is
not satisfied, and the more he ponders the more
serious is his dissatisfaction.

Moreover, when everything is known, there
is good reason for his unhappy state of
doubt.

He has just become worried with two new
cares in a life of constant care. He has received
a command from Eufus, which he must
obey, to send half the forces he retains at
Joppa to Jerusalem, by which he is left in a
position absolutely critical should any uprising
occur in the Jewish schools. He has had also

a letter or communication from the astute
Severus of Britain warning him of a rumour
that a Jew who was once in Britain, but is now
somewhere at large, is credited with being the
long-expected Messiah of the Jews, and may
possibly find his way into Palestine, by Joppa,
at any time or season when his advent is most
desirable for the purpose for which it is held
in view, namely, the starting of an insurrection,
in which every Jew will flock to his rebel
standard with an enthusiasm calculated to
make even an unarmed force dangerous to the
rule of the Emperor on Jewish soil.

The opportunity lost for getting the
desired information, Servien, like all men of
his nature, not without many touches of
chagrin, remains half-content, in the hope that
all Avill yet be well ; that Severus, whom he
does not know personally, is an alarmist, and
that the force which still is with him, a force
of veteran soldiers, will be amply sufficient to
hold its own against any number of unarmed
boys, however wilful or desperate they may
become.

A period of religious festival amongst
the Jewish communities occurs soon after the

return of Akiba, and that, as Servien trusts,
will be an excellent diversion for them until
the time comes when new troops will arrive
at Joppa, or old troops be back to it.

He communicates all his ideas to Eufus,
prays for reinforcements, and waits.

To keep the Jews in good temper he is
specially considerate to them, and conveys, asa
point of unusual concession, that he, with
Lucilla and some others of his house, will
attend one of the grand ceremonies in the
synagogue, to hear a discourse from the chief
of the schools.

The day chosen is that set apart for the
solemn celebration of the ' Feast of the Dew,'
a day of great sanctity and supplication.

The Imperial party enters the synagogue
with the rest of the worshippers. Lucilla
takes her seat on one side with the women,
Servien and his suite are placed opposite with
the men.

Servien understands not one word of a
service conducted in the Hebraic tongue, a
tongue which even Lucilla could never teach
him. But he nevertheless listens to it closely.

The feast is in remembrance of that point

of the sojourn of the children of Israel in the
wilderness after their flight from Egypt, when,
during great privations, they went out to find
in rich abundance what they called ' manna,'
angels' food, which was left on the earth as the
dew went up, and on which for forty days they
fed ere they came unto the borders of the
land of Canaan.

In obedience to the original command of
Moses, an omer, or tenth part of an ephah, of
manna is solemnly laid up before the Testimony,
before the altar, on the right of which,
habited in the robes of the high priest, stands
the renowned scholar who has entered Paradise
and lived.

In the central dais of the synagogue, facing
the altar, the white robed singers of Israel
appear.

They enter from behind, and proceed
forward to a desk on which the book of the
Everlasting Word lies unopened.

Opening reverently this holy book the
chief singer sings the seventy-eighth psalm of
David, commencing with the words : —

Give ear, my people, to my law ;
Incline your ears to the words of my mouth ; '

The song is in a tone so penetrating and commanding
that Servien himself unwittingly
leans forward with all the congregation, as if
he were indeed intently waiting for some unearthly
revelation he is bound to receive and
acknowledge.

He listens, with the rest, to the narrative
which follows, hiding with them his face in
his hands as the sins of Israel are related, even
when their Lord ' rained down manna upon
them, gave them the corn of heaven, angels'
food ; rained also flesh upon them as dust, and
feathered fowls like as the sands of the sea.'

He hastens with the rest until, with them,
his knees tremble under him as the list of
punishments is whispered forth ; ' when the
people were given over to the sword ; when
the fire consumed the young men, and the
maidens were not given in marriage ; when
the priests fell and the widows made no
lamentation.'

He listens with the rest as the voice of the
singer, like the voice of an angel, thunders
forth :—

Then the Lord awaked Hke one out of sleep,

And like a mighty man that shouted by reason of wine ; '

and, perfectly spell-bound, joins in the divine
exultation at the declaration of the glory which
followed upon ' the building of the Sanctuary
like high palaces, and the choice of David
out of the sheepfolds to feed Jacob his people,
and Israel his inheritance.'

In a kind of trance the ears of Servien
are confused by the succeeding silence, but
his eyes now take up the ceremony. The
male Levite, barefooted, all without spot or
blemish, advance, bearing over their heads
a white linen scarf, singing before the altar
the song of the Levite, ministering before the
tabernacle of witness as having the charge
of all the sanctuary, and bearing the rolls of
the commandments round the synagogue in
the face of the congregation.

Again the ear of the Governor of Joppa is
entranced by words spoken, not sung, and yet
musical as music itself.

Akiba ascends to the raised pillar on the
left of the altar and discourses to his people.

What is it he tells them ?

Servien can construe no word, and yet
he feels as if he knew every syllable, as well as

they who absorb every utterance. Akiba
speaks from a passage of one of the prophets
of old called Micah. It is a question by that
prophet which is put for answer : —

my people, what have I done unto thee 1
And wherein have I wearied thee 1
Testify against me.'

He expounds the question, fearing no one.
Through him the prophet speaks. He is for
the moment micah. He pours forth the vials
of wrath and indignation : he reasons, he
expostulates. ' He is full of power, of judgment,
and of might to declare unto Jacob his
transgression and to Israel his sin.'

The condemnation is over ; the tone
changes to promise. The last days are pourtrayed.
The Sanctuary is to be exalted above
the hills, the people are to flow into it, and
the kingdom is to come to the daughter of
Jerusalem,

A command, enigmatically spoken, yet
meaning much, follows. Lucilla listens and
wonders. Is Servien right in his surmise, oris
it all parable ?

Gather thyself in troops, daughter of troops.'

What does it mean ? The prophet says it,
no doubt, but why emphasise the saying as if
it were real and present ? Who is symbolised
as he declaims ?

^ But tho, Bethlehem Ephratah,
Though thou be little among the thousands of Judah,
Yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me
That is to be ruler in Israel ;

Whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting.

A young lion among the flocks of sheep :
Who, if he go through, both breadth down,
And heareth in pieces, and none can deliver.'

The discourse finished, the Elders of the
people ascend the dais to declare the offerings
of the rich to the poor and the needy.

Then Akiba pronounces the benediction : —

'■ The Lord bless thee and keep thee :

The Lord make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious

unto thee :
The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, and give

thee peace.'

And the congregation disperses, each one
to his place.

Lucilla, like a faithful wife, explains to
Servien all she has heard and understood.

What is there in it, when he understands it,
that fills him with fear ?

He knows not what it is, yet it lies on his
heart. He recals Fortunatus and the warning
of that observing traveller : ' Beware of Akiba I
He rests not, neither doth he sleep

He must issue a new order at eventide
to his lieutenant to put a double watch
near the Pharos and by the shore, and to let
nothing land that has not been fully explored.

Why can he himself not sleep ? Why,
sweet Lucilla, canst thou not retain him near
to thee and keep his wearied eyes away from
that rocky treacherous coast and deceitful
sea?

This she cannot do, but there is something
she can do. She can rise and follow him so
worn and anxious, take his arm as watch es
by the shore and keep him company.

Alas, for thee, thou faithful wife of the
Governor of Joppa, thou true daughter of
Israel ! Alas, for thee I Thou art as golden
grain between the crush of two revolving
deaths. Thou canst not serve thy husband
and Eome through him, and also save thy
kindred and thy people !

Arise ye and depart ; for this is not your rest ;
Because it is polluted, it shall destroy you, even with a
sore destruction.'

So to her troubled mind doth Micah callas
she and Servien wander, lover like, along
the treacherous shore.

They pass the schools of Akiba, moving
between them and the sea. They lift up their
eyes to the window of that ardent, watchful
student. There is no light there. Akiba, worn
by the exertions of the day, has gone to rest
earlier than is his wont.

How quiet the night ! Who would suppose,
dear Servien, that so many youths should
be enclosed in these walls ; a city of youth, in
such deathly silence ? Sleep is not death to the
sleeper, but how like it to those who watch ! '

Let us wander further by the sea.'

And hand in hand, still lover-like, they walk
some five or six hundred paces, listening to the
breath of the air on the surface of the ocean.

They talk over the early days of their
career, their first knowledge of each other,
their first love, their first exchanges of word
and troth never sorrowed for, never for a
moment regretted.

They have ascended to the rock on a Httle
height, where Andromeda, chained for the sea
monster, was said to have been rescued by
Perseus ; they have descended on the other
side, and now they have ascended another Httie
height, higher than the first and commanding
over it a view of the schools by the shore.

As they return a strange sight meets their
eyes. In front of the schools, at the point of the
harbour of Sabina, close by the landing-place,
there lies a huge monster which moves with
the waters. On the back of ifc stand, as it seems
to them, two men, one of gigantic height, the
other tall but not a giant, and wearing a bright
gem or diadem on his brow or headpiece.

The old moon, the moon in its last quarter,
appearing lazily in the sky, gives them just
sufficient light to take in the scene while the
sea sheds a pale luminous radiance, which
adds to the light of the moon and intensifies
the lustre.

The two men apparently stand still, as if
they were looking at some spot on which toland,
or for some one on the shore who waits
for them.

Servien and Lucilla hasten down the hill,

and climb the next ascent, expecting, at the
top of it, to verify what they have seen.

But lo I when they reach the top of the
second hill, although only a few minutes can
have passed, the men are gone and the monster
also !

They hasten along the path to the harbour
opposite the schools, and look in all directions
and listen for every sound.

Not a sight, not a sound. But this they
do observe as they look out seaward. They
observe a line of the luminous water moving
in rippling waves and extending further and
further away, as if some huge thing under
the water were ploughing its course into the
distant west.

I have read,' says Lucilla, ' of the great
Leviathan that lives in the ocean ; surely this
was he.'

But the men, Lucilla ; the men, the men ;
the two men on the back of the monster ; what
of them ? '

Shadows ! '

No, not shadows ; the one wore a diadem.
That was no shadow.'

Shall we raise Akiba and the schools ? '

'Twere folly. 'Twould only bring discredit
on our judgment. Even if the men entered
into that silent place, how could we find them ?
If they have friends there they are concealed,
and our search at this moment were in vain.'

We will return and keep watch.'

They reach their home. Lucilla retires to
her couch. Servien is too disturbed to sleep.
He waits for the dawn.

Whilst he waits he determines what he
will do. He will put Akiba to the test. He
will surround the schools with a guard and he
will send a message to Akiba demanding the
men who entered the schools before the break
of day.

If the men did enter, Akiba will be thrown
off his guard by the promptitude of the discovery.
If they did not, no harm can be done
when so clear an explanation can be given
for the cause of the inquiry.

And so resolved, Servien goes forth to
arrange for the task. His best sentinels are
planted on all sides, to see that no one escapes
by sea or land. His officers take their orders,
and the soldier waits for the sun.

VOL. HI. c

CHAPTEE II.

THE FIRST OF THE SLAI]S\

Akiba and the scholars of his school at Joppa
awake to a new sensation.

Hostilities have commenced in earnest.
Around the schools a cordon of Eoman soldiers
has been formed before daybreak.

In the centre, opposite to the main building,
and within fifty yards of the schools, the
standard of Eome is erected. The schools
are hemmed in on every side. There is no
escape save by the sea.

With the first rays of the sun a messenger
waits at the entrance of the schools, bearing a
despatch from the governor :

Servien, Governor of Joppa, to Akiba, Chief of
THE Jewish Schools.

In the name of Caesar, Servien demands the two
persons who in the third watch of the night landed by
the harbour of Sabina and entered the residence of
Akiba.

Any refusal to this demand wiH be followed by the
immediate occupation of the schools by the soldiery, who
lie ready for entrance.

Ave C^sar !

The reply is more laconic and resolute
than the message :

Akiba, Sword-bearer of Simeon, The Son of a Star 1
TO Servien, Commander of the Romans in Joppa.

Let the soldiers of Rome approach nearer to the
schools at their peril.

In the name of Simeon, known as The Son of a Star,
the son of Jacob and Saviour of Israel.

Akiba !

Servien reads the message with absolute
amazement.

Akiba dare the power of Eome ! the
threatened Messiah within the cast of a stone
from a catapult ! Not a moment must be lost.
Let the trumpets give the command that the
soldiers march in on all sides and drive the
rebels, as Cestius did, into the great ocean.

Let none escape.

The answer to the cry of the trumpets is
the raising of the standard of the Lion of
Judah from a temporarily fortified turret in
the centre of the buildings, followed by the
appearance on the roofs of scholars covering

c 2

every available point and singing defiance in
the boldest and wildest tones.

A body of Eoman archers is called to the
front. The archers have armed themselves
with new bows from the armoury, bows made
by the scholars themselves.

The knaves,' says Servien, ' shall be killed
with their own darts.'

By mighty Mars ! there is not a bow will
carry an arrow near to the schools even on
the first discharge.

Oh, Fortunatus ! Fortunatus ! well might-est
thou say that Akiba was matchless in
craft !

How foolish that the soldiers who have
been sent to Eufus should have carried away
the old and tried arms.

Who could have thought it, that these
helpless boys should have fooled the
Governor of Joppa and the old soldiers of
Eome!

It is no time to reason.

Throw down the bows, seize the javelins,
and with javelins, scaling ladders and shields
mount the buildings and cast the rebels down.'

It is easier ordered than performed. The

soldiers, perfectly taken aback by the failure
of the bowmen, seize the javelins to test them
on the earth.

The sharp blades, so shining and beautiful,
bend into hideous shapes on the pressure upon
the ground. The swords ! the swords do the
same.

The new weapons one and all are worthless.


A well-directed missile is falling upon the
head of one of the centurions. He raises his
shield to receive it, the missile glides over the
shield, shattering itself on the breastplate of
the man and leaving him covered with a liquid
which in a few moments bursts into flame and
emits a deadly fume or smoke that suffocates
him.

The first dead man in the affray, and by a
death hitherto unknown in Eoman war.

In a moment all will be panic and flight.

Not yet ! not yet !

Servien is himself a host ; he is mounted
on his favourite charger, a swift bold steed,
carrying a bolder rider. He puts himself
between his men and the schools ; he gallops
the whole half-circle like a man infuriated.

March forward and scale the walls in the
name of C^sar ! '

As he rallies his men not another missile is
cast ; but he hears the voices of the Jewish
youth, voices of laughter at his fury, as of
boys at play with a fool.

He boils with rage, yet his courage never
wavers.

Forward, and scale the walls and cast the
rebels into the sea ! '

Another voice he knows too well reaches
him ; it is a musical voice, like the blast of a
clarion.

Send back thy wife ; why should she share
in thy disaster ? '

He turns round to discover the ever-faithful
Lucilla, not by his side, but in the very
centre of extremest danger, bearing a white
banner of truce and trying to speak to the
enemy.

A woman's impulse, a woman's perception,
a woman's Wisdom, a woman's love guides her.

Lucilla has forecast more correctly than
Servien. She knows there is but a third of
a legion left ; she knows that many of these
are young soldiers, sent to Joppa to be trained

under her husband's famous trading skill ;
and she knows also, — for does not her heart
throb tumultuously in accord, — that now that
the long-expected Saviour of Israel is declared
by the most learned and holy of all his race,
Jewish enthusiasm is at its height, death nowhere,
and the Lord of Hosts at hand.

Not one of those young Jews is there who
is not ready and proud to lay down his life
for the son of the Star of Jacob.

So she casts herself into the breach. It is
a desperate chance, but it may succeed. If
she can get a few words spoken in truce between
Servien and Akiba some terms may be
arranged and time, at any rate, may be gained.
Some wise counsel may follow, for Akiba of
all men is a man of peace.

She hears clearly his ringing voice.

Send back thy wife ; why should she
share in thy disaster ? '

She is about to speak, but it is too late ; the
troops on foot are marching boldly to the
walls of the schools, and a body of youthful
cavalry is backing them up from behind, and
deploying around them in a semicircle.

In a moment Servien, pale and breathless,

is by her side, his body stooping, his arm
hound her, half-dragging her, half-carrying
lier through a passage of soldiers into the
rear.

Infatuated woman, yet life of my life, fly
to thy home and leave these creatures to me ! '
he gasps forth as they reach the rear.

A start, an awful cry, a blinding smoke,
a gleam of light as if every man and horse
were a pillar of smoke and fire ; as if fire itself
were being rained from heaven.

The Eoman soldiers have approached so
near to the walls of the schools that they
have come within arm-shot of the besieged,
so that a sling which had previously been
used to hurl the globe of fire is no longer
necessary.

For now, from hundreds of strong and
desperate hands, the balls of crystal which
burst into flame wherever they strike and
break, pour literally like hail on the shields,
helmets, and breastplates of the astounded
Eomans, who nevertheless get nearer and
nearer to the walls with true Eoman courage
and zeal.

Fly, infatuated, beloved Lucilla, fly ! thy

peace-offering is too late. Now the way is clear,
fly I I will meet thee at home when all is over.'

When all is over ! When all is over !

She sees, indeed, it is all over in so far asher
mission is concerned, and implanting an
impassioned kiss on the hand of her husband,
she obeys his command.

She returns towards home, he back towards
the field of strife.

Fool ! ' he cries, ' fool that I was, not to
detect this artifice of Greek fire ! '

As he hastens to the front he sees,
through the dense fumes, that his men are
still holding their own. If they can only hold
on until the enemy have exhausted their stores
from the infernal gods all are at his mercy,
and to him will have fallen the glory of
capturing for C^sar the pest of the world.

'They shall burn in their own furnace or
drown at sea, whichever they like best.'

Let the horsemen spread out in a wide
circle, so as to hedge in all from any possible
escape.'

The horsemen obey the order with alacrity
and excellent discipline, but as they come
nearer to the schools, the very ground takes

fire under the feet of their horses, for the feet
of the horses are crushing a soil sown with the
damnable crystals yielding the fire and smoke.

It is more than can be borne by any
discipline ; the horses are maddened, and
only the first part of the order ' Retreat and
re-form ! ' is heard.

The order is hardly wanted, for the fire
bites ; the horses are the masters, and their
terrors carry them away like the wind.

Horses and men. in panic, fly ! In fire and
smoke they fly, seeing not each other, much
less a solitary human being flying also before
them.

Lucilla has obeyed her husband, but
lingering still in the rear, so as to be near him
should harm come to him, she is soon in the
very heart of the danger. A crescent-shaped
cloud of fire, dense fumes of smoke, thunder of
horses' feet and shouts of men are surrounding
her closely, are upon her 1

When it is all over Servien will know.
She is certain that escape is hopeless. She
sinks on her knees, raises her face to heaven,
and clasping her hands utters the words her
mother taught her :

Though thou slay me, yet will I trust in thee.
Thou also shalt be my salvation.'

The words die with the lips that speak
them. The hurricane of a crowd of horsemen
on fire passes over her, knowing nothing that
it hath done. It is followed by another crowd
of men on foot equally panic-stricken. It is
followed by a third crowd of youthful victors,
whose yells of victory and revenge are as
appalling as the fire. Nothing can restrain
them. They fight and slay with everything
they can seize ; those who cannot pick up the
arms which the fugitives cast away, stab at
the flying foe with the large stylus used for
writing.

To the flying foe these youths are as four to
one ; they are swift of foot, they are under no
panic ; they cast still, with merciless skill, the
crystals of fire on which the flying men tread ;
they drive the fugitives madly through their
own encampments on to the ramparts leading
into the plain, down which men on horse and
men on foot mix and faU together, receiving
from the conquerors above, who by a strict
command rest on the ramparts, showers of
stones and crystals of fire. .

Down the steep, almost perpendicular
earthwork which Eoman skill has constructed,
the race to death is indeed appalling. The
riders fall from their horses, the horses fall
and roll down over the men or gallop furiously
crosswise, or even try to clamber back, adding
intensely to the confusion. The foot soldiers,
encumbered by their armour, and still assailed
from above by showers of stones gathered
easily from the catapult heaps in the camp,
roll back and slide helplessly, shattered and
shivered, into the deep fosse below, until their
bodies make a bridge over which they who
remain latest cross, and in which those who
are slain find, a few hours later, with many
more, a grave dug ready for them.

The rout is complete of complete, and such
of the remnant of the Eoman legion as remains
is making its way, in hasty flight, towards
Jerusalem ; a hopeless crew, spreading consternation
all around and raising the ardent
enthusiasm of every Jew by the sight presented
and the story told, of the advent of the
Messiah in clouds of fire.

Truly the Son of a Star has descended on
Palestine in glory.

The mere name of Son of a Star is now
worth a legion of men.

In ridicule of Caesar the Jews everywhere,
to whom the news of the first great victory has
been told, hail Simeon as a king, though yet
uncrowned.

Ave Simeon ! Ave ' The Son of a Star ! ' this
is amongst them the only Ave now.

The first steps in commemoration of this
victory at Joppa are dignified and humane
as well as wise, for Akiba still remains master
of the position.

The order issued by the conquerors is that
the wounded shall be brought in and the
dead buried. There are not many found
dead until the fosse on the other side of the
Eoman camp is reached ; for panic, not actual
slaughter, caused the defeat of the Eomans.
The fire rained down by the Jews was little
destructive, and a few minutes of composed
order would easily have overcome all danger
from that cause. Still, what wounded there
are are brought in with the utmost tenderness
and an unusual degree of skill is expended
upon them by scholars trained to know the
art and mystery of healing.

In like manner those who are lying in or
near the fosse, but who are not dead, are
carried back to the camp and treated there ;
whilst all the dead, with one single exception,
are conveyed to the fosse and, laid with their
comrades, are finally covered over with earth ;
but every helmet and every piece of reliable
armour is carefully saved.

All the dead are buried in the great heap
of dead in the deep fosse except one. The
news brought to Akiba that the body of a
woman has been discovered overwhelms him
with grief and dismay. He hastens to the
spot where this body is, and finds that what he
suspected and feared is too true.

Lucilla is the victim. The first woman
slain by or for The Son of a Star.

Lucilla is still on her knees. Whether,
after beg trampled down, she rose again to
her knees by an almost superhuman efibrt, or
whether she died from overwhelming shock in
the position in which she is found, cannot be
told. All that can be told is that, cold, rigid
and dead, she still kneels, that her noble face is
still turned heavenward, and that her expression
still conveys the confiding prayer :
Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him.'

Let not a hand touch the body of Lncilla
the dead, but let a guard of honour stand
round her in humble reverence.'

So speaks Akiba, as with breaking heart he
leaves the sad yet beautiful and serene spectacle
of sublime death in order to communicate the
fact to the unfortunate Servien, who has been
captured, and take his direction of what shall
be done.

On his way he waits on Simeon and
requests him to visit the prisoner in company,
to speak to him generously and to give him
his perfect freedom.

They find their unhappy captive in the
extremest exhaustion from loss of blood, but
why they know not, seeing that from no one
of them has he received a wound. He is
reposing on a couch with one of his own
officers in attendance, and with every means
ready for treatment that the most thoughtful
and considerate could devise.

To Akiba, as that learned man comes near,
he gives a subdued recognition, but when
Simeon appears in sight a start, absolutely
convulsive, seizes him with the exclamation :

'Trajan!'

It is true, noble Servien, though I had
never detected it before, the inspired Simeon
does bear a strong likeness to that Imperial
Spaniard, or my memory of him fails me.
Like Trajan, too, he is a brave and generous
enemy. He comes now to thee to tell thee
that, although the force under thy command
is dead or dispersed and thou art a
prisoner, thou art at perfect liberty to report
thyself to Eufus, at Jerusalem, as a free man.
A trusty body-guard shall convey thee to
the holy but defiled city. Choose, therefore,
thine own time for departure.'

It is not the fate, I fear me, which I should
have granted either to him or to thee had our
positions been reversed.*

I acknowledge thy candour, Servien ; had
our fates been reversed he and I had considered
thee merciful in being sent to crucifixion.
But we, servants of a greater God than yours,
love justice, do mercy, and humbly follow his
will, which is that Servien be free.'

I give thy God thanks, Eabbi ! But tell
me, will Lucilla be my companion ? '

The question is asked as if it were an
inquiry in regard to her fate rather than a

doubt as to the permission that she should go
with him.

The hesitation depicted in the face of
Akiba, the sorrow, nay, the tear, tells the poor
prisoner more effectively than any words the
news he has to hear.

I feared, I feared it must be so, my
Luc ila ! But tell me, great Eabbi, tell me the
worst.'

Lucilla sleeps with her fathers. Yet
not by Jewish hands met she her death.
Thine own soldiers killed her in their flight ;
though 'tis fair to them to say they knew it
not.'

I see it all. May I once more look on
her, or is she buried with the slain ? '

Her sacred person, kneeling to the Most
High, is at this moment under a guard that
would die rather than any finger should touch
her. Whatever is thy wish in regard to her
shall be carried out.'

So for the first time speaks the Son of a
Star with the full assent of Akiba

The enfeebled prisoner slowly rises from
the couch.

One favour,' he asks, ' one favour before
VOL. in. D

we go forth. Let me have a scroll, stylus and
seal. I would write a word to Caesar.'

The wish is granted, the materials are
brought. Simeon and Akiba stand aside and
Servien writes.

As he proceeds he once rests, and puts to
Akiba another question.

Learned Eabbi, or Eabbi, which means
learned, knew this Simeon, or Son of a Star, one
Fidelis, a centurion of the Britannic legion ? '

It was Fidelis who carried him to Britain
after the revolt at C^esarea.'

I am answered. And Fidelis, where now
is he?'

He died in Britain, in the camp of Julius
Severus, on the commencement of his hundred
and first year of life,' replies Simeon.

Enough, I am grateful ; ' and assuming a
stoical indifference the writer proceeds with
his task.

The letter is written, signed, sealed and
delivered to Akiba.

You offer me my life, an offer worthy
of your generosity to an out-manoeuvred and
defeated foe. Let this letter take my place ;.
it is my life. I trust you both implicitly that

it shall be delivered to Hadrian unbroken and
in all integrity.'

In the name of the Holy One of Israel it
shall so be,' they both declare.

I am content ; the name is holy and the
promise sacred. Let us now go forth.'

He is so feeble it requires the assistance
of Akiba to raise him to his feet, but once
afoot he is able, by the support of the staff
of a lance, to proceed on his way to the spot
where the scholars in solemn dignity guard
the remains of Lucilla. He speaks no word,
he utters no sigh, and when his eyes fall on
her beautiful face he gives no sign of wonder
or surprise. Only his own face seems filled
with a radiant light while his power to stand
is less sure.

Let me lie down before her knees.'

They lay him down gently as he wishes.

Like a wounded warrior guarding some
priceless treasure he reclines, raising himself a
Httle on his left hand, and grasping his sword
with his right hand, as if ready to spring on
any one who should approach.

See, see ! ' they say ; ' see ! he is sinking
to the earth ! '

d2

Draw back, draw back ! ' No hand hath
touched him, yet his life's blood is flowing
from his side to the ground. 'Touch him not,
touch him not, for he too is dying, is dead.'

The declaration is correct. The noble
wife, the noble soldier sleep together.

What now, Eabbi, what shall we do ? '

She was his, she was ours ; his by law,
ours by faith. As they have died so let them
abide. Build a sepulchre around her, and let
him lie within the door of it with his sword
and spear, still on guard, and in this way
cover them both from the eyes of men.'

And so it is done. In a few hours relay
upon relay of active, youthful, skilful hands
labour over the sepulchre of Servien and
Lucilla his wife. The sepulchre becomes a
mausoleum of noble size, with a dome in
the centre, beneath which Lucilla lies with
Servien within the massive door of stone at
the southern base.

They encase the tomb on its outer surface
with cement, which sets like stone itself They
engrave on the four sides of its base, on one
side the word ' Servien ; ' on the opposite side
Lucilla ; ' on the third ' Joppa ; ' on the fourth

the date — the day, the month, and the year of
the world. Beneath the name of Servien they
place no mark ; but beneath that of Lucilla
they add one holy sign that shall be known so
long as the sepulchre shall last, though it be
to the end of the world.

CHAPTEE m.

UNTIL SHILOH COME.

The exultation of the Jewish people in all
Palestine is unbounded as the news reaches
them that their long-expected Messiah has
come with victory on his wings. It is with
difficulty in every school that the leaders suppress
an instant revolt from Eoman rule, and,
indeed, but for a good-natured and, as he
himself thinks, a crafty act on the part of
Eufus, no authority would prevent a too precipitate
general outbreak.

Eufus is in fear as he hears of the great
events at Joppa. He has always a dread of
Akiba,, a dread which the redoubtable Boadicea
earnestly puts before him at every available
opportunity. The accounts of the affair at
Joppa, which he receives from the fugitives,
are intensified every hour ; his forces are not
strong, and the rumour that a new and fearful

mode of warfare has been invented and successfully
practised by the enemy is causing
demoralisation even amongst the trained
legions of Eome.

In this dilemma Eufus thinks he shall do
best by gaining time and increasing his resources.
He therefore issues a proclamation to
the Jewish people under his rule declaring that
he has despatched a special message to Caesar
asking for the concessions required by the
long-promised edict, and extending in the
meantime the most friendly consideration to
every grievance which may come before him
relating to the hardships to which the people
are subjected.

With much display of form and ceremony
the envoys bearing this message to Caesar are
despatched from Caesarea, and the effect is
quieting to the minds of the people. Akiba
uses the act discreetly. He, too, wants time,
and by his suggestion Simeon also issues an
order suggesting that the people should wait
for the return of the Emperor's decree. Meantime
Joppa remains in the occupation of the
Jews, and good use is made of the opportunity.
The armoury of Servien is admirably utilised.

The new weapons which the Jewish youth had
constructed for Eoman hands are subjected to
a new process which renders them the most
perfect weapons of the world. The armour is
adapted to the breasts and heads and thighs
of the scholars of the schools ; every scholar
is taught the use of the bow and sword and
spear ; and drill from morning till night goes
on uninterruptedly.

Also all the horses which are not hurt or
which can be rendered of service are caught
and provided for, and as many of these useful
and intelligent animals continue for some days
to return to their quarters, Simeon has very
soon a splendid troop of horsemen for his
invincible body-guard. The finest-built and
strongest youths are selected for this exalted
position, and the competition for it is enthusiastic
up to the hilt of jealousy. It demands
all Akiba's skill in order to keep peace between
the rival aspirants to such immortal fame. In
the end, in several instances, lots have to be
drawn before the selection is fully declared.

In the work of the soldier Simeon is foremost.
Not an art in Eoman warfare has
escaped his vigilant eye. He is a swordsman

of swordsmen. With his own hands he
teaches. He fences daily, hourly, with the
members of his body-guard ; he trains them
so that they may extend the teaching. He
instructs the novices how to encamp, how to
strike encampments, and with the aid and
counsel of Akiba he lets the commentaries of
the greatest of the Caesarss, and the works of
Josephus, become the leading school books of
the schools, for copying, reading, exposition,
knowledge.

The rapidity with which a powerful force
is thus organised is one of the most singular
proofs of the power of enthusiasm and faith
that can be recorded. Long before the messengers
bearing the letter from Eufus have
reached Caesar a Jewish legion of the spick and
span of Jewish youth is in existence and is
yearning to take the field. The members of
this legion have no fears. They have a leader
sent to them from on high, declared to them
by the mouth of the holy prophets, The Star
of Jacob, the fighting redeemer of Israel.

Behold, ye youths of Israel and Judah,
behold, Akiba, Akiba the learned, the chief
of the synagogues !

Behold the man who alone of men has
entered Paradise and returned from it safely !

Behold, Akiba, first and last of the high
priests of the chosen people !

Behold that he, Akiba, instructed by
inspired wisdom, has become : —

The sword-bearer of Simeon, the Son of a
Star!

Yes, the first man of all the Jewish race
livings, and one of the first of the dead of that
race, comes down from his high place, as
leader of the Sanhedrin, to be the humble
sword-bearer of Simeon, the Son of a Star.

He cannot himself wield the sword. He
must not wield the sword even of the deliverer ;
but he may carry it.

In this one act he shows that he is the
servant of Him who has sent His servant to
give liberty to His elect.

Dares any one of the elect fail in his duty
with such an example before his eyes ?

Impossible !

There is but one cry.

To your tents, Israel ! '

Long before the messengers have reached
Caesar this cry is too loud and too earnest to
be ignored.

AH is ready for action, save the reason
for action.

The reason is found in a supposed breach
of faith by Eufus the governor.

It is set forth from one end of Palestine to
the other that Eufus, in forwarding his despatch
praying for the edict, asks, nay, implores, also
for an overwhelming and accompanying force
by which he may make the edict respected
when it becomes law.

The statement is true to the letter.
Whether it be founded on a mere shrewd
guess of Akiba, who reads and translates man
as he reads and translates books, or whether
some friend at court has revealed to him the
contents of the despatch, is not known, but
there it stands, a statement keen as an arrow-point
and convincing as a wound.

A Eoman hostage, one of many, is sent to
Eufus from Joppa to ask if the statement be
true or false. Upon that reply the fate of
many hostages seems to hang ; yet he returns
not. Eufus can never return a lie in answer
to a direct question. It is one of his virtues,
among many vices, to scorn a lie. Even in
revolution he adheres to this virtue, and he is

not clever enough to frame an evasion which
Akiba will not see through. What can he do
except ' nothing ' ?

He practises a masterful inactivity. He
detains the hostage and replies not a single
word.

Another hostage is despatched with the
same inquiry.

He is followed by a third.

The result is the same. Eufus is dumb.

The silence is construed, naturally enough,
into duplicity and fear, and the fourth
hostage who enters Jerusalem is the bearer
of the news that ' The Son of a Star ' is taking
the field with a mighty army, and that the
Governor of Palestine must quit the holy city
which his master has defamed, has once made
the home of the false god on the site of the
Temple, and has even cursed with a new and
heathen name.

The threat of the invasion of Jerusalem ia
serious, but is not immediately carried out.
Before this can be done Simeon must have
his own seat of government, he must show
and declare himself to the nation, he must
be the anointed and crowned king.

All these things have been foretold, and
the prophecy must be fulfilled.

Akiba, true to prophecy, gives forth the
prelude to the reign of Simeon, the Son of a
Star.

The sceptre shall not depart from Judah,
Nor a lawgiver from between his feet,
Until Shiloh come ;
And unto him shall the gathering of the people be.'

The gathering of the people is here
named. To Shiloh, where from the days of
Joshua to those of Samuel the tabernacle was
set up, shall the people come and own their
king. So is the passage acutely interpreted.

From Joppa to Shiloh is an easy march,
a shorter march than to Jerusalem, and with
fewer obstacles in the way. In six days'
march the sacred place may be reached, and
the tabernacle be once more established.

The decision arrived at, the work of
removal is quickly carried out. A body of
five thousand men is left in the camp at
Joppa well entrenched and provisioned ; five
thousand, with Simeon and Akiba at their
head, proceed to Shiloh.

They reach Shiloh in safety, but find no

abiding resting-place. Their very success
renders it impossible to remain at Shiloh.
The people flock there by their thousands,
provisions and shelter are scarce and a
Eoman force is coming up from Jerusalem.
If this force should arrive while multitudes of
unarmed and starving men, women, and children
surround the little newly trained army,
the result will be disaster on every side.

Moreover, the prophecy is fulfilled, and no
more is desired. The gathering of the people
has been secured, and the multitudes have
seen him whom they expected. For a proper
season there is erected a tabernacle, and
Simeon is proposed and duly proclaimed the
king elect of Israel and Judah.

In time, when the days of his fasting
and preparation are over and the place of his
government is declared, he will be anointed
and crowned ; the Lord's anointed, the people's
crowned king.

This ceremony of proclamation complete,
the great multitudes are made, with consummate
tact of management, to disperse back to
their homes, singing their songs of joy and
deliverance, whilst Simeon and his forces move

northwards with such order and celerity that
when the Eoman army reaches Shiloh it finds
nothing more than a silent and deserted place,
all the food-produce carried away and the
springs of water sealed up.

Still to the north the victorious soldiers
and scholars travel. They have determined
to make Either, on the north of the Sea of
Gahlee, and which is being prepared for them,
their grand centre and home, their New Jerusalem.


The selection is chosen with true foresight
and skill. Jotapata, a powerful fortress, which
has long been left poorly defended, is near by,
and can be used as it was used once before by
Jewish forces under the command of Josephus.
To the west is Phoenicia, from whence supplies
can be obtained freely ; to the east is the
river Jordan ; and between the royal centre
and the south, from which any large Eoman
army is almost sure to come, is the whole
length of Palestine, soon to be an armed and
fortified land, together with the protecting
Sea of Tiberias or Galilee.

The victors pass on unimpeded. On their
way to the right and the left they establish

forts or castles, and leave in each some trained
bands to do the work of organisation for
defence or offence. The scattered schools
send in their contingents to these local centres,
and the sounds of the anvil and fire-blast
tell that Israel is indeed in arms. There are
soon in Palestine fifty forts or castles preparing
for war.

CHAPTER lY.

THE JOUEJS^EY OF BOADICEA.

TiNNius RuFUS, Governor of Palestine, is in
despair.

Oh ! that he were again in Britain, even
under Julius Severus, or that he, Tinnius,
were ruling Britain, and Severus Palestine.

His troubles are doubled by the rebellious
conduct of Boadicea. After a most serious
domestic engagement, in which that remarkable
woman goes so far as to add physical
threats to passionate tears, she wins her way
for carrying out a project on which she has
set her invincible will.

She insists on having a small escort of
cavalry, under the protection of which she
may scour all Palestine, in order to see, with
her own eyes, what is going on.

The Jews will kill her,' is the argument
of Eufus.

VOL. III. B

« Let them if they like,' is the unanswerable
reply, ' but woe be to the man that does it.'

As usual, Eufus gives way. At all events,
the expedition will yield him temporary relief
from one of his plagues.

Boadicea starts out and scours in real
earnest. It is soon known who she is and
what she is doing, and Akiba, with his subtle
mind, sees his course clearly open.

Boadicea shall become the bearer of the
news of the majesty and might of The Son
of a Star.

Straightway it is stealthily communicated
to all Jews that not a hair of Boadicea's head
is to be touched. She is to go wherever she
likes ; she is to be treated with the utmost
respect ; she is to be supplied with
food, and, if she wishes it, with lodgings and
service.

She refuses to accept either lodgings or
service from anyone, for she has her own tents
and her own attendants ; but she accepts food,
for which she pays ; she encamps everywhere
in peace and quietness ; and she travels from
one border of Palestine to the other in perfect
triumph.

If Eufus could have done it as she does it
all would be well.

Whilst the multitudes are at Shiloh, she
passes by and sees everything. Akiba comes
out to pay to her his respects, is received in
her tent, and leaves her with his blessing.

To Simeon she is not permitted to speak,
and indeed does not ask to speak with him,
but by a fortunate chance, when he, with a
small escort, is riding out magnificently attired,
and wearing a light diadem with a star on his
brow, she and her escort meet him.

She also is splendidly attired.

And, as they meet, reining up their horses
on both sides, so as to pass each other slowly,
she gives Simeon a graceful bend of recognition,
which he with a ravishing smile returns.

She remembers also, afterwards, with
intense pride that when he had passed her he
looked back and bowed and smiled again.

Hating the Koman power with all her
heart, and admiring the handsome Son of a
Star as sincerely, Boadicea is from that momenta
Simeonite of Simonides, as Akiba had foreseen
she would be.

She would have fought with the sword for

LIBRARY

Simeon if she could. As it was, she fought
with a better weapon for such a woman, her
irrepressible tongue.

She will madden Eufus when she returns
with her praises of Simeon, making so fat
and easy a husband and governor as he is, as
insane with jealousy as such a man can be.

From Shiloh she rides northward through
Galilee to the west of the Sea of Galilee,
through Capernaum and on to Either, the
house of liberty.' Her arrival there is foreknown,
and outside the walls a grand encampment
is laid out for her.

She is not permitted into the new city, but a
body of representatives, young and old, headed
by Elkanah, wait upon her and carry her
some treasures of Phoenicia, mere trinkets for
the adornment of her person, of little worth,
but much prized.

From these messengers she hears all about
the great prophetess who has been sent mysteriously
out of the wilderness, and who is working
the most extraordinary miracles for the
reception of Simeon and for his coronation
as king of Israel and Judah. The Lord's
anointed

Without necessity for the least exaggeration
the messengers have sufficient to convey
to her to call forth all her powers of wonder
and admiration.

If they tell the barest truth it is enough to
set her fervid nature aglow.

A mere hollow in the hills, for it were too
much to speak of mountains, a bare and desolate
place has been turned, in a period of time
incredible for its shortness, into what looks to
be an impregnable fortress, filled with active
and thriving people, every one ready to bear
armour bright as silver, and every one ready
for death or victory.'

Women have flocked into the place from
all parts, and have joined with the men in their
desire for combat.

All the people who come out of the city
walls seem young. They sally forth on horseback
or on foot, and make their journeys for
miles around. They have opened one highway
towards Phoenicia on the west, and another
on the north-east towards Mount Sirion and
the sources of the Jordan.

All along rejoicing are going on within
the walls of the city ; the young are beings

given in marriage, and the marriage feast is
of daily occurrence.

So bright and light is the place at all times
that Boadicea declares to her attendants : —

There is no night there.'

And her words, carried into the city, are
accepted as the declaration of the fulfilment
of a prophecy.

She yearns to enter the city, and determines
to stay in her camp until such time as fate
shall ordain for her curiosity to be satisfied.

Meanwhile she is not idle. In company
with her escort she rides the country round,
and observing very acutely, contrives to send
an account of what she discovers to her liege
lord the Governor of Jerusalem. That which
she incites is not very choice Latin, but it is
sufficiently good for her readers to understand
it, and soon Eufus begins to look out for her
despatches with unusual interest, in which
Fortunatus, who has gone down to Jerusalem
from Scythopolis, eagerly shares.

The woman is worth her weight in gold,'
says Fortunatus.

I wish she were the thing as well as the
weight,' returns Eufus, ' for then the Jews

would keep her altogether, treat her respectfully,
and distribute her irrevocably

Better, far better as she is,' returns the
courtly Fortunatus, ' for here she shows herself
of use to Eome.'

The despatch they have been reading is
written by Boadicea after one of her ram-bangs
abroad. She has commenced, as usual,
by an ecstatic admiration of The Son of a Star
Then she has gone into a rhapsody about
the marvellous prophetess who is building and
finishing a new city and Temple. Next she
gives an account of some wedding festivities
which she has witnessed outside the walls of the
city, and which have made her quite jubilant.

Finally, she proceeds to a more prosaic
account, which is far more important. She
tells that the new Jerusalem has been easily
built for three reasons : first, because it is
naturally half built of earth, being in a hollow
with four almost regular walls of earth all
round, and with natural gates at each quarter,
as if it were a Roman camp let into the plain
or sunken below the level of the natural elevation
: secondly, because there was near ita
splendid cedar wood, and within the place

itself the remains of a great bituminous lake,
very deep and full of bitumen : thirdly,
because the students, under the direction of
the prophetess, have learned to erect out of
the cedar wood which they have felled and
cut into blocks, and out of the stones they
have quarried, houses and synagogues and forts
so fast that they can throw up a large building
in a week, the bitumen acting as a ready
cement or mortar, which holds the blocks
together and dries and hardens as if they,
formed one concrete stone.

How strong the forts look,' she remarks,
can only be told by those who have seen them
from the outside. Indeed, we have no catapults
that would destroy them.

Only I think, great Rufus, if thou wert to
come near them and set fire to them they would
soon be as ruddy as thou art.'

This passage Fortunatus thinks so much
of that he makes one of his comprehensive
notes on it, while Eufus smiles, as Servien once
smiled before, at that useful book of commonplace
and common-sense.

One day, at last, Boadicea is rewarded for
11 her waiting and all her pains.

She is returning to her camp as the sun is
setting when, as she conies in sight of the new
Jerusalem, she is struck by a bright object
rising high in the centre of the city. The
rays of the western sun are striking this
object, and are gilding it until it looks like a
fire.

It turns out, as she gets nearer to see it,
to be a dome, as if it were the covering and
completion of some vast pile or temple.

As she rides towards her own small
encampment she is met by a band of horsemen
and horsewomen in white who are chanting
Hosannas, and who are out for a tour of
inspection.

At the head of the riders is their leader,
a woman clad in white and gold, whom all
revere.

The prophetess and founder of the new
city ! None else, and name less.

The two women meet horse to horse, as ii
they were about to engage in combat, but it
is a mere combat of eyes and expression.

Boadicea thinks she knows the face before
her, but is not quite sure. She is too anxious
to hold her own to be too curious. The wife of

the Governor of Palestine must play her part
with dignity.

She would ride on, but the look of the
other face stops not only herself but the very
horse that carries her ; the horse stops and
moves back as though it were enchanted.

Fear not, lady,' cries the enchantress ;
fear not, Boadicea, wife of the Eoman governor
of Jerusalem. We do but come out to
look for the first time at the dome of the
Temple which we have raised to the Almighty
Creator of the earth and Father of Israel.'

And so saying, the prophetess and the
virgins surrounding her, with the men in the
rear, turn round their horses city wards, and
she herself is brought side by side with the
woman she has addressed.

There is no time, and, in fact, no occasion
for ceremony. The two women are at home
at once.

Boadicea admires the dome and the
prophetess ; and Huldah, the child of Elkanah,
is delighted with what she hears as, leisurely,
they ride together towards the city, until they
can hear the clang of the hammers striking
on the dome.

They rest at the encampment of Boadicea
to take grapes and water, for Huldah refuses
the proffered wine.

Wine is for those who have no purpose,
and whose days are numbered.'

The hospitalities over, Boadicea sees her
opportunity. She asks : —

Shall we ever meet again ? '

Certainly. Will not the wife of the Eoman
governor of old Jerusalem, the well-beloved
Boadicea, honour the new city with her
presence ere she departs ? '

Lie will ; tomorrow.'

And so they say farewell until tomorrow.

To-morrow comes, and Boadicea enters
Jerusalem. She alone enters, her train must
wait at the gate. As she crosses the portal
another train, of picked Jewish soldiers, forms
her body-guard.

She rides like a queen amongst them, and
as she rides the youths clap their hands and
smile, for one of them has spoken of her as
the Queen of Sheba.

Why is there this exultation ?

They tell her, and explain who the

Queen of Sheba was, at which she is very
proud.

She traverses the streets laid down in
bitumen and cedar wood. They are like streets
of mosaic. She visits the gorgeous palace built
to receive Simeon the king. She visits the
plain and simple house of Huldah, by the side
of the new Temple, and is received with regal
ceremony.

Together with Huldah she visits the
Temple. It is built after the Temple of
Solomon in most part, with some of the
details of that of Ezekiel, but it differs from
both in being capped with a high and commanding
dome. The odour of the cedar, the
chasten less of the workmanship, the solemnity
of the chambers are overpowering.

They ascend to the gallery that surrounds
the dome, and find the students erecting on the
centre the sacred symbol, the horn of flame.
The ladders are placed so that the two women
may ascend even to the seat of the sacred sign.

The youths in deference descend a little
distance and lie down, changing to the roof,
leaving the two women alone and nearest to
the sky. . ^

Facing the north-east Huldah points out
the heights of Sirion and recites to her visitor
one of the exquisite passages of one of her
poets, as appropriate to the view before them :

How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him
That bringeth good tidings, that published peace •
That bringeth good tidings of good, that published

salvation.
That saith unto Zion, Thy God reigned.*

Then in her inspired manner she points
down to the city at their feet, and from her
prophetic heart once more breathes forth the
triumph which her sublime Divinity has in
store for His people :

Behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a

joys

will rejoice in my Jerusalem, and joy in my people.

And the voice of weeping shall no more be heard in her,

Tutor the voice of crying.

There shall be no more thence an infant of days

Nor an old man that hath not filled his days.'

But Boadicea's heart is full, and she can
bear no more.

Lead me, wonderful woman ! wonderful
prophetess ! wonderful teacher ! lead me as
thou wilt, but take me from this height, for
the glory of thy Lord overpowers me, and I

tremble lest, so near to his dwelling-place, He
should appear and I should die

They descend to the solid earth as two
sisters of light. They approach the gate of
the city where the escort of the visitor waits.
They embrace and they part.

Another day and Boadicea is on her way
back to the old Jerusalem. She reaches it in
safety, and Eufus fears, as usual, her approach.

To his profound astonishment she caresses
him with tender look and smile, and soothes
his troubled fears.

'Boadicea,' he exclaims, 'how art thou
changed ! Thou art gentle as a dove.'

'Would that on the wings of a dove I
could mount again whither I have been and
lead thee with me, Eufus, to hear what I have
heard and see what I have seen.'

CHAPTEE V.

THE BATTLE OF BETHULIA.

As with continuous triumphal march, Simeon
makes his way towards Either, in Northern
Palestine. The Eoman garrisons at feared
and the other stations along the coast of the
Great Sea, to the west of the course he takes,
have enough to do to hold their own in their
fortifications and obtain provisions from the
surrounding districts, the people of which are
inclined to be defiant and obstructive. On the
eastern side the danger is less, for in Scythes
lying between Mount Bilboa and the Jordan,
a large force of tried Eoman veterans is
always encamped, and their commander, Titus
Valerius, is a bold and resolute man, who
might be the saving genius of Eome in Palestine,
did he not make too light of the rebellion.
Valerius has fought under Trap an and has
led his men so often to victory over undisciplined

forces, that he has come to the pitch of
considering himself invincible. Moreover, his
studies of the Jewish people, as he has known
them, has raised in his mind an absolute contempt
for their physical prowess. A parcel of
broken, craftsmen, and herdsmen, what are
they in arms ? They might by some manoeuvre
get away from the simple-minded Servien of
Joppa, who, except as a drill-master and a
brave second or third in command, was no
soldier. They might get over the buffoon
Eufus, whose wife would lead an army far
better than he, but to Titus Valerius, the
leader of the advanced guards of the great
lighting Emperor, such foes were as chaff
before the wind.

With a small escort of cavalry and a
thousand foot, therefore, Titus Valerius
marches forth from Scythopohs to meet the
enemy encamped, as he hears, at Bethulia in
Manasseh, about one-third from the Jordan on
the way south-westward towards the Great
k3ea. The distance is so short, he provides fora
four days' march only, starts at noon of the
first day, reaches the rebel camp on the eve of
the second ere yet the sun has set, and seeing

no important warlike preparation to receive
him, takes his men at once to the opening
of a short but rather deep valley leading np
to a little fort, at the extreme end of which
the white flag, bearing the Star of the Lion
of Judah, defiantly floats.

In his pride Valerius laughs at the sign ashe
points it out to his second in command.

It shall be carried into Eome by this Son
of a Star himself,' is the boast of Valerius.

He leaves the main body of his cavalry at
the entrance of the valley. They are to wait
until the infantry have carried the fort, and
then, winding round, are to pursue the rebels
to the death.

Mere boys, youths, and untrained scholars
in arms, they will fall an easy prey, but spare
them not. Let none escape death except the
Chief and his wise man, Akiba. They two must
go to Eome before they die.'

Following his infantry and attended by
his small body of horsemen, only twelve in
number, but all, like himself, accomplished
masters of the sword, Titus Valerius proceeds
along the valley, ' the Valley of Jehu,' as Akiba
calls it, straight towards the fort.

VOL. III. p

If they hail down fire upon you from the
fort, take no heed of it. It is a feeble flame ;
it might alarm horses, it is nothing to men.
Crush it under your feet and go on.'

This was the final command. Steadily, six
abreast, like a living machine, the men obey.
They carry their heads erect, their shields on
their left arms, their helmets covering their
heads, their armour covering their breasts and
backs ; their necks alone are exposed.

They are in a line, the first of the column
within two hundred paces of the fort, when
they are brought to a stand.

Simeon has trained his men to the use of
the bow to some effect ; he has taught them to
aim at the neck of an eflSgy of a Eoman soldier
in motion and at rest, until every shot is
certain and, if within range, mortal.

And now from entrenchments on each
side of the valley, entrenchments just large
enough to hold a shield and an archer, there
rains down on the Eoman column not fire, but
such a flight of arrows skilfully directed that a
full tenth of the whole force is fatally stricken.
In many instances the necks of the men are
completely transfixed by the arrows, so that,

seizing the shaft by its barbed end, they draw
it through the wound and, bleeding to death,
fall to the ground.

In all his experience of war Titus Valerius
has seen no such art of war as this. It is the
acme of foresight and of skill in carrying out
what ought to be done.

His men who remain, seeing that the shafts
come diagonally from behind them, put up
their shields in that direction.

Steady ! It is a good device ; the arrows
rain now on the impenetrable shields and the
danger is over.

It is but for a moment that the arrows,
from behind, continue to rain on the shields ;
for lo ! there is a new flight of the deadly
shafts diagonally from the front, laying another
tenth of the force at the feet of the
concealed foe ; while, to add to the danger, the
catapults from the fort, worked with an accuracy
and steadiness that would do credit to
Eoman catapultists themselves, pour a perfect
shower of huge stones into the Eoman
line.

Against such expert bowmen, against such
well-served catapults, Titus Valerius sees it is

F 2

mere folly to strive with the small force he has
in command.

At once he orders a retreat from the defile
with heads bent and shields brought close
down to the head. Change the position in
respect to the archers, his quick sense tells
him, and losing their range they will exhaust
their arrows in vain.

He is correct about the loss of range. He
is not correct about the exhaustion of arrows.
Titus Valerius has a foe now as acute as
himself. So soon as the range is lost scarcely
another arrow flies. A few experimental shots
are skilfully directed at what seem vulnerable
parts in the armour of his men, and one unfortunate
man is transfixed, but the result not
being worth the arrow and bowstring the
flight of shafts ceases, and as the little column
winds out of the defile the agile bowmen rush
down, to finish the slaughter of the wounded,
to gather up their arrows and catapult stones,
like reapers in a field of death, and to march
with shout and loud song back to the fort.

It is perfectly maddening to the Eoman
commander not to be able to chase them with
his cavalry to the gate of their entrenchments,

but there is no time for the evolution, this own
men block the way, and these savages, as he
calls them, are quick as lightning and sure as
fate in what they undertake.

Shall Titus Valerius go back to Scythes
a defeated man, to fetch up larger forces
and conquer an enemy merely by superior
numbers and not by discipline and courage ?

This were a wise, a prudent, and probably
a successful course, and Titus Valerius knows
the solemn fact in all its solemnity.

Titus Valerius is, however, but human.
His higher and his lower nature contend.
His higher nature, his judgment, bids him
swallow pride, swallow defeat, get new powers
and return to certain victory. His lower
nature, his emotion, his passion, says : —

What, you ! the spoiled child of the great
leader ; you who have sneered at poor Servien
of Joppa ! you who once stood in jeopardy
for smiling at the military incapacity of
Hadrian ! you who have never been beaten in
any previous enterprise ! you at whose order
every soldier would willingly die ! — you give
up your well-won laurels, even for a moment,
to a crew of beggarly Jewish boys under a

pretender who, until now, has never led the
smallest army, and is not, in fact, a soldier
by profession ! You, Titus Valerius, do this
cowardly thing! Then let the women of
Eome toss their proud heads at your weakness,
let the men despise you, and let Caesar, who
may have heard your comments on himself, give
you your reward in degraded rank ad name.

The war between the two human natures
does not last long. It rarely does, and, except
amongst the most exalted natures, never. It
is a battle between the abstract and the concrete,
the soul and the body, the future and the
present, the higher and the lower existences.

Titus Valerius is great, brave, in many
respects noble, but after all a man. His lower
nature holds dominion. He, beaten by a handful
of savages, with still over six hundred
veteran infantry and a hundred picked cavalry
at his back !

Impossible.

He is confirmed in his resolution by the
words of his second in command in reply to
the remark :

It were well, my Galba, if we had a
thousand more men up from Scythopolis,'

It were a crime to let the animals escape
while we sent for reinforcements,' is the reply
of the lieutenant.

'True ! Let us encamp here for the night.'

In an hour the camp is laid and the sentinels
placed on a high ground which commands
the whole of the surrounding country,
and which enables any movement from the
enemy's fort to be instantly detected.

The morning breaks. The standard of the
Eoman empire floats proudly over the plain ;
the standard of the Lion of Judah, with the
star above and the sceptre beneath, floats also
freely and defiantly.

The breath of the same power moves
both,' is the saying of Akiba as he observes
these symbols from his place of observation ;
but see, our standard floats on high, raised by
the wind towards the course we would pursue
our enemy, and pointing also heavenward, while
theirs droops and points to the line of flight.'

At the very same time an augur in the
Eoman camp notes the same phenomena.

Their flag flies high while ours sinks low ;
'tis a bad omen for Titus Valerius.'

Titus Valerius himself may have been

Struck by the portent, for he, too, is seen
observing the facts and drawing some reflections
from the omen, which are not agreeable.
He is not the man he was yesterday. Defeat
rests on his brain. For many a year past he,
for the first time, has passed a sleepless night ;
between snatches of sleep he has planned and
replaced this day's tactics, and now these
plans contend one against another so sharply
that he hesitates before he gives the command.

Let fifty horsemen prepare to ride with
me round the camp of these rebels.*

The order is obeyed before Valerius has
broken from another idea which he would
rather have followed ; but it is too late.

Vacillation in a Eoman general may be
felt but must never be exhibited. This, the
rule of the first Caesar, is absolute. Woe be to
him who breaks it.'

They are indeed a gallant troop ; men,
horses, armour, weapons alike perfect, as they
set forth under the bright light of the morning
sun.

They move in the first instance on the
southern side of the Jewish fort, a cloud to
the eye of Akiba, ' not bigger than a man's

hand,' a cloud of silver. A little while later,
and they are seen by all the Jews in the clouds,
but inverted and coming suddenly to the
ground, as if they had been raised up and let
down to the earth With a crash.

Inspired by the voice of prophecy the
Jewish youth burst into song :

How art thou fallen from Heaven, Lucifer !
How art thou cut to the ground which didst weaken the
nations ! '

and, exulting in their song, await the word of
command, ready to serve, and serving to die.

The camp of the Eomans lies about half a
league from the fort on its eastern side, and
the small detachment skirting the fort, with
Titus Valerius at its head, keeps about the
same distance, wheeling round by the south and
making careful surveys all the way. Valerius
intends to make the complete circuit, studying
as he goes the best after-methods of attack
and annihilation when he shall have completed
his survey.

In the circuit he has passed the first quarter
of his journey. He is now due south of the
Jewish fort and is bearing round to the
west.

Amongst the more remarkable powers of
Simeon, who is watching this progress, is the
gift of long sight. When a boy he had once
astonished Akiba by telling him, as they looked
together at one of the very bright stars which
comes up in regular order, and is called
by the Eomans the Star of Jove, that near the
body of the star were two smaller stars on
each side, which changed their places as if they
were moons to the star ; but no one else could
see them. Fidelis, too, had often used Simeon's
wonderful eyes for distinguishing distant objects
which none else could define.

At this moment, therefore, Simeon on the
watch-tower of the fort, with Akiba by his side,
follows the movements of the enemy with
unfaltering gaze , and Akiba, to whom no such
gift belongs, reads it as another fulfilment of
the prophecy respecting the star out of Jacob
and the sceptre out of Israel. The man who
should come : —

^ Whose eyes are open,
Who shall destroy all the children of Sheath,
And shall have dominion. '

See, my father, they turn now to the left
hand, and those men we observed in the clouds,

like the shadows of trees in the rivers, were
they. I can count them as they rest. They
are five times the fingers on my hands. The
Lord has delivered them to us straightway.

Get ready fifty horsemen chosen of the
chosen, with bow, arrow, sword and lance,
to be at the western gate to accompany the
Star of Jacob.

Let also one thousand foot under the command
of Abner, the chief bowman and mighty
man of war, march out of the eastern gate
and keep watch over the Eoman camp. Let
them make a crescent between the fort and
the camp of the enemy, with the inner face to
the enemy so that none can pass this way, but
let them not assault the enemy unless he descend
into the plain.'

The orders are obeyed so soon as the words
are spoken.

Akiba, remaining on the watch-tower with
his son, sees both movements as they are
carried out, and with a result which fills
him with a tremor as if an ague had seized
him.

Like Moses on the hill above the forces of
Amalek, he raises his hands until they would

fall unless they were supported by those near
to him.

The Eomans of the camp, partly surrounded
by their enemies, lie quiet, ready for
defence, waiting the return of their leader.

Simeon and his little troop go forth bearing
the standard of their last victory ; the white
blazon with the Star of Jacob, the Sceptre of
Israel, and the Lion of Judah.

How gallantly they ride, not to face their
foe, but as if to sweep into his rear and gall
him with their arrows from behind !

It is a movement the last in the world that
Valerius anticipated. These men who have
come in sight of him are cavalry ; it must be a
Eoman detachment sent after him bearing the
standard of the Pretender surrounded or slain.

They descend like gods ! ' is his exclamation.
' What are they ? These Jews have no
horses, and who ever saw a Jew ride anything
better than a camel or a mule ? Halt and let
them advance.'

It is the very act which Simeon wants.
Truly he and his men do descend on the
halting column like gods, but with a flight
of arrows aimed at the horses every point of

which draws blood. Not an arrow is spent
in vain, and yet not a bridle is tightened ora
moment of speed slackened.

Within easy bowshot the flying archers
fall to the rear of Valerius, and then, winding
round so as to get parallel with him, let another
flight of arrows pour in upon him on his outer
side, from one of which he, alas ! receives a
severe if not a fatal injury.

He is pierced beneath the right arm when
holding it up in the act of giving command,
and although he tears the weapon out a gaping
wound remains.

Another curve of the flying archers brings
them next between their enemies and their own
fort ; another mischievous flight of arrows is
delivered at still closer range, and away, like a
shadow, the Httle troop, unscathed, absolutely
unscathed, flies towards its place of shelter,
the wonderful fortress.

Pursue! pursue! pursue! pursue! Follow
them into their own trap ! ' is the order of
Valerius as he gathers together his shattered
reason and his shattered corps.

There is no fear of Eoman soldiers failing
in pursuit. As fast as their wounded horses

can carry them they follow their leader with
vengeance on their brows and courage to the
death in their hearts.

As the flying archers, pursued by the
Eoman furies, approach the fortress, the western
gate of which is opening for them, they
once more, like a serpent, coil round, so as
almost to collide, on the right, with their
opponents, and delivering another charge of
arrows into their flank, ride again triumphantly
into their rear.

To the gate of the fortress ! to the open
gate ! ' is the Eoman command. It is too late.
Akiba, who has seen the movement, has closed
the gate in their faces so promptly that, sweeping
up to it, the foremost horses dash out
their lives by the concussion and pitch their
riders backwards over their haunches, while
from above, from the walls of the fortress, a
hundred hands hurl down stones and darts
with deadly aim.

The memory of Servien, the soldierlike
skill of Caesar, so despised by Titus Valerius, is
avenged. Never more, never more, Titus
Valerius, hero of a thousand victories, despise
an enemy, and least of all when that enemy is

a Jewish force, with the Son of a Star and his
sword-bearer at its head.

Wait ; there is yet a chance for thee, Titus
Valerius. It is a last chance, but it is glorious.
His quick eye sees it, his brave heart declares
it, his skilful arm, wounded though it is, longs
for it ; the noble horse he rides requires no spur
to respond to the genius of his eye, the declaration
of his heart, the longing of his hand.

He has fallen back from the fortress with
ten of his men ; his officers are all dead, but he
lives with ten men ; and there, unconcernedly,
as if nothing had happened, is the arch impostor,
the soul if not the heart of this rebellion, the
pretended Messiah riding apart from his troop,
signalling them to surround Titus Valerius and
his band so that they must yield at discretion.

His back is to thee, Titus Valerius ; one
leap, and thy sword is through him, and thou
hast cleared the earth of the worst rebel Eome
at this moment knows.

That thou wilt die for it is certain, but what
is death for such a conquest ?

It is a crown of life.

His hand is on his sword, but he cannot do
what the evil spirit prompts. Titus Valerius

has never yet feared to meet his worst enemy
face to face. He will retain his soul and fight
like a man, face to face. His decision is fixed.
He bids his men back still further, moving
with them a few paces apart. Then with loud
and clear voice he challenges his foe. ' I call
upon thee, traitor, Simeon, whosoever thou
art, to yield to me in the name of Caesar, or I
shall strike thee dead.'

Then wilt thou do what no man born of
woman was ever destined to perform ; therefore
do thy best and thy worst.'

So speaking, Simeon, with sword undrawn,
as one unarmed, turns face to face on his gallant
foe, removing at the moment his cap, as if
in friendly salutation.

What ails thee, Valerius ? There is thy
man ! Kill him ! kill him ! Why not ?

Valerius is aghast. As if a spirit had
risen before his eyes he repeats the words of
Servien : —

'Trajan! by all the gods, Trajan!' And
from the hand of his wounded arm his sword
falls to the earth.

His men rush to succour him, and in their
courageous despair attempt to fight their way.

bearing him along with them. They place him
in their midst, form a column, and strive to
cut through the masses surrounding them.
They strike out right and left with the fury of
demons ; their very horses fight ; but of what
avail ?

One by one they fall, until one alone remains
; one whom they hold until he sees
each of his comrades hewn to pieces and left
a garnished table of meats for the savage
birds of the air and the beasts of prey.

Save and except the right hand and head
of Valerius. These they affix to the back of
this one prisoner, and leading him in triumph
through the ranks of their friends, who are
watching the Eoman camp, permit him to go
free to carry the tidings of disaster to those
who, in sad but perfect form, are soon afterwards
marching back with forced speed
towards Scythopolis, galled mercilessly by the
flying archers of the victorious Messiah.

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE YI.

THE GREAT SACRIFICE.

With songs of joy and gladness the victors of
Bethulia, — Betliulia,so named after the 'Virgin
of the Lord ' of the tribe Simeon, whose blood
descends to Simeon, the Son of a Star, — pursue
their way.

After the flying archers'return, the whole
force, in bright array, forms into order of
march, and proceeds unchecked to its destination
at Either, on the north-west of the Lake
of Tiberias in Galilee.

They march flushed with victory ; they
are enthusiastic to frenzy about their leader,
their Messiah, the man of the promises. All
that he does proclaims him and his mission.
He is invincible. His look is life and death.
His eyes are open,' and no man can kill
him.

As they move along they chant songs concerning

him and the coming glory of his
reign, beating time with their feet in the order
of their steps, thousands of steps but one tread,
which to him they worship is better praise
than the song which it accompanies.

Psalms upon psalms from the royal psalmist
rend the air, especially those psalms which
give promise of the great kingdom. Leaving
the strict letter of the text, they shorten and
emphasise parts of it in order to express the
sense, in words, that go with the tramp of
the feet. At intervals during a day one verse
is thus rendered over and over again, from
corps to corps, until everyone, including even
Akiba, joins, by contagion of impulse, in the
song. Simeon alone is excepted.

Three verses thus adapted are most approved
: —

He shall come down like rain.
Like showers upon the plain ;

His kingdom shall not wane.
Till the bright moon shall cease,

His righteousness shall reign
And his abundant peace.

Amen.

Beneath his conquering tread.
From sea to sea outspread,
Foes shall lie vanquished.

Q 2

Before him kings shall come,

And humbly bow their head,
And his dominion own.

Amen.

His name and race shall run
Until the mighty sun

Its measured work hath done.
He shall all wrongs redress.

And Him, ' The blessed One
All nations shall confess.

Amen.

They are in no undue haste now. They
are invincible. From all sides they are welcomed
and fed by their people, through whose
country and villages they pass with greatest
rejoicing and honours. They have made
themselves arms which are their pride, and
now, like the children of David, every one
can use the bow and the spear and the sling.
Each night they encamp on some place made
famous in their history, such as the Mount
of Gilead, the Valley of Jezreel, the town of
Ensor, and at last, through lower Galilee,
until they reach the city of their hopes.

On the final day of their journey, as they
near the appointed seat of government, the
keen eye of Simeon detects the place far in
the distance. What he sees raises his wonder.

My father,' addressing Akiba, ' is Either
a fortress ? '

No, my royal son ; it is not as yet
fortified.'

But that which rises before me is a vast
fortification.'

As they progress this fact becomes generally
clear ; to Simeon it presents new
wonders.

Our standard floats from a dome in the
centre. Surely this is a trap of the Eomans
to lure us into their toils ? '

1 think, my son, I know the noble Eoman
who has worked this miracle, but we will
approach with prudence.'

Steadily, stealthily, with enthusiasm it was
difficult to suppress, the forces of the Son of
a Star, now many thousand strong, come near
a fortification which seems to enclose a place
larger than Joppa, large as Jerusalem. It is
laid out like the Holy City itself. Akiba calls
it, for the first time formally and as if in inspiration,
' The New Jerusalem.'

No opposing Eoman hath done this.'

Then in pious exultation he, and all his
scholars, break out into the chant : —

Thou has loosed our bonds,
We will offer Thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving,
We will call on Thy name,
We will pay our vows unto the Lord,
Now in the presence of His people,
In the courts of the house of the Lord,
In the midst of thee, O Jerusalem I '

Moving on, chanting with one voice the
beautiful strain, the army of Simeon is within
bowshot of the city ; then, dividing into three
companies, it comes to rest, still chanting the
inspired and inspiring words.

By whom will they be received ?

The question is not long unanswered. The
gates of the fortress are thrown open on the
northern side facing the army, and soon a procession
is seen forming before the gate, not a
procession of Eomans in arms, but of Jews
numbering many thousands, attired for a
festival and divided according to their guilds
and orders.

On the suggestion of Akiba the army of
Simeon comes to rest in the form of a crescent,
to receive the processionists in due solemnity
and order. In the centre of the crescent they
plant the standard, and Simeon standing on
an eminence, surrounded by a chosen few

on foot, Akiba bearing his sword, awaits with
the whole army the procession now on its way
towards him from the city.

In the whole history of the Jewish people
no more brilliant sight ever met Jewish eye
than this procession of the people of Bitter,
the New Jerusalem, to meet their young and
sovereign prince.

It is that day of the feast of the seventh
month when in every Jewish home booths
are pitched and the joyous festival unto the
Lord is h olden.

New Jerusalem is one vast tabernacle, and
they who stream out of it are arrayed in all
the glory of the feast. Their garments are
of shining white. They carry in their hands
branches of myrtle and willow and boughs of
the palm-tree and citron. They drive before
them, surrounded by the priests, the offerings
of the sacrifice, bulls, lambs, rams, and one
kid of a goat ; and, as they march they sing
their hymns of praise to the King of kings
and Lord of lords who has sent them their
Messiah in the fulness of time according to
the word of His prophets. Preceding the
priests and their offerings is Huldah, the child

of Elkanab. Her robes shine beyond all
others ; her face is glorious to behold ; her
branches of myrtle and willow and palm and
citron are the most beautiful of the multitude,
and are made to wave most grandly ; the
branches, as she waves them before the victor,
seem to speak, like her lips, the welcome she
offers in the name of her followers : —

Hail, Simeon, Son of a Star. Hail, Simeon,
foretold of the prophets. Hail, Prince of
Israel, elected of the Holy One ! Hail, thou
Star of Jacob, hail ! Enter into the city that
is prepared for thee, the City of Zion, the New
Jerusalem. Enter and ]reign until Jerusalem
of old is thy possession and the world thine
inheritance.

Hail, Simeon, Son of a Star ! '

The last word, accompanied by the waving
of the branches of trees held in her hand and
uplifted over her head, is the signal for the
general outburst of exultation.

Before the dazed sight of Simeon a forest
of moving branches is suddenly lifted on high.
It moves like the waves of the sea, and for a

moment covers those who move it ; it sinks
and lets be seen the multitudes of faces, glad
with one gladness, strong with one strength,
hearty with one heart, vocal with one
voice : —

Hail, Star of Jacob ! Hail, Simeon, Son
of a Star ! '

The bewilderment of the scene is such that
it shakes even the resolute and firm nature
of him in whose honour it is produced, so
that at first he does not recognise that the
woman before him is Huldah, or that the
giant who follows her, bearing the standard,
is his old competitor in the arena of Britain.
As the tumult ceases the truth breaks on him,
and as she approaches to lay her trophies at
his feet he clasps her in his arms amidst the
renewed and deafening applause of all the
host before him. The salutation thus bestowed
on her is received by Huldah with a
natural response which fills the heart of that
aged firebrand Elkanah with ecstatic delight.
It is the all but final step to the realisation
of his fondest hopes. It is his ambition
to be greater than the great Akiba, to be the
father of a line of kings that shall be wise

as a Solomon, famous as a Pharaoh, beloved
of Israel ; and now the time draws nigh.

Amongst the thousand eyes which see that
long embrace many judge it differently. To
Elkanah it is the sign of life ; to Akiba, sadly
to his mind, it is the mere sign of a recognition
of a past time, of a brotherly and sisterly
affection which has often been expressed in a
similar loving manner ; to Eli, the faithful
standardbearer, it is a sign that smites him
deeply. She, his goddess, the light of his
eyes, the core of his heart, in the embrace of
another, however exalted ! her cheek, her lips
to his ! her breast heaving in response to his !
her arms enclasped around him !

Cursed be the day in which I was born,'
is the saying, after suffering Job, that Eli to
himself says. Yet, like Job, and indeed, calling
to mind that patient man as the only type of
man he can follow, he stands firm as the giant
that he is, bearing the standard of his rival so
steadily that not a tremor of the silken streamer
betrays his fearfully restrained emotion.

The difference in the views of the spectators
is not confined to them ; it actually
exists in those themselves who call it forth.

Huldah shares the hopes, the ambitions, the
desires of her sire, and to them all adds that
most overwhelming of passions, a woman's
love, unquenchable, life of life, on which all
future life depends. Proud would she be to
become the sharer of a throne in Israel, a
mother of kinoes ; but this were as nothing
compared with the possession of the love of
the man who, in all her vicissitudes and
dangers and trials and triumphs, she has cared
only to claim as her own. Had she been
wicked as well as ambitious, intriguing as
well as brilliant, she — yes ! she — might by this
time have been empress of the world, Sabina
and Cleopatra in one ; but to her not all the
glory of the Eoman throne ever touched the
glory of being the faithful wife of the anointed
of Israel; of him who has come — no ! who has
been sent — to redeem his people.

And yet, Hke the towering Eh, she hides
her secret in her heart. In her reception of
her lord she accepts, as his sister, his hearty
salutations. If a tear of joy fills her eyes it
is the joy of the sister, not of the lover ; a
difference indefinable yet definite, each joy
equally strong, equally protective, equally

natural, yet as far apart as pole from pole.
Simeon feels this fact and is consoled. To
him the recognition is honestly that of a
brother for a sister beloved beyond all price,
a sister who will one happy day, perchance,
be sister also to her who at this supreme
moment of human distinction occupies his
thoughts far more fully than the living forest
of palms and the acclamations of victory.

She loves me only as a sister, and all is
well.'

These are his thoughts as he unclasps her
to return her to Elkanah, who stands at her
right hand.

But as he bends down over her to implant
a final kiss on her forehead the expression,
momentary as the glance of a sunbeam, tells
him all, tells him that she leaves his arms in
agony, that she has guessed his secret, that
her fond hopes are vanquished, and that her
holy fire of love is wasted glory.

No, not wasted, for, the discovery made
that her one great hope is gone for ever, that
the welcome she has received is the welcome
of a brother and no more, her soul, born of
heaven, and her inspiration from the Divine

will, save her from despair. Resuming the look
of pride with which she views him, she makes
at once and for ever in her own heart a vow
unto the Lord : —

We two are the children of Israel. Israelis
our common Father, Judah our common
Mother. He is Israel, I am Judah, and together,
hand in hand, we will fulfil the hopes,
the longings, the greatness of our people, so
that all generations shall know us as they
who lifted the chosen race from the earth and
gave it power over land and sea.'

And as if by death she had lost the husband
whom she adored, she offers up silently
the usual prayer : —

Blessed be the righteous Judge.'

The forest of joy is lowered. Before the
Son of a Star an altar is built up : the bulls,
the rams, the lambs are killed for sacrifice,
and are laid by the priests as sacrifices on the
sacrificial altars. The odour of the sacrifice
rises a sweet-smelling savour to heaven, as the
people pray for the life of their elected king.

The solemn ceremonial is followed by a
season for refreshment with food, and by temporary
repose. Then once more ringing

hosannas rend the air ; the branches wave
aloft ; and, finally, from a high place, Akiba
again preaches so impressively that the thousands,
who hear with one ear, feel with one
heart, are fed with one thought, are moved
with one spirit.

It is a matchless discourse ; it tells of the
wonders that have been done in times past for
the chosen children ; it recounts their backsliding
; it chides their misdeeds ; it shows
the fools their folly and the wise their
wisdom ; it unfolds the promises to Abraham
and his seed for ever ; it re-echoes the prophets
and the words they have spoken ; and, coming,
at last, to the fulfilment of the greatest prophecies,
it reveals the story of the Star of
Jacob, who now, at the appointed hour,
precisely as had been foretold, appears to
restore the walls of Zion, to succour her bulwarks,
to be the light shining out of darkness,
and to be the lustre of every nation.
The final sentences thunder forth the duties
of the hosts that now own the envied promise
of the ages. The end has come ; the messenger
is here ; the Messiah is born, is grown

to man's estate, is armed with might and
majesty from heaven.

wayward and hitherto perverse generation,
hft now your eyes to the mountains,
whence your strength comes, until all the ends
of the earth shall declare that, through His
servant, a king reigns in righteousness and
princes rule in judgment.'

The voice stops with an abruptness that
causes a shock, like a mighty wind, through
the silent masses. It is a whirlwind of the
mental atmosphere that has shaken them
until they tremble with excitement and enthusiastic
expectation. With a bound they
rise to their feet, offer their silent responses to
the benediction, and prepare to escort the Son
of a Star into the New Jerusalem.

A more brilliant cortege could not ride
into Eome itself than this company of Simeon
and his companions. He himself is gallantly
mounted on a charger of Syrian blood, which,
lithe and strong, quick of limb, and quick-sighted
as himself, bears him with pride as
an animal knowing it is bestridden by one of

superior position and quality. Akiba, in robes
of sombre hue but magnificent make, rides
on his right hand. Huldah, in her robes of
shining white and with a tiara of gold around
her superb brow, rides on his left, he one pace
in advance of them. Behind follow his escort,
very magnificently attired and full of youth
and beauty. They carry at their backs the
bow ; at their left side the quiver full of arrows,
at their right side the scimitar ; and in a socket
attached to their left sandal the light lance,
feathered like a huge arrow, which they can
use in full gallop or cast like a javelin with
a precision that is possessed by not one of
Hadrian's forces ; whilst on the left breast of
each the Star of Jacob blazes forth as a
centre of light and fire.

And, marvel of marvels ; heading the
youths and immediately following Simeon
himself, the ancient Elkanah rides a charger
of splendid size and mettle ; rides, too, with
a grace and skill and courage which wins
universal admiration. He carries no armour,
carries neither bow nor sword nor lance ; yet
still he is armed. On his back is slung a
volume of the sacred Scriptures, a bow from
which can be discharged words that fly like

arrows and never miss their mark. A long staff,
round which is rolled closely the ten Holy Commandments,
is his lance, a weapon meant to
pierce the souls of men. The rod of Justice in
his right hand is his sword. And, his quiver
is filled with small rolls of texts or arrows of
truth befitting the time and the occasion.

From this quiver of truth Elkanah, as he
rides along, and as the people lay down the
branches to make a way for their elected King,
delivers, in his loud and resounding voice,
during the intervals of the songs and exultations,
his arrows to all around. Sometimes
the arrow sent forth is a declaration of the
current time : —

Yet have I set my king
Upon my holy hill of Zion.

I shall give thee

The heathen for inheritance,

And the uttermost parts of the earth

For thy possession.'

Then it is an admonition : —

Serve the Lord with fear
And rejoice with trembling.'

A little later proverb and precept follow : —

In the multitude of the people is the king's honour,
But in the want of people is the destruction of the prince.

VOL. III. H

Righteousness exalted a nation,
But sin is a reproach to any people.'

Righteous lips are the delight of kings,
And they love him that speaketh right.*

In the light of the king's countenance is life.'

Then lie bursts forth, to the wild excitement
of his hearers as the gates of the
city are entered, into the inspiring song : —

Awake, awake, put on thy strength, Zion,
Put on thy beautiful garments,
O Jerusalem, the Holy City.

Go through, go through the gates.
Prepare ye the way of the people,
Cast up, cast up, the highway.
Gather out the stones.
Lift up a standard for the people.

And thou shalt be called " Sought out,
A city not forsaken." '

The masses take up the burthen of the
words he next declaims : —

Say ye to the daughter of Zion,
Behold thy salvation cometh,
Behold his reward is with him
And his work before him.'

And thus with songs of praise and glory
Simeon enters Either, the ' House of Liberty,'
the New Jerusalem.

It is the day of triumph of the ' Son of a
Star.' No prophet, no judge, no king of his
eternal race has ever entered into human
glory clothed with such rejoicing, hope, and
majesty.

If his heart be not lifted up, what in all
humanity can Hft the human heart ?

The chief actors of the memorable day are
led by the people to a palace prepared for them
as Solomon might desire, and till the sun sets
their ears are greeted with the acclamations
of their devoted followers.

Surely now all is peace ?

Spirit of light, lead us by thy light to see and
know the truth ! '

Akiba is seated in a room specially prepared
for him, prepared with every thought
for his scholastic taste and service. For once
books, his choicest, dearest friends, exert no
spell. They are cast at his feet.

Books at the feet of Akiba !

He has been closeted with Simeon ; he
has heard the history of his foundling since
last they met. Like the child of the desert

of the olden days, the Son of a Star has poured
forth his whole soul into the ear of his master.
He has told the story of his love, his betrothal,
his betrothed.

Akiba is pondering over the strange history.
It recals to him his own life, his own
love. He knows the conquering power. For
the first moment since he took up this strange
youth from the sheepfold his faith wavers as
to the destiny of his protege.

The Star of Jacob, the Messiah, the Redeemer
of Israel, the Prince of the redeemed,
the King of the chosen, the preordained ; — hein
love and dying of love for a woman of
the western seas, a heathen, a worshipper of
Mithra, a child of Baal ! How are the mighty
fallen !

And that inspired woman, she whose genius
is divine, whose faith has no bound, whose
devotion has no flaw ; she who has raised this
New Jerusalem and made a new heart for the
nation ! She ! Is she to be cast aside, to have
no oh are in his future glory, no reward ?
Reward ! There is no such thing !

God of our fathers Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, why, in thy infinite wisdom, didst thou

make love for a woman such an almighty
power over man ? '

And through him a thought, in answer,
passes with silent force :

That man may replenish the earth with
men ! For love is the life of the earth.'

It is too true. It is the argument of the
Alexandrian schools ; of Platonist and Philos ;
the heathen have declared it in thousands of
symbols forbidden to Jewish art.

And it is true. Love is the life of the
earth.'

He repeats the words, ' Love is the life of
the earth.' They stagger him with their
meaning. They make him push away his
books with his feet ; they hold his breath,
they bind his hands ; they choke his utterance.
The sword-bearer lets fall the sword,
and Akiba the inspired becomes a mere man
of men.

The inspiration has fled, at least for a
time, but still a strong man remains. It may
return. Before his time one greater than he,
who knew the same awful fears, of hopes lost
and gone, wished for the wings of a dove
that he might fly away and be at rest, but

who, trusting in his Maker, came out of his
trouble.

And in this guide and counsellor he obtains
relief. He resigns himself to the Eternal Will,
and seeking for rest finds it in the prayer : —

In thee, Lord, I have put my trust,
let me never be confounded.'

In the golden room of his palace the Son
of a Star reclines on his bed with his heart
unbuttoned of its cares. He has confessed
to his guardian, and has felt no shame in
his confession. There is now no secret, no
breach of confidence, no sin. He is fulfilling
his destiny at the cost of his happiness, and
is satisfied.

Not less, however, is the pain, the ceaseless
pain. Almost a king, he is quite a slave ;
slave of slaves, and willingly enslaved. 'Where,
sweet Erine, now art thou ? The stars shine
brightly over this New Jerusalem, how do
they shine on thee ? In that one bright gem
over this resting-place art thou reflected ?
Yea, even so ! Thy voice, from afar, is
nearer, clearer than the voice of the people ;
thy look, so gentle and holy, eclipses all their

forests of waving boughs ; thy fingers, entwined
in my dark locks, are dearer than the
crown they would press upon them ; that
ointment with which they will anoint my
brow, what is it to the spikenard of thy lips ?
that sceptre they will give me to grasp, what
is it to the clasp of thy warm hand and the
thrill of thy blood to mine ? '

On the wings of his imagination he leaves
all that is near him hundreds of leagues
behind. His body is in the New Jerusalem, his
soul is in the Island of Peace and Beauty, in
the temple of the woods, in the shaded rivers,
in the streets of marble. He breathes the
same air with the divine Huldah ; he lives
with the angelic Erine.

They strike the door of his chamber ; they
tell him that the day is on high, and the eyes
of the people wait for him. He hears the
clamour of the talk outside, the clang of the
feet of the horses, the sound of the distant
trumpets, the songs of the choristers.

He must reanimate the body that lies in
this New Jerusalem with his lost soul. He
must go forth for the day as though there
had been no shadows of the night.

In the streets of the New Jerusalem, as
the morning reveals them, a strange and unearthly
figure meets the eyes of the beholders.
He who yesterday rode in such majesty into
the city, thundering forth the Divine word asa
prophet of fire, clothed in rich garments
and holding high place, is there abased. At
a corner of the great palace he stands with
outstretched arms, closed feet, bended form,
clothed in mean robes, reading as of old
the sacred Word.

'What hath he done? It is Elkanah !
What hath he done ? '

The people group round him to listen,
and ask him when he pauses : —

Elkanah, what hast thou done ? '

He answers only by the continuous reading
of the Word.

Then is it set about one to another until
it reaches the whole city.

Elkanah is crucified again ! Why is it so ? '

No sentence of his own records the cause ;
no syllable tells that his worst agony has
come ; that his proudest, fondest hopes have
vanished for ever. He bears the cross again
as before, as Akiba sees but explains not.

An ominous awe seizes the people, which
lasting long might become a danger in darkness,
but for the new light which dawns with
the full blaze of day.

The good angel of the * House of Liberty,'
Huldah, the child of Elkanah, appears
amongst the multitude. She knows no
failure. Her heart is constant even unto
death. Sleep has not visited her eyes nor
dreams her couch, yet she is faithful, and her
soul is free. Eli the trusted one is near, and
her escort of guards surround her. They do
her bidding at her word, and the voice of her
father calling forth,

How are the mighty fallen 1 '

has no effect on her. She rides majestically
past, even past Elkanah !

To the gates of the Temple, my people ;
to the gates of the Temple, to declare the
Lord's anointed ! '

On the altars pitched the day before
outside the gates of the city the bulls, the
rams, the lambs, formed the sacrifice propitiatory
to the new king of the Jews, Messiah,

Deliverer and King. The bulls, the rams, the
lambs are at peace ; they have risen as incense
to the heavens, and are lost in the
infinity. That great sacrifice is past and gone.
But this, the greater sacrifice to duty, country,
liberty, remains on the living altar :

To the gates of the Temple, my people ;
to the gates of the Temple, to see and declare
the Lord's anointed ! '

CHAPTEE It.

BEHOLD You KING !

Ln" obedience to command, the people gather
together in the grand court of the new
Temple to witness and take part in the solemn
rite that is to crime them a kincr to rule over
them.

They think very much about the man they
are going to transform into something more
than a man, yet less than a deity, of whom
they own one alone. But they think still
more about the divine woman who has done
for them such marvellous things, and who is
indeed a wonder in their eyes.

The daughter of Judah is there with a
craft ' and the hearts of the children of Israel
and Judah, alike, beat high with another
expectation.

They have an ancient song which they

greatly treasure, and which conveys in better
words than their own their common anticipation
: —

Hearken, daughter, consider, incline thine ear.
Forget thy people and the house of thy father.
So shall the king desire thy beauty,
For he is thy lord, and worship thou him.
Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children,
Whom thou may'st make princes in all the earth.'

They are filled with joy as they hope that
this prophecy will also come to pass, that a
noble queen will sit on the throne with their
king, and that a royal race will rise to govern
the world that is to come.

Charged with these thoughts the people
welcome the day with thanksgiving and exultation,
and when the voice of their beloved
daughter calls them forth they hasten to obey,
their faces bright as the sun that shines on
them, and their voices resonant with praise.

Yet as the gathering of the congregation
increases there is, in some mysterious manner,
a gathering of gloom. As in a morning all of
brightness and promise there diffuses a dulness
which some say means heat and others say

means rain or storm, so now there is something
diffused in the mental atmosphere of
these multitudes which may mean coming
heat of enthusiasm, or may mean tears, anger,
or other uncertain presage.

The outer signs are disheartening and
mystical.

Why has the cured Elkanah gone back
to his cross ? Why are his tones of speech so
shrill and unmelodious ? Why does he select,
for reading, passages which are critical, doleful,
and full of sad forebodings? Why has he thrown
off his grand attire and re-clothed himself in
the garments of his poverty and mourning?
Why does he not join the first ranks in the
ceremony about to take place instead of sitting
alone at an outer corner of the palace ?

Their beloved daughter, his daughter, she
who calls them together, why is she also
mysteriously changed ? She wears the dress
of one of the sacred women of old whose lives
were devoted to the worship of the Divine
presence ; and around her the little maidens
who wait on her are attired in the same
character.

It is true that her eyes are not dim, her

countenance is not cast down, and her voice
IS not less clear ; but she is not the same as she
has been, and her words seem to have lost
some charm as she cries : —

To the great court of the Temple ! to the
great court of the Temple ! to see and declare
the Lord's Anointed.'

In the Temple the throne or seat of judgment
is set forth to the right of an altar
emblazoned with light and bearing all the
sacred treasures of the priestly office together
with the sceptre and crown, and with the
kingly robes of Tyrian purple on the steps
before it. On the left of the altar, is the
raised place for the readers, and the tables
bearing the sacred Word.

In silent prayer the great congregation sits
and waits for the consummation of its hopes.

Precisely at the hour of noon, when the
sun has attained his meridian, Simeon enters
from the vestibule on the side of the throne
and proceeding to the foot of the altar kneels
before the congregation. With this act of
homage the readers rise to their feet, cover
their heads and, led by one of the singers,

chant the strain, repeating each short line
till all can join : —

Assemble !

Assemble yourselves together !.

Assemble and come !

Draw near, draw near 1

Draw near together !

Ye that are escaped of the nations,

Draw near together !

I have sworn by myself
That unto me, unto me
Every knee shall bow.
Every tongue shall swear.

To Him shall men come.
The incensed against Him
Shall be ashamed.

In the Lord, in the Lord

Shall the seed of Israel be justified.

The chant is concluded, and whilst the
suppliant is still kneeling the High Priest
pronounces over him the blessing. It is the
last time he, as a man of common nature, will
receive that blessing. He is about to become
another and more exalted being of the earth.
He is to be the Anointed ; he is to represent
the Divine power and judgment and equity.
His word is to become law, and he is to reiffn
in righteousness. Life and death are to be

under his will. He is to speak and all are to
obey.

With the acceptance of this awfully solemn
trust the man, as King, will feel himself instantly
severed from all previous ties, if to his mind
the trust comes with the solemnity of belief that
is necessary to give it majesty. Now on his
knees at the altar, in the face of the congregation,
his whole nature ought to be enkindled
with holy desire. It is enkindled with a desire
that, perhaps, is of the holiest, but it is not that
of kingly majesty and responsibility.

It is the desire of Hfe with one far away.

For even at this solemn hour his mind
is wandering from the temple of the New
Jerusalem to the temple in the woods of the
Island of Peace and Beauty. The man is in
Palestine, the heart of the man is in Juverna.
His head is about to be encircled by a diadem ;
his heart is still to continue in the girdle of
human fealty and love for one alone of all
human kind.

Huldah, looking on, reads in the expression
of his face his struggles with himself and
his fate, and with a noble woman's sympathy
grieves for him.

She grieves also for her people. She
knows that a king who shall try to rule in
one country with his heart in another, who
shall accept the gift of a kingdom when he is
dying to enjoy the gift of a woman's affection
as above all things priceless, is no befitting
king of the Jews. The people may crown
him with honour and might, but they are expending
praises on a stone, and their treasure
on that which is not bread.

Akiba is little less observant than Huldali.
He almost falls as he raises the supplant from
his knees, and aided by Joachim, the high
officiating priest, leads him towards the throne.
Elkanah was to have a place by Joachim,
but Elkanah has refused even to enter the
building.

Mine eyes,' he said, ' shall not behold
iniquity,' and, filled with this saying, he stands
outside the walls of the holy places ; whilst,
in the midst of a ringing chorus : —

He shall build the Temple,
The Temple of the Lord.

He shall bear the glory.

VOL. TIL I

He shall sit and rule upon his throne,
A king upon his throne,
And the counsel of peace
Shall be between both.

And he shall bear the glory.

Amen : ' —

Simeon, a shepherd, is placed on the throne
of the shepherd, on the throne of David.

The ceremony proceeds. From the altar
the holy oil of consecration is brought by the
servitors ; the prayer of the anointing is sung,
and the anointed is invested with the symbols
of power. The sword of justice is girded on
his left side ; the shield of truth is placed on
his left arm ; the breastplate of righteousness
is put upon his breast.

Thus arrayed, anointed, but not yet
crowned, he is led to the altar : he places his
hand on the sacred Word and takes the solemn
obligation, that in all things the Word shall
be a light to his feet and a lamp to his path ;
that he will keep its Commandments and see
that they are kept.

Once more is he led to the throne to be
clothed in the purple robes of majesty. The

sceptre is placed in his right hand ; and, as a
last and final act, amidst the loud hosannas
of the people, the royal crown is placed upon
his head.

Israel, Behold Your King !

And truly a right royal king sits on the
throne of David by all that the eye can see
and by all, save to two or three, that the mind
can conceive.

He is crowned as Simeon. He is called
familiarly Simeon Bar - Cohab, or Bar -
Cochran : Simeon, the Son of a Star.

The King, surrounded by his Court, rises
with the congregation as Joachim pronounces
the benediction, the ceremony is ended and
the people break out again into rejoicing,
in the song of Micah : —

I win assemble aH of thee, Jacob !
I will gather the remnant of Israel.

They shall make a great noise

By reason of the multitude of men.

They have broken up,

They have passed through the gate,

And are gone out by it.

1 2

And their king shall pass before them,
And the Lord on the head of them.*

Thus, still singing the last lines, the great
congregation goes forth as their King, attended
by his Court, passes before them into the gates
of his palace.

By what strange coincidence, less than the
words of prophecy, shall that throng of the
tabernacle be brought to silence as it passes
from under the roof of the Temple to walk
under the roof of the Firmament ?

Yet so it is. The prophet who has filled
them with song of praise within quenches
their joy without the walls of the sacred place,
for there outside, raised on a pillar above them,
Elkanah is delivering the declamation : —

Hear this, I pray ye,
Ye heads of the house of Jacob,
And princes of the house of Israel,
That abhor judgment and pervert all equity.
They build up Zion with blood.
And Jerusalem with iniquity.
The heads thereof judge for reward,
And the priests thereof teach for hire,
And the prophets thereof divine for money.

Yet will they lean upon the Lord,
Yet will they say.

Is not the Lord amongst us 1
No evil can come upon us.

Therefore shall Zion for your sake
Be ploughed as a field,
And Jerusalem shall become heaps,
And the mountain of the house
As the high places of the forest.'

As lie pours forth these dark sayings with
a voice of furious strength the people stagger
and reel in their excitement.

They rally. Who is he that dares defame
their priests and their king ? Let him be torn
from his high place and brought to repentance.


The more ardent youths rush to the pillar
on which Elkanah stands to tear him down,
but reaching it are stricken with mortal
weakness and fear at what they would have
done.

For the leaves of the book of the prophet
fall on their heads and Elkanah speaks no other
word.

In the last great effort of declamation lie
has yielded up his soul to Him who gave it,
and with outstretched hands, his back resting
against the wall, he stands before them fixed
and silent.

Such is the appalling nature of the event,
the crowds shrink back from the spectacle
before them. The winds carry the separated
leaves of the prophetic book hither and thither,
but the body and limbs of the reader of the
leaves crystallise ; the expression of his countenance
sets into alarm and sorrow, until he
stands before them as one dead, whom no one
dares approach, much less take down.

Until the sun begins to decline the body
of Elkanah remains untouched. The people
have gone to their homes shrinking from the
sight, and, not choosing to move out, remain
and talk of the event in subdued tones. A
few of the more inquisitive and restless go,
furtively, into the wide open space to look at
the sight and quickly retreat, as if a spirit had
appeared to them.

But when the gloom of night comes on three
of these inquisitive gossips espy a new sight
even more appalling. A small group of men
with two or three women in shining white are
engaged in removing the rigid figure from its
pedestal. They place the body reverently on
a bier ; they strive to bring its rigid arms to
its side, but apparently in vain, and giving

up the attempt they bear it away unchanged in
its attitude. One of the watching group, more
courageous than his comrades, follows those
who attend the dead to the final resting-place,
and on his return tells how in the floor of
a cave the body of Elkanah, unchanged inform,
has been laid deep in the earth.

Israel, behold your king !

Even so ! In the morning he was beholden
in all the pomp of life and action ; in the
evening he is beholden seated with the daughter
of Judah, loftily on the earth, in the gloom
and sanctity of the shivah, bemoaning the
dead and doing due reverence to another
King who reigns over all the sons of men
and whose kingdom has no end.

Israel, behold your king !

CHAPTER Vin.

PEACE AND BEAUTY.

As in the opening passages of a tempest by
the sea, when dark clouds cover in the firmament
; when winds rage and tear, storming
the trees, making the waves of the ocean
furious and driving boats and ships hither and
thither, so that to command them calls forth
the boldest genius of man ; when, in the distance,
the thunder rolls sullenly and lightnings
are seen crossing from cloud to cloud ; when
men and women say there is a hurricane at
hand ; when seamen bring in their boats, and
fishermen store up their tackle in safe places ;
when travellers make their ways to the inns
for shelter ; when outdoor labourers leave their
work for the home and the fireside ; when
mothers go out to seek their little ones ; and,
when the lower animals, dogs, cats, fowls,
and cattle, make for their resting-places : —

as in the opening passages of a tempest,
when all these events are seen, there often
occurs, during a few moments of perfect calma
bright and alluring light on a placid and
illimitable expanse of the waters, a sea mirage,
in which, through an opening in the dense
drapery of the clouds, the sun sends forth a
gleam that is reflected back by the waves asa
glorious picture of light in the midst of darkness
: —

So, in the opening drama of another storm
in the life of the Son of a Star, and now
the King of the Jews, there is one bright and
glorious dream on which our eyes may rest
and our hearts find pleasure and repose.

In the western island of Peace and Beauty
Erine Leoline still shines, the light and life of
that happy and fertile spot, where, under the
eye of Mithra, goodness, contentment, knowledge
and tranquillity reign supreme.

Of that island Erine Leoline is the uncrowned
queen. Sometimes, in fact, the people
sing of her or speak of her as their queen,
but it is only in symbol, for in Juverna all
are princes or princesses in their own sphere.
Distinctions there are none, except by virtue

of some real kind of courage, beauty, art,
purity, genius.

For here there are no temptations to
obtain dominion. The nation rules itself by
an established code of laws, written for and
read in every household, and treasured there.

The Book of the Law is the book of the
house.

Every child in Juverna learns that in ages
long preceding his birth Mithra inspired a
council of seventy wise men to retire and study
out a code of laws that should be understood
by all who had them to read ; that when this
sublime council met it divided its work into
seventy parts, and that each member of the
council, taking his allotted part, framed a law,
which, being ultimately revised by the whole,
became a law so universally accepted and
followed that from the date of the council no
king, no lord, no new council was ever required
to alter or add to the ' Book of Common Law
of the Grand Council of Mithra the Light of
the World.'

To keep the Book of the Law at all times
in their minds this poetic people built for themselves
towers in various parts of their island —

towers not of warlike character but of great
strength, height and beauty, from the tops of
which at ordained seasons great fires were
lighted which threw their rays, as from giant
candles, over all the land, with other fires from
every high-pointed mountain or crag, fires
which said with tongues of flame : —

Beneath my fight is safely laid the word of
light, the Book of the Law of Mithra, who is
robed in light and is the unseen spirit of the
eternal spheres.'

Each man, each woman a law unto himself,
herself, there is peace in Juverna ; such peace
and such happiness as nations who assume war
to be virtue and victory glory can never know.

Resplendent, too, is the hope of eternal life
which Mithra gives them. They are taught
to look on themselves as plants not of earth
but of heaven. Their good live for ever, their
bad alone die. Hystaspes, one of their ancient
fathers, has left them this vision in his vision
of visions, which their children all learn as a
sacred poem, but which comes from no lips so
sweetly as from those of Erine Leoline when
she repeats it by the firesides of the people
who welcome her to their homes.

For many months after the betrothal of
Erine in the temple at Elbana this child of
the people passes away the time of her sorrow
in works and deeds of goodness and sympathy.
With her father she visits all parts of their
island, carrying into every home she enters
such sunshine and happiness as may live forever
in song and story.

Father and child require no guard, no
protection from evil-doers.

If they were to suspend their choicest
treasures on the fences of the highways the
treasures would not be stolen. In Juverna
there is no necessity for theft, and the crime
being unknown it has no name in the Book
of the Law.

Where there is no necessity there need be
no law.

The fame of the beauty of Erine, of the
Island of Peace and Beauty, spreads from her
own to other lands, and many of the noblest
youth in the island and from abroad, smitten
by what they have heard of her, come to cast
their eyes upon her beauty and to leave their
homage at her feet.

The son of the king of the province of

Aquitaine, a province which has never yet
forfeited its freedom to Eoman power, descends
with great pomp and splendour on the shores
of Juverna in order that he may seek the
hand of the famous Erine Leoline.

The youth is descended from the heroes
of Troy. When Brutus, after the fall of Troy,
made his way to the island of Britain and
landed on the southern coast with his followers,
he brought with him one who became a
king in Britain and whose grandson, also a king,
married a princess of Aquitaine and became
in time king of that country.

From this noble and historic birth the new
claimant for the hand of Erine Leohne has
descended, and Leon, knowing the history of
the youth and of his ancestors, almost sighs
that the fates have decreed that the wish of
the ardent lover cannot be granted. More
than that, the youth is himself all that could
be desired.

But the supreme powers must not be
thwarted in their divine plans. Leoline is
betrothed to the Son of a Star, and the price
of the royal house of Aquitaine must return in
sorrow to his own country, a rejected suitor.

Many tearful eyes in Juverna follow the
young man on his homeward journey, for if he
has not won the hand of Erine he has stolen
the hearts of the people of Juverna. He is
generous, free, trustworthy, trusting, and able
as well as youthful and powerful.

What could lead Erine to reject such a
youth and hold by the handsome adventurer
who left the island in Leviathan with one
attendant in so sudden and mysterious a
manner ? '

The younger of both sexes complain openly
on the matter, but the older chide them with
the words :

'Erine Leoline is betrothed to him they
call the Son of a Star. Were she to break her
troth all Juverna would be accursed, for the
troth has been registered in the realms of
Mithra, the great spirit, and were it dissolved
the very foundations of Juverna would be
shaken.'

The words are known to be true, but
nevertheless the fate is felt to be hard, and
many accompany the despondent prince to
his noble ship that rests in the bright bay of
the southern coast, where the waters are so

clear that the floor of the sea may be seen like
the floor of a house.

The good Leon sighs with the rest of the
people when the departure of the Prince of
Aquitaine takes place, for, as we see, he is
partial to the youth as a youth.

But he is also partial to him for another
and a weighty reason.

Leon has travelled much more widely than
any of his countrymen. His great ship, called
so tersely by Simeon the ' Leviathan,' has
carried him far and wide, so that he has seen
with his own eyes what others have not
seen.

He has seen the future enemies of his
country, and the possible danger of his country
and people in the not very distant future.

All the world is not Juverna, and Juverna
is not all the world.

On the contrary, Juverna is a world of her
own, unlike every other, except, perhaps, one
in the heart of the Eastern climes, many many
thousands of miles away, and with numbers of
hostile nations lying at ween.

And Juverna, by the very perfection and
purity of her social state, has male herself an

easy prey to some very near and yet barbarous
hostile foes.

They have no great leader in Juverna, for
the tribe, not the person, owns and rules the
land.

The tribe, not the person, is great.

There are many tribes, and they are all at
peace ; they speak the same tongue, teach the
same arts, live the same life, and are led by the
same faith and hope, the faith of the glorious
Mithra and the hope that springs out of it.

War with them would be looked upon as a
form of insanity. They are children of peace,
and the very animals which they feed and tend
are so peaceful that none are afraid of them.

They have their strife it is true, but the
strife are those of peace. The truly great win
of a certainty, in the end, the way of honour ;
they find the consummation of hope in being-elected
by the votes of all the tribes to the
Grand Council of Tara, an election celebrated
with great and universal rejoicing.

For the elect of Tara are the lights of
Juverna.

The woman in all social rights and duties
stands equal with the man, for inasmuch as

the woman is born to more sorrow than the
man, therefore should her rights be more
respected and her protection from all injury
more secure.

Like the Jews, the people of Juverna have
their guilds of classified orders according to
endowments and skill. Like the same wise
people, they hold and insist that every man
must be taught a craft, that he may remain a
good citizen ; and in one point they excel
beyond the Jews ; they cultivate closely all
skill and talent that may pass down from
parent to child through generations.

Well might the Emperor Hadrian wish that
for a period he could visit this happy island
of Peace and Beauty, the favoured Juverna,
where Mithra rules and where it is his command,
that all children of earth who wish to
live with him in the regions of eternal light
must endeavour to prepare for that surpassing
glory by making their own home of the earth
like his that is in heaven.

They who are nurtured in Juverna and
know no other place are content to abide in
that resting-place. They neither buy nor sell,
are neither sold nor bought. Working equally,

VOL. III. K

they have little labour ; and, holding equally,
they have no desire for spoil. Those who hive,
live in peace, to make the present, not the unknown
future, happy. Sons and daughters
expect from parents no hoard, no land, no title,
no dowry. Why should they ? Have not sons
and daughters hands for labour, for which it
were a crime to accumulate wealth, idleness,
and early death ?

What more of human felicity can they of
Juverna desire ? No more, absolutely no more.

Leon the Wise thought so in the days of
his youth ; thought so when he was elected
to the Council of Tara, and del vexed an oration
to that assembled body of wisdom in which he
maintained that Juverna had reached to the
perfection of human felicity, and that time
alone was required to make her the idol and
model of all peoples and nations.

But Leon had not then constructed and
travelled in Leviathan.

It was a custom in Juverna that every one
of the people should work at some useful
occupation up to the full meridian of life.
That was a duty.

It was equally a duty then to retire from

regular labour in order to make way for
younger men to labour, and allow the elder
men to go down to the final rest in honour
and rest. Thus meritorious age became a rank,
and bore as its title ' the Elder of the People,'
the Elder-man,' a title which some northern
visitors who once sailed to Juverna stole from
her and applied to their own great leaders,
with the addition of an idiotic rule of letting
the title thus conferred for merit pass down,
without being earned, from father to son for
generation upon generation, thereby making
the title a byword and contempt.

Some of the elder men of Juverna fulfilled
the custom of retirement to the very letter ;
others followed it honourably, but diverging
from the common course in the details of the
act, filled up the period of retirement from
necessary labour, by voluntary labour in new
paths of wisdom and virtue.

Certain of them contemplated the Divine
power and will, and made known the purity
of the Divine. These were clothed in white
robes in the Council of Tara. Others composed
songs and poems, or extended the arts
of music, painting, architecture, sculpture.

K'2

These, in the grand council, were clad in
robes of the colour of the azure firmament.
A third order, more practical and earthly,
learned from the book of the earth which
Mithra had written with his own mighty
hand. They questioned nature at home, they
travelled and questioned her in her fortresses
and palaces abroad. These wore, in council,
the mantle of the colour with which the
meadows and grassy plains are covered.

Leon has attached himself to the last-named
class, and has become the most famous of all
its members. He has acquired this superiority
by his observations in distant lands. He has
travelled and discovered. His compeers have
wisdom. He has added knowledge to wisdom,
and is rendered thereby much more perfect.
He knows what others away from Juverna
know, while he holds his part of the wise
soul of Juverna as fully as any one of the
grand council.

The result is that he beholds Juverna in
the light of a gem of the sea, exposed to the
most formidable foes.

There are the Eomans, lustful of possession,
nd greedy from that lust to hold far more

than they can command. At the present moment
the Eomans are under the sway of a
man of peace, Hadrian, the would-be great
scholar and philosopher. But what if he
were dead? What if that cold, hard, keen
piece of steel of a man, Julius Severus, so
close at hand, were to get into the Imperial
seat and come down with his overwhelming
machine of soldiers into the happy island ?

In such an event the men, women, and
children were slaves for ever.

He himself, Leon, might be sent to work in
the galleys.

And Erine Leoline, where might she be ?

The prospect is despair.

It is not Eome that has to be feared alone.
About the seas there are floating armies of
northern savages quite as strong, quite as
cruel, quite as greedy as the Eomans, and
with less of the Eoman refinement, which,
bad as it is, is some safeguard. The Eomans
at least have poets, one of whom has glorified
the very state of existence now present in
Juverna, has sung of it as the golden age, the
Saturnian reign ; but those northerners, whose
poets, such as they are, sing in their highest

inspiration the deeds of monsters, monsters of
human flesh and blood, how fearful are they !

Leon, forecasting these dangers, would
under other circumstances have been glad to
have seen his beloved child affianced to one
who is the most accomplished prince in
Europe, and at the same time is well skilled
in the use of arms and the management of
armies. It is known of the soldiers of Aquitaine
that, while brave as lions in war, they
are gentle in peace, and as allies, either in war
or peace, are true and faithful.

An alliance sealed by ties of blood between
Juverna and Aquitaine were indeed a triumph.

I will think no more of it, because it
cannot be,' is the resolve of Leon. Yet he
cannot help the reflection with all his philosophy,
and it might have grown upon him
into some action but for another and more
pressing care.

Leviathan, which by order of Leon has
taken out Simeon and his companion Eli to
Joppa and left them there, has returned ; has
been out, again, making inquiries as to the
fate of Simeon, and is once more back to
Juverna.

The news she brings is not widely divulged,
but whatever the news may be it
produces an effect which all who know the
facts deplore.

It is causing for the first time sadness,
gloom, feebleness in the living star of Juverna,
the lovely Erine Leoline, the apple of the eye
of Leon the Wise. In Juverna there are, asa
rule, no great extremes either of grief or of
mirth. The people are all strong and are all
happy. It is best to define them as a people of
happiness rather than of pleasure, a wide and
marked distinction. They enjoy all nature,
but the enjoyment is equal ; it is happiness,
not that pleasure which means and carries
with it the counterpart of sorrow.

In the diet of the people nothing that
has ever lived as an animal forms a part;
their drink is the pure distillate of the skies.
Their regular habits of rising with the sun,
and of retiring to rest very soon after he has
withdrawn his light ; their freedom from worry
of war, noise of victory, and gloom of defeat ;
their freedom from the clatter of commerce
and madness of barter, — these all conduce to
a dignified serenity of life and health which is

unknown in other historical civilisations, save
and except in the centres of the Ind, from
whom the Juvernians originally migrated, and
whose language and myths they still in great
part retain.

No people can be found who can bear a
domestic or even a national calamity more
serenely than the people of Juverna, and yet
they, in this moment of regret, when the child
of their hearts is in sadness, feel, after a manner
quite special, a depth of human sympathy, for
father and for child, akin to pain.

The sadness is changed by a change in
the lives of those most concerned.

Leon determines on a journey of unusual
length. Leviathan is to be got ready at once
for a voyage that may last two years.

In his anxiety to be faithful and just to
every member of the crew of Leviathan, each
one is apprised that he may have to leave home
and family for a time unnamed, and may have
to encounter unusual difficulties and dangers.
Each one is left at complete liberty to decide
as he wishes, but not one retires from his post
and duty.

The spirits of the fair Erine revive as the

preparations for her journey are carried out,
and on the day of her departure the many
friends who follow her to the southern bay
to witness her departure and pay their farewells
are gladdened by the improvement
which they behold.

Leon's heart is also very glad : his Erine is
a child of health again.

And Leviathan never more gaily or merrily
carries her forth on the crest of the waves
into the open sea.

CHAPTEE IX.

RECALLED TO ARMS.

Julius Severus, Governor of Britain, is alone
in his quarters at Londinum, which at the
suggestion of Caesar is now made the principal
seat of government of the lonely province
over which he rules.

An open volume of one of the only authors
he cares to read lies beside him, and in that
he peruses through the first pages, until he
reaches a line where the Britons are spoken
of as quite disjoined from all the world : —

Et penitus toto divisor ore Britannia'

Then, feeling the full import of the saying,
he casts aside the book and broods in anger.

In truth these Britons, we Britons — for
what am I but one of them ? — are divided from
all the world. Shut off by sea from the whole
world, and with nothing to do but eat and

sleep and fret and fume. What is the worth
of life ? '

The name of Severus is now of itself alone
an army of conquest. Who dares dispute with
it except himself? And for that he hates it.

He has reached the stage of ambition
when, without action, existence is a curse.

His sole resource is hate. He hates everything
!

He hates wine, and yet he holds by it.

He hates Britain, and yet he remains in it.

He hates governorship, and yet he continues
to govern, and would, as soon as look
at him, kill the man who would presume to
fill his place.

He hates Caesar, and yet he serves him.

He hates the gods, and yet he worships
them.

He hates women, and yet he would give
his life for one woman, aye, twenty lives did
he possess them. For one woman he would
sacrifice every faithful soldier under his command
and not for a moment think it a wrong
deed. And she a child of the race he most
of all despises as well as hates !

Severus is mad. It is not wonderful.

All men are mad on something. He is mad
about a woman, the worst of madness ! He
gets a new idea into his mind, which, floating
on in the current of his thoughts, changes into
a vein leading him to a speculation that almost
shakes him into merriment and suggests a question
which comes without being bidden.

^ Why did the gods make women ?

^ When they were making the living world,
why did they not see some way of peopling
the world without sexes ? Surely such clever
spirits who had the game in their own hands,
as it were, could have done something different
and better !

They must have been men themselves !
No, for if they had been they would have been
Adviser.

They must have been women ! No, for if
they had been they would have saved themselves
much suffering, and would have made
themselves stronger than men !

What, then, were they ? '

And here Severus, like many a heathen
philosopher greater than he, gives up the
enigma.

He can rest and think on these subjects

no longer. He must move and get into action,
or he will sink into a despair as bad as the
despair of fear. He must shake off despair.

Call Varus.'

The attendant who has been summoned
to receive this message receives it, and is away
as quickly as his feet can carry him. The
attendant, from some experience, knows the
man from whom the order emanates, and
trembles at an order that portends a hurricane
of anger if Varus should not be found at the
spur of the moment.

Fortunately Varus is near at hand.

While Varus is coming, Severus retires
into his citadel, the room in which his arms,
his maps, his plans, his trophies are collected.

On a wall before him an outline of the
island of Britain has been boldly and skilfully
drawn in charcoal on a white surface.

The interior of the island is also well
filled up, the various Roman stations or camps
being clearly marked with the roads connecting
them ; a network of military lines, with the
distances marked in stadia, eight to a mile.

Picking up the pointed end of a broken
spear he traces out with it a line of march

from Londinum, where he stands, to Ebon,
sixteen hundred stadia to the north. From
Ebon he follows out another line extending
north-west until it faces the sea with the
small island of Mona Tacit lying not many
bowshot from the land. He counts the encampments
on this line of march, and numbers
up the soldiers that are lying in them.

There are twelve camps of considerable
size, from each of which four hundred men
can easily be spared.

Twelve four hundreds, four thousand
eight hundred. An ample number.

Satisfied on this point, his eyes turn once
more to the outline on the wall. He carries
his view across the sea beyond the tiny island
of Mona close on the British coast-line, to
another and much larger island further west.

Juverna I

He measures the distance from Britain to
Juverna at the nearest point from the island
of Mona. ' With a fair wind it is a two days'
voyage. It is rather more than twice the distance
from Dola on the south-eastern coast
across to the shores of Gaul.'

Using the broken spear as a staff he now

paces the chamber, still making various calculations
and plans with an eagerness that
amounts to enthusiasm. His heart warms to
something that is to him pleasurable beyond
all else except one thing. He has hopes of
more victories yet before he dies, and this,
although it is not the chief, is a victory.

His face grows radiant, inspired. He
might be going to do some grand and merciful
deed. He might be about to save some
human souls from misery, pain, death. His
finely chiselled face is lighted up with a truly
brilliant expression, the eye of Cassius, the
brow of the great Julius, the lip of Cicero.

The grand exploit so grateful to him, is
it one of mercy ?

No, indeed ; it is one of rapine, pillage,
murder.

To him these three exploits are no crimes.
They are virtues. By them Eome has been
made what she is.

What she is. Mistress of the world !

*Wouldst thou, Severus, take over thy
four thousand eight hundred armed men to the
Island of Peace and Beauty ; lay waste its
fertile plains ; plant thy savage encampments

in the place of its peaceful cities ; reduce to
submission its gentle and righteous people,
introduce into the homes of such a people all
the miseries and jugglers of thy nation,
money, usury, wages, servitude, robbery, mad
settlement of unnecessary quarrels by so-called
laws, grades, castes, ranks, human deities,
slaves, plagues, pestilences, wine, lust, and
every sink of iniquity which thy Romish
system has developed, fed, and nourished?

Wouldst thou, Julius Severus, man of
many gifts, use thy gifts to bring the island
of the golden age of thine own poets into such
sadness and death ? '

His answer, were it spoken in our ears,
was plain enough : —

Certainly. Why not ? Eomans are fighting
men. War is their nature, and victory is
their glory.'

'Eome, in civilising the world to her fashion,
which is civilisation, has taken upon herself, in
past ages, enormous responsibilities.

~ ' She is a tremendous power and she must,
having become such, be equal to her mission.
In times past, Caesar the great, and Claudius
won Britain by their courage, enterprise,

and genius, and shall this island, naturally a
part of the same country, be under another
power for the sake of a little sentiment or a
little scruple at using the overwhelming force
of Eome to bring her to obedience and give
her lands to Eoman lords ?

We need not slay ; we are too strong for
that.

We may be merciful. We need only
seize, and hold fast when we have seized.

Juverna, as a Eoman province, will be
another gem in the crown of Caesar, a distinction
to Juverna as well as to Eome.

And a protection too. For might not
northern savages, with their white faces and
flaxen hair, and massive limbs, come down on
Juverna if Eome did not ?

Severus will save Juverna, and therewith
himself. It will be pastime for him and add
to his fame. May be the place will take his
name in history. The Isle of Severus. What
a sentence to stand forth in the literature of
the sea ! '

All these thoughts cross the mind of
Severus as fast as he crosses the courts of his
VOL. in. L

house until the announcement of the officer
whom he has summoned to his council.

Varus !

Varus is predestined by his master to bethe
first Governor of Eome in Juverna.

Varus is a tried and proven man : he is an
officer within an officer : he is a part of Severus.
When Severus bids his own right hand to do
some act, he does not expect more of it than
he expects of Varus when he gives the order
to that member of his corps ; and he is never
deceived, never disappointed.

Severus would cut off his own right hand
if it disobeyed him or failed to obey him ; he
would cut off Varus with equal facility for the
same offence or failure, and they both know
the fact with the most perfect and best understanding.


For some time Varus stands mute before
his superior, waiting to be addressed. He
would stand till daylight if it were required of
him.

This time the delay is brief.

Is the report of thy late expedition, good
Varus, ready for my hearing of it ? '

It is, my lord.'

I will take it of thee by question : —

Didst thou cross from the western coast
to the isle of Juverna ? '

I did, according to thy instruction.'

Didst thou see aught of that strange
vessel which wanders over the world at
large ? '

It sailed by our own coast, making for the
south, and almost crossed us in its passage.'

Didst thou demand salutation to Caesar ? '

I did many times, but it made no sign
save that of friendship ; for it, there might be
no such emperor as C^sar.'

Enough ! it gives all the ground of complaint
that one could desire. But what of the
people of Juverna ? '

My lord has but to land with half a legion
and take possession. They cannot kill a bird,
a beast, a fly. It is against their faith.'

We will not kill, Varus, we will not kill ;
we will take, we will take, we will take ; and
until Caesar's will is known thou shalt be
Governor of the island.'

The expression of Varus is beyond description.
It is not altogether an expression
of delight, for a superstitious fear creeps over

L 2

him that Juverna will be an awful place to
govern. He has swept its coasts, and to the
best of his rough ability has talked with its
people, and they, in their poetic and legendary
manner, have told him tales about mountains,
coasts, and caves, and about mysterious beings
inhabiting these silent places, which makes
his blood run cold in his veins. Give Varus
command of a hundred catapults and he is at
home in a moment, but put him in command
of a mysterious place inhabited by spiritual
beings, and what shall he do ?

At one spot where he has anchored on the
coast of Juverna in order to get a supply of
fresh water, the people of the village near the
shore, in their bright and happy way, have
rowed out in their small and exquisite canoes
to welcome and help him. They have been so
fascinating and kind, they have almost softened
his stony heart towards them. The women
have sung him sweetest songs ; the men have
given him their best help and loaded him with
gifts ; the children have danced to him and
nave sat on his knees ; have told him stories
about their dogs and birds ; have asked him to
tell them stories about his children and their

loves, and have fairly brought tears into his
soldierly eyes.

All this is very distressing for Varus to
remember with the picture of his new responsibilities
straight before him ; but the kindness
is after all a minor difficulty compared with
the fearful dread he entertains of the other
occupants of the island, who, although they
are never seen, are, as he knows too well, very
distinctly heard.

Speaking bodies through which he cannot
thrust a sword, towards which he cannot throw
a javelin, at which he cannot cast a stone from
a sling or a catapult, are not quite the subjects
over which he, Varus, would like to rule ; and
he is sure they are there because he has heard
them.

Where he landed, and was treated so
kindly, there was a beautiful bay of white
sand. The sand was completely studded
with shells which were so pretty that even he
was delighted with them.

He has heard, as many other Eomans have
heard the fact, that Hadrian, the reigning
Caesar, is very fond of shells, and has actually
engaged a famous natural history scholar and

pupil of the two Lines, uncle and nephew, to
make for him a collection of shells and arrange
them for his study.

The opportunity must not be lost ; Varus
must gather shells to send to Caesar.

Guided by his companions he came to one
particular spot where the shells were prettiest
and best of all, a wide piece of pure white
sand jutting a little into the sea.

As they reached the centre of this charmed
spot Varus and two of his companion soldiers
who had borne him company were startled
out of all propriety for soldiers of Eome.

Wherever they put down a foot there were
sounds in the air almost directly above their
heads, sounds like those of a man uttering,
in a deep and hollow yet musical voice,
some inarticulate words. Sometimes, if the
footsteps on the sand were gentle, the sounds
were those as of gratitude and relief ; but when
the steps were firm and rude the sounds were
fearful : they were groans, they were screams,
they were showers of sighs like sharp winds
tearing through frozen branches of trees and
breaking them with crispin crashes.

The children of the place could pick up the

shells heedless of the noises overhead. Varus
and his friends, aghast with fear, hasten away
and ask no word of explanation until they are
far from the horrid spot.

The explanation given to them does not
add to their satisfaction.

The voice they heard was the voice of the
god of the winds. In Juverna this god is
always speaking by the sea, but he never hurts
those who are gentle and good. Once a very
bad man landed on the shore, and after being
most kindly treated, killed a native in order
to carry away a goat that he might have had
for nothing if he had only said he wanted it
and had promised to treat it tenderly.

Then the god of the winds got very wrath,
appeared in the shape of a huge scroD of water,
and sweeping along the sea after the boat of
that wicked man, drew up him, with his boat
and all that was in it, a terrific height into the
air, and after dashing him down into the very
bottom of the deep, disappeared in a cloud and
a deluge of rain that made the sea itself boil
and foam like water in a cauldron.

Varus believed the story implicitly. Why
should he doubt it, for had he not himself heard

the voice in all its modulations, save and except
those of passion and revenge ?

And how could he, Varus, rule and govern
powers like these ?

But he dare not dispute, at the moment,
the ruling of Severus, whatever might happen ;
so he merely replied in his laconic style :

I am at my lord's command.'

In a few minutes the orders of the commander
are recorded.

An insult has been paid to Caesar and must
be atoned for.

Let forty of the vessels of war ' — vessels
built under the direction of Severus himself,
' now lying in the great river Thamesisis off
Londinum, be despatched down the river,
along the eastern coast, round by the southern
sea-line to Bolerium, and up by the western
sea to the small island of Mona, and
wait there to convey four thousand eight hundred
men, ready for every contingency of
war.

Let the illustrious Fabius, now fortunately
in the camp, take command, as sub-praetor,
in the absence of Severus

Make ready a flying escort to accompany
Severus on his march to the north, in order to
collect the troops that are to embark for the
conquest of Juverna.

'Let tentative chief and freedman of Eome,
Segonax the potter, remain with the illustrious
Fabius and assist him in the government and
the management of the native powers and
people according to his best wisdom and judgment.


Let a messenger prepare to hasten at once
to Eome to convey to Caesar and the Senate
the resolution of Severus that Juverna, having
through one of her greatest elders insulted
the flag of Caesar, must needs be brought
under subjection to Eome, lest Britain, following
her example, should revolt once more
and overwhelm the Eoman army of occupation.'


Varus is dull in the matter of policy, but
he is not so dull as to be blind to the injustice
of this new humour of his master.

To himself he apologises for his master as
well as himself.

It is hopeless to try to live on in killing
inactivity, and Severus, therefore, is driven

by his own restlessness to war even with this
inoffensive people.

If in their journey to the north news would
but come that the Mseatge had descended to
test the wall of Hadrian, what a grand diversion
that would be !

Juverna might then be saved, and Severus
might have a foe worthy of his consummate
skill and energy.

These are passing waves of hope making
their way through the dense brain of Varus,
and struggling so slowly towards his heart that
they die out ere they reach their destination.

But what is it comes next, and in such a
triumphant wave that it reaches his heart with
a pressure which almost overwhelms it with
delight ?

Varus is receiving the final details of command
and duty, when a messenger who has
lately landed at Dola arrives from Eome,
bringing a message to the Governor of Britain
direct from Caesar and bearing the imperial
superscription.

Head, Severus, read ! Open thine eyes
and read ! Listen, Varus ! Listen !

My Severus,— The Jews of Palestine, led by Simeon,
their pretended king and deliverer, have revolted. They
have taken Joppa, have killed Servien, have fought
successfully a battle at Bethulia, in the heart of Palestine
; have seized many of our camps and have fortified
themselves in the north of GalHee near to the place
where their former leader, Josephus, so long defied
Vespasian.

Tinnius Eurus, Governor of Palestine, implores us from
Jerusalem for thy aid and counsel in war and for thee to
take chief command of the forces of the Province.

I charge thee therefore, having established a proper
substitute in thy place, to proceed at once to Rome, bringing
with thee the Britannic legion and as many ships of
war as thou hast at command, seeing that thou wilt have
to fight thy way into Palestine from the sea.

Bring with thee also the man Segonax the potter asa
visitor to Caesar and a hostage to Ex)me.

Hadrian.

The face of Severus clouds and brightens
as this sudden news surprises him.

Soon he settles into his usual cold demeanour
and Varus takes his new commands.

Let all that I have said be deleted from
thy mind, and in the morning return for the
orders that must then be issued.'

With a bounding heart Varus retires.

With a thoughtful brow Severus sits down
to his new meditations.

With a doubtful fear Segonax hears of his
projected journey to the palace of Caesar .

With a careless pride Fabius, ere he closes
his day, reads and accepts the request of
Severus to act as his deputy in Britain with
Saserna as his trusty counsellor.

In the camp, as the news spreads, many
sobs of women and children are heard.

And, Mithra be praised, Juverna is saved.
The gem of the western sea remains as the
Island of Peace and Beauty

CHAPTER X.

THE Reign OF SIMEON.

The reign of Simon, or Simeon the king,
called also by the enthusiasts of the Jewish
people Bar-Cohab, or Bar-cochran, the Son
of a Star, commences in gloom, but the intense
hatred of the Jews to Rome, Romans, and
Roman rule gives it vitality.

Were Tinnius Rufus a man of real energy
the new reign, notwithstanding all the glory
with which it has been inaugurated, would
soon cease.

Lucius Quietus a Moor, who some years
before put down a revolt similar to that of
Simeon, and who by order of Trajan was
for a time Governor of Judea, would have
made short work of the whole affair. Under
Trajan, in fact, the revolt could never have
proceeded to the extent of the enthronement

of a Jewish king and the establishment of a
new seat of government.

It has been the favourite idea of the Eoman
rulers and philosophers that the Jews are
unfitted for the exercise of an independent
government of their own. It is equally well
believed that they are unconquerable.

A paradox of politics.

Seneca said of the Jews, when they troubled
Nero, that, although they were conquered, they
gave laws to their conquerors.

This was a saying full of wisdom, taken
from nature and from the reading of natural
events. But now the Jews have got beyond
the practice of giving laws to their conquerors ;
they have to give laws to themselves.

The death of Elkanah has thrown a gloom
over the first days following upon the coronation
of Simeon. It has also caused a pause in
the labours of the king and his councillors
which, under the circumstances, is the best
event that can befall him and them.

It brings reflection, it brings prayer, it
brings repose.

On reflection the people feel that an old

man, always a wild enthusiast, one who had
borne untold sufferings for his kindred and
people, became in the triumph of victory
bereft of reason. So they offer up their prayers
for him more fervently that his soul maybe
released from its prison, and in the act
find that holy repose which ever follows the
effort of bearing, in common, the pangs of
sorrow incident upon the loss of those who
have been long known, loved, reverenced, and
trusted.

The days of mourning pass away ; and in
the synagogue Akiba preaches before the king
on the death of one of the king's servants.
Akiba is of all men able to turn the event that
has occurred to the best account. He records
the faithful suffering life that has been lost,
he describes the courageous character who to
the last, like the ancient prophet, denounced
sin. He compares Elkanah to all the prophets
who exalted the good name and good
deeds of the anointed of Israel, and who yet
denounced even the anointed if the anointed
perverted equity, or if the priests should
teach for hire. And he concludes by indicating
how Elkanah, like a true prophet, gave

up his life to his duty, the noblest thing the
noblest and most esteemed of men can do.

The days of mourning are succeeded by
a return to universal rejoicing, followed by a
peaceful calm such as never was felt before
by the Jews of many generations. A council
of state is formed from the wisest of the
people ; schools are placed under the direction
of the ablest scholars ; guilds are duly
established, and all men, according to their
callings, are incited to apply their skill and
their knowledge to the common good. The
sublime art of healing diseases ; and the still
more sublime art of preventing disease by strict
fulfilment of the laws of Moses, adapted to
the new conditions, are sedulously cultivated.
From the elders judges are appointed, who,
favoured by the king and always in his fear,
sit in his royal name and place, dispensing
justice to the people. And, the ceremonies
of the synagogue, under the eye of Akiba, are
made glorious, as means to an end, the grand
end of fostering a godly life and a godly
mind.

To the king himself one special part is
confided, the armed safety of his crown, his

government, and his people. In this part the
king is a perfect master ; a master who can
meet the powerful forces which are likely to
be arrayed against him and his, man to man.
If there be one art which he has learned better
than another it is that Eoman art of war which
Fidelis taught him. A trained athlete, skilled
to perfection in the use of arms, he possesses
the rare faculty of making the art appear to
others a pleasant and captivating pursuit ;
and with this power of teaching practically
the youths under his rule he can also teach
the strategy of the Eoman commanders, together
with the mechanical and engineering
work of Eoman civilisation. He can direct
the construction of fortifications, the laying-down
of roads, and the production and use
of weapons of offence and defence alike.

These qualities of the new king are a host
in themselves, and are backed by another
quality which is alone a host of hosts, namely,
the quality of absolute courage, the best
foundation, personally, of the power of the
Son of a Star.' In his own destiny Simeon
believes as firmly as ever : —

Nothing can make him afraid.'
VOL. III. M

He is not born, like other men, to die and be
no more seen.

Probably none of his youthful scholars
entertain the same belief as attached to themselves.
Yet it mightily exalts their faith and
their enthusiasm to see the belief personified
in one man, and he their leader and king.

In fighting for such a king death has lost
his terrors, since in protecting a life so specially
favoured by the will of the Supreme Euler, the
direct work of that Supreme Will, its inspiration,
its object, its pleasure, is being fulfilled.

They also who believe and fight for this
king fulfil prophecy ; they are the inspired
instruments of inspiration.

The whole vital construction of the new
city and of the new state is in this way
moulded into a form which seems destined to
last for ever. Religion, order, learning, power,
are the foundations of the new kingdom.

From all sides scholars sweep into the new
and beautiful city, to aid in carrying out the
will of its rulers, and soon they form an army
of occupation that promises to defy Eome
not in Palestine alone, but in all parts where
Eoman might prevails. In due course the Son

of a Star sees himself at the head of an army
of two hundred thousand men.

In time this army, grouped in legions after
the manner of Eome, and placed under young
and enthusiastic commanders, is sent out into
the provinces to set up centres there, and
in Palestine there are soon fifty entrenched
schools, or castles as some call them, to which
the king, with his noble body of elects, can
pass to and fro without fear and, indeed, without
the least molestation or hindrance.

To these centres of the army names are
given, derived from the earlier great history
of the Jews, when, as now, they had their
king, their altar, and their home all to themselves
and all their own.

Secure, as they assume, in the substantial
requisites, the rulers of the new kingdom are
quickly alive to the importance of adding
beauty and splendour to their possessions,
and their first care is for their central city,
their New Jerusalem.

By her secret, and some think superhuman,
power Huldah has founded and raised
this city. She has expended her skill on a
site which by natural formation is a type of

1£2

the old Jerusalem. The three walls on one
side are present : a valley divides the place
into two parts : an elevated spot on the
northern side, where the ascent from another
valley forms an easily fortified embankment,
gives a place for the temple. From near this
spot a pool of water supplies the city with the
first of human necessities, like another pool
of Siloam ; and far away to the north-east of
the city rises the beautiful mount of Hermon,
Sirion or Sion, from which the river of the
chosen, the sacred Jordan, takes the first steps
of its southward course past Mount Naphtali
and the Sea of Galilee through the land.

But in the midst of all his fame, his power,
his glory, the newly arisen king feels a
sojourner only in the land over which he
reigns.

Could Erine Leoline be now by his side,
what a king he would be !

Impossible ! she would lend no aid to the
work he has to perform, and his people would
scorn her as an alien to their blood and an
enemy to their race.

The love of Erine separates the king from

his people, and one other influence separates
him still further.

Simeon in his heart knows, instinctively,
that, by blood and racial proclivity, he is not
wholly one of the people he rules. By hidden
sympathy also his people detect this solemn
truth.

He is half Eoman ; he fights like a Eo-man,
he looks like a Eoman, he rules like a
Eoman.'

So says one of the elders to Akiba, and
Akiba is silent, which means more than can
be openly told.

A highway is constructed from the New
Jerusalem into Phoenicia, and the caravans
traverse this highway night and day. The
Phoenicians enter heartily into the spirit of
intercommunication with all lands, and
Phoenicia and Palestine are soon one and the
same in reciprocal sentiments of amity.

Akiba loves Phoenicia. It is the home of
his family and he bears one of its names.

Huldah is smitten with Phoenicia. It protected
her father Elkanah after his crucifixion.
He has told her of the place where he was

concealed following upon that tragic event, and
the name of the family with whom he lodged.
With a kind of prescience that she may one
day have to ask for a repetition of the same
services, and with a desire also to show the
friends of her father her gratitude, she visits
Phoenicia and returns with joy.

Simeon the king loves Phoenicia, for do not
the Phoenicians hold relationships with Britain
and Juverna ?

In the extreme south-western part of
Britain, which stands out like the foot of a
man into the sea, in that part called the
Cassiterides, have they not mines of tin and
other metals ; and going there, do they not
often touch at Juverna?

He has met them in his happiest of happy
days in Leviathan ; and Erine has received
exquisite presents from the hands of their
beautiful and virtuous daughters and sons.

The ports of Phoenicia, the ports of Tyre
and Sidon, are more alive than ever now that
the Son of a Star reigns in Palestine.

One of the captains of a large Phoenician
vessel travels to the court of the new king of

Judea, is long closeted with the king, is
richly entertained, and is dismissed glowing
with admiration at the reception he has secured.


Huldah and Akiba are filled with surprise
at this event, and the more so because it has
made the king so joyful.

Wise as they are, we know more than they
about this captain, a Jew by birth, and called
Eeuben by name.

Eeuben, captain of the vessel of Phoenicia,
has not long since met with Leviathan in the
Great Sea ; has been aboard her ; has conversed
with Leon ; has touched respectfully
the hand of Erine, and has been permitted to
raise it to his lips ; and she has conversed with
him, asking him many things. And now he
is going back to Tyre to embark there for
another voyage to the western island and the
Cassiterides, and, in a few months, will return,
to be once more the honoured guest of Simeon,
the Son of a Star, the king of Israel and
Judah.

In this friendship Simeon the king takes
pleasure. It opens and keeps open the way
by which he can still hold communion with

that which lie most sincerely and earnestly
cherishes : the love without which all the
kingdoms of the world and the kingdom of
life itself were worthless possessions.

While communications are thus being
opened between the court of Simeon and the
outer world, peace reigns in the whole of the
land that is under his sway.

The Eomans for the moment make no
sign. They continue to hold Scythopolis, the
ancient Jerusalem, and Caesarea by the Great
Sea, with some few minor stations or camps ;
and in these they are strongly fortified and
fairly provisioned. But for the moment they
are paralysed, and it is with the utmost difficulty
that Eufus can keep up his communications
with Eome.

Eufus, moreover, is now touched at heart.
The accounts which Boadicea has given him
of the mysterious woman who led her up to the
dome of the Temple, and whom in a superstitious
rather than in any clear historical manner
he connects with the divine protege of old
Fidelis, have filled him with awe. The further
accounts which she, Boadicea, supplies of the
crafty Akiba and of the resolute strength of

Simeon the king, for whom he has an almost
childish fear, tend to unhinge his resolution,
to render him less firm than ever, and more
and more doubted by those who are under
his command.

Most importantly of all, Eufus has changed
mentally in regard to temper. He has not
become vindictive or cruel. Not a bit of it.
On the contrary, he is gentler than he ever has
been, but his usual jovial qualities have drifted
further into sentimental feebleness. His body
is following his face in fatness ; his face is
ruddy still in the cheeks but pale elsewhere, a
very bad sign ; his brow is very pale, and his
red locks and beard are becoming scanty and,
in patches, iron grey. His round laughter is
now easily turned into tears, and when he
tries to sing, he goes back to that early
hobbledy-hoyish period of his career in song,
when, everlastingly falling in love, he was
caught up at last by the strong arms of the
wild and beautiful Boadicea.

By another curious and at the same time
natural anomaly, the changed manner of
Boadicea herself affects him, as a governor,
unfavourably. Boadicea, always at heart

warmly affectionate, has become gentle and
reflective, a change of front which bewilders
him. If she had opposed him as of old, raved
at him, threatened him, some few remaining
sparks of fire, still latent in his poor old hulk,
might have been called forth. But to be
soothed and upheld and cheered and wisely
counselled by her, is more than can be
believed. It recalls to him an old comrade
who, similarly circumstanced, was accustomed
to say of the event : —

Late in life I found a wife,
For whom I would have tarried
To any date, but for the fate
That we were always married.'

Under these different circumstances Eufus,
the Governor of Palestine, partly by inclination
partly by necessity, allows the Pretender of
the New Jerusalem to have his own way with
a freedom which surpasses expectation.

The months gode along, Simeon reigns, and
all looks promising and well.

Looks promising and well, rather than is
of that complexion.

It had been fortunate for the new king if
Rufus had been more active in crushing the

rebellion, or in attempting to crush it, with the
forces under his command, for then Simeon
would have had something to do worthy of his
name, his people would be diverted by war,
and the nations would be stricken by his
mighty deeds.

In the open field he would now beat the
Eomans everywhere, and before they found
time to strengthen themselves and look round
for the utilisation of their outlying resources,
would take all the strongholds of Palestine and
consolidate the whole of his kingdom. Nay,
some of the best Eomans, like Fortunatus,
although they are ashamed of Eufus, have
greater fears than those relating to the loss of
a single little province. They see that if a distinguished
leader, young and brave and handsome,
like Simeon, should make sure of his own
ground in the first instance, and should then
become aggressive, he might, with too much
ease, raise an army that would fight Eome on
her own ground, and gain the control of all
the land and sea under Eoman rule.

The crisis is imminent, and must come but
for the good fortune so often the preventive
of a crisis, namely, the fortune of discord in the

councils of those who hold in their hands the
balance of power.

And now this fortune favours Eome.

King Simeon, long-sighted mentally as well
as physically, sees his chance of being more
than a mere king of a small Eoman province.

He is, as they say of him, half Eoman. He
has the daring and the warlike instincts of
Trajan. He has the prophetic insight of the
Jewish priestess of the temple of Daphne. He
is, in fact, their child, and it was they who
confided him to the care of Akiba, the young
shepherd, by the bright escort which Fidelis
led through the plains of Carmel.

To this natural bent of mind there has been
added to Simeon the king the belief, inspired
by Akiba himself, that he, Simeon, is not only
beyond the reach of death, but that the
kingdom over which he is to reign is the
kingdom of the earth, a kingdom that shall
have no end until he has put all his enemies
under his feet.

This is no more, no less, than the fulfilment
of the glorious prophecy.

Palestine, a province like that of Siluria in
the little remote island of Britain, shall that

feed this content or contain him, Simeon, the
Son of a Star,' the preordained, ere ever the
earth or sea were laid ?

The thought is imbecile.

And beyond all these flights of ambition
and hope there exists in his inmost heart
two deeper and stronger inspiring impulses
towards the extension of his influence and his
glory.

He knows the fearful fact that Juverna is
not safe ; she is beautiful, she is peaceful, she
is all that human heart could wish, she is
all that human mind could desire, but in an
infinitely savage world she is every hour in
danger of death.

Juverna is a gem of the sea in a nest of
robbers and spoilers. Let him, Simeon, be her
protector and abiding friend. It is a strong
impulse, generous, and in its way noble, but
feeble by the side of another that inspires
him, and fills all his bounding nature.

He, Simeon, will be crowned again ;
crowned not king of a province but of all
the earth. And, by his kingly side shall sit,
equal with himself in power, and surpassing
all the world in sweetness and in beauty,

Erine Leoline, the lioness with the woman's
heart.

To Eeuben the merchant of Tyre Simeon
has committed two despatches, the one for
Leon, the other for Erine. In them he has
poured forth all his hope, all his love, all this
soul.

Little fit to be king of a chosen people he
who has exported to another home his hope,
his love, his soul !

CHAPTEE XI.

THE Foot OF ALL EVIL.

Up to this time in our history all the great
events leading to the marvellous success of
the famous revolt of the Jews and their mastery-over
Eome in Palestine have been due exclusively
to three persons — Akiba, Huldah,
Simeon.

And so far the success has stood in their
names in the order in which the names are
placed on this page.

Could these three remain united in
thought, action, power, Simeon would reign
in peace and Israel would be entirely free.

Unfortunately for Israel, such a combination
is impossible. Nature cannot have it.
Nature of her own royal will and pleasure
separates aU independent, powerful, and gifted
minds widely apart from every vital centre.

If this were not her plan, combinations

absolutely ruinous to the masses of mankind
would make all the world the permanent
slaves of a few able and designing spirits.

So, in the natural development of events
in Palestine, the unity of her three great
spirits is ruthlessly, steadily, and inevitably
broken.

Akiba remains the enthusiastic scholar ;
a scholar who looks upon the written inspiration
of the chosen people as the light of the
coming ages which he was born to lay up ina
kingdom of its own, a kingdom to which
the world will come for irradiance, and from
which it will be fed with the learning that is
life of life to mankind, the life, the life of the
soul.

Towards this great end Simeon the king
is the physical and ordained instrument,
nothing less and certainly nothing more.

Huldah remains the divine prophetess of
Israel, Her skill, her divination, her miraculous
powers are but for duties ; they fill her
with no other pride, no other wish to rule or
to be thought great. Why should they ? She

is great whether she may like it or not. To
proclaim such a fact were ridiculous ; it
proclaims itself on every side, beyond any
disputation.

Even Caesar has declared it.

But her greatness is all for her people.
Apart from them she has no care. To take
part in the governance of another people were
to her mind a sin past all hope of pardon. For
the realisation of her beliefs she would sacrifice,
and is ready to sacrifice, every tie, every
personal gratification. Her life is bound up
with the fate of her race, and here she rests.

Has she not already shown her deep
humility and sufferance, her sublime obedience
to the eternal law-giver ?

Simeon the king from her earliest day
was her love of loves. She has known no
other. If in her heart she did ever wish to bethe
sharer of a throne which she has done so
much to raise, it was only that she might bethe
sharer also of his heart and be one with
him.

That spell broken, the truth revealed that
this union cannot be, she submits to bear
the pain of soitow for the death of one who

VOL. III. J^

lives. She becomes the virgin of the Lord,
and bears the abnegation from the world with
saintly grace.

Blessed be the righteous Judge.'
All her care, all her sufferings, are now
for Israel alone. Not one man or woman
living would dare propose to her to extend
her holy mission out of the pale of the chosen
race. The most impious would not dare to
make so rank a suggestion.

Simeon remains as Simeon, the '^ Son of a
Star,' according to his own views of his star-ship,
and that steamship is the ray of Trajan,
which would include the whole human
sphere, if it could be so included, into its
embrace. He will be up and doing. He will
march at once on old Jerusalem. He will
drive the imbecile Eufus into the middle sea
of the earth. He will make Joppa a seaport
of magnitude. He will march into Egypt ;
he will descend on Cyprus ; he will lie in
wait for Eome herself.

And, at all hazards, he will save Juverna
from Julius Severus, the Eoman wolf of
Eoman Britain.

Filled with these exalted ideas, which
with his natural reticence he keeps entirely
to himself, Simeon the king visits all the
castles under his sway ; visits Joppa, surveys
the coast, and returns to the seat of his
kingdom ready for aggressive war.

Ready in all equipments except one, the
most important of all, and one he has neglected
most, neglected profoundly.

Money ! money ! money !

Akiba and Huldah, for the work they have
in view, can do without money for a long
season, if not for good. They know that their
castles axe well armed and provisioned, and
that their valiant armies require no pay. Let
them make all Palestine a free kingdom,
seize every Eoman stronghold, make peace
with Hadrian, and then the question of money
will come naturally to the front and will admit
of easy solution. But influences are at work
to frustrate this wise intention, influences
they had never for a moment foreseen and are
quite unable to overcome.

In the first place, the rapid success of
Simeon and the succession of prosperous
events to Israel have made the people feel,

N 2

too early, that they are consolidated into a
nation that is not only capable of managing
its own affairs but of opening business negotiations
with other nations far and wide. Look
at the Phoenicians how they buy and sell and
sail abroad, and return with money and
merchandise. And what are the Phoenicians ?
They are not so clever and not so learned as
the Jews, and never were ; what a Phoenician
can do a Jew can do any day, if the means
be given to him to carry out that which
his genius suggests.

And is it not, has it not been from the
most ancient times, the genius of the Jew to
amass wealth and grow rich ?

The conquering Jews are too easily tempted
by these persuasive thoughts. The thoughts
suit and beguile the race.

The one thing wanted for the development
of the beguilement is the root of all evil,
money ! money ! money !

For a long time past in Palestine the
coins and the currencies have been Eoman.
During the reigns of the Heroes the coins in
use had, with one exception, been struck by
them, and carried their distinctive sighs. Afterwards,

from the deposition of Herod Archelaus,
when Judea began to be ruled by the procurators
of Eome, the coins had borne the imperial
impression, the head of Caesar. Later on, when
the Jews revolted under the reign of Nero,
new and special Jewish coins were struck of a
strictly national character. The effigy of the
Emperor of Eome, so distasteful to the Jewish
mind, was defaced, and the simple but beautiful
sign of a vase and palm branch, with the
name of Eleazar the Priest on the obverse,
and with a cluster of grapes with the number
of the year of the redemption on the reverse,
constituted a new coinage.

These native coins, modified so as to be
made more beautiful, were rendered valueless
as currency after the defeat of the Jews by
the Vespasian, and once more the coins of
the Emperors became the currency of the
conquered province.

The head of Caesar bought and sold the
blood of the people.' So ran the lamentation.


To make the bondage the more bitter, some
coins were struck by the conquerors to commemorate
the defeat of the conquered.

The Eoman coinage in these days of
triumph, when Simeon the King, the ' Son of a
Star,' reigns, are not to be tolerated. The hated
effigy of Caesar is a sign of conquest intolerable
to a freed nation.

A preposterous contradiction.

So now the root of all evil comes to the
fore; sure and certain root of evil now as
ever.

Akiba and Huldah see the evil and do all
they can to hold it back. In vain. Simeon
the King is with the people in this matter. He
must have money, he must open commerce
with other nations in the name and superscription
of his own country. He must have
money ! Jewish money !

It is only to take the Eoman coins already
extant, stamp out the head and front and sign
and word of the tyrant, and substitute other
signs and words and all is done. Jewish
coins will then float at once, and in good tide
making trade and commerce easy between
Palestine and all the world.

Win the world first, and trade afterwards,'
is the wisdom of Akiba.

He that builder his house with other

men's money is like one that gathered himself
stones for the tomb of his burial,' is
the wisdom of the Prophetess, Huldah. the
child of Elkanah, reflected from her book of
books.

No nation is free that uses the coinage
of another. The head of Caesar in Palestine
is the mark of the master and tyrant of
Palestine.' These are the answer? of simeon.

It is just to Simeon to say that his people,
as a whole, share in this idea. Whether
they would do so if they knew the secret
springs of his policy is another question ; but
from what they do know and from what they
feel they are in this matter at one with him.

The result is inevitable, as Akiba and
Huldah acknowledge. They two are not less
powerful, not less beloved than they were,
and if they had any valid reason for opposing
the desires of the people they might have their
will. But they see the desire for a national
currency, and they see also the absurdity of
circulating the effigy of Caesar, from whom they
have rebelled.

What can they do ?

Akiba asks for time to think, and then

suggests a plan which he trusts will meet the
difficulty.

In the last revolt, as we have seen, coins
were struck bearing the name of Eleazar the
Priest. To this day in Jewish houses these
coins have, for forty years past, been treasured
up. The Eomans have forbidden their use,
and as monies they have been useless, but
they have been kept. Why not re-establish
this old coinage ?

The question is publicly mooted, and the
answer is unfavourable. The coins are traditionally
discredited amongst the nations.
No man has been able to pass them, and the
Phoenicians will have nothing to do with them.
Any coin that will pass at present must be
one in accord with the time, and must bear
the authority of the new order of things and
events, of the new government of Simeon, the
Son of a Star.

Another devise is next suggested from the
same prolific source, and is of the following
character.

When Akiba humbled himself to become
the sword-bearer of Simeon, he ceased to be
chief of the grand Sanhedrin, and was succeeded

in that distinguished office by a second
Eleazar, one of the most learned of the priests,
a man who, being far advanced in years, was
inclined to exhibit a cautious opposition to the
revolt, in which some of his colleagues shared.
But for the restraining influence of Akiba,
the Sanhedrin itself would, therefore, divide
into two sections, and, as it is, it has refused
to sit in the New Jerusalem, selecting
instead the little centre of Ischia. Here
then is an opportunity ; let the new coinage
be issued by Eleazar, chief, of the grand
Sanhedrin. This will conciliate Eleazar and his
party ; it will give him and them a share in
the revolt, it will involve them in the rebellion
against Rome ; and, in the end, it will lead
them to become one with Simeon and his
cause.

Before unfolding the scheme Akiba visits
the Sanhedrin, persuades Eleazar to undertake
the duty if he be called upon by the king, and
returns to Simeon with the design completely
developed from his ever-fertile brain.

Simeon listens to the proposal with dislike
really in his heart. He has a boundless
ambition, and is determined that his own

name shall go down to the ages on the face
of imperishable money. A city may be destroyed,
a kingdom may be conquered or
reconquered ; a reign may cease ; but the
name of a king stamped on everlasting brass,
or silver, or gold, and passed every hour from
person to person all over the habitable world,
that indeed is immortality. A man can never
die whose name is stamped on a coin of the
world. The coin may cease to be of value asa
passable thing, as money, but as a relic it
must always live.

At the same time the words of Akiba are
wise, and his counsel must in some way be followed.
Eleazar the chief of the Sanhedrin is
not a man whom Simeon likes. In his, Simeon's
view, Eleazar is at heart with the Eomans,
plays with Eome, is perhaps in communication
with Eufus, the governor at old Jerusalem,
and with that free lance of Eoman politics,
Fortunatus, the bosom friend of Hadrian.
Eleazar must not be trusted too much, but if
he issues coins he becomes a chief of rebels,
which will bring him over to Simeon.

The policy is sound.

Yes, and there is another argument. The

Jewish people, of all people in the world, are
traditional. In the previous revolt the chief
of the priests issued the money that passed for
the convenience of commerce. There are still
the coins in evidence. This is a precedent,
and a precedent with a Jew is the best law.

One more argument clenches the policy.
The Jew is singularly a devotional being. He
loves the synagogue, he all but worships the
supreme council of all the synagogues. He
obeys the commandments. If then the new
coins issue from Eleazar Nasi, the chief of
the Sanhedrin, they will bear his honoured
name, they will bear the authority of the
sacred council, and they are sure to be free
of any brazen image of a king to which a man
might bow down and worship.

Eleazar must certainly, under these circumstances,
strike money bearing his name and
office, Eleazar Nasi, chief of the Sanhedrin.

But may there not be a compromise ? On
some coins let the name of Simeon appear.

This is not much, surely, for a king to ask,
and it is conceded without demur. The types
of the monies issued may be the same on all
coins, the names different on some.

The issue of the coins commences straightway.
As the Jews are not ready to mint fresh
money, they take the Eoman coinage, efface,
as far as they are able, the Imperial head and
superscription, and in place of that which is
effaced plant their own devices.

Simeon himself superintends the skilful
workmen who carry out the project in regard
to the coins bearing his name.

On the obverse of the defaced coin let
there be impressed a wreath including within
it the name of the king, Simeon. On the
reverse let there be a vase and palm branch
with four words, suggested by the divine
Huldah, " The deliverance of Jerusalem." '

To this command one more is added, to
the wonder of many.

'Let the coins of Trajan be those used
for this device.'

The coins of Trajan are collected from far
and near, they become for a time above their
ordinary value in the markets of Tyre and
Sidon.

When they reappear in their new guise,
which is here faithfully depicted, an eye in the
secret may detect, from traces of the original

stamp, that Trajan fathers the coins of Simeon
the Son of a Star.

The production of the new coinage becomes
a passion with the king. He designs other
devices. On the obverse of certain coins he
stamps a cluster of grapes, signifying richness
and joy, with the name of Simeon, and on the
reverse he modifies the impression ; he replaces
the vase and palm branch by a three-stringed
lyre in remembrance of his joyous reception
by the people, and instead of the words, ' for
the deliverance ' he puts ' for the redemption
of Jerusalem.' In another instance he
keeps the words ' for the deliverance,' but
inserts two trumpets in substitution for the
lyre or the vase and palm branch.

Then he changes both impressions. On
the obverse he plants a palm tree with his
name, and on the reverse a vine leaf with the
words ' For the deliverance.'

Again he makes the obverse a palm tree

with his name, and the reverse a cluster of
grapes with the usual words ' For the deliverance.'


Once more he strikes a shekel with the
gates of the Temple surmounted by a star on
the obverse, and a bundle of palm, myrtle,
and willow (Lulab) and the citron (Ethrog) on
the reverse. In the second year of his reign
he grows bolder, he adds the date to his name,
with a cluster of grapes, on the obverse ; and,
a vase with a palm branch signalised by the
words ' Second year of the deliverance of
Israel' on the reverse.

In yet another series he puts his name
within a wreath on the obverse, with other
designs varied from those named above and
marked as the second year, on the reverse.

But through all the series the traces remain
of a coin of Trajan always more or less
conspicuously. The two trumpet coins have
the letters ' TE. (Trajan) ' left boldly on their
margin.

By these many coined devices the Son of
a Star hopes to pass through the ages. Some
day he may claim the right to issue, under
his o.vn royal sign, stamped with his Imperial

profile and that of Erine, the coinage of the
whole earth, for in him the blood of Trajan
rises to fierce heat of conquest, and glows
with the enthusiasm of the Jewish Priestess of
the oracle of Daphne, where the god fills the
sanctuary.

Akiba watches these strange vagaries of
his pupil and king with a doubtful understanding.
He reads the ambition, but reads
it only by the light of his prophets and by his
own nature.

Huldah watches likewise, and interprets
the whole thought — interprets it better than
Simeon himself, for he is in a dream with his
eyes open, and she, with her eyes open and
watchful, taking in things which other eyes
overlook or do not discern, is awake. She sees
the new coins float into the markets of the
world ; the coins bearing the name of Simeon
and the coins bearing the name of Eleazar
Nasi, the coins of the Sanhedrin, and she
foresees danger.

It is unfortunate that the coins of Eleazar
are more prized than those of Simeon. It is
still more unfortunate that the Roman people
themselves allow the coins of Eleazar to pass

while they reject those of Simeon ; and that,
seeing this, the Phoenicians and others who are
neutral merchants between the new kingdom
of Israel and the old Empire of Eome show
the same predilection.

The difficulty is quite naturally developed.
The Sanhedrin is a body which Eome has
tacitly recognised. It claims also the respect
of Eome. At present it is between two fires,
it is forced by the popular will to favour the
rebellion, but it is not in heart with it. It
has been forced to issue a new coinage which
it would throw up at a moment's notice and
restore to Eome if the power of the rebel
Pretender were shaken. Let then the money
of the Sanhedrin, if there must be Jewish
money, have its course, but let the Pretender
have no chance with his debased and defaced
currency. Such is the will of Eome.

One day Eeuben, the captain of the
merchant ship of Tyre, returns to the palace
of Simeon, bearing costly gifts gathered in
many lands for the king.

The gifts are spread out in the palace for
aU to see ; they are the indications of the

esteem, the honour, the reverence in which
the king is held abroad as well as at home.

The rich gifts conceal what Simeon and
the captain of the merchant ship of Tyre
alone know of.

All the gifts have come from the rich
'Leviathan,' and one of them encloses the
dearest treasure of them all, a letter from the
idol of the King of the Jews.

Never in her life did Erine Leoline shine
out more unspeakably lovely than in this
message to her betrothed and royal lover ;
never did woman born breathe purer, nobler
words. In simplest artlessness she tells the
story of the Prince from Aquitaine, his hopes,
his promises, his desires, and her response.
She tells how deep is her grief at being separated
from him who is to her the life of her
life ; but she knows how much more he has
to bear, and she will wait and wait, for him or
for death.

The letter of the sweet Erine is of itself
enough to raise the king to new action, but
another factor is called forth next in strength
of passion to the passion of love — the passion
of pride.
VOL. in.

The captain of the merchant ship of Tyre
has merchandise to sell according to his trade,
and the friendly king, ready to buy all that
the merchant would dispose of, tenders, by his
treasurer, payment in his own coin.

Arrow of arrows ! dagger of daggers !
poison of poison ! The coin is refused.

'Will my lord the king kindly pay his
servant in the coins of the Sanhedrin bearing
the name Eleazar Nasi, since they alone will
pass out of Palestine, and they the Eomans
themselves will accept like their own.'

Happy is it for the captain of Phoenicia
at this juncture that he is an ambassador to
Leviathan, or such unwelcome news might
cost him his life.

The captain of Phoenicia is paid duly in
the money he desires to hold. The King of
the Jews has paid the debt in tears of blood
and shame !

For two days after Eeuben of Tyre has
left the palace on his new and important
journey, the king is not seen by his people.
The king,' it is said, ' mourns the loss of his
friend.'

When the king comes forth again he has
changed in appearance and spirit. He is more
kingly than before: he is defiant, commanding,
irresistible.

My son,' asks the startled yet almost
cowed Akiba, ' by what means art thou
changed from a king to an emperor ? '

By the will of Him that sent me,' is the
stern response.

To none except to Huldah does this
changed nature speak as before. He is now ?
ruler indeed. To Huldah he is still all gentleness,
and yet to her, although he listens as
she gives counsel, he pays no real heed.

His orders go forth without demur.

Let every man make ready for war, foi
the investment of Scythopolis on the northeast
; for the capture of Caesarea on the
great western sea ; of Caesarea Philippi on the
north-east ; and for taking possession of
the Holy City, the ancient Jerusalem, in
the south.'

The orders are obeyed with an enthusiasm
brilliant as ever. No man hesitates ; no
woman sheds a resistant tear.

Huldah, with the faithful Eh, is left in

supreme command of the city lie has raised
for the king.

Abner with a powerful army is to be
despatched to invest Scythopohs. Manasseh,
an officer of the body-guard, is chosen by lot
for command of the forces directed to Caesarea
on the borders of the great sea ; Joshua, also
of the body-guard, is chosen, in the same way,
to march with another body of picked men to
Caesarea Philippi. The king himself, accompanied
by Akiba the sword-bearer, takes in
charge the main army to proceed southern-ward
for the conquest of the Holy City.

The four grand armies, ready to march,
assemble together on the plain for final review
by their lord and king, ere they depart on
their respective services. They divide at
once into the four divisions waiting the word
of command to start on their different ways.
In the centre of the four squares the king
sets up his standard, from whence, accompanied
by the divine Huldah, he rides in
triumph through all the hosts, giving his final
orders, cheering them with magnificent words,
and impressing on them wise and soldierly
counsel.

Eeturning at the head of his body-guard
to his standard, he meets there Eleazar Nasi
and the members of the grand Sanhedrin, who
have been summoned from Ischia to this ceremonial
of the ' going forth,' and who dare not
disobey. Akiba and Eleazar stand apart as
the ' Son of a Star ' returns to his place. The
Sanhedrin stands in the rear, in wonder not
unmingled with fear.

With cold and yet gentle manner the king
greets Eleazar and his colleagues. There is
majesty in the act, but it is the majesty of
pride.

Drawing up his steed and removing from
his brow the diadem bearing on its front
the blazing star, Simeon addresses his chief
visitor.

On the morning of a great going forth of
the people, I have sent for thee. Father of
the Synagogues, that thou mayest bless the
work of our hands.'

Without a word of reply the trembling
Eleazar proceeds to perform his sacred duty.
He walks with solemn tread through all the
ranks, and with hands raised, withered and
aged hands, which his friends have often to

sustain, delivers his blessings from almost
speechless lips. Coming back to the place
of the standard, he has to be put into a seat
lest he should fall to the ground.

The chief officers are brought to his feet
to receive his benediction. Akiba himself
kneels, and Huldah follows. One only remains
unblessed : The Son of a Star !

Dismounted, divested of his arms and
armour, but wearing the royal mantle and
diadem, Simeon, Bar-cochran, stands alone
before the chief of the Sanhedrin.

A battle wages in his heart. Shall he bid
the trembling priest defiance as a secret foe ;
or shall he, like the rest, kneel for the holy
benediction ?

In plainer terms, shall he show his trust in
Eleazar Nasi as the chief of all the synagogues
; or his doubt of him, as the concealed
friend of Eome and Eoman power ?

He hesitates. It is the hesitation of a
mere moment, but it is enough. Eleazar, weak,
peevish, old, translates it into evil.

The better nature of the king or his wiser
nature prevails. He takes the royal mantle
off his shoulders, hands it with the royal

diadem to Abner his best beloved in command,
and, kneeling before Eleazar, prays as
one of old : —

Bless me, even me also, oh my father ! '

Two words only pass the aged lips in
response : — ' Bar Cosiba,' which, being translated,
means ' Son of Lies.'

It is said in a tone so low that four alone,
Simeon, Huldah, Akiba, and Abner, hear it
uttered.

As though he had received the holiest
blessing, the king bows low his head ; then
rising majestically he resumes his royal attire,
with Abner's aid, at some distance apart.

Whilst the re-robing proceeds, the faithful
Abner takes from his master a command,
touching Eleazar Nasi.

He has sold himself to Eome ; he has
despoiled my coinage ; he has slandered the
name of the Anointed. As the Lord liveth
I charge thee, Abner, under whose hand he
abideth, that he do no further evil.'

Eleazar Nasi, is borne away by his
attendants ; the order of separation and
march is proclaimed ; the sightseers, headed
by Huldah, return to the city. Manasseh

heads his troops westward towards Caesarea
on the coast of the middle sea of the earth.
Joshua heads his troops towards Caesarea
Philippi on the north-east border of the land ;
Abner leads his troops towards the northeastern
Scythopolis, taking with him the ill-starred
Eleazar ; and Simeon, the king, leads-his
troops due south towards the Holy City.

When the sun goes down these different
legions of armed men ready for war are faraway
from each other, each longing to be
first in the toils of war and fruits of victory.

Widest apart are Simeon the king and
Eleazar Nasi, the chief of the Sanhedrin.

The Son of a Star marches towards the
Holy City under an old name, but new as
applied to him. — The Son of Lies !

Eleazar Nasi is borne towards Scythopolis
also under an old name, but new as applied
to him. — The Son of the Dead !

CHAPTER Xn.

THE TRUCE OF VICTORY.

Simeon the king goes forth a conqueror,
having in the land of his people, the Land of
Promise as they declare it, little left to conquer.
The fall of four Roman strongholds, soon to
be cut off from all easy communication with
the world around them, must be a task of little
difficulty with four such armies as he has at
his command, and this task accomplished he
will indeed be a king. Then the old Jerusalem
shall rise from its ashes, the glorious temple
shall spring up, on its original site, more
glorious than ever, all Palestine shall become
a fruitful field, and the nations around her
shall hear her voice and be glad.

Nor shall the triumph stay with triumph
in Palestine. Joppa, the sea gate of Jerusalem,
shall be further fortified and made a port for
the nations, so shall Caesarea and other places

on the coast leading to Tyre and Sidon. Tyre
and Sidon shall also be made gates of Palestine.

And when Israel has gates of the sea her
ships and men shall go forth from those gates
to travel and to trade and to fight and to conquer.
The land, it is true, is small, not much
more on the face of the earth than one strong
fortress ; but with the sea for her possession,
with her armed galleys in every port, on
every hundred leagues of the ocean, what has
she to fear ? She will break forth on the
waters, with the four winds, and no one shall
restrain her.

The sons and daughters of Israel shall
explore the earth, shall people the earth in its
unknown parts with their own blood. They
shall go forth and multiply and replenish the
earth, even as the stars of heaven, and in them
shall all the nations of the earth be blessed.

Eome shall bend her proud head : the barbarians
of the forbidding north shall retire
beyond their ice-bound frontiers, and shall
curse the seas no more.

Hadrian may rule the land, Simeon shall
rule the sea.

Brighter visions rise as these triumphs are

determined on in the mind of the Son of a
Star.

That dear Juverna shall have its protector.
Juverna shall remain the gem of the
sea, free and independent, peaceful and beautiful
as ever. But, she shall no longer monopolise
the one living glory of the earth.

If he, the Son of a Star, shall be lord of
the sea, Erine shall be its queen. Her mantle
of emerald shall be spread out until its expanse
is illimitable and its motion discernible
in every tide.

Dreaming out these resolves Simeon, the
Son of a Star, marches with his host towards
the Holy City.

Fifty of the strongest fortresses and
nearly a thousand villages and towns own his
sway. The Holy Qty itself will soon be at
his feet. He is marching on from victory to
victory.

In his way southwards he inclines rather
towards the east, in the line of the Jordan ; by
which he keeps up a more convenient communication,
through special messengers, v^ith
his trusty lieutenant Abner, now lying before
the Eoman fortress of ScythopoHs, and thus he

comes to the valley of Salem, where for the
first time in his triumphant journey he is met
by the Eomans in force.

His scouts bring him word of the position
and quality of the enemy. The Eomans are
six thousand strong at the least. They have
fortified their position ; they have formed
communication with the Holy City as their
base of operations ; they are under the immediate
command of Eufus ; and, they are
ready to intercept all further progress of him
whom they now call Simeon the rebel Pretender,
on whose head, alive or dead, a magnificent
reward is set.

The opposition is natural enough, and
indeed all that might be expected by a cautious
nature. To Akiba the news comes as a
matter of course, and to the Jewish army
as a matter of delight.

The army is anxious for a change of action,
is anxious for victory at any moment, at
any place, and at any cost. Simeon shares in
feeling with his army, but he is not so joyous.
His ardent nature has received two unexpected
checks. His name of magic and might
has been changed from the Son of a Star to

the Son of Lies, and his entry direct into the
Holy City has been stopped at Salem.

True, the new name given to him is but
the gibberish of an ambitious and peevish old
man in his dotage. Still the man is one who
has entered the sanctuary. Nay ! after all, may
not the mission on which he has started be a
mission of deception ? May not Akiba in his
early life have been deceived ? And, if so, may
not he Simeon be, in fact, although innocently,
a son of les ?

It is true, that the Eoman leader who is
now opposing him is only Tinnius Eufus of
Britain, who has never before led a body of
troops in all his boisterously merry life. And
how shall such a leader cope with the conqueror
of Valerius, once the trusted lieutenant of
Trajan? Still the soldiers are Eoman, the
defences are strong, and the stake momentous.

Such balancing of sentiments, so different
in kind, is a new task for Simeon, and
binds him more closely and firmly than ever
to himself and to silence. He adds to the
doubting side of his thoughts the remembrance
most painful of all, that the coins of the king
are as refuse of coinage in his own royal

kingdom. Goscius, the treasurer of' Leviathan '
herself, would not accept the coins except
as things that should be kept because they
are curious and may remain in history as
marking the epoch of a crowned king who
never really reigned.

Intolerable ! The contemplation stings
the king into fury, and therewith makes him
an emperor once more.

He will deal out to this foolish Eufus and his
legion a swift destruction ; they, one and all,
shall fly before him like chaff before the wind.
Eufus and they that are with him shall be
crushed like stubble under his feet. They who
fly shall be as chaff, they who fall shall be as
stubble.

Eufus, foolish as he may be, has for once
been active. He has selected a good site for
encampment in a situation commanding the
valley, and he has constructed a camp that
would easily accommodate the whole of a legion
with its attendant auxiliaries. The length of
his camp is seven hundred and seventy Eoman
feet, the width of it five hundred and forty
feet. He has divided it lengthways by one
wide street, with the Decunun gate at the

one end, the Praetorian gate at the other. He
has crossed the long street with two streets
near each end, one wide and the other narrow,
enclosing within them four grand quadrangles ;
and he has surrounded the whole with an intervals
or entrenched space,' of considerable
strength and character.

The camp of Eufus lies straight across the
path of the invader. To pass it would be
to expose the invader to the most harassing
attacks in the rear of his force. It would also
mean the cutting off of his return towards
Galilee.

Simeon making his survey with his bodyguard
takes in all the facts at a glance, and
makes up his mind without a moment's
hesitation.

He must drive Eufus from his lair, and
use the camp of Eufus for his own strategical
purposes. Midway between the new and the
old Jerusalem, it is a place to him of so
much importance that it seems formed for him
expressly if he can only get into it.

The mind of the king made up, his plans
are devised with all the boldness and rapidity
of thought and action by which he is inspired.

At this moment Rufus has no inkling of
the actual force which Simeon has at his command.
Simeon has fifty thousand men. They
must be instantly divided and utilised for rapid
and decisive action.

Dividing the force into five equal portions,
one is directed to fall a few miles back towards
the new Jerusalem; a second is to move
westward towards Shechem ; a third is to
march towards the Holy City by the western
side of the camp of the enemy ; a fourth is to
proceed in the same direction on the eastern
side ; and, the final division, with Simeon in
person, is to move straight towards the camp as
if he were about to assail it with the main body
of his advancing force on its northern face.

With the morning the main body is to
advance and to call on Eufus to surrender.
This demand, which is sure to fail, failing,
Simeon is to make not simply a feint but a
veritable attack on the Eoman entrenchments,
during which attack the two wings right and
left will be able to get to the southern side
of the camp, between it and Jerusalem, unite
too-ether and carry on an assault of their own
on the southern side. Meanwhile reinforcements

are within a day's call ready to march
in and hold the camp should it be taken ; or
to march down upon Jerusalem the Holy City.

There is no failure at any point in the carrying
out of this plan. By the time the first
rays of the sun shine forth Simeon is before
the Koman camp. During the night dew has
fallen heavily, and a dense haze has concealed
the movements of all the divisions of his army,
so that his own division, within bow-shot of the
sentinels of Eufus, is discovered as if a cloud
had let it down from the skies, and his arrows,
having the wind with them, fly so dexterously
that the first news Eufus gets of the attack is
conveyed with the fact that ten of his soldiers
have fallen at one onslaught of the enemy.

Eufus is waking from his morning sleep
when this news falls on his ear. Oh that
Boadicea were with him to steady his courage
and guide him in the right way !

His bold and practised men are making a
good defence, and the enemy does not seem
numerous ; but their arrows are so deadly
the Governor must not think of going out to
the ramparts without armour.

Suit upon suit of armour is brought, but

VOL. III. P

not one suit will fit the burly body of the
Governor of Jerusalem.

Unprotected by any plate of armour, the
unhappy Eufus, striving to stir up his courage
with a draught of Valerian, moves from
his quarters, surrounded by his guards, along
the principal street of the camp towards the
principal gate in the rear. On the bridge over
this gate he stands, and Iron it sees the battle
that is going on in the entrenchments on the
opposite side. Here he gives out the word of
command.

Tell them to fight on and hold the entrenchments.'


An arrow from the enemy whizzing past
him leads him to look behind to see where it
might, perchance, fall. It is a fortunate look,
for there in the far distance he catches sight
of the first signs of the invaders from the
west ; then turning round in alarm he catches
sight of another body of invaders to the east.
The two bodies of men, he detects, are converging
so as to meet in the centre of the
rear of his camp in order that all retreat that
way may be cut ofi*.

An idea at once patriotic and deep strikes

the pallid brain of Eufus. He is seized with
remorse. In his desire to achieve military
fame and glory he has shamefully left his
proper post of duty.

What will Jerusalem do in this crisis without
its ruling head ?

What will Boadicea do without her liege
lord ?

Not an hour, not a minute, must be lost.
Before those bodies of men meet by their convergence
towards the camp Eufus must be on
his way back to his post as governor. As a
general he is useless ; he will away to his proper
place in Jerusalem.

Full of this resolve he sends for his second
in command, the heroic Cotta.

Alas, alas ! the reply !

Cotta is already amongst the slain.'

Led no longer by a tried master in generalship,
the Eoman troops keep order, nevertheless,
splendidly, and perform the most prodigious
feats of valour. The Jews have mounted
the trenches as two to one ; but still, hand to
hand, the Eomans fight until a remnant only?
and these horsemen mainly remain in the
body of the camp.

p 2

They bring news to the trembling Eufus
of graver and graver import as the defeat
grows more certain, and, at last, when one of
the bravest of brave officers tells him that to
hold out longer were folly with the danger of
another attack from the southern side, he for
the first time shows presence of mind and
issues his final orders.

Bring together all the horsemen, and let
them hasten with me through the western
gate to the defenceless Jerusalem.

Bid the infantry then hoist the signal of
surrender of the camp to the enemy.'

The order is promptly obeyed : and, as
the opposing and converging lines join, the
Governor of Jerusalem with the cavalry of
the encampment has find ; the infantry of the
camp, who still remain, have laid down their
arms, the flag of Simeon waves triumphantly
over the field of strife, and the Jewish heart
is once more elated with the fire of victory.

Great are the rejoicing in the valley of
Salem as the news of the new triumph spreads
around. The five sections of the main army
re-unite in the camp. The dead on both sides
are duly and decently interred ; the Eoman

prisoners are set to work to repair the trenches,
and special messengers are sent throughout
Palestine to proclaim the tidings of conquest
and the glory of the king. To the Sanhedrin
seventy-two messengers are despatched to
convey, in due form, the intelligence of the
success of the Son of a Star, and of the many
miraculous escapes from death that have been
mercifully vouchsafed to him.

The good news is followed by other news
from the camp of Manasseh the trustful.

To Simeon, King of Israel and Judah, the Son of
A Star, and Redeemer of the Faithful.

The Lord hath delivered the garrison and army of
Caesarea by the great sea into the hands of his servants,
and not one of the enemy hath escaped the sword of his
wrath.

Manasseh.
Chief of the Army of Simeon the King.
The first day of the third year of
the redemption of Israel.

And soon from Joshua, the commander in
the north-east, comes the intelligence that
Caesarea Philippi has also surrendered, and
that he, Joshua, with the flower of this army,
is on his way to Scythopolis to strengthen

the hands of Abner the mighty, who has surrounded
that stronghold so that none can
escape.

Jerusalem of old and Scythopohs captured,
and Palestine is free. Such is the message to
Huldah and to those who so proudly dwell in
the New Jerusalem, the House of Liberty,
under her beneficent sway, sent to her by her
royal Simeon.

For some days the camp of Salem is a
scene of hallowed rejoicing. Simeon is no
longer the emperor, he has come back to bethe
king, and is one with his subjects.

To commemorate the new mercy he strikes
a new coin, in which he surrounds his own
name with a palm, surmounted by a star on
the obverse and two trumpets with a wreath
of myrtle on the reverse.

Preparations are now made for the descent
on Old Jerusalem. It is an easy march ;
the way is well prepared ; the victors are
vehement in their desire, and all is ready.

In the camp of Salem ten thousand men
must remain ; but such is the ambition of all
to go to the next glory that those who are to

remain must be determined by lot, and submit
to their fate for the common good.

The grand army moves on, until the Holy
City is well-nigh in sight ; then the army rests
in its tents for the night.

In the morning, whilst the tents are
being struck, arms are being burnished, waggons
laden, and whilst yet the pavilion of
the king remains intact, a herald bearing a
flaof of truce arrives from the Governor of
Jerusalem.

He brings a message from Eufus, written
in the sprawling hand and cumbrous language
of that worthy himself, to Simeon.

As briefly as it is possible for its author
to be brief, he tells the Son of a Star that in
response to his special message to Caesar, an
ambassador, no less illustrious than Tryphon
the Achates and trusted friend of Hadrian,
has arrived at Jerusalem by Egypt ; that he
brings from the Emperor, in the terms of the
edict, proposals of love and peace to the
Jews everywhere ; and that upon such a happy
message he, Eufus, prays for a cessation of
hostilities between Eome and Palestine. He

promises that there shall be for Palestine
complete liberty, and for Simeon a kingship
greater than that of Herod the Great, who
rebuilt the temple dedicated to the worship
of Him whom the Jews adore.

The message suggests further that Akiba
and the divine Huldah shall take part in a
council of State to be held between him, the
Roman Governor of Jerusalem, and the Son
of a Star in the place where that illustrious
warrior is now encamped.

In the royal pavilion this momentous
proposition is discussed by the king and his
sword-bearer Akiba, with every point of detail
in clearest order. The proposal is one beyond
the hopes of Akiba. It overwhelms him with
expectation and fear. Expectation that it
may be accepted ; fear that it may be treated
with one answer, a descent of hire and death
by Simeon on the too often doomed city.

As the consultation comes to a close his
aged heart leaps as if it were with young.
The king wills it that the message back to
Eufus shall be one of friendship, and that all
that lusus desires shall be carried out.

But why ?

Ah ! thereby hangs a secret, which Akiba
with all his subtlety does not fathom.

The spirit of Trajan has spoken to Simeon
in words mute as stones, yet to him loud as
the voice of the whole world.

Take thou now the seat of Herod, and the
throne of Caesar, once my throne, is in due
course thine. Thy face alone will carry thee with
the soldiers of Eome, for is it not my own ? '

The radiant beam from the royal visage
that falls on Akiba shakes him. It is a
vibration that has been called up from afar,
and by some inscrutable tempest of memory
again recals to him one of the Emperors ;
but, in the confusion, though the very name
is on his lips, he cannot remember it, and
it returns to its place in the recesses of his
brain.

For some hours on from this memorable
hour, this pivot of fate in the life of the Son of
a Star, all is work and business in the royal
pavilion. The officers are sent for one by
one, and charged with their commands. The
messengers are dispatched with their orders
hither and thither. A special mission bearing

a special missive, written by the king's own
band, is sent to Eufus the Eoman Governor
of Jerusalem, accepting his proposal for the
council. A special mission armed with a special
missive, written in Akiba's own hand, requesting
her presence at Salem, is sent to Huldah
in the New Jerusalem. The tents, re-pitched,
are set out in the order of a city. The guards
and sentinels are placed in the most approved
Eoman order. New passwords are arranged ;
the royal pavilion is made rich in splendour
of precious and luxurious things ; all the
outside glamour that can beset a king is displayed
to most effect ; the royal guard is
arrayed in princely apparel ; the seat of the
king is transformed into a magnificent throne ;
and the royal robes are re-cast, by skilful
hands, into robes that CsBsar might envy.

Soon, also, the people round about flock
in with flowers and fruits, and the camp is
transformed into a very garden of beauty.

It is arranged that as Eufus and Boadicea
with the members of their court enter the
camp from the south, Huldah and her train
shall enter from the north.

And so it is carried out

The eventful day arrives. A band of
picked soldiers of the camp goes out in
gallant array to meet the Governor of Jerusalem
; another similar band issues forth to meet
the daughter of Israel.

On his throne Simeon is seated to receive
his guests after they have been triumphantly
brought through the camp to the centre
of majesty. Such a reception Eufus and
Boadicea have never before known ; Boadicea
is right regal in her bearing, and Eufus for
once is more than Eufus ; he is vice-regal to
Boadicea and Caesar.

But the glory of the day is reserved for
Huldah the child of Elkanah, Huldah the child
of the chosen. Her chariot is not drawn, it
is borne by the multitude. Her white and
silvery robes are as clouds enveloping her,
and her face, radiant as the sun, dazzles like
fire. Is the borne figure, sitting in the chariot
of gold on the shoulders of the multitude, is it
indeed a woman mortal as themselves ?

They do not stay to enquire, lest in their
wonder they should fall to the earth, and
she should ascend to the skies hkc Elijah of
old.

Before the throne of Simeon the group of
greatness is at last presented.

Nay, kneel not, Huldah, my sister, my
beloved, kneel not to me, but sit thou on my
right hand, and for the passing hour rule with
me

It is the king who speaks the kingly words,
and his will is law.

Simeon and Huldah are seated in majesty
side by side, on the throne of David their
father.

The courtly Tryphon kneels his obeisance ;
not a word, not a look, not a sign conveys his
recognition of the knight of Eome.

Eufus does not kneel to the king, that were
an act of disloyalty to Caesar, but to Huldah
his knees tremble in posture of humility. He
is a dazed man. Eufus is dazed before Huldah.

The face, the voice, the grace, the expression
mix themselves up in his mind with the
gallant ambassador who bore away the
famous edict for the imperial signature. But,
incompetent to unravel the mystery, he is soon
content to stand before nothing else than a
holy maiden of Judah.

If Boadicea knows more than Eufus she

conceals her knowledge in her love and admiration.
Moreover, Boadicea divides her love
and admiration between Huldah and the handsome
king who graciously kisses her on the
brow as he raises her from the ground, for
kneel to the king she will, Caesar or no Caesar.

The ceremonial of introduction over, the
court dissolves for refreshment and repose
preparatory to opening the new negotiations
which are to be entered into between the representatives
of Eome and Israel.

The negotiators lose no time in commencing
their work, and, on the side of Simeon, no
opportunity. Two wiser heads than those of
Akiba and Huldah could not be found on the
face of the earth. A more friendly head than
Tryphon's, a head primed with Jewish blood,
could not be found ; and behind them all,
though she is not formally a councillor, is the
Boadicea, now a decided power with Eufus, and
one who admires the young king, reverences
Akiba, fears Tryphon, worships Huldah, and
hates the Romans root and branch.

Every day the council sits at leisure
during the morning hours ; every day after
the noontide rest the camp is all alive with

gaiety. The soldiers have their games and
songs, as the country people come in with
merchandise and fruits and flowers. A strong
palfrey handsomely caparisoned is obtained
for Eufus, and he, with the king, and their
body-guards, ride out to the neighbouring
villages, scattering their favours by the way.
Soon Eufus and 'Simeon become such good
friends that, but for the objection of Huldah,
backed by Boadicea, they would strike a new
coin to commemorate their attachment and
amity.

As to Huldah and Boadicea, they are
inseparable ; each an accomplished horsewoman,
they ride out far and near. They
even ride to the New Jerusalem together, receive
a joyful greeting there, and are accompanied
for miles back to the camp by throngs
of the people in exultant companionship.

That Akiba and Tryphon should coalesce
in feeling, thought, and expression is no
wonder. They are made for each other.
They walk daily for miles, speaking with all
classes of the people, gathering up curiosities,
inspecting ancient traditional places, dwellings
and monuments, collecting legends, contrasting

and comparing dialects, and conversing
on the most recent mysteries of nature, with
a freedom belonging only to great and congenial
souls.

Too swiftly, too swiftly, the weeks gode
away. Too swiftly, too swiftly these blissful
days of council fly. The mornings are spent
in work of pleasant discussion, the afternoons
are holidays, and both fade in the delight of the
cool evenings, the simple banquets, the music,
the songs, the dances, the mutual goodwill.

Lazy Eufus since his childhood has never
been so happy. The guards of honour who
attend him, selected from the choicest soldiers
of Eome, share in his pleasures. They
live apart from the Jews in princely quarters
around his own viceregal tent, resplendent
with luxuries which Hadrian would cast into
the nearest river or destroy by fire ; and soon,
such is the enervating effect of luxury, they
begin to detest the necessary return of the time
when they must be real soldiers again, again.

More than once Simeon, the Son of a Star,
rides with Eufus to review these Eoman
guards, and carries them away with admiration
for his person, dignity, military skill, daring

and courage. He a Jew. Absurd ! He is a
Eoman every inch of him, speaks their tongue
as no one but a Eoman can ; knows their art
of war equally with any of their best generals,
two of whom he has outwitted ; shows them
in his carriage and manner the imperial grace
of a Caesarss of the Caesarss.

In the Eoman guards there is a centurion
who with Fidelis fought under Trajan. The
name of the centurion is Gratian, and to him
the memory of the great fighting emperor is
as silver and gold.

Around Gratian at night when the work
of the camp is over the young soldiers gather,
and listen to his tales of adventure carried out
in times when they were not born.

And more than once Gratian tells them a
story which ends with the suggestion that
Simeon is Trajan re-born, an idea which so
impresses them that when they meet Simeon
and Eufus the salutation addressed formally
to the vice-Emperor is meant for the King.

Even the dull Eufus feels this infection.

Methinks, Simeon,' he observes, ' that they
bow to thee through me.'

Simeon too knows the truth ; for Tryphon

has heard what they have almost publicly
said.

Should Hadrian die we would proclaim
this Simeon Emperor of Eome.'

And loving the youth, and proud to think
of one of his own race sitting on the imperial
throne, the Achates has not concealed the
suggestion from him who is most concerned
in the sentiment expressed.

All influences combine to make these
happy days of council, of negotiation, of
reconciliation, too short for the negotiators,
too long for the negotiation.

Too short for Eufus, and Simeon, and Tryphon,
and Akiba, and Boadicea, and Huldah.

Not too short for Julius Severus, who
would just now purchase time at any price.

But too long, too long, for Erine Leoline,
wandering about in ' Leviathan,' to hear of her
lost love. And far too long for the freedom
and peace of Jerusalem and of the children
of Israel.

The year is running out, the third year of
the deliverance, the third year of the redemption
of the chosen people. It is necessary

VOL. III. Q

that negotiations however precious, festivities
however delightful, friendships however
agreeable, should come to an end. Moreover,
every point has been discussed over
and over again, agreed to as often as affirmed,
reaffirmed, and rewritten.

The deed is prepared ready for the hand of
CsessiY ; a deed and covenant second to none
in all the history of the deathless race.

If it should be ratified by the Imperial
signature, if but seven letters be added to it,
it shall become a deed settling the affairs of
the whole world for ages upon ages to come.

In the final council held respecting it Akiba,
who has willingly served as the scribe, and
whose subtle soul is in every word, reads the
deed aloud, for the last time, from beginning
to end.

For so important a document it is brief,
almost to a fault. It proposes to Caesar as an
addition to the terms of the edict already
presented : —

That Palestine shall be restored to a kingly province
as under the Ashmolean rule.

That the Son of a Star, under the name and title of
Simeon the Great," shall, like Herod the Great, be the
first of a new line of kings.

That coinage shall be issued in his name, and that,
nominally under Caesar, the people shall enjoy their own
money, lands, religion, and laws.

That all Roman soldiers and garrisons shall be withdrawn
from Palestine, but that Caesar shall be able to
call out the native soldiery of the province should necessity
ever demand it for the sustainment and protection of his
own power.

That every Jew, retaining his own rights, shall everywhere
be, by right, a citizen of Rome.

That on the ratification of this treaty by the Emperor,
Simeon shall visit Rome as the guest of Caesar, and on
his return to his kingdom shall sit in peace, on the throne
of his fathers in the Holy City.

That the Emperor, in a manner according to his
Imperial will, shall make known the terms of this treaty
by universal proclamation.

That the camp of Salem shall remain in possession
of Simeon, with all the castles and villages now in his
possession ; that Rufus shall remain in command in the
Holy City ; that hostilities shall cease at Scythopolis, the
invaded and invaders remaining in statu quo ; but that
travellers and citizens now confined in that fortress shall
be allowed to leave at their pleasure.

Lastly.
That pending the receipt of the Imperial signature
and the announcement of the proclamation, Akiba the
faithful friend of Simeon and father of the Jewish people,
.shall remain with Rufus in the Holy City of Jerusalem ;
and that Tryphon, the trusted Achates and friend of
Caesar, shall remain with Simeon, each as a hostage and
pledge of good faith.*

The document signed and sealed, an
embassy is formed to convey it with due

Q 2

honour and solemnity to Caesar now in Eome.
At the head of this embassy Critics, the chief
lieutenant of Eufus, and Manasseh Ben
Israel, the favourite lieutenant of Simeon,
are placed by their leaders, and quickly proceed
on their way to Joppa, with a goodly train,
to take ship there for the Eoman shores.
They bear the document we have read, but
Manasseh bears also another document from
Tryphon to Caesar, a document that none
except C^sar can decipher, a document
which far more than the formal one is likely
to influence the imperial mind, bring Simeon
to Eome, and afterwards seat him on the
throne of Herod the Great as the ruler of a
free and happy and prosperous people.

For conveyance of the embassy a special
galley of superb build is promptly prepared at
Joppa. She bears as her grand standard the
Imperial diadem, sceptre, and symbol ; she
bears at her bow a simple white flag emblazoned
with the lion of Judah ; and she
breasts the ocean displaying on her prow her
name and mission : —

'THE Tale OF PEACE.'

On her way she passes ' Leviathan,' carrying
an angel of light, at whose command
Leviathan ' salutes the ' Palm of Peace ' and
wishes her a prosperous voyage.

CHAPTEE XIII.

A HAND OF IRON.

Proceeding merrily on her way, the ' Palm of
Peace ' nears the islands of Melita and Sicilia,
which stand out like sentinels of Eome, guarding
that historic tongue of land, from which
the world takes the tongue of command and
of power.

Another three or four days and she will
touch the Eoman soil.

Never ! Never ! Never !

The last day. The islands are in sight.

Something more than the islands is also insight.


A fleet ! A fleet ! A fleet !

A fleet showing as it comes nearer and
nearer, the signs and symbols of Caesar.

As the little vessel pursues her course
straight on, the vessels of this fleet filled with

armed men form into a crescent around her
so as almost to enclose lier.

The galley of the general of the fleet
advances to meet the ' Palm of Peace.'

The galley is named the ' Severus ' ; on her
prow she bears as the figurehead the image
of that remarkable warrior, and on her poop
or tower of observation, she bears the living
face and form of that warrior himself.

The vessels come side to side, and Severus,
with an air of command, enters the galley that
is on its mission to Caesar.

In a few moments Severus hears and knows
the mission of the ' Palm of Peace,' on the deck
of which he stands. In a few moments, by his
command, a hundred soldiers, armed and fierce
and strong, are by his side ready to do whatever
he may wish and speak. In a voice calm
in its coldness, yet deadly in its piercingness,
the order is issued and obeyed.

Transfer, the man called Critics to the
galley " Hades," and put him under guard ;
transfer the Jew called Manasseh Ben Israel,
who refused to give up the letter in his possession
addressed to Caesar, to the same galley
and place him in irons.

'Distribute the crew of the 'palm of Peace"
through the crews of the fleet. Put a new
crew into her with Varus as commander, and
let her sail on with us in the van of the fleet.'

The fortune of war that has put the ' Palm
of Peace ' in the hands of the Arm and wily
Severus has also changed his course. He is
on his way, by order of Caesar, to take the place
of Eufus in Palestine, and is now at his task
with a vengeance that has been quickened by
delay ; for Caesar, hoping to hear from Eufus
about the friendly interposition of Tryphon,
has held him, Severus, waiting in Eome until
he has become too dangerous to be longer retained
there, and at last, not without extreme
regret, has given him his command.

He is to proceed to Caesarea, to land his
troops there, and then to march down to
Jerusalem, assume the reins of government,
put down any rebellion, and report to Eome.

But now he hears how matters stand in
Palestine he takes the missives the ambassadors
were carrying to Caesar into his own galley ;
tears open the documents without the slightest
reserve, summons and questions the officers
of the ' Palm of Peace,' and turns over in his

determined mind the whole truth from the top
to the bottom.

Palestine ! what of itself is Palestine except
that it contains his most dangerous rival to the
throne of the Cedars.

Except also, also ! that it contains the one
and only fire that can ever convey warmth to
his cold heart and make him what he feels
he has never yet been, a man belonging to
humanity, a man who can feel the impulses of
human love, and in return love back again
with all the strength of his strong nature.

He guesses it all ; nay, knows it all. The
divine woman of the camp in Siluria is the
divine woman of Palestine of whom they have
told him ; and by the gods, by means fair or
foul his she shall be.

But his course must now be changed, for
Caesarea he finds is in the hands of the enemy.
He must follow a new plan.

The first order for the new plan is issued
to the pilot of the fleet, and is signalled by
him.

Gather the vessels together. Put the
Palm of Peace " ahead and sail for Tyre in
Phoenicia.'

The winds are unfavourable, yet Severus
chafes not. It seems as if he fought the
northern winds for the pleasure of the sport
or to gain some great delay. At last, as the
Phoenician coast is just sighted, the order to
the fleet is changed.

Turn back, keep along the coast of
Palestine out of sight of land, and sail for
Joppa.'

The fleet turns as it is bidden and makes
its way along the coast ; in the night it passes
Caesarea a long distance out, and unobserved,
for the winds are now favouring, fair and
steady.

As they near Joppa all the galleys except
the ' Palm of Peace ' are brought to repose. The
sails are taken down, the work of propulsion
required is left to the oarsmen, soundings are
tried for anchorage, and in a secluded bay
or natural harbour anchorage is found.

The 'Palm of Peace' is loaded toitsextremest
capacity with armed men, the choice men of
the Britannic legion, every man ready at any
moment to lay down his life for Severus or
Caesar.

It is a wonder even to Severus how so many

men can be packed at so brief a notice and
concealed in so small a vessel. A companion
light-sailing galley named the ' Caesar,' accompanying
the 'Palm of Peace,' carries
Severus and his staff with the flag of the
Empire at the fore.

The two vessels, followed at signalling
distance by a third and a fourth, sail down
on Joppa. The ' Palm of Peace ' leads, and as
she is sighted by those ashore gives rise to an
unbounded exultation. ' She has returned,'
they say, on the very day she was expected.
She brings, they cry, the proclamation from
Hadrian, and Palestine is free.

Everything favours this happy expectation,
for on her the symbol of Judah floats gallantly
with the Star of Simeon. And, see, the flag
of Caesar on the smaller craft salutes in warm
response the signals from the town.

The ' Palm of Peace ' lies out at sea, while
the ' Caesar ' rows to shore.

The officers of the ' Caesar ' land by the
harbour of Sabina. They are received by the
Jewish Governor with all respect and pomp
deserving of their station, but the Jews are
much struck by the manner of the chief or

general who is in command of the vessels.
His eyes are everywhere, and he is all but
speechless.

They stand apart from him as from one
who must not be approached, and yet must
be attended and respected.

Unsuspecting treachery, the Governor
of Joppa and now Chief of the Schools
conducts Severus, for Severus is the silent
chief, through all the little place ; shows him
the old Eoman camp and tells him where the
battle took place with Servien ; takes him to
the tomb of that hero and of Lucilla his
wife ; and, not thinking that a consummate
master of strategy is before him but rather
a secretary or minister of the Emperor, communicates
much that Severus would wish of all
things to know. A choice banquet is prepared
for the Eomans in the schools, and as evening
draws on they wander on the shore where
they wait for the little galley ' Caesar.' But the
galley has gone out to sea, until she is
scarcely discernible, and so the ' Palm of Peace '
is signalled to approach nearer to the harbour
as if to receive the Eomans for the night.

The students of the schools go to synagogue

for evening service ; the people of the
little seaport, tired of rejoicing, are slowly
retiring to their homes ; the soldiers have
been called into the camp ; the sentinels are
taking their places as usual for the first watch;
and, the officers are making preparations for
the escort that shall accompany the illustrious
minister of Caesar and his staff to Jerusalem
on the morrow.

The minister or chief still lingers with
his staff on the shore. He and they have
ascended a gentle height to the left of the
schools, and are scanning the ocean with
curious gaze. The light is failing fast, yet
still they gaze out to sea.

Suddenly they descend from their height
and make for the harbour of Sabina, for now
the ' Palm of Peace ' has drawn up to the quay
to receive them ; she lies alongside the quay
ready for them to enter as they stand some
little distance off, in line, along the front of
the quay.

The oars of the rowers are drawn in
on the side towards land ; the bulwark of the
vessel presses against the wall of the quay ;
the chief of the Romans bids his companions

divide into two columns, and as if heaved or
cast upon the shore a host of armed soldiers
sweeps under the direction of that silent
minister past the schools and straight to the
old Eoman camp.

The surprise is so intense that for some
minutes not a blow is struck, and before a
hand is raised in resistance the camp is filled
with a revengeful enemy.

The alarm given, the treachery discovered,
the combat is soon the maddest of the maddest.
The Jews fight like demons. There
are ten thousand students still in the schools
all trained to fight ; but in the confusion they
crush to reach the camp, and striving to enter
it by its narrow passes, cripple their own
desperate efforts. While thus they push forward
they are assailed from behind, for another
company of trained soldiers has landed on the
quay, another and another, each led by one
of the companions of that wily minister.

Pressed by these contending forces on two
sides, the students by a flank movement rush
into their schools, but not with sufficient skill
to prevent a deadly rush of the soldiers of
Severn s after them, hewing them to pieces in

the close fight till the blood pours dov/n the
staircases in streams.

All through that livelong night the havoc
is maintained, and in the morning Joppa
lies at the feet of the invader. Men, women,
children, houses, forts, and schools, are at his
mercy ; while at the bow of the 'Palm of Peace,'
with the flag of the rebel king flying over him,
the brave Manasseh Ben Israel hangs by the
neck, stark and cold, and dead.

The mercy of Severus ! Ironical thought.
Severus in triumph is worse than Severus in
battle.

The camp has surrendered, and once more
the valley below it is the valley of death and
the grave.

From the camp into the schools the catapults
rain their showers of stones ; the roofs fall
in, the walls tremble and fall ; the wounded
students swarm into the sea in shoals pursued
by the small craft of the fleet, and Joppa is
again a ruin which Cestius might have envied.

With a celerity of movement which in any
other general would be counted rashness of
despair, but which with him is sure precursor
of victory, Severus without a moment's

delay marches straight to Jerusalem, with all
his landed force except a modest garrison that
is to be recruited by the ships of war which
are yet out at sea, and have to come up to
Joppa.

Two thousand men march with him to the
Holy City, and enter without a sign of opposition.


Who can oppose? The Holy City is in
Eoman occupation already, and Akiba is a
hostage. Alas ! now a prisoner.

In the grand hall or basilica of the Palace
of the Eoman Governor of Jerusalem, Severus
and Eufus meet after the entry. Pew words
pass between them. The imperial edict of
Caesar, making Severus Governor of Palestine
and deposing Eufus, is brought in due form
under the eyes of Eufus, and the new rule
begins, though few words are spoken.

An escort is quickly made ready to take
the ex-Governor and Boadicea to Joppa on
their return journey direct to Britain, and an
open letter, which the ex-Governor may read
if he will, is addressed to Fabius at the camp
of Londinum :

Illustrious Fabius, — That I may not be compelled to
open an inquiry under which I should be obliged to execute
him as a traitor, I send you the buffoon Tinnius
Rufus, late Governor of this province, together with the
virago his wife, Boadicea. Transport them both, I pray
you, to Siluria, from whence they came, and charge them
to thank daily the immortal gods, who on their behalf
guided me, in mercy, to spare their lives.

Severus.

From the Court of the Governor of Palestine at Jerusalem.
Ave C^sar!

Commencing his new rule the new Governor
of Palestine, as a first step, makes good
his communications from Joppa to the seat
of his government. Messages are dispatched
with the fleet of vessels for another half-legion
of tried men from Britain. Jerusalem is put
in new defence ; maps and plans of Palestine
are carefully drawn out ; spies are sent forth
in every direction, and long before Eufus
and his wife have reached their British home
Palestine is as familiar to Severus as that
British home itself.

And Caesar, receiving no word of the last
treaty suggested by Eufus, hears all he knows
from the curt and soldierly dispatches Of the
new Governor, the man of deeds not words.

Two facts, however, he specially gathers :

VOL. III. R

one, that Akiba, the sword-bearer and chief
supporter of the Pretender, is in the hands of
Severus : the other, that Tryphon, his physician
and most familiar friend, is in the hands of the
enemy at the so-called Court of the rebel king
in northern Galilee, near to Jotapata which
Josephus surrendered to Vespasian.

CHAPTEE XIV,

AS GOLD IS TRIED.

Our vision is for a moment varied by a series
cf rapidly developed pictures and shades, which
come vividly into view and then fade away,
leaving bare time for the memory to hold them.
Let us do our best to fix them on our tablets
before we concentrate our senses on the thrilling
scenes which must precede our awakening
the world of common life.

Eufus and Boadicea have arrived safely
in their remote island home at the end of the
nether earth. They have been landed at Dola,
and have proceeded by easy stages to the
western Siluria, where Aaron of the Altar still
leads his people, and where the good priest
of the temple of Apollo still carries out his, to
him, sacred vocation.

Many friends of old are glad to welcome
back the ex-Governor of Palestine, whose
jovial nature has never been forgotten ; but

alas ! poor specimen of a departed fame, the
welcome is as a dish of choice meats at the
mouth of a sepulchre.

His right hand has lost its power, his right
foot will not support him; and his tongue
utters strange speech. He calls his couch a
horse, his table a bed, and his wife Nero.

But Boadicea quarrels not, chides not,
complains not. Virago no longer, she clings to
the decrepit man with a tenderness that is as
earnest as it is winsome and gentle. He is to
her a child, and if she, still beautiful in her
subdued sadness, smiles when he calls her
Nero, it is a smile that shines sadly, through
beauty, and that pleases him.

So for some months Boadicea and nature
nurse the ex-governor until, without his knowing
it, the earth calls him. He obeys, and the
widowed Boadicea, seeking no new spouse,
becomes a devout devotee of the Temple of
the Sun.

Fabius, aided by Saserna, remains as
deputy-governor in the camp of Londinum by
the flowing Thamesisis, paying now and then a
friendly visit to Noviomagus to join the citizens
of that immortal state in their festivals, and

especially in the festival newly ordained and
to last for good, dedicated to the memory of
the visit of Caesar. In Noviomagus they find
Tibullus, ensconced as a distinguished citizen
there and much improved by the association.
He boasts no more, having found a wife who,
born in the state, knows her obligations to it,
and her duties to him.

Britain is at peace ; and, owing to the
divisions of its people, is content with the
Eoman rule which maintains harmony. The
great wall of Hadrian is nearly completed,
and Londinum is becoming a port as well as an
encampment.

Segonax, the potter and a native prince of
Britain, has gone to Eome by order of Caesar and
has not returned. It pleases the Emperor to
have this native chief near to him, to talk with
him about the lost Antinous, and to prepare for
him, in clay, models of vases and other works
of art which Antinous would have loved had
Antinous been permitted to live by his side.

For in Eome the Emperor still mourns the
irretrievable loss of his favourite companion.
His malady grows worse, his beloved Tryphon

is far away, the Empress is sad, and all is
despair in the imperial palace. Sometimes
he rallies and finds pleasure again in variety
of occupation. For a time a fit seizes him
that he will build a new city by the Nile
in honour of Antinous, and for months he is
personally engaged laying its foundations,
gardens, and palaces, and dedicating a temple
to the deity of his distempered brain. But
when his task is done he lapses again into
black care, and, except for the firm will of a
new favourite, Marcus Antoninus, introduced
by the Empress and soon the presumptive
Caesar, he would die by his own hand. Occasionally,
in moments of calm, he speaks to
Marcus about Juverna, the Island of Peace and
Beauty, lamenting, as if he had done some
great crime, his neglect in not visiting that
island when he was in Britain, and planning
still to go, but never carrying out the design.
Altogether he is tired of life, and if he had
his own way would end the sad comedy with
little ceremony. In poetry, he breathes forth
the preparation for his last hours, and
addresses his departing ghost or spirit as if it
were present to his sight.

• Poor little, trembling, fleeting soul 1
Companion of this body and its guest.
Whither, oh whither is thy goal I
Where now thy place of rest 1
Pallid and cold and naked ! not a word
Of all thy wonted wit shall ever more be heard.'

As to Jiiverna herself she remains the
gem of the western sea. Mither a still reigns
in Juverna, and universal peace. The grand
council sits in the halls of Tara. The priests,
the poets, and the philosophers hold their
own. The Temple of Elbana robes itself
with the seasons, and the eternal fire continues
to burn with unbroken splendour.
The round towers, or candles of the nation,
lighted at proper times from the fire of the
central temple, declare, as heretofore, that the
laws of the people are in safe keeping. The
causeways and caverns of the giant of
the north have lost none of their grandeur,
the sea of the south none of its crystal clearness,
the lakes and woods of the west none
of their glory, the city of marble none of
its purity, the souls and bodies of the
people none of the holiness of grace and
beauty.

Only two brightnesses are wanting in

Juverna, the smile of Erine Leoline and the
wisdom of Leon the Wise.

When, oh when will they return ?

A generation of little children has grownup
to hear of these treasures of the island,
and has never seen them. When will they
return ?

As the festivals come round and the people
assemble, this question is the question of questions.
As men and women and children
traverse the coast Hues, and look out over the
emerald sea, they strain their eyes that they
may be the first to discover Leviathan bringing
the wanderers back to their home.

When the captain of the Phoenician vessel
from Tyre touches Juverna and tells that he
has met the travellers in the great sea in the
middle of the earth he is received as one from
another sphere, and is burthened with the gifts
of his generous and anxious hosts.

And still Juverna waits and hopes.

The dissolving shade that is last before
our gaze is the kingdom of the Son of a Star
in the little land of greatest wonders, the
cradle of the world, the world to which aU

nations shall come for the spirit of truth and
the breath of righteousness.

A few short months with Severus in the
Land of Promise have dimmed all the bright
hopes of its future glory. If death and mourning
have not set on the place their seals and
chains, the light is lowering for that terrible
and sorrowful transformation.

Inch by inch the iron hand has cut its
way until Palestine bleeds once more, nigh
unto death.

Por a while so strong is the young king,
so brave, so able, so commanding, so trusted,
that even Severus has been shut up in
Jerusalem as in a fortress. Eome has met
Eoman discipline, Eoman skill, and Eoman
courage from Jewish hands, so that Julius
Severus has feared, at one moment, that the
Eoman standard must be lowered from the
citadel he commands. Short of provisions,
short of men, his communications with Joppa
threatened, what shall he do ?

Again, internal dissensions amongst the
Jews about the root of all evil — ' Jews-lanes
as Akiba calls it— come to the help of the
enemy.

The Sanhedrin enforces the coinage of the
Sanhedrin ; it will have and acknowledge
none of the coinage of Simeon, which it condemns
as fanciful, as the coinage of a king,
not of a nation, the worship of an image
under a name, a brazen image. Better were
it, it declares, to hold and pass the coins of
C^sar.

From the reports which come round to
him through Joppa by the merchants of Tyre,
Severus obtains the news of the existence of
revolt in the councils under Simeon. The
news breathes new life into him.

In Lower Galilee there are Jews who
under various names and sects have separated
from the ancient Jewish faith, and who, hating
the riches of the world and sharing each
other's goods with equal hand, despise money
altogether, using it only under dire necessity,
and caring not whose image and superscription
it may bear. These Jews treat the money
both of the Sanhedrin and the king with profound
contempt, will have nothing to do with
either, and speak of both as the curse of the
neighbouring land of Samaria. Thus an old
quarrel is revived which has often been of the

bitterest kind amongst the Jewish people
of Galilee and Samaria.

To settle this dispute the king and his
advisers are appealed to, and being themselves
of the strictest of the ancient school of their
fathers, take part with the Samaritan faction,
and by force of arms, not without infliction
of keen severity, put down the Nazarenes and
other schismatics of Galilee with a firm and
ruthless hand.

Severus having intelligence of this internal
trouble turns it to account. In Jerusalem
there are many of the proscribed sects who,
under Eoman rule, enjoy equal privileges with
Jews as well as Eomans. By means of one
of these he succeeds in opening up a secret
treaty with the Galileanss, and from their centre
saps the kingdom of Simeon.

Guided by able spies, he despatches Varus
to start with a forlorn hope of men, from a
point on the road from Jerusalem to Joppa, to
march due north to Mount Gerizim, on which
stands the temple of Samaria, and to make
an assault there that shall lead the Galileanss
to rise and take a quick revenge on their
Samaritan foes.

The game is desperate, it costs him Varus
and every man under the command of that
faithful Lieutenant, but what of that ? What
is Varus for, or any of his men, if not to die
for Severus and Caesar?

Simeon is, at this time, in the New Jerusalem,
and gets the news too late to stop the fatal
blunder which Severus anticipates.

Joshua, the youthful captain, left in charge
of the camp at Salem, is the first to hear of the
bold and desperate adventure, and the renewal
of the Samaritan quarrel.

Fired with zeal, he goes forth from his
camp with a strong detachment to quell the
disorder, but, met boldly by Varus, receives a
check which forces him to send for a larger
body of men from the camp ; and, when,
after a second engagement with his small but
stubborn foe, he has laid the foe low, he
returns to find Severus in his own place,
the conqueror and possessor of the camp of
Salem.

The fates once more fight for Severus. Ashe
marched out of Jerusalem to storm Salem,
the body of Eoman soldiers, which he had sent
for from Britain, marched in and were left in

reserve with the force already ordered to remain
in defence. In possession of the camp
of Salem, he commands Scythopolis, which
lies barely three days' march on his northeastern
side, whilst Samaria is at his feet and
Jerusalem is protected from the enemy in the
north.

The tide of war is indeed turned.

Step by step Severus secures his positions.
He establishes a line of unbroken communication
with Jerusalem. He receives more
supplies from Eome.

In a few weeks he marches in person to
Scythopolis, attacks the mighty Abner in his
trenches, and, aided by a gallant sally from
the besieged, sets the famous fortress free,
with great slaughter of his foes and the death
of their commander.

Thence, marching across to the western
borders of the Great Sea, he strikes at Caesarea,
takes it, and once more makes it a port of
Eoman possession.

In a small country like Palestine a few such
victories as these are keys to the mastery of the
whole province, and poor Akiba, still a hostage,
always carried from place to place with

much respect by the conquering general, reads
from sun to sun the fate of his unhappy people
and his own. He is made, perforce, the eyewitness
of his own downfall from state to

stage.

He knows too well that whenever the victor
likes the final blow may fall. He sees the
once exultant people falling off from the king
whom they have crowned, and he fears that
the longer the victor delays his final conquest
the surer, the easier, and the more terrible the
conquest will be.

One thing alone sustains the heart of the
renowned scholar of scholars. In all the
course of his imprisonment Severus maintains
towards him a deference and respect which
means more than any such man could ever
entertain for his person or for his learning.

The subtle mind discerns that in the heart
of Severus there is some vibrating chord the
note of which has yet to be caught and perhaps
turned to good account.

And so he waits and watches.

Amongst the men relieved from the fortress
of Scythopolis is the rich scholar Fortunatus,
the bosom friend of the Emperor. He comes

to the camp at Salem, is received favourably
by Severus as a matter of course, and without
ceremony is brought into contact with the great
hostage Akiba, whom he once met at Joppa in
the days of Servien. Between the two there
springs up a cordial understanding, to say the
least of it — some would say friendship.

Fortunatus has been to Alexandria since
he and Akiba met at Joppa, and has learned
the secret of the Greek ere which destroyed
Servien. Severus listens to the narrative of
the defeat of Servien by that instrument of
war with rapture. Sentiment against Akiba,
for allowing the use of such an agent, he
has none. On the contrary, he admires the
subtlety and considers that the blundering
Servien deserved all that he received.

For himself, he desires no more than to learn
everything about this fire that Fortunatus can
tell him, as a soot elinor for a soldier to know.

Whatever can embarrass or kill an enemy
is good knowledge for a soldier.'

That is a maxim Severus never forgets.

It will be well if Fortunatus would prepare
some of this infernal invention of the
infernal deities for Eoman use.

In the camp of Salem Severus lingers until
all is as certain for his purpose as the rising
of the sun. He has even provided himself with
abundance of Greek fire, to return it, if necessary,
upon his enemies.

At length he moves.

A new relay of troops of the Augustan
legion marches up to the camp. The camp is
made secure and well manned. Fortunatus is
sent down to rule at Jerusalem ; and Severus,
with an invincible force and accompanied by
Akiba, sets forth by easy stages to the New
Jerusalem until he lies before that charmed
city and last resort of Simeon the Son of a
Star. It is a place well defended. The lines
of defence have been carried out on the
western side with consummate skill, so as to
cover the route to Phoenicia, the last open
means of communication with the outer world.

New Jerusalem cannot be surrounded
without extending the line of attack beyond
what he can afford, is the instant impression
made on the mind of Severus.

He admires the whole scheme of defence.

It is the defence of an inspired genius.
No living man would have devised it, not

even he — Severus. No I not even he. It is
worthy of the great Julius himself.

Nevertheless, he knows that he is master
of the situation. He will entrench himself
before the beautiful city and bide his time.
Fortunatus has told him the observation of
the sagacious Boadicea in her report to Paifus ;
that the strong forts, built up largely of timber
and bitumen, would burn like straw if they
were subjected to fire.

Greek fire may be a weak fire, but thrown
in showers from the catapults of Severus it
will, of a surety, ignite bitumen ; more it need
not do, and of it he has abundance.

Akiba, watched now by day and by night,
knows the danger alas too well, and sees no
rescue. He still watches and waits.

His friends in the city watch and wait also.
Simeon is fortifying more securely, is strengthening
and extending; his lines, is drilling; and
encouraging his forces, and is trusting in his
fearless friend and counsellor, the divine
Huldah.

One thing only in relation to Huldali embarrasses
and sometimes perplexes him : her
friendship with the Eoman hostage Tryphon.

VOL. III. s

Between HiiJdah and Tryphon there is an
alliance which he cannot understand, and
which Akiba, if he understood it, has never
unfolded. That in some mysterious way
Huldah travelled in the camp of Caesar from
Britain he knows, and that then she or the
Achates may have met is the only solution
he can find, and that is not enough. Tryphon
is a man to be watched with anxiety.

Eeuben, the merchant of Tyre, returns to
the palace of the king. He brings presents
costly as ever ; but dross, mere dross, compared
with the present of a despatch from
Erine which her own heart has dictated, her
own hand has indited.

She has heard of the disasters of her
betrothed ; she knows of his peril and would
far rather share the present danger with him,
than accept the expected honours he has foretold.
She tells him that in all trouble,
in all adversity, she is still his faithful
betrothed ; that on the great sea her heart
beats only for him ; that each point and peak
of coast from Sidon to Joppa is familiar to
her sight ; and that Leviathan's mighty heart
would leap at the joy of receiving him again,

and conveying him back to the island of the
blessed.

Eeuben, the merchant of Tyre, is dismissed
once more with many favours. He has been
received by Huldah, and has laid some presents
also at her feet. He has met Tryphon, as
one whom he has known in past days, and
has received from that learned man — but this
the king knows not of — a despatch in cypher,
to be borne in haste to Caesar.

To protect the departure of Eeuben and
help him quickly on his way, Eli, the faithful
servant of Huldah, accompanies him with a
troop of horsemen to the borders of Phoenicia
and to within sight of the coast of the great
sea, where, for some days after he has left his
charge, he, Eli, lingers, making many surveys
and notes before he returns to the mistress of
all his hopes and cares, and the adored of her
people.

For never was Huldah the child of Elka-
nah, Huldah the child of the chosen, more
powerful than in the present hour of gloom,
never more beautiful, more admired, more
beloved. Wherever she goes the eyes of the

people follow her. Whenever she speaks the
ears of the people listen. Each evening, in
the synagogues and in the courts of the temple,
the congregations, at her suggestion, sing with
one voice from the psalms which David sang,
when he, like them, was sorely vexed and
full of trouble.

The kings of the earth set themselves,
And the rulers take counsel together ;
Against the Lord
And against his Anointed.

Yet have I set my king
Upon my holy hill of Zion,

The Lord hath said unto me,

Thou art my Son }

This day have I begotten thee.

Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron ;

Thou shalt dash them in pieces
Like a potter's vessel.

Blessed are all they

That put their trust in Him.'

Julius Severus has suddenly pushed his
entrenchments so close to the walls and forts
of the city that it seems as if they were merely
an intervals, or part of the same.

He is so near that at eventide he can hear

the song of the people in the synagogues.
The song is so melodiously sad it seems to
thrill his iron yet resonant soul, as in his
quarters, with maps and plans around him,
he sits alone, wondering whether by early
dawn he will not strike the first blow on the
doomed place.

His head is buried in his hands. The
flagon of wine is by his side. That wine once
tasted, and the deed is done ; but the music
of the New Jerusalem holds him in its thrall.

He calls an attendant and gives an order.

Let the Jew Akiba be at once brought
to me.'

Akiba, led as he believes to his fate, enters
the presence of his conqueror with the solemn
stateliness of an immortal being about to
meet, with courage and dignity, his last mortal
hour.

To his surprise, Severus, instead of passing
sentence, dismisses the guards with a wave of
his hand, and, bowing to his prisoner, seats
him at his side, and in a tone low, and even
gentle, asks : —

What song, great scholar, is it that your
people sing ? '

In a response as gentle, Akiba tells the
words of the song, and warming with the task
details the story of David, that King of the
chosen people who, as a boy from the flock,
killed the giant Philistine Goliath with a sing
and a stone.

The story warms the cold Sever us into
something like enthusiasm.

I should have liked,' he observes, * I
should have liked to have killed that giant
myself as David did. But answer me another
question. What woman's voice was that which
was heard through all the rest and seemed to
ring from the height of that mysterious dome,
with its horn of fire, which they have built on
their central temple or citadel ? *

I know not of a certainty, but I doubt
not it was the voice of the Divine Huldah, the
good angel of the people.'

'I thought so too. It is she who was
with Fidelis the centurion in Britain together
with ih J protege, this pretended Messiah and
king. Fortunatus has found out and told me
so much of her history.'

\Aiid. what,' asked Akiba, ' would my lord
know more ? *

I would know if she is accessible to
reason, to constancy, to love.'

To all, my lord, to all ; reason, constancy,
love, are the pillars of her fame.'

I believe it, and by them, rightly directed,
Palestine may be saved, and thou and thy
pretended king may reign over it in peace.'

What meaneth my lord ? My lord jester
with his prisoner.'

I jest ! Julius Severus hath never jested
in all this life, and least of all now, when life,
and hope, and peace depend upon the result
of this hour and thy pleasure.'

I beg pardon of my lord, and listen for
his words.'

The thin and nervous lips of Severus for
once quiver ; the colour passes from his face ;
his voice at times falters, as he, inspired ba
secret passion that has filled his heart
for years, relates what the Caesar who rules
over him would declare to be his 'heart's
desire.'

Akiba, as thy people call thee, knowest
thou ever the passion which the poets describe
as love ? '

I have known it, have passed through

the sacred fire of it, and have been the sanctified
of it.'

One would not guess it from thy appearance
more than from mine ; but the deeper
canst thou feel for me and help me. Hear
thou then the confession of Severus. From
the day this same Huldah, whose voice we
have just heard, entered the camp in Siluria,
in the island of Britain, I have loved her
beyond all else in earth, or hades, or heaven.
Above all things that have lived for me, father,
mother, brother, sister, fellow-scholar, fellow-soldier,
servant, horse, dog ; nay, even the, tome,
living thing in the flagon there, I have
loved that woman.'

My lord, my lord, but *

Nay, stop not at thy peril the long pent up
torrent of my despair. I tell thee the whole
truth. I have fought and won more battles
than any man since the great Julius, more
than Trajan fought under his own direct
command. I have held and hold the powers
of life and death in my hands as often as any
man ; I hold Palestine now ; I may hold the
whole Empire of Eome in time to come ; butin
my soul's great confession I tell thee I would

give up all for Huldah, the goddess of thy
people.

Wait ! wait ! till I have ended, for thou
art now concerned. I know the contents of
that message which thou and she, and Tryphon
the Achates, and this Simeon of thine, and
the fool Eufus, prepared to send to Caesar. I
know it was thy work ; I have read thy subtlety
in every line. I intercepted it, kept it,
keep it ; it is under my foot at this moment
as my footstool, and as thy deliverance at one
touch of my will. Let thy subtlety be once
more displayed on it ; secure me Huldah as
my honourable and honoured wife, and the
despatch is thine again. It shall go to Caesar ;
it shall be signed by him ; the pretender shall
be Simeon the Great, the successor of Herod ;
thou shalt be High Priest of Israel if thou
wishes t ; Jerusalem, the ancient city and its
famous temple, shall be restored ; and, Israel
shall be free.'

The words, intense to fierceness, go through
the heart of Akiba like a fine sword. A few
seconds pass before he can give the reply.

And what if thy servant refuses to do this
great wickedness and sin against his God ? *

This city of thy pretender shall be razed
to the ground. He shall be crucified ; thy
people throughout all the land, men, women,
and children, shall be slain in hecatombs,
shall be driven by shoals into the great and
little seas ; their houses shall be set in flames
and their vineyards blackened with the smoke ;
their synagogues shall be turned into the
dwelling-places of our own immortal gods ;
for thyself, thou shalt die the most cruel
death that Eoman general or Caesar ever
devised or thought of ; and she, the divine
woman, shall be the slave of Severus and the
harlot of Israel.'

Never in all his memorable career does
the renowned Akiba stand forth in grander
form than in this hour of sublime and holy
trial. He rises from his seat, he faces his
enemy, he speaks his resolute will.

In the early days of our nation when the
angel of him we dare not name communed
with the chosen of our people, Abraham ; he,
Abraham, our Father, had a son, in whom
alone all Israel for generations of unborn
generations was embodied.

The angel spoke to our Father Abraham,

Take, said the angel, thy son, thine only son,
Isaac, to the summit of Mount Moral ; and
sacrifice him, even him, with thine own hand
on an altar there, and let the lad himself bear
the wood for the fire of the sacrifice.

And our Father, blessed be his name, took
his son, the son of all Israel of every generation,
and obeyed the voice of the angel who
spoke the will of the nameless God.

'But ere yet the sacrifice was made the
Angel, seeing the faith of Abraham, spoke to
him again and saved the life of the child.

And now, oh Severus, man of iron will and
iron heart, I stand as did our Father Abraham.
Israel is my Isaac, and if the angel speak not
both Israel and I must die. Yet shall a remnant
be saved, and Israel reign when thou
and thy legions are lost in the depths of
eternity.'

With the return of rid feature and expression
Severus recalls the guards that
brought in the hostage to country and faith,
and bids them do their duty.

Let this man be placed in chains and

taste no bread and drink no water, nor have
food nor drink of any kind, nor bed nor sleep
until my further will is known.

Yet hold ! If in the watches of the night
or day he calls for means to write let him
be supped, and bring whatsoever he may
indite direct to me.'

CHAPTER XV.

THE HOLOCAUST.

With very different feelings and sentiments,
Akiba and Severus part for the night and for
their respective contemplations.

An abiding sense of sustainment of mind
and body encourages and pacifies the aged
and sacred scholar of the Sanhedrin, and
sword-bearer of the Son of a Star. The
glorious promises feed him with their living
fire, and the soul of his youth, nourished as it
had been in the place where the father of his
race lived, is revivified. He knows that he
is neither forgotten nor forsaken.

In the watches of the night, during which
the cruel guards permit him not one moment
of rest, a break is made in the heartless proceedings.
A table is brought, writing materials
are placed on it, and a seat is put near in

which a guardsman sits, ready to rise at any
moment if he, Akiba, is tempted to recall his
resolution and write to Huldah and Simeon
the terms of their surrender.

In his noble mind he argues out the question
to its full. May it not be right that she,
that they, should know the fate that is offered
to them ? They can but answer as he has done,
and he and they can but die.

On the other side, ought he, the Father of
Israel, to be the bearer of a proposal so wild
and wicked ? What faith can he put in such
a monster as Severus? How can Huldah,
the beloved of God, be the wife of such a
tyrant ? It were impossible, it were a crime
unpardonable. Her ear through him shall
never be polluted by a project so unnatural
and insanely wicked.

What too if they misinterpreted him ; if
they thought that the proposal was in truth a
prayer for his own life ? In the grandeur of
her unselfish nature she might sacrifice herself
to save him whose days are well-nigh numbered,
and her shame were on his own head.

There is much left in life for him to do. He
knows and feels that full well. But the Holy

One will not desert the sheep of his pasture.
Some son of man will rise in the good time,
though it be in ages to come, and do what he
has left undone.

Moreover, though he may die, Simeon and
Huldah may yet live. The fate of battles is in
the hand of the God of battles, and Severus
may lose and Simeon may win.

Of the danger of the destruction of the
besieged place by fire he is aware, but he does
not know that Severus is in possession of the
same knowledge, or that he is provided with
the means of war used with such effect on his
own side in the memorable conflict at Joppa,
when Servien and Lucilla were numbered with
the dead.

And so he remains unbending : the guards
keep him awake with the points of their
swords ; he eats not, drinks not, rests not,
sleeps not ; but the tempting clean parchment
remains free of any mark, or sign, or line from
him. He is assured by a sublime peace that
his course is clear and that it is his duty to die.

Severus on his side, free to act as he willis
in rage of held. lie lias tasted of the flagon,

but not sufficiently to give him the dead sleep
that is its wonted effect. He dare not sleep,
and yet fears to be awake ; he hates Akiba
more and more ; he feels contempt for the
pretender more and more ; he abhors all
mankind, himself included, more and more ;
he curses all womankind, including the mother
who bore him, all except one, the woman who
breathes an air separated from him by a few
walls which he believes he can demolish in
the space of an hour.

He will be his own messenger, he will win
his own way to her; he, a conqueror, will
throw himself at her feet and offer all that he
has offered Akiba ; he will even set that obstinate
wretch free if she, Huldah, will take
him, Severus, as her lord and spouse.

And if she will not ?

Then she is in his power, and revenge is
revenge.

No sleep, but one more draught of the
flagon. By Bacchus ! it stings, it bites, it
stupefies. By Mars ! Bacchus this time shall
be undone.

Mars calls.

Severus ! Severus I Severus ! Throw off that

stupor and take your place in the midst of
your army, for behold your enemy is about
to sally forth and stab you to the heart.

Hark ! Hear you not the tramp of his
horses, the faint rattle of the armour, the
subdued voices of the armed men !

And see you not there on the dome of the
Capitol, by the horn of flame, the arch rebel
himself bearing on his brow the blazing star,
and by his side an angel of light watching
with him your entrenchments below !

Yes ! Severus sees them, fiery Mars ; hears
and sees all, and acts his part.

A bow ! a bow ! a bow for Severus.

It is many years since Severus has discharged
an arrow at foe ; but his once splendid
workmanship remains as the Britons have taught
it him, and his bow, unstrung, is at hand.

From the wall of his tent with wild and
awful fury he seizes the weapon on which
his pride is set ; bow and arrow are ready ;
the bow is strong, the arrow is keen, the wind
is favourable, and the victim is standing unconsciously,
as if waiting for the dart, with the
bright star as a point at which to aim.

To the roof of yonder tower, Severus ! the

VOL. in. T

tower that carries the foremost battering-ram ;
it will bear thee firmly.

A moment and it is done ; the distance is
great, the arrow well-nigh spent ; it has missed
the brow of the Pretender, but it has pierced
his body and he sinks by her side.

Another shaft lies by thee, man of archers
and soldiers, complete the enterprise.

But ere the new shaft is adjusted the
body of the glorious maiden is the shield of
the falling king ; and the bow drops nerveless
from the hand of the archer.

A band of brave and ready hands bears
the body of the wounded king from the dome
down into the temple. Huldah follows, and,
as if to crown the great disaster, the attack
on the city begins.

Severus flies from post to post, and plants
the catapults in position with his own hands.
The crystal fire-balls play on the forts, and the
eastern fort is quickly in a blaze.

The winds bear the frames and the smoke
from the Eomans, by which the aim from
the catapults is much favoured. And it is soon
evident to the invaded citizens that the fate, of
their city is entirely at the mercy of the enemy.

And the Son of a Star no longer leads the
fight. For the first time in his memorable
and miraculous life he has received a wound.

The infliction of this injury has wounded
the moral not less than the physical powers of
the Son of a Star. He has more than once
declared himself invincible ; and lo ! he is
wounded. He has, therefore, once at least
declared a lie.

And what did our father Eleazar Nasi
whom the wily Abner saw die, what did he
say



Did he say Bar-cochran : — Son of Star ?

Nay ! he said Bar-Cosiba : — Son of Lies.

The latter name fills the air, and in their
despair, raving amid the flames which now are
bursting out on all sides, seeking shelter from
the stones hurled from the Eoman engines,
deafened with the crash of falling walls and
buildings, the people scream Bar-Cosiba, with
curses and imprecations on his devoted head.

Let the people get hold of the Son of Lies
and they will tear him to pieces.

Tryphon at large, but still on parole, moves
out from his home. His natural instinct, his
reverence foB Huldah,his friendship for Simeon,

T 2

call upon him to hasten to the Temple to
aid with his skill the wounded man. He extracts
the barb, he dresses the wound ; he holds
out hope to Huidah that there is every chance
of cure, if the unconscious sufferer, still stunned
by his fall and loss of blood, can only be conveyed
away into a place of safety.

But where is the place of safety when
the cry outside every moment grows more
appalling ?

To death with the Son of Lies ! to death,
to death, to death with the Son of Lies !

His blood be on his own head. To death
with the Son of Lies, to death, to death, to
death ! '

Ere long they will break into the Temple
and turn their words into deeds.

A faithful band of the royal guard still
surrounds the sacred place containing Huidah,
Tryphon,Eh, and the other faithful and devoted
followers, surrounding the helpless Simeon.

They take their directions from the collected
mind of Huidah, and like children obey
every word.

Thus guided, they form in the Temple a
procession for the dead, laying the wounded

king on a bier as one about to be carried out
of the precincts of the City for sepulture, and
prepare to march forth.

But before they move, Eh, the matchless
servant and unswerving friend, at the signal of
his divine mistress, follows her into an inner
court near the Holy of holies, to receive his
last commands and hear from her her last
farewell.

Faithful of all faithful men, beloved of
God, as thou lowest me and shall in days to
come remember Huldah, take to thy charge
from me Simeon, the Son of a Star. At the
outer precincts where the dead are buried I
leave him to thy care. With a little band of
horsemen seeming to be going out to the fight
bear him before thee in their midst on the way
to Phoenicia ; at a fitting point dismiss the
band, and under thy protection lead him to
the arms of love and safety his heart longs for.
So may his destiny yet be fulfilled.

No word as to myself. But when thou
art on the highway out of reach of instant
pursuit from his foes native and foreign, turn
thou thine eyes to the dome of this house,
pray for me, and pursue thy way.'

Then from off her neck she takes her string
of beads, and reaching up to place them over
the bending head of Eli, she kisses his brow
and leads him back to the funereal band.

The mounted guards of Simeon outside the
gate of the Temple clear the way and surround
those on foot who bear the body of the king.
At a word from Huldah they accept the command
of Eli, as she with her maidens leads the
band, chanting in plaintive strain words which
for the moment touch the hearts and stay the
hands of those who cling around : —

AW we like sheep have gone astray,
We have turned, every one his own way ;
And the Lord hath laid on him
The iniquity of us all. '

The blaze of fire, the crash of tumbling
edifices, the shouts of the people scarcely
deaden the sad chant of the procession proceeding
to the place of sepulture at the northwestern
part of the city. The voices of wailing
pierce through the gloom of smoke
which hangs over the burial-place like a
gigantic pall, and the dreaded spot is reached
by the processionists without interruption,
Huldah in her robes of white, which make the

darkness more visible, still leading them. The
gates are opened, and the bearers of the king
enter with the attendant group. Many of the
infuriated people would have rushed in also
before the gates were closed, but detecting at
the end of the train of mourners the Eoman
hostage, the learned Tryphon, they are suddenly
seized with the impulse to wreak revenge
on him. Tearing him back from his friends
they rend him limb from limb, and making
a small burning pile into a huge one, they cast
his body, piece by piece, into the fire with a
savage glee which seems, for the moment, to
satisfy their frenzy and their despair.

The diversion of the mob leading to so cruel
a fate to the great and trusted physician of
Hadrian and true friend of the Jews, is favourable
for the escape of the king. In the intensified
gloom from the new volumes of smoke,
the view of the interior of the burial-place is
entirely cut off from the people outside. The
wild tumult they raise conceals the sounds of
the movement by which Simeon, laid across
the strong arms of Eli mounted on a charter
of dimensions equivalent to his own, is carried
swiftly away, on the high road leading to

Phoenicia, without the necessity of any attendant
guard, from those who have sent him,
as they hope, into safety, and who return
slowly from the home of the dead, their heads
bent low and their voices unvarying in strains
of repentance and woe.

Not until all sounds of tumult cease to be
heard does Eli turn his rein or rest from the
precious load, which he bears as a father might
bear a child.

Then, as he was bidden, he stops in his
course, and from the height he has gained looks
down on the plain he has left behind and on
the burning city.

The city is one dense volume of smoke,
from whence tongues of flame dart up as if they
lapped the smoke like tongues of raging fiends
tearing along the gloom.

And now, as the wind for an interval
sweeps the volumes of smoke away, the dome of
the Temple stands out bright and fair, crowned
by a spirit white-robed and brilliant as silver,
grasping with her left hand the horn of flame and
waving a mantle of golden splendour with her
right, towards him, EH, and his kingly burthen*

The flames ascend around and from
beneath the dome ; the dome seems suspended
in mid air ; then sinks below. The shining
spirit alone remains, clothed as with a garment
of fire and cloud of glory, which, raised
by the air into the vault above, leaves the
vast void of the firmament free of all trace of
mortal form, substance or shadow.

CHAPTEE Xii.

so HIGH, SO LOW.

Covered with ashes and dust, Severus fights
like a demon the livelong day ; he knows no
rest, feels no fatigue.

Seize ! seize ! seize ! seize the Pretender
and the woman who abets him, and bring them
to me,' is his unceasing cry.

When the Jews themselves turn against
their king the plans of Severus are checked ;
and apprised of the revolt, he slackens his
attack, that they, thinking him beaten, maybe
appeased and return to the fight.

They must not kill their King nor seize
their Prophetess. That is his task and duty.

But the fires he has kindled in things and
in men are past his control. The fires now
are the tyrants, which not even the legions
of Severus nor Severus himself can tread out.

On the opposite side of the blazing city,
opposite to the side on which Eli stands
with his royal but dethroned burthen, the
Eoman leader has planted his standard, and
for a moment rests to pause and think. His
hand is weary of slaughter, and his mind is
weary of details. He must pause to think
what next to do.

His eyes turn naturally to the citadel.

Whilst that remains, the enemy is there to
be captured and the battle has still to be won.

And now, before his bewildered sight the
scene which Eli sees is at the same moment
enacted, and Huldah vanishes for ever in
glory from the sight of the conqueror.

The surprise sharpens him back into fury.

Severus is mad ; he strikes his own shield-bearer,
strikes every one he meets, and
rushing into the entrenchments, and from the
entrenchments into the city, now a heap of
ruins, does nothing but slay man, woman,
youth, maiden, child, infant, until from sheer
weariness he is forced to retire to his tent
and seek repose.

He bids the trumpets cry a cessation of the
slaughter.

Let the fire go on, but let the sword rest
for the night.'

Severn s will feast, eat, drink and fall to the
earth a log, once more.

He sleeps deep, does this conquered conqueror
; sleeps into the morning that succeeds
the awful day ; awakes, as is his custom after
such sleeps, like a fury, and, approached with
dread by all around him, deals out madness like
lightning, thunder, and hail.

Spare none,' is his first raving command.

What would my lord have done to the
Jew Akiba? ' asks an attendant with a timorous
voice.

*Akika! Akiba! Akiba! What, does he
live?'

He doth, my lord, but is faint with hunger
thirst, and want of rest.'

Indeed. Let Akiba be flayed alive.'

The attendant blanches as he hears the
terrible sentence, for his heart has been
touched by the old man, and he turns away
appalled.

Come back,' is the answer to this mute
appeal, ' I revise the order. Let Akiba be
flayed alive with red-hot pincers, and do thou,

coward, see it done, and with thy own lips
report me the result.'

My lord ! '

Go, or accept the same fate on thine own
account.'

Appeal is vain, and the wretched servitor,
more wretched than Akiba himself, flies from
the presence which he dare not face nor disobey.


Moved next by a new impulse, Severus
with a guard of honour rides over the ruined
city, and gives his further instructions in
regard to it.

'Let every stone and trace of it be destroyed,
so that no man shall ever know where
the city of this rebel Simeon stood. Let it
have no record, no name, and if his body be
found let it be instantly burned. But the
prophetess, if she be discovered, let me see
her even dead.'

And over the ruins, everywhere, he himself
seeks, but seeks in vain, for that sacred
remnant of immortality.

How shall she be found who hath ascended
into heaven ? ' he finds written in his

own tongue on the door of his own pavilion
when he comes home from his fruitless inspection.


What hand wrote the saying none can tell,
except it were that of Akiba, who on his way
to execution seemed to put out his hand ashe
passed the door, but did not touch the door.

Akiba ! Let the man come who was
witness of the sentence on Akiba.'

With pale visage and saddened eyes the
witness takes his place.

Didst thou obey my orders ? '

I did, my lord, to the end.'

And were they carried out? '

They were, my lord.'

'And what said the man Akiba to the
sentence and the infliction of it.^ What were
his words?'

'Here Israel, THE Lord Ole GOD IS
ONE Lord.'

And then ? '

And then he died.'

He died nobly. Go and see his body
burned, but repeat not the words he said to
any one, at thy peril.'

In a few short days, the New Jerusalem,
the beautiful city, is razed to the ground, so
that no one could ever know where it had
been.

The triumphant conqueror marches with
his army to Scythopolis, and rests there before
making his way back to the Holy City.

His fit of madness is over, and the bitterness
of reaction has set in. Julius Severus is not,
even to himself, the Severus of the olden time.

He has played false to Caesar in serving
him. The falseness may be balanced by the
success, but still it is falseness, and the fact is
not a pleasure. If he were Caesar and one of
his generals played him false in the same manner,
what would he do ?

The contemplation brings annoyance, if
not alarm.

After all too, he has lost that which he
most wished to find, and has been the cause of
the death of the one person for whom of all
others he most desired to live.

He feels himself a man accursed, a man
beyond the hope of the recovery of a lost
soul.

In his excitement the physical centres of
his most powerful intellectual endowments
have died before their time ; and, they dead, he
has little life. They were, in his distempered
kingdom of life, all his life.

The soldiers cheer him no more. He rides
less surely and more cautiously ; when he walks
he looks around as if some one was behind to
kill him. When he sits still he becomes lost
in an empty calculation. When he goes to
his couch he neither rests nor sleeps.

Bacchus, his oldest idol, forsakes him ; wine
devours him now, but neither inflames nor
pacifies. He understands too well the story of
Prometheus, and the bird of prey that devoured
his inward vital parts.

Worse than all, his great desire is still to
live, still to rule, still to rise higher in the
ruling ranks of the world. Never more earnestly
did he yearn for the throne of the
Caesarss and the governance of the world, than
in these ages of misery.

In the camp of Scythopolis he stays to
make some changes of military government.
He determines to open a military road between
that fortress and the little camp at Salem,

which Eufus constructed. He will also lay a
perfect raihtary road from Salem to Jerusalem,
and again from Jerusalem to Joppa. The
province will then be quite safe from any other
rebellion like that of the boasting Son of a
Star and pretended Messiah.

Busied in these affairs his mind is becoming
more tractable, his sleep more comfortable,
his life more equable. He begins once again
to humour himself with hope. He will return
soon to Jerusalem and will rule for a short
period there ; afterwards, on the ground of the
necessity of resuming his charge of Britain,
he will visit Eome and feel his way to the
succession after Hadrian, who, childless and
friendless, as he believes, will name no
successor, but will leave the senate and
the army to make the choice of the next
Emperor.

A reverie of these things to come, indulged
in by the lonely man in his tent at
Scythopolis, is broken by the appearance of an
escort from Jerusalem bearing a message from
tie Deputy-governor Fortunatus. Like all
the productions of Fortunatus, the missive is
concise and to the point.

VOL. III. u

To Julius Severus, Commanding in the Camp at

SCYTHOPOLIS, AND LATE GOVERNOR OF PALESTINE

AND OF Britain.

Severus, — Our august master Caesar has suddenly
come in person to Jerusalem, and commands you to send
him the proposed treaty drawn up by the late Governor
Tinnius E-ufus, Tryphon the achates, Akiba the scholar
of the Jews, Huldah the prophetess, and the man called
Simeon the Son of a Star.

Caesar also demands to know the fate of the beloved
Tryphon, of Huldah, and of Simeon, and the reason for the
death of the hostage Akiba, of which he has heard. Meantime
you are deposed as Governor of Palestine and of
Britain, and are exiled to Vienne in Gaul, whither the
escort herewith sent is commissioned to convey you.

FORTUNATUS.

By order of Hadrian, Emperor.

Ave C^sar !

The combination of rage and jealousy
that settles on the countenance of the degraded
Governor is more than pen can tell. For an
instant, the idea of rebellion enters his mind ;
but not a sign of sympathy indicates that his
soldiers will give him the slightest support.
He has out-cleared C^sar, and the army he
has raised, ruled by fear and without any root
of affection, is dead to his half-suppressed call.

Driven by necessity Severus bows to his

fate. He is not the first Eoman ruler of
Palestine who has been exiled to the same
spot, or been subjected to the same misfortune.


A prisoner now, but once more immovable
as ever, JuHus Severus, surrounded by a strong
guard sent by Caesar, to not one of whom he
is personally known, is borne away from power
and ere long from life.

The degradation and removal of Severus
is a proof of the wisdom displayed by Hadrian
whenever he lends himself to the cares of
government. The Jews everywhere approve,
and, smitten to the death by the hand of iron,
are only too willing to submit to any terms
which the clement Caesar shall deign to offer.
Practically, the clement Caesar deigns to offer
much more than they expect. In all respects
except the kingship he abides by the treaty
of Eufus, and in commemoration of the great
reconciliation strikes a medal in which he is
represented offering the palm of peace to
Israel and Judah,

V 2

CHAPTEE Xiii.

THE KING OF SLAVES.

By the shore of a gently running river, and
under the light of the stars, the Son of a Star
becomes conscious of his new and fallen
state.

The star of kingship is still on his brow,
but its brightness is gone. The stars above it
mock it, and its owner forgets its presence.

The wound he received led to much loss
of blood, but the shock he sustained in falling
severed him, for the time, from the living world
more completely than the open wound.

A strong and gentle hand is holding to his
lips a shell filled with water, and as he tastes
and drinks his senses come back to their duty
and his memory revives.

In the gloom he sees that the man who
tends him with a woman's gentle care is Eli,
the Numidiann, his first foe, his latest friend.

Have I slept long, Eli, have I slept too
long?'

Thou hast slept from the morning even
until the second night.'

My people ! where are my people, and
v^rhere are we ? Where is Huldah ? Where
are my people, and where are we ? '

Thy people, alas ! I know not. But
Huldah, like Elijah the prophet, has ascended
to heaven ; and we, alone, alone, are resting
in the humble dwelling of Ruth the daughter
of the nazarene woman who concealed Elkanah,
the father of Huldah, when he escaped from
the cross. For the moment we are safe, but
the danger is imminent if it should be discovered
that we have escaped the flames.'

And then, in a few words, he tells the defeated
king all that has occurred, and the mode
of his rescue from the popular fury.

Beaching this place,' he continues,' where
I knew there was a temporary refuge, and
beyond which I could not have carried thee
farther, we rest here in secrecy, until
Michael the husband of Euth, a shepherd, as
thou once wert, and who is now on this way
to Tyre on the noble horse on which I bore thee,

finds, if possible, the merchant Eeuben, and
arranges for our final safety from the ravenous
and despairing fugitives of the destroyed
city ; who flocking into Phoenicia, to avoid
the fury of Severus, which spares none
that it can reach, and stigmatising thee as
the Son of Lies, would treat thee, and me
also, as they treated Tryphon, whom they tore
to pieces and cast into the fire, and whose
death I hear, even from this hiding-place, some
declare, was due to thy evil machinations.'

On the roof of a little house by the side of
the gently flowing river running into the great
sea of middle earth not far from Tyre, Simeon
learns this news of his ruin and his danger.
He recals the days of his childhood, when on
the roof of a similar simple tenement he was
the child of Akiba ; and, as with the break of
day he hears the busy Euth astir in the rooms
beneath the place on which he lies, he thinks
it must be the good Naomi, the mother of Akiba,
preparing the morning meal. The delusion is
dispelled by the voices of wailing and execration
which force themselves on his ear.

A crowd of fugitives surround the little
dwelling on their way to Tyre, where they

believe there is food and protection ; for the
people of Tyre have forbidden the Eoman
soldiers from staining their peaceful city with
blood, and their free and outspoken words
have been heeded.

If the fugitives can only reach Tyre they
are safe ; but they are footsore, heart-broken,
hungry, and furious.

Euth, with a woman's tact, appeases them.
She pities their sufferings ; she entices them
down to the little river to wash their feet ;
she seats them by the bank, and fetches them
all the food her house contains ; they bless
her for her charity, eat the bread of bitterness,
and pour out all their woes.

Simeon and Eli, lying still on the roof of
the house, are obliged to listen to the sorrows
that are told. A mother has had her sweet
babe torn from her breast and knows not
where it is, dead or alive ; a worn old man
has seen his only son hewn down by a Eoman
soldier while trying to bear father and mother
from the fire ; a maiden has lost her betrothed ;
a strong man, covered with burns and wounds,
prays that he may die and be free of his
misery ; a pious woman, who has led them

SO far on the way to Tyre, cheers them with
hope, and assures them that the hand of the
Lord is not weakened that it cannot save, and
that His mercy endure for ever.

It is indeed a bitter cry, and under it all
sounds the deathly bass : ' Woe, woe, woe, to
the Son of Lies and his enchantments ! cursed
be the hour in which he. was born ; cursed
the father that begot him, the mother that
bore him ! '

At last they break up, and with a yell of
wrath against the Son of Lies, mingled with
blessings on the head of the gentle Euth and
her two children, they proceed on their
journey, carrying, by turns, the wounded man
on a litter of straw.

To save the dethroned king Euth has
emptied her house of bread, so that when her
little ones cry out for food she has none to
give them, and until Michael her husband
arrives there is no one to go forth to Tyre to
buy more ; for the raving fugitives continue
to pass by, and her actual succour from their
rage is : ' I have fed, I have fed, I have fed
the famishing, until my own dear ones die for
lack of sustenance.'

At length, when Eli, unable to bear the
sight of hunger any longer, is about to risk all
and go out and obtain bread, Michael returns
on foot, laden with food and raiment of various
kinds, and bringing with him Eeuben the
merchant of Tyre.

And when they are all fed and the glow
of life is restored, while Michael is watchful
outside the house that no stragglers may hear
the voices of those within, Eeuben the merchant
explains to Simeon and Eli the means for
setting them free ; after which, with the blue
curtain of night for their canopy, they lay
themselves down to sleep.

To the two fugitives it is a sleep of Paradise.
Over them, as they think, angels move
and breaths of angels meet their lips. EH is
at the right hand of Huldah once more, in the
Eoman forest where the Empress hunted the
boar ; Simeon is in Juverna again, in the temple
of Elbana, in the front of the altar there, and
with Erine at his heart.

When they awake Eeuben the merchant
is ready to play the part he has devised.

The body of Eli is stained as it was in the
days when he fought with wolves in Siluria ;

he is clad, once again, in the hide of a bear,
and a huge sapling cut from a neighbouring
thicket is shaped and given him to carry like
his club of old.

Simeon, divested of all signs of royalty, is
arrayed as an athlete of the arena, his thick
hair is matted, rings are placed in his ears, his
complexion is darkened, his feet are shod with
sandals of wood, and his arms are decorated
with rings of metal as signs of the number of
the victories he has won.

In their new costume they descend to the
room of Euth and her children, to see such
joy as was never beheld before in her face orin
the faces of Michael and the babes. For
they have been visited by an angel, and have
obtained wealth untold to their minds, so that
they are rich for ever. Behold, too, Euth
wears a scarf of Tyrian blue, Michael a coat
like that of Joseph, of many colours, and the
babes dresses of pink and flowers.

But not much is said, for many words
might carry many woes. Even the gay robes
must be removed or hidden away for a
brighter time.

In great triumph Eeuben is soon on his

way to Tyre, joined in clue time by two
persons inferior to himself who meet him with
a caravan in which he drives with his
'dearly bought slaves,' Simeon and Eli, into
Tyre, and puts up at the inn of the ' Great
Galley ' in the market-place of slaves.

The market of slaves in the City of Tyre
is the emporium of the world for dealers in
flesh and blood. So famous is it that no slave
of mean quality is permitted on the block
for view of sale, and no merchant of second
rank is permitted in the auditorium to inspector
view, or buy. Amongst slaves themselves
a slave of Tyre is a ' prince of slaves,' and the
slave who has been last sold for most money
is ' the king of slaves.' There have been slaves
of Tyre so valued that they have been envied
of free men : some for their writings, some
for their great skill in healing, some for their
physical prowess, some for their masculine
or feminine beauty. Great chiefs, emperors,
kings, men of wealth of the school of Croesus,
send their agents to Tyre for the purchase,
at any price, of the slaves of the special quality
they require.

And here, too, rich speculators come to

buy ; for to hold in possession a slave of Tyre
is to have a property that can any day and
anywhere be sold again, with interest on the
capital that has been spent.

It is a great sale day of slaves, and Eeuben
the merchant, who has made many a handsome
penny in this line, has two choicest of slaves
to be put up for sale.

Both are athletes. The one for strength
and beauty cannot be surpassed, the other
for strength and for skill with the club and
the sword.

Side by side, Simeon and Eli are once
more set forth as if for contest ; to be bought
by rival buyers and then led, many say, to
Rome, or Ephesus, or Athens, to fight therewith
each other or with beasts trained to
fight with men.

The practised eyes of competent judges
sweep over them, and the voices belonging
to the eyes congratulate the merchant
Reuben.

Since the days of the first Caesar there has
never been on the market of Tyre such a slave

as the young athlete, not one in all respects
so perfect in mould and movement.

The dark slave is splendid also, and his
mastery of the club marvellous ; but his very
size despoils his beauty and gives him second
rank.

He is ' a prince ' ; his comrade, of richer
slavish blood, is to be the new 'King of
Slaves.'

So be it.

The sale when it comes on is the event of
years. The bidding is the fiercest of the fierce.
The giant slave is put up first, and after a
furious contest is declared to belong to Goscius,
Goscius of Memphis, the rich Greek who sails
with the Philosopher of the Western Seas.

The fate of Simeon follows with even
fiercer strife. The bidding becomes infectious
to insanity, so that Eeuben thinks it prudent to
withdraw from the scene. If the slave were
put into one scale and gold into another, the
slave would draw down his own weight. He
is truly worth his weight in gold. Goscius the
rich Greek of Memphis is again the purchaser ;
and Simeon the Son of a Star is, as predicted,
THE King of Slaves.

Yea ! king once more ; and, happier, richer
king than ever in thy fitful and strange
career. Not with thy wildest wishes, oh king,
not with thy ambitions of universal empire
fulfilled, wert thou so blessed or thy kingship
so exalted as in thy new quality of kingship.

For thou, the 'King of Slaves,' hast for
thy kingdom the truest heart, the sweetest, the
purest, the gentlest nature that monarch of
any race or land or time hath ever owned.

Erine Leoline ! Erine beloved ! he is by
thy side again. Thy father resigns thee to
him as before ; the heart of ' Leviathan ' leaps
for joy ; and the lonely priest by the fire of
the altar in the Temple of Groves in Elbana,
wonders what illustrious strangers that fire
forecasts.

Along the bosom of the great sea ' Leviathan
' pursues her course of love and happiness
towards Juverna, the Isle of Peace and Beauty.

And thou, EU! indeed a prince of slaves,
art once more free. ' Goscius will find for
thee thy place amongst us, great Eli, twice

slave, twice freed-man, and in our island
home all will welcome thee.'

I thank thee, my noble Leon,' is the firm
reply, ' and fain would I see the two souls
we so love made one. But in these eastern
climes I have duties predominant. I must
seek, once, once more the home of my fathers !
I must learn if the sweet voices of my
childhood still say, Eli, Eli, come ! and I must
return, Ashen all is quiet, to the place where
my own heart rests, the holy ground where
my divine mistress took her departure for the
skies.'

He is so decided in his determination it
would, they feel, be cruel to oppose it, and
they agree to part from him when he shall
give the word, but still they sail on and
still they linger and defer the parting
hour.

At last, sailing towards the west and bearing
a little to the north, they sight land near
where ancient Carthage had its golden day, and
there on a point of land by Utica they slacken
in their voyage and approach the coast. It is
the afternoon of the day in which they are to
say their Ipse farewells.

The crew of the little boat that is to carry
the truest of men to the shore is dressed in its
gayest costume ; for in ' Leviathan ' there must
be no sorrow. Friends who part from her
are sure to meet again some time. Hath
not Mithra declared it to all the blessed of the
earth ?

The little boat draws to the side of
Leviathan, the fair hand of Erine is devoutly
kissed. ; the sailors receive their final greetings ;
the guide rope is lowered, and Leon and
Simeon are preparing to accompany their
guest to the shore.

Nay, friends of my heart, break not
that which is now nearly broken ; let your
poor servant make his departure in peace
alone.'

The grasp of Leon is unloosed ; the last
sentence of his hips is spoken, and Simeon, like
a child, is close in the loving embrace of his
friend and foe.

My King ! my King ! my Star ! ever my
Star ! Star of the morning, let me leave thee
to the Star of the night.' So, resigning his
charge to Erine, Eh descends and is pulled
rapidly to the land.

The little boat returns, and ' Leviathan ' sails
on with every eye on her turned to catch the
last sign of the lonely man whom they have
left behind.

At the point of land where Eli has set foot
a grand column of rock rises upwards like
a needle to a height far above the sea. Up
steps which none but he could ascend he
climbs and combs, until the summit is attained
from which ' Leviathan ' is still in sight.

They on board answer his signal ; they
hoist a banner, and wave again and again the
long farewell ! Farewell ! farewell !

In one of the latest conversations he has
had with Leon, Eli has heard from that
philosopher the story of the legend which is
worn on the breast of Simeon : and now the
description of that symbolic reading stands
out before him as if it were written on the
face of the sky. The youth with the star on his
forehead and bearing aloft a torch of flame is
there before him as in the picture. The youth
rising to the sun in his meridian is there;
the youth descending to the west with head
VOL. m. X

downcast and torch extinguished at his feet,
is there.

The son of an illustrious king before whom
the stars fled and of Palestrina of the Temple,
sent to deliver his people from bondage and
tribulation,' but rejected of them, is there.

The legend holds true and with the declining
orb of day, over which he seems to float,
the Son of a Star is about to sink into th
night, leaving the world in its darkness, pain
and sorrow.

No I For see ! see 1 at the edge of the
horizon ' Leviathan,' looking like a crescent
moon, surmounted in the heavens by Leo of
the Stars, cradles him, and a new Hght is
reflected from him ; the light of love of the
radiant spirit who bears him company deep
into the beauteous west.

'Tis a last fancy, brave Eli ! a last fancy
of thy strained and enchanted sense. He is
simply borne away from thy gaze by the
waves and the winds to happier glories than
he has ever hoped to win.

A moment more, and he is hidden from thee,
brave Eli! hidden by the mighty mountain of

the sea ; and now from thy pillar of observation
thou may est turn thy face homewards,
as we, holding thee last in sight, awake from
our vision and turn our faces, once more, to
the world of common life in which we move
and have our being.

THE END.

Printed BY

si'0'msn-ooDE and co., xew-street square

UJSDOS
