•.♦(^^'?■"-■

vife^M"^

^■;*S'i;i>'W ;-' v ::■■:/-

V '■-<:

•'.!;■ >^ ■:

■%i'»

:iv»^-'

s?v:M*i*igi:^Si

^?!^i^

.At' ,;. .> -S;

■^P^-

ilitel-^-':^fe

A'

PRINCE Frederick

BY

JAMES BRINSLEY- RICHARDS

AUTHOR OF ' SEVEN YEARS AT ETON,' ' THE DUKE's MARRIAGE,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLS.— VOL. I

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY & SOX, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

^SulilisfjErs in ©rtiinarg to I&et iHajcstg tfje ©u£m



A II rights reset vet

K

X

\

LOVINGLY

Setiicateti to

MY WIFE

In her it never was my chance to find
A thought uncandid, or a word unkind ;
The gentlest spirit with the bravest mind.

PRINCE Frederick

CHAPTER I

My uncle, the Bishop of Surrey, who must
have found me a troublesome relative, for
he had plenty of his own young ones to
provide for, wrote to me one day saying
that he thought he could at last put a good
appointment in my way, and he requested
me to call on him the next morning.

The situation offered was that of private
secretary to Prince Frederick of Kronheim.
His Royal Highness wanted an English
secretary in order that he might practise

VOL. I I

our language, and he stipulated sundry
conditions not usual in connection with
such posts, and which, as it happened, I
could fulfil. His secretary was to be : 'An
orphan of good education, not engaged to
be married ; fond of dangerous sports, able
to ride, skate, and sing. A tall man, very
particular about his dress, and of good
nerve at the card-table preferred.'

The Bishop looked slightly shocked,
but amused, as he read from a letter bearing
the stamp of a British Legation. 'All
this is written to me by my old friend. Sir
George Malmsey, our Minister at Labels
I should have expected him to say
that he wanted a double first-class man,
but nothing is said about double or single
first-class : so I may indulge in a piece of
nepotism.'

And do you really advise me to accepts'

Why not, if they accept you ? We
must tell them that you never took a university
degree, but that you were five years
in the dragoons and could say, Military
non sine gloria. Ah ! but how about the
other line in that ode, Vii pulls nuper
idomeneus ? You are not engaged to be married,
Dandie ? '

No, sir.' Dandie was a school nickname
corrupted from my name of Ferdinand.


'We are right on that score then, but
stay, here is a sequel to the letter,' and the
Bishop scanned the paper at arm's length
through his spectacles. ' The Prince is a
little eccentric . . . '

Hem, that means insane . . . ?'

No. Sir George does not say insane.
He writes : " The Prince is a little eccentric.
From what I have seen of him and from

all I hear I should take him to be a man of
talent who frets under the restraints of his
position. He talks well, and can be very-amiable,
but is not liked. I daresay he has
an ugly temper, but please treat this as
confidential'"

My good uncle closed the letter, remarking
mildly that the temper of all princes
was like a nettle and required careful handling.
As for Prince Frederick's requirement
of ' an orphan, unengaged,' he presumed
this proviso meant simply that His
Royal Highness desired a secretary who
had no strong ties in England, and could
therefore attach himself to another country.
For the rest, Dandie,' he said seriously,
this is a chance, and I would not let it slip.'

I had inherited a small Irish property,
but my tenants had decided not to pay
their rents, and that is why I had left the

army. Soldiering on seven-and-sixpence
a day would have been a fine feat, but it
was above my ambition. I had been told
that if I freely renounced my rents and setup
as a penitent landlord I might be elected
to the House of Commons in the 
interest, and be salaried out
of a fund raised by Irish kitchen-maids in
America. I had also received an offer to
sell wines on commission in houses where
I was invited to evening parties and five
o'clock teas. I might have become the
secretary of a club for bringing the two
sexes together ; and an old schoolfellow,
who was doing capitally as a bookmaker,
had proposed that I should go partners
with him — a suggestion which my uncle
the Bishop, who imagined that bookmaking
must be connected with publishing, had at
first earnestly advised me to accept. But

this offer of becoming secretary to Prince
Frederick was the first eligible thing that
had fallen in my way since I had laid aside
my helmet and red coat ; and of course I
did not let the chance slip.

So my uncle wrote Sir George Malmsey
an extremely conscientious letter, in which
he described me as a good-natured dunce
in whose fingers sovereigns melted like
butter. Talk of jobbery ! why, the good
old man would rather have lodged and
boarded me in his over populated palace
for the remainder of his life than have
written a line about me to which he could
not have sworn as an affidavit. I laughed
outright when he handed me his letter to
read, and was more than surprised when
an answer arrived within a week, snatching,
as it seemed to me, somewhat eagerly at
my services, and promising me a salary

equal to the full pay of a colonel in our
army, besides free quarters.

My orders were to start at once ; and
now I ought to have emulated the conscientiousness
of my uncle by informing him
that although not engaged to be married
(the determined attitude of my tenants on
the rent question debarred all idea of supporting
a wife), yet I had a hope that if
something or other turned up, Connie
Davenant, my old General's daughter,
would put her pretty portionless hand in
mine. I did say a word or two on the
subject, but the Bishop only exclaimed,
Pish-tush ! ' and advised me to say nothing
about this to my aunt if I wished to preserve
her good opinion. My Aunt Episcopal
took very severe views of the portionless.

Something enough to provide two
daily rations of bread and cheese,' was the

way in which I had once stated my hopes
to Connie, whose reply was : ' Bread would
be enough for me, Ferdie,' and I believe
the dear little girl would have been content
with a crust for that matter. But
Mrs. Davenant was on the watch — a
motherly, frank-spoken, domineering woman,
shrewd with the experience of garrison
towns. Connie had three hungry
brothers at school and two younger sisters.
Half-pay, agricultural depression, and investments
at two per cent, kept the family
funds at low tide ; and then I was in Mrs.
Davenant's bad books because I had not
exchanged into a West Indian regiment.
Bermuda, she said, had a frustrate climate,
and was just the place for a young
man who had no business to think of
marrying.

One word, however, had to be spoken

to Connie before I went to Kronheim. I
called in Cromwell Road at a few minutes
before six, calculating that the last afternoon
visitor would be gone, or going, and
that I might possibly be invited to stay for
dinner. The stone balcony with its geraniums
and pink awning received a wistful
glance from me as I knocked at the door,
for I had caught sight of Connie in a light
blue forward dress ; but she was talking
with Fred Lemesurier, the man with an
eyeglass, a white hat, and a red tie, who is
heir to a peerage and sits for a Radical
constituency in Parliament. We exchanged
opinions about this gentleman in
two glances that crossed over his shining
amber head, but not a word in private
passed between us ; and I was not invited
to dinner. Lemesurier had this favour,
and pulling out his watch talked of going

home to dress. ' No, pray don't dress,'
said Mrs. Davenant, 'we shall be quite
alone.'

Mrs. Davenant was tall and handsome,
always very smartly dressed in imperial-looking
silks, and she wore becoming caps
made of about four square inches of point
lace. She had a good-humoured twinkle
in her eyes, and these always looked you
straight in the face. She stood on no
ceremony with me, for when I was a ' sub '
in her regiment had I not fetched and
carried for her, driven her in drags, rowed
her on rivers, led her cotillons for her and
kept her visiting list ?

On this occasion she was charming ; for
she was delighted to hear that I was going
abroad. ' Such a nice place Kronheim,
and just the post for you. I am sure you
will be marrying a German wife soon.

Mind you bring her here, even if she is
mad on Wagner.' This was said loud
and laughing, so as to reach Connie's
ears.

When Mrs. Davenant was called away
for a moment to give a domestic order
she made some imperceptible sign to the
General, who marched up to me with a
one, two, three, like a relief sentry. My
old chief was a little man with a blue
spotted neckerchief, a creaseless frock coat,
gray trousers and gaiters. When angry,
he twisted a moustache which was white
as cotton wool : when pleased, he winked
and prodded you in the ribs. He was a
fierce Tory, and wagging his head towards
Lemesurier, who was still on the balcony,
he said : ' We're taking that fellow in
hand. I'm hanged if a week ago he didn't
think the army estimates too high.'

But not a word could I get with Connie.
I had to go, and there was a squeeze — a
long squeeze of the hand — with just one
more glance, which mamma observed.
Accordingly Mrs. Davenant followed me
out of the drawing-room, and, closing the
door, spoke to me on the landing.

Dandie — Mr. Meredith, I have a word
to say to you. You must not be writing
to Connie from abroad or think of her anymore,
for you can't marry her.'

Well, but '

There's no but about it : and it's not
fair on the child that you should spoil her
chances in life. So don't let me see your
good-looking, good-for-nothing face again
until you or she are married.'

'That's hard lines, Mrs. Davenant.'

It's duty, Mr. Meredith : so good-bye.
You can write to me if you like, for you

and I are old friends. There now, be off
with you.'

Three days after this I arrived at Kron-
hei. Sir George Malmsey's carriage
was waiting for me at the railway station
and drove me to the Legation, where I
was to stay for the night. There was a
dinner-party, and I had only time for a few
minutes' conversation with Sir George — a
bluff and hearty old gentleman with more
of the country squire than of the diplomatist
about him — before going up to change
my things. When I came downstairs the
drawing-room had its gathering of guests.
I was introduced to a small shrivelled man
with spectacles, and a broad yellow riband
across his waistcoat, to whom everybody
spoke with great respect, and who was
Count Hochort, Prime Minister of the

country. It seemed to me that he scrutinised
me very narrowly ; and I fancied —
though I could not have said why — that
he was displeased to find that I spoke
German. Several times during the dinner
I met his cold sharp eye, which was
fastened on me with an expression neither
friendly nor unfriendly, but prying.

I paid little attention to this, for I
was seated beside a lovely and agreeable
English girl, a Miss Meadowes, who was
on a visit to Sabelburg with her mother
Lady Springfield. She had a face and
figure like those girls whom Mr. Du
Married is so fond of sketching. Tall,
dark, with sparkling eyes, sedate and self-possessed
in manner, but full of talk,
she made a delightful companion. After
dinner, when we joined the ladies in the
drawing-room, she sang a couple of English

songs in a beautifully-trained soprano
voice, and I turned over the leaves of her
music for her. This led me to sit beside
her after the singing ; but she became
silent and absent, till, supposing I had tired
her, I made a pretence of moving away.
But suddenly she cast a curious glance on
me, and rising, said :

Sir George has one of the prettiest
conservatories. You ought to see it.'

I followed her : but my astonishment
may be imagined when, as soon as we
were alone, she turned and whispered
eagerly :

Mr. Meredith, excuse this boldness ina
perfect stranger, but do you know why
you have been brought here ? '

I have been offered an appointment,' I
began, stammering.

Then, for God's sake take care,' she

interrupted. ' I can say no more than this,
for I know little, but if you have friends in
England who would grieve if anything
happened to you — go home.'

One question,' I asked quickly. * Is
this Prince Frederick mad ? '

No, it's worse than that,' she answered
breathless; 'but I can't say more. If I
learn more you shall know. There's somebody
coming.'

She abruptly left me ; and turning
round I saw Count Hochort, whose glance
followed the retreating girl like a hawk's.

All this was not so good as a dose of
chloral for making one sleep. I lay awake
in bed several hours thinking over Miss
Meadowes's warning, but without seeing
how I could profit by it, except by keeping
on the look-out. Evidently there was
something wrong about Prince Frederick ;
but Miss Meadowes had rather overdone
it by saying that this something was worse
than madness.

The singular conditions of my engagement
recurred to me. * Fond of dangerous
sports, and with a good nerve at the card-vol.

I 2

table' To the mind of a young lady it
might seem that a prince who had a
passion for hunting wolves and bears, and
who risked arose sums at baccarat, was
more dangerous than a peaceable lunatic.
So perhaps Miss Meadowes had only been
animated by a flattering anxiety for my
limbs and morals.

If she had been a bread-and-butter
miss this explanation would have satisfied
me. Recollecting her face and manner, it
did not ; and I was haunted by presentiments
of strange things. But to go home
and say that I had been scared away from
Kronheim by a girl was out of the question.
If I was booked for an adventure
I must through with it.

Breakfast was brought to my room in
the morning, and at ten o'clock a Court
carriage came to fetch me. Sir George

Malmsey met me in the hall, and said
cheerfully, ' My duty to Prince Frederick,
and mind you come to us when you have
nothing better to do. By the by, there's
a message from Lady Malmsey with this
book, which she promised to lend the
Prince. Will you please take charge of
it ? It's Herbert Spencer's last volume.

I must have stared at the book, for the
minister smiled and said something about
hard nuts for princely teeth to crack'
Had the volume been the Manual of the
Perfect Card-player, or Wild Sports in
the trackless Desert, my night thoughts
would have received confirmation, but
Herbert Spencer threw me into fresh
perplexities.

The carriage was a brougham, with a
pair of finely-trotting greys. The servants
wore blue liveries with orange facings. We

drove through the principal streets of the
town, which were teeming with the usual
bustle of continental cities on a sunny
morning. Cafes, restaurants, and tramways
everywhere. Plenty of priests,
market-women in picturesque costumes,
and swarms of officers and soldiers in
uniforms of Prussian cut. The carriage
passed through a much-gilded gate, where
two sentries presented arms, while a big
door porter, dressed like a beadle, bowed,
sweeping his cocked hat level with his
knees. We drove through a courtyard
carpeted with thick gravel, and so to a
door, where the officer on guard received
me, lifting a white-gloved hand to his
helmet and clicking his heels smartly
together.

My regimental servant, Joe Roman,
whom I had brought with me, took charge

of my luggage, which followed the carriage
in a small Court omnibus ; and I was
ushered upstairs at once to a suite of
apartments on the second floor, which a
major-domo, in black silk stockings and
with a steel chain round his neck, respectfully
informed me were to be mine. The
rooms were large and contained handsome
ungainly furniture of the Empire style, at
least eighty years old. Oil portraits of
princes in out-of-date uniforms hung on
the walls. In some of the rooms the
chairs and sofas were coloured red, in
others yellow. Drawing-room, study, bedroom,
dressing-room were all e7i suite, and
looked on to a garden with trim-kept
flower - beds, gravel walks, and white
statues.

I had to wait nearly an hour — time
enough for Joe to unpack most of my

things — before the major-domo reappeared
and said, * Seiner konicrliche Hoheit lass
bitten' (The Prince is ready to receive
you).

I had never seen a photograph of the
Prince, but had made a mental picture of
him which I guessed would not be realised.
At first sight he impressed me as a highly
intelligent and agreeable man. He was
wearing that neat undress German uniform,
the long double-breasted frockcoat,
buttoned up to the shoulder and with the
high red collar, which makes any man look
smart. He was a little over twenty-five, of
middle height, with brown wavy and curly
hair parted down the centre, and a short fair
beard. There was dignity in his manner,
but affability decidedly predominated ashe
returned my bow and motioned me to
a seat.

It is very good of you that you came
to Kronheim, Captain Meredith,' he said
in fluent though incorrect English ; ' but
I must tell you that it is Count Hochort
who said to me I must have an English
secretary, and I really do not know what
we shall find for you to do. You like
shooting, riding ? '

Very much, sir,' I answered, seeing
a drove of bears already loom on the
horizon.

It is well, then. And the other
accomplishments of a secretary are no
doubt yours? You speak French, German ?'

French poorly, German a little better,
sir,' I said, surprised; 'but your Royal
Highness will excuse me for remarking
that I was not engaged as a good linguist.
I hope there has been no misunderstanding
? '

Oh no — at least I know nothing about
it,' replied the Prince, lighting a cigarette.
It is the King who appoints members of
my household, and Count Hochort advises
his Majesty ; I pray you tell me how you
were engaged.'

I recapitulated the conditions stated in
Sir George Malmsey's letter to my uncle ;
and I could not make out from the Prince's
physiognomy whether he were offended.
Whatever may have been his first feelings,
he heard me attentively to the end, and
then laughed.

I remember to have once said to
Count Hochort that I hoped if ever he
gave me a new secretary in place of Dr.
Grinzener he would choose me a man who
knew a horse from a cow : for you see I
have no State business, and my correspondence
is more about sport than politics.

However, I say again you are very welcome,
Captain Meredith. And now tell
me ; you dined at your Legation yesterday,
and you met there a most beautiful young
lady. Miss Meadowes. Are her parents of
the highest aristocracy ? '

Lord Springfield is of old family, sir.
He was in the diplomatic service.'

Yes, I know ; but his daughter is very
proud. Are all the young ladies in England
so proud ? I have not found them so
when I have visited London.'

There was a gentle tap at the door,
and an aide-de-camp brought in a letter.
While the Prince read it I took a discreet
survey of the study, but without discovering
in it any marked indications of the
owner's character or tastes. The writing-table
was a heavy bureau encumbered
with papers. The book-shelves contained

volumes of all kinds, set without arrangement,
for valuable editions in gold-lettered
calf and morocco were flanked by yellow
French novels. On the walls hung portraits,
landscapes, pictures of battles,
trophies of arms, antlers, a graceful of
costly canes and riding-whips, a glass case
of curious old watches, and another case,
which held a number of odd things, such
as bits of rusty iron, and rags which must
have been relics. There were a good
many valuable knick-knacks lying about —
silver cigar-cases, match-boxes, pocketbooks
; and the floor was strewn with rich
furs, the finest being a huge white bearskin
spread over a divan.

The Prince having read his letter,
told me he was going out. ' I will send
Grinzener to you,' he said, 'and you can
settle with him about your work. You

will dine with me to-night. Have you a
uniform ? '

Holding a Yeomanry commission, I had
brought a uniform with me, but I had only
contemplated wearing it at Court balls, and
I thought it as well to explain my present
military position.

Yes, yes ; but wear your uniform,' said
the Prince. ' Everything is military here.
The babies are born with spurs on, and
the nurses lull them to sleep with kettledrums.'


Thereupon with a nod he intimated
that my audience was over.

Prince Frederick was heir-presumptive to
the throne of Kronheim : that is, he was
nephew of King Franz, who had only a
daughter. Prince Frederick was unmarried,
and the next in succession to him was
Prince Wolfgang, who had married the
King's daughter, and had a family increasing
at the rate of three in two years,
including twins.

This much I had learned from the
Almanac de Gotha. For my information
as to Prince Frederick's fortune and general
manner of life I was indebted, during the

first few days of my stay at Sabelburg, to
my servant Joe, for I scarcely spoke to
anybody else.

Returning to my rooms after my audience
with the Prince, I felt more puzzled
than ever about Miss Meadowes's warning.
There was something ludicrous in the contrast
between the Prince as I had found
him and the Prince whom my imagination
had pictured ; for I had nearly made up my
mind that I should have to do with a
young gentleman of weak intellect, or
with a sullen, passionate creature of vicious
instincts. Although no particularly good
judge of character, I felt already persuaded
that I should never be Prince Frederick's
master, though it was possible he might
acquire ascendency over me. I confess I
liked him.

Nobody took any notice of me for several

hours. Dim suspicions that I was the
victim of a practical joke disturbed me
ever and anon ; and I could not but reflect
that the terms of my engagement, having
been formulated without the Prince's knowledge,
were exceedingly impertinent to
him.

I kept pulling out my watch, but not
knowing whether I was at liberty to go out,
there was nothing for it but to kill time
until Dr. Grinzener turned up. I stared
into the garden, tried to write a letter, and
made ineffectual attempts to read. At
last, when two o'clock arrived without any
signs of luncheon, I rang for Joe, who
came up wiping his lips from his own
dinner in the servants' hall.

Joe, just try and find out what are the
hours for lunching and dining here.'

A quarter of an hour had not elapsed

before two powdered footmen came in
carrying a couple of silver trays. These
were set on a table in the study. The
fare provided was a mayonnaise of trout,
some paid de foie gras, a dish of cutlets,
fruit, two bottles of wine, red and white,
and a bottle of aerated waters. The footmen
were going to wait, but I dismissed
them. One then requested that I would
ring for coffee when I was ready.

They keep a frustrate table downstairs,
sir,' remarked Joe, as he removed the
plates, 'and most of the stable servants
are English. I dined with the two head
coachmen and head groom, all English,
and I don't think I ever saw finer horses,
sir — nearly a hundred of 'em.'

*We are not in the Royal palace, are

we ?

No, sir ; we are in Prince Frederick's

own palace. His Royal HIghness's sister,
the Princess Dorothea, lives here with her
ladies ; but they've got a wing to themselves.
The Prince don't live much here,
as I'm told. He's got a grand place on a
lake : they call it Griinsee, and another
place right on the top of a mountain,
where he goes for 'is shooting.'

Wolves, I daresay ? '

Lots of them, sir, it appears, and boars,
a kind of wild pig, so to say, not much seen
out of furrin parts. The dinner to-day,
sir, is at five o'clock. It's a grand affair
in honour of one of the Austrian archdukes,
and the guests 'ave to muster at
half-past four.'

Joe said nothing more then ; but later,
as I was dressing, he observed that Prince
Frederick was not so popular in the country
as his cousin Prince Wolfgang.

They say Prince Wolfgang is a smart
officer, sir, always a soldiering'. Prince
Frederick don't much care for the army.
But Prince Frederick spends a lot of money,
while Prince Wolfgang has a lot of babies.'

It's curious that Prince Frederick
shouldn't yet have married.'

Aye, sir. I asked Mr. Bobbs — he's the
head coachman — why his Royal Highness
didn't marry the King's daughter instead
of Prince Wolfgang doing it ; but it seems
there's all kinds of stories about that.
Prince Frederick 'as been engaged several
times to be married, but the matches was
always broken off.'

I must remind you, Joe, that it's your
duty to avoid speaking about the Prince
downstairs,' I interrupted at this point.

I'll be very careful, sir,' replied Joe,

but the conversations isn't what you might
VOL. I 3

think, sir. There ain't nothing mysterious
about 'em. The hall for the upper servants
is a large place, and servants coming in at
all moments calling' out for their dinners.
There's a special sort of upper footman
they call ckassoor, who sits beside the
Prince's coachman, and stands behind the
Prince's chair at meals. He wears a
cocked hat with white feathers like a
general, and appears to think a deal of
himself. As he don't do any work in the
way of handing plates and dishes about,
except waiting on the Prince himself, as
it seems, he hears all the conversation at
table ; and when he comes down among
the other servants he reports it all quite
free at the top of his voice.'

Is the household a large one ? '
Yes, sir, it is indeed. Grooms, footmen,
cookboys in white caps and aprons —

there'd be enough to remount two troops
with 'em ; and there's a goodish number
of females too. In one of the rooms I
saw at least twenty housemaids eating o'
their dinners and talking' away in German
like the cockatoos at the Zoological
Gardens.'

I had just put on my uniform — which
was much like that of the loth Hussars,
but with silver lace instead of gold — when
a card was brought me bearing the name,
Dr. Felix Grinzener, Royal Court Secretary
to H.R.H. Prince Frederick.'

I walked into the drawing-room and
saw a fat man with black clothes, a baldhead,
and a round pink face like a ripe
peach, having a quiet laugh to himself
opposite a looking-glass. He was stupefied
at the sight of me in my military
glory, and became grave for a moment.

but only for a moment. His face then
broke out into broad smiles again, and
remained grinning. He addressed me as
Dear colleague.' He patted my hand
between two plump warm hands of his
own, on one fat finger of which glittered
an enormous agate ring. He ogled me
quite affectionately through his 
double eyeglasses, and at
every remark I made he either gave an
enjoyable little laugh of assent or nodded
gleefully, stroking his chin with a soft noise
of a razor passing over lather.

I never saw a jollier man than this Dr.
Felix Grinzener.

He was not short, nor ill-favoured. He
reminded me of a good comic actor in
high comedy on the stage. Off the stage
comic actors are preoccupied with exercises
of memory, and their complexions have

been spoilt by whitening and rouge. But
Dr. Grinzener (he was a Doctor of Laws)
seemed to have not a trouble on his mind,
and his smooth brow had no more wrinkles
on it than a ball of lard. All the wrinkles
were wanted for his cheeks and chins,
which were everlastingly puckered up with
merriment.

It was contagious merriment too, which
set me laughing, though I should have
liked to know what I was laughing about.
The learned Doctor made no attempts at
being funny ; his good-humour was that of
the man who sits on the box of a stagecoach
ready to split his sides at the smallest
pleasantry of the coachman's, or at the
most common occurrences on the roadside.
Yet it was easy to see that he was no fool.
When it came to giving me instructions
about my work, he pretended that I should

have very little to do, and might gad to
and fro as I pleased ; nevertheless he conveyed
some very precise and startling
instructions.

Pray always be at home, my dear
colleague, between ten and two — day and
night — that is, if you can.' Every instruction
was put in this polite requests way.
Never be away from the palace more
than two hours at a time without leaving
word with the equerry in attendance where
you may be found. If you want a
carriage, order one from the stables. As
you ride, two saddle-horses will be at your
disposal. If you like to go to the Opera
or the Court Theatre, this red card, which
bears your name and the Prince's seal,
will admit you to the Equerries' box.
When summoned to attend upon his
Royal Highness, pray be so good as

always to carry a loaded revolver in your
pocket

I beg your pardon. What did you
say ?;' I asked, eyeing the peach face hard.

Aha ! The Prince might be attacked,
you see — and — and, aha ! you would be
glad to defend him,' answered the jolly
Doctor, without the slightest embarrassment.
He was speaking in elegant
copious German, without any of that
hemming, hawing, which characterises the
speech of Englishmen, and he now pulled
a comic newspaper from his pocket. ' Pray
do me the favour to look at this.'

It's the German Kladderadatch!

Yes, a most amusing and 
publication. Well, you and I
might be apart and yet wish to communicate
with each other. Letters by post or
hand may miscarry or be opened, but

newspapers are safe. So if you receive a
Kladderadatch by post pray look through
it for a letter with a small dot under it.
Then look for other dots. The further
dotted letters will make up brief messages,
and, my dear colleague, may I beg you
to deliver these messages instantly to the
Prince?'

If the Prince will give me a general
permission to do so,' I answered, gazing
again very intently at my dear colleague.
In fact, Herr Doctor, you must excuse
me for saying that if I am to obey this last
instruction, and the other order about
the revolver, they must be given me in
writing.'

I was prepared for that,' chirped Dr.
Grinzener, and he drew a letter from his
pocket. ' See here, this is addressed to you,
and contains all I have said to you so far.'

And may I show the paper to the
Prince ? '

If you could have the great goodness
not to do so I would prefer it ; but act as
you please. And now a word more of
private advice. Never speak to his Royal
Highness about marriage.'

'Why not?'

Because it is a painful subject to him :
he has had many disappointments. You
would not like to pass for a matchmaker,
aha ! But I hear the dinner bell. I have
the honour, my dear colleague. Your
obedient servant. My office is on the
ground floor, and if you want to see me,
send a newspaper rather than a note — a
newspaper with dots. My humble compliments.'


It was half-past four, so I buckled on
my sword and put on my busby. A

regimental band had begun playing in the
courtyard as I entered the reception-room,
which was already crowded with officers in
uniform. The Master of the Household,
a lean and courtly old general, received
the guests and gave me a benign greeting.
My appearance occasioned some whispering,
but nobody spoke to me, although
every officer whom I passed drew his
heels together and bowed from the waist.
I suppose scarcely anybody knew who I
was. Gradually the guests arranged themselves
in order of military rank along the
two sides of the room, leaving the spaces
in the middle clear. I took a place among
the captains, and overheard the two officers
next me say in an undertone :

So he's really going to be married this
time?'

Yes, a morganatic marriage, privately

in the chapel of the palace. He tried
hard to prevail on the King to give her
the title of princess, for she would not
consent without that ; but the King
refused ; and so this afternoon, as I hear,
she gave way.'

Hasn't she any title, then ?'

She's English — a Miss Meadowes.
Her father is an English lord. They
were saying at the Club that an English
officer has come over to give her away
in place of milord Springfield, who is
ill.'

Hush !' said the other, giving his friend
a nudge, upon which both looked round
suddenly at me, and remained silent.

At this moment an official rapped a
white wand on the floor ; some folding-doors
were thrown open, and Prince
Frederick appeared, walking to the left of

an Austrian archduke, and followed by a
train of aides-de-camp.

The Archduke wore a white tunic with
red trousers, and carried a cocked hat
with green plumes. Prince Frederick was
in light blue infantry uniform as a Colonel
of the Guards, and was covered with
diamond stars. Both Princes walked down
the room, bowing to right and left as they
went, and passed through the open doors
at the farther end of the room into a
magnificent banqueting-hall.

The blaze of wax candles in crystal
chandeliers, the mass of gold plate and
flowers on the table, the gorgeous liveries
of some thirty footmen, made up a striking
picture ; and the ment of the dinner was
evidently the work of a knowing French
cook. The band in the courtyard continued
to play throughout the dinner as

only the military bands of Germany can
play.

I have noticed that men who are accustomed
to very good dinners do not, as is
commonly believed, grow tired of rich
things and diet themselves. They do this
when their stomachs give way — not before.
Prince Frederick ate lobster and truffles as
if they were rarities to him, and he drank
champagne and claret freely. These wines
soon excited him, and he talked with the
utmost gaiety to all the guests who were
within earshot.

At our end of the table the wine produced
a similar exhilaration on my neighbours,
and they dropped into conversation
with me. I told them who I was, and
admitted having unwillingly overheard
some of their remarks.

Is this story about the Prince's marriage

really true ?' I asked. ' I met Miss
Meadowes last night, and not a hint of the
matter reached me.'

It's quite true,' answered one of the
officers. ' Miss Meadowes refused him
several times ; but to-day he was so pressing,
and she so stung by the King's refusal
to ennoble her, that she consented. Sir
George Malmsey is in a great flurry.'

After dinner the company adjourned to
a picture gallery, where coffee, cigars, and
cigarettes were served. Prince Frederick,
who appeared in the highest spirits, went,
coffee-cup and cigarette in hand, from
guest to guest, chattering and saying
pleasant things. From all I observed I
should not have judged him to be unpopular,
though it struck me that he sometimes
unbent a little more than a prince
should, if he wishes to preserve distances.

At last he noticed me, and approached
smiHng.

Well, you have seen Dr. Grinzener ?
What do you say of his English ? '

He spoke only German with me, sir.'

Oh ! that's his fun ; he talks English
to perfection. Did he caution you to
bring a rifle and a sword-bayonet with you
whenever you came to see me ?'

He did say something about a
revolver,' I replied, nearly in a whisper.

That's his craze, to think me in danger,
ever since a man shot at me. But you
needn't take the trouble. If I were
assassinated, and you shot a bullet at my
murderer, it would not bring me to life
again.'

To imagine that I hasted to the British
Legation next morning to inquire if
Prince Frederick's engagement with Isabel
Meadowes were a fact would be to make
a wrong guess. Miss Meadowes was a
stranger to me, and Prince Frederick's love
affairs were no business of mine. Foreseeing
that I should soon be a witness of
extraordinary things, I felt that the time
had come for strictly minding my own
concerns ; in fact, I was so apprehensive
of getting mixed up in intrigues that I
kept aloof from the Legation altogether.

I passed an idle week. Dr. Grinzener
gave me no work to do, and the Prince
did not send for me. Two State banquets
were held in the palace, but I was not
invited. During three days I lunched
and dined at the Equerries' mess, but I
noticed that the officers were on their guard
in speaking before me. There were some
very gentleman-like young fellows among
them, whose tastes mated perfectly with
mine ; and one in particular, a Count
Richard Sonnenthal, seemed rather disposed
to make friends with me. But,
acting apparently under orders, they all
maintained a polite reserve touching every
question connected with their country.
Not one of them ' took me up ' by advising
me to go and see this or that, or by
volunteering to go out with me. One

day Sonnenthal laughingly began a story
VOL. I 4

about some Court scandal in which there
was a dash of poetics, but I caught a
glance that was sped to him by one of his
brother officers, and which made him
abruptly turn the conversation.

Annoyed at this, but not desiring that
my presence should be a damper on the
company, I ceased to attend the mess, and
asked to be served in my own rooms.
This appeared to give considerable satisfaction
to the major-domo who superintended
the servants on my floor, and Joe
soon told me why.

This is the most wasteful place I've
ever been in, sir,' he exclaimed, answering
some remark of mine about the delicate
food that was always brought to me. ' Do
you know, sir, that nothing that's served at
the Prince's table or at any other table in
the palace ever comes up a second time ?

Meats, wines, sweets, candles, flowers, is
all the perquisites of servants. What's
left in the glasses goes to one servant, the
wine left in the bottles goes to another,
and a third gets the uncorked bottles that
remain on the sideboard. It's the same
with the other things. Some of the hotel-keepers
send regularly to the palace everyday
to buy the leaving's ; and when there
has been a banquet the tables d'hote, I'm
told, 'ave a fine time of it.'

I see they always send me up two
bottles of wine,' I said; * you can tell the
butler I never drink white wine ; and half
a bottle of red will do very well for me at
dinner. At luncheon I'd rather have
beer.'

I'll give the order, sir, but I doubt if
it'll reach the kitchen. That gentleman
with the steel chain will draw your two

LIBRARY ^
UNIVERSITY Of ILLINOIS

bottles all the same and keep the one you
don't want for himself. I have my rations
of wine and beer regular, and there they
stand whether I want 'em or not. Prince
Frederick must be a very rich man, sir, to
pay for all this squandering.'

The Prince s extravagance must have
been great indeed to shock Joe, who had
not been used to much economy in our
regiment — one of the fastest in the service.
I must here mention that Joe Trotman had
been my servant from the day I joined the
2 2d Dragoons. He had served with mein
Egypt, and I had bought his discharge
when I threw up my commission. He
was a capital valet, and a steady, sober
fellow, whose only defect perhaps was a
long tongue. All that he said was truth,
however, for he had not imagination
enough to invent ; and he would relate

things that astonished him in a simple,
straightforward way like a boy. He was
a Cambridgeshire man, born in a racing
stable at Newmarket, and had hoped to
become a jockey, but nature had decided
otherwise for him by giving him six feet
of stature, though leaving him with such
lankiness of limb that there seemed to be
material in him for two jockeys. He had
bright blue eyes, and a thickly freckled
complexion that matched oddly with his
hair and moustache, which were of a dull
black. The truth is that his hair was red,
but having been nicknamed ' Ginger ' in
the regiment, he had taken to using dye,
which gave his whole head a remarkable
appearance. He had some sense of
humour, and could not live anywhere
without taking a keen interest in his
surroundings. I do not think he put

prying questions, but his attitude as a
deeply attentive and surprised listener
encouraged other servants to talk before
him, and all that he heard was faithfully
retailed to his master.

Sabelburg was an artistic centre, and
had a pretty large colony of English and
American painters. One afternoon, being
out for a solitary walk, I fell in with a
young artist whom I had known in
London, Harold Crowe — a rather wild
and noisy youngster with a taste for
practical joking and showy clothes. If
Harold Crowe had been obliged to draw
for a living he would have distinguished
himself, for he had a genuine talent for
portrait painting, and especially — though
he disowned it — for caricature. Unfortunately
he had too much money to work
diligently at his easel, and therefore idled

and amused himself. He rented a large
studio, which twice a week was crowded
with brother artists and laughing girls,
most of them models, who chorused songs
and drank beer. In the evening Crowe
was generally to be found at the Opera or
at the Court Theatre, or at the Nobles"
Casino, where high play was carried on.
Occasionally, but not often, he patronised
the Worsted Keller (Sausage Cellar), an
underground tavern where his compeers of
the palette emptied countless chopped and
held intellectual assizes arraigning artists,
authors, and musicians all the world over
for summary trial and almost invariable
condemnation.

In my loneliness I fastened upon
Harold Crowe, and I went twice to the
Opera with him ; but not in the Equerries'
box. I noticed that he knew a great

many people and exchanged free and
easy nods with several officers of Prince
Frederick's household. He was a handsome
fellow with a fair complexion, a
short pointed Cavalier beard and waxed
moustache, superlatively dandified, conceited,
and an arrant poseztr, but always
amusing In conversation, and In his
principles a perfect gentleman. He was
held In some respect at Sabelburg because
he had fought two or three duels with
officers on slight provocation, and had got
the best of these encounters.

The Opera, which received a liberal
subvention from the King's civil list, was
admirably conducted. Its orchestra and
choruses were famed all over Europe. The
prima donna, whom we saw in the parts of
Else In Loheng^Hn and Margaret in
Gounod's Faust, was a splendid creature,

a perfect type of the fleshy, blue - eyed,
fair-haired German girl, naively natural in
her acting, and trained to a point in the
use of her ringing voice.

That's Mira Vogelsang, your Prince's
bonne amie' whispered Harold Crowe.
Look at her diamonds ! '

An old flame, I suppose ? '

No, she's in favour still — at least she
was yesterday. They say the Prince is
going to be married to Miss Meadowes,
but that wouldn't matter, for he has the
morals of a sweep. This girl is Viennese ;
her real name is Mina Vogel, and the
people here treat her coldly because they
say she gets the best parts owing to
Frederick's influence, and she has quite
wiped the eye of the local favourite, Olga
Klangmiiller. She's a jolly girl, though.
I'm painting her portrait, and at our last

sitting the Prince came in and chaffed me
about not having given her a double chin.
Look at her now bowing to him.'

Sure enough, Mira's fine singing had
carried away the public, who were applauding
loudly. The Prince clapped his hands,
and she, turning towards the Royal box.
made a deep curtsey.

There are times when she quite transports
you,' said Harold ; 'and if you goto
the Fassbrau restaurant after the performance
you find her tackling a huge
veal chop and a potato salad, every slice
of which she carries to her mouth with a
knife. By the by, I wish you would get
Prince Frederick's permission for me to go
and paint during a fortnight at his Castle
of Griinsee. It's a grand place.'

Why don't you ask him yourself ? '

I should have to catch him in the

humour. He's a queer fish. To-day he'll
clap you on the back, tomorrow he'll
frown if the colour of your necktie doesn't
happen to suit him. Last year he flung
poor Mira into the lake at Griinsee because
she put her arm round his neck after they
had been singing a duet by moonlight.
It is said, too, that he shot one of his
secretaries for cheering him, and since
then all the members of his household,
including old Grinzener, carry a defensive
arsenal in their coat-tails.'

Come, I say, isn't there a good
deal of loose gossip about the Prince ? ' I
asked, though, as it may be imagined, this
last remark gave me food for reflection.

I daresay there is some loose gossip,'
answered Harold. ' There can be no
doubt, however, that the Prince does lead
the devil of a life at Griinsee. He gets a

few friends and fine women round him, and
they Hve in the past, as he calls it. One
day they all dress up in Glottis Quatorze
style, and have a band of harps and fiddles
to play Lull's music to them while they
dance gavottes on the grass. Another day
they clatter about in the twelfth-century
armour, and eat roast peacock stuffed
with cloves, shredding the drumsticks with
their fingers, because forks would be an
anachronism. Another day Frederick im-personages
Lucullus, and he has a gang of
Montenegrins who dress up as gladiators
and do battle with a manger lion bought
from a strolling menagerie. You should
read what the Badstadt Gazette says about
your Prince. It's a scurrilous little paper
published in the neighbouring kingdom,
and, as I believe, subsidised by the Prime
Minister of this country, who is doing all

he can to get Prince Frederick put out of
the succession.'

Oh ! that's his game, is it ? '

Well, yes. The old King and Count
Hochort would do anything to make
Frederick renounce his claims, for they
are afraid that he would drive this old
coach of a kingdom to blue smash withall
brakes up. You see, Prince Wolfgang,
the King's son-in-law, who is a jolter-headed,
pudding-faced sort of man, will
give no trouble as a constitutional king.
That is the reason why I suspect a great
deal of underhand repelling was practised
to prevent Frederick from marrying a
princess of his own rank ; for, of course, if
he married and had a son, Wolfgang's
chance would be gone.'

And if he married Miss Meadowes ? '

That would be as though he were not

married at all, and the combination would
suit old Hochort and the King exquisitely.
It could only be a morganatic marriage.
Frederick's wife would have rank as
countess, but he would be stopped from
marrying anybody else. I am rather
sceptical, though, about that marriage,
precisely because it has been announced
in the Badstadt Gazette, and because I
observe that the people who talk most
about it are Hochort's friends. Something
must have happened ; but if Frederick
has decided to marry Miss Meadowes he
must have made up his mind to renounce
the crown for her sake ; and, from what
I know of him, I should consider this
highly improbable.'

I now imagined that I had got a good
insight into Prince Frederick's character
and into the machinations that were at

work round him. Harold Crowe continued
his confidences when we next met
at the Opera. Mira Vogelsang was playing
Margaret in Faust, and, after the garden
scene, in which she had acted and sung
with impassioned force, the coldness of the
audience, always manifested when she first
appeared on the stage, quite melted, and
she was enthusiastically called before the
curtain. Prince Frederick stood up in his
box, smiled to the girl, and seemed delighted
with her success. No bouquets
were thrown, because the rule of the Opera
and a very sensible rule too — forbade it.

The Prince is evidently very fond of
music,' I observed to Harold.

Yes, his emotion just now was all for
the singing, not for the woman. He cares
little for any woman, and poor Mira herself
has no delusions on that point.'

'Do you mean that she's not fond of
him ? '

Mira Hies anybody who is kind to her.
Her eyes swim if you give her a bunch
of violets. But as for adoring Prince
Frederick, you'll understand the difficulty
when you know him better.'

I must say he impressed me favourably.'


Harold gazed for a moment at the tips
of his lavender gloves before he replied.
There's a Turkish proverb which says,
He that seeks a friend without faints shall
live without friends y Your Prince frederick
uses mankind to make lemon-squash
with : he just squeezes out what there is
in his acquaintances and then flings them
aside. He has an infernally sharp tongue,
and cuts at your defects, whatever they
may be, without ruth. Add to this that

he is variable as April. He'll talk,
drink, and spend to excess ; then suddenly
clap his body under martial law, condemn
himself to cold water and hard reading,
and make everybody believe that he is
going to turn monk or republican. He
wants a woman to manage him, but she
would have to be an uncommonly clever
woman for such a task.'

Have you heard anything more about
the Meadowes marriage ? '

No ; but you ought to be better posted
on that subject than any of us, for Isabel
Meadowes and her mother are both living
under the same roof as you, on a visit
to Princess Dorothea, Frederick's sister.
So at least the Badstadt Gazette says.
I suppose you have not become acquainted
with Princess " Dot," as we

call her?'

VOL. I 5

No ; her wing of the palace is quite
separate from her brother's.'

'She's a character,' exclaimed Harold,
laughing. ' Her nickname will do equally
well in the English or French sense, for
she is a little doll of a thing and has a tremendous
do (dowry). But old Hochort
has been marring her matrimonial plots ashe
did Frederick's, for fear lest she should
make a great alliance and raise up friends
for her brother, to whom she is quite submissive.
The poor little soul was brought
up as an ''unattached religionist," so as to
be open to any handsome offer, and when
she had her first love affair with a Russian
Grand-duke, an Archimandrite was fetched
from Moscow to prepare her for the Orthodox
Greek Church. The Russian match
having been broken off, an Austrian Archduke
came forward, and the Princess Dot

was taken in hand by a learned Jesuit. I
don't know how things are going with her
now, but perhaps you will see her at the
English Church tomorrow, and listening
hard to the sermon, for she is extremely
pious.'

The next day was Sunday. I had then
been ten days at Sabelburg, and pricking
inclinations where in me to write and ask
Prince Frederick whether his Royal Highness
had any real need of my services. To
be fed and paid for doing nothing was derogatory
; and I began to be afraid that I
must be secretly the laughing-stock of the
household. Joe was evidently curious to
know what my business was, but he brought
me news from the servants' hall that Prince
Frederick was soon going to Griinsee, and
this prospect induced me to take patience.

Joe's principal crony, Mr. Bobbs, the

coachman, was either ignorant of the
rumours about Prince Frederick's marriage
or else deemed it prudent not to discuss
them at the loquacious table over which he
presided. At all events Joe spoke not a
word to me on the subject, and I made a
point of never encouraging his propensity
to gossip by asking questions. I did not
even ask him whether he was aware that
some English visitors were staying with
the Princess Dorothea, but I ascertained
from him that the palace had only one garden
; and from the moment of learning this
I sat down by an open window to watch if
Isabel Meadowes would come out. I determined
that if I could accost her alone in
the garden for only one moment, I would
make the venture, and try to get some
elucidation from her lips of the mysteries
in which I had been living.

She did come out on that Sunday
morning. We were in the first days of a
warm June, and she was dressed for walking
in some pretty summer material, with
hat and gloves on. The garden was all
bloom with roses. Isabel Meadowes
walked up to a bush of ' Marshal Niels',
plucked one for her corsage, and quickly
returned indoors. It was of no use for me
to go down into the garden, but I started
for church, making certain I should see
her there.

Her mother, Lady Springfield, was at
church, but Isabel was not. I remained
to the end of the service, and then slipped
to the door to see the whole congregation
a tolerably large one, for are not the
English like swallows abounding in all
lands ? Lady Springfield, who was a florid
lady, in brown watered silk, passed me with

a gracious bow, but stepped at once into a
Court carriage and was driven away. At
this moment red-faced Sir George Malmsey
caught me by the arm and said —

I have a note from Count Hochort
saying the King wishes to see you, so you
had better meet me at the palace tomorrow
at ten, as his Majesty gives audiences every
Monday.'

Shall I go in uniform — a Yeomanry
uniform ? '

Oh yes ; if you've any clothes with lace
wear 'em. I say, this is a pretty business
about Miss Meadowes, isn't it ? '

I have heard something about a marriages


Aye, don't talk to me about it,' and Sir
George raised both hands aloft, his habit
when anything disturbed him. 'When I
first heard of it you might have knocked

me down with a broomstick — I mean a
feather. I said to Lady Springfield, "This
is the sweetest infatuation, ma'am. My
honest and plain advice to you is to go to
the devil — I mean to your excellent husband
— and take his advice." Ah, you
should have heard the setting down I gave
her ; for I say, you know, it's quite too
positively monstrous that an old harridan
I mean a respectable woman like that —
should go hunting a Prince about with
threats of an action for breach of promise
and heaven knows what all.'

Is Prince Frederick reluctant, then ?'

'Prince Frederick be d . Hem, ah

well ! I mean bless the man ! I should
think he was as dogsick of petticoats by
this time as any human being can be. No ;
it's Lady Springfield who's at the bottom
of it all, and this very morning, an hour

before coming to church, I wrote to her
and said, " As the Queen's representative
here, I beg to tell your ladyship officially
and privately that I'll see you at — at — " I
forget what was the place I mentioned —
*' before I allow the marriage to take place
at the British Legation." By Jove ! the old
thing grinned at me like a cat during the
service as if nothing had happened ; and
I shouldn't wonder if the marriage came
off privately this very week in Prince
Frederick's palace ; but mind you, I wash
my hands of the matter, so does Lady
Malmsey, and I wish you would tell the
Prince that from me.'

If I see the Prince I'll not fail to give
your Excellency's message.'

Mind you do, and say that I shall take
him for a bigger fool than he looks — ahem,
you know how to word that pleasantly —

if he lets himself be intimidated by that
confounded old catamaran. By Jove ! it's
lucky I'm not given to strong language, for
all this is enough to make the Pope swear.'
I went home feeling very glad that I
had not spoken with Isabel Meadowes that
morning, for what blunder might I not
have committed in speaking with her ?
Had I not been fast heart-bound to
Connie Davenant, I must have attributed
to jealousy some of the sensations which
oppressed me. Certainly the uppermost
thought in my mind was one of mortification
and anger that a girl so beautiful
and gifted as Isabel Meadowes should be
forced by a scheming mother on to a man
who had no love for her, and who by all
accounts was an eccentric spendthrift and
rake. As for my own position, it was now
becoming plain. If this marriage came off

I should at once send in my resignation,
for I could not remain to be suspected
as an Englishman of having been in
some way a party to Lady Springfield's
manoeuvres.

When I entered my rooms I found a
copy of the Kladderadatch lying on the
table.

I took it up mechanically, without at first
remembering that Dr. Grinzener had chosen
this paper as a medium for occult communication
with me. As soon as I recollected
this I opened the paper and noticed
some very small dots under certain of the
letters. The message which they spelt
ran as follows : —

Come without fail to-day, four o'clock,
to Northern Railway Station.'

Why had Dr. Grlnzener sent me this
cryptographic message ? Had it any reference
to the Prince's marriage ? I concluded
that it must have. Not being at
all fixed in my own mind as to Dr.
Grinzener's character, I was nevertheless
convinced that he never acted without a
sufficient reason ; and the more singular
his action the more likely was it that his
reason must be cogent.

It need scarcely be added that I did
not at all like this mysterious summons to
attend at a railway station. I felt I was

being drawn into a conspiracy against my
will. Yet mere curiosity impelled me to
keep the appointment.

Joe had leave to go out for the afternoon,
so at luncheon I was waited upon
by one of the footmen in blue and orange
liveries. When the tray had been removed
I drew a chair near the window,
and, with an unread English newspaper
on my lap, mused as I smoked a cigar and
gazed into the garden.

Presently a little lady with a pink face
and fluffy flaxen curls, whom I guessed
must be the Princess Dorothea, tripped
down the steps of a terrace, preceded by
a big Danish dog with a silver collar,
and followed by Lady Springfield, Isabel
Meadowes, and a burly shambling old man
who wore the dress of a Lutheran clergyman.
The party was almost immediately

joined by Prince Frederick, who came
from the opposite side of the building.
His military frock was open, showing a
white waistcoat underneath, and he wore a
regimental cap of white nankeen.

No greetings were exchanged, so the
Prince had evidently met the ladies before
on this day. The party began to saunter
along the alleys, the Prince walking in
front with Lady Springfield, while the
Princess Dot, who held a Japanese paper
sunshade, Isabel, the clergyman, and the
dog strolled at a few paces behind.

I of course withdrew from the window,
but with some shame at what I was doing,
and which I only excused to myself on
the ground that I must in self-defence
observe all that was going on, I took up
a position behind the curtain, whence I
could see without being noticed. Isabel

was thoughtful ; the Princess Dot very
merry, and her frank laughter resounded
like a schoolgirl's. Once she brought her
group to a standstill while she executed on
the grass two or three steps of a jig,
apparently for the instruction of Isabel.
A few minutes later she proceeded to
illustrate some lunges in fencing, which
she did by closing her sunshade and making
prods at the old clergyman, to the
great excitement of the Danish hound,
who gambolled about barking in a deep
baying voice. At last the Princess Dot
twined her arm round Isabel's waist and
danced indoors with her, the clergyman
going with them. Prince Frederick and
Lady Springfield remained in the garden,
and I could see their conversation was
animated.

The Prince bit his nails and sometimes

Stood Still making gestures and talking
volubly. Lady Springfield shook her
head, drew her black lace mantle close to
her as though offended, and on one occasion
walked right away from the Prince.
He stood for a moment irresolute, then
overtook her, and there was some
more earnest dialogue. At length these
two parted also, and the Prince returned
towards his own apartments, his hands
deep in his trouser pockets, and his head
bent.

It was now three o'clock, and it occurred
to me that as a railway station was mixed
up in my affairs I had better put on a light
suit and a low-crowned hat, so as to look
as if I were going to travel. I hesitated
as to whether I ought to take my revolver;
but I hate these foolish weapons, which,
besides other inconveniences, make the

pocket of a well-fitting coat bulge out.
I even rejected the idea of a thick stick,
and chose a slender cane ; but I provided
myself well with money, and threw a dust-cloak
over my arm.

It was a lovely afternoon, and the streets
were thronged with people going out to
spend the evening in the Bier-gardens of
the suburbs. All the shops were closed
and the ca/<^s almost deserted. Countless
trophies (open flies), their cushions in
white cotton covers, were carrying family
parties tricked out in Sunday best — the
women all fanning themselves and the men
all smoking.

The railway station was at some distance
from the palace, and when I arrived
there punctually at four, there were crowds
hurrying in to catch suburban trains. Dr.
Grinzener was waiting for me on the steps

of the principal entrance, and looked the
embodiment of respectability with his
panama straw hat, well-starched shirt front,
gray silk gloves, and ivory-headed walking-stick.
He laughed from ear to ear as he
shook hands, but said not a word, and led
me to the first-class waiting-room, where,
greatly to my surprise, I found Isabel
Meadowes, whom I had seen an hour
before in the palace garden, now dressed
in travelling costume and holding a small
bag.

She coloured, but looked gravely into
my eyes as she said in a low voice —

Excuse me for this, Captain Meredith;
I have telegraphed to my father to join meat
Ostend, and I am going there by this
evening's express. But I shall get into
the train at Lilienthal so as to avoid observation.
Do you mind travelling as far

VOL. I 6

as Lilienthal with me ? it is about twenty
miles off. I wish very much to speak with
you.'

Dr. Grinzener had disappeared.

Isabel had already taken the tickets,
and as the train was to start in a few
minutes we passed on to the platform ; but
there was difficulty in finding a first-class
compartment with two vacant seats, and
when at last we succeeded, the two seats
which we obtained were apart and on the
same side of the carriage — nor did it occur
to the two polite Germans who occupied
the intervening places to move so that
Isabel and I might sit together. This
prevented me not only from holding conversation
with Isabel, but from observing
her during the crawling progress of the
train.

An hour was occupied in doing the

twenty miles, for the train stopped at every
station. When we lighted at LiHenthal
Isabel said she had never been to this
town before, and suggested that we should
seek an open-air restaurant. Taking
counsel of a flyman, we learned that the
favourite Lustrous lay on the other side of
LiHenthal, about a mile off; so we entered
his trap and were driven through a charming
old town with wooden-framed houses,
having three and four stories of attics in
their slanting roofs. Storks built their
nests between the chimneys, and stood in
rows on the mossy ridges. The bells of
two or three ancient churches were ringing
for evening service, and groups of placid
tradesfolk and clean-faced children lounged
in open doorways or sat upon chairs on
the pavements under old-fashioned signboards
hung upon wrought-iron brackets.

We were driven to a delightful park
upon a wooded hillside, which commanded
a prospect of valley with half a dozen
villages and a winding river. Here was a
restaurant in which a garrison band was
playing, and hundreds of people were
seated at white tables consuming beer,
coffee, milk, ham, cold sausage, and such
things. The easy mixture of classes, the
good behaviour of everybody, the general
contentment, are always very pleasant
things to notice in these German pleasure
resorts, which cannot be matched in
England, and which indeed raise the
question as to what rank the English,
who require so much nursing from their
legislators in the way of licensing laws,
hold in civilisation.

Isabel was too attractive not to be
stared at, but the Germans stare at everyone

artlessly and not rudely. It is to be
presumed that we passed for a newly-married
couple, and I dare say I came in
for much — to me — inaudible congratulation
on the possession of such a wife. We
made our way to an arbour and ordered
coffee, which was brought in a few minutes,
and excellent coffee it was. The band was
playing the ?search from the Tannhduser.

'This is a strange adventure,' began
Isabel, smiling to set us both at ease. ' Shall
I pour out for you .^ One lump or two ? '

'Two lumps, please.' I had by this
time studied every feature of Isabel's, and
every detail of her neat travelling costume.
Perhaps she caught my look of admiration,
for she changed colour a little before she
said —

I have taken a great liberty with you,
Captain Meredith, but owing to the position

which you now hold, I wished to
speak to you, and it was necessary for
your own sake that I should do so. You
have heard that I was to be married to
Prince Frederick?' I nodded. 'Well,'
she resumed, with heightened colour,
believe me when I say that I never suspected
until a few days ago what use was
being made of my name. I shall never
be Prince Frederick's wife. I would not
marry him if I could become a queen by
doing so — no, and not if he could give up
his rank for my sake, and were willing to
make the sacrifice.'

My share in such a conversation could
only be a silent one. Isabel, in a trembling
voice, proceeded —

I have been cruelly toyed with and
betrayed. When I came on a visit to
Sabelburg with my mother. Prince frederick

paid me great attention. Knowing
all I do now I do not condemn him for his
conduct towards me. Still, I think he
should have been more considerate. I
understood little about his position, nor
did I guess that there were insuperable
bars to his marriage with a girl in my condition.
Prince Frederick can be very
fascinating ; but enough of this. All was
at an end between us, so far as I was concerned,
from the moment I heard about a
morganatic marriage and saw that Prince
Frederick's feelings towards me were not
what I had foolishly believed.'

She had grown pale now, but her voice
was more steady.

The excuse for Prince Frederick is
that he is surrounded by wicked plotters
she continued. ' I know that the project
of a morganatic marriage with me was

much favoured by some persons at Court,
and I believe now that the Prince only
feigned to be in love with me, so that he
might seem to enter into the views of his
enemies and secure some time of peace for
himself by throwing them off their guard.
I am sure he is in love with somebody
else, but with whom is more than I can
guess, and I trust he may be able to keep
his secret ; for it is certain that misunderstandings
would be sown between him and
the young lady, whoever she may be.
Poor fellow, I pity him from the depth of
my heart. With such a fine nature as he
has in some things, he deserves better
than the fate allotted to him ! '

It is your opinion, then, that he has a
fine nature ? '

He has noble strivings after good,
with a faulty judgment and a weak character

; but I trust you will remain his
friend, Captain Meredith, and, God helping,
keep him from harm. And I wish
you would carry him this letter from mein
Vv^hich I say that I entirely forgive him.
Let him not trouble himself about what he
has said and done to me. All, except a
very compassionate memory of him and
sincere good wishes for his future, shall be
effaced from my mind.'

The girl's voice broke here, and tears
started to her eyes.

After a pause she resumed her narrative,
and explained how her mother had
been acting. This she did with the utmost
tact and dutifulness, notwithstanding which
she could not but make it manifest that
the worldly-minded Lady Springfield had
been rendered quite giddy by the prospect
of a Royal alliance. Count Hochort had

told her that if the Prince married Miss
Meadowes the marriage could only be morganatic
for the present, but that when the
Prince succeeded to the Crown he might
get a law passed to sanction the match and
raise his wife to the throne. On the other
hand, the Prime Minister hinted that if
the Prince would forthwith renounce all
rights to the succession for himself and his
heirs for ever, the King might be disposed
to confer a high title on Miss Meadowes,
so that she could marry on a footing of
equality and become the lawful right-hand
wife of the Prince. It thus seemed to
Lady Springfield that the marriage was a
thing to be sought after for either issue,
and she had sought after it to the extent
of informing Prince Frederick that after all
that had happened he was bound in
honour to wed Isabel.

But with all this I have had nothing
to do,' concluded Isabel with quiet dignity,
and it was to put an end to negotiations,
humiliating to me, and distressing to the
Prince, that I have run away.'

Had Lady Springfield any notice of
your intention ? ' I asked.

No ; but the Princess Dorothea was in
the secret and assisted me. She is a good
little thing, but terribly uncompromising
about Royal rank, and I believe she disliked
me thoroughly while she thought
that I was bent on marrying her brother.
When I made a confidante of her she at
once became my ally, invited my mother
and me to stay with her, and connived at
my escape to-day. If I had been staying
with my mother at an hotel I could not
have gone away without a most painful
scene. In fact, my mother, who is persuaded

that she was acting for my good,
has treated me Hke a child throughout the
whole affair — never telling me what passed
between her and the Prince. Most of
what I know was communicated to me by
the Princess Dorothea.'

'And what part has Dr. Grinzener
played ? Do you trust him ? '

I trust him thoroughly,' answered Isabel.
' He is the Prince's friend, and politically
Count Hochort's adversary. Were
Prince Frederick to reign, Hochort would
be dismissed from office, and Dr. 
would become chief minister ; and
now this brings me to the part of my story
which concerns yourself.'

She looked round and dropped her
voice, though the band was playing some
of Verdi's most brazen music, so that I had
to strain my ears to catch her words.

I have told you that the Prince is being
plotted against by a clique of powerful
and unscrupulous enemies, and I believe
that you were appointed to be his secretary
in the hope that you would encourage him
in the extravagance and profligacy which
have so much injured his reputation. Forgive
me for saying that the description
furnished of you by your friends in England
made you appear to be a man whose
influence would be rather for evil than
good. When I met you at the Legation
I thought that I read your character in
its true light, and I recollected that my
brother in the army had spoken of you in
the highest terms — so highly indeed that I
felt reassured, and determined to warn you.'

I remember meeting your brother,' I
said ; ' but I am afraid he is a little of an
enthusiast.'

No ; he told me that you were a brave,
upright gentleman, and esteemed by everyone
of your brother officers. That is quite
enough. But, Captain Meredith, I am
afraid that you may, unconsciously to yourself,
be used as an instrument for the
Prince's ruin. So be ever on your guard.
Every thoughtless act which the Prince
commits is exaggerated in society, and
printed with absolutely false details in bad
newspapers. The Prince struggled long
against these calumnies, but found it of no
avail, and has now grown reckless — too
reckless. Possibly the calumnies may
gather in force now that the Prince is
supposed to be under the influence of a
frivolous Englishman — for that is the reputation
which is being prepared for you.
A good deal of what the Prince does will
be laid to your charge, but worse than this

may happen ; for if the Prince should come
to sudden mischief — a thing which I dread
without divining whence it may come — you
might be made a scapegoat.'

This is getting serious, isn't it ? ' I remarked,
with an effort to treat the matter
Lightly.

Has it not struck you as curious that
you should have been employed because
you were an orphan and not engaged to be
married — which seemed to indicate that
you had nobody to care for you ? Trust a
girl's shrewdness for seeing farther into
these matters than experienced men. I
know that the Prince is encompassed with
dangers, and you yourself must remain in
peril unless you leave his service.'

After what I have heard it would be
impossible that I should desert him — unless
he dismisses me.'

'That's right: remain by him,' said
Isabel with a grateful look. ' You may bethe
means of his salvation. For myself, I
shall go away with a light heart, knowing
that the Prince has a true friend in you.'

It was growing late now, and we had to
go so that Isabel should catch her train at
Lilienthal. We drove back to the station,
and on the way I spoke only of her journey.
She made sure that her father would meet
her at Ostend, and that her mother
would promptly follow her. ' But there
can be no more question of the marriage,'
she added ; ' my flight will have extricated
Prince Frederick from his difficulty.'

On the platform at the station she asked
me once more not to forget her letter to
the Prince. ' See at least that it reaches
him,' she said, ' even if you do not deliver
it yourself.'

I will deliver it with my own hands,
Miss Meadowes.'

I think it will be better so. He will
know then that you are acquainted with all
the circumstances, and he will make no
attempt at concealment. It is a weakness
of his to make mysteries, and no wonder,
seeing what his position is. Perhaps he
will be vexed for a day or two, but perceiving
how I have trusted ydu, he will understand
you to be faithful, and will look to
you for further help.'

The train from Sabelburg entered the
station, and Isabel shrank back a little behind
me to watch if any person of her
acquaintance alighted. But no familiar face
appeared ; and I handed her into a could,
arranging with a good-natured guard that
he should take her under his protection

and see that nobody intruded on her.
VOL. I 7

Good-bye,' she said, holding out her
pretty hand through the window ; ' goodbye,
and thank you so much.'

'Thank yotc,' I replied; 'and will you
grant me a favour — may I write to you ? '

Yes, do, and direct your letters under
cover to my father. I will tell him to give
them me.'

The train started, and Isabel waved me
another good-bye as I raised my hat.

'That's a brood sfirl,' I reflected; and
somehow it gave me pleasure that she was
not going to be Prince Frederick's wife.

I WAS spared the trouble of requesting an
audience from Prince Frederick the next
morning, for he sent me through an
equerry an Invitation to lunch with him atone
o'clock. It will be remembered that
before this I had to go through the ceremony
of presentation to the King.

King Franz gave private audiences
twice a week, In the morning. In one of
the largest rooms of the palace were wont
to assemble all sorts and conditions of men
and women, who had received, or were
anxious to receive, favours from the Crown.

They came to thank or to importune his
Majesty. Officers on promotion, inventors,
authors, widows, peasants, all presented
their letters of audience to a chamberlain
and sat down on velvet settees or roamed
about, peering at pictures, until the aide-de-camp
at the door of the King's study
called out their names. Sometimes one
saw rueful sprigs of nobility waiting to get
a good wigging from the Royal lips, for his
Majesty was very particular about the
morals of his nobles, and he had been
known to box the ears of titled youngsters
who had misbehaved so as to cause public
scandal.

These Royal audiences were a precious
corrective to the system of parliamentary
government which nominally existed at
Kronheim. There are British subjects
who have no more chance of ever getting

a private talk with the Queen than they
have of ascending to the summit of the
Himalayas ; but in King Franz's dominions
everybody who had anything to
say worth his Majesty's attention could
obtain a private hearing by asking for it.
Except when people came in deputations,
every person was received singly, and laid
his business before the King alone — no
minister or secretary being present. The
King would have stared at the doctrine that
a constitutional sovereign should do nothing
but sanction laws voted by a parliament.
Parliaments pass, but kings endure ; and
there was probably not a man in the
country but had more faith in the sagacity
and rectitude of old King Franz than in
the word of his ministers.

Sir George Malmsey joined me at ten
o'clock in uniform, with the red riband of

a K.C.B. round his neck; and before he
had finished shaking hands with persons
of his acquaintance in the room our turn
of audience came.

We were ushered into a large well-lighted
study, with a carpet so thick that
the heaviest tread of a cavalry boot would
have been noiseless upon it. An elderly
gentleman in military undress, and without
a single medal or decoration, came
forward, shook hands with Sir George
Malmsey, and returned my bow. He
had white hair, moustache and whiskers, a
care-worn face, and a keen but not unkind
eye.

Well, Sir George, your fair countrywoman,
Miss Meadowes, has left us,' he
said in English, for Sir George could not
speak a sentence of German and King
Franz disliked French.

I was not aware of it, Sire,' answered
the British Minister, astonished.

Yes, she left yesterday evening to join
her father Then turning to me the King
said in German, * You are wearing the
Egyptian medal, Captain ? '

'Yes, Sire.'

'But you have left the army? It's a
pity — you must have been a fine dragoon.'

That was all. A nod to me, another
handshake to Sir George, and we both
retired — the King turning his back so that
he might not see our backs as we went
out — such being the custom.

I say, that's something new about Miss
Meadowes,' remarked Sir George as we
went downstairs to his carriage. ' Had
you heard of the matter ? '

Yes, I saw Miss Meadowes off.'

The devil you did ! ' Then with a

pathetic outburst — ' I'm hanged if I'm not
always the last man to get a bit of news.
I sometimes say to my young fellows at
the Legation, " It's doomed lucky you've
not got to act as retrieve, for, egad ! you'd
bring me my partridges Lor' knows when."
It's too bad, 'pon my soul, that things
should be going on without my knowledge.
Well, tell me about it — was there much
squalling ? Old Lady Springfield must
have been in fits. I suppose Prince
Frederick had bundled them both out —
eh, what ? '

Sir George under his cocked hat shaped
like a half moon was a figure for a cartoon
as he listened to as much of Isabel
Meadowes's story as I thought it right to
tell him. The fact that Isabel had one
of her own free-will, and that she repudiated
all design of marrying Prince

Frederick, was what I chiefly had to impress
; and I did this without mentioning
the clandestine circumstances of her
departure.

D d if I believe a word of it,'

ejaculated his Excellency, * and Lady
Malmsey will say the same. The Prince
is a catch, and those two women set their
heads together to trap him ; but he's a fox,
and he's got away. Thank goodness for
it, as I'm saved a deal of bother. But
egad ! I must write to old Springfield.
This is certain to bring on his gout, and
he'll be swearing at me through the telegraph
wires.'

I was never to learn whether Lady
Springfield had gone into fits on discovering
how Isabel had caused her schemes to
miscarry. As 3 pebble drops into a pool,
her ladyship disappeared from Sabelburg ;

but SO little was known, even at Court,
about the true facts of the case, that people
continued to gossip for some days about
the coming marriage. The Badstadt
Gazette, always well informed, soon announced
that the match had been broken
off, but made political capital out of the
affair by hinting that the Prince had scared
away his English sweetheart by his madness.
It was by the reiteration of such
charges as this, tending to show that
Prince Frederick was a man whom no sane
woman could tolerate, that accumulations
were added to the load of unpopularity
under which his foes hoped to crush him.

Joe informed me just before luncheon-time
that Prince Frederick was going to
Griinsee on the morrow. Mr. Bobbs, the
coachman, had received his marching
orders, and was to leave town that night

with some of the carriages and horses.
But he don't take many, sir, for it seems
the Prince has quite a separate establishment
out there ; and most of the servants
and horses here, they just remain in town
for months and eat their 'eats off. I suppose
we are going too, sir ? '

I have not heard.'

I think we must be going, sir, for Mr.
Bobbs said he was to take horses down
for you.'

The movements of Royal princes never
cause much disturbance in domestic arrangements,
for everything is smoothly
settled for them by the officers of their
households. I was quite prepared to hear
of Prince Frederick's removal to summer
quarters, as in June few of the great
families remained in town ; and, in fact,
the Prince had rather overstayed his usual

date for departure. At the same time
Joe's tidings were welcome, for it became
obvious that the Prince must to-day put an
end to my suspense regarding my duties
in his service.

Having to denver Isabel's letter, I
trusted I might find the Prince alone, but
he was in company with that young Count
Richard Sonnenthal whom I have already
mentioned as having shown friendly dispositions
towards me at the Equerries'
mess. The three of us lunched together
in a small room overlooking the garden ;
and I perceived that the Prince had invited
Sonnenthal on purpose that he and I might
become good comrades. There was no
difficulty about that ; but a few minutes
were enough to show that Sonnenthal was
nothing more to the Prince than a rousing
boon companion. His talk was all about

horses' hocks, ballet dancers' pirouettes,
and coups at dcartd. He drank gaily at
table, so did the Prince ; but he could
stand liquor and the Prince could not.
After two long glasses of beer and a
bottle of champagne — for they mix these
drinks in Germany without compunction —
Sonnenthal was as fresh as paint ; but the
Prince was all flushed and much too talkative,
though he kept his head.

I am going to take you to Griinsee
tomorrow,' he said In German. ' You'll
find the place dull, for we lead humdrum
lives. My sister keeps house for me, and
our only amusements are music and
fishing.'

'Your Royal Highness forgets the
preaching,' laughed Sonnenthal.

Oh yes, you will get lots of that,' said
the Prince. ' My sister is very impatient

to know you, and I hope you are well
versed in theology, for she will put you
through your facings. She collects the
clergy of all the surrounding villages, and
one after another they give us sermons
on wet afternoons. Sonnenthal here has to
sit and take notes. Do you paint or sketch ? '

Only a little, sir.'

That would be a resource for you, as
we have good scenery'. I saw you at the
Opera the other day with Harold Crowe —
an amusing fellow and a clever artist. I
wish you could prevail upon him to come
with us and paint me portraits of some of
our peasants and their women-folk — amazing
types, some of them.'

Crowe would like it above all things,
sir,' r said, and mentioned something of
what my friend had told me on this
subject.

By all means invite him, then. Whoever
heard of my refusing an artist permission
to come to Griinsee ? I don't
take them to my place on the top of the
Nebelberg, for they can't stand being
dressed in bearskins and hearing the
wolves howl at night, but everybody is
welcome to Griinsee.'

Harold Crowe will esteem it a great
favour.'

Write him a letter, then, in my name,
and tell him our special train starts at two
to-morrow

After coffee the Prince and Sonnenthal
sat down to play dcaide in a smoking-room
ornamented with trophies of pipes from all
countries and times. Richly - jewelled
chibouks, well-coloured meerschaums, and
common clays smoked black as ebony,
were all there. As I was examining the

collection the Prince said between two
deals — ' If you ever come across a curious
pipe, better coloured than any of those,
just buy it for me.'

After an hour's play the Prince had
lost a couple of thousand marks (loo),
which he seemed to consider a mere trifle.
He paid the money in banknotes which
he drew from his pocket. Sonnenthal
then took his leave, and the Prince led
me into his study. Here I at once handed
him Isabel's letter.

I am much obliged to you for having
escorted Miss Meadowes yesterday,' he
began before breaking the envelope. ' Dr.
Grinzener has told me all about it, and I
am glad that you should have been initiated
into the details of this disagreeable
business.'

So saying he proceeded to read the

letter, standing. I could see that it produced
an impression upon him. A forced
smile came to his lips. He sat down and
folded the letter, but reopened it and read
parts of it again. This he did more than
once, and he talked absently, making remarks
without catching my answers.

At last he coughed and collected himself.
His features where still red, and his
eyes glistened. Apparently he was trying
to throw off a weight of anxiety and
succeeded, for his manner became cheerful
and almost flighty.

'Well, you will get ready to start tomorrow,
please. I don't think that I have
anything more to say than this at present,
except that you will be my only secretary
at Griinsee. Dr. Grinzener remains in
town, and perhaps he is going to leave my

service.'

VOL. I 8

It would be convenient if he could
give me some initiation into my duties,'
I submitted.

There is hardly time for that, nor is it
necessary. You will only have to answer
letters according to my directions. Dr.
Grinzener, I believe, is going to have the
offer of a high government appointment,
and he can't refuse it without forfeiting
his claims to promotion in the civil service
which cannot well be done in this
country. Perhaps I ought to tell you
that Count Hochort is removing him from
my service purposely, and I must add that
the Prime Minister and I are not the best
of friends. Doubtless you have heard
this ? '

I could only bow.

I intended you should hear it,' proceeded
the Prince. ' I left you for so

many days alone that you might pick up
all the flying rumours about me. No
doubt you have heard some surprising
things ; but you know about the man who
said he should like to hear the dog's
version of a story. When we are alone
at Griinsee you shall hear the dog's
version.'

Prince Frederick's summer palace of
Grtinsee was one of the most enchanting
places in Europe. It stood on an island
about half a mile in breadth and two miles
in circuit, close to one shore of a beautiful
lake, famed in countless poems for its clear
green waters. The farther shore, five miles
distant, was shaded by rocky hills with
sloping forests of pine. Each hill had its
ruined castle. Beyond the hills and faraway
rose an amphitheatre of mountains
crowned all the year with snow.

Between the island itself and its nearer

shore the water was five furlongs in
breadth, and flowed gently like an emerald
river. It was fed by springs which had
their source north of the island, and were
strong enough to form a current. This
nearer shore was an undulating valley of
pasture land, for the hills that embraced
the lake on three sides, like gigantic arms,
joined hands at a point one hour's flight
for a swallow from the water's edofe.

The island itself contained a park of
noble trees and lawns for deer ; a palace
in the Italian Renaissance style with tiers
of terraces ; and gardens of several kinds
designed with genius and kept with unremitting
care. Flowers, fountains, orchards,
groves, an aviary, hot-houses, pretty pavilions
and groups of statuary, charmed the
eye wherever it looked.

All this could be taken in at a glance

from the balconied windows of the rooms
which I occupied, but the prospect was
one at which no man could ever tire of
gazing. It changed its aspects with the
time of day and the weather, but its
beauty never altered. The saffron sunlight
of morning, the orange tints of afternoon,
the silver of the moonbeams or the
gray mists of rain, brought one point or
other of the scenery into prominence, but
only to impress more deeply the grand
effect of the whole. The eye found repose,
the mind thought, and the soul peace in
the contemplation. The view was now
glorious in its brilliant colouring, now
sombre in its dark shades, but always
superb.

The room in which I breakfasted at
Grlinsee faced the nearer shore, where
there was a landing-stage with dazzling

white marble steps. The Prince's fairy
steam-launch with red and white pennon
and a swan at the prow was moored here,
and across the green water came a gig with
eight oarsmen in Greek sailor dress plashing
their oars in a swift steady stroke.
Several villas were dotted over the slopes
of the valley on this side, and one of them,
mantled with clematis and roses, belonged,
as I was soon to learn, to Mira Vogelsang.
Shortly after breakfast the Prince sent
for me. I found him no longer in uniform,
but in a sort of Tyrolese Jager costume,
which remained his habitual dress. His
manner was subdued, and he must have
risen early to write, for a great many sheets
of foolscap covered with his handwriting
were scattered over his desk. I subsequently
learned that he was writing a book,
partly autobiographical, which dealt very

freely with German history and contemporary
politics. The Prince pointed to a
small pile of letters on a side-table and
said —

You will have to answer a collection
like that every day according to my pencilled
instructions on the envelopes. If
you find difficulties with the German, the
clerk in the secretary's office, who has been
trained by Grinzener, will assist you. He
can draft the letters and you need only
sign them. For the rest, amuse yourself
as you please. We have plenty of boats
if you want to sail or row : there are stables
on the two shores of the lake, so that if
you wish to make excursions you have
only to telephone for horses or trap to be
waiting for you when you land. As for
tennis, you will find a frustrate court on
the lawn under your windows. You and

Crowe are too English not to have brought
rackets with you.'

Harold Crowe's rooms were next to
mine, and many a good game of tennis we
had on the capital piece of ground which
had been laid out for the purpose. Son-mental
sometimes joined us, but our recreations
were not much to his taste ; he
preferred billiards when cards were not
available, and after a day or two sought
relief from what he called the fzLvchtbare
Traurigkeit of country life, by going to
flirt among the villas and cottages of the
vale. An innkeeper's pretty daughter, with
two long plaited tails of hair, engaged
a great deal of his time ; and Harold
Crowe, led astray by him, took an artistic
fancy for a blue - eyed goose - girl with a
patched petticoat, whom he sketched day
after day until he turned her head. Events

SO shaped themselves, therefore, that I was
left much alone. There was no common
gathering at breakfast or luncheon ; and
until the Princess Dorothea arrived with
her ladies — two weeks after us — the Prince
did not always appear at dinner.

He led no life of seclusion, for I often
met him strolling about the grounds, and
at such times he was always ready for a
chat. He was very fond of feeding the
birds in his aviary, and would stand for an
hour throwing bread crumbs to peacocks,
flamingoes, and golden pheasants, who
kept on dry land, or to pelicans, swans,
and ducks, who swam on a large artificial
pond set with islands of rockery. Another
of his diversions was to be rowed over the
lake late in the evening. His gig would
be preceded at some distance by the steam-launch,
which carried musicians and sometimes

a female singer on board. The
musicians were Montenegrins, and very
wild were the strains of their string instruments.
The singer was generally Mira
Vogelsang ; and sometimes the crew of the
Prince's boat — these men were Greeks —
would catch up the song started from the
launch. When the air was still, the songs
would float from a long way over the
water, and would reach me as I leaned
over my balcony, often strangely moved.

The Prince always went alone on these
excursions, but while making no mystery
about them, never alluded to them. They
gave him a pleasure which, no doubt,
might have been spoilt by unappreciative
observations or mockery.

One thing which I speedily noticed was
that whenever the Prince went out of doors
he was followed by a body-servant dressed

in Jager costume like himself, but armed
with a short dirk which hung at his belt,
and with an axe-headed mountaineer's staff.
This man's name was Tristan : he was the
Prince's foster-brother, and somewhat like
him in face and figure. Tristan was in
command of the keepers, sailors, and watchmen,
and under his directions the island
was well guarded. There was not a soldier
in uniform about the place, and not an
officer except Sonnenthal ; but some sailors
always hung about the landing-stage of
the mainland and on that of the isle ; and
after dark some of those Montenegrins who
scraped the fiddle so well were stationed
about the park as sentries. These Tristan
inspected at unforeseen hours, always going
his night rounds with an enormous mastiff
called Hacko. Provisions and letters were
brought to the island by the Prince's

sailors in a launch. Nobody was allowed
to land on the island without permission
being asked for and received through the
telephone.

There was not only a telephone in the
palace, but a telegraph station and electric
lighting. The house was fitted with every
modern appliance for comfort, and furnished
in modern style with the utmost
luxury and with superlative good taste.
It was not, like the palace in Sabelburg,
Crown property, but Prince Frederick's
own home, bought with his money, and
furnished throughout under his orders.
He was one day talking to me about his
various residences, and remarked that he
took no pleasure in his town palace.

I am not master there. The greatest
extravagance prevails, but I am powerless
to check it, for every servant has vested

interests consecrated by usage from time
immemorial. If I try to alter anything, I
am brought into conflict with high stewards
and great chamberlains. Here at Griinsee
I spend five times less than in town, but
then I can control my own accounts, and I
employ mostly foreign servants.'

Does your Royal Highness find them
better than natives?' I inquired innocently.

It's not that ; but the servants here
are my very own,' said the Prince. ' I have
brought them to this country, and can send
them back. They have nothing to expect
from anybody except me.'

Sallies of this kind, which were
frequent in the Prince's conversation,
coincided little with the anecdotes which
Harold Crowe had told me about the
wild doings at Griinsee. I recalled these
one day as Harold and I were sitting

under a tree after an hour at tennis, and he
admitted that it looked as if somebody had
been ' laying on the colouring thick.'

There's truth in the stories about the
masquerading though. At the Swan Inn
over the water you can see a picture taken
from some illustrated paper, which represents
the Roman /e^e; and Lisbeth Riedl
she's Sonnenthal's flame — told me that
she and her father, old Andreas, had to
dress up two years ago in classic style and
keep a popina, in which they sold atrocious
swipes and wine in earthenware jars
with oil at the top. The fun lasted
two days, and part of it consisted in
doing without umbrellas when the rain
came.'

'We have these y^^^i" costumdes'in England.
I don't see they are extravagant.'

Nor do I, and I shouldn't mind helping

to organise a novelty. Sonnenthal was
present at one, and he says they were
something more than masquerades, for all
the guests were expected to learn parts
and to enter into the spirit of the thing.
People who said anything out of date, used
spectacles, watches, pencils, or such things
of our time, or who forgot themselves by
blowing their noses in the nineteenth-century
fashion, had to pay forfeits. It
requires pretty severe study, mind you, to
act up to character in parts like that.'

And how about the gladiators and the
manger lion ? '

'The lion exists,' observed Harold.
He's somewhere in the park now, and
they often let him loose at night.'

To ^ frighten the chickens into the
poultry-yard, I suppose.'

Probably. Lisbeth is my informant,

and she says she has often shivered under
her bedclothes from hearing the beast's
roar, and wondering whether he wouldn't
take it into his head to cross the water.
I'll tell you what,' broke off Harold, rising
and making a ball dance on his racket,
Prince Frederick is our host, so he's a
brick, but don't let us conclude that we've
got his measure because we are leading a
pot-mt-fe2i sort of life while he shuts himself
up to write his memoirs.'

How do you know he is writing his
memoirs ? '

He makes no secret of it. He intends,

they say, to fire a big boom one of these

days in a way to convince the world that

his head isn't empty. I only hope for his

sake that he won't overshot his gun and

make it burst.' Saying this, Harold cut a

ball over the net and added : ' A man
VOL. I 9

doesn't get the reputation of Mephistopheles
unless he plays the deuce sometimes.
Tm anxious to see what will be done with
us — or at least with you — when the scribbling
fit is over.'

I was curious too ; but at that moment
I was thinking that I would go and try to
get a look at the lion before dinner. I
had noticed a circular building at an extremity
of the island, and thither I bent my
steps, whilst Harold went up to his room.
An unmistakable smell of menagerie revealed
that this must be the den, and as I
was going the round of the building to find
the entrance I came upon Tristan, alone
and pensive, with his back to a door, and
his dog crouching at his feet.

Want to see the lion, sir ? ' he asked,
saluting gravely.

I said Yes, and Tristan unlocked a door,

admitting me at one step into a circus. It
differed from ordinary circuses in this, that
the auditorium consisted of only one circle
of seats, and the arena was covered by
an immense iron cage. The roof of the
building was of glass, so that light poured
in.

No lion in captivity ever had a finer
prison. There was space in plenty for
rambling, an arrangement of tree branches
for climbing, a cave for shade and retreat,
and a thick flooring of sand. In the
calm enjoyment of these luxuries a magnificent
lion and lioness reclined side by
side.

Are they only kept for show ? ' I
asked.

His Highness cannot bear to see wild
animals caged,' answered Tristan. ' He
saw this lion in a menagerie jumping

through flaming paper hoops, and he was
so moved to pity that he bought him. It
was impossible, however, to turn the animal
into the streets or send him back to his
home in Africa, so this place was built for
him. The lioness was bought afterwards
to keep him company. Would you like to
see the lion loose, sir ? '

I don't mind.'

Tristan opened a gate in the cage,
stepped in, and with a wave of his staff
sent the lioness growling into the cave.
He then came out, held the gate wide
open, and called to the lion, who at an easy
trot ran by him and past me through the
passage and into the open air. Here he
made for a plot of grass, turned round and
stared.

He was such an imposing creature in
his well-fed sleekness that one could not

but eye him respectfully. But when I saw
this king of beasts shake himself like a
poodle, scratch his left ear with his right
leg, and finally roll himself on the grass
with his four paws up, I could not help
laughing. The situation was rendered
additionally ludicrous by the conduct of
Hacko, Tristan's dog, who sheltered himself
trembling behind me, and poked his
nose sniffing between my knees.

Tristan, without a smile, made another
call to the lion, who uprose and advanced
till he stood between us, his mane touchingly
hand. Hacko, with his tail between
his legs, had retired behind a tree, shivering.


Then Tristan, who was a strong serious
fellow with dreamy eyes, looked at me and
said : 'It's not every man who would have
shown your nerve, sir. If the Prince be

ever in danger, I hope we may stand by
his side together.'

The component was agreeable ; yet it
was not without relief that I saw King
Lion restored to the society of his
grumbling wife.

You have won golden opinions from Tristan,'
said the Prince to me next morning.
His 'scribbling fit' had abated, and looking
out of the window at the sunt lake,
which sparkled like a vast sheet of crystal,
reflecting the blue of the sky, he remarked
that it was fine weather for an outing. ' Do
you feel inclined for a ride ? If so, be ready
in half an hour. Come dressed as you
are.'

I had promised Harold Crowe that, if
free, I would go out with him for a sail on
the lake, so having put on a pair of boots

with spurs I went to tell him of the change
in my arrangements.

Well, perhaps you can join us later,' he
suggested. ' Sonnenthal and I are going
to lunch at the " Swan," for I have some
painting to do there.'

Palette and mahlstick in hand, he was
rubbing some colour into the portrait of his
pretty goose-girl. 'That's Frida Swiss,'
he said, ' but I can't get her cheeks right.
I want the nectarine tints, and I'm making
English pudding apples.'

You are doing a capital picture,
though.'

Do you really think so ? ' he asked,
pleased. ' You see I must work in earnest,
for I am anxious to paint a good set of peasant
types for the Prince before I go. I've
not come here to play the cheery idler.'

I thought as Harold said this that his

opinion of the Prince had improved since
we came to Griinsee, and that he wished
to stand well with him.

Joe brought me my riding-whip and a
message requesting me to meet his Highness
at the landing-stage. I went there
and found the launch under steam. After
I had waited a few minutes the Prince
came out unattended, and we started without
delay.

The launch had a sumptuous cabin and
a deck with an awning. Here we sat on
easy-chairs, and were carried along at a
swift smooth rate, without much puffing
from the engine or noise from the screw.
The little ship, English made, with a
powerful Clyde engine, cut the water
straight as a dart, and the four Greeks onboard
were able seamen who knew their
business.

We were making for the farthermost
point north of the Griinsee, a village called
Steindorf, where the horses were to await
us. The nearer shore being exposed to
the sun, our course lay diagonally across
the lake, so that we might get under the
shadow of the tree-robed hills which skirted
the opposite side. As we passed from the
limpid light green water of the sunny expanse,
in which the bows of the launch
ploughed two long trails of glassy bubbles
without foam, we seemed to glide into dark
water of infinite depth, for the hills cast a
shade of several hundred yards' breadth.
The scenery, which had been light and
lovely before, became grand from this
point ; and the engine slackened speed to
enable us to get a good view of an island
half a mile from the outer shore, on which
stood the stately ruin of a temple.

I had spied this island through the telescope
from the palace, but knew nothing
about the building on it. As we came
abreast of the islet the Greek sailors removed
their red bonnets and signed themselves.
Prince Frederick, who was smoking,
turned his head towards me to watch the
effect which the building produced. I now
observed that the ruin was that of a new
temple which had never been completed.

You have heard of Hugo Schwarzfeld,
the architect,' he said. ' The poor man has
gone mad, and this is his unfinished work ;
but I am tired of telling the story to my
guests, so I have had it printed. Read
this.'

He handed me a printed card in a
mahogany frame with a handle like that
of a bill of fare in a London club, and I
read —

The Temple on Swan Island

This temple was designed by Hugo Schwarzfeld.
It was to be dedicated to Human Greatness — not to
the greatness won on battlefields or by statesmanship,
or by waterworks of genius; for this greatness
meets with sufficient honour and reward. But
to the greatness of noble deeds done in obscure
places. To the strength of heart which keeps a
man honest under temptation, just under provocation,
generous in poverty, unselfish in suffering. To
the daring and self-sacrificing spirit, to the patience,
untiring kindness, and magnanimity which have ennobled
individuals of the human race and established
the claim of man to be above the beast.

To this greatness, which is the attribute of no religion,
people, or class — which exists everywhere and
is seldom found, or when found, recognised — to this
greatness which can bear to be ignored and despised,
but which now and then reveals itself in soul-stirring
deeds that cannot be hidden, and which console man
for the infinite baseness of some among his fellow-creatures
— to this greatness it was intended to raise a
memorial.

The architect caught the idea of the founder, enlarged
it, became impassioned by it, and lost his

reason in the effort to give his thoughts expression in
art. His work is unfinished.

People — ignorant people — now say that the artist's
genius, released from his body, haunts the island under
the form of a brilliant light, which hovers over the
ruins at night.

The light has been seen, if one may trust the word
of people who say so ; and if these again can trust
the evidence of their own senses. But men of science
doubt even that much.

Men of science have given explanations of the
light, but none of them agree.

Hugo Schwarzfeld is a great man,' observed
the Prince, without waiting for any
remark of mine. ' Out of my little Ggg he
hatched an eagle ; but I was not prepared
for the grandeur of his schemes, and, truth
to say, it would have required a larger
fortune than I possess to carry them out.
The story goes that it was I who drove
Schwarzfeld out of his mind ; the fact is,
I had to tell him frankly that I could not

afford the twenty million marks or so
which he talked of spending. Then he
made an attempt to kill me.'

Literally, sir ? '

Oh yes, and I had a narrow escape. I
came down one morning to look at the
works, and found Schwarzfeld had collected
a quantity of blasting powder, vowing that
his temple, as you see it now, was unworthy
of its destination, and that he would make
a clean sweep of it. I saw he was delirious,
and gently remonstrated with him, but
he flew into a fearful passion, accusing me
of being a renegade to my own idea and
of grudging money. When he had worked
himself up into a frenzy he swore that he
and I should perish together in the ruins
of our misbegotten monument ; and making
a rush at one of the powder barrels, cracked
the head with a hatchet and dropped a

lighted fuse into the hole. I had just time
to skip behind one of those pillars when
the slab of marble on which I had been
standing was blown into a thousand fragments.
Schwarzfeld was picked up for
dead twenty yards off. Pleasant, wasn't it?'

I suppose he was put under restraint
after that ? '

Yes; and we hushed up the affair as far
as possible. But the most fantastic fables
remain current about my share in the raising
of this temple. Some say that I aimed
at founding a new religion, and that poor
Schwarzfeld and I celebrated unholy rites
together. Others are convinced, on the
strength of some drawings found among
Schwarzfeld's cartoons, that we were building
a shrine of erotic love, which was to be
stocked with the portraits and statues of
good-looking jades.' Here the Prince

laughed, and said that he cared not a
ducat for most pretty faces, as some
accounted prettiness. * So far as my ideas
of a gallery went, it would have been filled
with portraits of good people, but doubtless
some of them would have been uncouth
enough, and I question if there would have
been many women among them, at least
young and pretty women.'

Could my strange master be a misogynist
? was the question that occurred tome
; and Prince Frederick, as though answering
my thoughts, proceeded —

It would be a large gallery that could
contain the portraits of all the good women
whom you might gather out of any one
small town, ay, or from any village, though
countrywomen are harder than those in
towns. Women are generally good : the
bad ones are the exception, and these have

been degraded by men. Man has all the
defects of women, such as they are, and
those of his own sex besides. His selfishness
makes a brute of him as compared
with the ordinary woman, even when he is
at his best as a man. As for the great
deeds which women will accomplish for
love, they are not to be numbered or
measured, and, thank God, there are some
loving unselfish men too. But in the
dedication of our temple I was thinking
rather of loveless ones, and of deeds done
without calculation of reward. That which
is done for love is repaid. Ingratitude
does not defraud it ; for love suffices to
itself. But the deed which sets a man's
own misunderstanding wife against him,
which loses the woman her lover — the
deed which gets no support at the time

of its accomplishment — which causes only
VOL. I 10

pain and doubt to the doer, but which is
nevertheless persevered in for results that
will appear in after time — this is indeed
greatness. But perhaps it was only a
crazy thought to try and give artistic
symbols to such greatness ; and I am not
sure that I can myself define what I sought
to do, and I see how easily the sublime in
Schwarzfeld's plan and mine could have
merged into the ridiculous.'

The launch was scudding over the dark
water, and the overhanging pines formed
a vault above our heads. Swan Island
was a speck behind us, and we could seethe
steeple of Steindorf Church tapering
above the white cottages of a hillside
village. One more islet had to be passed :
it was called Rose Island, and the fragrance
of a thousand bushes in flower was
wafted to us as we shot by it. Pointing to

a promontory, the Prince suddenly ejaculated
—

That's where I threw poor Mira Vogel-sang
into the lake ; I presume you have
heard all about it.'

Not much, sir ; something vague.'
I was sure you had heard something,'
rejoined the Prince bitterly, 'and I'll wager
you were never told that I nearly lost my
life in rescuing the girl. She had been singing
to me in a boat one of the divinest songs
ever composed, and I was under the complete
thrall of it, when the silly thing abruptly
wound up with a vulgar jingle from
some Viennese music-hall song, and threw
her stout arms round my neck. Startled
from my dream, and forgetting where I
was, I gave her an impatient shove, andover
she went, plump ! Der Tetzel !
she weighs a hundred kilogrammes,

and pulled me down three times as though
her struggling limbs had been Rhine
weeds. Happily there were sailors in
the boat, and we were both pulled out.
If Mira had got drowned my enemies
would have raised a cr)^ of cold-blooded
murder, and I should have been handed
over to the mad doctors.'

Who are your enemies, sir ? Excuse
the question, but I may be better able to
serve you if I know to what dangers you
are exposed.'

I spoke these words on the impulse of
the moment, for I felt I must seize this
opportunity of telling the Prince that he
could depend on me, and ask him to trust
me. Not a muscle of his face moved. He
hesitated just for a moment, and a careless
smile broke over his intelligent features ashe
replied —

'Count Hochort and a strong Court
party wish to keep me from the throne, as
I am sure you know. They blacken my
character, and hope that I shall grow dismayed
by my own unpopularity and abdicate
my rights. But this I shall not do,
and when they discover how determined I
am, perhaps they will let me alone. At
all events these enemies would not, I
think, take my life. I have other enemies
political fanatics — who think I have betrayed
them because they have misunderstood
me. These men would stick a knife
between my shoulders if they dared, or
could, but I do not fear them. I have
other enemies, again, in persons whom I
have obliged but have been compelled to
drop because they became tiresome ; and I
am now on the way to making new enemies,
more powerful and dangerous than any of

the Others, by designs on which the happiness
of my Hfe depends, and in which I
mean to succeed or die. But here we are
at Steindorf.'

The launch drew up alongside a small
pier, and I saw in the road beyond two
horses held by liveried grooms and a
throng of villagers watching to see us
land. All heads were bared as the Prince
stepped over the gangway, and an old
man, who was the burgomaster, advanced,
hat in hand, to pay some compliments.
The Prince answered courteously, but declined
an invitation to go up to the burgomaster's
house and refresh himself. A
village girl stood with a bouquet which she
had evidently come to present, but was too
bashful to do so. The Prince called her
forward, took a flower from the nosegay,
and stuck it into his buttonhole ; then

kissed her hand, to her great confusion,
and sprang lightly into the saddle.

We have a sharp ride before us,' he
muttered to me half in a whisper, as he
spurred his horse into a canter.

We were well mounted, and after we had
cantered clear of the village our horses
settled into a smart trot. We rode away
from the lake, and it was soon shut out of
sight by our turning the foot of a hill.
For some distance we rode along a road
between two hills, then branched off,
ascended high ground, and entered a wood.
Here I lost my bearings. I had not been
taking attentive notice of the ground we
crossed, for, having to ride a neck's length
to rearward of the Prince on his left, and
to keep my ears open to catch his Royal

Highness's casual remarks, I had also to
restrain my horse from lessening the
respectful distance which should divide a
prince from his equerry. My horse being
the more spirited of the two, this was not
easy. The brute pulled hard at the snaffle,
tossed at the curb, and if touched with the
spur would have shot past the Prince like
a ball from a catapult. As this was my
first trial on horseback, I was anxious to
show that I could ride properly ; the more
so as I began to suspect that this particularly
mettlesome beast had been selected
for me on purpose to test my skill.

We were about twenty minutes in the
wood, now trotting, now walking down a
zigzag track with gentle gradients, till we
debouched on to an open road winding
down the sides of a hill for a couple of
miles. I had expected to find hills on our

left, but they were on our right, so I was
quite out in my topography. Up to the
moment of our entering the wood, all the
peasants whom we met had recognised the
Prince and saluted him humbly. But
beyond the wood he was not known.
Countrymen occasionally touched their
hats out of civility to us as strangers ; but
there was no recognition.

Putting his horse at an amble as we
descended the hill, the Prince pointed to a
village in the plain and told me we would
dismount there, and that he would leave
me for several hours as he had a visit to
pay. He might be absent all the afternoon,
he said, so that he would make an
appointment with me for six o'clock.

You needn't spend a dull time though,
for there are some interesting ruins of an
abbey in the neighbourhood, and about

three kilometres off an odd little market
town called Badstadt. But if you ride,
keep your horse fresh for our return to
Grlinsee ; and at the inn please speak tome
only in English, for I don't want anybody
to know who I am.'

There was nothing for it but to obey
without asking questions. We dismounted
at the inn, and whilst I followed the ostler
to the stables the Prince went on his way.
It was in no wise singular that he should
part company with me ; but I had not
expected it, and could not shake off a
childish feeling of annoyance that he
should have vouchsafed me no hint as to
where he was going. After all I had seen
and heard, my sense of responsibility had
become too acute to be pleasant.

I had not the least idea as to where I
was, and was afraid to ask. Lest any

cyphers or crowns on our saddlery should
betray the Prince's identity I examined
every article when the horses had been
stalled ; then feeling I should best avoid
curiosity by going out as though I knew
my way, I started for a stroll along the
high road, determined to be guided by the
finger-posts.

Half an hour's walk brought me to a
guardhouse with a striped sentry-box,
where a soldier, not wearing the uniform
of Kronheim, stood sentinel. Apparently
I had reached the frontier of the kingdom.
No passport was requested, and I walked
on ; but uneasy meditations returned.
When the Prince proposed our riding
excursion I imagined it was an impromptu
thought, but it seemed now that he must
have formed a plan, and had perhaps gone
on some escapade into the neighbouring

State. Of course he had a right to leave
the kingdom, but why had he not taken mea
little into his confidence ?

Presently, however, I turned to gaze at
the landscape, and noticed a large country-house
or chateau, standing upon a hill on
the Kronheim side of the border. A
peasant woman was passing, and I asked
her to whom the place belonged. She
spoke in patois, but I caught the words
Princess Sophia of Kronheim, and this
reassured me, for I knew that the lady
named was Prince Frederick's aunt, and
there was nothing improbable in the
inference that he had gone to spend an
afternoon with this relative.

The nearest market - town was called
Badstadt. It was the place where the
Gazette which was always slandering the
Prince was printed. As it was market

day I passed up the crowded main street
without attracting observation. Country
gentlemen in dirty gaiters, farmers and
drovers, were lagging for cattle and pigs,
and the door of the principal hotel, ' Kaiser
Max,' was blocked up with shabby gigs and
ill-groomed nags. Nothing is so rare in
Germany as to see a gentleman's trap well
appointed.

A bookseller's shop stood near the inn,
and some Baedeker's Tides in German
were exposed in the window. This was a
relief, for I went in and bought one, and
while waiting for my luncheon of stewed
beef and beer in the eating-room of the
hotel — a place reeking of onions and
tobacco — I was enabled to take a lesson in
geography. It appeared from the map
that we were much nearer to the palace of
Griinsee than I had thought, our ride

having brought us round to the valley side
of the lake. The hills which skirted the
road I had just walked were those which
closed the prospect of waving grass land to
be seen from the palace when one looked
towards the near shore.

The Guide recommended the ruined
Cistercian Abbey, of which the Prince had
spoken, as a place worth seeing, so thither
I bent my steps after doing my best with
the stewed beef in its sauce of chopped
grains and prunes. The ruins were in
charge of a sacristan, who belonged to an
adjoining village church, and I was amused
at the old fellow's attempts to be facetious
at the expense of the departed monks.
He must have learned his pleasantries
from parties of American tourists and German
students, who somehow always talk
as if these monks must have been merry

dogs. The sacristan was rather abashed
by my remarking that the sleeping arrangements
of the friars did not betoken a very
joyous style of living. The dormitory was
in good preservation — a large stone hall,
with no provision of any kind for firing,
and it must have been perishing cold in
winter.

As we came out of the abbey an old
woman with a gipsy face stood offering
photographs at a crumbling ivied gate,
where lizards were to be seen ducking in
and out of crevices.

Does your grace want his fortune
told ? ' she asked ; and willing, like Robinson
in Richard Doyle's book, to encourage
native industry wherever I went, I held
out my hand with a mark in it.

You have come from far and you have
far to go ; but you are not home yet,' she

crooned, shaking her head. ' Beware your
companion! Bit, but !' (Blood, blood!)

You say that because you think I ama
soldier.'

But she only repeated Butt, but ! and
closing my hand quietly pushed it from her.

I made sure that the hag had seen me
riding with Prince Frederick, and that his
evil reputation had suggested this little
scene of soothsaying, the which troubled
me not at all. It was now time to return
to the inn where we had left our horses.
I arrived there shortly before six, and sat
down in an harboured garden by the roadside,
ordering some coffee. The day had
been gloriously fine, but had now turned
sultry, and the sky was overcast. I expected
every minute that the Prince would
appear ; but a whole hour passed, then
another, and there were no signs of him.

VOL. I II

The sky was now heavy with clouds, and
a wind was rising.

We shall have rain to-nio^ht,' remarked
the landlord, coming out to take a look at
me. ' Have you far to ride, gracious sir'
i^gnddiger He7'7^) ?

'To Steindorf,' I replied, fancying that we
might return by the road that had brought us.

'To Steindorf is far,' said the landlord,
in his stolid German way ; and as he
seemed disposed to prolong our conversation,
I asked him to show me to a room
where I could wash my hands.

I was now growing rather alarmed, and
for the first time it struck me as curious
that the Prince should not have brought a
groom with him. If he had been going to
visit his aunt it would have been only
natural that he should have been escorted
by a servant, and have stabled his horse at

the Schloss ; nor did there seem to be any
reason why a mystery should have been
made on the subject with me.

As darkness came on I could no longer
conceal from the landlord that I was
anxious about my companion ; but being
debarred from speaking frankly, I could
only say that he had gone to pay a visit,
and I concluded he had been detained for
dinner. To give myself some countenance
I ordered lights to be brought and something
to eat ; but I could neither eat nor
drink, and paced the little bedroom with
boarded floor wondering how long I might
have to wait, and at what hour it might be
my duty to send a messenger to Conventual
and take him into council.

The wind had become boisterous, the
rumbling of thunder was heard, and
soon it began to pour in torrents. The

diamond-pane casement rattled on the
hook that kept it open, and had to be
closed. It was nearly ten o'clock, and the
situation was becoming serious ; for it was
extremely improbable that the Prince
would come and join me for a night ride
in such weather. My last hope was that
he might send to give me news of himself
and allay my fears.

The window being shut, and the wind
and thunder raging outside, I could hear
little of what was going on in the house.
All at once, however, I fancied there were
sounds of horses' hoofs, and a minute later
the landlord came in, saying —

Your companion, gracious sir, is downstairs,
and mounting.'

I paid for my refreshments and the
stabling, and was down the staircase in a
trice, the landlord crying after me —

You can have beds in the house,
gracious sir. Don't start out to ride on
such a night as this. Gottt im Simnel !
it's a dreadful night ! '

An ostler was holding my horse.
and had thrown a sack over the saddle
to keep it dry in the downpour. By the
light of the oil lamp hanging over the
yard gate I caught sight of the Prince
already mounted and in the road. He
called out something to me which was
inaudible, and gave a loud laugh, then
turned his bridle and galloped off, I following
as fast as I could. Astonished
exclamations were uttered by half a dozen
loafers who had sallied out of the tap-room
to see us start.

I was too thankful at having the Prince
with me again safe and sound to expect
either explanation or apology from him.

In fact I ceased to think of the anxieties he
had caused me, having quite enough to preoccupy
me in keeping my horse from
bolting. We were going at a furious rate,
and the Prince's horse, which was a strong
galloper and not nervous, kept three
lengths ahead of mine in a steady stride.
My horse went on playing tricks, swerved
at every white stone, shied and snorted at
the lightning, and twice, when claps of
thunder pealed, slewed right round and tried
madly to go back. The rain descended pitilessly,
my arms were heavy from the water
that soaked my sleeves, and streams poured
down my neck off my hat. I had never
had such a ride. We were not going by
the road which had brought us from Stein-dora,
and this at least was satisfactory, as
I guessed the Prince was making for home
by the shortest way through the grass

valley. He knew the road, for he pounded
along without stopping, till we came to a
hill where he had to slacken speed, and
there I overtook him. He spoke not a
word, but bent his head to the storm and
rode on, patting his horse's neck. A thick
muffler (which he had not worn in the
morning) was round his throat, and concealed
almost the whole of his face, as I
noticed once when a plunge of my horse
brought me abreast of him. As soon as
level ground was reached he set off again
at a good trot, and upon our coming
to the brow of the hill, and beginning
the descent on the other side, he went
away at a renewed gallop, much too fast
even for a frustrate rider down such a
road. To be sure the road was broad, but
I had to weigh upon my near rein to keep
to the hillside, for any curvet of my horse

on a Steep like this would have sent us
rolling Heaven knows where.

From the top of the hill lights could be
seen in the valley, but as we approached
the base these vanished ; for a stretch of
woods began half way down the hill, and
continued for a short distance over the
plain. The noise of the trees, as the wind
rushed through them, rustling their millions
of leaves, bending the trunks and making
the rotten branches crack, was bewildering.
However, our down-hill gallop ended, and
dashing across a high road, which separated
the declivity from the level part of the wood,
charged into an avenue which was pitch
dark.

Rapidly as we crossed the road I beheld
a man dart from behind a tree close
to the Prince's horse. The same moment
there was a double flash, which I took for

lightning, and two sharp reports. But
these were unmistakable. They were gunshots.
I had ridden past the man as into
the darkness of a cavern, and could not see
what had happened. But I heard a cry,
with the sound of a fall, a terrified shriek
from the horse in front — the shriek of a
wounded horse, too well known to cavalry
soldiers — and some hideous crackling of
twigs. The horrible truth broke upon me
that the Prince had been shot, had fallen off
his horse, and was being dragged along
with his foot in the stirrup !

How I reined in, dismounted, and
stumbled over a prostrate body, cannot be
described. The Prince's horse had fallen,
and was lying on his back kicking in death
convulsions. I had passed the bridle of
my horse through my arm lest he should
decamp, but he reared and tugged so

violently that I had to engage in a struggle
with him, and clutch him tight by the
nostrils, before I could make him stand
steady, while I groped for the Prince and
raised him.

Something warm trickled over my face
and hands, and I knew it to be blood.
The body was quite inert : no sigh or
breath came from the lips. I felt for the
wound, but my hand slipped in blood ; and
at a new movement from my horse, which
jerked me aside, the body glided off my
arm, the lifeless knees bent, and it rolled
heavily on to the sodden road.

O God ! what shall I do ? ' I cried
aloud for help in the utter darkness, shouting
again and again with all my might.
But no sound could be heard except the
wind, the rain, and the rustling of those
millions of leaves.

To leave the Prince lying in the rain whilst
I rode off for help was not to be thought of.
With infinite difficulty I raised the body
again and hoisted it on to my saddle, then
remounted, and held it in my arms. The
head lolled on my shoulder, and the legs
dangled over the horse's neck. Luckily
the horse gave no more trouble. Whether
cowed by my tussle with him, or frightened
by the expiring neighs of the other horse, or
fatigued by the extra weight which he had
to carry, he walked quietly, with his head
lowered, and his sides heaving as he panted.

What my reflections were as we wended
our way through the dark wood at a funeral
pace I cannot say. I knew that I was
carrying a corpse, for, pressing my hand to
the heart under the shirt, I felt it had
stopped beating ; and bending my ear to
the mouth, I could not catch a breath. A
heavy charge of swan-shot, so far as I could
make out, had shattered one side of the
head. Several of the shot slipped into my
hand as I was fingering the clotted hair.

But I had to strain my eyes for a light.
When we emerged from the wood it was
still raining so hard and the sky was so
black that I could hardly see twenty paces
ahead ; however, this was no longer obscurity,
and I urged my horse into a slow
trot. Another mile was covered without
our meeting a human creature. At last I
came to a wayside cottage. All the shutters

were closed, but I pulled up, hallooed at
the top of my voice, and struck the shutters
with my riding-whip.

Presently sounds could be heard. The
door was opened, and a man in a night-cap
came out holding a lantern. But when he
had lifted the light to my face and seen my
ghastly burden, he uttered a whoop of
terror, ran indoors and barred himself in.
Nothing could bring him out again.

It's Prince Frederick,' I shouted ; ' for
goodness' sake come and help me.'

Go to the Swan Inn,' cried the man
from the inside, and would make no other
answer, so I had to continue my ride.

I might have tried at other cottages,
but, seeing some lights in the distance,
rode on. The Swan Inn I supposed to
be the same which Harold Crowe and
Sonnenthal frequented, and if so I was

sure of assistance there, and was besides
near to Griinsee. While considering this,
I came upon a blacksmith's forge with
an open shed contiguous. The forge was
closed, but guiding my horse into the
shed I descried a trough with a bundle of
hay in it. Carefully slipping off the
saddle and holding the dead body of my
hapless master, I carried it into the shed
and laid it on the earth ; then made a bed
and pillow for it with the hay, and removed
it gently to this rude couch. I did this
because I could now be free to ride off
to the inn in haste.

A few minutes' gallop brought me to
the doorway. Fiddling and dancing were
going on in the principal room — the noisy
dancing of peasants, with stamping of shoes
and uproarious laughter. I jumped off
my horse, but forgot that I was covered

with blood and that my clothes were
soaked. I had no sooner entered the
ballroom, which opened on to the road,
than dismayed shouts arose ; girls screamed
and escaped into corners ; the music
ceased — a thrill of horror ran round.
Dazzled by the lights, and too much overcome
to articulate, I stood for a moment
faltering so hoarsely that nobody understood
me.

Prince Frederick has been shot.'

Good heavens, what's the matter,
Meredith ?' and Harold Crowe advanced
towards me elaborately attired in evening
dress. ' We have a wedding party here,'
he added to explain his presence.

A shutter, lanterns, and a doctor,' I
repeated in German. ' Prince Frederick
has been shot.'

'When? where? who did it?' While

consternation was depicted on every face,
questions were pressed upon me from all
sides, and the scene of late mirth was converted
into one of wild confusion. A
village gendarme, who was one of the
guests, pushed some of the company aside
and put me a series of interrogatories.
While I answered him as best I could I
caught sight of myself in a looking-glass,
and saw what a frightful object I was.

'Whose blood is that upon you, sir?'
asked the gendarme.

The Prince's. I am not wounded
myself. '

Here, take this glass of wine,' said
Harold. ' You can hardly speak.'

The women were huddled together
round the bride, a fine girl, whose face
was now whiter than her dress. The
bridegroom, a young fellow with a large

favour of coloured ribbons on his jacket,
sought to console her ; but he too joined
the men who were hurrying about to fetch
the lanterns, and the top of a deal table to
serve as a stretcher.

Somebody ran off to rouse the village
doctor. The rest of us started for the
forge, Harold trudging beside me through
the mud in his patent-leather shoes. The
women clustered in the doorway trembling;
and remained watching — some sobbing
too — till we came back.

I walked in front, and on reaching

the shed took a lantern and held it over

the face of the dead Prince. But the

features were so disfigured by gore as

to be undistinguishable. The gendarme

stooped and felt one of the hands.

'Quite dead!' he said, and there fell a

scared silence upon all, while the rain pat-vol.
I 12

tered dismally on the slated roof of the
shed.

The lanterns cast a lurid light around,
and the hushed whispers that broke out
had a ghostly sound. Six men lifted the
body, laid it on the stretcher and covered
it with a blanket. Then we returned with
it slowly to the inn.

It was laid on the floor of the ballroom.
This was the ordinary tavern room, the
thick rafters of which had been decked with
garlands of paper roses and bunches of
greenery for the wedding feast. The
village doctor, a gray-headed little man,
had arrived, and stood all ready with his
coat off and his shirt sleeves tucked up.

'Quick, the sponge and water,' he said,
and kneeling beside the body he began
to wash the face, whilst I held up the
head.

A mute circle of eager faces watched
the operation ; then a chorus of murmurs
broke out as Harold Crowe exclaimed —

Why, that's not the Prince ; it's
Tristan ! '

It was Tristan. The servant had
apparently died for his master.

I could not at first realise it. Explanations
were asked of me, and I gave them
without any presence of mind, stating
things exactly as they had happened. But
the general impression was that I had
deceived myself, and I soon ceased to urge
the contrary, perceiving that my first
allegations tended to bring a charge against
the Prince of having wilfully caused himself
to be personated by his servant.

My relief was so intense that momentarily
it stifled all feeling of compassion for

the poor fellow who had been killed. A
like feeling, and some sense of the ridiculous
as regards me, provoked a smothered
laugh or two among the bystanders.
Tristan had never been popular, and
tongues began to wag about him pretty-freely.


He had a rough way,' grumbled one,

and wasn't kind to the poor.'

Ay, he had many an enemy,' observed
another. ' You would have thought he
was lord of Grlinsee from the way he
went on.'

You couldn't get near the Prince
whilst he was there,' cried a woman.

If you tried to cross over to the island
he set on those ugly Greeks to bark at
you.'

Everybody seemed convinced that
Tristan had been murdered in revenge

for doings of his own ; and such was
Harold Crowe's opinion.

You say that Tristan did speak to you
at the inn ? ' he asked of me in a whisper.

Yes ; he called out to me from the
road, but I could not hear what he said.'

Probably he told you that the Prince
had sent him.'

I daresay that was it.'

But in my own mind I was not persuaded.
If Tristan had come to me with
a message from the Prince he would have
taken my orders, and would not have
ridden in front of me all the way. And
then I recollected the comforter which he
wore concealing his features.

The village doctor had dropped the
sponge and had put on his coat, as though
the discharge of menial offices to a dead
servant could be left to less eminent hands.

I myself took up the sponge and washed
poor Tristan's cold face, till Andreas Riedl,
the landlord — a husky red-nosed man —
suggested that the body should be carried
to another room.

I ordered the crew of the launch to
come over for me at midnight, and they
are waiting now,' said Harold; 'we had
better take poor Tristan over to the island.'

But this was objected to by the gendarme,
who remarked that the chief of the
police must view the body. So the corpse
was carried into a spare bedroom.

Take off the clean sheets and fetch
some old sacks,' cried the landlord as heled
the way.

The night's merriment of the wedding
party had been quenched. The bride had
retired crying at the evil omen for her
nuptials ; and some men hung about the

bar, sulky that they could not resume the
fun. I overheard sundry scoffing remarks
about myself.

He must be pretty green,' said one,
and the rest laughed.

After I had washed, and wiped the
stains from my clothes, Harold and I
returned to the island. We found many
of the servants astir, for they had heard
of the murder. The death of Tristan concerned
them as he was the head servant,
but there was only excitement — no sorrow
— in their demeanour. Nobody had
thought it necessary to go and inform
Count Sonnenthal, who was in bed, so
Harold and I went to his room and awoke
him.

I don't see what we can do,' yawned
the aide-de-camp, when he had rubbed
his eyes and propped himself on an elbow.

The Princess Dorothea arrived this
evening,' observed Harold. ' Ought not
Meredith to send her a message ? '

The Princess will hear of the matter
from her women said Sonnenthal. ' Meredith
can send her a message, but it won't
be delivered till morning. I suppose that
when she's up she'll want to hear all
about it.'

But how can I communicate with the
Prince ? ' I asked. ' Have you any idea
where he may be ? '

'On the spree, of course,' answered
Sonnenthal, ' but where, there's no guessing.'


As may well be imagined, the advice
which Isabel Meadowes had given me
recurred often and often during that wakeful
night. Without any fault on my part
I had been involved in a dark business
which for an hour or two had seemed to me
fraught with possibilities of my utter ruin.

Twenty times, as I carried Tristan's
dead body through the wood, believing it
to be the Prince's, I had thought that I
might be accused of having had a hand
in the Prince's murder. The only witness
of the deed, I might at least be reproached

with not having made haste to
catch the assassin. Why had I not
turned rein, dashed after the man, and
ridden him down ?

It is easy to say Why ? after the event.
Conning over all the details of the scene,
it was quite clear to me that I had acted
for the best, and that pursuit of an armed
murderer at night, and through a dark
wood which I had never crossed before,
would have been useless. Now that
Tristan proved to be the man killed it
did not much matter how I had acted ;
but my night thoughts would mix themselves
up with the fancy which had terrified
me in the wood — when I discerned
how every detail of that night adventure
might be turned to my injury by the
Prince's enemies if they cared to sacrifice
me as a scapegoat.

An officer who has commanded in an
engagement sits down to write his report
on the affair while the facts are fresh in
his mind. It occurred to me that I could
not do better than commit to paper every
incident of the day, from the moment of
our landing at Steindorf, that I might
have accurate memoranda in case I had to
give evidence on oath. It took me about
three hours to draft my report, correct it,
and make a clean copy ; and after this, as
I could not sleep, I wrote a pretty full
letter to Isabel Meadows, lest some
garbled version of the events should reach
her through the newspapers. Neither in
the report nor in the letter was there any
suspicion mentioned as to the Prince's
having intended to deceive me.

For as I wrote I could not but acknowledge
to myself on how slender a stem my

suspicions rested. The argument on which
I most relied, namely, that Tristan had
ridden in front of me, crumbled into nothing
when I remembered that Tristan
knew the way and that I did not. It was
natural therefore that he should gallop in
front. As to his having mounted without
having personally delivered the Prince's
message to me, that might have been from
want of manners or hurry ; or perhaps the
poor man had sent me a proper message
through the landlord, which the latter had
not repeated as it was given.

I say that my suspicions were frail ; but
I had an intuitive conviction that there had
been an attempt at personation. The
Prince had told me that he was embarked
on an enterprise which might raise up
enemies more powerful and dangerous than
any he yet possessed. Might he not, in

pursuance of his designs, have wished to
absent himself from Griinsee for a day or
two without his absence being suspected
by the spies who, doubtless, lurked in his
household ? After my conversation with
the Prince on board the launch I could not
readily admit Sonnenthal's idea of a mere
spree.

But whithersoever my reasoning led me,
one question always remained. Had the
murderer intended to kill Tristan or the
Prince ? Until this point was cleared up,
I must consider the Prince's position as
precarious, and my own troubles as not
yet over.

In the morning I received a summons
from the Princess Dorothea.

Her Royal Highness also requested
that Sonnenthal and Harold Crowe should
wait upon her. The former she knew well.

the latter slightly. I must mention that
Harold, who was always practising high-art
combinations in dress, turned out for
this occasion in a suit of delicate sage
green, with a salmon silk neckerchief.
Sonnenthal was in Jager clothes, for Prince
Frederick expressly forbade the wearing of
military uniforms at Grlinsee.

As we all three stood bowing in a 
the Princess Dot, that little lady turned
the whites of her eyes towards the ceiling
and whispered audibly behind an open
book of theology to an elderly countess,
who was her chaperon and Mistress of the
Household —

Ah ! mon Dieu ! quel doux spectacle :
trois beaux hommes ensemble.'

The Princess could only be described asa
funny little thing. Not pretty, nor plain,
nor dwarfed ; she was tiny, and had the

ways of a kitten. Her cheeks were like
two pink bonbons ; her golden hair stuffed
into a mop of diminutive curls ; she endeavoured
to make her blue eyes look
large by always keeping them wide open.
She had generally but two moods — comical
gravity and paroxysms of giggling. The
possessor of dainty little feet and baby
hands, she exhibited these attractions with
the utmost complacency, thrusting one
rosette slipper after another from under
her dress, clasping her fingers and making
her jewelled rings flash in the sun. Her
dresses were of Paris make and fitted her
exquisitely. French was her favourite language,
and her mind was nourished on
German devotional works and French
novels. There were a number of domestic
pets round her — a screaming macaw on a
perch, two nestling love birds in a cage.

goldfish in an aquarium, a pair of gray
Persian cats on the carpet, her huge Danish
dog with the silver collar, and stuffed dogs
deceased from over-feeding — all about
the room.

Captain Meredith, Countess Von
Marchfeld,' said the Princess, introducing
me to her chaperon (a well-bred old lady
of silent disposition), and then followed a
second introduction to H.R.H.'s reader,
Baroness Bettina Von Schnupff, a tall
and sentimental young person with a long
nose.

What a dreadful night you must have
had ! ' exclaimed the Princess, ogling me
behind her book. 'I do so hope you have
not caught cold. And now please do
tell me about the murderer ; was he very
violent and shocking ? '

I hardly saw him, madam.'

But he had red hair, hadn't he ? I am
sure all murderers have red hair. This is
a horrible end for poor Tristan ; but do you
know, it's a strange thing his dog Hacko
could never agree with mine, and my Sultan
is a sweet dog — quite a human being, I
should say, if human beings were sweet.'

She put up her book to her lips and
tittered, looking round to the Countess,
who smiled, and to the Baroness Bettina,
who bent her pointed nose over a
volume and had an internal convulsion,
which jerked her black silk shoulder-blades
towards her ears.

Sonnenthal laughed. We all lashed.
It was very amusing.

Mr. Crowe, you ought to paint a picture
of Hacko and Sultan being reconciled
over Tristan's grave,' continued the Princess.
' It would be very touching; it would

VOL. I 13

really. Oh, I'm not laughing — hee, hee.
I mustn't laugh any more. I'm too giddy.
Captain Meredith, I wanted to say something
to you, but I've forgotten it. Oh,
it's this. Some time ago, when I believed
in purgatory, I should have been very
anxious for poor Tristan ; but now I don't
believe in purgatory any more, not at all.
Do you ? '

Not at all. Princess ; none of us,' echoed
Sonnenthal, with a slight mimicry of her
tone.

Oh, you believe in nothing. Count —
hee, hee. I'm ashamed of you. But
Captain Meredith looks as if he knew that
he had a soul. It's a way with the English.
I wish you'd tell me, Captain, do you
ever think about paradise ? '

Perhaps not so often as I ought,
madam.'

Oh, you ought to think about it, for
it's the place we're all going to. I'm everlastingly
thinking about it, though I don't
want to go too soon. Hee, hee. But now
I want to put you a very serious question.
You needn't give me an answer at once,
but can think over it a few days, for it's
puzzling me a great deal. Let me see
how to put it. Well, do you believe that
there are classes in paradise, or that
we shall all be mixed up together, my
coachman, my maids, and I ? Somehow
I can't picture my coachman with wings
and a gold crown, unless he gets a new
body ; and if he changes his body, what
will be left of him ? '

*We must seriously ponder over that
point,' remarked Sonnenthal. ' I see
in it a new subject for a picture by
Crowe — *' The Tertiary of Paradise " —

St. Peter serving out new bodies to
coachmen.'

I'm not talking to you, you're too
horrid,' giggled the Princess. 'After a
cruel affair like this my thoughts naturally
turn to solemn subjects. Indeed, if this
had happened a year ago I should have
burned a large taper and paid for masses,
and I should perhaps have gone a pilgrimage
; but now I don't believe in candles,
masses, or pilgrimages — not at all.'

Not at all; none of us do,' echoed
Sonnenthal, upon which the Baroness
Bettina Schnupff had another good fit of
shoulder-spasms.

This will be most distressing to my
brother,' proceeded the Princess, disregarding
the aide-de-camp. ' I can't bear to
write to him, for I hate being the bearer
of bad news.'

Ought not I to communicate with the
Prince, madam ? ' I asked.

Oh no,' said Princess Dot, and threw
a quick glance at me. ' My brother is
staying with our aunt, the Princess Sophia,
and will be back tomorrow, unless he
hears of the murder and comes back
sooner. Bad news travels so fast that he
is pretty sure to hear of it, so why disturb
him ? '

I felt certain from the Princess's., manner
of saying this that her brother was not on
a visit to his aunt ; and she must have
read in my glance, which met her s, that I
disbelieved her. She changed colour a
little, put on her air of comical gravity,
and condescendingly dismissed us, saying
we were to be sure and let her know how
Hacko bore his bereavement.

And oh ! I have just had a beautiful

thought,' she exclaimed, clasping her hands
ecstatically as we retired. ' I will give
Hacko a silver collar just like Sultan's. I
will really, and the two dogs shall look
like brothers. Dear Bettina, mind you
write to the jeweller to-day, this very
morning, about the collar. Oh, isn't it
sweet to be doing good ? '

We'll all wear silver collars ; we'll all
look like brothers,' proposed Sonnenthal.

Go , along you,' cried the Princess,
shaking her forefinger. ' You are material
you don't understand the raptures of the
spirit.'

Prince Frederick did not return to
Grlinsee that day, or the next. Meanwhile
the police were investigating the
circumstances of Tristan's murder, and I
was called to assist. A party of us
on horseback, consisting of Sonnenthal,

Harold, a chief constable, two gendarmes,
and myself, rode over the whole ground
which had been the scene of our adventure.
The spot where Tristan had fallen
was plainly marked by the stains of blood
and by the carcase of his horse, which lay,
cold and stark, across the avenue.

Poor Caesar ! the Prince's best charger,'
remarked Sonnenthal ; ' there isn't his
match in the stables.'

What's this ? ' exclaimed one of the
gendarmes, who had extracted a letter
from the pocket in the dead charger's
saddle. He gave it to the chief constable,
who handed it to me.

It's addressed to you, sir.'

The direction was in the Prince's hand.
As I opened the letter and read its contents
all eyes were fastened on me. The
writing was in ink, not hurried, and the

paper that which the Prince used in his
private correspondence, with the words
Castle Griinsee embossed ; so that the
letter had evidently been penned deliberately
before the Prince set out with me on
his day's excursion.

It ran thus in English —

Tristan will give you this if you recognise him.
Excuse my ruse, but I wish to spend three days away
from Grantee without anybody knowing of it. If I
had told you, I must have begged you to practise
duplicity for my sake, which is not my desire, unless
necessary ; but if you recognise Tristan, please do ashe
bids you. He has my instructions. Destroy this.

R.

'The Prince tells me that he shall be
absent three days,' I said, handing the
letter to Sonnenthal and Harold. There
was an excuse for not giving it to the
chief constable, who was presumably ignorant
of English, but he was eying me so

intently that I dared not keep the letter to
myself.

The contents of the letter are quite
private,' said Sonnenthal, coming at once
to my rescue ; and this satisfied the constable,
who appeared not to reflect that it
was odd Tristan should have kept the
letter in his saddle, instead of giving it tome
as soon as we had met.

I re-read the letter and was going to
tear it up, when Sonnenthal whispered,
Don't do that till you're alone — the
policeman suspects something.'

We had dismounted and went on foot
over the distance — about a hundred yards
between the place where Tristan had
fallen and that where he had been shot at.

We soon discovered the spot where the
murderer had stood to take aim, for under
a tree lay two empty swanshot cartridges

with the name of the maker, 'Brown, London,'
on the brass.

These are the very cartridges the
Prince uses for wildgoose-shooting,' ejaculated
Sonnenthal.

What did you say. Count ? ' asked the
chief constable.

I said these were sporting cartridges,'
replied Sonnenthal evasively.

A shade overspread his face, for another
discovery had been made — the sheath of a
hunting-knife.

We examined the object without a
word, but we were both grave.

Prince Frederick had been wearing that
sheath, or one identically like it, when he
went out with me.

SoNNENTHAL also recognised the sheath.
He had often seen the Prince wear it, and
knew it by some scratches on the leather.
Neither of us, however, gave a hint of
this to the police. Not till we were alone,
at the end of the day's search, did we
speak to each other freely.

One assumes a heavy responsibility by
concealing material facts from the police
in an investigation as to crime. So we
both felt, but our self-excuse was that we
could not be positively sure about the
sheath. German hunting - knives are

made much after one pattern — besides, if
we had spoken out we should immediately
have conveyed an impression to the
chief constable and gendarmes that it
was the Prince himself who had murdered
Tristan.

It was absurd to think that the Prince
had committed such a crime — absurd, that
is to say, unless he were partially insane, as
some of his enemies pretended him to be.

Harold put out a timid feeler in this
direction when he, Sonnenthal, and I sat
talking together in an undertone in my
rooms, before dinner.

Isn't the Prince rather addicted to
looking upon the people around him as
spies ? '

Sonnenthal, whose devil-may-care spirits
had forsaken him, shook his head. ' The
Prince knows that there are spies among

his servants. He told me that one of his
footmen was a mad doctor ; but he is on
his guard against these people, and cares
lite for them. All whom he trusts have
been well tried.'

I suppose Tristan was quite incapable
of treachery ? ' said Harold.

If Tristan had been false to his
master he would have deserved to be
shot,' declared Sonnenthal emphatically ;
but the poor fellow was true as steel.'

Of course I was only thinking of what
people might whisper if they heard about
the Prince's cartridges and knife,' observed
Harold apologetically.

There wouldn't be much whispering :
people would clamour outright that the
Prince had done the murder ; and that is
apparently why the sheath was left to
throw suspicion on him.'

All this goes against the theory that it
was intended to murder the Prince himself,'
said Harold.

I don't know,' demurred Sonnenthal,
the murderer may have thought he was
shooting at the Prince, and may have intended
to cast suspicion on one of his
servants, perhaps on Tristan himself If
the Prince had been killed, the finding of
the cartridges alone would have told heavily
against Tristan, who had charge of the gun-room.
These were peculiar cartridges,
made purposely to the Prince's orders.'

They carried a much heavier charge
than we commonly use in England,' I
remarked.

There was only one gun in the
armoury which they fitted,' muttered Son-mental,
' and I have never seen anybody
except the Prince shoot with it.'

This made us glum and silent ; in fact
the whole case was a mystery, and we
could only await the Prince's return for
its unravelment.

But before the Prince reappeared Son-mental
and I were cited to Mullen, the
justiciary town of the district, to be questioned
by the King's Procurator, and this
time we had to tell the whole truth.
Sonnenthal corroborated my evidence as
to the sheath, and admitted that he could
swear to it. As to the cartridges, he repeated
what he had told Harold and me.
Reticence would have been criminal, nor
was there any reason why we should hide
from a magistrate, interrogating us in
private, that which we should have
scrupled to bruit abroad. The Procurator
requested me to produce Prince
Frederick's letter, but I had destroyed it.

which was awkward, as the magistrate
drew unfavourable inferences from the
fact. He was a typical provincial magistrate,
elderly, slow-going, and very nervous
at having to handle a case in which a
Prince of the blood was concerned. Son-mental
and I, being Court officials, were
big persons in his estimation, and he was
afraid to press us closely : he did not even
venture to keep his clerk in the room to
take down our depositions, but wrote
them out himself, laboriously, with a hard
steel pen, and made a great mess with the
sand which he used for drying his ink.

This case must be withdrawn from my
jurisdiction, gentlemen,' he said at length.
Have you any objection to sign these
depositions ? '

We had none, and signed — the Procurator
intimating that orders had been

telegraphed to him from Sabelburg to
transmit all the documents to the Minister
of Justice.

There is a law in Kronheim, as in most
continental countries, that causes touching
members of the reigning family, however
remotely, may be removed from the common
tribunals and referred to the private
adjudication of the Sovereign. From what
happened in this instance, however, it was
amply proved to me that the Prince had
determined enemies in high places, for a
couple of days later the Badstadt Gazette
published every scrap of the evidence
which Sonnenthal and I had given in
caetera. The pestilent little paper professed
to have sent a special reporter to
the scene of the murder, and grouped all
the facts (to which it added a string of
inventions) so as to point suspicion at the

VOL, I 14

Prince. Finally, it announced that Prince
Frederick had absconded and could not be
found.

At the time when the journal published
this the Prince was already back
at Griinsee.

I can never forget the evening of his
return — three clear days after the murder.
He had been on a far journey and had
heard nothing of what had occurred. The
first information was given him by the
boatmen who ferried him over to the
island. He went straight to his study and
rang for me. I found him in a horrible
state of agitation, walking to and fro, sobbing
hysterically, and crying —

Oh my poor Tristan — my only true
friend ! O God, what have I done that
all this should befall me ? '

Some time elapsed before the first outburst

of his grief had spent itself. It was
genuine grief. No comedian could have
called up such tears or such agony of
expression. Throwing himself into an
arm-chair in an attitude of complete prostration
he at last told me to relate all
that had happened.

I began a succinct account, but omitted
nothing. When I came to the relation of
how I had lifted Tristan in my arms and
ridden with him through the dark, trying
in vain to find help, he buried his face in
his hands and sobbed again like a woman.
I was myself much moved, and faltered
often before I reached the end of my story.

The finding of the cartridges and sheath
was the point in my narrative which brought
the Prince in some measure to himself.
Drying his eyes, he listened with anxious
attention, and said in a broken voice —

After leaving you I went to a house
a small shooting-lodge, which I own
near the frontier — and changed my
clothes. I left my hunting-knife ; and
I know my double - barrel swanshot
gun was there. They must have been
stolen.'

Was the lodge in charge of anybody ? '
'Yes, an old woman.'

A gipsy-faced woman ? ' I asked, thinking
of the hag whom I had encountered
at the ruined abbey.

No, an old woman who was once my
nurse — Tristan's mother.'

I reported my interview with the gipsy,
having already mentioned it in my legal
depositions.

That will have to be inquired into,'
moaned Prince Frederick. ' I cannot guess
who stole the things. But from what you

say I gather that every circumstance of
my journey has become public ? '

Everything is known, sir, except where
your Royal Highness went.'

That's just my luck,' wailed the Prince.
Everything I do turns to my confusion.
Yet I have done no wrong. I have been
to Ems, and I may tell you now, since
secrecy is no longer possible, that I am
paying my addresses to the daughter of
an emperor. I love her, she loves me ;
and some of her relations favour my suit,
but others would be strenuously opposed
to it were they to hear of the matter ; and
I know that by our own Royal family
and ministers such counterplots might be
worked as would cause the engagement
to be broken off My object in going to
Ems was to advance preliminaries so far
that this engagement could not be marred

by perfidious intrigues as the others have
been. If I could have had my way the
Princess Blanche and I would have been
privately married this very week, and I
might then have defied my enemies.'

He took a photograph from his pocket,
gazed at it with piteous despair, and handed
it to me —

There she is — my good angel ! but I
have lost her now. They will put a bar
between us. O God ! it's too bad.'

It was a very sweet and good face upon
which I looked. The truthful eyes even
told me that they would not turn away
from the man before me in his abandonment,
if he only remained trustful and
brave. I spoke a few hopeful words to
raise the afflicted Prince's spirits. ' Slander
would not shake the constancy that was to
be read on this face,' I said.

But it was a pity that I should have
learned his love story just at that time.
Failure always looks mean. If the Prince
had absented himself for a few days without
my knowledge, I might afterwards, on
discovering how he had deluded me, have
felt some confidence in his playing a game
of finesse with his adversaries. But beaten,
self upbraiding, and wringing his hands
over the misfortunes which he had occasioned,
he did not appear too well able to
take care of himself. His stratagem, having
failed, seemed puerile. His remorse
and despair, though natural and creditable,
betokened anything but self-reliance.

The Prince detained me far into the
night, as though loath to be left alone with
his own thoughts. It was hardly surprising
that he did not seek communion with
the Princess Dot in his troubles. Her

Royal Highness sent a message desiring to
speak to him, but he answered that she
should see him next morning. He ended
by informing me that we must both go to
Sabelburg on the morrow, as he would
have to see the King and give an account
of his movements. Before I left him he
wrote a telegram to the King to announce
his intention.

I must establish my alibi,' he said
bitterly, ' and I must lay before the people
at Court all that I have been trying to hide
from them. Never mind ; they shall hear
strong words from me this time. They
have driven me to bay, and I'll teach them
that they have presumed too long upon my
patience. If they exasperate me further,
I'll make all Germany ring with their
infamy.'

The Prince had committed a dynastic

offence by leaving the kingdom without
the Sovereign's permission ; and King
Franz, who exacted obedience from his
Royal family, was likely to place him under
arrest for it. We travelled to the capital
next day, and Prince Frederick had a very
long interview with the King. He returned
from it flushed and with a fire of excitement
in his eyes.

The King has ordered me to remain a
month at Griinsee,' he said ; ' but I spoke
out my mind to him in Count Hochort's
presence. I asked that the Prime Minister
might be summoned, and I threw into the
old viper's teeth all the foul intrigues which
he had spawned. The King is innocent of
these things — he is a gentleman, and he
looked astounded ; but Hochort gasped.
If I sit but one day on the throne that
scoundrel shall run for his life.'

While the Prince was speaking to me, a
letter was brought to him from the King.
His cheeks burned as he read it, and he sat
down to write I know not what hasty
answer. Here is the King's letter, which
was shown me some days afterwards —

My Nephew — I heard with sorrow the disrespectful
words which you addressed to-day to my faithful
Minister, and I feel obliged to tell you that your
whole conduct does not seem to me that of a dutiful
relation or a wise prince. You complain of enemies
and intrigues ; but your enemies are of your own
making, and the intrigues exist only in your imagination.
If it have entered our minds to wish that you
were not placed so near the throne, it is because our
grave concern for the welfare of our kingdom must
make us doubt whether your character is that of a
man who could make a nation happy. I commend
you to Heaven's guidance. Franz R.

Tristan was buried, his dog got a silver
collar from Princess Dot, and his murderer
remained undetected. Policemen came
occasionally to the palace, fetching me to
confront vagabonds and poachers who had
been arrested on suspicion, but the police
never got a real clue. Tristan's mother
went out of her mind on hearing of her
son's death, and died soon afterwards. It
was never possible to elicit from her
whether any man had called at the 
and, to her knowledge, carried
away the Prince's gun and hunting-knife.

All that she could be made to say was :
Tristan foretold it.'

The gipsy woman who had cautioned
me against my companion was kept for a
long time in prison, and cross-questioned,
as is usual on the Continent, by an examining
magistrate ; but she turned out to be a
common vagrant, who disclaimed all pretensions
to the Black Art, and vowed that
she had only warned me because she had
seen me riding with Prince Frederick, who
was said to be passionate.

The Prince talked of offering 20,000
marks (^1000) for the apprehension of the
murderer, but I believe he was forbidden
to do so — ostensibly because the payment
of blood-money was repugnant to the customs
of the kingdom, but truly because the
Government felt no strong desire that the
murderer should be caught. His capture

and trial, whether public or private, must
have kept people gossiping for months
about Prince Frederick, and this was a
thing which both his enemies and those
high persons who were merely solicitous
for the credit of the Royal family had an
equal interest in averting. Perhaps the
Prince's enemies apprehended that his
latest love-affair coming to light and being
widely discussed might cause a public
reaction in his favour ; and they preferred
that he should suffer from the uncanny reputation
which Tristan's murder, so long
as it remained undiscovered, was sure to
bring him.

For it is certain that most of the
country people round Grlinsee believed
Prince Frederick guilty of the murder.
They did not loathe him for it. They
imagined that there must have been some

dark secrets between the Prince and Tristan,
which the latter had betrayed ; and as
they hated Tristan they were glad of his
punishment — nay, the idea that the Prince
could put a treacherous servant to death
with impunity rather added to the mysterious
awe which he inspired. As forme,
many were persuaded that I was
the Prince's accomplice, and possibly the
actual perpetrator of the crime, having
been hired in England for the special
purpose. I did not hear of this till sometime
afterwards ; but it eventually reached
me that Harold Crowe and Sonnenthal
had taken my defence very warmly at the
Swan Inn against village wiseacres, who
obstinately repeated : 'He's a stranger.
He was alone with Tristan, and wee saw
him covered with blood. Poor men have
been hanged for less.'

I must here give a letter which I received
from Isabel Meadowes in answer
to that which I wrote informing her of my
ghastly adventure —

Dear Captain Meredith — My father gave me
your letter unopened, and we read it together. Weare
very much obliged to you for having written so
fully about that most sad and cruel murder. How
soon the troubles which I predicted have come to
pass ! I did not know Tristan, but I have heard him
spoken of as a most devoted servant and trusty adviser.
The Prince's enemies must, I cannot but fear,
feel a wicked joy that he has been deprived of so
valuable a help, for, so far as I could see, it was always
their purpose to isolate him. My father says these area
girl's foolish fancies, and I think I ought to tell you
this, for my father, with his long diplomatic experience,
knows the ways of the world better than I do. He
says this is not an age of Machiavellian statecraft, and
he takes the common view of Prince Frederick as
being a fanciful and tiresome young man. You must
by this time be able to judge of this for yourself, and
I can only hope that your opinions will coincide with
my father's rather than with mine. I should be happy
indeed to believe that men no longer hatch unscrupulous

plots for political objects, and that my suspicions
to the contrary are — what my father declares them to
be — a girl's romantic delusions. Some kind friend
keeps sending us the Badstadt Gazette which has been
taking such liberties with my name. I see the number
which has arrived this morning tries to make it
appear that no other save the Prince himself could
have murdered Tristan. How odious this is ! What
words are strong enough to stigmatise the sinfulness
of men who can write such things ? Would you mind
telling me confidentially if it be true that the Prince is

courting Princess Blanche of ? One of the

Society papers in London reports a rumour to this
effect, and I most devoutly hope it is the case that
he has bestowed his affections so worthily. I told you,
and I repeat it, that there are noble points in his
character, and it rejoices me to infer from your letter
that you do not intend flinching in your services towards
him, trying as these services must be under the
present distressing circumstances. My father trusts you
will call on us when you next come to London. — Believe
me, very truly yours, Isabel Meadowes.

Prince Frederick, who did not read the
Badstadt Gazette, was ignorant of a great
deal that was said about him out-of-doors.

He showed a deep affliction at Tristan's
death. He put on mourning, and gave
orders that a black marble monument
should be erected over his foster-brother's
grave, with sculptured reliefs representing
the murder and my ride through the wood
with the corpse in my arms. The best
sculptor in the kingdom was entrusted with
this work, and came several times to Grains
with designs. I had to give him two
sittings ; and Harold Crowe made sketches
for him with Tristan's portrait and mine —
both very well done. The Prince himself
wrote this inscription for the monument —

Tristan Hardmuth,

The dearly loved foster-brother, friend, and guard of

Prince Frederick of Kronheim,

Foully murdered on the 20th June 188-.

He waits for the day when ' things long hidden shall

be revealed.'

'Vengeance is mine,' saith the Lord.

VOL. I 15

Except when conferring with me about
this monument, or when giving me instructions
about my secretarial work, the Prince
during several days hardly saw me. He
shut himself up, wrote much, and took solitary
rambles over the island, looking always
unutterably dejected. I think he fretted at
the thought that the Princess Blanche's
name was now being bandied from mouth
to mouth ; but in this his fears were exaggerated.
The German papers made but
timid references to the love story ; and
even the Badstadt Gazette was cautious
in its remarks, and rather strove to throw
doubt upon the romance — another proof
that this journal was informed from a
knowing source.

In the meanwhile Harold Crowe and
Sonnenthal both left the palace. Harold
felt he could not decently prolong his visit

in a house of mourning, and went away
after making a most creditable set of peasant
sketches, which he intended to convert
into oil pictures as a present for his host.
Sonnenthal, who found life intolerable
without cards, took the excuse that his
three months' duty as aide-de-camp had
expired, and he was succeeded by a
brother cavalry officer. Count Sigismund
von Stolz, one of the most empty-headed
and punctiliously polite men I have ever
met.

It thus befell that I was thrown again
on my own resources ; but no longer in
idleness, for I had a great deal of work todo.
I became almost the only medium of
intercourse between the Prince and his
household ; the duties which had been
Tristan's gradually devolving upon me in
addition to those which had been Dr.

Grinzener's. This was exceedingly troublesome.
The Greek and Montenegrin servants
were an ill-conditioned set of men,
who evinced no inclination to obey me.
Tristan must have governed them with
a hand of iron ; to me they were almost
unmanageable. When it did not suit them
to understand me they pretended not to
know German. I fastened upon one
man who was captain of the gig, a certain
Bojo Klephtovitch, and him I made responsible
for the execution of my orders.
He was a fellow with a face like brown
leather and an evil scowl. He disliked
me from the first as much as I disliked
him ; and once or twice I caught him
wilfully ignoring orders which I had given.
I must say, however, that the first time
I spoke to the Prince about my difficulties,
he caught up his hat at once, summoned

all the out-door servants, and harangued
them in set terms. Although a kind
master, Prince Frederick brooked neither
familiarity nor slovenly service, and still
less disobedience, from the domestics on
his private estate ; nor did he, as some
masters do, think any matter of household
discipline beneath his notice if his attention
were seriously called to it. Whether there
were mischief in the kitchen or in the
stables, he would repair promptly to the
scene of disorder, and he left delinquents
no choice between immediate insulting
submission or instantaneous dismissal.
The pity was that he always spoke too
angrily, and remembering how his peremptory
commands must have stung when
repeated in Tristan's less polished language,
I understood how detested this confidential
servant must have been. A creeping

suspicion came over me that Bojo Kleph-
twitch perhaps knew more of the murder
than he chose to say, and I kept an eye on
this man.

Doubtful, nevertheless, as to whether
the lurking assassin had not meant to kill
Prince Frederick, I paid close attention to
the guarding of the palace and island day
and night. At all hours of the night I
went rounds of inspection accompanied by
Joe Trotman, who carried a lantern (and
who became an object of hatred equally
with me), and by Hacko, Tristan's dog.
I had always a loaded revolver in my
pocket, and many a time I regretted that
I had despised Dr. Grinzener's warning by
going out unarmed on the day of my
excursion with the Prince. It tormented
me to reflect that if I had been armed
with a revolver I might have made an

attempt to follow the murderer and might
have got a shot at him.

Poor Hacko took kindly to me. He
was not a dog of the first order of intelligence,
and after a few days of uneasy
sniffing and casual howling, gave up
wondering why his master had disappeared.
Not so with the lion, who had been
Tristanss pet. There was a servant to
feed him and the lioness, but day after day
the lion watched couchant for Tristan's
coming, and every time the door of the
circus opened he sprang to his feet with
mane erect and eyes staring. The noble
brute was not to be consoled. He rejected
my advances with dignified silence, and
when alone emitted sullen moans. The
lioness, who, after the manner of the exemplary
members of her sex, concentrated
her affections in the domestic circle, licked

her lord's ears with sympathy from time to
time ; but at dinner ate up a large portion
of his untasted meat with her own ; and at
night she roared loud enough for the pair
of them. So in one way and another the
days passed, and in the enjoyment of the
ever - bewitching scenery and the home
comforts of Grlinsee I might have lived
content with my strange lot, had not the
Princess Dorothea taken it into her little
head to make large demands on my time.
These demands grew, for the lady was
whimsical and exacting, till at last, faute de
mieux, I suppose, I was singled out for a
pronounced flirtation on her Royal Highness's
part.

I approach this chapter with diffidence,
for the whims of a royal princess are not
things to be trifled with.

The Princess Dot had no notion of a life
without love, nor of love without pleasures
innocent pleasures of course.

She had always to be sighing for somebody,
with pretty lip-sighs which did not
come up very deep from the heart, but
which made her vastly interesting to her
ladies — at least so she fancied — and lent a
zest to her thoughts about herself.

Her Grand-duke and her Archduke
having proved unfaithful, she had dismissed
them from her mind along with the
religious tenets which she had been nearly

espousing for their sakes. Neither of
them had produced an impression deep
enough to spoil a night's rest. The
religious teaching which they had been
indirectly the means of conveying had
possibly left more lasting memories ; but
these had been folded up for the present,
like fine linen in lavender, to be used again
if occasion should require.

The Princess Dot had come to Griinsee
intending to amuse herself during a couple
of summer months by organising /^/^^, and
inviting the nobility and gentry of the
neighbourhood to them. She had done
this for two or three years ; and these
festivities, in which she always played the
leading feminine part, pleased her well.
But Tristanss death and the consequent
mourning condemned us all to solitude ;
the Princess Dot felt as though there

were too many hours per diem on the dial
plate of the clock. Her companions,
the Countess Marchfeld and the Baroness
Schnupff, were not recreative. She had a
chaplain of whom more anon. He was
the Lutheran clergyman whom I had seen
with her in the garden of the winter
palace, a Dr. Ochsmunder, founder of the
sect of Philaletheans or Lovers of Truth ;
but the exhortations of this good man only
sufficed for her occasional entertainment.
So it was that, casting about for new
diversions, she found me.

I was called to translate a passage
from a volume of Scotch sermons for her —
that was how it began. After this I met
her every day in the garden ; and if I was
not in the way when wanted, she coolly
sent for me. The old Countess sat by
and worked at a never-ending piece of

tapestry, the Baroness Schnupff read an
ever - abounding collection of dry books.
The Princess Dot, habited in some bright
costume, renewed almost every day, went
chatting and chirruping like a bird of
paradise, and seldom drew her ladies into
the conversation, save when she turned to
them for smiling assent to remarks which
they had not heard. There was always a
delightful assumption on the Princess
Dot's part that she could condescend to
any familiarity with me, as, being not even
a baron, I hardly counted in the scale of
created things. ' Man fa7igt von dei
Baronet an,' said a Prince Windischgratz,
and this was precisely Princess Dot's
opinion. I made myself agreeable, however,
and we soon became intimate. She
told me of her likes and dislikes, and regaled
me with the sort of Court news

which had an especial savour for her —
why the King of Wartburg would not
stand sponsor to the King of Kalksburg's
baby ; how the Grand-duke Rothbart was
furious that the Czar had not worn the
proper pantaloons of the Zuydersee Hussar
regiment of which he had been appointed
honorary colonel ; how sweet it
was of Queen Brunhilda to take a pinch of
snuff every morning in her breakfast &gg
as a penance for having laughed when she
heard the Pope sneeze. Princess Dot had
gossip of this description by the yard, and
when she was tired of rolling it out like a
telegraph tape, she sometimes clapped her
hands for a change and plied me with
questions. Then dialogues on this model
would ensue —

Now let's have a game of '' favourites."
Tell me your favourite colour.'

That depends : a blue sky is all right,
but a blue nose '

Or a blue stocking, eh ? What a
funny man you are ! Do you like women's
books ? Have you ever known a lady
writer with ink-smudges on her fingers ?
Who is your favourite author ? '

The same rule applies as to colour.
But the man who signs the banknotes is
always pleasant to read.'

What has he written ? I don't understand,'
she replied naively.

I promise to pay — nothing else ; but
it's good style, and the public are always
calling for more editions.'

People are very mercenary,' said the

Princess Dot wisely. ' Now, I never

touch a banknote, and I should be quite

content to live in a village without a

penning in the world. I should go about

the country with a tambourine, my dog
Sultan, and a white monkey. What is
your ideal of happiness ? '

To follow your Highness and make
chums with the monkey

And your idea of perfect wretchedness
? '

To be suddenly packed off without
knowing how I had offended either of
you.'

She laughed and seemed pleased ; for
she fished for compliments with the most
artless bait imaginable. Sometimes Count
Stolz joined us, but she looked upon him
as an intruder, pulled faces behind his
back, or mimicked him by strutting with
both arms to her sides in an affected
military swagger. Stolz was a magnificent
soldier, whose photograph might
have served on the advertisement of an

elixir for making the beard grow ; for he
had a beard falling to his chest. He could
sit for hours in silence thinking absolutely
of nothing ; but he had an automatic manner
of springing to his feet and making
elaborate bows to persons whose position
entitled them to such courtesies. Every
time we met he performed his salaams as
though we were entire strangers.

Dr. Justus Ochsmunder would also come
out now and then to enjoy the cool of the
evening. He was a large man, with a
beard like Stolz's, but white. He wore a
wide awake, without the customary band,
and his coat was exempt from the two
buttons which tailors sew at the back of
the waist. These are small matters ; but
as founder of the sect of Philaletheans, Dr.
Ochsmunder would be a party to no deception.
What is the use of buttons that are

not meant for buttoning, and why should a
hat sport a superfluous band ?

The first time that I met Dr. Ochs-
under and said, ' How do you do ? ' he
answered calmly —

I have sometimes a pain in my left
leg ; in the hot weather my hands are
often prickly ; my doctor says there is too
much fat in my body — that is the state of
my health.'

Dr. Ochsmunder speaks nothing but
truth,' tittered the Princess. ' He would
rather be hanged than pay a false compliment.
Wouldn't you. Doctor ? '

I could not be hanged for such a
matter,' declared the Doctor simply.

But suppose I were a queen absolute,
and had you taken to the foot of the gallows,
and said, Swear I'm an angel, or

they'll put a rope round your neck.'
VOL. I 16

If you were a queen absolute it would
be my duty to obey you,' answered
Ochsmunder ; ' but the words which
you would put into my mouth would be
yours, not mine : so there would be
no lie.'

Then you don't think me an angel ? '

No.'

How refreshing it is to hear a man
speak out the truth like that,' exclaimed
the little Princess. ' I declare I quite love
you for your courage. Dr. Ochsmunder,
and you mustn't think that I am ever the
least bit offended when you say such
things.'

Everybody has heard of the sect of
Philaletheans, and how there are two
parties in that Association of fearless
people. The Radical Philaletheans assert
that the whole truth must be told, the

Conservatives allow that part of it may be
kept back. For instance, is a man bound
to say that he thinks another a fool ? The
Radicals vow that he is ; the Conservatives
hold that there are means of conveying
the idea without words. Dr. Ochsmunder,
wavering between the two factions, was
trying to steer a middle course. He
practised unlimited veracity towards his
inferiors, but bridled his tongue at
Court.

Dr. Ochsmunder was guiding Princess
Dot along the paths of the Lutheran
faith in case she should be next wooed by
a Protestant prince. One afternoon, as he
and Stolz were walking to and fro out of
earshot, she said to me rather too low for
her ladies to hear —

You have heard me speak of the
Grand-duke Rothbart. There is a project

for marrying me to him. Do you feel
jealous?'

Yes.'

But what do you mean by that ?
Would you lose your luncheon if I married
Duke Rothbart ? You see I have a hard
and fast rule for deciding how precious
people are to one another. There is one
loved person in the world for whose sake
we live, and if that one person be removed,
all the world becomes dark, and we can
neither eat, drink, sleep, nor feel awake.
But all the other people on the earth
might be tied together by the neck and
thrown into the sea, and we should feel
hungry at the usual hour just the same.'

This was a poser, but it had to be faced.
I should certainly lose my luncheon.
Princess, if you were thrown into the
sea.'

Take care, you are saying a great deal.'

I think I could say more, though, for
I'd wish Duke Rothbart in the sea.'

And me on dry land ? '

And you on a hill ever so high above
the sea level.'

She began tripping about, sang tra lala,
and approaching her macaw, who had
been brought out to take the fresh air,
poked a finger near his beak. The parrot
pecked, and Princess Dot ran towards me
with a little shriek.

'Oh, the naughty bird, he has bitten
me ! See my finger !'

The finger which she held up to me
had just one drop of blood, which looked
as if it had been caused by a needle-prick,
but I professed deferential sympathy, and
staunched the wound with her handkerchief,
she trembling the while.

Oh, don't you think it may be
poisoned ? Ought not the wound to be
sucked ? I am so afraid to do it myself.'

The hint was broad enough, and I
lifted the finger to my lips, upon which a
shiver thrilled over her, and she fell into
my arms with a well-simulated fainting
fit.

Of course the ladies with Dr. Ochs-
under and Stolz had bustled forward,
and we half carried the Princess to a
bench, but she revived almost immediately,
shed a tear or two, laughed, and said
languidly —

I feel better now. Don't kill the poor
bird. I wouldn't for the world that anything
were hurt for my sake. Thank you
all so much ; and you, Captain Meredith, I
can never forget your devotion. Did you
see what he did, Dr. Ochsmunder ? he

was ready at once to jump into the fire
for me.'

There was no fire, ' said the downright
Doctor.

But if there had been one he would
have jumped,' exclaimed the Princess with
a stamp of her foot. ' I cannot bear you,
Doctor, when you throw doubt on people's
devotion. I verily believe now that if I
were in a fire you would let me burn.'

No, I should try to pull you out.'

'Who cares about being pulled out?'
exclaimed Princess Dot with a pout. ' I
like people to leap into the frames, and off
towers, and into cataracts. Fancy being
hauled out of danger by a long ugly pole
with claws at the end like an iron spider's
legs. I would rather die.'

You wouldn't say so if it came to the
point,' insisted Dr. Ochsmunder.

Yes I would,' cried the Princess, with
her look of droll dignity; ' and I forbid you
ever to come near me with a long pole.
Dr. Ochsmunder. I won't have it, and it's
most unkind of you to suggest such a thing.'

The day after this we had a water-party
to Rose Island in the Prince's gig. Stolz
and the Doctor were invited, but sat in the
bows, whilst I had a place in the stern
beside the Princess. She exchanged
glances with me behind her fan, and
mocked at the Baroness Schnupff, who
held on tight to the rail and looked as if
she were going to be sea-sick. She beat
down her skirt that I might sit close to
her, and she gave me a water lily for my
buttonhole. It was all very nice.

Can you swim ?' she asked, as the eight
oars pulled the boat swiftly through the
green water.

Yes ; ' and I was afraid that she was
going to throw herself overboard to test
my prowess. She did look very curiously
at the water more than once ; but her eyes
roved to the boathook with the iron claws,
and perhaps this made her change her
mind.

'It's a pity lilies fade she said, as we
wandered over Rose Island.

That won't prevent my keeping this
one,' I answered, pretending to kiss the
large flower in my coat.

Won't it ? ' she murmured, and became
pensive. Our eyes met ; she blushed, and
hardly spoke all the way home.

Our next outing: was on horseback.
Stolz, the Baroness Schnupff, and two
grooms completed our party. The poor
Baroness sat on her saddle like a bag of
nails, and she soon dropped behind with

her cavalier, while the Princess Dot and
I galloped on in front. The Princess
looked uncommonly well in her silver-gray
habit, and rode with capital pluck. She
had a beautiful white mare with pink
nostrils and hoofs ; and, little slip of a
thing as she was, she let the animal goat
full pace, enjoying the light wind
which blew on her face and obliged her
often to bend her head to keep her hat
on. All the way she chattered and tittered
incessantly.

We rode to the scene of Tristan's
murder. The Princess seldom spoke of
that event now, but she appeared to have
a purpose in coming here. She made me
repeat all the incidents of the adventure,
and we rode slowly down the avenue where
Tristan had fallen.

And so you caught him up in your

arms like a child,' she exclaimed impetuously.
' Ah ! f adore les hommes braves ! '
We were quite alone, having left our
escort a good mile behind. We passed
into a clearance where there was turf underfoot,
and overhead such a canopy of interlaced
branches and leaves as allowed only
a dim light to penetrate as in a church.

The white mare arched her neck,
pawed the grass gently, and the Princess
stooped to pat her neck. Of a sudden she
said, turning her face away from me —

How many quarterings of nobility have
you. Captain Meredith ? '

Not one, I am sorry to say.'

Are you really sorry ? Should you
like to become a count '^ '

I see little prospect of it, madam.'

I think I could get you created a
count,' she resumed, speaking quickly. ' If

I asked the King he could not refuse. I
speak like this because — because I am a
princess and may do so. If you were a
prince I should have had to wait till you
had spoken ; but I know there are things
which you would not venture to say tome.'


Her face was like a blush rose now,
and her words came fast. Instinctively I
pressed my horse a step nearer to hers,
and she let a hand droop on her saddle
for me to take.

'Well, Captain Meredith, if you are
good to me — ever so good — why, I'll
marry you. But you know it can only bea
morganatic marriage.'

There was a clatter of hoofs, and the
Baroness Schnupff was borne on the scene
gasping, her hat off, her hair down her
back, and her cheeks like beefsteaks. Stolz

followed in good order, his shoulders
square, his countenance a perfect blank.

Hush ! ' whispered the Princess Dot,
laying a finger on her lips and suddenly
recovering a very pretty composure. ' Nota
word of this, sir. It's a State secret ! '

It had taken nearly a month to bring
matters to this pass.

During that time I had not been unmindful
of Connie Davenant in England.
How could I forget my first love ? Despite
Mrs. Davenant's prohibition I had written
to Connie several times, and had asked
one of my married cousins, a discreet and
obliging little woman, to convey these
missives privately. But I received no
answers, nor any verbal message encouraging
me to write further ; and at last I
got back all my letters together unopened,

with a note from my cousin saying that
Connie had promised her mother faithfully
that she would carry on no correspondence
with me. The next thing I heard was
that Connie was engaged to be married to
Mr. Lemesurier, the M.P. with the red
tie and white hat.

Connie's silence had often made me very
unhappy, and her infidelity rendered me
furious— though not so much against her
as against the world in general. I knew
that the poor child must have been teased
into the marriage. Mammas with many
children to provide for are not tender
when they find a little bit of romance
standing in the way of a match which can
advance the affairs of a whole family. The
firm maternal hand pulls up these romances
like weeds ; and the better the Q-'irl, the
less she can find to say for herself. Poor

little Connie was just one of those girls
who would feel bound to listen to her
father and mother rather than to a
lover — an absent lover too — whom to
love was selfish, and, being selfish,
wicked.

But Connie was lost to me several
days before the Princess Dot offered to
msLvry me in the unconventional manner
just described, and I did not therefore
treat this flattering proposal as I must
have done had it come a few days
earlier.

I was not in love with the Princess
Dot, but I had got to like her, and was
disposed to consider seriously whether she
would not make an acceptable wife. Vagabond
as I was, what was there to prevent
my accepting the offer ? The slight intoxication
which must be produced in any

man by the conquest of a princess perhaps
entered into my feelings ; and then the
entire reversal of the positions commonly
occupied by the man and the girl In such
affairs lent a piquancy to the adventure.
The Princess Dot was intimately persuaded
that she was doing me a great
honour, and she felt very good — though
with occasional misgivings of conscience
and alarms at her own boldness — in being
so condescending. I suppose that the idea
of my refusing her offer never entered her
head.

Our engagement was to be secret, and
all the negotiations which it necessitated
were to be carried out by the Princess,
I being powerless in the matter. She
played her part of mystery fairly well,
but with not more of the talent for dissemblance
than all her sex have : in fact

VOL. I 17

princesses, who are accustomed to see all
their whims gratified, do not excel in the
concealment of their emotions.

Our relations remained outwardly unaltered.
I approached her with the usual
formalities ; and she tried to throw a spice
of indifference into her manner of addressing
me. But she was quick to watch the
effect which her words produced ; she was
always throwing unobserved glances at
me, and she would linger in doorways,
embrasures, and secluded plantations so
that we might be just for a moment alone
while I squeezed her hand and kissed it.
The first time that I could safely do it, I
caught her in my arms and kissed her on
the lips. ' Oh ! ' she exclaimed, and disengaged
herself crimsoning ; but she did
not so contrive that I should have no
other opportunities of repeating my caress.

And I VOW it was very pleasant to kiss her,
to feel her little arms clinging to me, and
to see the genuine impulses of girlhood
break, butterfly-like, from the chrysalis of
princess-ship and etiquette.

I doubt whether the Countess von
Marchfeld and the Baroness von Schnupff
were our dupes. Ladies have a deep
penetration in love affairs, and a sign by
which the Princess betrayed herself was,
that she talked too much about me when
I was not present. Prince Frederick
noticed this, and said to me one day :
You seem to have quite turned my sister's
head ; ' but he was miles from imagining
that he spoke the truth, and I had sufficient
command over my features not to
excite his suspicions.

The Princess was now trying to coax
away her brother from his solitary writing,

for she was afraid to make a confidant of
him while he was so self-absorbed. The
two were very good friends. The Princess
had been from the first in the secret
of his suit with the Princess Blanche,
and she had backed him up staunchly.
She was convinced, she told me, that
he would become our ally ; but she
must watch a favourable opportunity for
speaking.

The Princess succeeded so far that
Prince Frederick consented that there should
be a family dinner - table every evening,
and he took the head of it. He was frequently
in low spirits, but had bright days ;
for he was much interested in his book,
and talked of the effect which would be
caused by its publication. Being rather
uneasy about this book, I was very glad
when he promised that it should not go

into a publisher's hands before he had read
it to me, and taken what he called my
frank opinion.'

Pending this time, the daily dinner-party
and the evenings en famille gave
the Princess and me countless occasions
for revelling in each other's society. There
were games at cards, billiards, the turning
over of albums, the sitting out on the
terrace to take coffee and admire the sunsets,
and then the strolls in the garden
after dark, when wraps had to be fetched
and placed round her shoulders. Consultations
about her pet animals, pretences
at taking lessons in English, the singing
of duets (the Princess sang frolicsomely
and with an exclusive partiality for comic
songs), — all these pastimes brought us
side by side and justified any amount of
intimacy, chattering, and laughter. But

the Princess liked billiards most, for nobody
save myself played the game, and
with the doors leading into the drawing-room
wide open, we were quite by ourselves
while the Countess worked, the
Baroness read. Dr. Ochsmunder napped,
and Count von Stolz sauntered about
without an idea or a word.

The Princess's love grew and mine was
kindling. But as she had been certain
from the first that I was deeply enamoured,
she misunderstood the change
that was coming over me, and began to
have jealous fits at the very moment when
she had least cause for jealousy.

Ferdinand, you are thinking of somebody
else but me,' she would say when she
saw my eyes wander.

No, you are always in my thoughts.'

Look into my face and swear that.'

Or she would assume the expression of
a pugnacious baby and try sarcasm.

So, so, my lord and master was
glum at dinner to-day. I must have become
a very unsightly object that he
couldn't spare a look for my side of the
table, but must needs keep talking with
the Baroness von Schnupff. Perhaps he
was fascinated with the Baroness's long
nose. Hee, hee ; well, my lord, Ici gras
! '

One afternoon the Princess asked me
to go for a walk with her and the Baroness.
We crossed over to the near shore of the
lake, and sauntered over a mile or two of
the valley, till we came to the Swan Inn.
The Princess was in the most blithesome
mood, and the poor Baroness had got the
hiccough from stifling mirth at her
pleasantries.

We must get you a glass of water,'
tittered the Princess. ' Oh ! we'll turn
into the "Swan," Captain Meredith. I'll
show you my old friend Andreas Hieland
his pretty daughter Lisbeth — she's a
beauty if you like. How do you do,
Andreas — where's Lisbeth ? We're dying
for something to drink in this hot weather.
Bring us some beer, quite cold, you know,
in large chopped with nice white heads.'

Andreas Riedl, who had been smoking
his pipe in the doorway, took off his hat
and bowed almost to the ground at the
honour the Princess was doing him. We
walked into the public room, which happened
to be empty (it was the same where
Tristan had been laid), and Lisbeth Riedl
came forward, curtsied humbly to the
Princess, and kissed her hand.

Well, what do you think of her ? '

asked Princess Dot, with a patronising
smile at the girl and a narrow look at me.

Lisbeth had been Sonnenthal's flame.
She was a fine fair-faced wench, with her
hair plaited in two long tails, German
fashion.

pretty well,' I answered indifferently
in English, but a few minutes later, looking
out of the window, I descried in a field
Frida Sliss, the goose-girl, whose portrait
Harold Crowe had painted, and I was
foolish enough to exclaim, ' There, Princess,
I call that a good-looking girl'

Where ? which ? ' ejaculated the Princess,
starting up so abruptly that she overturned
the Baroness Schnupffs tankard of
beer. ' What ! that drab of a thing with
bare legs and a torn petticoat ? Well, I
never heard anything like it ! Oh dear
me ! a common goose-girl too ! '

Well, she is only a beauty as goose-girls
go,' I said, perceiving my mistake.
Harold Crowe painted a nice picture of
her.'

Did he indeed, sir ? Well, I am sorry
that he should have so demeaned himself,'
declared the Princess, mightily offended.
So your taste runs on goose-girls, does it ?
Oh well, it s all the same to me. Go and
court your goose-girl ; but it's lucky I've
found it out in time.'

My taste doesn't run on goose-girls.
Don't be absurd ! ' I whispered, approaching
her. But she turned, looked at me
from head to foot, tried to swallow her
beer, and nearly choked in the effort ; then
marched out, followed by the perplexed
Bettina.'

She was not to be appeased all the way
home. She would take no notice of me.

but talked outrageously about goose-girls
to the Baroness Schnupff and indulged in
hysterical laughing. If the Baroness
never suspected anything before, she must
have discovered then that there was something
between us. As for me, being angry
with myself and with Dot I of course
affected to be cool and jolly — for which
aggravation of offence any girl, be she
the mildest, always feels inclined to flay a
man.

I think that when the Princess Dot
got home she had a good cry, which refreshed
her. When we met at dinner she
was herself again. She had put on the
dress in which I thought she looked best,
and glancing slyly at me under her eyelashes
broke out laughing. After dinner
she was wild as a mocking-bird and in a
humour for teasing. ' I am going to sing

you a song about your goose-girl,' she
said. 'It's a Students Lied (Student
Song) composed by some of those gentlemen
from the University who hold their
summer knees at the '* Swan." I found
it among my music'

She sat down and rattled off this
ditty. The English translation is Harold
Crowe's : —

Friday

Frida the fresh was the pride of her geese,

Till one day, racing after the flock,
She seized on the fattest, unheeding his frowns,

And rolled him up quick in her frock.

There were tears in her eyes as she kissed that goose.

And she cried, ' It's a singular point.
But I've thought day and night, oh, you love of a bird !

That you'd make a delectable joint.'

That goose was a bird of the most open mind.
Who called every wise man a brother ;

But his breast and his thighs were sacred to him
As presents that came from his mother.

So he shook himself free with a hiss at the maid,

Whose embrace was that of duplicity ;
And, with his best feathered quill, strode off, as he said,

To give his shocked feelings publicity.

The song ended in a bravura which
made even Stolz merry. The Princess,
however, watching me, fancied perhaps that
I was hurt at her treatment of me in the
afternoon ; so presently in the bilHard-
room she came creeping up to me and
said —

sis it all over between you and the
goose-girl ? '

All over.'

Then why are you so serious ? Are
you beginning to be impatient ? But you
know you mustn't be impatient. We can't
be married without ever so much fuss,

which makes my head ache to think of.
You've no idea of the Httle packets of
arguments that I am making up ready for
different people. Then there will be the
stamping, the screaming, crying, and fainting
fits. I've got all that to go through,
you know.'

Well, and when will it begin ? '

'Ah! that's just like a man. Well, Til
do something tomorrow,' she answered
rather seriously. ' I'll speak to my brother.
He's been in a good humour for two
days.'

But supposing Prince Frederick should
object, and others should object ? *

I am a Princess of the Blood Royal, sir,
and mean to have my own way.'

You do, in sober earnest ? But if the
King puts his veto ? '

Then I'll run away with you, Ferdinand.

Will you take me on your horse
and gallop right away with me in the
night, no matter where ? Oh ! I'm quite
serious and reasonable, and I never, never
give in to anybody.'

I shall be more hopeful now, Dorothea,'
I replied, as she laid her head on my
shoulder and gave a poke at the billiard-balls
to make the persons in the next room
think we were playing. ' But tell me one
thing about these morganatic marriages,
for I don't understand them. Does it mean
that being married to me with the left hand
you will be allowed to take another husband
with the right ? '

How ridiculous you are ! ' she laughed.
I shall be your own, your very own ; will
that satisfy you ? Only you know I shall
keep my rank ; and perhaps at State dinners
I shall sit at the head of the table, and

you at the bottom. But you won't mind
that ? '

I needn't go to State dinners.'

Oh ! but you must, if I wish it ; and —
and perhaps the sentries will salute me and
not you.'

I think I can survive that.'

And there's another thing. The kings
and princes will keep on calling me
"Cousin," and kissing me, but that's a
mere form and doesn't signify. You won't
have the right to kiss their wives.'

I believe the Princess was quite minded
to speak with her brother on the morrow,
but something occurred to prevent it. The
startling news arrived that the Grand-duke
Rothbart of Weniggeld was coming to the
palace to urge his suit in due form for
Princess Dorothea's hand. He announced
a fortnight's visit, which meant a siege en

regie. At luncheon the Princess was full
of the news, and so soon as she could draw
me aside, she executed a little dance and
evinced childish glee.

You'll see what fun we shall have with
him,' she cried. 'Oh! it will be better
than a play.'

I don't quite see the fun,' I answered,
wishing Duke Rothbart in mid-ocean.

But you must look on and enjoy the
sport. The Grand-duke is the most ludicrous
little creature you can perceive. He
has red moustaches a yard long, and walks
on the tips of his boots to make himself
look bigger, till he sometimes overbalances
himself. You will see how prettily I shall
pack him off.'

But wouldn't it be simpler not to let

him come ? '

Oh no, he must come. You see, I must
VOL. I 18

have the chance of openly refusing a
good offer. No girl can withstand that
pleasure. Besides, it will help on our
affairs, sir ; so don't look gloomy. Leave
it all to me.'

No sooner had his Serene Highness, the
reigning Grand-duke of Weniggeld, signified
his gracious intention of visiting
Prince Frederick and Princess Dorothea,
than their Royal Highnesses Prince Wolfgang
of Kronhelm and his wife the Princess
Ursula, King Franz's daughter, formed a
similar purpose.

There was consequently a grand sweeping
up and down of the palace. Armies
of housemaids went about with mops and
clean bedroom curtains. I was relegated to
an attic, for all the best apartments in the

palace were wanted for the Royal and Serene
guests and their suites. Princess Dot discovered
that she had nothing fit to wear,
and started for Sabelburg with her ladies
to meet a dressmaker who had been
telegraphed for from Paris, and who
was ordered to prepare a trifle of twenty-four
costumes to be ready within ten
days.

Prince Wolfgang's visit was a surprise.
Whether it was that Prince Frederick's
outburst of plain-speaking in the King's
presence had frightened the Court ; or
whether it was that Prince Wolfgang
wished to dissociate himself ostensibly
from the intrigues which were being
carried on in his interest ; or whether
again the Court had decided to show
the world that affectionate family endeavours
were being made to reclaim Prince

Frederick ; certain it is that the utmost publicity
was given to Prince Wolfgang's visit.
Prince Frederick was evidently gratified,
and resolved to receive his guests in the
most hospitable style. The entire household
of the winter palace were summoned
from the capital with their gala liveries.
Footmen began to swarm around, and
the kitchen regions resounded like a monkey
house with the chattering of French
cooks. A pyrotechnician also came down
to arrange for a Venetian night fete with
illuminations and fireworks.

On one point, however, Prince Frederick
was inexorable : he would not allow a
military uniform to be worn during the
visits. This matter had to be settled by
chamberlains, and formed the theme fora
regular negotiation not exempt from
difficulties.

To me the Prince frankly explained his
ideas.

Clergymen and lawyers don't parade
about in their gowns, and schoolmasters
don't wear canes strapped to their waists.
I think it s absurd for gentlemen to dress
themselves up with carving-knives as if
they were always going to kill somebody.
Besides, these uniforms are fatal to conversation.
The man with two stars on
his collar aren't argue with the man who
has three stars, and the man with the
three stars is down on all fours before
the man with the gold or silver collar.
i\s for the man with the gold collar, he
doesn't converse : he simply pontifex, emits
oracles, and makes your jaws ache from
trying to stop yawns.'

Those, however, who know how utterly
unclassified a German officer of rank feels

when he has to put himself into civilian
garb, will understand what a remarkable
appearance our visitors presented on the
first day of their muster. Such a collection
of bell-mouthed pantaloons and creased
frock coats would have brought all the cutters
in Savile Row on to the pavement to
stare. Every man seemed to have cased
himself in a brand new shirt one size too
small at the collar, and had smothered his
hands in dogskins a size too large. Left
hands fumbled mechanically at the hips
for missing sword-hilts ; and silk hats,
treated like helmets, in being carried under
the arm, resented this usage by bristling
up in the nap. When evening dress was
put on the spectacle was no less astonishing.
Every shirt front bulged, or had
kinks, or showed signs of a struggle at
the buttonholes, where big studs had been

jammed through by main force ; and the
bow of almost every white tie was writhing
up towards the wearer's left ear.

The Grand-duke Rothbart was especially
one of those men who are best contemplated
in uniform. He was a little imp
of a potentate about five foot four in height,
with a fierce carroty moustache, and hair
clipped short and standing upright over
his bullet head like a gooseberry's. His
face was purple, and his voice cracked
from bawling commands to his soldiers.
He strutted like a Dorking cock, but when
seen in a tight tunic, long spurs, and a
cocked hat, may have cut an imposing
figure.

His Serene Highness had the tactical
genius of Marshal von Moltke, as he could
prove by a letter in the Marshal's own
hand. Once he had sent the Marshal the

plan of a battle, and had received the complimentary
reply that it was the identical
plan of the battle of Sedan. Grand-duke
Rothbart was a boy when Sedan was
fought, so it became manifest that the plan
which he had worked out by his own inspiration
would have enabled him to win
the battle had he commanded in chief.
He was now for pulverising the French.
The army of Weniggeld, which formed
two battalions and a squadron of the united
German forces, was in the highest state of
efficiency, and always ready to march upon
France at three days' notice.

Prince Wolfgang was a tall and grave
young man, with a large family and not
too much money. King Franz was rich,
but indulged his daughter sparingly with
supplies, having a not unfounded idea that
if princes are to work they must be kept

on short commons. Prince Wolfgang had
taken to soldiering as the only pursuit
compatible with his means, and he was
really a good officer. His recreation was
to study surgery, and his ambition was to
qualify as an army surgeon. But this was
a secret. He was now practising operations
in private, and his friends hoped that
some day he would set the seal to his
popularity by cutting off a leg publicly ina
hospital amphitheatre, and tacking the
title of ' Doctor ' for evermore to his other
dignities.

His wife, the Princess Ursula, was a fat
and fair lady, who was born with a good
temper and some common sense, but
had got spoilt by a raging detestation
for her cousins, Frederick and Dorothea.
She hated them for their money and
for Frederick's priority to her in the

line of succession. Being the King's
daughter, she thought she had a right to
succeed to the throne, and had solicited
opinions favourable to her claims in the
abstract from the Queens of England,
Spain, and Madagascar. Armed with
these, she had asked Prince Bismarck
pointblank whether he could not prevail
on the Btindesrath (Council of the Empire)
to abrogate the ungallant Salic Law of
Kronheim.

Foiled in this by the Chancellor s heavy
Vein' the Princess Ursula had taken
refuge in ' German patriotism,' and set herself
to do the exact opposite of everything
that her cousins did. They adopted
French dresses, wines, and foreign servants ;
she would have none of these things. She
despised the French as the inventors of
fantastic soups. She would not wear, eat,

or drink anything French if she knew it.
Her dresses were made by Germans out
of German stuffs : she gave her guests beer,
Rhine wines, and native stews, which were
described on the ' bills of fare ' by their
proper German names. Such a thing as a
ment never entered her house. For all this
the Princess Ursula was much liked by the
impoverished aristocracy and the middle
classes of Kronheim, who held that she seta
truly noble example of decent economical
and dignified living. Mothers blessed her
for inviting their girls to appear at her
dances in plain white muslin and thread
gloves ; and it must be owned that her
outspoken partiality for officers who lived
on their pay and supped off cold sausage
had done not a little towards raising the
moral standard of the Kronheim army.
Unfortunately the Princess's digestion having

suffered somewhat from her patriotic
diet, she presented to me, when I saw her
waddle beside Princess Dot, the appearance
of a rather uncomfortable German
dame with a reddening nose.

I was quite lost in the throng of Equerries
and aides-de-camp who attended upon
the Princes, and I saw from the outset that
there would be little chance of my getting
a private word with my affianced bride so
long as the visits lasted. The princely
party and their ladies dined in a room by
themselves. The suites had their table
in an adjoining apartment, and I took the
bottom seat. Sonnenthal had returned on
duty, and we were by no means a dull
assemblage ; but after dinner, etiquette
obliged us to remain standing all the evening.
' Sit down when you can,' was the
advice once given by an old courtier to a

young one who had asked for some maxims
of conduct at Court.

I was presented to the Grand-duke
Rothbart on the terrace during coffee.
There was a broad yellow riband over his
waistcoat. Holding his coffee - cup and
sucking a fat cigar, he looked up at me as
at a lamp-post.

You have been an English officer ?
The English have no army. They have
good soldiers, but that is not enough.'

I bowed.

Give me a hundred thousand men and
I would land on any part of the English
coast,' continued his Serene Highness. ' I
would march straight upon London, and
there would be no resistance. But happily
we are allies.'

I trust England and Weniggeld may
always remain friends, sir,' was my answer.

Prince Wolfgang came up to me and
asked some sensible questions about our
English method of recruiting cavalry, then
lapsed into his favourite topic of surgery
and discussed wounds. He had the German
way of contradicting you flat when he
disagreed, but otherwise he was a pattern
of good manners.

His wife, the Princess Ursula, inquired
who I was, and then eyed me askance. I
overheard her remark to a general that the
English army only fought negroes, and
that British cavalry officers went into
action with bottles of soda-water and
brandy in their holsters.
I suspect that the Princess Ursula must
have heard on the very evening of her
arrival, through maid-servants, that there
was something between me and the
Princess Dot, for she scrutinised me more

closely than was required, and fixed a keen
eye on all the Princess's movements. The
Grand-duke Rothbart had drawn his chair
close to Princess Dot's, and was paying
his court to her by saying how he would
smash up the French whenever he met
them. She listened with the greatest
affectation of interest, clasping her jewelled
hands, giggling and sighing. At last
when the time came for the ladies to
retire she held out her hand to the Grand-duke,
who embraced It, after which she
danced up to Princess Ursula in a girlish
sort of way, and whispered something
which made the elder Princess endeavour
to look amiable and congratulatory.

All this was nothing to me, for I should
as soon have condescended to be jealous
of a jackanapes as of Grand-duke Roth-bart.
Besides, I had plenty to do in

providing amusements for the Princes
guests. We were in August, and the
shooting season had begun. Since Tristan's
death the head gamekeeper took his
orders from me ; and by the Prince's desire
I undertook to make up the shooting
parties.

VOL. I 19

We shot over the hills and woods on the
farther shore of the lake. Our keepers,
beaters, and loaders formed quite a host,
and the game was abundant. Hares were
especially plentiful. A common ' bag ' for
twenty guns would comprise 500 hares,
800 partridges and pheasants, and a score
of roebuck, besides a number of owls,
kites, foxes, and polecats.

I had to assign the places, and always
kept near Prince Frederick, taking what
game came to me with the rest. The
Prince was no more than a fair shot, and I

had to finish off a good many hares and
birds which he had merely winged. Prince
Wolfgang rarely missed. I saw him knock
over three hares which had started up
together : the first brace rolling over before
his two barrels, and the third being
hit, at a long shot, by the second gun,
which he took from his loader's hands.
The Grand-duke of Weniggeld was a
poor performer ; but he had an invariable
joke, which consisted in exclaiming when
he got an unstable shot, ' If that fellow
were only a Frenchman ! — bang, bang ! you
see he's got it.' His Serene Highness
always gave the supposed Frenchman the
benefit of both barrels, and most of his
birds were picked up in a state of hash.

We lunched under the trees, where
tables were spread for us, or in one of
the many shooting-lodges — pretty houses

with broad verandahs and antlered stags'
heads decorating all the walls. The ladies
joined us at lunch, and Princess Ursula
always testified her contempt, so far as
good breeding would allow, at the profusion
of cold viands and French wines.

No thank you, give me some mutton
stew, please,' she would say, rejecting
galantine and raised pies. There was
always some hot dish prepared by a
keeper's wife, and on this the Princess
fed, adding slabs of Emmenthaler cheese
and draughts of Bavarian beer.

The Grand-duke Rothbart did not disdain
Gallic pd^es and Burgundy, but as he
thought Burgundy and Champagne were
provinces which ought to belong to Germany,
and would be conquered by him some
day, he flattered himself that he was only
enjoying his own by drinking their wines.

Through a piece of customary sycophancy,
at which I connived, the head keeper
always creamed off a large percentage of
my ' bag ' and added it to the Grand-duke's,
so that his Serene Highness might be able
to cock his head at table when the scores
were read out. In this he never failed,
and the Princess Dot would chirp admiringly—


How beautifully your Highness shoots !
What sangfroid it must require to kill one
of those ugly foxes when he comes along,
gnashing his teeth. Oh, I know I should
run away and throw down my gun for him
to bite.'

The use of French terms plagued the
Princess Ursula extremely, so that one day
she inquired, with a forced smile, ' Is there
no German word for sangfroid, dearest
Dorothea ? '

I daresay there is, dearest Ursula,'
answered her cousin ; ' but I am so dtoitrdie.
I sometimes forget the German for partridge
from always meeting with the bird as
perdrix aux choiix. '

The mission of France is to cook for
Germany,' interposed Grand-duke Roth-bart
sententiously.

Give me my own people to cook forme,'
retorted the Princess Ursula indignantly,
mashing a potato with her fork.
I have read that during the siege of Paris
some French cooks dressed dogs so as to
taste like veal. Now I think that only
proves the natural deceitfulness of the
people. I trust no German will ever debase
himself to make a dog taste otherwise
than as dog.'

During the siege even the tough old
foxes of the Zoological Gardens must have

tasted like ambrosia,' opined the Grand-duke,
whom Burgundy was making decidedly
clever at repartee.

Half a dozen shooting excursions had
passed off without any incident when the
day for the Venetian night y^^^ arrived. It
was to be 2, fete indoors and out ; the island
to be lit up algiorno, and everybody to wear
masks and dominoes. For this entertainment
a great many guests were invited
from the capital, and came down in a
special train ; among them Harold Crowe
and Sir George Malmsey, who was attended
by a second Secretary of the Legation, Mr.
Mildmay Wilkinson.

Sir George was anxious to ascertain
from me how things were going on at the
palace. ' Confoundedly queer place, eh !
what ? Money chucked out in shovelfuls,
I suppose. No news of the murderer

yet ? Coming down in the train I bet
Milkinson a guinea to a baked apple that
this marriage between the Grand-duke
and the Princess Dorothea would never
come off. You see if Milkinson don't
have to pay me my baked apple.'

Mr. Milkinson was one of those young
diplomatists who, having lived abroad since
his moustaches began growing, had ceased
to belong to his native land without having
got acclimatised elsewhere. When he went
home on leave he always prophesied the
early annihilation of England by coalitions
of foreign fleets, and was shocked to find his
warnings received with unbecoming levity.
He could speak no German, and thought ita
hardship to be paid for living in a German
country (the Foreign Office had not yet
discovered a country which exactly pleased
him). Mr. Milkinson attempted to be affable

with all conditions of men ; but his life
was not without its severe trials, for English
merchants, inventors, widows, orphans, and
people of that kind, kept bringing complaints
to the Legation, and obliging
him to write letters — ' All of which is
Consular business, you know,' as he feelingly
explained in recounting his tribulations.
' It's desperate hard lines that
you can't get Englishmen to understand
what a Legation is.'

Harold Crowe felt an unkind antipathy
to Mr. Milkinson, and was for playing some
practical jokes on him, but I gave a more
useful direction to his energies by getting
him to help me in the preparations for the
night /SU — all the administrative business
of which fell to me.

The palace was now over full, and we
had to billet guests for the night in the

park lodges, at the Swan Inn, and in some
of the villas of the valley. An enormous
consignment of masks, dominoes, and black
wide-awakes had been sent from Labels
and a vestry had to be organised
where the visitors could go and choose
what fitted them. Refreshment tents were
meanwhile being erected in the park, and
innkeepers from the neighbourhood assembled
to take charge of them. Thus
Andreas Riedl came with his daughter
Lisbeth, and Frida Sliss, the pretty goose-girl,
to assist.

The launch was steaming to and fro
from the shore all the morning, and bringing
so many unknown faces to the island
that I did not like it at all. I knew, however,
that this Venetian fete had been
planned on purpose that the Princess Dot
might have an hour's unrestrained intercourse

with me. In the only five minutes
of privacy which she was able to snatch forme
during ten days, she had told me that
she would insist upon everybody's being
masked from nine o'clock till supper at
midnight, and that she herself would meet
me under a certain tree at ten o'clock,
wearing a domino with cherry-coloured
streamers on both shoulders.

Then we will have a talk, my Ferdinand,'
she added, letting me take both her
hands, 'for I love you as much as ever —
no, a thousand times more than ever.'

It was reassuring to hear that my
charmer's affection was undiminished,
though I have already confessed that I
was not modest enough to fear the Grand-duke
Rothbart as a rival ; but on the other
hand, I could not help fearing that there
might be danger to Prince Frederick in all

this masking. With so many strange people
about, what could be more easy than for
an assassin to approach him ? It seemed
ridiculous to take such minute precautions
as we did every day, and to throw these
all overboard for a whole evening.

A discovery which I made a few hours
before the masque began added considerably
to my apprehensions. I was now in
charge of the gun-room, and, thinking I
would make all safe in that quarter, I went
to remove the ammunition and look to the
fastenings of the doors.

As I was taking a survey of the racks,
my eye fell upon the swan-shot gun with
which Tristan had been killed. The place
where it used to stand had remained
vacant since Tristan's death ; but now the
gun had been restored to its old position.
There was no mistaking it, for it bore a

number, and I knew that number by
heart.

If some power could endow inanimate
objects with the faculty of speaking but fora
moment ! I handled the gun, scrutinising
every part of it for a chance testimony
which might convict its late possessor. It
had been cleaned since last used : the
breech was well oiled, and the interior of
the barrels sparkled like glass. Whoever
had last shot with it, the man was a cool
hand.

Only the Prince and I ought to have
had keys of the gun-room, but a third key
might exist for all I knew, or somebody
might have abstracted the Prince's key.
The door lock had not been tampered
with, but it was a common lock which
many keys not made for it might fit.
Tantalising to madness was it to reflect

that the gun must have been replaced on
that ver' day, and that the murderer was
possibly moving about the grounds now,
chuckling at his absolute immunity from
suspicion. I was certain that the gun had
not been in the rack the day before.

Of course I sought the Prince at once.
I found him half-seated on the parapet of
a terrace, one leg dangling and a cane
swinging in his hand, as he talked alone
with Prince Wolfgang. I expected he
would hear me in private, but apparently
he did not wish his cousin to suspect that
there were secrets between us, for he told
me to speak out.

He turned pale as I delivered my communication,
but afterwards exhibited more
annoyance than alarm. He had been in a
happy mood for some days, and the conversation
which I had just interrupted

with Prince Wolfgang was evidently interesting
to him. The gloomy recollections
of Tristan's death now cropping up again
suddenly dashed his spirits. 'What can I
do?' he said fretfully. 'You ought to
have had a patent lock put on the door of
the gun-room.'

There Is one thing which ought to be
done without delay,' said Prince Wolfgang,
with military precision. ' Order that no
one shall leave the island. Summon
everybody, guests and servants, explain
what has happened, and ask If any one
was seen to enter or leave the gun-room
to-day. Out of the crowd may come
a witness.'

The suggestion was not bad, but Prince
Frederick rejected It. ' No, it would spoil
the night fete,' he said. 'There is one
consolation In this, that as the murderer

has put the gun back he does not mean to
shoot me with it

Shall you wear a mask to-night ? '
asked Prince Wolfgang.

Yes ; we shall all be masked, and the
men will wear wide-awakes of the same
pattern, so that I shall be safer in the
crowd than I ever was in my life.'

I think you ought to have some means
of communicating with your guards, sir,' I
said ; ' a whistle, for instance, which would
bring me to any particular spot when I
heard it.'

Certainly,' interposed Prince Wolfgang.

'Very well then, I'll take my dog-whistle,'
agreed Prince Frederick indifferently
; and we settled that if he sounded
three sharp signals, Sonnenthal and I were
to hurry forthwith to a certain summerhouse.


He did not propose that Stolz should
be let into the secret, nor did I ; but I
intended that Harold Crowe should be.
There was a lot of dog-whistles in the
gun-room. I took four, and, giving one
apiece to Sonnenthal and Harold, concerted
for a second signal — one long tremolo
whistle — which might at any moment
bring us three together. In my mania for
precautions I confided the fourth whistle
to Joe Trotman, ordered him to mask,
and to keep an eye on the Greeks
and Montenegrins, particularly on Bojo
Klephtovitch. The private signal between
Joe and me was to be the bar of
a cavalry trumpet call, which could be
easily imitated on the whistle.

I still had an unshakable suspicion of
Bojo Klephtovitch, whose alternations of
surliness and obsequiousness towards me

VOL. I 20

rendered him loathsome. I had got him
into good discipline, but he was like an
ill-trained hyena, always ready to snap.
At evening, when all the preparations were
complete and the guests were dressing for
dinner, I went for a last round of inspection.
The Greek sailors were picturesquely
clustered on the steps of the landing-stage
in clean blue-striped shirts, white trousers,
and red bonnets. The Montenegrins, who
were to act as sentries, had donned their
smartest gold-embroidered jackets, lambs
bonnets, and scarlet sashes. They
were not allowed to carry arms. Bojo
alone had an arsenal of silver-mounted
flint-lock pistols, and yataghans at his
waist.

'You know the Prince's order about
arms, Bojo,' I said. ' The sentries are
only to carry sticks and horns.'

I thought that on a gala day like this,
sir ' protested Bojo sulkily.

No, you must put aside your arms.'
Bojo, whose blood purpled under his

dark skin, made as though he would
tear the whole arsenal from his belt and
dash it to the ground ; but he thought
better of it, and became abruptly calm.
I pretended to take no notice of his ill
temper.

You didn't see anybody enter or leave
the gun-room to-day, Bojo ? ' I inquired,
with a searching look, as soon as he was
collected.

Yes, sir, I saw you go in this afternoon
^-carrying a gun,' was the prompt answer.

Carrying a gun ? What do you mean?
I only had a stick.'

Hadn't you, sir ? I can't say, for I
wasn't spying. I only saw you as I passed,

but I could have sworn you were holding
a gun.'

I tried to remember whether I had
come to the door of the gun-room fowling-piece
in hand, and it occurred to me that I
had ; but liking the fellow's manner less
and less I said, ' The gun with which
Tristan was shot has been replaced in the
gun-room.'

You know the gun then, sir ? '

We have only suspicions ; but in any
case a certain gun which was stolen from
the armoury has been replaced, and 20,000
marks would be paid to any one who told
us who had replaced it.'

You would pay that money, sir ? '
asked Bojo with an unmistakable sneer.

Not I, but the Prince.'

Aye ; I thought the offer didn't come
from you, sir.'

What do you mean, man ? '

I meant nothing, sir, but that I thought
that the money wouldn't come from you ;
and you tell me I'm right.'

Not seeing the fellow's drift, I turned
away and went indoors to dinner,

END OF VOL. I

Printed by"R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh

Each work can be had separately, price 6s,, of all Booksellers in
Town or Country.

By W. E. N ORRIS.

A Bachelor's Blunder.

Major and Minor.

Thirty Hall.

The Rogue.
By FRANCES M. Heard.

Near Neighbours.
By HAWLEY SMART.

Breeze Langton.
By Mrs. ALEXANDER.

Look before you Leap.

Her Dearest Foe.

The Adinu-aVs Ward.

The Executor.

The Frees.

The Wooing o't.
Vl^iich Shall it Be ?

By Mrs. ANNIE Edwards.
Ought We to Visit Her ?
A Girto?i Girl.
Leah : a Woman of Fashion.
A Ball-room Repentance.

By Mrs. Liddell.

George Leith of Fen Court.
Susan Drummond.
Berne Boyle.

By Mrs. PARR.

Adam and Eve.
Dorothy Fox.

ANONYMOUS.

The Last of the Cavaliers.
By J. SHERIDAN LE Fan.

Uncle Silas.

The House by the Churchyard.

Ln a Glass Darkly.

By MARCUS CLARKE.

For the Term of his Natural
Life.

By Baroness TAUTPHCEUS.

The Initials. \ Quits !
By MARIE CORELLI.

Vendetta. \ Thalia.

A Romance of Two Worlds.

By RHODA Boughton.
Dr. Cupid.

Cometh up as a Flower.
Good-bye, Sweetheart /
Joafi. I Nancy.

Not Wisely, but too Well.
Red as a Rose is She.
Second Thoughts.
Belinda.

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

|3ubIisfjCTS 'm ordinary to f&rr IHajrstg tfje quem.

Each work can be had separately, price 6s., of all Booksellers
in Town or Country.

By ROSA N. CAREY.

Ives Wife.

Barbara Heathcote's Trial.

Nellie's Memories.

Not like Other Girls.

Robert Ord's Atoiiejnefit.

Wooed arid Married.

Only the Governess.

Uncle Max.

By JESSIE FOTHERGILL.

The 'First Violin:

Borderland.

Healey. \ Kith and Kin.

Probation.

The Wellfields.

By HELEN Matters.
Coming' thro' the Rye.
Sain's Sweetheart.

By ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Three Clerks.

By Mrs. Motley.

Olive Varcoe.

By F. MONTGOMERY.

Misunderstood.
Seaport.
Thrown Together.

By JANE AUSTEN.

(The only Complete Edition,
besides the Stevenson Edition, 63s. )
E7n7na.
Lady Siisan^ and

The Watson's.
Mansfield Park.
Northa7iger Abbey ^ and / ^

Persuasion. y

Pride arid Prejudice.
Sense arid Sensibility.

By Lady G. FULLERTON.
Ellen Middleton.
Ladybird.
Too Strange not to be True.

By W. CLARK RUSSELL.
A71 Ocean F7-ee Lance.

By CHARLES READE.

A Perilous Secret.

Hon. L. WINGFIELD.

Lady Grizel.

BENTLEY'S FOREIGN FAVOURITE NOVELS.

By HECTOR ^lALOT.
Neo Relations.
(With numerous Illustrations.)

By Mrs. AUGUSTUS

CRAVEN.
A Sister s Story.

By E. WERNER.
No Surrender.
Success: and how he Wo7i It.
Under a Charon.
Fickle Fortune.

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

^uijlisljers in ©rtitnarg to f^tr iHajcstg tic ©ucm.

^^.=KA

:^-;^

^l^i^

Shakespeare.

BY

JAMES BRIXSLEY-RICHARDS

[OR OF 'seven years AT ETON,' 'THE DUKE'S MARRIAGE,' ETC.

IX THREE VOLS.— VOL. 11

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

publishers in ©rt]inarg to ^n fHajcstg t!}c aurcn



Aii rights refers-ed

PRINCE Frederick

CHAPTER XVIII

By the time we left table the island was
lit up for the fee. Really beautiful was
the sight of the park with thousands upon
thousands of Chinese lanterns hanging
from the tree branches, and suspended in
garlands across the avenues. Electric
beacons, set up near the lake, turned
green, red, and blue lights upon the water,
making it shimmer with the hues of
precious stones ; and on a score of distant
hills huge bonfires shot up columns of

VOL. II 21

flames towards the sky. The evening was
balmy and still, with that gray-blue darkness
which follows the twilight of a warm
day. The flowers were loaded with
perfume, and the waters brought a fresh
scent of wet willows and reeds. At someway
off, but not too far, a chorus of hunting-horns
sounded as if it were ringing through
the woods, and brought up visions of stags
galloping like the wind with packs of
hounds behind in full cry. Every now
and then a rocket flew up with a rapid hiss
and descended in showers of golden drops,
emeralds and rubies.

The ladies uttered cries of admiration
as they thronged on to the terrace after
dinner ; then they dispersed towards their
rooms to don the masks and dominoes,
while the men streamed towards the
vestry set apart for their sex. I noticed

that the princely party which came out of
the select dining-room was a very merry
one, and that the Princess Dot was receiving
a good many shakes of the hand. Sir
George Malmsey, overtaking me in a
passage, said laughing —

Egad ! I've lost my guinea.'

The bet with Milkinson ? '

Yes, but I'm dashed if I pay until the
wedding is over. That distempered puppy
hem, I mean his Highness the Grand-duke,
announced the engagement to us at
dinner ; but there's many a slip, you know ;
and that unmitigated little minx — hem, that's
to say, her Royal Highness the Princess
Dorothea, is doomed addicted to slipping.'

If I had been told that a baboon had
offered himself as suitor to the Princess
Dot I could not have been more sceptical
and disdainful. I laugh at my own infatuation

now, but at that time I had a
gullible faith in women, notwithstanding
that I had been so recently jilted bonnie
Davenant. As I was directing
some of the guests how to robe, only one
thought crossed me, and that was that if
the Princess had really made Duke Roth-bart
believe that she would engage herself
to him, she was playing down her game of
matrimonial intrigue rather hard even fora
jackanapes.

Very curious was the transformation
produced in the men by the masking.
They all entered into the spirit of the
thing, and vanished one after another like
shadows in their shrouding. Presently
the stairs of the terraces were black with
them, and so soon as the crowd of masked
ladies descended, the whole party moved
into the park, where a band was playing,

and where the refreshment tents were
bright with wax Hghts and costumed waitresses
; while rockets and squibs continued
to fly and scatter their glittering sparks.

But it requires Italians or French people
to carry off these mummers. There
must be fun all round, joking, a little
pushing, and much epigram. The tendency
of Germans when they hear good music is
to sit down and enjoy it. Before long,
groups had settled down placidly as in a
Kindergarten. Then couples paired off and
glided away among the trees. I found
myself walking as in a brilliant enchanted
garden, but alone. It was a drawback
that there were too few ladies, and not
enough men even to make a multitude.
Though the Prince had invited all the
families of the neighbourhood, not more
than five hundred guests in all could be

counted, and this was insufficient for so
large a park. Where there is no posting,
tongues somehow will not wag.

A figure with a voice which I recognised
as Mira Vogelsang's tripped past me on
the arm of somebody whom I supposed to
be Prince Frederick. Next Harold Crowe's
chaff came to me from behind a mask :
Mind you're not mistaken for the Grand-duke,
Meredith; you're so much of a size.'

Unmistakable with his strut, his stature,
and his cigar, the Grand-duke himself next
came along. As I knew him by his inches
he probably detected me by mine. But he
plumed himself on being quite incognito ashe
jabbered —

Well, Mr. Mask, have you ever heard
of the man who shot at Venus, the star ? '

I daresay, but I didn't write his name
down.'

Never mind his name ; he was a perfect
fool.'

No relative of yours, then ? '
Mr. Mask, I hate fools and despise
them.'

You're often in family quarrels, I fear.'
My mystifier bounced off, leaving me
under the conviction that the Princess Dot
had already sent him away with a flea in
his ear. Bridegrooms are not generally ina
hurry to trample on their unsuccessful
rivals. If the Grand-duke had truly been
accepted by Dorothea, he would — according
to my reasoning — have secured Dorothea's
willing company for the whole evening.

Considering how unguarded the Princess
had been in some of her demonstrations of
affection or jealousy towards me, it was not
surprising that tale-bearers should have
brought something of the matter to the

Grand-duke ; in fact, I had occasionally
marvelled that Prince Frederick's eyes had
not been opened. However, it now appeared
highly expedient, if not imperative,
that the Princess should confess her
attachment to me, at least to her own
relations ; and wending my way to our
trysting-place, I rehearsed some arguments
in view of directing her conduct.

The tree where we were to meet was
favourably situated for a clandestine rendezvous.
It stood in a lonely copse, with
a thicket of lilac bushes behind, and
through these a retreat could be quickly
beat in case of surprise. I was naturally
under the tree much before the appointed
time, and when it was a quarter-past ten
by my watch, the Princess had not yet
arrived. But of a sudden a dress rustled
in the lilac bushes, and the Princess, darts



ing out with a laugh like a schoolgirl playing
bo-peep, rushed into my arms.

O my Ferdinand, what a joy to be
with you again for a little ! But, do you
know, I thought of playing you a trick ?
I was going to send you the Baroness
Schnupff in my place. If you had kissed
her I should have had an illness from
laughing.'

Now I've got you, Dorothea, I've a
good mind to carry you off on that famous
night ride,' I said, as she rested on my
shoulder and let me kiss her to my lips'
content, after I had removed her mask.

Wouldn't it be nice ? ' she tittered,
gazing fondly into my eyes. ' But call
me Dot. I like the name as you pronounce
it. Are you very, very much in
love with me, Ferdinand ? '

You know I am.'

VOL. II 2 2

Yes, but say it again : it's music to me
to hear it. And I love you so much — you
can't guess how much, my Ferdinand.
You are my beautiful hero, my Lohengrin,
my Launcelot. I am just a child in
your arms, and you could kill me with a
squeeze. Press me closer, my Ferdinand,
it's so nice in the cold. Heigh, well, you
have heard what has happened ? '

I have heard something of an engagement.'


Who told you ? '

'Sir George Malmsey.'

Ah, yes, he was present at the dinner.
Well, the Grand - duke and I were engaged,
and he made a little speech, at
which the gentlemen clapped their hands,
whilst I stuffed my handkerchief into my
mouth, half crying, half giggling, because
it was all so funny and solemn at the

same time. And so we are going to be
married.

The deuce you are ! ' I exclaimed,
staggered.

'Yes, it must be, my Ferdinand.'

'What do you mean? Is it that morganatic
business again — he with the right
hand and I with the left ? '

She had an outbreak of pure glee as she
clung to me. ' Aha ! I wish it could be,
my Ferdinand — a palace with a central
pavilion for me and two wings for the
Duke and you. I promise you I should be
pretty often in the left wing. But no, it
can't be. I am going to become his real
wife — though I love you ever so much
more, and could strangle any woman who
looked at you. Promise me, my Ferdinand,
that you will never marry — for you
know I am going to sacrifice myself.'

Sacrifice yourself ? To what ? ' I
asked, trying to disengage myself. But
she would not let me unloose her arms.
She clasped me tighter.

Oh, I know you will curse me when it
happens, my Ferdinand, but I don't mind
that. What I should mind would be your
indifference ; but I am glad to see you very
angry, for it shows me you are in love.
We must be serious, however, for life isn't
all cakes. Recollect when I proposed to
you I thought that nobody would ever propose
to me. They had brought me a
Grand-duke and an Archduke, but something
political separated us, and I felt sure
it was going to be the same with the Grand-duke
Rothbart. However, he has promised
to be nice about some political question
in which Count Hochort is interested,
and so they have let him alone. And now

you understand that when the Grand-duke
paid his court to me in earnest my position
became altered. I never meant to die an
old maid, and rather than singularity myself
in such a way, I would have married
you, just to show the world that I could
get a handsome husband for myself. But
from the moment when I have a chance
of becoming a reigning Grand - duchess I
must think of my rank. Oh, why are you
not a prince, my Ferdinand ? But you are
not even a baron, and ours would have
been an outrageous mds alliance.'

And what do you call your marriage
with a man whom you don't love ? ' I replied,
with as much composure as could be
feigned under the deepest mortification and
disgust.

Oh, I don't love the Grand - duke a
bit,' she laughed. ' How could I love such

a man ? But that won't prevent my making
quite a model little Grand - duchess.
He has an army, and I shall amuse myself
by altering the uniforms of his regiments.
Perhaps he will go to war and I shall pick
lint. I'll found an Order for ladies, and
make Princess Ursula mad by not conferring
it on her. But I'll give yoti a
decoration, my Ferdinand, and you shall
come and see me in my palace. We princesses
don't practise la morale bourgeoise,
you know, and it's quite enough that I
should give Grand - duke Rothbart my
name, my money, and my religious convictions
(for I am going to become a Lutheran
for his sake), and that counts for something.'


I suppose it's of no use trying to reason
with you, Dorothea,' I said, making another
effort to free myself from her embrace.

But ivy is not more tenacious than were
her small lithe arms. She had clasped her
hands round my neck, and brought her face
close to mine, so that her breath warmed
my lips as she murmured —

If I reasoned, my Ferdinand, I should
run away with you. You shake your head,
but it's true. You won't curse me, will
you ? You'll be furious, but you'll love me,
for I defy you ever to forget that a princess
held you in her arms like this, and called
you her hero, and said : Kiss me — kiss me
once more — again — again, my darling, my
brave true knight. Oh, I'd give a hundred
golden Fredericks to see the Grand-duke's
face if he came upon us unawares. Hush !
what's that ? '

We both started. The bands in the
park had been playing without cease, but
clear above the din of brass and drums

there suddenly resounded three long sharp
whistles, while simultaneously from another
quarter came the call which was the signal
between my servant Joe and me.

I must be off, Dorothea,' I said ;
'your brother wants me.'

All troubled from the Princess's embrace,
I bounded away. To join the
Prince I had to pass the spot where Joe
was standing.

'There's something up, sir,' he said,
running towards me. ' I've been watching
that man Bojo, who's done a deal of whispering
with one of the others. They've
both given me the go-by, and I suspect
they've disguised 'themselves in masks and
cloaks.'

Come along with me,' I said, for I had
not interrupted my step. We zigzagged
among the trees, and reached the summerhouse,

where the Prince was standing.
Sonnenthal and Harold hurried up almost
at the same moment.

'The lion is loose,' said the Prince.
Try and bring all the guests indoors
as fast as you can without alarming
them.'

Even as he spoke there was a terrific
discharge of fireworks, as of a whole battalion
giving a salute, and we were blinded
by a coruscation of squibs, crackers, Roman
candles, rockets, and Catherine wheels, all
flaring, revolving, sputtering, and darting
forked tongues round a grand set-piece on
which blazed the garlanded names —

RoTHBART — Dorothea

We gazed stupidly for a moment at this
bouquet, which proved, by the by, that the
Princess Dot's engagement must have been

a settled affair several days before. The
guests were trooping up from all sides,
clapping their hands and raising Lochs!
(The German for Hurrah !) But a woman's
shriek pierced the tumult, then another,
and, all at once, the crowd of black
dominoes and masks turned in one direction
and began to move in a panic.

Without reflecting how I could be of
use, I hastened towards the crowd and
easily passed through it, for the people
scattered as they ran — many women
stumbling over their long dresses and
uttering wild screams. I encountered the
Grand-duke, racing as if he had seven-leagued
boots on, and for the life of me
I could not resist a joke.

What are you flying for," Mr. Mask ?
It's only a lion. Try to imagine it's a
Frenchman.'

He fled on, and the crowd with him, so
that in a moment I was alone and stood
still. I could not see the lion, nor hear
anything save the noise of the fireworks ;
but when the last squib had emitted its expiring
splutter, I caught the sound of an
angry grown not far from me.

Scared by the din of fireworks and the
blaze, the lion had taken refuge in an
arbour. When I discovered him there, he
was resting his head on his fore-paws and
switching his tail, but looked more uncomfortable
than mischievous. The problem
was how to get him out and home. I
guessed that he must have been let loose
out of malice — doubtless by Bojo — and a
creepy sensation went down my back at
the idea that the lioness might be at large
also. The lioness would have been a difficult
customer to tackle. The lion, bred ina

menagerie and always well fed, was not
dangerous.

I had taken off my mask and cloak, and
an inspiration came upon me to address
the lion by his name, and to use some of
the words of command to which Tristan
had accustomed him — imitating Tristanss
rough voice and peasant dialect so far as I
could in doing so. ' Tamerlan, omni story
dick shell! ' As I shouted this the lion
raised his head but did not rise, and only
growled louder. 'Fort! inarch ! ' was my
next apostrophe, with a stamp of the foot.
But this caused no progress. I then recollected
that the firing of pistols is a
long-established method of education in
menageries, and, drawing out my revolver,
let fly three shots above the brute's head.
This ' fetched ' him. With one spring he
jumped to within two yards of me, then

Struggled to his legs, kicking up a shower
of gravel, and bolted as hard as he could



followed him at a run to the lion-house,

and saw him rush in. The outer and inner
doors had been left wide open, which showed
that the animal's escape had not been
accidental. Probably it was hoped that the
lioness would escape too, but the lady had
no taste for nocturnal outings, and had retreated
to her cave, frightened at her lord's
absence, and silent. Locking both doors,
I went in search of the keeper and found
him in his lodge dead drunk and snoring.

Upon this I returned to the palace.
Some of the guests, who had witnessed my
achievement from a distance, were thronging
the terrace stairs and greeted me with
acclamations. But I overheard others
talking as though the safe custody of the

lion were my business, and Tamerlan's
escape my fault. The rumours to this
effect were being industriously propagated
by the Grand - duke Rothbart and the
Princess Ursula ; and the Grand - duke
thought it seemly to say to me —

'You've given the ladies a fine fright,
sir.'

It struck me that others besides ladies
were frightened, sir,' was my answer ; 'and
may I ask what your Serene Highness
means by saying that I caused the fright ? '

Captain Meredith is not the keeper of
my lions,' interposed Prince Frederick,
shaking hands with me. * I am very much
obliged to you, Meredith ; you managed
that capitally.'

Then the little Princess Dot spoke, her
voice raised shrilly and her face beaming —

Come to me, Captain Meredith. You

acted like a preitx cJievalie7\ The Grand-duke
of Wenlggeld might have been eaten
up whole but for you, to the inconsolable
grief of his subjects, the despair of the
entire German army, and the indecent
jubilation of the French people. Is it not
so, Grand-duke ? Your Highness told me
that the lion was close upon you. Most
heartily we all thank you. Captain Meredith,
for having saved such a 
life,' saying which the
Princess extended a hand, which I respectfully
kissed, coran populo.

Nobody had been hurt by the lion, but
there was some uproarious merriment
coming from a group of which Mr. Mild-may
Milkinson was the centre. It seems
that this ornament to the British diplomatic
service had fallen down, or been
knocked down, and that the lion, running

over him, had clawed a piece out of the
seat of his pantaloons. Mr. Milkinson
was agitated and justly indignant.

No wonder, for that was Consular business
again,' laughed Harold Crowe. 'The
lion scratched at the wrong door. What a
desperate shame it is that these brutes
won't understand what a Secretary of
Legation is ! '

It was Prince Frederick's bad luck that
whenever he endeavoured to make himself
popular some untoward incident occurred
to disappoint his efforts. The escape of
the lion spoilt the ball which followed the
masque. Many ladies had received a
severe shock, and retired earlier than had
been intended, whispering to one another —

Ein gan ttnheimliches laus ! ' (an uncanny
house).

In the morning I received Prince

Frederick's orders to dismiss the keeper,

who had been found drunk and incapable.
VOL. II 23

The fellow was still too besotted to explain
how he had got drunk. He whimpered
for pardon, but it was impossible to overlook
his offence ; and I wrote to the
director of the Zoological Gardens in
Sabelburg to send me a well trained
keeper in his stead.

Against Bojo Klephtovitch no proofs
were forthcoming. He evidently hated
me, and I suspected that he had let the
lion loose to bring me into trouble ; but as
the Prince had secret enemies, it was just
possible that the lion had been turned out
in order that, during the confusion caused
by his escape, some enterprise against the
Prince himself might be perpetrated. Bojo,
his Montenegrins and Greeks, all hung
together like thieves, and carried the war
into my country by clamouring in an injured
tone that honest men ought not to be

exposed to wild beasts. One garrulous
scamp showed a bruise on his arm which
he said had been occasioned by a heavy
fall as he ran away ; another screamed that
he had dreamt in the night of having his
bones crunched. The object of all was to
make out that the lion-house was under
my charge, and that if I had looked after
the keeper as I inspected them — the
Greeks and Montenegrins — the accident
would not have happened.

I should have requested the Prince to
dismiss the whole pack of them had I
been minded to continue in his service ;
but after my misadventure with Princess
Dot I was bent on seizing the earliest
opportunity for resigning. I turn red
sometimes now when I think of my utter
folly in having ever taken the caprice of
the Princess au adieux ; but in the days

immediately following the disclosure of
the fact that I had been merely a toy in
her sight, I was angry enough to feel that
I had been badly treated. It is always
maddening to be jilted, but there is nothing
for putting a man thoroughly out of
conceit with himself like being thrown
over twice within a few weeks by two
girls, both of whom had vowed they could
defy the world for his sake.

Moreover, I was now placed in a delicate
position towards Prince Frederick. The
Princess having enjoined me to keep our
intimacy a secret, my lips were sealed ; but
assuming the Grand-duke to be jealous
of me — and it did look as though he were
jealous — I could see how some version
might reach Prince Frederick wholly misrepresenting
my conduct. And of course
I should have to submit to whatever construction

the Prince chose to place on my
behaviour, for I could not shelter myself
behind the Princess Dot.

Prince Frederick, however, spared meany
long trouble on this score, for he said
to me on the day after \}s\^ fete —

My sister seems to have been rather
smitten with you. Poor little thing, she
has had endless worries about her matrimonial
offers : but all is happily settled
now. The Grand-duke will make a good
husband, for his wife will easily manage
him.*

To give myself a countenance I asked
when the wedding would take place.

Soon after my sister's conversion — say,
In six weeks. Dr. Ochsmunder must first
receive her into the Lutheran Church, for
the Grand-duke is very particular about
religion. Then a dotation will have to be

voted by our Parliament, with the customary
addresses of congratulation. Count
Hochort will convoke the Chambers for
the purpose.'

I believe that if Prince Frederick had
learned that his sister had been on the
point of eloping with me it would not
have mattered a pin to him now that her
maidenhood was going to end in a proper
marriage. Nor would any continuing preference
of the Princess's for me over her
husband-elect have seemed worthy of his
notice. I have often perceived that however
intimate one may become with princes,
they place an immeasurable distance
between themselves and other people.
The Prince himself, being in love with
his Princess Blanche, had not scrupled to
trifle with Isabel Meadowes, and was
publicly known as the protector of Mira

Vogelsang : that his sister should also
have enlivened the tedium of spinstership
by flirting with one very much beneath
her — so much beneath her as her brother's
secretary — would probably have struck
him as only natural. As Princess Dot
remarked, la 77iorale bourgeoise is not that
of Courts.

The Prince's guests all left the palace
during the three days that followed the
fete, the last to go being Grand - duke
Rothbart, who, it need not be said, scarcely
favoured me with a look on departing.
The visitors gone, I descended to my old
rooms. Several days of heavy rain set in,
and I found ample leisure for fishing, as
the Princess no longer commanded my
attendance at all times of the day. I met
her in the evening at dinner ; and if I had
formed any purpose of piquing her with a

show of unconcern, I should have spent
my labour in vain, for she was now absolutely
given up to theology. She dressed
in black, and every day some strange
clergyman was invited to dinner, and sat
at her right hand. Dr. Ochsmunder ruled
in the palace. On Sundays the Prince
and Princess, with all of us who composed
the suite, attended service in some village
church ; and on Sunday evenings, nay, on
week-days, a circle was formed in the
drawing-room after dinner, and one of the
Lutheran clergymen would hold forth.
Dear me, how some of these learned
doctors did preach !

The best of it was, that they had to
send reports on the Princess Dot's religious
progress to the Grand-duke, and these
were deposited in the State archives of the
Grand-duchy. Here are two samples : —

Her Royal Highness the Princess Dorothea of
Kronheim is edifying all who have the honour to
approach her by her pious advance in spiritual learning.
To-day she discussed wisely with me about the
fallacies of Rome, and showed her deep insight into
the political errors of the Papacy. Like those firm
walls, which are the stronger for being new built, I am
persuaded that her Royal Highness will stand as a
bulwark to the Protestant faith in Germany.

(Signed) Egregious Kant, Theol. Dr.

Deeply impressed by the beautiful wisdom revealed
to me in a conversation which I was permitted,
unworthy as I be, to hold with her Royal Highness
the Princess Dorothea of Kronheim to-day, I hasten
to certify that this illustrious lady, distinguished above
all women I have ever met by the rare gifts of
her mind, did me the honour to question me about
the worship of idols, which she deplored as being too
prevalent at this day. As examples of 
idolatry,
her Royal Highness was graciously pleased to cite
the custom of treasuring old horse-shoes, and inquired
whether those who attribute a luck-bearing property
to these corroded bits of iron are not verily acting like
the Pagans, who adore stocks and stones ? Balm was

shed into my soul by this sweet outpouring of reason,
and now my pen, though unworthy, would fain exclaim
: Happy the people of Weniggeld, who will
have ever before their eyes a Grand - duchess so
eminently preordained to be their example and

guide !

(Signed) Simplicity Holzkopf,

Theol. Dr., Profess. Juris Ecclesiae.

In a veracious chronicle like this it
ought to be mentioned that during the
drawing-room sermons the Princess would
sometimes treat me to a furtive wink, or
call my attention by wags of the head to
the Baroness Schnupff, whose long nose
made abrupt plunges towards her lap as
she succumbed to the evil spirit of somnolence.
Again, the Princess would occasionally
press her spiritual teachers to take
more wine than was good for them, till
their tongues stuttered somewhat, and their
doctrines got a little mixed.

One evening she said, ' Dr. Kant,
what is the prime duty of a Grand-duchess
? '

To preserve herself in life and health
for the happiness of her people,' answered
the gallant theologian, who was at his third
glass of sparkling hock.

But to be in health one must be in
good spirits,' continued the Princess.

'Certainly,' assented the Doctor, not
seeing whither she was leading him.

Well, then, I shall do my duty to perfection,'
said the Princess coolly. 'To be
in good spirits I must have my own way,
and it will be pleasant to think that I owe
it to others never to deny myself a
whim.'

This jesting displeased Dr. Ochs-
under, but as he did not care to reprimand
the Princess he inflicted his

reproof on Dr. Kant in my hearing after
dinner.

Brother Kant, thou hast propounded
the Jesuit doctrine that the end justifies
the means.'

Not in earnest, brother Ochsmunder ;
but dice est desire in loco. The mind
of the righteous loves to disport itself in
green pastures.'

If thou plainest for thyself the freedom
of the wild ass that is another matter,'
answered Ochsmunder drily.

Nay, Ochsmunder ; but if I be a wild
ass, thou hast called me brother,' retorted
Kant, who was nettled ; and I fear these
two good men parted for the night on
terms below zero.

The day came when the Princess Dot
had to remove herself with her ladies, her
pets, and her theologians to Sabelburg, so

as to be nearer to the milliners who were
preparing her wedding-garments. By this
time I had got the better of my anger by
persistently laughing at myself, and I was
enabled to take leave of my late cajole
with a good show of equanimity. I had to
escort her to the railway station. There
was a crowd of peasants with bouquets, a
burgomaster with a speech, a piece of red
carpet on the platform, a special train with
a saloon and an engine decked with evergreens.


As I stood bareheaded near the carriage
waiting for the signal of departure the
Princess leaned out of the window and
beckoned to me. She was wearing a
pretty gray hat with a feather, and looked
a very saucy little piece of goods — not unlovable
though, and not to be parted with
quite so indifferently as I had expected.

You will come to my wedding, sir ? *
she said coaxingly.

I do not know who will invite me,
madam.'

I will take care you are invited ; for I
shall look my finest ; you will never have
seen me so beautiful. And there's another
thing I want you to promise : you will
always think the best of me, not the
worst ? '

Of course.'

I don't know that it's so much of
course. We've had some merry days together,
Ferdinand. Call me 'dot" once
more, just as the train goes and nobody
can hear, and give me a good smile. No,
that's not it — a smile with the eyes, I
mean. That's better, but not quite the
old smile either. Good-bye.'

'Good-bye, Dot.'

She threw something which fell into my
hat — a tiny scrap of silver paper, containing
a ruby ring which I had always seen
her wear.

My book is finished,' said Prince Frederick
a few days later. ' Will you sit down and
hear me read it ? '

Since the Princess's departure there had
been no visitors at the palace, and the
Prince had lived entirely in my company
and that of Stolz, who remained on duty as
aide-de-camp. But Stolz hardly counted,
for though never in the way or out of the
way, he contributed nothing to our conversations
but monosyllables, and nothing to
our small fund of cheerfulness except a
calm face.

Stolz was not present to hear the
Prince's book read. I had been summoned
to the study and settled myself in
an arm-chair, while the Prince stood at a
lectern, holding a blue pencil for the corrections
of his manuscript. This study
was a room of noble proportions, with
three windows facing towards the park and
as many overlooking the lake. Green silk
blinds, easily drawn, tempered the sun's
rays when there was too much light ; and
double windows with thick crystal panes
shut out all sounds of the wind when it
howled in bad weather. The walls were
covered with bookshelves and maps. The
furniture was all modern, and made for
comfort — the prevailing material being
dark green leather. There was no bric-abra
; even the clock on the mantelshelf
was a solid black marble timepiece, with a

VOL. II 24

large white face which told you the day
of the month and week and the quarter
of the moon.

A broad writing-table, with a multitude
of labelled drawers, was flanked by a small
revolving table, with shelves for books of
reference, and by some stands with telescopes.
Prominent features on the writ-unstable
were a stand for photographs and
a shelf crowded with little figures dressed
up as soldiers, peasants, priests, fine ladies,
dandies, actors, ballet-girls, etc. These,
as also the photographs and telescopes,
were helps to the Prince in his writing.
If he wrote of some public man, he liked
to have the features of the individual before
him ; if he alluded to soldiers, he glanced
at his statuettes, in which the minutest
details of military accoutrement were reproduced
; if he were describing a locality,

he turned to his stereoscope, and the place
city, village, lake, or mountain-site — was
brought to his eyes. The Prince explained
this to me before he opened his manuscript,
and as he went on with his reading
I noticed that his description of objects,
animate or inanimate, were careful as inventories.


This book has cost me much labour,'
he remarked, laying his hand complacently
on the pile of written paper ; and as he
spoke I observed that he had dressed
himself in a frock coat — contrary to his
wont in the country — as though he regarded
the present occasion as a solemnity.
'When you have heard it to the end,' he
continued, ' you will understand why Count
Hochort and a number of other people
want to prevent me from ever becoming
King of Kronheim. Of course the King

has a natural private wish that his son-in-law
should succeed him ; but this would
not have operated strongly against me had
not my opinions alarmed Count Hochort
and the Court party. My book is called
Problems of Government, and I want you
to give me your candid judgment on it.'

Gil Bias did not in vain criticise the
Archbishop of Grenade's sermon. The
lesson has been learned by all readers of
Le Sage, so I merely bent my head.

I must first tell you that I have been
accused of Socialist tendencies,' said Prince
Frederick, beginning to walk up and down
the hearth rug. ' Well, I have certainly
never been able to reconcile myself to the
idea that a poor woman should watch her
children pine away into disease and death
from want of proper food, while in the
next street meats and wines are recklessly

wasted by a man who has too much.
Think of the extravagance that goes on
In my household, and recollect that a
single slice of meat and one glass of good
wine daily might give strength and years
of useful life to a child who, for want
of these things, Is now condemned to
scrofula and stunted intellect, with a prospect
of crime and a life in gaol before him.
But, you can say, why don't I find out the
sick child and feed him ? Well, supposing
I collected a hundred starving children and
adopted them, how much good should I
do by removing all care from the people
who brought these children into the world ?
You sow charity and you bring up a crop
of beggars : this is an old story.'

He looked to me for assent, and proceeded
with animation.

Oh, I know the conditions that beget

pauperism. You set up protection, raise
the wages in certain trades, heighten the
price of commodities all round, and drive
workmen to strike, because they find the
purchasing power of their wages too small.
Establish free trade, and you lower prices
and wages at the same time. Shut out
foreign labour and your home manufactures
stagnate, because you limit your
choice of skilled labour and render your
native hands unreasonably exacting : admit
foreign labour, and you have excessive
competition, underselling, and "sweating."
You trust to education to teach the people
that they must go hungry at times in
obedience to economic laws, and your
schooling simply instructs them to read
revolutionary papers, which preach discontent
and revolt. You have silenced the
false teaching of the priest, and you have

given free rein to that of the demagogue.
The one promised paradise after death to
those who enriched him and his Church ;
the other promises a paradise in this Hfe
those who put him and his party in office.'
The Prince became graver as he said —
More and more is expected of Government
in these days, in proportion as the
respect for authority diminishes. Despotism
begets an oppressive and corrupt
bureaucracy ; constitutional curses a
land with the infamies of party competition.
The despot has too much power
and cannot wield it ; the constitutional
ruler, king, or minister has too little, and
dare not exercise that little because he is
always thinking of the next elections.
You look to the Press to guide you and it
lies. Between silence and licence there
seems to be no middle term. See how

the Press, in its daily craving for something
to destroy, undoes every work which
time and experience have created. It
takes centuries to build up a nation, but
one mischievous fool in a newspaper office
can revive race hatreds, exhume a buried
language, and start a nationalist question.
Conversely, see how a hundred newspapers
will roar that torrents of blood may be
shed for the conquest of some wretched
strip of territory not worth a tithe of the
lives or money it will cost to win and
to hold. The Russians scheming for
Bulgaria, the French for Tarquin and
Tunis, the Italians for Massowah and
Tripolis ; where are the signs of human
progress in all this ? where are the proofs
of our education in religious feeling or
rationalism ?'

The Prince returned to his lectern, and

smoothing down the first page of his
manuscript, said —

I have my own theory of progress, a
mystical one if you please, but the only
one I can make square with my idea of
divine justice. I want no other proof of
the divine governance of the world than
that which I see around me in creation,
and in the mysterious law by which evil so
constantly turns to good and good to evil.
Cursorily, one might conclude that the
failure of men's endeavours for the improvement
of their fellows was designed
to give each succeeding generation some
work to do ; but this would be tantamount
to saying that we were all the victims of
some omnipotent system of practical joking.
I don't think this, but I believe
human progress to be typified by the
allegory of the Temple not made with

hands. Every Generation and every man
in his generation can add something to
the work, but the stone which he brings
must be hewn and polished with the best
labour which mind, soul, and body can
give — else it is rejected. Believe this and
the wherefore of failure becomes less incomprehensible.
Take a law which is
passed through a parliament with ever\-
profession of well-wishing for the good of
the community. In so far as the authors
of it were sincere and not self-seeking, that
law will be a success ; in so far as they
sought their own interests and not the
good of mankind, it will fail. If one could
suppose a law to have originated with
purely unselfish men it would be an unmixed
boon ; but every flaw in its origin is
revealed later by failures in its operation.
As most laws are products of good and

evil, so do good and evil spring from teem.
Such is my faith. And now hear me read.'

The reading occupied the whole day,
with interruptions for luncheon, a stroll in
the park, and dinner. The evening was
far spent when the Prince reached his final
page and said, in a voice which had grown
rather hoarse from its long exertions —

There ! I have had my say ; now it's
your turn to speak.'

An author who asks for opinions on an
unpublished book seeks praise ; a prince
expects double praise. It could be given
to Prince Frederick's work, however, without
any effort of conscience.

The book was an autobiography intermixed
with essays, in which the author
had noted his observations on the contemporary
history of Europe, his converses



UNIVERSITY Of Illuminations

with men of all ranks from kings to
cobblers, and his impressions as to the
characters of living celebrities. It was
written with astounding frankness, and
revealed throughout the Prince's contempt
for shams ; but it brought the reader to no
conclusion. It stirred up all the problems
of the day, and left them unsettled. It
showed that the author had probed the
baseness of human nature to its depths
and remained disenchanted, without confidence
in any public man and without
faith in any system, religious, political, or
philosophical.

The style was fairly good — for a royal
author it was greatly above the average.
As in all books written by princes and
princesses, there was much naive egotism
and self admiration, and from the very
universality of the work it contained many

ignorant statements, and not a little false
reasoning. The German language also,
with its long involved periods, pedantic
antitheses, and laboured climaxes, rendered
certain chapters uncommonly ponderous.

But it was a remarkable book to come
from the heir to a throne. The thoughts
of a prince may be of lead, but passing
through his mouth they are shot as through
a rifle barrel and carry far. One certain
thing about this work was that it was only
calculated to make the Prince a multitude
of powerful and irreconcilable enemies.
Published a century after his death it
would earn him a reputation as a royal
cynic, but printed during his uncle's lifetime
it would render it impossible that he
should ever become king, for his enemies
might quote passages from it against whatsoever
he did. Autoritarians and Liberals

had been alike belaboured by him, and
without mercy. His mere comments on
Prince Bismarck — whom in the main he
admired — would be enough to make the
infuriated Chancellor snatch the crown
from out of his reach, and denounce him
to the ridicule of mankind as a lunatic.

Reflecting over these things, and feeling
it was my duty to offer some word of
caution, I was much relieved to hear the
Prince say that he saw serious difficulties
in the way of publication.

The book can't be published in Germany,'
he said. ' It would be seized at
the printer's. See the letter which King
Franz has written to me about it.'

This was the King's letter —

My Nephew — I hear that you are writing a book.
I remind you that your position forbids you to publish
anything without my authority. Franz R.

This command of his Majesty's cannot
be ignored, sir,' I remarked.

King Franz would put my book into
the fire, whereas I mean it to be published,'
replied the Prince doggedly. ' I can't get
it printed in France, however, for the
French would make political capital out
of the matter. Belgium and Holland are
not safe : Switzerland and England remain,
but I prefer England. Do you think a London
publisher would undertake the work ? '

I have heard of injunctions in Chancery
to restrain publication,' I answered, feeling
rather hazy on the subject. ' But I think
your Highness had better consult a lawyer.'

'That's what I mean to do,' he said,
depositing his manuscript in an iron safe
and double-locking the door. ' What do
you say to our going on a trip to England
together ? I mean to write to the King

and ask for leave to travel during a few
weeks until my sister's marriage. I will
travel incognito as Count von Grlinsee, and
you can show me all that you think worth
seeing in your country. I want a change
of air and scene, and, besides, I have reasons
for travelling apart from my book.'

The prospect of a trip to England was
highly agreeable, and as regards the book,
I bethought me that every day's delay
would be a fain. So I entered with
alacrity into the project. Elated by the
completion of his task, and by the impression
which he saw it had produced on me,
Prince Frederick shook hands and wished
me amicably good-night.

But perceiving that the Prince was about
to stake his crown for literary reputation of
a most dubious kind, I felt that I ought to
consult somebody having more ascendency

over his Highness than I possessed. It
did not weigh much with me that I might
be gravely compromised by abetting my
master in a disobedience of the King's commands,
though even this point required
some consideration. The chief difficulty
was how to act without betraying the
Prince's confidence. I thought of the
Princess Dot, but doubted whether she
had real influence over her brother. Then
I remembered Dr. Grinzener, and how
Isabel Meadowes had assured me that he
was absolutely to be trusted.

So I wrote Dr. Grinzener a carefully-worded
letter, in which I expressed my
fears that the Prince's book would do him
great harm. The next trouble was about
getting this letter conveyed to its destination.
Luckily the Prince wanted some

things bought in Sabelburg for his journey,
VOL. II 25

and as his valet had a face swollen like a
pumpkin from toothache, I suggested that
Joe should be sent on the errand. This
was agreed to, and I gave Joe the letter,
instructing him to deliver it into Dr. 's
own hands.

I received Grinzener's answer in a copy
of the K ladder adatck containing this message
in dotted letters —

Throw every impediment hi the way of
publication, but do not let it be seen that you
are doing so.'

These instructions to play a double
game did not suit me. Accordingly I
ventured to tell the Prince what was my
candid opinion of his book. To my
chagrin he seemed rather to exult in
anticipation of the terrific noise which
the work would cause.

I will take my chance of clamours,' he

said lightly, ' though my experience is that
political writings or speeches never damna
man. Remember too that my enemies
want to make out that I am a fool, and
the time has come for me to prove the
contrary.'

But I am afraid, sir, that some passages
of your book are distinctly libellous, and
you have reported conversations which
were clearly intended to be private. May
I ask you at least to be guided by the
opinions which a good English lawyer
may give ? '

Every man whom I consult will of
course say 'don't'" replied the Prince;
but prudent people said 'don't" to
Luther and Galileo. Let me go my way,
I'll take care you don't suffer. By the by,
I have the King's permission to travel, so
we will start tomorrow.'

I HAVE said that the idea of a trip to
England was highly agreeable to me.
But in Prince Frederick's service I felt
like a man seated in a dogcart beside
an eccentric driver with a bolting horse.
There was no foretelling a moment beforehand
what would happen next.

It had now been revealed to me by-many
signs that the country people around
thought the Prince and I had planned
Tristan's murder together. Bojo Kleph-
twitch had thrown out more than one
dark hint that he was suspicious of me ;

and against such hints I was defenceless,
although they added to my suspicions of
Bojo himself. This was another of the
reasons which made me wistful for a
change of air. There could not be a more
delightful abode than Griinsee for a man
with a quiet mind ; but mysteries and presentiments
of evil gave a choke-damp
atmosphere to the place.

As to Prince Frederick's book, it was
with considerable disgust that I learned I
was to be the custodian of the manuscript
during our travels. The Prince gave mea
despatch-box, remarking that his luggage
might be rifled by some emissary of Count
Hochort's, but that there was not much
chance of such a liberty being taken with
mine. I really did not perceive what interest
Count Hochort could have in suppressing
the book; on the contrary, it struck me that,

if the Premier got the manuscript into his
possession, he would score out the passages
relating to himself, and have the rest published
at his own expense rather than that
it should not be published at all. The
book would do at one stroke what Count
Hochort had been assiduously planning to
accomplish by a series of intrigues hitherto
unsuccessful.

But Prince Frederick by a perversion of
reasoning was convinced that his enemies
would destroy his book if they could, and
the keeping of the manuscript became
therefore a constant worry to me. The
despatch-box was too large to fit into my
travelling-bag, so I had to wrap it in a
railway rug ; but as this made a bundle
which would have attracted the attention
of Custom-house officers, I cut the rug in
two, and contrived a parcel which, when

Strapped, formed the volume of an ordinary
rug. The box inside was hidden by the
overlapping ends of the woollen cloth. At
frontier stations I held this tiresome thing
in my hand ; at buffets it was my footstool
while I dined ; in railway carriages at night
and on the steamboat it was my pillow, and
in hotel rooms I had to devise hiding-places
from which unsuspicious Joe Trot-man
was always fishing it out. The Prince
worked me up to the highest temperature
of precautionary fever by anecdotes as to
how kings' messengers had been robbed of
despatch-bags which they had fancied they
had kept under their eyes, or under their
heads, waking and sleeping.

I may add that the precious box about
which I took so much trouble contained
nothing but a bundle of newspapers. The
Prince's manuscript had been entrusted in

another box to Mira Vogelsang, who, by a
coincidence not perhaps undesigned, was
going to England at the same time as ourselves
to fulfil a short engagement with a
German Opera Company at Her Majesty's
Theatre.

Notwithstanding that the Prince was to
voyage incognito, he was obliged to take
an aide-de-camp, and so Captain Count
Sigismund von Stolz went with us. We
formed a party of eight, including our three
valets, the Prince's chasseur — or carriage
footman — and a polyglot courier. The
latter, however, travelled in advance of us
to retain rooms and send carriages to fetch
us at the stations. We spent a day and a
night in Paris, where the Prince laid in a
stock of novels for his sister ; and another
night at Bologna, where we went to the
theatre and saw a play, in which as usual a

husband was the laughing-stock. I need
not have troubled myself about the Customhouse
officers, for our arrival was
everywhere announced by the courier, and
the station officials received us cap in hand,
without venturing to open our boxes.
Crossing the Channel by the Folkestone
route, and with a pleasant passage, we
reached London in the afternoon and went
to an hotel in Northumberland Avenue.

The Kronheim Minister at the Court of
St. James's, Count Otto Hochort — brother
of the Premier — had come to meet us at
Charing Cross with the staff of his Legation,
and a great deal of bowing between
his Excellency and the Prince took place
on the platform. Each member of the
Legation was presented, bowed, and the
Prince bowed. Stolz and I were then introduced
to his Excellency, who raised his

hat, and we raised our hats. A crowd of
passengers, cabman, and porters watched
these proceedings with interest. The instant
the Prince had reached his hotel he
had to tumble at once into a frock coat and
drive off with Stolz and me, arrayed with
similar haste, to return the Minister's visit.
His Excellency came down to the street
door of the Legation, and greetings were
exchanged as though we had not met for
years. In the drawing-room Countess Otto
von Hochort — a very German dame with
pointed nose and large extremities — her
daughters, and some other ladies, stood to
welcome the Prince, and the business of
presentation began afresh. The visit lasted
a quarter of an hour, and then the Minister
accompanied us to the door and took
what seemed to be an everlasting farewell
of us.

The next day the Prince of Wales and
several other members of our Royal family
called at the hotel. After each one of
these visits hats, sticks, and gloves were
called for, and we started off to pay the
return call. This fun lasted the whole day ;
but the comedy of Prince Frederick being
only Count von Grlinsee was scrupulously
kept up. Thus, if anybody asked the hall
porter whether Prince Frederick of Kron-
hei were at home, he was told that no
such person was staying in the hotel ; but
if he asked for Count von Grlinsee he was
referred to me. To the uninitiated in
Court etiquette it may be explained that if
the Prince had not been incognito all the
visits would have had to be paid in uniform.

By the end of our second day in London
there lay on the Prince's table a dozen invitations
to dinner for himself and his suite

that is, Stolz and me ; a score of circulars
from charitable associations and advertising
tradesmen ; half a dozen begging letters
from distressed Kronheimers inhabiting
London ; a petition from a Kronheim deserter,
now employed as a waiter, who
desired that his offence might be forgiven
and forgotten ; several envelopes full of
benefit concert tickets ; notes from theatrical
managers requesting the Prince to
honour their establishments with a visit ;
several boxes of sample cigars ; a roll of
tailors' patterns ; and an anonymous epistle
warning the Prince that his days were
numbered.

This is a shower that will slacken intime,
I suppose,' observed the Prince, ashe
eyed the pile of letters and directed me
how to answer the invitations. * I have
come to England for amusement, but doubt

whether all this dining out will agree with
me.' Nevertheless he liked dining in
houses where the company was good and
the table brilliantly served. At Sabelburg
he and Sir George Malmsey were the only
two people who understood giving a good
dinner.

As to the letter threatening him with
assassination, the Prince read it with a
shrug. He was accustomed to receive
such missives several times a month, and
thought it useless of me to communicate
the letter to Scotland Yard — which, however,
I did.

I wanted to call on Isabel Meadowes,
but for several days found no time. When
there were no visits to pay I had to
escort the Prince sight-seeing. We went
to the Wax works, the Tower, the Zoological
Gardens, Billingsgate, and the Rag

Market in Houndsditch. We took long
drives in hansoms through miles and miles
of shabby houses, just to give the Prince
an idea of the size of the Metropolis. We
steamed down the river for twopence to
Greenwich, and up the river to Kew. We
went to the Docks with a tasting order, and
came up half-drunk from the fumes of a
cellar full of port and sherry. We had a
morning in the police courts and an afternoon
in the prisons. We lunched in city
chop-houses. We went to Vincent Square
to see some football, and to Islington for a
dog show. We spent part of an evening
at a Salvation Army service, and wound
up with visits to the Covers' Hall and the
Temple of Discussion Forum in Fleet
Street. I wonder how the orators at these
two places would have demeaned themselves
had they known that it was a future

king who sat listening to them with a ' go '
of whisky and soda before him. As it was,
we came in for some fine bits of seditious
declamation, and the best of it was that a
policeman at the door of the Covers' Hall
was trying to coax a drunkard away on the
ground that ' he disturbed the gentlemen
inside.'

This is a wonderful country,' the Prince
kept on saying ; ' your national life is one
of infinite varieties. Fancy a Kronheim
policeman telling a tipsy fellow to
keep quiet because he would disturb a
couple of other topers abusing Count
Hochort ! '

I know London pretty well, and have
a great fondness for strolling about the
historical parts of the town. For our
history the Prince could not feel much
interest ; but he was never tired of wandering

over the city to look for the grand
pieces of modern architecture that are
hidden away in narrow lanes and blind
alleys. Our banks and merchants' offices
impress foreigners more than they do some
of us. The Prince also loved the roar of
Lydgate Hill, Fleet Street, and the Strand
in the afternoon, when the newsboys are
screaming the evening editions, and when
the crowded 'buses of all colours are rolling
away in a ceaseless tide towards the
suburbs. He used to remark that the
stolidity of our crowds amused him.

Your clergymen striding along in their
wide-awakes, your young men on bicycles,
your costermongers bawling apples, your
small red shoe blacks, and your big blue
policemen — all look as if they had got an
amount of energy to throw off within a
given time, and didn't mean to be stopped

by anybody under any circumstances whatever.'


Our peripatetic did not make the Prince
neglect the business of getting his book
published. We called on an eminent publisher,
who of course said that he should
be delighted to bring out his Royal Highness's
book ; but he was under the impression
that he was merely to publish an
English translation of the work. His face
became graver when he ascertained that
he was to issue a book which the Prince
dared not bring out in his own country —
a book containing matter that was likely
to prove exciting to the great ones of
this earth. Seeing, possibly from my
looks, that I had a private opinion about
the work, he politely asked that the manuscript
might be sent him, but urged that

an English translation should be put forth
VOL. II 26

simultaneously with the German edition.
A few hours later he wrote to say that his
firm would undertake the publication of
his Royal Highness's book at H.R.H.'s
own expense, and on receiving a guarantee
of indemnity against any possible action at
law. In the Prince's own interest, however,
he ventured to advise that the
manuscript should be submitted to counsel,
and he gave us the address of a solicitor
'who spoke German.'

We drove to New Square, Lincoln's
Inn, but it turned out that the solicitor
only spoke German by proxy. It was
one of his clerks who was proficient in
that tongue. ' I can't submit my book to
a clerk,' said the Prince, and so we went
to see another lawyer whom our solicitor
recommended as ' speaking German himself.'
This one proved to be a gentleman

who translated the legal business of German
merchants in London. He was ready todo
anything, and grew quite nervous at
the honour of having the heir-presumptive
to a throne in his office. But the Prince
did not like the looks of the man, nor
did I.

Incidentally we learned from the two
lawyers that they could not mention a
single barrister of any standing who knew
German. ' I don't believe there is one,'
said the first lawyer. ' I daresay we shall
find one by inquiring,' opined the second.

I must say I wasn't prepared for this,'
remarked Prince Frederick, a little huffed.
'Why, I could find a score of Sabelburg
lawyers speaking English.'

It was not my purpose to remove difficulties
from the publication of the book ;
still I did not like to see the Prince lower

his dignity by hawking his manuscript
about. Any business which is not perfectly
plain brings a man instantly into
relation with knaves. I earnestly tried to
dissuade the Prince from calling upon a
publisher of foreign books whose address
we found in a newspaper advertisement,
but he was not to be baulked. This manlike
the commercial lawyer, jumped at the
proposed transaction, and forthwith babbled
of English, French, Italian, and German
editions to be issued on the same day, with
an American edition into the bargain. He
was ready to take all risks and to have the
book out in four months. He began by
a proposal of half profits, and ended by
offering five thousand pounds for the copyright.


You see everybody Is not afraid, ' said
the Prince, flattered by some fulsome compliments

which the publisher had paid him.
I think I shall close with this man and
spend his five thousand pounds on founding
some German scholarships in your
English public schools.'

But the Prince's secret had now been
spoken to a good many ears, and accordingly
the following notice found its way
into the literary announcements of a newspaper
: —

H.R.H. Prince Frederick of Kronheim, who is
now staying in London, is making arrangements for
the publication of an important work entitled Problems
of Government. We understand that the book
contains unsparing criticisms of Prince Bismarck's
policy.

The Kronheim Minister in London must
have telegraphed this announcement to his
brother, for the following day he called atour
hotel with a long face and handed the

Prince a message from King Franz, who
ordered his nephew's immediate return to
Kronheim, and forbade him to publish any
book or pamphlet whatsoever.

My health does not admit of my returning
to Kronheim for the present,'
answered the Prince coolly. ' I will send
medical certificates to that effect if the
King wishes it. As for publishing books,
will you please inform his Majesty that I
remember having already received his
commands on this subject ? '

The diplomatist had not been instructed
to demand the Prince's promise that he
would publish nothing, and so retired.
Medical certificates of inability to travel,
being easily procurable, were of course not
asked for. A prince's word about his
health must be taken, and so Prince frederick
remained master of the situation.

But for a day or two he spoke no more
about his book. I was always expecting
that he would ask me to forward the manuscript
to the foreign publisher. One evening,
however, when we were at a music hall,
of all places, he said abruptly (we were
alone in a private box) —

I don't much fancy the Anglo-Germans
who were so eager about my book. I have
more confidence in the old fellow who
wanted guarantees, and in the old lawyer
who speaks German through his clerk. I
see, though, that if any respectable publisher
is to take up the business we must
have an English translation. Do you think
Miss Meadowes would translate the book
for me ? She speaks our language
well;

I was startled by the proposal, which,
considering the Prince's conduct towards

Isabel Meadowes, was, to say the least, in
poor taste ; but he proceeded in a self-complacent
tone —

I should like Miss Meadowes to see the
book. She cannot have correct opinions
about me until she has read it. I gathered
from you that she did not appear very
angry with me.'

She spoke very kindly of you, sir.'

'Well, you may call and ask her if
she would like to see the manuscript. I
suppose she is in London somewhere.
Say that I should be happy to have her
opinion, and pay her some pretty compliments
about my confidence in her
judgment. We can arrange about the
translation later.'

It never occurred to the Prince, in his
Royal selfishness, that he might cause pain
to the girl, who must be wishing in her

heart that she had never seen him ; but,
spoiling princes as we do, how can we
marvel that they should think only of
themselves ?

I HEARD you were in town,' said Isabel
Meadowes, ' but I began to think you had
forgotten us.'

We were seated in the drawing-room of
Lord Springfield's pretty house overlooking
Hyde Park. Isabel had sent a servant to
her father to announce my visit, and during
a few minutes we had a talk to ourselves.
She was looking very lovely. There was
a repose on her features which I had never
seen there before, for in my previous interview
with her she had been agitated and
miserable.

It is very good of you to have written
me those interesting letters from Grlinsee,'
she continued, with a friendly smile. ' How
is Prince Frederick now? I see by the papers
that you have been dining out a good deal'

Yes, and sight-seeing. We were up
early this morning to attend a prize-fight,
which didn't come off.'

She laughed when I related to what queer
places we had been, but added quietly —

One might infer from this that the
Prince was getting over his troubles ; but
I know the induction would be rash.
Princes lead such strange lives. . . . How
is the affair with the Princess Blanche
progressing ? '

I have heard no more of it.'

You know she is coming on a visit to
Windsor with her mother ? '

No, I was not aware of it.'

My father heard it from the German
ambassador, and I have thought that it
might be this that had brought the Prince
over to England. By the way, is it true
that the Prince is going to pubHsh a book ?'

Quite true, and I am to ask if you will do
him the favour to read it in manuscript.'

Are you in earnest ? '

Entirely. It is another part of my
message to say that the Prince has great
confidence in your judgment.'

He is very good,' she replied, blushing.
I was curious as to whether she would
accept the proposal, and eyed her rather
intently. She reflected a moment before
adding : ' I must of course feel inquisitive
about this book — who would not ? — but I
can wait till it is published.'

The Prince, however, would like your
opinion on it before publication.'

He has some misgivings then ? Have
you read the manuscript ? '

I have had it read to me, and I do not
think that it ought to be published.'

My opinion would no doubt coincide
with yours then. But this is a matter upon
which I must consult my father. Here he
comes.'

Lord Springfield was one of those delightful
old gentlemen whose existence is
always making ladies exclaim that the race
of delightful old gentlemen is becoming
extinct. The ' old school ' to which he
belonged is indeed perpetual, though it has
ever had few first-class scholars. Natty,
chatty, perfect in his dress, having that
politeness which comes from an exquisite
consideration for the feelings of others, he
stood high in everybody's esteem, without
anybody feeling his superiority. He had

those manners which seem so easy to
imitate and are inimitable. There was not
much in his talk, which was like whipped
cream or the foam of champagne ; but it
requires good cream or wine to produce
such froth. If he entered a room where the
company had been dull, the atmosphere was
at once cleared. Men made way for him ;
ladles flocked round him. His laughter
was soft, and his pleasantries were gentle.
He affected neither philanthropy nor cynicism.
He treated opinions as he did men,
with an easy deference for the most foolish,
but kept inflexibly to the politics of his
party, which was the Conservative. Lord
Springfield was over sixty, and had
held several high appointments in the
diplomatic service. It was certainly
curious that so finished a gentleman,
whom all women loved, should never

have gained ascendency over his own
wife.

Lord Springfield's greeting to me was
a cordial shake of the hand, and a pleasant
remark about some relations of mine who
were old friends of his. I expected that
Isabel would evince embarrassment about
introducing the subject of the Prince's book;
but she showed none whatever, nor did hein
advising her to read the book ' if it
amused her.' Whatever the old nobleman
may have thought about the Prince's treatment
of his daughter, he was far too shrewd
to let men see that he had a grievance.
The worldly-wise fight their bates for
themselves. I presently noticed that one
of Lord Springfield's methods of fighting
Prince Frederick was to treat all that concerned
him with absolute Indifference.

By all means let the Prince send the

manuscript if he likes,' was his careless
rejoinder.

But, papa, you will read the book too,'
pleaded Isabel.

You know I read little, my dear. The
Prince must excuse me.'

I feel I am making a fuss about a
trifle,' observed Isabel. ' I would much
rather not see the manuscript, but if my
opinion on it can support yours '

Lady Springfield is out of town,' interrupted
Lord Springfield ; ' but if you have
a free evening I wish you would dine with
us. Captain Meredith, and bring Stolz
with you. I knew all his family at Labels
Is he as talkative as ever? ' After
this we touched on all the topics of the
day, and the Prince was no more alluded
to.

On my return to the hotel I found

Her. H. visibly eager to learn the results
of my embassy. When I told him that
Isabel consented to read the book, he
flushed with pleasure. ' I'll give you the
manuscript, and you can have it sent to
her at once,' he said, unlocking a bureau.

I stared, for I imagined that the manuscript
was safe in that despatch-box, which
it had given me such infinite trouble to
guard. But the Prince had forgotten this,
and the manuscript was in my hands before
he recollected his slip.

Donnerwetter ! ' he exclaimed, colouring
; ' but I never told you that your box
held the manuscript.'

No, sir,' I answered, taking his word on
the point for granted.

'You see I must finesse in everything

that I do,' he continued with vexation,

though he tried to laugh the matter off.
VOL. n 27

I thought that if Hochort's people sought
to kidnap the manuscript they would
judge by your care of the box that you
were the custodian of it. I trust you are
not offended.'

You gave me a box to keep, sir ; it
was no business of mine to know what was
inside.'

Yes, exactly so,' he said, relieved.
'Well, please to let Miss Meadowes have
the book at once.'

I went back to Park Lane in a hansom
to deliver the manuscript in person. Isabel
was alone, and I could see that some
grave thoughts about the book had assailed
her.

It is curious that the Prince should
desire me to read it,' she said, as she
slowly untied the parcel.

I believe that he hopes it will raise

him in your opinion. He confessed as
much.'

Has he been raised in your opinion ?
You have had time now to judge his
character.'

I always feel that a prince cannot be
judged by the same rules as other men,'
was my answer. ' An old French writer
remarked that "it was no praise to say of
a king that he was a good flute player."
I feel about Prince Frederick that he wants
some of the qualities which we look for ina
king.'

But the course of nations would never
be altered if all kings were alike.'

That is true enough ; but there is only
one way of steering a boat and one way of
riding a horse, and it seems to me that the
pattern of the coxswain, horseman, and
king never changes.'

There appears to be a great deal of
philanthropy in this,' observed Isabel, turning
over the leaves of the manuscript ;
'but to follow up your simile, don't you
think that a steerer must make allowances
for the sea and a rider for the temper
of his horse ? You can't be always
pressing the rudder and tightening therein.'


No ; and I don't think a hard hand is
the sign of a good king, but a light, knowing
hand is. The great point is that the
rider shouldn't allow the brute under him
to play any tricks.'

Are all we uncrowned people such
brutes ? ' she asked, smiling. ' I wonder
what sort of a king you would make. Captain
Meredith. Would it be always whip
and spur ? '

No ; but the whip should never be

dropped,' I replied, laughing. ' It strikes
me that our good-natured modern kings
are always letting themselves be persuaded
to throw the whip away. Then another,
not to be outdone, thinks he can do without
spurs. Upon this the horse's friend —
the radical ostler — vows that the horse
won't stand the curb ; and another, who
has never been on horseback, and so, of
course, knows all about it, thinks it a shame
to use the snaffle. The stirrups and girths
go next, in deference to the outcry of
people who vow that the brute is as intelligent
as his master ; and lastly, the
saddle is discarded. Then we return to
the state of nature. I can't see, however,
that the horse gains much when, having
nothing to guide his pace, he bolts and has
to be grabbed by the ears and nostrils, till
he and his rider roll down a precipice together,

the one with a broken head, and
the other with a broken back.'

We have heard of centaurs, though —
the horse and man in one without a saddle,'
replied Isabel, amused. 'If I had to choose
an emblem for a republic, I should select
that. But I suppose your practical objection
would be that centaurs never
existed ? '

It is certainly good in politics to start
with an ideal of things possible,' I answered.
' But, Miss Meadowes, you are
making a disputant of me. I think when
you read the Prince's book you will see
that he puts too many queries about the
whip and bridle, as if these things had
never been discussed before his time. Now,
the horse is not a newly discovered animal,
and the tricks of democracy are as old as
those of horses, asses, and mules.'

I wish Prince Frederick would get
married,' exclaimed Isabel seriously. 'A
king wants more kindness and sympathy
than most men, and gets least. What
between people who dare not speak to
him, and people who feel it their interest
to mislead him, it seems to me that a wife
is the only being whom he can trust.'

I suspect that is the case with most
men,' I replied with equal seriousness.
How many of our friends dare or care to
give us good advice, and what encouragement
do they get from us when they do
venture ? I doubt whether any king ever
went wrong for want of warning. However,
as regards the Prince, I do feel that,
like other men, he would be all the better
and happier for having a trusted companion
— I say trusted, because it all lies
there.'

'Yes, certainly,' she said ; ' but I have
seen portraits of Princess Blanche, and
hers is such a good little face that I augur
well of the Prince for loving her. I presume
he will go to see her at Windsor ? '

I really know nothing about it ; but
the Prince told me he had an object incoming
to England besides the publishing
of this book.'

He should have asked the Princess
Blanche to read this book, not me,' said
Isabel, blushing again slightly ; but as I
was rising to go she changed the subject
and spoke of her mother.

Mamma will be coming back in a few
days, but I hope you won't forget papa's
invitation to dine with us before she
comes. She will invite you herself afterwards.'


I hope Lady Springfield is quite well ? '

I asked, but the tone of my question — as
she guessed — meant that I should Hke to
know how she and her mother were getting
on together.

Mamma has quite forgotten our troubles
at Sabelburg,' she observed, replying to
my unuttered words. ' We never speak
of them now. She thought it very kind
of you to take care of me on that famous
evening, and she will be delighted to see
you.'

There was a fine oil portrait of Lady
Springfield hanging in the drawing-room.
It had been painted when her ladyship
was younger, but showed those sharp eyes
and thin pursed lips which are not generally
softened by age. I could not help reflecting,
as my eyes fell upon this picture,
that I should be glad to hear from Lady
Springfield's own mouth that she had dismissed

from her mind all that had passed
at Sabelburg, and that she was truly glad
to see me. But I doubted whether her
pleasure would be so great.

A few evenings after this Prince frederick
had to dine with Mira Vogelsang and
the manager of Her Majesty's Theatre,
and as he gave me timely notice of this I
was able to dine at Lord Springfield's —
Stolz going with me. Lord Springfield
had previously left a card on this punctilious
aide-de-camp, so that none of the conventionalities
dear to the German mind
might be violated.

Stolz had been rather neglected by the
Prince in London ; but he had fastened
upon the military attache of the Kronheim
Legation, and the pair had amused themselves
in their own way. Stolz had
visited the Wellington Barracks, the

Albert Barracks, and the Knightsbridge
Barracks. He had been to the Tower
Armoury, to Woolwich, and to Field.
He had seen a number of generals testing
repeating rifles and rejecting them all,
and he had been present at Shoeburyness
during the bursting of a big gun. What
he thought of all these sights he confided
to nobody. He sat at Lord Springfield's
table, imperturbably calm, with his fine
beard covering half his shirt front, and his
right elbow well squared up to the level
of his ear, as he lifted fish, flesh, and fowl
into his mouth on the point of his knife.

Lord Springfield's polite attempts to
draw out his guest were like endeavours
to dissect a very tough bird who would
only yield to the knife in chips. Stolz,
however, was moved now and then to
originate a remark.

The red coats of your soldiers are
cleaner than I should have expected.'

We'll, it is pleasant to hear something
said in praise of our army,' laughed Lord
Springfield.

Does the gnddiges Frdtilein (Isabel)
ride ? '

Yes ; I ride almost every morning in
Rotten Row.'

If I hire a horse may I have a gallop
with you ? '

'A trot or a canter with pleasure.'

You are afraid to gallop ? '

Not at all ; but the park-keepers do
not allow it.'

The gnddiges Frdulein is tall enough
to make a fine dragoon.'

This was a very delicate compliment
for Stolz. It would have made a whole
row of Kronheim Frdzdeins giggle till

they had stitches in their sides. Stolz's
own mother would not have recognised
him in the character of airy trifler thus
unexpectedly assumed. But the merriment
occasioned by his remark either induced
a sudden distrust of his own powers,
or convinced him that he had said so good
a thing that he ought not to obliterate its
effect by a second venture. So he relapsed
into contemplative silence for the rest of
the evening.

At least he made another sally after
Isabel had left the room, and when we
were left together. Ignorant of the English
custom of lingering a little over wine,
and concluding apparently that he was in
for a long drinking-bout, Stolz conscientiously
filled his glass every time the decanter
was passed him, and with an equal
sense of duty emptied his glass immediately

in two gulps. At last Lord Springfield,
thinking the time had come for
moving to the drawing-room, said in his
bland way —

Will you take some more wine,
Count ? '

I will drink some more if you like,'
answered Stolz obligingly, ' but if I do I
shall be drunk.'

When we were in the drawing-room I
drew near the small table where Isabel
was pouring out tea, and she asked
brightly —

Are you thinking too that I should
make a good dragoon ? '

I was admiring her black lace dress
and all about her. She was a most fascinating
type of the handsome well-bred
English girl, and perhaps I was a little
jealous of Stolz, who kept staring at her

with a regimental inspector sort of look
from the sofa where Lord Springfield was
trying to entertain him by making a
Scotch terrier beg for lumps of sugar.

May I speak about the Prince s book
before Count Stolz ? ' asked Isabel, lowering
her voice.

No, please don't.'

'Well, I will say only this, then,' she
continued in a whisper. ' I have read the
book, and want to read it once more. But
if the Prince should desire my opinion on
it, please tell him this : ' she hesitated a
moment. ' Please tell him, but mind only
if he asks for my opinion, that I advise
him to lock up the book, but to ac upon
it, and also to show it to the Princess
Blanche.'

It may prove rather a startling book
for that young lady.'

Well, it Startled me : but it will show
the Princess what is the matter with her
future husband, and teach her, if she be a
girl of mind, how to cure him.'

Upon my giving Isabel's message to
the Prince he exclaimed : ' Lock up the
book-stuff and nonsense ! What impression
do you think the book made on Miss
Meadowes ? '

A strong impression certainly.'

Well, she is an excellent test of public
opinion. If she have a bias it must be
against me — for she has no longer any idea
of my marrying her, has she ? '

No, indeed,' I answered, feeling rather
indignant.

Then she must undoubtedly have
begun reading the book with hostile feelings,
and if I have won her, I can win a

mass of readers. Why, I would not for
the world renounce publishing the book.'
(He was excited, and walked about the
hotel room blowing rapid clouds from a
cigarette.) ' Some of your Princes and
ministers were talking with me about it
at Marlborough House, and all showed
curiosity about it. Nobody dissuaded me.
Why, in this country everybody writes
books. Your Queen does.'

'Yes, but not about the problems of
Government'

VOL. II 28

The Princess Blanche and her mother
came to Windsor on a visit, and Prince
Frederick lost no time in going to see
them. Being prepared for new mysteries,
I was agreeably disappointed to see the
Prince pay his court in the most open
manner. One morning we travelled to
Windsor together, and on reaching the
Royal borough were met at the station by
a Court carriage, which drove us over the
short distance to the Castle. Here the
Prince told me to wander where I pleased
for a couple of hours and then join him.

But on several subsequent occasions I
entered the palace with him, and twice
was regularly invited there to a luncheon
and a dinner.

I noticed, however, that the Court
Newsmen, most truthful of chroniclers,
omitted to record the Prince's daily visits.
He only mentioned the dinner, on which
occasion the Prince, Stolz, and I slept at
the Castle.

After his first call the Prince returned
in good spirits but abstracted.

I am fighting against cobwebs,' he
said ; ' there are no serious obstacles to
my marriage, but a pack of trifles. They
want me to become reconciled with
Hochort, to send my lions to the Zoological
Gardens, and my Montenegrins to
their mountains. They tell me I ought to
join in army manoeuvres, and raise myself

In Bismarck's esteem. And of course they
are dreadfully alarmed about my book.'

He said nothing more then ; but when
he presented me to the Princess Blanche
on the day when I lunched at the Castle,
he put a hand on my shoulder, and remarked
lightly —

This is the man who wants me to
throw my book Into the fire, and he
thinks just as you do about the lions and
Montenegrins.'

The Princess smiled very graciously.
She was really a winsome little thing — the
daughter of a good mother, and herself
good to the core. I could not well discern
whether she had will power enough to
control the Prince, for she was in love
with him, and hung upon every word he
uttered. He too was very fond of her.
The best qualities of his nature came out

in the delicate attentions which he paid
her, and in his well-bred deference towards
her mother.

But he remained extraordinarily obstinate
about his book. There was in him
the vanity of the author and the infatuated
longing to pay out some of the enemies
who had traduced him. In his horror of
being thought a fool he was intent upon
committing the most egregious folly : and
this without being steeled against the
consequences, but simply shutting his eyes
so as to nerve himself.

The highest influences at our Court were
being exerted to bring about his marriage
on condition only that he would mend
his manners. Nothing could have been
more tender than the maternal solicitude
shown him, and he ought to have been
proud of the fact that none of the counter-influences

set in operation by his enemies
intimidated the august ladies, whose object
was to reclaim him and make him happy.

But the Prince spoke of all this kindness
as of attempts to make him ' dress up
in line.'

Talk of drilling ! ' he said ; ' why, I
don't believe any race of men are so much
sergeant as modern princes. They must
all stand in a row *' at attention," be of
exactly the same size, march at the word
of command, and hold their tongues. No
talking in the ranks.'

There are some compensations though,
sir, in the metier de prince! I replied. We
were walking at the time up and down the
embankment near our hotel — a favourite
stroll of the Prince's in odd half-hours.

What ? do you think we don't grow
tired of seeing people accost us with bent

backs ?' he exclaimed, stopping and leaning
on the parapet ; ' and when you take this
homage from us, what remains in our
lives? Why, I'll tell you a secret, Meredith
; one of my private longings has always
been to kick a Great Chamberlain.'

For doing his duty, sir ? '

No, for appearing to take such a
delight in his business of preventing other
people from approaching us. It would be
poor sport, however, after all, for I know
some Chamberlains whose faces would
never let you guess what had happened at
their extremities.'

'Will your Royal Highness allow me
to make a remark ? ' I said. ' Of all the
miserable people upon earth, kings who
have lost their crowns are the most unhappy.
There must be sweets in royalty
beyond the understanding of us who have

never tasted them, but certain it is that
deposed monarchs pass their days in fretting.
Why then add yourself to the
number of these wretched beings by an
act which you would regret as soon as you
had committed it ? '

You talk rather easily of my losing the
crown,' answered the Prince, with a touch
of hauteur in his voice. ' Do you suppose
that if I were deprived of my rights I
should be snuffed out ? My cousin Wolfgang
might reign, but I should be the lawful
king, and I should have partisans, and
I should intrigue, plot, fight, and stir up
civil war till I had got my own again and
hanged old Hochort. I shouldn't mind the
excitement of such a life, and the vengeance
after victory would be a delicate
dish.'

He chuckled in saying this, as though

he were a very vindictive person, which
in truth he was not, though he had his
moments during which it would not have
done to trust him with a gibbet. As I
had now been for months in the Prince's
service he practised no concealment about
his moods. He was often short-tempered
and imperious ; but in his sentimental
periods courted frankness of opinion, and
could bear anything that was said to him
if it were said in kindness. I have seen
him come away from the Princess Blanche
with tears in his eyes ; and now, after
regaling himself with the idea of stretching
poor Count Hochort's lean neck in a slip
noose, he lapsed silent, and gazed at the
boats steaming up and down the river till
a dreamy look stole over his face.

Better to go with the stream, no
doubt,' he murmured. ' Look at that

fellow sculling by himself in that cockle
boat against wind and tide — what pitifully
hard work it is ! See on the other hand
that steamer making the water bound to
right and left as it cuts its way down the
current. By the by, all the good people
on board that steamer would be a mere
mouthful in the jaws of civil war. Men
women, and children, they wouldn't represent
one-half the dead, the widows, and
the orphans produced by a couple of hours'
good street fighting.'

I liked this mood better than the other,
and said so.

Well,' exclaimed the Prince, ' I daresay
that if I marry the Princess Blanche I
shall turn clement. But if this match is
marred for me I shall turn wild beast.'

The day came when the Prince, Stolz,
and I were to dine at Windsor Castle.

Our costume was to be evening dress, with
knee breeches and black silk stockings.
Stolz, who had never worn garments of
this description, had ordered the breeches
at short notice of a tailor, who had made
them so extremely tight that while we
were standing in the White Drawing-room
just before dinner amid the whole Court, he
threw an unutterable glance at me, and
remarked —

If de Queen drop her fan before me
this evening I shall not back it up.'

'No?'

No, because if I wicked it ub my
breeches would crack.'

The dinner was in honour of one of the
Royal family birthdays, and although no
State banquet, there were fifty covers, and
the table was laid in St. George's Hall —
the grand investment chamber of the

Knights of the Garter. Prince Frederick
sat next to the Princess Blanche ; Stolz
and I were paired off with maids of
honour, who had little badges of scarlet
ribbon with medallion portraits of the
Queen on their shoulders. My maid of
honour was a young lady with a pert,
pretty face, and no small opinion of herself.
She made haste to pay out the names of a
duke and two earls, near relations of hers,
to see what change I could tender ; but as
I could afford nothing better than a bishop,
a baronet, and a brewer, there was a
minute of chilling reserve. The soup
caused a thaw, and Lady Emmeline — as I
think her name was— condescended to give
me little scraps of conversation as she
might have thrown bits of biscuits to a
poodle. She informed me that it was the
talk of the Castle that Prince Frederick

and the Princess Blanche were to be formally
engaged that evening.

Isn't she sweet ? ' she added.

Yes, we're all sweet ' I said.

I don't understand,' and Lady Emmeline's
eyebrows became like two circumflex
accents.

'We're all sweet upon her. I had not
finished my sentence.'

Oh, very clever. You make jokes, I see. '

Don't call that a joke.'

We became gradually friends, and presently
her maiden ladyship said —

*I call Prince Frederick handsome.'

You are at it again, calling people
names.'

Oh, but I shan't speak at all if you
take me up like that.'

You mustn't be taken up and you can't
be taken down.'

Do I want taking down ? '

A peg

Thank you.'

'A pegasus might carry you on his
wings to the seventh heaven, and I
shouldn't think you out of place. That's
what I meant to say.'

Oh, very good, but I don't like
words with double meanings. What can
be the matter with your friend Count
Stolz?'

Stolz's maid of honour was a brunette
who seemed able to make nothing of the
giant sitting bolt upright and cold by her
side. She contrived to drop her napkin.
He half turned his head, looked down
upon the object with his left eye, but made
no other move. A little puzzled, I suppose,
she let fall her gloves ; upon which
Stolz ejaculated —

I shall not back up dose dings : but I
cannot tell you vy.'

Pray do not trouble yourself,' answered
the surprised brunette.

If you were a man I would tell you de
reason,' proceeded Stolz ; 'but you are a
young lady, so I cannot. It would not be
broker.'

The brunette blushed up to the eyes,
and Stolz was allowed to finish his dinner
undisturbed.

That fine gallery of pictures and portraits,
the Waterloo Room, had been
lighted up, and the company repaired to it
after dinner. The Queen, after saying a
kindly word or two to everybody in turn,
retired early, but the other members of the
Royal family remained, and among the
ladies and gentlemen of the Court much
talking in a low voice was carried on about

Prince Frederick and the Princess. The
pair walked about and sat together. She
looked often at a ring, evidently a present
of his, and there was a modest confusion in
her mantling cheeks and downcast eyes
when he took leave of her for the night,
kissing her hand in the German fashion.
Very pretty eyes had the Princess Blanche,
with a sweet mouth and a gentle manner,
at once lively and graceful. When she
withdrew with her mother she turned at
the door and made a deep curtsey tous
all, as though divining that she had
been the object of marked notice all the
evening.

As for Prince Frederick, I had never
seen him in such joyous animation, but he
made no confidences to Stolz or me as we
escorted him to his apartments. Next
morning, however, after breakfast (which

we took in our respective rooms) he sent
word that he wished me to go for a walk
with him on the terraces of the Castle.

We came to the terrace which overlooks
the Home Park, and whence such a
superb view is seen of Eton, with the
broad Thames winding among fields,
lawns, and trees. The scenery was lit
up on this particular day by a red October
sun, slowly dispelling a haze that
rolled in white clouds along the river.
The air was sharp, but Prince Frederick
removed his round hat as if the breeze
were refreshing to his brow. He then
said, speaking in German, as was his
custom in serious emergencies —

'Well, Meredith, the die is cast. I am

to fall into rank, and be like other princes

so far as I can. If you have ever felt

anxieties about my future destinies — and it
VOL. II 29

Strikes me you have — you may now dispel
them.'

May I be the first to congratulate
your Royal Highness?' I said, sincerely
pleased.

Yes, I accept your congratulations,' he
replied, holding out his hand ; ' but all is
not over yet. I have to make my peace
with old Hochort — not that this will be
of much use, for it will never propitiate
the King, who wants to see my cousin
Ursula reign. However, I have promised
; and I am to put my house in
order and to take my duties as general au
adieux. Lastly, I am to give up my book ;
the contents are forgiven beforehand ; but
I have pledged my word of honour not
to publish without permission.'

Believe me, sir, this will be for the
best,' I said.

I suppose I shall end by thinking so,'
he replied. ' Meanwhile I must ask you to
get the book back from Miss Meadowes.
She can be trusted, I am sure, not to
speak of what it contains ? '

Undoubtedly she may, sir.'

We returned to London a couple of
hours after this in a train which carried
most of the Castle guests, and at Padding-ton
I parted from the Prince, taking a
hansom and driving at once to Park Lane
to call upon Isabel.

The footman informed me that Lord
Springfield and Miss Meadowes were both
not at home.' But something struck mein
the man's manner ; so I left a card,
pencilling on it a few words to say
that I should call later in the afternoon
; and turning away, I walked slowly
down the street, so that, if I had been

denied admittance by error, I might be
recalled.

I reached the end of the street, and
walked back to pass the house once more.
Half-way I was met by Isabel, who had
hurriedly put on a hat, and came towards me
breathlessly. Her features were agonised.

You found my note at your hotel ? '
she asked.

No ; I have not been there.'

Good heavens ! how shall I tell you
what has happened ? My mother has
taken the Prince's book.'

Taken it to keep, do you mean ? '

Yes, she came home last night, and took
it from me. I could die for the shame of
it,' faltered Isabel; 'but come in and see
her yourself.'

She led me into the house half running,
and we went upstairs to a little boudoir.

where Lady Springfield, cool as a strawberry,
sat on a divan holding the Morning
Post at arm's length, and reading it
through a pair of glasses set on a tortoiseshell
handle. Her ladyship, who was far
from old, and had not many years previously
been accounted a beauty, had
piercing eyes and a resolute chin. She
dressed in dark-hued silks which rustled
prodigiously, and her head was draped ina
kind of black lace mantilla.

If ever triumphant spite showed itself
in a woman's face it did in Lady Springfield's,
as she said to me in a tone of
polite asperity —

How do you do. Captain Meredith '^
You have come about the manuscript
which you lent to this foolish child ; but
it's of not the slightest use. Prince
Frederick played me a trick, and I have

played him one. You may tell him this
from me.'

I trust you will reconsider this matter,
Lady Springfield,' I expostulated. ' It is
of the greatest importance that the Prince
should have the manuscript immediately.'

Reason the more for my detaining it,
then. I shall do with the book what I
please ; but in any case, make the use of
it which may be most displeasing to the
Prince. You may tell him this again from
me.'

Mamma, the disgrace of this is intolerable,'
pleaded Isabel, with clasped hands
and brimming eyes ; ' the book was confided
to my honour.'

Honour, fiddlestick and fiddle dee ! '
retorted Lady Springfield. ' A young
lady's honour is not compromised because
her mother confiscates improper books

lent to her by bachelors. I am ashamed
of you, Captain Meredith. Now go away,
and mind you give the Prince my messages.
If he understands French, you
can tell him que je hi rends un client de
sa chienne.'

I shall have to refer this to Lord
Springfield,' I said In a tone which was
Intended to be Indignant, but which I suspect
showed far more of perplexity and
dismay.

Yes, by all means go and see Lord
Springfield,' cried her ladyship aloud, as
though she were suddenly addressing
somebody out of the window. 'You will
find him at the Carlton.'

To the Carlton I went, and In a nice
frame of mind. After I had waited a few
minutes In the hall. Lord Springfield came
out charmingly composed and amiable,

after his wont, and looking, besides, unaffectedly
sympathetic.

I am really sorry for this, my dear
Meredith,' he said, patting one of my
hands paternally between the two of his ;
but I must tell you from the outset that I
cannot interfere. Prince Frederick has
made an enemy of my lady, and she is
revenging herself in her own way.'

But the seizure of this book may have
most serious consequences,' I answered.

No doubt, but Lady Springfield has
always been doing things that led to most
serious consequences. If she had not I
should now be an ambassador. I cannot,
however, engage for Prince Frederick's
sake in a wrangle with my wife.'

But really I must ask you to remonstrate
with Lady Springfield.'

My dear fellow, she would defy a battalion

of guards. The best thing you can
do is to wait. She cannot well publish
the book, though I should not be astonished
if she made a bonfire of it.'

I tried one more appeal. 'You must
see, Lord Springfield, that my own position
in this is most embarrassing.'

I do ; and it is because I feel that my
lady spites you, owing to your kind conduct
to my daughter — for which I am
most grateful — that I am disposed to give
you what assistance I can. Shall I call on
the Prince with you and explain matters ? '

I wish you would,' I answered ; upon
which Lord Springfield drew on a pair of
lavender gloves, had his glossy hat well
brushed by a page, and set out with me,
arm-in-arm, for the hotel.

I DO not know whether Prince Frederick
was so angry as he pretended to be. Defiance
and any reproach of being in the
wrong always put him in a great passion
for the moment ; but secretly he must have
felt that Lady Springfield's dishonourable
act absolved him from any further remorse
about his past conduct towards Isabel ;
and then he may have cherished a secret
gratification that the disposal of his book
had now been taken out of his own hands.
He did not spare Lord Springfield his
taunts, but the old diplomatist received

them with the most easy forbearance.
The interview ended with the Prince's
threatening to make a complaint to the
police — a threat which was, of course, idle.
A foreign prefect of police could have sent
his agents to pay her ladyship a domiciliary
visit in the night, and they might have
recovered the manuscript without the
slightest publicity ; but in England, where
the liberty of the subject is hedged in withall
kinds of antiquated defences, police
action involves proceedings in open court,
and the Prince, upon examining the subject,
saw that he could not make a move without
raising a scandal.

He turned his taunts upon me when
Lord Springfield was gone. Having displeasure
to vent, he never took pains to
control himself, but turned a tapful of
boiling invective upon the first person at

hand. I had answered for Isabel's integrity,
but she was nothing, he vowed,
but a common adventuress. Who could
tell that she and her mother were not acting
together in this plot ? As for Lady
Springfield, it was notorious that she
earned pocket - money by contributing*
society gossip to newspapers ; she had
been caught in the act when her husband
was in the diplomatic service, and there
could be no doubt that she would now try
to turn her theft to pecuniary account.
During the rest of that evening, which we
spent at a theatre, the Prince remained so
sulky that it was disagreeable to be in his
company.

But his was a mercurial temperament,
so next day he was himself again, and
seemed disposed to take a humorous view
of his misadventure. We were going to

Windsor for a few hours, and as we started
I showed him a letter which the post had
brought me from Isabel.

Park Lane, 22d October.

Dear Captain Meredith — I have had a painful
scene with my mother, and told her that the relations
between us could never again be what they were unless
she restored Prince Frederick's manuscript. IMy father
has also spoken more severely than I had ever heard
him speak, and I trust my mother is shaken. I write
this because I know you will not like to call again
while mamma is here, but I wish you to feel assured
that we shall not relax our efforts to prevent any mischief
being done.

My father suggests that mamma may have been
only curious to read the book, and that she has perhaps
no further intention beyond giving us a good
fright. Let us hope so. — Yours faithfully,

Isabel Meadowes.

The Prince merely gave a shrug as he
read the letter. He offered no comment,
but during our short railway journey
showed himself very affable to atone

for his unmannerliness on the previous
evening.

I think the Prince committed a great
mistake at Windsor that day. Instead of
telling the truth about his book he invented
some excuses for not producing it, and the
consequence was that the true story reached
the Castle through one of the Court ladies,
who had it from Lady Springfield herself.
This gave just offence in high quarters,
and conjecture was then started as to
Prince Frederick's reasons for treating
Isabel Meadowes so confidentially as he
had done. Queries on this point led to
other inquiries, whence it came to be ascertained
that the Prince had brought Mira
Vogelsang to England with him, had taken
a furnished house for her at South Kensington,
and often favoured her with his
company to dinner and supper.

I had more than once marvelled at the
Prince's imprudent patronage of Mira
Vogelsang, Referring to my diary I find
the entry ' Prince dined with Missa ' occur
pretty frequently at that period. Sometimes
I accompanied him to her house, but
I did not at all like the company one met
there. Hook-nosed managers, curly-headed
tenors, congresses of the second class,
fat, painted, and passes, formed Mira's
court, and they treated the Prince with
a mixture of flattery and familiarity which
was irritating to witness. The equerry
or secretary of a prince can never be
popular among such people, for he cannot
unbend among them as his master
does. Were he to adapt himself to their
style he would find it difficult to recover
the proper tone when alone with
his master ; and if he does not adopt

their style his presence acts as a wet
blanket.

Mira was having a success in London,
and the Prince enjoyed the adulation that
was paid her. She was an artistic product
of his own creating. He had often told
me that he had discovered her in a Vienna
music hall. Struck with her singing, he
had provided her with good masters, had
procured her an engagement at the Court
Opera of Sabelburg, and had forced her
upon the unwilling public of Kronheim.
Mira had repaid him by bravely holding
her own in the position to which he had
raised her. The girl had a magnificent
voice, and it improved daily in training,
just as her physical charms expanded under
good living. Passing from a diet of ham
and raw apples to rich soups, joints, and
wines, she had in three or four years so

developed in stature, bust, arms, and figure
as to be a splendid creature. Her photographs
in the London shop windows
wrought fascination upon lean young
gentlemen and shrivelled elderly beaux,
who were admirers of the fleshy order of
beauty, and every evening bouquets, notes,
and sometimes bracelets, were left for herat
the stage door of her Majesty's.

Moreover, Mira's London success gave
her a reputation. At one bound she passed
from local renown to European celebrity.
Five-year summer engagements in London
with provincial touring engagements were
pressed upon her, and a Berlin manager
crossed the Channel on purpose to hear
her. All this was extremely gratifying to
the Prince, who read everything that the
critics wrote, and often made me translate

their articles for Mira's perusal, prior to
VOL. II ^o

cutting them out of the papers and pasting
them in an album.

The Prince treated Mira very kindly,
and to her he was always the lord and
master. Not a clever girl, but thoroughly
good-natured, gay, and obedient, she knew
his moods as a nurse does a child's. A
glance at him when he entered the room
was enough to tell her whether she could
be familiar or ought to make a hush around
him as in a sick chamber. If he looked
serious she kissed his hand, or curtsied so
that he might touch her forehead with his
lips. She had not the savoir faire which
exactly hits the mean between subserviency
and comradeship, but I think he liked
her equally whether she made him drink
out of her glass or paid him deference with
wistful eyes, or sang ' for him ' before a
crowded house, rendering all her songs

with exactly the expression which he had
taught her to put into them. Whatever
she did she was his slave, and it never
entered her mind to be jealous of him.
She knew that he must marry some day,
and whether he were married or single,
she would remain his slave all the same.
Pecuniarily she was independent of his
caprices, for he had acted most generously
in providing her with a fine income for
life. Besides this, he was always giving
her costly presents of jewellery and dresses.
In all that he did for Mira the Prince
saw no harm. He never could see harm
in what he did : but a widely different view
of the case was taken by those in whose
good opinion he just then desired to stand
well. I find an entry in my diary which
runs : ' Took Mira for a walk. The Prince
to Windsor with Stolz. Exposure. Explosion!

Very well do I remember all the incidents
of the day to which that entry refers.

The Prince received a summons to
Windsor by telegram in the morning, and
took a fancy for going down on horseback
with Stolz — the Royal stables supplying
mounts for the occasion. Mira Vogelsang
was to sing next day, for the first time in
London, the part of Valentine in the
Huguenots, and the Prince had promised
the manager to attend a morning rehearsal.
Being unable to do so, he sent me, and
appointed a meeting between us at Mira's
house towards six. We were then to
dine, and finish the evening by visiting
the Houses of Parliament, which were
enjoying an autumn session.

I escorted Mira to the rehearsal, which
lasted till about two, after which I took her
to a restaurant, where she ate a regular

dinner, beginning with two dozen oysters,
for singing made her hungry. She had
some shopping to do, and we walked about
Bond Street till nearly four, when it came
on to rain. This drove us home. The sky
had been overcast all day, and the shower
soon settled into a steady downpour.

It was not worth while going back to
my hotel only to return at six o'clock, so I
sat down by a window in Mira's drawing-room
reading newspapers, while she studied
the words of her new part and hummed
snatches of the music, beating time gravely
with her forefinger.

I made sure that the rain would compel
Prince Frederick to return from Windsor
by train, and bring him back sooner than
he had appointed ; but towards six darkness
came on and he was not back, the
street lamps were lighted, and dinner was

ready. Mira, who was never disturbed
by punctuality (she was too much of a
Viennese for that), placidly gazed out of
the window and pitied the people who
were trudging through puddles.

At last, towards seven, there was a
rapid clattering of hoofs down the street,
and the Prince dashed up to the door with
Stolz and a groom following behind, all
three reeking wet. The Prince alone dismounted.
Stolz, calm as usual, lifted his
hat, and rode away with the groom, who
led the Prince's hack.

Mira and I went down to meet the
Prince, and the poor girl uttered ' Liber
Simnel! ' as she saw him stand on the
door-mat with water dripping from every
part of him. But his pale frowning face
and set lips checked further exclamations.

Fetch a cab,' he said hoarsely to one of

the servants, and then sent Mira away to
prepare him some tea with rum in it, while
he walked into the dining-room, where the
table was laid. He sighed heavily as he
muttered something about having galloped
all the way from Windsor ; and for nearly
five minutes he stood by the fire warming
his hands and shivering slightly, while the
moisture rose from his weet clothes in
clouds.

I'm done for again, Meredith,' he said
at last. ' It's about Mira this time, and all
sorts of other things besides the book. I'm
looked upon as a reprobate, and everybody
gives me up. The Princess leaves England
tomorrow.'

And your engagement, sir ? '

Broken off! '

Mira came in with the tea, and the
Prince drank it standing. He said nothing

to her about his troubles, but patted her on
the shoulder and asked her some questions
about her part. Twice he looked at his
watch and said we must be going, but he
lingered by the fire and seemed unwilling
to go.

At length he roused himself and reminded
me of our appointment at the
House of Commons. He walked towards
the door, but of a sudden turned round
with a laugh that was nearly a scream,
beat the air with his hands, and fell
heavily on the floor.

It was nothing but a fainting fit. Mira
frantically lifted him up in her arms, and
raised her voice to its loudest stage pitch
in shrieking for help ; but before the useless
footmen had hurried in the Prince was
recovering. We sat him in an arm-chair ;
and Mira, with one of her arms round him
to prop him up, pressed a bottle of salts to
his nostrils. The footmen brought brandy,
I rubbed his hands, which were chilled, and
in a few minutes he was all right, though
nervous about what had happened, for he
was always anxious about his owen health.

Do you think it was apoplexy ? ' he
asked, looking keenly at me.
No, sir ; only a swoon.'
It's the first time such a elinor has

o

ever occurred to me,' he said, standing up
and feeling himself all over. 'If it were
apoplexy you would say so, wouldn't you ?
for I ouo^ht to know the truth.'

Reassured by my manner, he insisted on
returning to the hotel. Mira, who had
been frightened, pressed him eagerly to
stay, but he would not. What he really
wanted was a warm bath, a change of
clothes, and some dinner, for he had not
eaten since breakfast. When he had had
these things the effects of his chill passed
off, and at ten o'clock he was quite ready
to go to the House of Commons. He
had made an appointment with a Cabinet
Minister, and it was one of his good

points that he hated to break an appointment.


The minister who met us, the Right
Hon. John Robinson, was a man who
had grown hard and gray in parliamentary
work, and was as unlike the common type
of continental ministers as the tough holly
differs from the mimosa. Criticisms and
personal attacks, which would have made
Count Hochort ill, left no traces on his
well - inured cuticle. Daily showers of
newspaper articles fell upon him as rain
on a roof, trickling off and doing no hurt.
He was amenable enough to public opinion
when it blew in gusts ; and to these he
bent as the stoutest tree does. In fact he
was always in a state of bend. His communications
were never yea, yea, and nay,
nay, but affirmatives qualified by negatives,
and negatives enrolled in coils of explanations.

He had such a deep knowledge of
parliamentary ways that In marking out
the course of a Bill from the first reading
to the Royal assent, he allowed for time
on the scale which might be reckoned by
a man who proposed to walk from the
Nelson Column to Westminster Hall byway
of Whitechapel, Brixton, and High-gate
; and his calculations of public monies
for any public object were on the same
assumption, namely, that three-fourths of
the money would be wasted. He was in
charge of a great State department, but
had no time to learn its business ; for during
the session he was constantly employed
in preparing speeches on whatever great
Bill (not concerning his department) happened
to be before the House ; and during
the recesses he travelled about the country
on the stump. He spoke no language but

English, and could not have stated where
Natal was without consulting a map. If
he had known for certain where Natal was,
he would not have trusted his memory, but
would have spoken from a note, lest he
should make a mistake in the longitude
and give a point to the Opposition. He
kept a secretary, whose only business it
was to instruct him to dodge questions
which were put to trip him up. Taking
him all in all, Mr. Robinson was an honest
English gentleman with a great deal of
outward bluffness — a man of property,
keen as a file in all his personal affairs,
religious on Sunday mornings, overworked
but happy in his way all the
year round, and having, like other politicians,
two compasses of quite different
sensitiveness by which he guided his
conduct — his regard for truth and his

sense of fair-play — In public or in private
life.

Mr. Robinson took us to the Distinguished
Strangers' Gallery, and there
presently came up a throng of M.p's
and peers to speak to the Prince — among
them Mr. Lemesurier, the Radical with
the white hat, red tie, and eyeglass who
was going to marry Connie Davenant.

I must here mention that since we came
to London I had thought often enough of
Connie, but had never been able to obtain
much information about her. London
society is composed of so many circles that
people who are ' in society ' may be absolute
strangers to all the haunts of others
who are ' in society ' too. Beyond having
heard that Connie was soon to be married
I knew nothing, for I had met nobody who
was acquainted with her.

Lemesurier wanted me to present him
to the Prince — which I did. While waiting
his turn for a Httle conversation, he said,
You'll find Mrs. and Miss Davenant in
the Ladies' Gallery. They have come to
hear a speech.'

A speech of yours, I suppose ? '

I don't know ; perhaps I shall say a
few words.'

The announcement of Connie's presence
left me cool, for what was the use of thinking
further about her ? Possibly her heart
fluttered as she saw me through the grating,
and possibly I kept my eyes away from that
grating on purpose ; but so many things had
happened since we last met, and our paths
were so "divergent, that it would only have
been a waste of emotion to renew acquaintanceship
for a few minutes. What man
cares to meet the girl who was his darling

and was to have been his wife ? The gulf
between what is and what was to have
been is so deep and wide that, although
sighs and looks of regret may reach across
it, one had much better avoid making
these unavailing signals from shore to
shore.

Lemesurier had his turn of chatting
with the Prince, and ingratiated himself, for
he was clever and interesting. England
alone produces such politicians as this
gentleman. A man of good old family,
educated at Eton and Oxford, having a
fine estate and plenty of money derived
from good investments, he had espoused
extreme Radicalism partly from biliousness
of temperament and partly from cool, calculating
ambition. Not being dependent
upon his land for an income, he could
advocate all sorts of experiments with the

lands of others ; and the inciting of other
men's tenants to discontent enabled him to
be very strict with his own. He was
always on the side of law-breakers, though
careful not to break the law himself. He
did not join with the London mobs who
plundered West End shops, nor with the
Irish rabble who stoned the police at
evictions, cut off the tails of cows, and
butchered old men after dark under the
eyes of shrieking women ; but he spoke up
for the miscreants who did these things.
He had no religion, patriotism, or loyalty ;
but the correctness of his private life covered
his tolerance of blasphemy, and gave
an appearance of strong mindedness to his
systematic depreciation of England in its
foreign and colonial relations, and to his
rancorous encouragement of attacks against

the Queen and Royal family. In the
VOL. II 31

House of Commons Lemesurier spoke like
a gentleman ; on public platforms like a
blackguard. So far from feeling that his
superior education bound him to instruct
his ignorant hearers, he not only pandered
to their prejudices, but deliberately endeavoured
to convert their good-natured
grumbles against inevitable social inequalities
into savage outcries against the classes
whose wealth is the fruit of intelligence,
enterprise, and labour. Such, however, is
the confusion in our English ideas of right
and wrong, where politics are concerned,
that this man, who in most continental
countries would have been shunned by
every gentleman of honour, had friends in
all ranks. He went to Court, associated
with princes and men of science, and was
generally regarded as a politician who,
when next his party came into office, must

certainly be chosen as one of the advisers
of the Crown.

Lemesurier, seated beside Prince frederick,
and with his eyeglass jauntily cocked
in his left eye, was explaining to him the
business before the House. ' The first
Legislature in the World ' had been engaged
for two hours over one of those Irish
interlocutory motions which are intended
to stop business.

The Government was being asked to
declare by what right the patent leather
boots of an Irish patriot, imprisoned for
sedition, had been removed from his cell.
The venerable Opposition leader, who
when in power had imprisoned hundreds
of Irishmen without trial, and roundly
ordered that rebels against him should be
treated like ordinary felons, declared, in a
voice trembling with fury, that the civilisation

of the nineteenth century was disgraced
when rebels against the party
opposed to him were made to wear prison
clothes. Another statesman out of office,
a fat man, who when Home Secretary had
kept a bodyguard of police to protect him
from Irishmen, vowed that Poland had better
treatment than Ireland — a statement which
made the Russian ambassador in the gallery
look as modest as an old ballet dancer receiving
a wreath of orange flower blossoms.
At last the Irishman's boots were put out
of the way, and Lemesurier went downstairs
to make an attack upon Mr. Robinson,
with whom he had spoken a few minutes
before in the gallery on terms of easy
friendship.

It was not oratory this speaking of
Lemesurier's. The man had a bundle of
papers : he stammered and hawed, the

House thinned, some of the remaining
members cried ' Hear, hear,' others 'Oh!'
but the reporters in the gallery went on
scribbling, and this was all that Lemesurier
wanted. His charge against Robinson —
if it meant anything — was one of downright
lying and dishonesty, but he kept on
calling Robinson the ' right honourable
gentleman.' ' The right honourable gentleman,'
he said, ' has been clearly convicted
of misstatements which I cannot but
characterise as inconsistent with any
standard of good faith.' Mr. Robinson
rose to answer, and the House filled. His
reply, if it meant anything, amounted to
a charge that Lemesurier had wilfully lied
by stating facts which he knew to be false,
and suppressing information which was
within his knowledge, and which would
convince all the world that he was merely

telling spiteful falsehoods. But he kept
on calling Lemesurier ' my honourable
friend.' ' My honourable friend,' he said,
has once more given us a proof of his
remarkable capacity for making black
appear white.' After this the subject
dropped, and nobody appeared to think a
penny the worse of Lemesurier or of
Robinson.

Won't those two men cut each other's
throats now ?' asked the Prince of me; but
when it was explained to him that Robinson
would gladly have given his daughter
in marriage to Lemesurier, and that Leme-
surer had lately subscribed towards a
Joint Stock Company's testimonial of
esteem to Robinson, he lifted up his
hands. * If I ever get my book back,' he
said laughing, ' I must add a footnote to
my chapter on Parliaments.'

Sad as Prince Frederick was, this evening
in the House of Commons did him
good. It was really more amusing than a
farce. We stayed till past midnight, and
the weather having cleared, walked home
arm-in-arm along the Embankment. On
the way the Prince had an outburst of
merriment. I had said something about
the variableness of our climate, when he
exclaimed laughing —

Don't you think you could manage
the climate better on your parliamentary
system ? Imagine the Celestial Powers
leaving you English to settle your weather
for yourselves. Can't you picture Mr.
Robinson introducing a Climate Reform
Bill, and that Grand Old Man with the
shirt collars denouncing winter as an invention
of the Tories, and that demagogue
— the fat man — swearing there

should be no more darkness to make the

poor buy candles, and Mr. Lemesurier

promising to convert Britain into a land of

oranges and olives without any oppressive

sunshine to make the working-men perspire
? '

He developed this idea with great glee
till we reached the hotel, when he felt too
wide awake to go to bed. He seemed
unwilling to be left alone with his own
thoughts. We had a very large suite of
apartments on the first floor, and the
Prince had never entered any of the
public rooms ; but now he suddenly
proposed that we should turn into the
smoking-room and have a drink.

I shouldn't mind some Scotch whisky,'
he said, settling into a comfortable armchair,
and throwing an admiring look
round the spacious room, where a number

of visitors were lounging. ' This is just
the place for a talk. I should like some
of my cigarettes though.'

I said I would go upstairs to fetch him
the cigarettes, and also to see if any letters
had come. The first thing I saw on the
table in the drawing-room was a parcel
with Lady Springfield's card under the
string.

It contained the Prince's manuscript,
and on the card these words were
pencilled —

Lady Springfield returns Captain meredith his
very dreary manuscript, with the request that he will
send no more such improving literature into her
house.

I tore up the card, but it was with the
greatest elation that I took the parcel
down to the smoking - room. At the
moment I clean forgot all the good reasons

there were for pitching this unhappy book
into the fire, and thought only that there
might yet be time to send the manuscript
to Windsor.

Gottt sei Dank !' ejaculated the Prince,
as he caught at the parcel, and during a
minute or two his eyes kindled with excitement.
Having looked to see that none of
the pages were missing, he drank off
his whisky, and made some disconnected
remarks about sending a special messenger
to Windsor in the morning. Then his
spirits gradually fell, and he put the parcel
on the table with a sigh.

'It's too late,' he muttered; 'and it
would be of no use. There's that affair
about Mira, and a number of other things,
which have been divulged about me. Will
you touch the bell and ask the waiter for
some more of that stuff with soda ? my

throat is parched.' The waiter brought
the refreshment, and the Prince took a
deep draught out of the tall tumbler.

I've reached a turning-point in my
life, Meredith,' he said, with heightened
colour. ' I'm beaten again, and heaven
knows what I shall do next. I must take
a few days to think over it. Till to-day I
had hopes ; now I have none. At present
I'm in the mind to abandon all my rights
if only those who want to see me out of
the way will leave me alone. Once I have
stepped aside '

I hope you will think many times over
that,' I said.

I may perhaps think too long and
live to repent it,' was his answer. ' King
Franz looks as if he had years of life before
him, and while I am waiting for his crown
my days are wasted in useless struggles

and fits of impotent rage. Why not fling
the crown to those who want it, and strike
out a new path for myself? I am rich.
I can live where I please, and do as I
please. I might found a kingdom for myself
while I am young enough to enjoy it.
Bulgaria, Macedonia, and Albania are
open fields. There are combustible materials
there which it only requires a spark
to light, and armies which need only money
to set them marching. If my fate as an
heir-presumptive has only been to lose character,
let me at least show that I am better
than my reputation, and do something before
I die to leave a name in history.'

Might I only advise you to have
patience ? ' I pleaded.

Patience must have an object,' he
answered, emptying his glass. ' If I cease
to care for the throne of Kronheim, what

then ? I am never likely to marry now,
unless I find a new love in some new
country where I can found a new dynasty.
Leave me to this dream for to-night.
Perhaps it may vanish — perhaps not. But
don't be surprised if I call upon you to
back my fortunes in some dare-devil enterprise
where your drawn sword will be of
use.'

I told him that my sword was at his
service, and he said with one of his princely
nods as he rose from his chair —

Well, if you once draw it for me, it
shall have good work to do.'

There was at that time staying in London
a Bulgarian politician named Oiloff. He
had been sent on a strolling mission to try
and raise a loan and to find a well-to-do
prince willing to rule over Bulgaria. He
was a plump and jolly little fellow, who
could sing the praises of his country inmost
European languages, and a hazard
enabled him to sing them in Prince
Frederick's ear.

The Prince met him at a party and
invited him to call. Oiloff did so, and then
repeated his visits daily. He and the

Prince were often closeted for hours, and
I was told nothing of what passed at these
interviews till one day the Prince informed
me that he had made up his mind to goon
a tour through the Balkan countries.

It will amuse me to see the East,' he
said. ' I haven't given Oiloff any promise,
but if I find Bulgaria to my liking I daresay
I shall accept the Bulgarian crown.
Will you go with me ? '

'With pleasure,' I answered. The
prospect of a pleasant trip was near. The
acceptation of the Bulgarian crown seemed
a very remote contingency.

Well then, we will wait till I get letters
from Kronheim saying when my sister's
marriage is to take place, and make our
arrangements accordingly.'

There was some little hitch, as it
appeared, about Princess Dot's marriage.

The real trouble concerned settlements,
but as this would have been an unchivalrous
reason to allege, the Grand-duke
Rothbart pretended to be smitten
with religious misgivings. Princess Dot's
Lutheran theology was said to be not yet
sufficiently firm to satisfy the Grand-duke's
mother. Its firmness varied in
aspect according as the Princess seemed
disposed to retain hold of her fortune or tolet
the largest part of it fall under the
Grand-duke's control. At the time when
Prince Frederick spoke to me his sister
was for eschewing all romance in her
money affairs, that is, she wished to keep
the bulk of her fortune for herself.

The Prince, who wanted to get the
marriage over, wrote advising her to yield ;
and meanwhile he continued to amuse
himself in London. But he abruptly

broke off his relations with Mira Vowels
Without bearing her any grudge
for the unwilling share which she had
taken in destroying his engagement with
the Princess Blanche, he perceived the
propriety of dissociating his name from
hers. I think he also persuaded himself
that she was an unlucky element in his life.
However this may be, he counselled her
to close with a handsome offer for a
provincial touring engagement, and she
submissively did as he ordered.

I was sent to Mira with the letter in
which the Prince made his wishes known
and informed her of some new pecuniary
arrangements which were being settled for
her maintenance — very handsome arrangements.


The poor girl had not seen the Prince

for several days, and as she came into her
VOL. II 32

drawing-room she threw me a quick
eager glance to learn if I were the bearer
of good news.

She kissed the Prince's letter before
opening it, and when she had read it her
eyes filled with tears.

I will do as he desires,' she said softly.
Oh, how sorry I am that his engagement
has been broken off! He had set
his whole heart upon it, and he loved the
Princess so truly.'

'They may come together again,' I
answered, not feeling sure, however, that I
was offering any real consolation by these
words. But poor Mira was quite sincere.

He has been so good to me — so
noble ! ' she exclaimed, as her breast
heaved. 'If I thought he was being
parted from the Princess Blanche because
of me, I would go and throw myself at her

feet and swear that his heart was never
mine — for it was not. Mine was his, but
he never loved me.'

She looked down at her bracelets and
rings, put her hand to a locket round her
neck, and glanced round the room as
though seeking for a parting gift.

Everything here is his,' she ejaculated
helplessly ; ' but will you tell him what
I have said ? I would go back to the
poverty from which he raised me, I would
disappear from Europe and never more be
heard of by him, sooner than stand in his
way. Ach Gottt ! I am crying for his
happiness, not for mine.'

She moved towards a writing-table, for
she said she must write him an answer, lest
a verbal message should make the Prince
imagine that she murmured at his decision.
She wrote only a few lines, and as she

handed me the letter put her handkerchief
to her mouth and nodded to me without a
word. But no language could have proved
her obedience and devotion like that nod.

At about the time when this matter
with Mira was settled, the Prince met
Isabel Meadowes and her mother at a
picture exhibition, and accosted them as if
nothing had happened. To my surprise
Lady Springfield shook hands with him
gushingly, and after a twenty minutes'
chat as they strolled through the galleries
together — Isabel and I walking behind —
invited him to dinner for the next day.
He accepted, and took me with him.
From that dinner — a memorable event tome
— dated the renewal of a close intimacy
between Isabel and the Prince.

My astonishment at seeing the girl
treat him as an old friend, and by rapid

degrees fall again under his spell, was
more than I can describe. The pair sat
and talked about the Prince's book, while
Lady Springfield drew me into a game of
cards. Every now and then this prudent
campaigner shot a sidelong glance at her
daughter, and seemed to be most satisfied
at the progress she was making. Lord
Springfield talked with a brother peer,
who had been the sixth person at the
dinner, and seemed to notice nothing.
For several succeeding days the Prince
met Isabel regularly, either lunching or
dining with Lord Springfield, or meeting
Lady Springfield and her daughter at the
theatre. I was not aware of half their
meetings. When at last I became conscious
of what was passing, the whole
truth — namely, that Isabel's affections were
being reconquered by the Prince — became

revealed to me by her deep blush when
we met.

The girls whole manner was changed.
When she talked with me I had always
found her so sensible ; but she now
appeared to have completely lost her
senses. She seemed ashamed of this in
my presence, but could not struggle against
the overpowering sensations which assailed
her.

Lady Springfield, to whom I was a
hateful person, glanced with a look of
triumph from me to her daughter, as much
as to say : ' You flattered yourself that you
had put these two young people asunder,
but look at them now ! ' The Prince
seemed, if not as much ^J)ris as Isabel, at
least very fairly enthralled. But whither
was this going to lead ? The Springfield
and Isabel were supporting the Prince in

his Bulgarian idea, but at the same time
they were detaining him in London. He
no longer talked of departing, but gave me
leave to go and spend a few days with my
uncle the bishop. My aunt Episcopal
would have been very glad that the Prince
should also accept her invitation, and she
schemed to that effect in writing to me,
but the Prince was not to be drawn from
town. I went down alone to Guildford,
spent three quiet days there, and on my
return to London learned that the Prince
had started for Yorkshire, attended by
Stolz, to have a week's shooting at Lord
Springfield's seat. Isabel and her mother
had, of course, gone too.

The Prince had left instructions that
I should open his letters and telegraph
anything of importance. The first thing
which I had to wire was that the marriage

contract between Princess Dot and her
Grand-duke had at last been drafted to
the general satisfaction, and that — theological
obstacles being thus happily removed
— the marriage had been fixed for
an early date. A couple of days after this
the post brought me an engraved card
filled up in the Princess's own hand and
inviting me to the wedding ceremony and
feast.

A plague on all you girls together ! '
I was tempted to exclaim in my bitterness ;
for I was exceeding sore at Isabel's conduct,
having begun to think of her (before
her reconciliation with the Prince) with
something more than kindness. Connie
Davenant, the Princess Dot, and Isabel
Meadowes were now to me much of a
muchness in my estimate of girlish sense
and constancy.

Evidently the glamour of the Prince's
rank had done it. He had whistled, and
Isabel had dropped like a bird off a
branch on to the wrist of a skilled fowler.
His weaknesses and eccentricities not
less than his high station made him
fascinating to women ; but once again I
could not but marvel how all this was
going to end.

The Bulgarian, Demerits Oiloff, wondered
as much as I did, and kept calling
every day at the hotel to ask when the
Prince was going to return. The little
man was as impatient as Mephistopheles
seeing Faust philander with Margaret.
Bulgaria, he said, was all eager for a
prince, and the times were ripe for a loan.
He knew men in the City who would be
ready to advance half a million sterling if
the Prince would guarantee the interest on

his private fortune ; and his eyes listened
as he spoke of things which Bulgaria could
achieve with half a million. The little
man had a pink chubby face and tight
clothes, which made his arms and legs
look like small bolsters. He was so
cheerful and talkative, so confident in his
figures, so sturdy in his patriotism, that
it was impossible not to sympathise with
him.

I hope you are not trying to dissuade
the Prince from coming to us,' he once
said to me point-blank.

On the contrary, I have promised to
go with him.'

*We want help so much,' declared
Oiloff wistfully. ' Ours is such a fine
country, as you will own when you see it.
Bulgaria might become another Belgium,
and it is not much to ask, is it, that somebody

should step forward and prevent us
from being swallowed up by Russia ?
Think what is the meaning of independence
to us ! Why, if we became Russians,
our young men would be sent away to
serve in Siberian garrisons thousands of
miles off'

I hope, though, your hopes of independence
don't depend on Prince Frederick's
acceptance of your crown ? ' I remarked, for
I had not the slightest belief that Prince
Frederick would part with his rights in
Kronheim for the sake of a shaky Oriental
diadem.

Oh no ! but he might help us to find a
prince if he will not cast in his lot with us.
I have had my eye on him for some time,'
admitted Oiloff naively. ' He is known
as a man of ideas, and the great thing
for us now is to get men of mind to

vouch for us. Europe has no faith in us.
It believes we are Russians at heart —
which we are not. Your English statesmen
have never forgiven us for letting
ourselves be freed from Turkey by Ignatius,
but, you see, one can't pick and
choose the man who is to save one from
drowning.'

I had several conversations of this kind
with M. Oiloff, who could not understand
how the Prince had the presence of mind
to shoot pheasants while Bulgaria was
waiting so anxiously for money. I invited
him to dine at my Club, and we were
joined by Harold Crowe, who had come
over from Kronheim to spend a few weeks
with his friends in England. The artist's
chaffing remarks about Bulgaria were
good-humouredly borne by Oiloff, but at
last put him on his mettle and impelled

him to say such things as rendered us
both silent. Oiloff was the son of a
farmer, and had been educated partly at
that excellent institution, Robert's College,
Constantinople, and partly at a German
university. At eighteen the Turks had
thrown him into prison for conspiracy ; at
twenty they had sentenced him to be
hanged, and he only escaped execution
owing to the outbreak of the Russo-turkish
War. During that war his
father, mother, young brothers and sisters
had all been butchered by Bashi-Bazouks,
and his farm-home had been burnt. He
had himself fought throughout the war
as an officer, had been twice wounded,
and had won a Russian decoration for
bravery on the field. He had subsequent
been elected to the first Bulgarian
Parliament, and had become a

Cabinet Minister. A man with such a
record could not be treated as an adventurer,
but was entitled to every whit as
much respect as our own Robinsons and
Lemesuriers.

Pity the little man is so pudgy,'
observed Harold after Oiloff had left
us. ' One can't imagine so much heroism
in such a well-fed little body. But
I must read up Bulgaria. Isn't there
some idea that the Bulgarians may
revive the Greek Empire at Constantinople
? '

Yes, if they can get rid of the Greeks.'
They'll want a man, though, for that
work, and Frederick won't do it. You'll
see he'll either settle down into a humdrum
paterfamilias constitutionally - slippered
king, or else smash himself in some
disgraceful scrape with a woman. I think

I see how this entanglement with Isabel
Meadowes is going to end.'

'How?'

Why, he'll make a fool of himself and
marry her.'

I DID not believe that Prince Frederick
could commit such a piece of folly as to
marry Isabel Meadowes. He loved the
Princess Blanche, and, though his engagement
with her was broken off, it was quite
evident to me that he would end by marrying
her, if only he remained patient and
behaved himself for a time, so as to avoid
making people talk about him. Smart ashe
might under the reproaches addressed
to him at Windsor, he could not be so
senseless as to throw himself away upon
Isabel merely to spite the Princess Blanche,

who, no doubt, was as fondly attached to
him as ever.

On his return from Yorkshire, however,
the Prince told me at once to my dismay
that he was going to make Isabel his wife.
He came back one evening unexpectedly,
and as soon as we had shaken hands, he
requested me to go and dress for dinner,
as wee were both to dine at Springfield
House. It was during the few minutes
while we were waiting for the carriage that
he announced his matrimonial intentions,
adding that I must start for Kronheim
next day to carry a letter to the King, in
which he would pray for permission to
marry.

He seemed happy enough, but not like

a man deeply in love. He accepted my

congratulations with a smile. I had, of

course, no opinions to offer on the mar-vol.
II 33

rage, for he spoke as though his mind
was made up, and as though he were
resolved to hear no remonstrance. Yet I
felt mighty curious to ascertain how he
was going to accomplish his marriage.
King Franz would certainly refuse his
sanction to a dalliance so long as Prince
Frederick was heir to the throne, though
he might allow a regular marriage on condition
of the Prince renouncing his rights
to the succession. Was the Prince prepared
to make this sacrifice, or was Isabel
ready to contract an irregular marriage
which, though it gave her no official rank
as the Prince's wife, would prevent him
from marrying anybody else } On these
points no elucidation was vouchsafed
me.

May I congratulate Miss Meadowes '^.
I asked, as we entered the house.

By all means,' replied the Prince.
There is to be nothing secret in this
engagement. Lady Springfield will take
care of that.'

The remark was an odd one, and I
wondered whether the Prince might not
after all be playing some trick upon Lady
Springfield. He could not be very fond
of this lady nor she of him.

My first glance at Isabel dispelled these
suspicions, for she looked so lovely as to
make it seem quite natural that the Prince
should be under her thrall. Albeit she was
not the Isabel whom I had admired. She
was attired with bewildering finery, and
her hair had evidently been dressed by
some fashionable coiffettr who understood
what best suited it. She was making the
most of her beauty, and there was an increased
assurance in her manner which

only left her for one single moment as I
offered her my good wishes.

Thank you she said, blushing. ' You
have been my friend, and I know you
mean what you speak ; ' but having said
this, she turned away, with her face all
beaming, to converse with the Prince, and
made some very pretty play with an ostrich
feather fan to carry on some whispered
asides ' with him.

Well, you have heard the good news,'
began Lord Springfield, accosting me.
All's well that ends well'

The Prince could not have made a
better choice,' I answered with forced
amiability, for my opinion of his lordship
was lowered.

'It IS his choice,' he said, dropping his
voice a little. ' He came back upon the
old love of his own accord, and this time

Lady Springfield had nothing to do with
the matter. I, of course, can only desire
to see Isabel happy. You are going to
Kronheim tomorrow with a letter to the
King?'

So it seems.'

I have written to his Majesty too, and
have asked Sir George ]\Ialmsey to act
for me generally. The moment the Prince
is prepared to renounce his succession
rights there ought to be no difficulty
about giving Isabel her full dues as the
Prince's wife.'

There is to be a renunciation then ? '

'Oh yes, that matter has been made
quite plain. We can have no hole and
corner marriage, bars sinister or anything
of that kind.'

He spoke with resolution, like the head
of a family who has taken the domestic

reins in hand, and, since the engagement
now appeared to be a serious thing I was
glad to see him so downright. Lady
Springfield had subsided for the nonce
into the second place, and was affecting
maternal sweetness with extreme affability
towards everybody. We were twelve at
table, a duke and duchess, the editor of a
morning newspaper, a bishop and his wife,
a Court equerry and Stolz being of the
company. It was presumable that Lady
Springfield had collected these guests so
as to ensure that her daughter s engagement
should obtain the greatest amount of
publicity in the shortest space of time : the
engagement was not talked of at dinner,
but everybody knew of it.

Poor Stolz looked an unutterably
wretched and disconsolate object. The
result of the visit to Yorkshire, as it

seemed, had been to make him fall in love
with Isabel. He uttered such heavy sighs
during the pauses of his eating and drinking
that I thought more than once he
would betray his soreness of heart to the
Prince. When the ladies had retired, he
drew his chair near mine, gave my knee a
severe grip, and whispered —

This is a not-to-be-understood piece of
stupidity ! What thickest thou ? '

I think like thee.' (This was the first
time we had used the familiar du in conversation.)


I shall return to active service,' continued
Stolz. * I wish there were a war.
I am sorrowful.'

Give me a frank opinion,' I said, whispering.
' Is the Prince in love '^. '

Vein, vein' said Stolz emphatically,
but the Frdulem is.'

The Fi'dtdein managed to have a few
words in private with me in the drawing-room
later on. It came about naturally
enough through the English duke button-holding
the Prince, while the other guests
assembled round a whist-table. I was left
out in the cut for partners, and found
myself standing alone with Isabel near the
fireplace. I said cheerfully —

This is a different meeting from my
first with you at the Legation in Labels


Yes ; a great deal has happened since
then,' she answered ; ' but I read your
character aright on that evening, and I
trust you have not been disappointed in
mine. We shall continue to have you
with us, I hope ? '

I do not think I can be of much use
to the Prince after he is married with you.

He will have the best adviser in his wife
not that I ever was his adviser.'

You say that as though your advice
had not been followed.'

It has been very seldom asked.'

If it had been, would matters stand as
they do now ? '

'That is not a fair question,' I replied
with a laugh.

Perhaps it is not,' she said, trying to
laugh too, but keeping her eyes turned
from me. ' In any case you have promised
to go with us to Bulgaria ? '

Does the Bulgarian project still hold
good then ? '

Oh, indeed it does ; if the Prince gives
up one crown for my sake I must not stand
in the way of his winning another. You
do not imagine that I would have consented
to marry him if I had not been

persuaded that he was thoroughly miserable
now, and that I could make him happy ? '

Naturally your motives have been
good.

And my purposes are good ? '

So I believe.'

With all your heart ? '

With as much of heart as I have left.'
Oh, I know you are very generous in
giving fragments of your heart away said
Isabel ; and this time she laughed outright
at me over the edge of her fan. ' I have
heard of your goings on with the Princess
Dot.'

Who can have told you ? ' I asked
shamefacedly.

Why, who but the Prince ? His sister
once told him that she would do anything
for you if you were only a duke. I am
afraid that the poor little thing will be very

angry with me, but I shall not be sorry if
the Grand-duke Rothbart takes offence atour
engagement and breaks off his match
with her.'

Why should you desire that ? '
Because it is as foolish in a princess as
in any other girl to marry a man for whom
she does not care. Why does she not
marry you if you love her ? We might all
be happy in Bulgaria together. Just think
of that, sir, while you are playing whist,
for it's time for you to cut in again.'

On the morning after this I left for
Kronheim. My instructions were simply
to deliver a letter to the King and to bring
back an answer. I was not empowered
to negotiate : in fact the Prince doubted
whether King Franz would receive me.

The King did receive me. I drove

Straight to the palace from the railway-station,
and giving my letter to the aide-de-camp
on duty, said I should await his
Majesty's commands at an hotel. A few
hours later I was summoned to the palace
an officer and a Court carriage having
been sent to fetch me — and I was ushered
into the room where I had been presented
to the King.

The old monarch shook his head at me.
He must have been secretly pleased at the
contents of the Prince's letter, which opened
the way to the throne to the Princess
Ursula ; but it suited him to appear
offended, and he was anxious to speak out
his mind to me about the Prince's book.

This letter should have been brought
to me by Count Stolz, who is in attendance
on Prince Frederick, and who is one of my
own officers,' began his Majesty. ' I suppose

you have not been sent to plead the
Prince's suit with us ? '

I have no orders of the kind, sire.'

The Prince knows that there can be
only one answer to his application. It
will have to be laid before the Cabinet. If
he likes to make an unworthy marriage in
defiance of our laws he must take the consequences.
Any permission from me is
out of the question.'

Is this the answer that I am to carry
from your Majesty ? '

No, you will get a written reply ; for
we will acknowledge you as his Royal
Highness's messenger. But now, sir, tell
me, is it you who have been advising Prince
Frederick to publish a mischievous book ? '

No, sire.'

But you have seen the book ? '

I have, sire.'

A prince has no business to write
books,' grumbled King Franz; 'and a
writer of books has no right to command
armies ; every man should keep to the
duties of his station. We don't believe
that you have given the Prince wrong
advice in this matter. If we did believe it
we should blame you most severely. You
can tell the Prince when you go back that
his conduct has been a constant irritation
to us. If marriage will make him more
reasonable, Heaven be thanked for it ! But
the wisest thing he could possibly do
would be to give up all idea of reigning,
for he has never understood his position asa
prince, and he would not realise his
responsibilities as a king.'

Upon this his Majesty shook his head
at me again, and my audience was over.
But just as I was leaving the palace a

servant ran after me and led me back to
the Royal study, where I found Princess
Dot almost in hysterics. She flew towards
me, seizing my hands so suddenly
that she made me drop my hat on to the
floor, and with another step forward she
trod upon it.

Now calm yourself, child,' said the
King sternly.

I can't help it,' screamed the Princess,
throwing herself into a chair and crying.
Why did you not give me notice of this
marriage, Herr Meredith ? The first
news I get of it comes this morning in a
letter from my brother, and I find you
already here, settling everything. I tell
you the marriage must be put off, or
broken off, until mine is solemnised. Before
the day is over we shall have Grand-duke
Rothbart here demanding double

money from me on pain of casting me off.
Oh, I know him.'

I forbid you to speak in that improper
way, Dorothea,' said the King angrily.
Remember where you are.'

I have not a friend in this world, sire,'
sobbed the Princess. ' If this had happened
in any former age, your ancestors
and mine would have taken good care that
no Duke of Weniggeld insulted a Princess
of Kronheim ; but supposing this man
casts me off and makes me the laughingstock
of Germany, what will your Majesty
do ? — Nothing.'

'Your brother acted with his usual
thoughtlessness in not considering your
position,' remarked the King ; ' but the
Grand-duke is a man of honour.'

Will your Majesty lay your solemn
commands on my brother not to marry

this English adventuress ? ' interrupted the
Princess.

If I did that, and he disobeyed me, it
would be bad for him,' answered the old
King grimly. ' I had better forbid nothing
and sanction nothing.'

Very well, sire, your Majesty will
please allow me to act,' cried the Princess,
picking up her muff and fastening a sealskin
mantle, which she had thrown open
in the excitement which was making her
cheeks burn. ' I have my own dignity to
defend. I know that there are intriguers
enough who would delight to see my
brother commit an act of folly which
would turn to the advantage of my cousins
Wolfgang and Ursula.'

'Enough of this,' said the King, pointing
to the door. ' You are beside yourself.'


VOL. II 34

Hark to those carriage wheels and to
the drums of the guard, sire,' cried the
Princess, running to a window. ' Ah !
here they come, my cousins Wolfgang and
Ursula. I will stake my life they will ask
your Majesty to confer a title on that
English girl and let my brother marry heron
condition of resigning his rank as a
prince of the blood.'

If they did that I should refuse,' replied
the King.

Your Majesty promises ? '

I have no promise to make, child.
How dare you use such language to me ?
Go home and collect yourself.'

I am your Majesty's servant, sire,'
faltered Princess Dot, with a low curtsey ;
but permit me to say this : when the
Grand-duke proposed to me he imagined
I was the sister of a future king. If he

finds out he was mistaken he will repudiate
me or insist upon compensation which I
could only give by surrendering every
mark of my fortune. I won't do this, sire,
nor will I be spurned by Grand-duke
Rothbart. Herr Meredith, your arm,
and see me to my carriage. I am on
a visit to Princess Ursula and her husband,
but I will leave their palace
to-day and go to my own. Call on me
this evening, and we will confer about
this.'

The King stopped me by a wave
of the hand, as I stood irresolute and
furtively knocked my broken hat into
shape.

Captain Meredith, you will not call on
the Princess Dorothea, but return to your
hotel and await the letter which I will send
you ; and, having got it, you will go back

to England by the first train. Dorothea,
remain here.'

I made my bow and retired. Princess
Dot, putting her handkerchief to her eyes,
remained alone with the King.

A LADY wishes to see you, sir,' said the
waiter at my hotel, and before I could give
an answer the Princess Dot brushed past
this man and marched into the room.

She looked round to see that the door
was shut, then untied her thick veil and
exclaimed —

The King said you were not to call on

me, but he did not forbid me to call on

you. Bettina von Schnupff has come with

me for propriety's sake, and is downstairs

dozing in a droshki! She threw off her

mantle, and allowed me to draw a chair for
VOL. II 35

her near the open door of the stove, where
a fire of logs was roaring. It was then
nearly dusk, and I had been waiting at
the hotel since leaving the palace without
having yet got the King's letter, or
received a single visit, though I had
sent a note to Sir George Malmsey
explaining my position and begging him
to call.

Things have happened as I suspected

they would,' began the Princess with

feverish animation, and spreading out

her small hands near the flames. ' My

cousin Ursula has been at the King all day.

I told his Majesty how it would be, and

you heard him say that he wouldn't give

in. Kings always say that, and yield as

soon as they find that resistance would

interfere with their domestic comfort.

Nothing is so weak and silly as a king !

Of course my cousin Ursula made her
father feel that he would have no peace
unless she got her own way, and I don't
blame her for that — though I hate her, and
would gladly see her strangled. Her dolt
of a husband, who is preparing to pass his
examinations as a surgeon, pretends not to
care, but he does care, and the two have
Count Hochort behind them, to say nothing
of Sir George Malmsey : so the end
will be that King Franz will consent to the
marriage, and create Miss Meadowes a
countess, provided my brother renounces
his rights to the crown. The King's
idea was for letting a morganatic marriage
take place, and then passing a
bill through the Chambers to remove
my brother from the succession, on the
ground that he had broken the family
marriage law ; but the conspirators think

this would make too much noise in the
country.'

The Princess chattered all this volubly
without looking at me ; but now she
glanced up and said —

In either way, things are going against
me, thanks to my brother's folly. Now,
Ferdinand, do you love me ? '

'So-so,' I answered coolly.

You must have a feeling for me, or
you would not give a reply intended to
hurt me,' was the wise rejoinder. ' I
am sure, though, you would render mea
service if you could : so you must
stop this marriage. You hear me, it
must be stopped, at least until I am
married.'

I am afraid I am quite powerless,' I
said, shaking my head at her vehemence.
The engagement took me by surprise, and

nothing that I could say would be of any
avail now.'

Never mind, we must put our heads
together and we may contrive something,'
said the Princess Dot. ' You understand,
Ferdinand, that I am not going to remain
unmarried if I can help it, for have you
any idea of what the life ot a spinster
princess is ? Other princesses nudge one
another and whisper: " That's the girl who
couldn't find a husband ; there must be
something abominable about her." Then
you can have no household of your own,
no freedom ; you are left out of drawing-room
conversations, you are in everybody's
way. If you talk to a good-looking fellow,
people make a long story about it. In
short, the only resource of a spinster princess
is to dress in black and turn charitable,
visiting hospitals, and all that kind

of thing, or else to enter a convent. Now,
I have no vocation whatever for a nun's
Hfe.'

'No.'

What did you say ? '

I said No.'

But there was an amused tone in your
remark — well, no matter, it's a fact. I
have a cousin who became an abbess because
she is as tall as a drum-major and
has a moustache. It was all very well on
the day of her installation, when they put
a gold crown on her head and covered her
up with purple robes, while the organ
played and the choristers tossed up
incense ; but since that exciting day
she has made her mouth twice as large
as it was by yawning, and she has become
as sour as a lemon. The only
men she ever sees are an old confessor

and an old bishop. That would not suit
me at all.'

The Princess Dot then proceeded to
inform me that she cared not a penning for
the Grand-duke Rothbart, and would lead
that potentate a fine life after marriage if
he did not render himself agreeable. Recent
opportunities for judging him had,
she said, endowed her with the meanest
opinions as to his character, intellect, and
temper ; nevertheless, he would do as a
husband, and since he would have right on
his side if he objected to his bride-elect's
brother contracting a dalliance, the occasion
for making him crow must be withheld.
After the marriage nothing would
signify, and the Grand - duke might then
lift up his voice as much as he thought
might do him good, for, as the Princess
sagaciously concluded, 'If he broke a

blood vessel and I became a widow the
very day after my marriage it would be a
very different thing from my remaining a
spinster.'

Then with her mixture of drollery and
intense seriousness the Princess examined
what could be done. Should she write an
impassioned letter to her brother, or should
she appeal to Miss Meadowes's feelings ?
Then her erudition in French novels suggested
more heroic plans. Could not her
brother be kidnapped, and carried to a
private lunatic asylum for a month or two,
or might not Miss Meadowes be spirited
away ? ' Ah ! I would soon deal with that
minx if we were living in old times,' ejaculated
the Princess. * I would have her
thrown into a prison at Weniggeld, where
they would crop her hair, give her a
whipping every week, and make her work

in the laundry until her hands were like
a housemaid's. We should see then
how much my brother cared for her.
But he doesn't care for her, and it's all
nonsense,' she broke off passionately. ' My
brother must always be doing something to
cause a sensation and make people talk.
He has no other motive for his actions.
Set him in the Garden of Eden without a
human creature to quarrel with, and he
would pelt the lions and tigers with apples
sooner than not make himself enemies.'
While babbling in this strain the Princes



cess began to gad about the room and
make an inspection of things. She had
never been in an hotel at Sabelburg
before, and everything about the place,
from the faded dusty furniture to a copy of
printed rules on the wall, seemed to excite
her curiosity. Like a child she stood in

the doorway of my bedroom peering at my
open portmanteau and at the articles out of
my dressing-case, and every time she heard
a bell ring in the passage she stopped and
asked, ' What's that ? ' adding after explanation
that it must be rather good fun to
be an hotel chamber-maid. She made no
sign of going, but asked leave to explore
my writing-desk on the table, and was in
the act of gravely perusing my passport
when there was a knock at the door. Just
like a child again she at once ran and
turned the key in the lock.

I mustn't be caught here,' she exclaimed.
* I shall go into the next room.'

It's the worst thing you could do,' I
protested. ' Please remain, and let me go
and see what the waiter wants.'

But she would not listen, and catching
up her mantle and gloves, ran into the

bedroom, of which she left the door ajar.
Of course she forgot her muff, which remained
on the table, a conspicuous object.

I opened the door, and the waiter
announced Sir George Malmsey, who was
in the passage with his Secretary, Mr.
Milkinson. They at once walked in, and
his Excellency, who had probably been told
that there was a lady with me, sniffed the
air suspiciously, and noticed the muff ; but,
like a well - bred diplomatist, made no
observation. His face was red from the
December cold, and his eyes were so watery
that it looked as though the day's worries
had made him weep.

Looked, Meredith, this is a doomed
awkward business,' he began, taking a
bundle of papers from Mr. Milkinson ; ' but
as an old friend of Lord Springfield's I've
been obliged to do my best for him and

that rag of a daughter of his. You know
my opinion of Lady Springfield. Egad !
last time I saw her I said, " My dear madam,
of all the infernal schemers I ever met
you're the worst." Of course I put that
civilly, but you know what I mean, and so
forth. Well now, see here, Milkinson and
I have been writing up a pedigree for
Miss Meadowes by the help of Burke and
Debrett. You don't happen to have a
book which appeared not long ago, proving
that thousands of us were descended from
Henry III ? That's a book that would be
of use to us. As it is, Milkinson has been
doing his best to make the Springfield fit
in with some Irish kings.'

There's a missing link,' remarked Mr.
Milkinson, who looked utterly prostrate at
having had to do a hard day's work for
once.

I daresay the Herald's College will
find It,' said Sir George. ' It makes all the
difference as to whether Miss Meadowes
shall be created baroness or countess. The
King is behaving handsomely, but until we
can turn up that missing Irish bogtrotter
we can't expect anything better than a
barony, and egad ! if she can't get more
she'll have to be satisfied with that, and
be hanged to her ! As to the settlements
'

I have it,' interrupted Mr. Wilkinson,
striking his forehead. With mild excitement
this ornament to the diplomatic service
pointed to a name among a score
which he had copied on to a sheet of thick
blue official foolscap with half margin.
This fellow here, Michael O' Potheen, bore
the sobriquet of Viridis — Green ; no doubt,
says Burke, owing to the extent and richness

of his pastures. That's it surely, green
pastures — Spring fields. '

'By Jove! you're a clever fellow,' exclaimed
Sir George, looking with admiration
at his Secretary, as though he saw in
him the grain of an ambassador.

It struck me all of a sudden,' said Mr.
Milkinson modestly; ' but I'm sure I should
have thought of it before if those two
British subjects had not disturbed me at the
Legation this afternoon. They're always
at it — taking the Legation for a Consulate.'

I've often wished every British subject
at Old Nick's,' exclaimed Sir George feelingly.


Saying this, he scribbled a pencilled
postscript to a letter which he took from
among his papers, and added : ' See here,
I've written to Lord Springfield, telling
him he must make out the best pedigree

he can. As to settlements, the King will
see that Prince Frederick makes a proper
provision for his wife out of his own estates.
The consent will only be given on those
terms, and of course under the other conditions
to be stated by his Majesty. On
the whole, though, I wish to goodness
there was nothing English mixed up in
this affair ; I shall write to the Foreign
Office that it would be a doomed good thing
for Kronheim if that crack-headed fellow
were removed from the line of succession.
He and his ridiculous sister are both mad
as March hares.'

Something fell down with a crash in my
bedroom, betraying that Princess Dot had
been listening through the chink in the
unclosed door, and had made an indignant
movement. Sir George gave a start,
glanced at the muff on the table, then at

me, shook his head, and winked. But
never suspecting that Princess Dot was the
lady in the next room, he went on in a
loud cracked voice —

By jingo ! princes and princesses of
that kidney bring monarchy into contempt.
I wouldn't give a brass button for a prince
who talks Radical rubbish. As for that
simpering bit of a thing, the Princess
Dorothea, I hope she'll find her match in
her baboon of a Grand-duke. They say he
has a temper of his own, and if he lays his
riding whip across her shoulders sometimes
he'll do her a precious deal of good.'

I thank you very kindly, Sir George
Malmsey,' interrupted a shrill voice, quivering
with rage, and to my horror Princess
Dot burst into the room. I had done my
best to stop Sir George by signs, I had
kicked over the coal scuttle to drown his

voice ; but it was of no use. There he
stood, purple with confusion, and the Httle
Princess confronting him with her fists
clenched and her face white with fury.

'Ton my soul, ma'am, I'm very sorry,'
he stammered.

Ac/i, and so you are a conspirator, Sir
George,' cried the Princess in broken
English ; ' and you mix yourself up in intrigues
to deprive my brother of his rights.
But you shall fail, sir. I may be a
"ridiculous greater," but the Grand-duke
of Weniggeld, he shall not beat me with
his riding-whip, and your English girl, she
shall not marry my brother with a false
pedigree. You can write that to your
Foreign Office.'

All this is Captain Meredith's fault,

ma'am,' said Sir George apologetically, but

with a very angry look at me.

VOL. II 36

No, it is not his fault, for I came
here by myself,' screamed the Princess.
I came to spoil this conspiracy, and spoil
it I will.'

Here, ma'am, is the King's letter,' interposed
the discomfited diplomatist with a
cough, for, in the midst of the altercation,
a waiter had ushered in an officer in full
uniform, who handed me a letter with a
large seal.

I took the letter, but the Princess Dot
snatched it out of my hands, tore it into
pieces, and stamped these under foot.

There, sir,' she cried to the astonished
officer in German, ' you may tell his
Majesty that you delivered his letter in
the presence of the British Minister, and
that the Princess Dorothea tore it up.
Prince Frederick's marriage is not a
question which concerns the King alone :

It concerns the whole Royal family, and I,
his sister, forbid it.'

The officer — a fine young fellow with a
sky-blue tunic and a row of medals — made
a low bow and withdrew. Sir George
Malmsey lifted up both his hands in
amazement, saying, ' After this, ma'am, I
cannot remain here another moment, not
another moment' Upon which he too
beat a retreat, followed by Mr. Wilkinson,
who, in his attempts to retire with
dignity, stepped on the coal scuttle which
I had overturned, cannoned against the
stove, and stumbled with his face slap
against the wall.

After he had gone the Princess and
I were left alone. She marched up to
a looking-glass, took a good survey of
herself, and, half laughing half crying, let
herself drop into my arms. ' I am not a

ridiculous thing, am I, Ferdinand ? You
don't think so ? Only let me get married
to this "baboon" of a Grand-duke,
and I shall be thine in heart for ever.'

Very good,' I said, gently leading her
to a chair ; ' but meanwhile how are we to
deal with the King ? '

Leave that to me,' she cried, disengaging
herself; 'just give me a sheet of
paper and I will deal with the King.'

I DO not know what she wrote. She made a
great mess with the paper, spoilt two other
sheets, and scored vigorous dashes with
her pen over the page which she completed.


I mean to frighten them,' she said.
The lesson will be a good one for the
Grand-duke Rothbart at the same time.
He'll learn that I am not to be trifled with.
Here she scratched a few more words with
fine ink splashes, and nodded to me with a
great air of deliberation as she blotted the
wet page and folded it. ' Now I'll carry

this to the palace myself. Give me my
mantle, please. When shall I see you
again — at my wedding ? '

I don't know what the Prince's arrangements
are,' I said, not knowing
whether to feel amused or dismayed by
her proceedings.

Oh, he'll come, of course, and you
must come too. Meanwhile Til write him
a letter, and I'll write Miss Meadowes one
too, so that you won't be troubled to deliver
any message. Good-bye.'

She held up her hand for me to kiss,
and then breaking into a titter, gave me a
slight tap on the cheek, saying, ' I wish I
were going to marry you, my Ferdie, but
it can't be, so don't fret about it. Goodbye
again. Don't accompany me, I can
find my way downstairs.'

She frisked out with her letter, appearing

to have no consciousness that she had
placed herself in a very false position by
coming to me. If the Grand-duke Roth-bart
heard of her escapade he might now
very reasonably object to make her his
wife. As for me, my position was only
embarrassing towards Sir George Malmsey
; but feeling I was not to blame for
what happened, I thought it would be
better to attempt no apology or explanation.

It was too late to return to England by
the train which left at six o'clock, so I
ordered dinner, and was at table when Mr.
Milkinson called, having been sent with a
special message from the King, through Sir
George Malmsey, to say that I was free
to leave Sabelburg when I pleased.

Our young diplomatist looked dreadfully
serious. ' You don't mind my saying
— a — that this means you must leave

as soon as possible ? ' he remarked impressively.
' I'm — a — sorry, but the King and
Sir George are — a — rather offended with
you for having allowed his Majesty's letter
to be torn up.'

Didn't Sir George see then that it was
snatched from my hands ? '

I really — a — can't say,' replied Mr.
Milkinson ; ' but you must see that this is in
every way — a — unfortunate. I hope — a —
that I've delivered my message properly.'

You have not told me whether I am to
await another letter from the King before
going ? '

Oh — a — no. I spoke according to
my instructions. I really don't know. I
a — couldn't take upon myself to say. I
a — was not instructed to inform you that
his Majesty would send another letter.
Good evening.'

Mr. Milkinson departed after giving mea
timid hand to shake and favouring me
with a nod, in which he sought to convey-that
his personal feelings towards me would
not be altered by what had happened.
When he had gone I finished dinner, and
gave orders to the waiter that I should be
called in time for the early express to
Ostend next morning. But I had still a
long evening to get through, and having
been cooped indoors most of the day, I
thought I would go out for a walk and
muse upon the afternoon's events. Some
idea of calling upon Dr. Grinzener was
running in my mind as I went out, and I
asked the hall porter to look out this
gentleman's private address for me in the
directory. Rather to my surprise he gave
me the address from memory, adding : ' But
I doubt whether you will find the Herr

Doctor at home this evening. He is more
likely to be at the Cafe Royal or at the
Science Club.'

Though it was a bitterly cold evening
the streets were crowded. It was the last
hour before the closing of the shops, when
honest Germans, who have been working
in offices all day, turn out, smothered upto
their ears in furs, for a little fresh air,
arm-in-arm with their wives, before going
home to supper, and when penniless
soldiers, swarming back to barracks, halt
in squads of four and six to stare with longing
eyes into the brilliantly-lit shop fronts,
especially those displaying eatables. Indulging
myself in the same entertainment,
and looking into several shops where photographs
of the Princess Dot and the Grand-duke
Rothbart were exposed to view in
twin frames, I became gradually aware that

the crowd around me was increasing, and
that the volume of it was flowing in one
direction. Presently it became difficult to
advance, and I found myself being pushed
along slowly by moving blocks of men in
furs towards the end of a street which led
to the Rathhaus Platz, or square where the
Town Hall was situated. Here there was
a cordon of police drawn across the street,
and people were only suffered to pass on
stating their business. I said I was bound
for the Cafe Royal, which faced the Town
Hall, and I was allowed to go through.

The Platz was thronged, but not so
densely as to impede circulation. Policemen
with their collars up and their hands
buried in their sleeves were stamping
about and requesting groups of persons to
move on, but as fast as a group was dispersed
in one place another was re-formed

farther on — all this, however, without any
disorder or noise except the rhythmical 
shuffles of hundreds of pairs of
boots and shoes on the frost-bound stones.
I entered a tobacconist's, and, stating that
I was a stranger, asked what was the
matter ? Half a dozen customers with fur
bonnets pressed low over their ears and
brows at once answered, in that good-natured,
half mocking, half lecturing tone
which the Germans have in imparting information,
that an election had taken place,
and that the result was about to be proclaimed
from the Town Hall.

Grinzener is the Liberal candidate,
and he is struggling against Baron von
Holzkopfer, the Government candidate,'
observed one of my informants, sucking at
a fresh-filled pipe.

Is it Dr. Felix Grinzener?' I asked.

The same. Do you know him ?
Would you see him ?' came from half a
dozen voices simultaneously, as six clouds
of smoke were blown into my face. I was
so unguarded as to admit that I did know
Dr. Grinzener, and should like to see him ;
upon which my new friends choruses tome
to come along. 'This way, Mein Herr.
You will find him at the Cafe Royal. We
will conduct you.'

Possibly because these gentlemen
wanted to have an excuse for approaching
the Liberal candidate, they constituted
themselves into an escort and piloted me
up to the door of the card, where they
had to make considerable play with their
elbows before we could get in. But as
we were jostling and being jostled, a
great part of the crowd began suddenly
to run towards the Town Hall, and some

distant cheering broke out. Then the cry
of Loch, Grinzener (Hurrah for Grinzener),
rent the air in every direction.

I remembered having heard Prince
Frederick say that Dr. Grinzener, displeased
with his new Government post,
was going to resign and try for parliamentary
honours ; but he had seemed
to attach little importance to the matter,
and I, with so many other subjects to
think of, had put the circumstance out of
mind. As it was, I could not well realise
the idea of Dr. Grinzener setting himself
up as a champion of Liberal principles
against the Government of the day ; but
the fact was evidently as stated by my
friends, for, as we got jammed through the
door of the card, a tremendous uproar
rose inside. Scores of beer glasses were
rattled on marble tables, rousing shouts of

Loch, loch ! resounded, and through a
thick fog of tobacco I saw Dr. Grinzener
shaking hands with everybody and being
slapped so heartily between the shoulder-blades
that he kept lurching forward and
clutching at his friends to support himself


It was impossible for me to get near
him ; but as frantic shouts were now being
raised by the crowd outside, he suffered
himself to be pushed and dragged towards
the door. As he shuffled along he saw
me, nodded recognition, and stretched out
a hand.

'My congratulations, Herr Doctor,' I
cried.

It is a great day,' he gasped excitedly,
a great day for my dear Prince and forme.
Two thousand majority ! Ach
Gottt!'

This last exclamation was caused by
the friendly rough handling which the new
member for Sabelburg got from some of
his admirers, who had set themselves to
hoist him on to the top of a rickety little
table outside the card, so that the cheering
multitude might have a good look at him.
This was accomplished at length, and now
the Rathhaus Platz presented a most animated
scene.

It had suddenly become illuminated.
A couple of hundred University students
who had been scattered among the crowd,
conspicuous by reason of wearing overcoats
and common hats, had now thrown
off their upper garments, and donning their
many coloured muffin caps, appeared in
the gala costume of their brotherhood — the
velvet tunics, buckskin breeches, knee-boots,
gauntlets, and rapiers. Many of

them held torches and were lighting them ;
others, and with them a parcel of street
boys, carried paper lanterns dangling from
sticks. Meanwhile in the houses surrounding
the Platz people could be seen placing
rows of lighted candles in the windows
and making a cheap illumination In that
way.

The cheering was incessant, and the
police made no effort to stop the tumult.
The students proceeded to marshal themselves
in the centre of the Platz. It was
quickly done, and they then advanced with
a quick march, in two long lines of about a
hundred In each, to within ten yards of the
card, where they halted at a word of command,
raised their drawn rapiers aloft, and
uttered three reverberating Lochs !

Transported by this homage from the

studious youth of Kronhelm, Dr. Grln-
voL. II y^

zener, whom officious hands were holding
steady on the table by his calves and coattails,
exclaimed hoarsely —

My young friends, I thank you. This
has been a glorious day. The 

regarded-principles-of-freedom '

He said no more, for a dozen policemen,
who appeared to start up from underground,
encircled his table, and an officer
with his hand to his helmet cried peremptorily
—

In the name of the law, stop ! '

Dr. Grinzener was off the table in a
moment, subsiding somehow on all fours,
and a violent push from the crowd prevented
my seeing what had become of
him. I was myself floated into a torrent
of laughing, cheering, staggering students,
who where flourishing their torches, obstreperously

knocking them against their
rapiers and causing showers of sparks to
descend on the heads of the people around
them. Everybody was guffawing at this
fun, and numbers of delighted servant-maids
and factory-girls added to the excitement
by squealing. Another moment,
however, and a strong body of police were
upon us, charging brutally into the crowd,
snatching rapiers and torches out of the
students' hands, striking boys on the face
and women on the breast. They behaved
like regular ruffians, and appeared to be
deliberately provoking the number of hand-to-hand
encounters which ensued. A rally
of the students drove the police back for a
moment, but reinforcements were pouring
into the square from all sides, and as the
students made no use of their rapiers they
were no match for their aggressors, who

began to strike right and left with the flats
of their unsheathed sabres. A big bully
set upon me and aimed a blow at my hat
with his sword. I had just time to parry
it with my stick, giving the fellow a hard
crack on the knuckles, when I was fairly
lifted off my legs by the scruff of the neck
and elbows, and dashed forward between
a double row of policemen, who helped me
onwards by blows and kicks through an
open gateway of the Town Hall. One
assaulted youngster after another came
stumbling after me, and several of these
were bleeding copiously from blows on
the face. Bleeding and shrieking women
were then added to our company, and we
were all driven on with showers of blows
from sticks wielded by herculean gendarmes
till more than a hundred of us
were massed at the farther end of the

enclosed courtyard. All this was effected
in a minute or two. When I recovered
my breath and balance I found myself
minus hat and stick, half blind from a blow
in the eye, bruised and aching all over
from kicks, and a prisoner.

What a joke ! ' laughed one of the
students near me, drawing a handkerchief
from his bloody nose. ' Ture solum teti-
were inento, I made at least three of those
Wachtleute (policemen) kiss his mother
earth ! '

And I singed one's beard off with my
torch,' responded another, examining a bad
gash on his shin. ' Unfortunately I left
my rapier and cap in the fray.

Tecum Philippe et celebes fugam
Sense relict non bene pamela.'

To-morrow there will be a lecture from

the Rector Magnifies,' observed a third.
He will tell us that Bacchus was the fons
et orig 7nali'

They laughed in chorus, and treated
the whole affair as a joke. Not so the
middle-aged men and the women who had
been taken captive. The latter continued
to yell and sob wildly : the former, among
whom were several prosperous burghers,
were vociferously indignant at having been
pummelled, and at having in several instances
had their fur overcoats torn off
their backs. There were two dim lamps
in the yard, which just enabled us to see
one another's faces. Presently the students
began to chaff the women, and upon
this a war of words arose between them,
the burghers taking the women's part.
These upbraided the students for being
the cause of the scrimmage.

Nobody talked of the affair in the tone
which Englishmen would have used in
similar circumstances. There was no complaint
that the police had exceeded their
duty, and no talk of obtaining redress at
law. It seemed to be taken for granted
that the police should put down a riot with
the utmost brutality, and the burghers were
only angry with the students for having
provoked an affray, while the students were
contemptuous towards the burghers for
evincing a pusillanimous spirit.

It's all very well for you beardless
boys to jabber,' spluttered a fat and bald
person with a swollen cheek. ' You will
be released before morning, but for us,
who have families and business, it's no
laughing matter.'

Evoke ! Kokoriko ! Kikeriki ! ' cried
the student with the bleeding nose, as he

imitated the crowing of a cock. He
seemed to be the funny dog of the company,
and his sallies always produced a
roar.

A pack of chattering apes ! that's what
you are,' replied the fat man, beside
himself.

Hark to the Herr Family Man ! ' exclaimed
the hobbling student with the cut
shin.

Turn prelate graven si forte virum queen
Conspire silent adredisque curious instant.

Let US be silent, my brothers, while the
Herr Family and Business Man delivers
an oration.'

The poor Family Man came in for so
much banter that he and his fellow-burghers
were silenced, and turned their
backs upon the students, but continued to
pour out their grievances among themselves

in undertones, making vehement
gestures from time to time in the direction
of their persecutors. All this while I was
standing apart from the other groups,
wondering how I should get out of my
scrape, and boiling with indignation at the
treatment I had received. I felt my eye
was swelling, and as there was a drinking
fountain on one side of the yard — a stone
lion's head with a leaden tube in its mouth
I limped towards it to steep my handkerchief
in water.

Rilckwdrts ! ' cried a soldier, starting
out of the gloom with a fixed bayonet.

I only want a little water,' I said.

Riickwd7^ts ! ' (Back!) repeated the
fellow, falling into position as though he
would skewer me.

I had to limp back, but this episode
having attracted the attention of the

Students, they surrounded me with curiosity
and asked who I was. On learning
that I was an English officer, who had
been mixed up in the riot by misadventure,
they appeared vastly amused, although
they uttered sympathetic exclamations. I
told them my name, for it was advisable
to disabuse them of the notion that I
might be an amateur revolutionist or a spy.

I beg your pardon, are you the Captain
Meredith who is Secretary to Prince
Frederick ? ' inquired the student who
crowed like a cock.

The same,' I replied.

Oh then, I have often heard about you
from my cousin Count Sonnenthal — my
own name is Max von Sonnenthal.' He
shook hands with me, and added for the
information of his friends : ' This is the
Herr Rittmeister who fought single-handed

with the lion which Prince frederick
let loose among his guests for a
spree.'

Well, not quite that,' I demurred.

Oh yes,' continued young Max, not
heeding me. ' Prince Frederick gave a
masked rout at Grlinsee, and then uncared
a lion to see how his guests could run —
one of his favourite little jokes, you know.
The lion had collared the Grand-duke of
Weniggeld, Rothbart, the French - eater,
and was smelling him to see whether he
was worth masticating, when the Herr
Rittmeister here rushed up, caught up the
beast by the tail, and swung him into Lake
Grlinsee.'

Wuitderbar ! Grossartig !' (Wonderful
! magnificent !) exclaimed the students,
as though they were accustomed to receive
whatever Herr Max said as bullion

truth. It seems he was a Fuchs-Major
(Senior Fox) or leader in all those beer
carousals called knees.

Alluding to this circumstance he remarked
—

A fox owes duty to a lion-slayer. We
shall be called up for examination presently,
and I will give you a character
with the police by declaring that you are
not one of us ; then as soon as we sons of
Minerva are discharged, I will run round
to my cousin's lodgings and tell him to
come and get you freed. But you must
give me one of your cards, please, for ever
since I startled my cousin out of his bed
one night by assuring him that the Royal
Palace was on fire and King Franz roasting
like a chestnut, he has refused to take
my statements with the simplicity of a
child swallowing a doctor's pill.'

I produced a card, writing a few words
on it, and I asked the ' Fox ' whether he
would be so kind as to denver a second
card for me to Mr. Milkinson at the
British Legation. He obligingly promised
to do this, and swore that he would
not sleep a wink until I was released from
bondage.

While we were talking the number of
our fellow-prisoners had considerably Increased.
Every moment some newcomer
was flung into the yard, head foremost,
with all the vigour which two or three
sturdy gendarmes could exert upon one
defenceless creature. Every woman as
she passed received a terrific slap on the
face, every man a kick, and the laggards
two or three kicks. It Is the policy of
Kronheim to treat all mutineers against
authority with such roughness that they

remember the lesson to their Ives' ends.
They may rave and curse at the time, but
the sticks and boots of the police leave
indelible marks, if not on their skins, at
least on their memories, and their bumps of
veneration as regards Government in the
abstract become unquestionably developed.

Schweine ! Schweinhunde ! ' were the
expostulations gasped forth by every man
and woman who was bundled in ; but
having relieved their minds by these expletives,
the victims slunk into the shadows
of the courtyard and accepted their fate
with a whimpering philosophy.

At last the gate closed, and was only
reopened at rare intervals to admit some
tardy prisoner, who was regaled with
double honours of cuffs and kicks. The
cold was dreadful, and those who had open
wounds began to suffer cruelly. The city

clock In the belfry above our heads chimed
out the quarters of the hour, and every
sixty minutes it pealed out in plaintively
slow time the air of the ' Shadow Dance '
from Dijiorah, The students, who had
struck up a song or two to while away the
time, began to find their spirits flag, and
even the ' Senior Fox,' whose nose was
swollen like a tomato, lapsed meditative.
We had been in durance three hours, when
at length a company of soldiers filed into
the yard at the side near the gate, and
grounded the stocks of their rifles with a
rattling noise on the pavement. At this
moment all the prisoners, huddling together,
became silent as a flock of sheep.
Then lanterns appeared, and an officer,
striding into the middle of the courtyard
with an escort, ordered the students to fall
out.

They trooped forth quietly enough, and
were marshalled in single file.

I won't forget you,' said the ' Fox' tome,
as his comrades made way for him to
take the first place, and he walked at the
head of the others through a door where a
couple of sergeants stood with lanterns to
show the way.

It took some time to dispose of the
students, but the sounds of hallooing which
reached us from the Platz soon showed
that these youngsters were being discharged
after giving their names. Then
came the turn of the women, who all
began to cry afresh when they were ordered
out. Some of them could scarcely
move from stiffness, pain, and terror.

Silence ! ' roared the officer in command,
as he beat his scabbard noisily on
the stones.

VOL. II ^S

A very dismal company were these
women, who included all categories of the
sex, from servant-girls with shawls over
their heads to respectable but boundless
mothers of families, who had been caught
up screaming and helpless in the rush. It
seems that all the servants, sempstress,
and shop girls were released at once ; but
the downright disreputable and the respectable
were despatched to gaol. And the
same principle was pursued with the men.
Those who were undoubtedly honest, king-fearing,
and tax-paying persons were detained
to be made an example of.

Now then, all the rest of you vor-
w'drtsP were the words in which the officer
commanded the ol iroXXol to fall out and
in.

My turn came. I passed into a large
room with a stuffy, stove-heated atmosphere,

which, close as it was, seemed
delicious after the cold of the yard. The
place was lit with oil lamps, and was
crowded with policemen. At a large
writing-table sat a gray-headed, fierce-looking,
spectacled official with silver
epaulettes and a helmet.

Your name ? ' he asked sharply.

Captain Meredith, an Englishman,
private secretary to Prince Frederick.'

Nonsense ! An officer does not get
mixed up with canaille. Search him.'

Four men seized hold of me, rifled my
pockets, turned them inside out, and deposited
on the table my pocket-book,
watch, letters, keys, and money.

Off with him,' said the official.

I protest against this,' I cried. 'You
will find my passport in that pocket-book.
I am a British subject.'

He is the man who hit me on the head
with a big stick,' deposed the policeman
whom I had rapped on the knuckles, stepping
forward.

Out with him ! ' repeated the official.

I was hustled out into a flagged passage,
where the door of a cell was thrown open.
My conductors would, no doubt, have liked
to fling me in, but they were not of my
size, and I stepped back with my arms
folded to show them that I meant to enter
in my own way ; so they thought better of
it. But I had not been in the cell a minute
it was a half-dark, evil-smelling place
with a stone bench running round three
sides of it — when the door was opened
again, and a wretched pudgy little man
was tossed all in a heap at my feet.

Schweine ! ' he panted, scrambling to
his knees : but after this he arose and introduced

himself, snivelling, ' My name is
Muller, grocer and provision merchant in
the Schiller Strasse. Yours, Mein Herr ? '

I am a stranger to this city — an
Englishman.'

Ach Gottt ! I wish I were in England,
or anywhere else, with my wife and children
and all my customers. I shall get a
month's imprisonment for this and a fine
of 500 marks.'

But what have you done ? '

'Mein Herr, I will tell you. It was
exactly half-past seven when I said to my
wife, Matilda, I will carry round this box
of prunes which Fritz — he is our shopboy
has forgotten to take to the Dorothea
Strasse. Well, that was at half-past seven.
I reached the Rathhaus Platz, and here I
am. But to think this should happen tome,
who have always voted for the Government

candidate. Not but that I make
allowances for the Government, which is,
of course, irritated at the schlappe (slap) it
received to-day ; but, Mein Herr, I did not
give this schlappe!

Is it such a very hard slap then ? '

'Why yes, Mein Herr ; you know Dr.
Grinzener was elected.'

But that will not put the Opposition ina
majority will it ? '

Mein Herr, the Opposition never hasa
majority,' answered Herr Muller, looking
at me bewildered. ' The majority
always goes with the Government. But
if the King sees that Dr. Grinzener is
very popular he may dismiss Count
Hochort and appoint Dr. Grinzener in
his place, and then it will be Dr. 
who will have the majority.'

This explanation as to the parliamentary

institutions of Kronheim carried us to the
moment when the door again turned on
its hinges and gave passage to Schumann,
hosier and outfitter, who was followed in
quick succession by Biermann, tavern-keeper,
who was the fat bald Family Man ;
Baumann, tailor ; Seligmann, musical instrument
maker; and Vogelmann, poulterer.
All these gentlemen cleared the space
from the door to the middle of the cell atone
bound, and either came down flop on
their knees or ran bump against the stone
bench. Each man, moreover, gave us the
full volume of his voice as he joined our
circle by shouting at the slammed door
the invariable ' Schweine ! '

But after their first ebullitions had subsided
a more peaceable and penitent gang
of prisoners was never collected in one cell.
They all knew something of one another,

and fraternised dolefully. Me, as a stranger,
they eyed somewhat askance, and
perhaps it was owing to a fear lest I should
be an agent provocatetir that they threw a
cloak over their emotions and began to
utter feeling praises of the authorities who
had bullied them and led them captive.

The disgrace of it will be that we shall
be marched to prison through the streets
in handcuffs,' moaned Miller, the grocer.
Happily this will be done before daybreak,
so that nobody will see us. But if
we pass in front of Count Hochort s mansion
I shall sing out " Long live the
Government ! " '

So shall I,' whined Vogelmann, the
poulterer. ' Count Hochort is a truly
great minister. I have always said it.
And the Herr Police President (this was
the fierce official with the epaulettes), he is

a most worthy gentleman too. It is a pity
that his policemen are so rough, but he
himself is a not-to-be-equalled -in-kindness-
and - intellect and a - most - dignified - 
gentleman.'

And our judges, they are not to be
excelled in Germany,' put in Biermann,
the taverner, unwilling to be outdone. ' I
shall say to them : '' Highly-respected sirs,
deign to take our humble position as
family fathers and deeply-reverent never
always-punctually tax paying
citizens into consideration ; " and they will
listen. I am sure they will listen.'

They always do listen,' maundered
Baumann, the tailor, abjectly.

Having exhausted every term of panegyric
in honour of the tribunal that was
going to condemn them unjustly, the sore-hearted
burghers fell to abusing Dr.

Grinzener and Prince Frederick, the Parliament
and the Press, the spread of revolutionary
ideas, and the people. In the
the course of these exercises, however, a
dispute arose. Seligmann, the musical
instrument maker, venturing to put in one
word for popular rights, M tiller, the grocer,
remembered that he — Seligmann — had
proclaimed his intention of voting for
Grinzener. This led to a painful scene.
The insulting epithets of ' Conservative '
and ' Liberal ' were exchanged. Baumann,
the tailor, who was a little mannikin, took
part with Seligmann, and vowed that one
man was as good as another. Biermann,
the taverner, retorted with scorn that a
man who called for a glass of beer and
slunk out without paying for it was not the
equal of the man who drank his ten glasses
in an evening and paid for them plump,

and that so far as his experience went, the
Liberal party was composed of students
who broke beer-glasses and workmen who
emptied them — both without paying. Then
Schumann, the hosier, scored a point
against Baumann, the tailor, by saying
that if the latter depended upon sans-culottes
for his custom he would soon have
to put up his shutters.

A controversy so personal could only
be allayed by the disputants finding a
common subject of reunion and a common
object of attack, and this they by and by
discovered in me. Having been unready
in responding to an appeal for arbitration
suddenly addressed to me by both sides,
I was denounced by Biermann as an
Englishman who knew nothing. Little
Baumann clinched this by screaming that
Englishmen were always coming abroad

to poke their noses into other peoples
businesses without expending 2i pfe7t7ng on
native industry. He had never known an
Englishman buy so much as a suit of
clothes of a German tailor ; and in the
same breath he thanked his Maker that no
Englishman had ever crossed the threshold
of his shop.

England is the ruin of the Continent,'
cried Schumann, the hosier ; and this furnished
a text on which all the German
burghers could preach sapiently. England
made hosiery which the unpatriotic Germans
preferred to native goods. It made
cloth which the German aristocracy demanded
for their best garments. It brewed
pale ale which certain Anglomaniacs had
the bad taste to prefer to lager.

'Why, I've actually had to bottle some
Pinner and stick English labels on the

bottles to make my richer customers think
they were drinking London stuff,' exclaimed
Biermann, the taverner.

And I have been obliged to stamp
English trade marks into some of my
gloves,' declared Schumann.

'As for musical instruments,' remarked
Seligmann scornfully, ' I have heard that
there are whole villages in England where
you wouldn't find so much as a single
flute or a violin.'

This struck the whole company as so
ludicrous that they burst into loud jeering,
and had to be called to order by a policeman,
who opened a trap in the door and
swore to put every man of us into a black
hole if he heard another syllable. Then
silence reigned among us for a time, and
we sat in a semicircle on the stone bench
waiting for deliverance.

The next whisperings were caused by
the clinking of chains and the stamping
of boots in the flagged passage.
Handcuffs,' muttered M tiller, the grocer,
with a shudder. ' They are coming for
us.'

They came in effect. The key turned
in the heavy lock, bolts were drawn, the
bull's-eye of a lantern dashed its flare into
the cell, and all were commanded to walk
out, 'except the Englishman.' This was
a good sign for me, as showing that my
case was receiving special consideration.
All my companions trudged out, and I was
locked up alone. From the plaintive
remonstrances and lamentations which I
heard in the passage I gathered that
the wretched tradesmen were being manacled
in pairs. I hope poor Miller found
an opportunity of shouting * Hurrah for

the Government ! ' as he passed Count
Hochort's mansion, but I never heard.

My own turn did not come till dawn
had brought a dim grey light into the cell.
Too excited to doze, too stiff to walk
about, I had tried every posture on the
stone bench, and had almost worked myself
into a fever from imagining that
King Franz, Count Hochort, and Sir
George Malmsey might conspire to punish
me by leaving me in gaol for a week
or two, when at length I was called
out. I went into the room where I had
been interrogated by the Police President,
and there I found Mr. Mildmay Wilkinson.


If the elder brother of the prodigal son
had called upon the latter while he was
lodging with the swine, he would have
cast at the reprobate some such glance as

that which the Secretary of the British
Legation bestowed upon me.

I am so sorry for this, Captain Meredith,'
he said, 'and Sir George is most
grieved. We were called out of our beds
to attend to your case. What can have
induced you to assault the police ? '

Why, dash it, a fellow tried to cut my
head open.'

You have no idea of how serious an
assault on the police is in this country,'
continued Mr. Milkinson, shaking his head
as though my having acted in self-defence
contributed no justification at all. ' However,
the authorities are showing every
disposition to act justly.'

I am glad to hear that. Are they
going to punish my aggressor and make
me an apology ? '

No — o,' replied Mr. Milkinson, displeased

at this levity. 'We hope they will
consent to accept his Excellency's personal
security for any fine to which you
may be sentenced, and allow you to leave
the city at once ; but this will be a great
favour, for, you know, you will be tried in
your absence, and you may get sentenced
to imprisonment.'

That is really extremely kind of these
gentlemen,' I exclaimed, nodding derisively
at a mute row of policemen ; but Mr.
Milkinson implored me not to ' add another
word.' He hoped, he said, to return at
about eleven o'clock with an order for
my liberation signed by the Minister
of Justice, but nothing could be done
for me until he had seen this official.
Meanwhile he prayed me to be patient,
'for Kronheim is not like England you

see.'

VOL. II 39

'No. I have noticed that,' was my
rejoinder.

With a few more good words, and expressing
the hope that I was being ' treated
with every consideration,' Mr. Milkinson
then left me, and I was led back to my
cell.

There was nothing by which I could
measure time in my cell. I had no watch,
and the grated window at the top of the
wall facing the door was no more than a
slit in the stone. The light would have
been insufficient to read by had I been
humoured with a book ; but I was not, nor
was any breakfast brought me. The cells
in the Town Hall were only used as places
for short detention, and no provision
existed for meals. I soon became tormented
by a sinking sensation which was
that of hunger and thirst, though I was

not aware of it. Having ground my teeth
with rage at the injustice I was enduring,
I sat on the stone bench and waited, feeling
wretchedly unwell, but not realising
that I craved for anything except liberty.

I must have fallen into a doze, for the
opening of the cell door and the calling of
my name startled me as a surprise. Milkinson
had come at last, then, to release
me I but no, it was not ]wilkinson. Issuing
from a dim passage into a yard where
snow was falling heavily I passed into a
double row of whitened and wet policemen
up to the open door of a queer-looking
little yellow van. I took it at first for a
cupboard and stepped back.

What's that ? ' I faltered.

Get in. You'll learn presently.'

I was pushed in, and had to sit down on
a padded leather seat with my back to the

coachman. The door slammed. I was
in the dark, and the carriage moved off
with me.

I was in one of those cellular vans with
a single compartment which are used in
Germany for the transport of solitary
prisoners or lunatics. The slanting roof is
so low that the inmate cannot stand : he
can only sit. There is a perforation at the
top for air, but the prisoner cannot see.
Seat, walls, and door are all padded, so
that he can kick out without injuring himself
or making a noise. Outwardly the
vehicle looks like a reduced hansom with
the driver and horse facing one way and
the hood another.

What feelings or fears possessed me as
I was thus ignominiously carted away to
an unknown destination can only be remembered
as a nightmare. The wheels

rolled softly at a moderate pace over the
thick snow in the streets, and outer sounds
which reached me muffled told nothing of
the quarters through which I was passing.
But when the carriage came to a standstill
and I crawled out of my recess into a drift
of snowfiakes, I knew that I was in a
prison yard.

I was conducted at once into a room of
fair size with a scrubbed deal floor and a
barred window which looked on to a small
court. It was not a cell, for there was an
ordinary bedstead in it and some plain
furniture, including a leather arm-chair
like that in second-rate country-town
hotels. I afterwards learned that this was
one of the rooms in which prisoners who
could afford to pay for their own keep
were detained while awaiting trial.

A black-moustached warder — a little

sallow man in a black tunic, who moved
about as though skating in list slippers —
pointed to a thermometer on the wall,
which marked fifteen degrees Reaumur,
and said —

If you feel cold, touch yonder bell and
you shall have more hot air.'

Why am I here ? ' I asked.

Ici durs night antworten' (I must not
answer), was his reply.

What time is it ? '

'About eleven. Have you breakfasted ? '

'No.'

'Then I will bring you breakfast.'

He glided out, turning a key twice in a
well-oiled lock, and not long after reappeared
with a tray, on which was a
wooden bowl of caf ait lait, a couple of
rolls, and two sardines on a tin plate.
The knife, fork, and spoon were of

wood (a precaution against assaults or
suicide).

The food revived me, and though I
began to understand the serious nature of
my predicament I pulled myself together,
and was able to show a pretty calm front
to my next visitor, who was the governor.
It had struck me before he entered that
it would be of no use to ply him or any
of his officials with questions, as they
were certainly not imprisoning me by
their own authority.

The governor was a big soldierly man
with a heavy gait, a grey beard, and spectacles.
Asthmatic, all his words came up
with a prefatory wheeze, but he said little
beyond Yes or No. In his interviews with
me he always stood with his legs far apart,
he held his uniform cap up to his right ear
as if to protect that organ from draughts.

and stroked the back of his stubbly grey
head with his left hand.

Can I do anything for you ? ' he
inquired, examining me fixedly.

May I write to my friends ? ' I asked.

Will they be allowed to see me ? '

Vein. '

Can you tell when I shall have to
appear before a magistrate ? '

I don't know'

I should like to have something to
read.'

Certainly.'

He bade me good morning upon this,
and I saw no more of him for twenty-four
hours. In the interval I was offered a
warm bath, and while I was in the water
my clothes were all taken out of the bathroom
to be overhauled. After this I was

examined by an old doctor, who, at my
request, took written note of the bumps,
bruises, and abrasions on me. A supply of
stationery lay on the table when I returned
to my room, and later I was served with a
dinner of soup, two dishes of meat and
vegetables, cheese, and a bottle of beer.
At four o'clock coffee and bread and butter
were brought, and at eight in the evenings
a supper of cold meat, salad, pastry, and
beer again. The ordinary certainly left
nothing to complain of.

Nor did the attendance of my sallow
warder, who, if taciturn, was respectful and
nimble in his service. He told me that I
could order my own dinner, and might
have wine if I preferred it to beer. Might
I smoke ? Oh yes, pipes, cigarettes, cigars
were to be had at the canteen, and he
forthwith fetched me a packet of cigars.

I gave him one as a peace-offering, and
he accepted it with a bow. Then as to
books, the catalogue of the prison Hb-
rare afforded more than three thousand
volumes for selection, and included works
of history, travel, biographies, encyclopaedias,
and novels of the best order.
There were about a hundred volumes
of the Tauchnitz series, and some three
hundred French books ; most of these,
it seems, had been left to the library
by French soldiers confined as prisoners
of war during the campaign of
1870-71.

Imprisonment is a fearful hardship to
men who have families to be anxious for
them, or pressing business which will
suffer by their absence ; but a bachelor
without kith or kin must have a poor
nerve if he cannot brace himself to make

the best of incarceration when he possesses
a quiet conscience.

Early in the afternoon all the luggage
which I had left at the hotel, excepting my
writing desk and papers, was brought me,
and I guessed by that token that Sir
George Malmsey had failed to obtain my
release. The discovery brought a momentary
twinge, but I made up my mind to
take things coolly. I knew that I should
not be lowered in Prince Frederick's
opinion by my arrest on an absurd charge,
and supposing matters came to the worst
and I was sentenced to a few days' imprisonment
for assaulting the police, I was
convinced that not a single one of my
friends would believe that I had been
treated justly. There was satisfaction
enough in that.

So I wrote a long letter to Prince

Frederick, relating all that had happened,
without omitting Princess Dots innocent
visit to me, and two other letters to Sir
George Malmsey and Dr. Grinzener. To
the latter I appealed as a possible witness
of what had befallen me ; but to save
trouble I may as well say at once that not
one of these letters, nor of the others which
I subsequently wrote, was forwarded to its
destination.

A gas jet gave plenty of light to my
room when dusk came on ; and having
despatched my letters I read until drowsiness
stole over me. The sleeplessness of
the past night and the absolute stillness of
the prison were good preparations for a
sound rest. Nothing could be heard
save the occasional ring of some fellow-prisoner's
bell, and the steps of the
warders as they walked along the asphalted

passages in their list slippers were hardly
audible.

I slept till daylight, and after breakfast
the warder asked whether I would take
exercise while he set my room in order.
I was turned into the court under my
window, which was about twenty-four feet
square, and there I was left to pace about
for an hour. There was not much exercise
in this, and I thought that if my imprisonment
lasted I would ask my warder to buy
me an india rubber ball, that I might have a
double - handed game of fives. Another
hour's airing was granted me in the afternoon,
and these outings, with the round of
meals, constituted the almost unchanging
routine of the prison. No noise, no news ;
there was a perfect tranquillity within those
blackened brick walls, without a possibility
of learning what passed outside.

It was not till my third day in gaol that
I was called up before the Untersitchungs
Richter or examining magistrate, who had
a justice room within the prison. On my
way to it I saw only warders, and I must
say the arrangements in this prison for
keeping untried prisoners separate, and
from all contact with convicted prisoners,
were admirable.

My magistrate sat at a writing-table,
and in front of him was another table, at
which his clerk sat taking down all interrogatories
and answers in shorthand. A
corner in the room was partitioned off by
a semicircular glass cage, behind which
stood a warder, ready to enter the room if
a prisoner should be refractory, but unable
to hear what was spoken. There was an
arm-chair in the middle of the room, and in
this I was requested to seat myself.

I noticed that a number of the papers
seized at my hotel lay on the magistrate's
table docketed. My diary was there also.
I have always kept a diary, and the entries
since I had become Prince Frederick's
secretary were pretty full. The magistrate
was a thin elderly man, of melancholy
mien, but with nothing salient about him.
He spoke English well, and addressed me
sometimes in that language, sometimes in
German. By professional habit he seemed
to think that every answer given him was
untrue, and he signified this by short
sceptical coughs. When questioning, he
always fastened his eyes on mine, but
while I was replying he appeared not to
listen, and read some paper or other which
he held at a foot from him and scrutinised
through a pair of eyeglasses. The opening
and shutting of these glasses, the

adjusting them on the bridge of his nose,
the raising them to his eyes, and the
wiping of them with the skirt of his coat,
gave unceasing employment to his two
hands.

You are accused of assaulting the
police,' he said. ' Give me your own
version.'

I gave it. The pen of the clerk scrawled
fast ; the magistrate coolly turned over the
leaves of my diary, and whenever I paused
he gave a little cough.

Now, please explain some of the entries
in this diary,' he said.

'Is that necessary?' I asked; 'those
entries have nothing to do with the assault
that was committed on me.'

A cough. ' Yes, it is necessary. Please
do as I request.'

This proved a long business ; for I saw

VOL. II 40

as I went on that the magistrate was much
less concerned with the assault case than
curious to learn the whole extent of my
relations with Prince Frederick. He was
evidently acting under instructions, for he
put me searching interrogatories, repeated
his questions as if he had forgotten my
previous replies, and attributed words tome
which I had not uttered — all this to
see whether my statements varied.

When the harrying had lasted about a
couple of hours the magistrate dismissed
me, remarking that I must be hungry, and
that he would see me presently. My next
summons, however, did not come till two
days later ; and after that I was examined
at irregular intervals of two or three days
during three weeks. Altogether, I went
up eight times to be cross-questioned, and
some of the interviews lasted three hours.

It was the magistrate's plan always to leave
me under the impression that I should not
be summoned again, and on my next reappearance
he would mutter an apology
for having a few more questions to ask.
He was anything but uncivil ; in fact, as
we became better acquainted he grew
sympathetic, and seemed to be getting a
little ashamed of the work which he had
been set to do. But his object was to
sift thoroughly all that I knew about the
murder of Tristan Hardmuth, the writing
of Prince Frederick's book, the Prince's love
affairs, and my own a77iourette with the
Princess Dot, as to which there existed
many — too many — tell-tale memoranda in
my diary.

I gave no trouble, for, descrying the
scope of the investigation, I saw that I
should only prolong my captivity by being

reticent. Besides, it is of no use to be
reticent with a man who holds all your
secrets. The magistrate had a clever way
of inveigling me into explanations by pretending
to put erroneous constructions on
things which I had written, so that I was
obliged to speak in self-defence. It was
at my fifth interview with him I discovered
that all the letters I had been writing since
I was in prison had never been posted ;
for, in sorting some papers on the table, he
allowed two of my letters to Prince frederick
to fall to the floor.

I pointed to them, remarking with an
ironical smile, ' I might have spared myself
the work of writing those.'

No, for they have been useful in vindicating
you,' he answered readily.

Against a charge of assault ? ' I asked.

There are other things beside the

assault,' he said ; then abruptly, ' Are
you aware that public rumour accused
you of having murdered Tristan Hard-much
? '

Yes, I know that some foolish things
were said among the peasantry about me,
and about Prince Frederick too.'

You were the last person with whom
Hardmuth was seen alive.'

I was ; but what motive could I have
had in murdering him ? '

'You play out that card very quickly.
The absence of apparent motive is a
puzzling feature in many crimes. However,
public rumour accused you of being
paid to commit the crime.'

The charge is too absurd to be discussed,'
I replied quietly.

Yet you may be a particeps criminis if
you conceal what you know of a crime.

In one of your entries you accumulate all
the facts that tell against Prince Frederick,
and you write: 'rit certainly does look
suspicious!' '

It did look suspicious ; but that only
proves how deceptive appearances may be.
At the time I wrote that I was quite convinced
of the Prince's innocence.'

Convinced ? Then you did know something
for certain about the crime ? '

Morally convinced is what I ought to
have said.'

The magistrate coughed. ' Let us turn
to another subject. You seem to have intrigued
very assiduously to make her Royal
Highness, the Princess Dorothea, marry
you.'

As you have read my diary you must
know what I think of my own folly in this
affair.'

But you accuse the Princess of having
trifled with you.'

That is another sign of my folly.'

Then you retract all that ? '

The entries in a diary are not sworn
evidence.'

But a man of honour does not write
untruths in his diary.'

A man of honour may be a fool.'

So the dialogue went on. I had now
got to know the magistrate well enough to
feel that he was a man whom I should like
to have as an acquaintance in private life.
He was a bit of a humorist, as could be
seen by the arching of his eyebrows and
by his occasional attempts to suppress a
smile when his cross - questioning had
brought one, or both of us, into a ludicrous
position. He was also a gentleman, for
he never pressed an unfair advantage hard.

Having exhibited his skill in legal fencing
so to say — he was content to show that
a hit could have been scored, though he
declined to score it.

At our last meeting — I had then been
nearly a month in prison — he greeted me
with a smile, and said —

You must be getting very tired of all
this.'

'Very tired.'

'Well, to-day we will read your depositions,
and when you have signed them
there will be an end of the matter.'

Shall I be discharged then ? '

A cough. ' That does not rest with me.
I have only to send in a report.'

I hope the report will be favourable
? '

Hem, do you still acknowledge that you
have often acted like a fool ? '

I should like to know first to what the
confession would pledge me.'

'Well, listen to the depositions,' he said
with a short laugh ; ' perhaps you will own
some day that having been in prison during
this month has prevented you from
committing other follies.'

What did he mean by this ? It is
horribly tantalising to get a hint of events
going on around us and to learn nothing
more of them. It is like being told in
mockery to look into the street through a
blackened pane of glass. Once more, however,
my policy was to keep cool, and it
had served me so well during a month
that I was not going to alter it now.

On the officials of the prison my composure
had produced the best effect. The
governor must have ascertained that I was
no common prisoner, for he treated me with

great deference, and my warder grew more
obsequious every day. Two things touched
him deeply : I gave him a couple of cigars
every day, and I allowed him to take away
more than half the food that was brought
me. He told me that he was a married
man, and that he carried the food home to
his wife. He never let me know what his
name was, and I never asked him. I never
asked him who paid for my food. I put
no questions whatever, on the principle of
hearing no lies.

This system has its great advantages,
for if you have to deal with discreet people
it increases their regard for you, whereas
if you have to do with persons possessed
with an inclination to talk, your silence
pricks their curiosity. My warder happened
to be a man who could have lost
his tongue without much missing that

member ; but he was warm-hearted, and
in his simple German way he became
troubled with the desire to prove his
gratitude. The arrival of Christmas no
doubt expanded his flow of charity. On
Christmas Eve he brought me a much
better supper than usual, with a bottle of
Rhine wine, a cake, and a miniature
Christmas tree with some sweetmeats on
it. When I suggested that he should take
home all these dainties to his family, he
fairly gushed, and made what was for him
a long speech.

Oh, gracious sir, I should so like to do
something that would please you.'

This idea fructified. Christmas in gaol
is like other days, and what festival there
was in it to me came from the pleasures of
memory and the re-reading of Dickens's
Christmas Cm^ol; but during that day and

the two following days my warder often
looked at me, was absent-minded, seemed
about to speak, but checked himself. I
saw that he wanted to make me a proposal,
and I imagined that he was going to
offer to post a letter for me. But I was
quite on the wrong scent. On the last
day of the year, and just a week after my
parting interview with the magistrate, he
came into my room earlier than usual,
bustled around under pretext of doing
something, then suddenly said in a tremulous
whisper —

Would the gracious Herr like to see a
spectacle ? '

What spectacle ? '

Come along with me, but tread softly.'

I followed him out of my room, and he
locked the door with stealthy movements
like a cat's. We walked down a passage

in the direction we always took in going to
the bath-room, but went farther, to a door
on which was written ' Infirmary.'

Gently taking my hand and placing a
forefinger over his lips, the warder led me
into a nearly dark room. It was cold, for
the window was open, but the light was
shut out h^' jalousie shutters. Pointing to
these the warder whispered, ' Look.'

One could see through the slanting
blades of ^h^ jalousies without being seen.
I looked from the height of a first floor
into a yard, and saw an assemblage of
about twenty men dressed in black. Some
of them held note-books, and almost all
wore black gloves. In the middle of the
yard lay a truss of straw, which two menin
shirt sleeves and with leather aprons
were spreading out over the pavement ;
there stood also two baskets — one long

and deep, the other small and shallow, and
a table with a dark cloth, on which was a
leather case.

These were the first aspects which
the eye took in. A more attentive gaze
showed that the baskets were half filled
with sawdust, and that the straw was being
spread in front of a four-legged stool.
Then a clergyman in a black gown appeared,
walking slowly backwards, and
reading out of a book.

An execution ? ' I said, startled.

Hush ! ' answered the warder, raising
his forefinger again.

My eyes were now rivetted on the
scene. A wretched-looking man, with a
coat thrown loosely over his shoulders,
shambled along, facing the retreating
chaplain, and supported by two warders,
who held him under the arms. His arms

were tied behind his back, his teeth
seemed to be chattering, and his legs
shook. All the spectators removed their
hats, and some of the men with note-books
spoke nervously to each other and
began to scribble. In another moment
the man was seated on the stool, the coat
was pulled off him, and he sat with no
upper garment except his shirt, and his
neck bare to the shoulders. A shiver of
cold and fear made him shrink up his back.
He looked round supplicatingly for the
chaplain, who had withdrawn from him,
and half rose from his stool, but several
warders circled round him, and for a few
moments he was lost to view.

During that short time the executioner,
a middle-sized man, in dress clothes, but
with his cuffs turned up, opened the leather
case and rapidly drew out a sword about

thirty inches long, and shaped Hke a razor,
that is, the blade narrowed near the handle
but broadened towards the top to a width
of some eight inches. Holding this weapon
behind his back, the executioner made a
sign with his left hand and moved forward.
The warders started apart, and the convict
could be seen blindfolded. Then something
was done by one of the assistants
with a leather apron, who crouched behind
the stool, and seemed to give the doomed
man a slap on the small of the back, causing
him to crane abruptly forward. In the
same moment the sword gleamed, the white
shirt was splashed with blood, and the
dead man tumbled on to his knees, the
stool falling with him, on to the litter of
straw, part of which became scarlet. But
the head was not quite severed from the
body. The second man with an apron

caught Up the head by the hair, did some
hacking with a cleaver, and having detached
the head, threw it into the smaller
basket. Meanwhile his companion had
lifted the kicking body — for it kicked
horribly — by the waist and swung it into
the longer basket. Two or three times
the soles of the dead man's shoes appeared
over the basket's edge, struggling convulsively.
One of the men with note-books
thereupon staggered and dropped in a faint.
The others were all white as corpses.

It was a hideous sight. One may
reason that a man who has made such
a mess of his career that society can do
nothing but kill him or shut him up for
life gets the more merciful treatment when
his sufferings are abridged — but these are
not the reflections which start up whilst
one is seeing a fellow-creature butchered.
VOL. II 41

I turned sickened from the window and
was confronted by my warder, whose eyes
listened with excitement.

Did you see, gracious sir, how the
blow fell ? That man was my brother.'

What, the executed man ? ' I asked, in
horror.

No, the executioner.'

Well, kindness and vanity take many
forms. This warder had combined the
repayment of his obligations to me with
the — to him — gratifying exhibition of the
talents that ran in his family. I hope he
felt requited for his thoughtfulness, as the
execution quite robbed me of my appetite
for luncheon, and he was enabled to carry
off the whole meal to his family. But I
said to him as he removed the dishes —

What was that man beheaded for ?
Murder ? '

No, sir. Anarchism, incendiarism, inciting
soldiers to mutiny.'

This was the most depressing day I
had spent in prison. I could not shake off
my melancholy. When not thinking of
the ghastly slaughter scene I thought of
myself with terrors which I had never
experienced. It was childish, but I could
settle to nothing, pined for companionship,
and started at the slightest sound.

Evening drew on, my gas had just been
lighted, and I was walking up and down
my room with my hands in my pockets,
when the governor entered, cap in hand.

It is my mission to tell you, Mein Herr,
that you are free ; but at the same time to
deliver to you this paper, which is an order
of expulsion from the kingdom.'

As I took the paper without replying,

for my head swam a little, the governor
added —

The money and other articles belonging
to you will be returned in my office,
and the warder will at once pack your
things. A police official is in waiting to
accompany you to the railway station.'

Freedom ! To exchange the restraints of
a prison and the solitude of a silent room
for the liberty of a railway platform, and
this within half an hour ; to find myself
whisked from a cell into a first-class railway
carriage ; to rejoice with a mild bewilderment
at the long unaccustomed
sensation of a watch in one's pocket, and
a useful of money ; to see opposite one
the unsuspicious faces of ordinary travelling
companions ; and to feel oneself moving
as fast as an express can go, right
away from the people who have held one

in bondage — this is a pretty startling
transition.

Our minutes had been calculated so
exactly that, after a rapid drive to the railway
station in the company of a silent
detective of good manners, there was only
just time to have my luggage registered.
My ticket had previously been taken and
paid for by the detective, who, in handing
it to me, simply said —

I must ask your parole, sir, that you
will not leave the train until you have
crossed the frontier.'

I suppose he waited somewhere about
to see that I actually got into the train,
but he took leave of me at the door of the
waiting-room, and I walked unescorted to
the carriage which a porter chose for me.
In a couple of minutes more we were off.
Not one of my three travelling companions

looked like a detective, and they took less
notice of me than I of them.

Things never come to pass as we had
anticipated. I had always pictured myself
as recovering my liberty on a sunny morning,
and as rushing off to the British Legation
to demand explanations about my long
imprisonment, and to collect news as to all
that had occurred whilst I was under lock
and key. But now I was being shot out
of the country like a cannon ball. What
had become of Prince Frederick, and had
he deserted me ? How were things going
with the Princess Dot ? Had my uncle
the Bishop, my only near relative, been
informed of my imprisonment ? Did Sir
George Malmsey know that I was to be
released ? and why had not Mr. Mildmay
Milkinson been sent to the station to seeme
off?

These were so many points of interrogation
which danced before my mind's
eyes — insoluble. Once my first excitement
had subsided, I regretted that I had not
thought of buying a newspaper at the
station, though, had I got the paper, I
could not have deciphered much of the
German print by the dull light of our oil
lamp. My three fellow-travellers talked
of frosts and floods, corn and cattle, and
left the train just before we passed the
Kronheim frontier, three hours after starting.
The rest of the night journey was
through deserted stations, where everything
was shut up. Towards daybreak
the stiff cut of Prussian uniforms gave
place to the trimmer dress of Belgian
officials ; and then we came to Brussels in
broad daylight, with a quarter of an hour's
stoppage, hot coffee and native newspapers

in any quantity. But in not one of these
journals was there any mention of the
names that were running in my mind.
Our train left the Belgian lines for the
French, and at Calais there was a supply
of the day's London journals, which I
studied eagerly as we crossed the Channel.
A five-column speech by Mr. Robinson to
his constituents, ten other columns of
speeches under the heading of ' Parliament
out of Session,' foreign telegrams about
Russian armaments and Austrian scares ;
but not a line of personal interest to me.

I arrived at Charing Cross early in the
afternoon, and went at once to the hotel
where Prince Frederick and I had been
staying. The Prince had been gone nearly
a month, and my servant Joe had gone
with him.

His Royal Highness left for the

Continent, I believe, sir,' said the porter.

Count Stolz went with him.'

Are there any letters for me ? Any
cards ?'

None, sir, I think. At least let me
see ' (turning over a packet of letters).

No, sir, nothing.'

I asked for a room, changed my clothes,
and drove to the Kronheim Legation.
The Minister was at home, and I sent up
my card, but the servant returned with a
message that his Excellency begged to be
excused from receiving me, as he was
extremely busy. I asked to see one of
the secretaries, but was informed that the
Chancery was only open from i to 3 p.m.

The next thing was to go to my Club
and call for a file of the Times.

When one has been deprived of news
for five weeks the amount of reading to be

achieved looks colossal ; but the real news
bears only the same proportion to the
reading as the milk in a cocoa-nut does to
the outer husk. So much of what seems
true to-day proves wrong tomorrow. So
much speechifying is mere verbiage. So
much wise prediction becomes unfulfilled
prophecy. The ultimate which were to
shake the world blow off in smoke. The
election which was to decide the fate of
parties decides nothing, for both parties
claim the victory. The great man who
fell ill and was to die recovers, and the
bulletins of his doctors read like doleful
jests. The runaway murderer, who was
never to be caught, has been captured
and hanged.

Beginning with the journal of remotest
date I glance through thirty copies without
finding any mention of Prince Frederick,

except one bare announcement of his departure
for the Continent. Of Kronheim
and its affairs not one word, until I came
upon this small print despatch in one of
Renters telegrams —

Sabelburg, 2^th December.
The English officer, Captain Merryweather, who
was seriously injured in the late electoral riots, and
who has been nursed at the Town Infirmary, has now
completely recovered, and will return to England tomorrow.


Town Infirmary ! Merryweather ! I
supposed this notice, though the name was
distorted, must refer to me ; but whether
it had been inserted by authority or was
simply the guessing of an ill-informed
reporter there was nothing to show.

At this instant a page laid a fresh
edition of an evening journal on the table
before me, and the first thing I read in it
was this —

Marriage of the Grand-duke of Weniggeld.

Sabelburg, 1st January.
The marriage of H.S.H. the Grand-duke of
Weniggeld with H.R.H. the Princess Dorothea of
Kronheim took place to-day. The ceremony was
performed according to the Lutheran rite in the
private chapel of the palace, and was attended by
the King, the members of the Royal family, the
Ministers and members of the Diplomatic Body, including
Sir George Malmsey, the British Minister.
The bride was given away by her brother Prince
Frederick of Kronheim. The bride and bridegroom
leave this afternoon for the Grand-duke's chateau of
Kleinmunz.

That was all. The event was not of
sufficient importance to British readers to
be reported by a special correspondent ;
but at all events there was enough in the
short message to give me my bearings.
So Princess Dot was married at last, and
I had been set free on the very day before
her wedding ! Prince Frederick, too, was

at that very moment in Sabelburg. What
I must next do was now the point to consider,
and I concluded that my best course
would be to call on the Springfield and ask
for news of Isabel Meadowes. She could
not have been married to Prince Frederick
without something being said about it in
the papers, and it was therefore to be
surmised that Lady Springfield's marriage
plot had once more been marred, with
what consequences to Isabel herself it was
painful to conjecture.

I felt a real pity for the girl come over
me as I drove up to the house in Park
Lane. Appearances suggested that she
had been once more sacrificed to enable
Princess Dot to get married. But now
that Princess Dot was more or less happily
disposed of, was there anything to stand
in the way of her union with Prince

Frederick if the latter was honestly minded
to forego his political rights ? I was
pondering over this in the dining-room
of Lady Springfield's house when some
hurried steps pattered on the staircase,
and her ladyship marched into the room,
dressed all in black. She closed the door
behind her, waited for a moment until the
footman's steps were out of hearing, then
walked up to me with her arms folded, and
said —

You villain ! '

What do you mean, Lady Springfield ? '
I exclaimed, taken aback.

'Yes, you are a villain,' she repeated,
and I never saw so much fury concentrated
on a woman's face. ' Tell me what you have
done with my daughter? How much did
you get to spirit her away ? How much,
eh ? ' and her ladyship rapped a finger and

thumb into the palm of her hand with the
insulting gesture of counting money.

I really don't understand a word of
what you say,' was my answer. ' I have
just returned from Kronheim.'

Of course you have been to Kronheim.
In what place out there have you lodged
Isabel ? Perhaps you have brought me a
letter from the girl. Give it me and tell
me your business ; but by the heavens
above us ! if you have never known what
an angry woman's wrath is, you shall learn
now. I'll expose you until there isn't a
Club in London where you dare show your
face, you scoundrel, you — you mean, mercenary,
venal villain ! '

Screaming and staring with rage, her
ladyship shook her fist in my face, and
would have struck me had I not stepped
back.

Will you hear a word of reason ? ' I
said, putting up a hand to defend myself.
I have not seen your daughter for more
than five weeks, and I came here to learn
what had become of her.'

You lie every time you open your
mouth,' screamed the enraged woman. ' I
wouldn't believe you on your dying oath.
If you have nothing more to tell me than
that, leave the house.'

Yes, certainly.'

But as I moved towards the door she
stood in my way and poured out a fresh
torrent of abuse. Her daughter had left
the house more than a month before, and
she was persuaded that I had connived at
her eloping on to the Continent with Prince
Frederick. That was the substance of her
incoherent declamation. If she had hated
me less, she would have seen by my face
VOL. II 42

that all she was saying caused me the
utmost astonishment and even dismay.
But she had a pent-up store of wrath to
vent, and was in no mind to consider
whether I was being rightly accused until
she had had her full say.

The moment was not favourable for
informing her ladyship that I had just
spent five weeks in gaol. I was anxious
to circulate myself, but felt sympathy
for the indignant mother whose daughter
had been decoyed away. Having always
entertained a suspicion that there was
something strange underlying the Prince's
renewal of intimacy with Isabel, I was
prepared to believe now that he had practised
some ruthless deception on the girl.
Was he not nearly a king, and she, in the
sight of exalted ones like himself, nothing ?
I had just experienced in my own person

the unscrupulousness of the mighty when
they want to remove an obstacle from
their path, and how could Prince Frederick,
bred in the traditions of the despotic Court
of Kronheim, hesitate to gratify his feelings,
whether they were of profligacy or
spite ? Lady Springfield had twice crossed
him ; she had thwarted his marriage and
brought disgrace upon him. Was it incredible
that he should have vindictively
determined to cast her from him for ever
by covering her with confusion and dishonouring
her daughter ?

I thought of this, but could say nothing,
for Lady Springfield went on raving,
and when she had exhausted herself she
screamed to me again to leave the house.
I could only remark as I opened the door —

I wish you had allowed me to speak,
for you are utterly mistaken about me, and

I would gladly help you. If tomorrow
you can think more calmly, send to my
hotel for me and I will come.'

Go out ; I shall never want to see
your face again, unless I can see it on the
gallows,' was her hoarse, maddened answer,
and I walked out of the house an utterly
puzzled man.

END OF VOL. II

Printed by ^ ^ V^ Clark, Edinburgh

«^^i*?V»

m

'Vl-.'.'X/. 1', ''■-;

-.Vv

r

^1

r>,

i.HtiVNj ;.V,, •,, . ■ •

■;.^.l

-:

>.'.

^:

^'M^^l'.'^,?^

H;. *L.*>.:v-;;i^

VOL. Ill



Helps, Madame, Monseigneur le Prince est mort ! '
Consoles vous, Monsieur ; vous ne manquerez jamais de
maitres. '

Meme. de Steel.

BY

JAMES Brindled-RICHARDS

AUTHOR OF 'seven YEARS AT ETON,' 'tHE DUKES MARRIAGE,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLS.— VOL. Ill

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY & SOX, NEW BURLINGTON ST.

publishers in ©riiinarp to fer fHajestg tfjc ©uccn



A /I rights reserved

PRINCE Frederick

CHAPTER XXXIII

The night's sleep brought no counsel ; but
I felt I ought to go to Guildford and see
my uncle the Bishop, who might be in
alarm about me. I had also to ask his
advice about my prospects, for I was now
once more without a situation. On the
way to the station I called at my banker's
and learned that my last quarter's salary
had been paid in the day before, which
was New Year's Day.

I might have spared myself the journey

to Guildford, for my uncle had heard
nothing of my mishaps, and was in great
trouble on his own account, because his
chaplain had unexpectedly joined the
Salvation Army, and was marching about
the streets of Guildford with a big drum.

He has placarded the walls with a
challenge to me to do battle publicly with
Satan in the Cathedral next Sunday afternoon,'
moaned his lordship. ' You know
such a thing would not be proper at my age.'

The Bishop then said that my aunt had
felt surprise at receiving no letter from meat
Christmas ; but attributed the circumstance
to my travelling in Popish countries
where Christmas was unknown. When I
related my adventures the kind old man
was full of sympathy. He was not one of
those uncles who think that nephews are
born to scrapes, and must necessarily be

in the wrong ; he accepted the whole of
the story as I gave It, and patted my
shoulder, calling me ' My poor boy.' His
advice, too, was calm and sensible. He
said that, having received no notice of dismissal,
I must write to Prince Frederick
and request his instructions. As to the
alleged elopement with Miss Meadowes,
that was none of my business. I must
first wait and see whether the facts were
as represented by Lady Springfield, for it
might be that there had been a private
marriage, and if so, Miss Meadowes was the
Prince's wife before God — all human laws
to the contrary notwithstanding.

Prince Frederick may have no power
to make a woman a queen — that is a
matter for the civil law — but any woman
whom he marries in a church is his wife,
and he can marry no other. That is plain.'

I lunched with my uncle and aunt and
the flock of my cousins, girls and boys,
with whom I was a favourite. I had not
forgotten to bring a few New Year s gifts
from town to cement the family bond.
Even my aunt Episcopal was gracious tome
in her grim way, as I was a nephew
who had never drawn on the avuncular
cash-box.

You have heard of the insane behaviour
of Mr. Tomkins' (the chaplain), she said.
He has fallen in love with a lieutenant-colonel.'


A lieutenant-colonel ? *

'Yes, a chit of a thing who served in
the stationer's shop where Mr. Tomkins
bought his note-paper. She joined the
Salvation Army, and the goose has gone
after her.'

With a staff appointment ? '

Xo. Mr, Tomkins is only a private. I
am ashamed of him. but you will see that
man will end his days as a shaven monk,
eating raw carrots, and receiving the
bastinado every fast day : much good may
it do him 1 '

Perhaps he will marry his lieutenant-colonel'


Xo ; it seems she prefers the trumpet-major,
a reformed Christy Minstrel, who
plays on the concertina.'

My girl cousins made great fun over
Mr. Tomkins, until their father remarked
it was no laughing matter to him. Then
my aunt, who had not yet been told how 1
had spent my time lately, said she supposed
I must have been very o-av on the Continent,
and wondered whether I had ever
thought of taking a German wife.

We fell in with some old friends of

yours the other day — the Covenants.
Wasn't there something once between you
and Miss Davenant ? '

'That's ancient history,' I answered,
feeling the eyes of my girl cousins twinkling
upon me. ' Isn't she Mrs. Lemesurier
now ? '

No indeed ; the match is broken off.
General Davenant and Mr. Lemesurier
had a difference of opinion.'

I am not surprised at that,' I said, with
the secret exultation of one avenged.

The Bishop thinks Mr. Lemesurier
did not behave well,' continued my aunt,
though in these days, when there is anything
of politics in a dispute, there seems
to be no standard of right and wrong. In
his conversations with the General, Mr.
Lemesurier had picked up a great many
facts about the army, and these he disclosed

in a violent speech which he made
to a mass meeting of the 
Associations, abusing the service,
ridiculing our generals, and saying that all
officers were idle and overpaid. General
Davenant, who was suspected of having
supplied him with his facts, was called to
account at the '' Rag," and his relations
with his brother generals became so unpleasant
that he spoke very angrily to Mr.
Lemesurier. Mrs. Davenant tried to
make the peace, but Miss Davenant took
her father's part, and vowed she would
never marry a man who abused the army.'

'There's a brave little girl,' I said.

'That may be,' replied my aunt, 'but
girls do no good by interfering with
politics.'

Oh, mamma ! ' exclaimed my eldest
cousin ; ' fancy one of us marrying a

dissenter who went about saying that
bishops were idle and overpaid.'

I felt much less lonely after hearing this
story about Connie Davenant. My old
Colonel was himself again (he had lost
much stature In my sight since he had
accepted a man like Lemesurler for his
son-in-law), and perhaps Connie might
prove her old self again if I tried. Why
not ? It was no doubt absurd to think of
going near Connie, as my circumstances
had not Improved in the least since I had
been warned off from paying my court to
her ; but where a man's first love is concerned
he does not stick at absurdities. I
suddenly burned to ascertain whether
Connie had remained true to me In heart.
Nonsensical It certainly was, but I could
not resist the temptation of calling at the
Covenants' house as soon as I returned to

town. There was a good excuse for a
visit — that of wishing the General and his
family a Happy New Year. I had never
neglected writing or calling at this season
since Colonel Davenant had taken command
of our resident.

On a fine winter afternoon, when the
London sky has a rosy light and the dry
streets are crowded with carriages and
well-dressed people, the English capital
conveys, to a man coming fresh from such
a place as Kronheim, an idea of immensity,
liberty, and wealth which dwarfs every continental
city save Paris. And even Paris
does not impress the mind so strongly. In
this huge free city, abounding in evidences
of the national activity in every department
of life — politics, pleasure, art, science,
trade, travel, charity, and religion — the
monotonous social existence and the petty

State cares of small forlorn countries
appear very mean.

Look at an advertisement-hoarding, and
you become aware that half the posters on
it could not be placarded in a continental
land. An indignation meeting is to beheld
to denounce the foreign policy of the
Government. Socialists are summoned to
assemble in their tens of thousands in a
Royal park to demonstrate that the
oppressed working-man is tired of waiting.
A clergyman is going to deliver a sermon
on the sins of the governing classes. A
discharged convict is to give an address on
the iniquities of the police. A cashiered
detective has opened a Private Inquiry
Office. The Lord Chief Justice of England
will take the chair at a thieves' supper
all habitual criminals being earnestly
invited to attend. The Sisterhood of

Pure Women convokes the most worthless
of their sex to a public tea. The Association
of Resolute Women calls upon the
public to defy the Vaccination Laws. An
exploration company, which is going to
open up a new continent with consequences
which may be portentous to the army and
navy of the kingdom, issues its prospectus
without a word to show that the Government
has been consulted in the matter.
Rival navigation companies advertise new
lines of steamers, started with millions of
capital and without a shilling of Government
subsidy. Colonial emigration societies
appeal to able-bodied men of twenty to
twenty-five (the age when all foreigners
are required for military service), and side
by side is a notice from the Horse Guards
gently coaxing young men of the same age
towards the army by offers of pay equal to

that of a continental sergeant - major.
Then the temperance people are to the
front adjuring their countrymen to diminish
the 'scandalous" public revenues derived
from alcohol by drinking no beer,
wine, or spirits (imagine a foreign finance
minister reading that !), and the anti-tobacconist
and the anti tea-and-coffee
exists are all struggling in their turns to
stop up some of the sources of Imperial
revenue. Amid all this the notice that an
M.P. will read a lecture at a suburban
Athenaeum on the ' Cost to the Nation of
an Hereditary Monarchy,' hardly awakens
the mildest surprise.

But the sensation of being in a land
where such things can be published must
quicken the energies of any man who has
health, youth, and a fund of hopefulness.
A Kronheim policeman going his morning

rounds and discovering that sacrilegious

hands had posted such announcements as

the above on the dead walls of King

Franz's capital, would scamper to the

nearest station to proclaim that the whole

political and social system of Kronheim

was cracking to its foundations. Yet

Kronheim is a free land, as continental

ideas of liberty go. Our own liberties

being reared on a very different kind of

basis to that which suffices abroad, our

own individual consciousness of what each

man can do for himself by thought and

pluck ought to be proportionately stronger

and more active ; and it requires only a

little reflection on our opportunities to

make it so. Projects of all kinds came

into my mind as I compared the country

where I stood to that which I had just

left, and though it seemed that I must now
VOL. Ill 44

begin life afresh, I valued the experience
I had gained as a stock-in-trade with
which to begin my new venture, and I
felt nothing daunted.

As soon as Mrs. Davenant saw me she
gave me a good motherly smile and shook
hands heartily, but having done this
wagged a finger at me.

'Now I know what you've come about,
Ferdie, but it won't do. Are your Irish
tenants paying you any rent ? '

Not a penny.'

And have you an income on which to
keep a wife ? '

Nothing that can be called an income,
I am afraid.'

Well then, you see it's of no use. Of
course we would rather have had you fora
son-in-law than Mr. Lemesurier, but
beggars can't be choosers. Connie and

the General have been a great trouble
to me.'

She sighed, and was looking more careworn
than when I had last seen her. She
remarked that it was idle to lose one's
temper about politics any more than over
a game of football. Men may hustle and
kick one another during the game, but
they can walk arm-in-arm off the field.
Mr. Lemesurier, she said, had been
utterly astonished at the behaviour of
Connie and the General, and thought he
had been shamefully treated.

I myself feel some shame at our
warmth,' added Mrs. Davenant, ' for the
whole thing has blown over now, and who
would remember Mr. Lemesurier's speech
if we ourselves had not made such a fuss
about it ? The General says that a century
ago Mr. Lemesurier would have been

put into the pillory for such a speech.
That may be — though I fancy Mr. Leme-
surer would have kept his skin safe in
any century. But you see, men treat
politics as a game, and they have altered
the rules of it. If it has become an accepted
thing that lies uttered on a platform
are not lies, how can we help it ? I
feel that we have acted like the Frenchman
in a cricket match who wanted to
challenge one of the players for bowling
at his legs.'

You don't expect me to take Leme-
surer's part, do you ? '

I suppose not,' she said, and to change
the subject she asked me what I had been
doing.

I had no intention of making a confidante
of her, but she evinced such a
genuine interest in all I related that I

ended by telling her everything. The
story did us both good, and to her it
proved a welcome diversion from her own
troubles. She was quite the * Mrs.
Colonel ' again, as she listened with
knitted brows to my interview with Lady
Springfield. I had often seen her hearken
like that to the recital of a subaltern's
scrapes, and exercise her kindly wits in a
brusque manner to extricate him.

They have got you into a bad scrape,'
she said, looking at the matter much more
seriously than the Bishop did. * You cannot
rest for a day under the imputation of
having acted as Prince Frederick's decoy-bird.'


But my conscience is quite clear.'
That's not enough. You are not a
politician like Mr. Lemesurier, who can
overwhelm his accusers from a platform.

Those gentlemen who make such lax
rules for themselves are pitiless to soldiers
who get so much as a speck of mud on
their red coats, and Lady Springfield is
quite capable of bespattering you till no
amount of brushing would make you presentable.
You don't want Lemesurier to
be going about in clubs and saying :
There's something ugly against that
fellow Meredith," do you ? '

No ; be hanged to him ! but what can
I do?'

She reflected for a minute.

Your uncle is of no use in an emergency
of this kind, so the General must
stand by you. As your old Colonel he
can vouch for your character, and he must
call with you upon Lord Springfield and
set you right. As for Prince Frederick,
you must do as the Bishop advises, and

send him a simple report of what has
happened to you.'

Thankful enough for these suggestions,
I rose to take leave, but Mrs. Davenant
asked me to remain until the General and
Connie, who had been for a walk together,
came home. ' I don't mind your
seeing Connie,' she said ; ' but no nonsense,
if you please.'

The General walked in soon after,
dandified as usual in his dress, but rather
frosty and fierce of countenance, like a man
who has not yet recovered from the excitement
of kicking another man out of
his house. His fluffy white hair stood upon
end, and his moustache seemed to
bristle as he gave me a tight grip of the
hand and asked me for news of my health.

Glad to see you, by George ! and I
know somebody else who will be.'

Connie entered a little later with a
blush and a glance there is no describing.
Such meetings cause an embarrassment
which defy all attempts at self-possession.
One tries to play at being old friends, but
the shake of the hands is less warm than
one would have liked it to be, or too warm,
and leaves the feeling that one has made
an advance over soon. If only we had
been alone ! But Mrs. Davenant had not
confidence enough in me for that. So it
came to pass that we all sat down round
the fire — Connie between her father and
mother — and Mrs. Davenant regaled the
General with the whole of my story, restoring
me to my old footing with Connie
thereby much more quickly and effectively
than I could have done it myself. Of
course Connie endeavoured to keep her
eyes off me during the recital, and of

course I observed her stealing sidelong
glances at me when she thought I was
not looking. She pitied me for the trials
I had suffered, and I was drawn back to
her by her unspoken sympathy. It was
the old story. But there had never been
such a link between her and Lemesurler
as was then reformed between her and me
that I could have sworn.

And It mattered little to me that my
Irish tenants were on the strike ; Connie
was there as pretty as of old and as
faithful, worth living for and worth winning.
Her father and mother were perhaps
thinking the same things as passed
in our minds, and wondering how the
climax could be brought about, not now,
but some day or other. Certainly they
were kind and parental, and Connie
watched them. But she only appeared

to be pulling off her gloves, and doing
that much without any demonstration.
Yet it was when the left hand glove had
been withdrawn that a little gold bangle
slipped down over the wrist. That bangle
was not Lemesurier's gift.

How well I remembered buying it,
and clasping it one birthday evening over
that same small wrist !

It flashed upon me just for one moment
in the firelight, then Connie covered it
up again. But one by one quite slowly
her fingers were unclasped from it, as I
purposely kept my eyes away, and then
with a timid growing boldness she began
to turn it round and round her wrist until
I looked full upon it and upon her.

General Davenant abruptly rose, looked
at the clock, and said, ' I'll call at once on
Lady Springfield and ask where her
husband is to be found.'

But dinner ? ' expostulated Mrs. Davenant.


Dandie and I can dine somewhere
together. We mustn't let this business
tarry.'

There is such a beautiful hare sighed
Mrs. Davenant. ' Couldn't you dine here
and send a note down to Lady Springfield ?'

But the General wanted to go out to

discuss sundry points which could not well
be talked over in Connie's presence. He
had his doubts as to whether Miss
Meadowes was worth 'powder and shot.'
We set out westwards together, and he
was soon laying down the axiom that cases
in which * women or horses are mixed up
require to be talked over, and walked over,
and slept over a dozen times before you
touch em.'

This did not prevent him from giving a
very smart double knock on the door of
Lady Springfield's house ; and when he
came out after a quarter of an hour's talk
with her ladyship (I had been patrolling on
the pavement all the time) he said, * I
think I've made the old girl wary of
hitting you, Dandie ; but, dash it, I feel
some pity for her. If any Prince served
Connie as this Prince of yours has treated

Miss Meadowes his rank shouldn't protect
him.'

But has Lady Springfield any proof
that her daughter has been misused ? '

'Well, the girl has left home, and her
mother don't know her address. But
there's a mystery, for Lord Springfield
appears to be in the secret, though he's
gone off too to avoid being ragged at, as he
told his wife in a letter which she read to me.'

All that's very strange.'

Much stranger than the fact that I'm
feeling hungry. Suppose we turn into a
beef-shop ? '

The 'beef shop' which the General
selected was the strangers' dining-room of
his Club. When dinner had been ordered
we telephoned to Lord Springfield's Club
to ask if his lordship was in town, and
received answer in the affirmative.

'Then we can sit down in peace,' said
the General. ' Lord Springfield wouldn't
miss his rubber at the Carlton, and we shall
catch him there between ten and midnight.
But I'll send a note to make sure.'

Isn't it curious, though, that Lady
Springfield shouldn't be able to find her
husband if he be really in town ? '

Perhaps she hasn't looked for him.'

The note was despatched, and we began
dinner. London is a small place as regards
those who live much in Club-land. While
we were still at table Lord Springfield
telephoned to ask where General Davenant
could be seen, and a quarter of an hour
later he walked into the smoking-room, to
which we had adjourned. He looked fresh
as a daisy, and was wearing his Star and
Riband of the Bath, for he was going to
some official party. Not at all, in externals,

did he convey the idea of an outraged
father whose daughter has been spirited
away.

The General and he were old friends,
and shook hands ; but Lord Springfield
wanted to draw me away for private
conversation, and would only speak on
indifferent matters before the General,
until the latter said to him straight out
that Lady Springfield had been bringing
railing accusations against me, and that
these must be withdrawn.

'Oh, I see — an affair of honour answered
the old diplomatist gaily. ' Well,
then, as concealment is impossible, I mayas
well speak out the truth.'

He then said that his daughter was
staying at Brighton with one of her aunts,
Lady Churchbury. ' You need be under
no apprehension about her. She went

away with my consent because Lady
Springfield was teasing Prince Frederick
overmuch, and this threatened to wreck
Princess Dorothea's chances of marriage.
Isabel — who is a kind girl — yielded to the
argument that it would be unfair to ruin
the Princess Dorothea's engagement, and
I agreed with her. We knew that Prince
Frederick would, after his sister's marriage,
be, comparatively speaking, free — that is,
he could marry as he pleased without
doing his sister any harm, and this consideration
settled our plans

And will the marriage take place
now ? ' asked General Davenant, removing
the cigar from his mouth and looking
keenly at the peer.

I hope so, at least. I personally — as
Meredith knows — have never been very
eager in the affair. I have only insisted

that if there is to be a marriage it should be
regular, with nothing clandestine about it.
But I had strong objections to figuring
publicly as a matchmaking father who was
trying to draw Prince Frederick into an
alliance which would bring family troubles
upon him. I may add that Isabel has
several times written to her mother to say
that she is in safe keeping, and I have
corroborated these assertions. Unfortunately
Lady Springfield would not believe
us. That is why, finding life unbearable at
home, I have been on a round of country
visits, but I came up to town as soon as I
heard that you, Meredith, were in England.'

Then you have heard that I was kept
for weeks in prison at Sabelburg ? '

Oh yes, and Prince Frederick telegraphed
me the news of your release,' said

Lord Springfield, with a serious air of
VOL III 45

sympathy and concern. 'We were most
sorry for you, and Prince Frederick was
quite beside himself with anger. He did
everything he could to obtain your liberation,
even travelling to Kronheim for the
special purpose, but that untimely visit
paid you by the Princess Dorothea double-locked
the doors of your gaol, and King
Franz was determined you should not
come out till his niece was married.'

'Why could not Sir George Malmsey,
who knew the facts, get me freed ? '

Hem, the authorities gave out that you
were ill, and I suppose Sir George thought
that if you were properly cared for you
were safer in an infirmary than at large.'

But my infirmary was a gaol.'

Well, diplomatists mustn't be too inquisitive,
you know. Sir George Malmsey
was ^o/d you were in a sort of hospital,

and then there was the story of your having
pummelled a policeman. That doesn't
do abroad. You weren't kept on straw
with a chain to your leg, or anything of
that sort, were you ? '

II fHaurait plus manqud que cela!

Lord Springfield laughed. 'Once when
I was minister at Naples,' he said, ' I went
to see an Englishman in prison who had
been dining with me a few nights before.
He had more chains on his legs than
trousers. His offence was writing a letter
to the Times. I said to him : "My dear
fellow, it would have been better for you if
you had been in correspondence with Old
Nick. These continental Governments,

you see

Has Prince Frederick been living
abroad ever since Meredith was imprisoned
? ' inquired General Davenant.

Oh no ; he was in Brighton most of
the time,' replied Lord Springfield trippingly.
' He went to Kronheim about
Meredith's scrape, and again for his sister's
wedding. It was from him I learned by
telegram that Meredith had been released.
At the same time he told me that he
should return to Brighton immediately
after the wedding, and I daresay he is
back by this time. I want Meredith to
go down to Brighton with me tomorrow.*

'Then you expect Miss Meadowes's
wedding will take place very shortly ? '
asked the General.

Yes, in a few days, I suppose,'
answered Lord Springfield.

There was a minute's silence. What
thoughts were passing through the General's
mind I cannot guess, and my own
I cannot remember. But Lord Springfield,

who was looking at us both, became
uneasy. He stood up, glanced at us
narrowly, and asked for a cigarette.
While puffing it he made some observations
about the weather, but furtively
removed the Star from his coat and asked
a waiter for a railway time-table.

Could you go down to Brighton tonight
? ' he asked, turning to me abruptly.

'Yes, if there is any hurry,' I answered.

Well, of course, I am impatient to see
my daughter,' replied Lord Springfield a
little absently. ' Let me see. We are
too late for the eleven o'clock express, and
after all it would be of no use to reach
Brighton after midnight. Don't you find
this room rather warm ? '

Open a window,' said the General to a
waiter.

But we were in an ordinary Club

smoking-room with a number of green-cushioned
leather chairs about, and no
more than a fair average of smokers
present. The ceiling was lofty. The
atmosphere — in which waiters glided about
with trays of whisky and soda — seemed
to the General and me fairly clear. Lord
Springfield, however, was nervous. Some
young gentlemen smoking at a table near
ours looked languidly at him and whispered.
All at once he plumped into a chair, and
letting the time-table fall on to the carpet,
muttered, with a short laugh and another
searching glance at the General and me :
It doesn't matter. The early train tomorrow
will do very well.'

Next morning Lord Springfield and I
met at the Victoria Station. We travelled
down to Brighton together, and all the

way his lordship was facetious in a forced
way about the marriage laws of continental
countries. He told me of persons
who had married four times without becoming
certain as to whether they had
become man and wife, and he lamented
that there was never such an uncertainty
as to the tightness of the connubial bond
when a man attempted to get divorced.

We drove to Lady Churchbury's. Her
ladyship had a large house in a square off
the King's Road, but facing the sea. A
clergyman glided out of the drawing-room
as we entered ; two other clergymen — too
obviously young curates — were waiting in
one of the rooms through which we passed.
Lady Churchbury, a tall, sharp-featured,
black-clothed widow, with clear hazel eyes
and a determined voice, said at once to
Lord Springfield —

I am so sorry. Our dear Isabel
must have crossed you, for she went
to London by the first train this morning.
But she told me to give you this
letter.'

Lord Springfield tore open the envelope
that was handed to him and read
the letter which it contained. Having
done so, he put the letter quietly into his
pocket, brushed the nap of his hat with his
sleeve, and said to Lady Churchbury : 'So
kind of you ! How well you are looking.
As for me and my young friend, I think we
have just time to catch the express back
to town.'

'I'm not going to let you off in this
way,' laughed Lady Churchbury. ' I am
starting a home for abandoned girls ; shall
I put you down for ten or twenty
pounds ? '

Twenty pounds — anything you please,'
said Lord Springfield with a titter. ' But
what about abandoned parents ? '

They are an interesting class too,'
said Lady Churchbury with a half-mocking
look at him. ' But what do you know
about them ? '

Lord Springfield only smiled, and as
we were leaving the house he paused to
bid me admire a beautiful copy of Greuze's
Crucis Cassel ' on one of the walls.
Capital painting,' he murmured. 'Such
an expression on the girl's face. Her
broken jug — you know the allegory. Perfect
altogether.'

But when the butler closed the house
door upon us and we stood in the street.
Lord Springfield's features underwent a
rapid change, and pulling Isabel's letter
from his pocket, he faltered —

I say, Meredith, what do you think of
this?'

Isabel's letter ran thus —

My dear Father — I must no longer conceal from
you that for the last month I have been the happy
wife of Prince Frederick. We love each other so
much, and he is so good to me ! I think we are
going to Vienna together, and then, perhaps, on to
Bulgaria. Frederick will be pleased if Captain Meredith
will join us at Vienna, for there is nobody whom
he trusts so much. We shall be staying at the Hotel
Archduke Charles as Count and Countess Griinsee.
Please say nothing of our marriage for the present.
It would only do harm. By and by everything will
come right, and you will own I have done well. God
bless you, dear father, for all your kindness to me. —
Your girlie, Belle.

Pes. — He is so good to me, you can have no idea
of it. I know Captain Meredith will not fail us.
Tell him to start at once.

What do you say to that ? ' asked Lord
Springfield as I gave him back the letter,
colouring. I felt that the blood had
mounted to my face and that I was judging
what had happened as a calamity,
though I was wishful to appear as if I
did not think this.

Would you like me to go to Vienna ? '
I inquired.

Yes ; you will go, Meredith, won't
you ? ' he said eagerly, and he laid a hand
on my arm. ' I've had time to reflect as
we came downstairs that it would be of no

use for me to go. But I know I can trust
the child's honour to you : you will see that
no wrong is done her

Of course I will serve her to the best
of my power,' I replied.

'You see, she was always a curious
child,' continued the peer garrulously, as
we walked away arm-in-arm. His emotion
did not alter his gait nor the outward
collectedness of his demeanour, but there
was a faint pink flush on his face and his
voice went fast. ' I have always been able
to manage my boy, who is in the army,
and my experience of life has been of some
use to him. If he gets into scrapes he
tells me so ; there are no folds in his
character. But Isabel I have never quite
understood. From the time when she
was a little trot no higher than my writing-table,
and used to nestle beside me as I

wrote my despatches, I have thought her
such a serious and wise child. This conduct
of hers quite amazes me — it astounds
me.'

We walked on towards the railway
station, and it being now the hour when
the King's Road is most crowded. Lord
Springfield waved the tips of his gloves,
smiling, to several acquaintances, and made
a few elaborate bows to ladies.

Thank Heaven, they none of them
know what has happened,' he remarked,
giving my arm a squeeze. ' I can tell that
by their faces, and Lady Churchbury hasn't
a suspicion. If diplomacy does nothing
else it teaches you how to read a face.'

It was odd that he should say this
immediately after having confessed that
his own daughter's physiognomy had been
a sealed book to him. My own thoughts

were running just then on the time
and manner of Isabel's wedding, and I
remarked that if Lady Churchbury's suspicions
had never been aroused, Miss
Meadowes must have been married in
Brighton. I proposed that we should go
and consult the registers in some of the
churches.

What would be the use of it ? But
do as you please,' he said, with sudden
feebleness. ' I must let you think forme
to-day, for this has rather upset
me.'

We took a fly and drove to the nearest
church, a place of extreme Ritualism.
The church was open, although no service
was being held. Reredos, crosses, candles,
flowers, frescoes, made it look like a foreign
church. Two or three people were praying
apart in solitude, and a smooth-shaven,

large-mouthed verger in a cassock was
gliding about with nothing particular todo.
On our asking to see the marriage
register and paying a fee, this man — an
Irishman — took us without more ado into
the vestry and showed us the book.
One of the last entries in it was dated
loth December, and bore the signatures :
Frederick von Hochfeld (the family name
of the Kronheim dynasty) and Isabel
Meadows with the names Maude
Churchbury and Joseph Trotman as witnesses.


Joseph Trotman was my servant. I
had made frequent inquiries about him
since my return, but as the people of the
hotel knew nothing about him, beyond
the fact that he had left the hotel with
Prince Frederick, I concluded he must
have gone to his home in the country.

On my uttering an exclamation at sight
of his name, Lord Springfield remarked —

Oh, I forgot to tell you that your valet
was taken into the Prince's service until
you should want him again.' Saying this,
he gave a shrug and laid a finger on Lady
Churchbury's signature. 'Who would
have thought it ? My old eyes are losing
their cunning, Meredith ; but I'll tell you
what, that woman is mad upon charities.
She would have sold her own husband
into slavery — when she had him — for the
mere pleasure of raising a subscription to
buy him back. I am convinced the Prince
must have given her a thumping bribe.'

Quite a plain wedding, your honour, buta
very generous gentleman,' interrupted the
verger, moved to loquacity by half a crown.
Sure it was at eight o'clock in the morning,
and never a soul prisent except those

two and the priest and myself, not counting
some other pale who came in from the
strate. But it's a ten pun' fee his reverence
got, and two gold sovereigns to myself,
and it's good luck I'll wish to any other
gentleman who brings the same.'

After this it was almost to be expected
that we should find a similar entry in the
registers of the German Vice-Consulate at
Brighton, and so we did.

Here it was a clerk who showed us
the register, which had just been freshly
signed by a happy-looking couple whom
we met as they came out of the office,
with a cohort of Teutonic friends and
relations. The clerk had no idea that
the signature Frederick von Hochfeld was
that of an heir to a throne, and we did
not enlighten him. But we now had
proofs that, so far as two ceremonies

VOL. Ill 46

could make Isabel's marriage valid, it was
a binding contract.

Lord Springfield heaved a deep sigh of
thankfulness at this, and I was hardly less
relieved. He spoke of going back to
London by the next train, but the temptation
to have a talk with Lady Churchbury
was too strong, and so, making an appointment
to meet me at the Grand Hotel in
an hour's time, he went off.

As it was about luncheon hour, I went
into the dining-room of the hotel and there
fell in with one of those old chums of
whom one loses sight for months or years
at a time, and whom one always meets
with pleasure but without astonishment.
His name was Dick Chippenham, and he
belonged to the Hussar regiment quartered
at Brighton. If there had been the faintest
rumour as to Isabel's clandestine marriage

Chippenham would have been the man to
hear of it. But he apparently knew nothing,
and was not so much as aware that
Prince Frederick had been in Brighton.
Sitting astride a chair while I lunched, he
regaled me with the small tattle of the
town. Mock at the scandalmongering
among ladies ! This Hussar could have
given points to a whole tea-table and have
scored best with perfect ease.

But what the dickens have you been
doing with yourself?' he exclaimed at last.
I met your old servant Joe Trotman a
short time ago, and he said you had gone
into some German service, but I couldn't
quite make out what. And is it true you
are engaged to be married ? '

To whom ? '

If you don't know you mustn't ask me,
old man. But we heard Connie Davenant

had thrown over that Radical Lemesurier
for your sake.'

This news never reached me.'

'That's the second He I've shot on the
wing this morning then,' said Chippenham
coolly. ' I generally pot half a dozen
every forenoon between the Pier and the
Aquarium.'

Lord Springfield remained absent two
hours instead of one. I was pacing outside
the hotel alone when he returned.
He was pale, and had evidently gone
through an affecting interview, but he
apologised with his usual good grace for
having kept me waiting, and remarked
pathetically that Isabel had been ' sold
in order that a pack of dirty little street
boys might have new shoes and stockings
next Christmas Day.'

It's just as I thought. Lady Church-bury

couldn't miss her chance with a Prince
who had a few thousand spare pounds
to give away, and so poor Isabel was
sacrificed.'

Not sacrificed ; she is married, and let
us hope happily.'

Well, yes, let us hope for the best, but
it was a regular intrigue. Supplications
and bribery on the Prince's part. Lady
Churchbury in confederacy and urging the
girl on, Isabel distracted and afraid he
would go away. I see it all now. Egad !
the Prince had taken a house in Lower
Rock Gardens, and most of the honeymoon
was spent there. But, Meredith,
the humiliating part of all this is, that I
must go and confess matters to Lady
Springfield.'

He looked so rueful as he said this that
I was inclined to smile. We had crossed

the road and were standing by the railings
near the beach. I am sure that as he
gazed out at the sea there was some wistful
idea in the old diplomatist's mind of
crossing that expanse of water to avoid
domestic explanations.

You see, I took Isabel's affairs into my
own hands, and this is the result,' he said.
Her mother will not be wrong if she calls
me to account, and really I think that
Isabel might — might, a — a — never mind
that. As for Lady Churchbury, I could
not help saying to her, '' My dear lady, if
there is no particular business that detains
you in Brighton I should advise you to
travel a little, for should Lady Springfield
pay you a visit I will not answer for the
consequences." She laughed, but I don t
think she will neglect the warning. Dear
me, dear me ! it is time for us to be going

to London now, and a nice evening I shall
spend. My lady will be telegraphing to
our boy Harry and telling him that I have
acted like an old simpleton. It will be
lucky if the two do not start for Vienna
together to make a scene. I shall have to
prevent that, but I shall never set myself
right in my own home unless Isabel becomes
Queen of Kronheim. Nothing buta
crown will do it, Meredith, nothing —
nothing.'

Nothing venture, nothing have,' I
answered, intent upon cheering him. ' If
Miss Meadowes was to become Queen of
Kronheim she could not have begun otherwise
than she has done. Remember, she
is a princess already. No laws that were
ever made could take her title of wife from
her. There was evidently a publication of
banns at the German Consulate, and the

liWlVERSiTY OF ILLINOIS

Prince gave his right name though he
concealed his title ; but even if the laws of
Kronheim denied the Princess the rank of
Royal Highness, the King would be bound
in honour to confer on her such a title as
would place her in a proper position before
the world. Besides, we have Prince
Frederick's own sense of honour and his
love to rely on.'

God bless you for saying that, my dear
fellow,' muttered Lord Springfield, squeezing
my arm. ' It's all true, and I daresay
everything will come right. But it gives
me a horrible twinge to think of Isabel
having to spend her whole life in vindicating
her position. I've known dreadful
women who went about with bundles of
papers and shabby bonnets proving to
everybody, except the right people, that
they had been lawfully married to princes;

and not less dreadful men with bundles
and shabby hats who could show they were
entitled to thrones. You get rid of such
people with five shillings ; but they leave
a sorry impression upon you of wrongs
done irremediably. Fancy Isabel coming
to that. However, I'll tell you what, I'll
telegraph to my boy Harry, who is at
Aldershot, and ask him to come and dine
with me this evening at my Club. You
will join us, and in this way Harry will get
the truth from me before Lady Springfield
is at him.'

But I thought of starting for Vienna
this evening.'

Isabel herself can only start this evening
if she was in Brighton this morning,
and it would be of no use for you to reach
Vienna before her. You may as well start
tomorrow.'

It never occurred to Lord Springfield
that he ought to make an effort to see his
daughter before she left London. There
are so many ways of exit from London to
the Continent that I did not myself entertain
the project. However, I declined
the invitation to dinner, and set off for
Vienna on the following day.

Second thoughts showed me no clear
object to be obtained by this journey, but
I was still in the Prince's service, and
should have been without occupation had
I remained in London. Then it was
possible that I might be of use, and Lord
Springfield was urging me to go, if only for
his sake.

It caused me a pang to leave England
again without once more seeing Connie,
but I dared not call on the Covenants lest
I should be questioned and be induced tolet

out a secret that was not mine, or else
give offence by concealing it. Accordingly
I wrote to the General telling him that I
had been summoned to join the Prince in
Vienna, but that I hoped to be back soon.
I also advised Lord Springfield to take
the General into his confidence, which he
promised to do as the surest way of stopping
Mrs. Davenant from guessing and
publishing her guesses among friends.

Chance so willed it that I was delayed
twenty-four hours at Cologne by the snow,
and had another long stoppage at Passa.
Our train after that went crawling for
miles between two high embankments of
snow and thousands of scavengers of both
sexes who were clearing the lines with
besoms. All the tag, rag, and bobtail of
the region had been called out for this
service. Altogether it took me four days

to reach Vienna, and, on alighting at the
Archduke Charles Hotel in the Karnthner
Strasse — the Bond Street of Vienna — at
about six in the evening, I was told that the
Count and Countess Grlinsee had arrived
on the previous day by way of Paris.

The door porter rang a bell, and down
came Joe Trotman almost in the twinkling
of an eye. His red hair and black-dyed
moustache were just the same as ever, and
he was in hiofh excitement at seeing his
old master.

We've been expecting you, sir,' he
said, his face exhibiting the greatest glee.
The Count and Countess will be so glad
to see you, sir. My lady sent me twice to
wait for the trains.'

Are their Royal Highnesses at home ?'

Yes, sir ; but ' (sinking his voice) ' we
don't call them Highnesses here. sir.

They're travelling strict incognito, and
nobody knows who they are. They've no
servants except myself and a maid whom
my lady engaged at Brighton.'

'Well, I'll just go and change my
things. '

Oh no, sir, please come up at once as
you are. Those are my orders, sir. The
Count and Countess will be going to the
Opera in about half an hour.'

Saying this, he took possession of some
of my light luggage and led the way upstairs.


A YOUNG man with a slight waxed moustache
and a diffident gesture held out a
hand to me when I entered the room, and I
was taken aback, for I did not immediately
recognise Prince Frederick.

Hasn't he altered since he shaved off
his beard?' laughed Isabel, as she came
forward blushing. Her face was radiant,
and the manner of the two was quite
that of a bride and bridegroom.

Nobody has recognised me here,' said
the Prince, stroking his almost hairless
countenance complacently. 'A few days

ago I met one of the archdukes who knows
me well, but he had not an idea as to who
I was. Sit down now, and first of all
accept my apologies for the worries which
you have undergone on my account.'

He held out his hand graciously in
saying this, and next minute we were all
three sitting as cosily together as though
we had only parted on the previous day.
I could not, however, accustom myself to
Prince Frederick, who had discarded much
of his majesty in removing his beard. As
for Isabel, she was quite free from awkwardness,
and there was a decided improvement
in her beauty. Anxiety no more
clouded her features. She had chosen her
portion in life, and seemed to be fully
satisfied with what she had done. I
noticed in one or two small things that
her ascendency over her husband was

complete, and he too was more composed
and serene than I had ever known him to
be.

We keep Viennese hours here,' he
remarked, glancing at the clock. ' The
Opera begins at seven, so we don't dine,
but sup when we come home, which will
be at about half past nine. Will you
accompany us, or would you prefer staying
here ? '

Honeymoon pairs do not require a third
to make company, so I decided upon remaining
at the hotel and changing my
things. As It was dry weather, the Count
and Countess went off to the Opera on
foot, arm-in-arm, she In a bonnet, he In
morning clothes. As soon as they were
gone Joe led me to my own room, and
while unstrapping my portmanteau began a
gushing circumstantial narrative about the

Prince's wedding and the journey to
Vienna. He told me little that was new,
however, and had no Idea as to what the
Prince's plans for the future might be.

My lady said something about travelling
in the East, sir, but that's all we know,
Eliza and I. Eliza is my lady's maid.'

Is she aware of her master's rank ? '

Yes, sir ; but she's a very prudent
young woman. There's nothing to fear
from her.'

Joe's indignation at my imprisonment
was comical in Its vigour, and he declared
that when the Prince came to be King he
J was going to ' hang everybody who had
laid a hand on me and flog the rest.' The
notion of absolute kingly power has not
yet been eradicated from the popular mind,
and, I suppose never will be. Joe's statement
was interesting only because it
VOL. Ill 47

revealed his belief that Isabel and the
Prince were most truly man and wife, and
that Isabel would certainly become Queen
when her husband succeeded to the crown.
I knew this could not be, but most curious
was I to ascertain what was Isabel's position
in her own eyes.

I had not to wait long for enlightenment.
The Prince evidently desired that
Isabel and I should have a talk in private,
for he sent her home from the Opera in a
cab, saying he would walk back to the hotel
and join us later. I was seated in the
drawing-room when Isabel returned. I
removed her furred mantle, and, as she
took off her hat, she turned and looked at
me smiling — such a smile, with so much of
queenliness, friendliness, and real happiness
in it ! She threw her gloves on the
table, and extending both her hands

grasped mine, held them for a moment,
and looking straight at me, said —

'Now I want a confession from you.
You were a little bit in love with me yourself,
eh ?'

More than a little bit, I think, since
you ask me,' and I daresay I coloured.

But it's all over now ? '

I don't know.'

'What nonsense,' and there was such a
merry mockery in her eyes that I myself
laughed in an embarrassed way. Then
she threw my hands from her with a smile,
and said : ' I tell you it is all nonsense, but
you must plainly declare this : that you are
not jealous of my husband, and that you
will serve us both without any arriere-
pense'

Cela va sans dh^e'

Remember that I have loved him from

the first,' she continued with animation.
I never cared for anybody else, and even
when we were separated I knew he would
come back to me. What do you say ? '

Nothing. But I had it on my lips to
observe that at one time you concealed
your sentiments very well.'

That may be, for I had my hours of
despondency and doubt,' she answered ;
but now tell me how my father bore the
news of my marriage.'

I told her of the morning which Lord
Springfield and I had spent at Brighton,
and she only interrupted me once to
exclaim : ' That is just like papa, he is
such a true gentleman.' Then in a much
harder voice she inquired about her mother,
and when I related to her how Lady
Springfield had abused me for having
decoyed her, Isabel, away, she gave a toss

of the head and ejaculated : ' I do believe
mamma is, without meaning it, my worst
enemy. You cannot conceive what I have
had to endure from her, nor imagine to
what degradation she would have brought
me had I not resolved to leave her and act
for myself.'

Once or twice during our conversation
there were steps in the passage, and Isabel
always turned eagerly towards the door,
as though she expected her husband and
would have flown at once to give him a
fond greeting. Observing this, and noticing
that her thoughts flitted at random, I
began to think that she was trying to avoid
explanations on the point which most
interested me. But presently two waiters
appeared to lay the cloth for supper, and
this drove us both into a corner near the
white enamelled stove (there are no open

fire-places in vienna hotels). Here she
collected herself, and said laughing in an
undertone, as she stroked the lukewarm
sides of the stove and looked at me over
her shoulder —

You know we are travelling like regular
vagabonds. We have not a passport
between us. King Franz has not the
faintest notion as to where Frederick is.
Now what would be your advice about
our next move ? '

My advice would be to do what you
think best,' I answered, adapting my tone
to hers. * I am sure you must have thought
out the subject.'

Indeed I have,' she replied quietly.
There are two courses open to us. My
husband has written a letter to King
Franz which is in the drawer of the table
over there. In that letter he announces

his marriage, and says he will take the
political consequences. But I don't want
him to send that letter. Why should he ?
King Franz might die tomorrow, and then
Frederick, becoming King, would have no
great trouble in making the Kronheim
Parliament pass a law which would place
me on the throne.'

*You would make a delicious Queen,'
I said, bowing, for I was not going to argue
against her.

I daresay I should do as well as most
queens,' she answered gaily ; ' but admitting
that, you must see our policy is to live
quietly as mice. We must travel about,
make no acquaintances, and do nothing to
attract attention; two or three times a
year the Prince must return to Kronheim
just to show himself for a few days, and
then he must disappear as he came. If

anybody guessed the truth, Prince Wolfgang
and Princess Ursula would of course
set their detectives spying upon us, and
then we should have to adopt other
tactics.'

There was nothing to say, and I gave a
nod of acquiescence. But after the feminine
wont Isabel chose to interpret this as
unreserved concurrence, so a few minutes
later, when the Prince returned and we all
three sat down to supper, she exclaimed
joyously —

Captain Meredith is entirely of my
opinion. He advises that we should
travel and not forward your letter.'

I am glad of that,' said the Prince,
cracking the claw of a lobster ; but as there
was a waiter in the room pouring out wine,
he made no further observation for the
moment.

We have not given up the Bulgarian
idea,' whispered Isabel to me. ' It may
work in very well with our plans.'

Especially if the Bulgarians elect me
to rule over them,' laughed the Prince, the
waiter having then left the room.

We must see what the Bulgarians are
like before you accept their crown,' said
Isabel. ' We should have no further need
for secrecy if you decided to become a
sovereign at once instead of waiting for a
throne.'

That is quite true, dear child,' replied
the Prince mildly, as he finished his
lobster.

I was surprised at his demeanour. He,
erewhile so impetuous, talkative, and
domineering, seemed to have settled down
into a bourgeois sort of contentment,
placidly relishing the change from Court

pomp and intrigues to the decorousness
of married life. He hardly offered an
opinion. Eating his supper with appetite,
he now and then threw a little joke into
the conversation ; but he appeared to be
steadily putting away from him all troublesome
thoughts, and to have abdicated all
faculties of reflection and resolution Into
his wife's hands.

This really meant Into mine. My
astonishment increased as I perceived that
these two young people had put out to
sea in an open boat without any distinct
thought as to where they were going, but
trusting only that some good wind might
carry them into port. The Prince, who
had never been thrown on his own resources
in this way, had made no provision
for the material wants of his journey. He
had no passport, no letters of credit, and

was running short of money. He said
that I had better draw a few thousand
marks from * some bank or other next
day ' ; but he left me to contrive how this
might be done. I found in fact that I
should have to give advice about everything,
and make all the arrangements for
travelling and expenditure, while the bridal
couple disported themselves.

It was high time that the Prince got
somebody to look after his affairs, for, as
Isabel remarked with amusement, he had
been paying away napoleons to cabman and
box-openers without ever imagining that
he was entitled to change. At this rate it
was not likely that he could preserve his
incognito long.

My own observations of Prince frederick's
doings during the next few days
quite confirmed this impression. In London

he was constantly ordering expensive
things in shops ; but there he was
known, and had his cheque-book, which
remained in my keeping. When a tradesman
sent in a bill I filled up a cheque
which he signed, and there was an end
of the matter. But in Vienna this
system — though practised with comparative
moderation — very quickly exhausted
the Prince's supply of cash. An
absurd thing happened on the day after
my arrival, for his Highness, going out fora
morning stroll by himself, saw a bracelet
which he thought would please Isabel, and
ordered it to be sent to his hotel. The
bill was for a thousand florins, and it was
all we could do with our joint purses to
make up the amount. We all had an
hour's merriment over this ; but the very
same afternoon what must my lord do, but

buy a fine oil - painting from a picture
dealer in the Graben. This time we
could not pay, and we could not decently
ask the landlord to pay. The messenger
refused to leave the picture without money,
and our disturbed looks excited his suspicions,
so that he went out grumbling,
and had a talk with the hotel porter about
us.

Meanwhile I had telegraphed to my
bankers in London to send me a credit by
wire, but all the money I had in the world
would not have covered a month of the
Prince's expenditure. He had no notion
of small economies, because he did not
know the value of things. He could not
have told you what a hat or a pair of
gloves cost. If a thing struck his fancy
he ordered it without inquiring the price.
When a beggar asked alms of him he

gave the first coin that came to his hand,
generally a gold one. He was drolly
helpless, too, in such emergencies as ordering
a dinner in a restaurant, and, being
particular about his wines, he would, with
the most extravagant unconcern, send
away two or three bottles of the choicest
brands before he found a glassful to his
taste. One day when he had been doing
this without noticing some pathetic looks
which Isabel threw him across the table, a
waiter brought him by mistake a decanter
of the roughest Voslatier at about half a
florin the bottle. ' Ah ! this is something
like wine,' exclaimed the Prince naively.
Don't you find the real flavour of grape in
this ? ' There was indeed enough flavour
to sting the palate for an afternoon.

Isabel was the first to see that we must
resolve ourselves into a serious committee

of ways and means. ' It's evident we
must have money,' admitted the Prince
with a doleful air. ' There must be a lot of
papers, too, awaiting my signature, for I
have to sign my accounts once or twice a
year. I see nothing for it but your going
to old Grinzener at Sabelburg and asking
him to put all my affairs in order and get
me unlimited letters of credit.'

But I have been served with an order
of expulsion from the kingdom of Kron-
hei.'

I must procure you a safe conduct
then,' he said, as if this were the simplest
thing in the world, though in the same
breath he requested me to think how the
business could be managed.

You had better take train for a town
beyond the Austrian frontier and post some
letters from the Prince,' suggested Isabel.

That's it ; she's always right,' he exclaimed,
delighted. ' I will write a letter
to the King and one to Grinzener, and you
shall carry them to Passa ; but mind you
are not away long.'

If Dr. Grinzener is written to, perhaps
it will not be necessary that I should go to
Sabelburg,' I remarked.

No, perhaps not,' answered the Prince
absently, and he sat down at once to write.
But the next moment he dashed down his
pen, and said with vexation : ' It won't do.
Grinzener is such a prudent fellow that he
will never put much to paper, and where
should he send his letter to me ? He has
become an important person too since his
election to our Reichsrath. He heads a
party, and is Hochort's rival, so I shouldn't
wonder if his correspondence were watched.
Look here, Meredith, you won't mind

taking a risk? I'll give you a safe conduct.
Nobody dare touch you if you
are carrying an order from me ; but you
might manage everything without being
detected. Go as quietly as possible to
Sabelburg, see Grinzener, and return.'

'It shall be as you please,' I said; for,
although I did mind the risk very much,
I could not hesitate to help the Prince out
of his difficulty.

Isabel was pleased at my alacrity in
obeying, but put in a word for me. ' Is
it so very necessary that Dr. Grinzener
should be seen ? If so, why should not
you and I go privately to Kronheim ? I
will take the risk.'

No, that would never do,' replied the

Prince. * It was only by a miracle that I

got from Kronheim to London and from

London over here without being watched ;
VOL. Ill a8

and if we travelled together, dear child,
we should be tracked by detectives until
all our secrets were discovered. Unfortunately
it is necessary that Grinzener
should be spoken to. I had never thought
of all these money difficulties. A week's
writing would not settle the business that
could be transacted in an hour's time.'

'Well then, suppose yo7i go,' said Isabel
with an effort.

And leave you, my darling ? Oh no ! '

You would not be away more than a
couple of days, and nobody would runaway
with me in that time,' she said, still
with forced gaiety.

But the Prince shook his head. For a
moment he hesitated, then the hue of his
face changed and he became deadly white.
No, no,' he muttered, waving his hand
before his eves, as if to shut out a vision.

I have a presentiment against leaving
you, Belle. No, not for a day.'

You are not ill, dear ? ' she ejaculated,
moving anxiously to his side.

I feel the room is cold,' he faltered,
and gave a shiver. ' It's not pleasant, you
know, to be reminded that one has enemies
who would dog my steps to death if they
could. Remember poor Tristan ! I have
been living here in a fool's paradise, but this
must last, Belle. I have never been happy
until now. Anything for a continuance of
it. I won't shorten this bliss by an hour.'

She had put an arm round his shoulder,
and he pressed her hand tightly as he said
this, after which he turned to me calmly,
and said in his old way —

Make ready, Meredith, and start for
Sabelburg by yourself

I HAD forgotten that there existed a means
of communication between Dr. Grinzener
and me through the Kladderadatch. On
remembering this, and telling the Prince
how our cryptogram worked, it struck us
all that we had better send Grinzener a
message asking him to meet me in some
frontier town of Kronheim. The Prince
was only too pleased to see my departure
adjourned, for it evidently made him
nervous to be left without a factotum.
After having discarded all unpleasant
musings for days, it was beginning to

Strike him that a Crown Prince has duties
and cannot wander about for months without
giving the sovereign of his country
some news of his whereabouts. But while
he perceived this dimly, his inclination
to self-indulgence urged him to consider
only how he might avoid doing his duty,
by favour of Grinzener's advice and
mine.

When we had sent a waiter to buy a copy
of the K ladder adatc/i, the Prince, Isabel,
and I sat down to concoct a message, and
it was amusing to see with what boyish
eagerness he set to scoring his dots on the
pages. He soon spoiled our copy of the
comic paper by over haste, and we had to
send out for another. At last I spelt out
the long message which we had drafted,
and which ended with the request that if
Grinzener had anything urgent to com

munlcate he should telegraph to Joseph
Trotman.

Clever fellow that Grinzener,' observed
the Prince as I folded up the paper for the
post. ' Fancy his having thought of this !
I suppose we shall get an answer in three
days.'

'Yes, but we must be patient, dear,'
interposed Isabel, who had been trying to
soothe his feverishness. She must have
felt anxious at the number of words which
he had made me cram into his despatch,
for doubtless it had never occurred to her
before that his position as a Crown Prince,
a general, a great landlord, and a president
of innumerable artistic and scientific institutions
and charities, made enormous
demands upon his time. ' You appear to
have almost as much work to do as the
King himself,' she continued cheerfully.

'Yes,' he answered in a moody tone;
but I couldn't discharge it if I were ill, so
we must give out that I am travelling for
my health. Heaven knows I have had
worries enough to make me almost insane.
Let us say no more about it till Grinzener's
answer comes, but go about and enjoy
Vienna.'

Vienna passes for being one of the
gayest of capitals. It is in truth one of
the decaying cities. Berlin has dethroned
it from the position it once held as the
leading German city. Budapest, restored
as the capital of the semi-independent
Hungarian kingdom, has withdrawn from
it the hospitable and free-handed Magyar
nobility. Prague and Cracow, intent upon
Home Rule schemes, have entered into
competition with it as social centres for the
Bohemian and Polish aristocracies respectively.

Austria Hungary is not rich
enough to maintain four capitals, and
Vienna has been wasted by the draining
away of its resources into nationalist
channels.

It has a Ring covered with palatial
public buildings, but with no traffic except
that of grammars. It has miles of cold
looking streets with tall white houses, but
no trade or life in them. The Danube is
four miles away from it, and has never been
embanked so as to make its waterway of
any use for metropolitan commerce and
manufacturing. All the movement of the
capital is concentrated within a few streets
near the Imperial Palace, and the business
of the busiest man never takes him beyond
the radius of an English mile. This gives
to Vienna the tone of a provincial town.
A morning's stroll through the principal

Streets and an afternoon's drive to the
Prater will enable a man to meet all
his acquaintances. Everybody knows
what everybody else says and does. A
resident of any standing is known byname
to the porters in all the chief hotels,
to the waiters in restaurants, and to the
very cabman.

The city has charming environs, and
Vienna's reputation for gaiety comes from
this, that in summer these environs and the
Prater and the public gardens are thronged
with good-natured, lazy people, who can
sit out-of-doors enjoying beer and coffee
at a small price and excellent music for
nothing. There is certainly no capital
where the multitudes are so well catered
for in the way of cheap refreshments and
bands of music. But the detestable climate,
with its boisterous winds, dust, sharp colds

and showers, makes every open space inside
the town and out a wilderness during
two-thirds of the year. In winter, early
spring, or late autumn, there is no chance of
excursions to the Kahlenberg or the Brill.
One's only resource is to pace about the
Karnthner Strasse, Graben or Kohlmarkt,
and in the evening to visit the Opera or
the Court Theatre. The two or three
other theatres are nothing to speak of. At
ten o'clock the town becomes silent and
dark, as though a curfew had sounded.
The Opera is over, the houses are shut up,
and anybody returning home after that
hour must pay twopence to the door porter
for letting him in. Only a few of the
hotels profess to serve supper after ten
o'clock. In the old-fashioned houses a
demand for food after that hour will send
a drowsy waiter hurrying with surprise to

turn up the gas, and while the guest eats
alone in a deserted room three waiters will
stare at him and wonder how long he will
take over his meal.

As always happens with people visiting
Vienna for the first time, the Prince, Isabel,
and I tried to persuade ourselves that our
sentiments as to the bleak dulness of the
place were erroneous. We tried to call it
delightful. We endeavoured to discover
signs of rollicking jollity everywhere about,
and we exclaimed with admiration at the
number of concerts and public halls advertised
on the hoardings. We went the
round of the picture galleries — overrated
like much else in Vienna — we heard some
fine music in the churches, and wondered
at the long trough-like spittoons with which
every pew is adorned. We dined one day
in an underground restaurant (the Stefan's

Keller), quaintly wainscoted and decorated
with trophies of arms and bacchanalian
inscriptions, and we made the bravest
pretence of feeling that we were festive
and not suffocating with the heat and the
fog of tobacco. But somehow after a few
days our programme of amusements always
reduced itself to the Graben in the morning,
the Graben in the afternoon, and the
Opera in the evening.

Withal we were perfectly deafened by
the noise of the fiacres or two-horsed cabs.
A snobbish fashion of the city requires
that people having any social pretensions
shall take a two-horse vehicle even when
they have only to ride a couple of hundred
yards, and an equally senseless custom
makes every cabman drive as if his fare
were trying to catch a train. The red-faced
fellow sits with his legs apart, his elbows

rounded, a rein in each hand (pity he has
not a third hand for the whip), and dashes
over the large ill-joined paving stones
with a din which makes every nerve in a
foreigner s body tingle. It is astounding,
maddening ; it stops all conversation, and
it is perhaps for this reason that the easy-tempered
Viennese, who have not much to
say at any time, rather like it. They
would only murmur if the concussion shook
the cigars out of their mouths.

Prince Frederick had visited Vienna
before, but as the guest of the Court, and
the magnificence of the imperial pageantries
(in this respect Vienna is hardly to be
matched) had left a lively impression on
him. He kept telling us what state the
Emperor and the Archdukes kept, and he
marvelled much at the contrast between
the splendour of the Court and the modest

Style in which the aristocracy and the
bankers seemed to live. Being fond of
horses, he always had an eye for smart
carriages, and used to exclaim : ' Why, the
only decent equipages you see here are
those of the Court.'

The faultless turn-out of a Batthyany, a
Metternich, or a Rothschild is indeed such
a rarity in Vienna that the few good
carriages hardly count in the grand total
of shabby landaus, ill-appointed broughams,
and racket rickety cabs.

But Prince Frederick having been to
Court was known there, and his face was
remembered by divers officials whose
business it is to have retentive memories.
Walking about as he did every day he
presumed rather too much on the removal
of his beard to protect him from recognition.
One afternoon, as we were strolling

on the Ring, I saw that a General stared
hard at him. This General must have followed
us home, for as we entered the archway
of the Archduke Charles Hotel he
passed us, then abruptly turned and saluted
the Prince most deferentially with his hand
to his cap.

How do you do. Count ?' said the
Prince, forgetting himself, and holding out
his hand.

It was all up then. The irrepressible
porter who loafs about with an overcoat
down to his heels overheard the words
'Royal Highness,' with which the Prince
was addressed, and stood agape. Isabel
and I, who had drawn aside, walked on into
the courtyard, and she looked fluttered.
This is an unfortunate meeting,' she
whispered, but when the Prince had parted
from the General after a few minutes'

chat he came up to us laughing, and
said —

It's all right ; I have told him that I
am travelling incognito.'

Who is he ? ' asked Isabel.

One of the Emperor's aides-de-camp.'

He may feel bound to tell the Emperor
then.'

I wonder whether he will,' answered
the Prince, but without appearing to care
very" much. It was only when we reached
the sitting-room that he laughed again,
remarking: ' If our secret is out we must
slip away to some other Austrian town or
to Budapest. We are not tied to Vienna.'

I was not quite certain that the porter
had overheard, but to make quite sure I
ran downstairs, and found that worthy was
already in animated colloquy with the landlord.
The latter bowing low as soon as I

appeared, I beckoned to him and said :
Count von Griinsee is the title which
Prince Frederick of Kronheim assumes
when he travels but does not want to be
disturbed by visitors. We rely that you
will say nothing in any quarter which may
cause his Royal Highness's privacy to be
intruded upon.'

Certainly, gracious sir,' responded the
landlord, bending double. * I trust their
Royal Highnesses have been satisfied.'

Entirely ; and it only depends upon
you to retain them a few days longer.'

I ought then to have handed the portera

ten-florin note, with promise of a

subsequent donation if our secret were

well kept till our departure. Having

neglected this formality, I left the man

with a piece of news which he had a direct

profit in selling to some of those news-vol.
Ill 49

paper reporters who prowl about hotels (In
Vienna a race as active as flies). He
made good use of his time, for next morning
three Viennese journals published that
Prince Frederick of Kronheim was staying
at the Hotel Archduke Charles, under the
name of Count von Griinsee.

Long before the notice had reached my
eyes the Archdukes, who are early risers,
had sent their equerries to the hotel to ask
whether and when the Prince would receive
visits. I was called out of bed to receive
the first of these gentlemen, and the answer
I gave him and the others who followed
was that the Prince begged to be excused
from receiving or paying visits. Upon this
each of the equerries replied with a bow :
Then his Imperial Highness will have
the pleasure of paying Prince Frederick a
strictly private call.'

And call they did — seven of them within
the space of three hours. The most
punctiliously courteous gentlemen in
Europe, they were not to be put off from
asking the Prince personally whether they
could do anything for him during his stay
in the Austrian capital. But they marked
the private nature of their visits by coming
to the hotel on foot and some of them
were unattended. The Prince of course
received them all, and when the last of
them was gone he started off to pay his
round of return visits.

These calls were very trying to Isabel,
who had to remain in a room apart while
the Prince received. But this led to
another result, for all the servants in the
hotel, being now aware of the Prince's
rank, and knowing also that Isabel had
not been presented to any of the Archdukes,

began to discuss her relations with
the Prince, thereby moving our chivalrous
Joe Trotman to wrath and unreserved
communications.

There Is a story of a gentleman who,
travelling on his honeymoon tour and noticing
that he was an object of curiosity to
hotel servants, expostulated with his valet
for telling everybody that his master and
mistress were a newly-married couple.
Indeed I've done nothing of the sort, sir,'
protested the man. * The people were
saying that you looked like a bride and
bridegroom, but I assured them that you
weren't married, and were only travelling
together to try each other a little bit before
you made up your minds about marrying.'

Joe Trotman did just the contrary to
this, for he gave everybody the most complete
details about Isabel's name and

parentage, and the circumstances of her
double marriage at Brighton. ' I couldn't
help it, sir,' he said, when he came and told
me what he had done. ' It wasn't to be
allowed that all those waiters should make
free with my lady's name.'

No, of course not,' I answered, but I
foresaw that all these items would be in
print soon, and naturally enough they
figured in the Vienna papers of the following
day.

Vienna became too hot for us. Our hotel
stood in a narrow street, and faced another
old-fashioned hotel with an archway and a
courtyard. Under this archway groups of
idlers hung about all day to see the Prince
and his wife come out. The negro is
not more thriftless of his time than the
Viennese. You may see any afternoon a
procession of people stand outside the
gallery doors of the Court Theatre waiting
for a performance which is to begin at
seven. Rain or snow will not disperse
them. There they stick, and oysters

sunning themselves on a rock are not
more contented.

Then we had Httle hook-nosed reporters,
who skulked up to our very rooms, opened
our doors as though by accident, and
stammered apologies, but took a good
look round before they departed. One
of these had the impudence to execute an
instantaneous photograph of the Prince
and Isabel. He carried a black box which
he pretended to open as though he had
brought a parcel, but, having adjusted his
lens, let his slide fall and decamped. The
trick was done, and two vile woodcuts ina
local illustrated journal were the fruits of
his industry.

I say nothing of beggars. The
Viennese beggar in high life has always a
coronet on his card and new gloves on his
hands. He pretends to have been an

officer who has just received an appointment
at Trieste and wants twenty florins
to pay his railway fare. Or he is a
journalist who brings the proofs of some
infamous libel for correction, and says
that he thinks he can just manage to stop
the publication of the article if he receives
an indemnity. Besides visitors of this
description, we had begging letters by
every post as in London.

The Prince would not have put up with
this life for a day had it not been that we
were awaiting an answer from Dr. .
But when live days passed without
bringing in the expected reply he lost
patience.

'We must leave this place,' he said;
'our whereabouts and our marriage are well
known in Kronheim by this time, and I
am sure to get a letter from Court before

long. But I am in no mood at present
for returning to a life of annoyances. Let
us start off quietly for Hungary and leave
Joe here to forward any letters that
come.'

I had strong doubts as to the propriety
of this course, and spoke seriously on the
subject with Isabel. ' Now that your
marriage is known to King Franz, would
it not be better that you should at once
face all possible disagreeable and get
your position regulated ? You must not
appear to be running away.'

Never mind me,' she answered, with a
shake of the head. ' Consider the Prince's
excited condition. I am sure he wants
rest. After a time he will become more
collected, and will see what had best be
done.'

But it was his own wish some days

ago to write straightforwardly to the
King.'

To write — yes ; but not to take any
other step for the present.'

My only fear is that you may increase
your difficulties by not boldly grappling
with them now.'

Even if this be so, do as the Prince
wishes,' pleaded Isabel, with a beseeching
glance. ' Myself I will not thwart him in
any way.'

Not thwart him,' I insisted rather
obstinately ; * but we might endeavour to
coax him into our way of thinking.'

'Your way of thinking is not mine,
though,' she replied. ' King Franz cannot
dissolve our marriage, nor can he
prevent Frederick from succeeding him.
So far as I am concerned, I should be
quite content never to set foot in Kron-

hei until my husband becomes King.
Indeed, if I take my own interests into
account, it would be far better that we
should remain away for a time. While weare
away nothing can be done against us.
But if we returned we might be so teased,
that from sheer weariness we should sign
away our rights. Remember, I neither
want my husband to resign his own, nor
do I wish to take up my position as a
morganatic wife with a title of Countess.
I had rather let events work for me, as I
am sure they will.'

Here a little piece of feminine vanity
came into play, for catching sight of the illustrated
paper which contained the grievous
woodcut of herself, Isabel exclaimed —

Dear me ! since the Kronheimers
must accustom themselves to the idea
that I am Prince Frederick's wife, I hope

they will get some better portrait of me
than that.'

Suppose I send a good cabinet photograph
of you to the Sabelburg Illustrated?'
I suggested in fun.

I wish you would,' she replied, half
mirthful, half serious. ' And since our
little kitten of a secret is now well out of
the bag, you might post one to the London
Graphic. I suppose I shall become a
heroine of romance now, so it is as well
the world should know that Prince frederick
hasn't married a perfect fright.'

We were interrupted by a diminutive
big-whiskered tailor, who came in to try
on a costume which Isabel had ordered on
arriving in Vienna. Tailor-made ladies'
dresses are one of the specialities of
Vienna, and this tailor had told Isabel
in his artless Austrian way that she was

one of the only foreigners he had ever
seen with a fetch (smart) Viennese figure.
But now that he had read in the papers
that he had been working for the wife of a
Crown Prince, the little man was quite
beside himself with excitement ; and when
Isabel had rung for her maid to carry her
dress to her room, he unfolded a piece of
vellum with gilt edges and entreated E2t7'e
KoniglicJie Hoheit Dttrchlatichtiste Pratt
to put her signature to a statement that he
was appointed 'Tailor to her Royal Highness
the Crown Princess of Kronheim.'
The Prince came in while he was proffering
his supplication, and observing Isabel's
confusion, told her to sign. She blushed
very prettily, but without more ado signed
Isabel'

By and by when the little tailor had
gone — leaving the costume, which fitted

without a crease — we set to work on our
plan for absconding from Vienna, and the
Prince entered upon this escapade with
the jubilation he felt in all things with
mystery in them. The thing was not
easy, but we settled it in this way. At
seven o'clock in the morning: of the next
day the Prince and Isabel walked out of
the hotel together. The street loungers
were not at their post of observation at
this early hour, and it so chanced that
nobody saw them go out. After a ramble
through some crooked streets, and having
made sure that they were not being followed,
they took a cab, drove to the
Hungarian railway station, and started
for Pressburg. A few hours later I paid
the hotel bill (a nice one it was), and drove
to the Western railway station, as if I
were going to Kronheim or Paris. Leaving

the luggage in the cloak - room, I
returned to town, killed time till three
o'clock, then sent a commissionaire in a
fiacre to fetch the luggage from the
Western to the Hungarian station. Here
Eliza, the maid, joined me, and we entered
the four o'clock express to Budapest. The
train stopped at Pressburg, the Count and
Countess were waiting on the platform, and
we finished the journey together, reaching
the Hungarian capital at ten o'clock. At
the hotel we gave the names of Count and
Countess Hochfeld and Mr. Ferdinand.

Joe Trotman remained in Vienna, and
of course said nothing to disabuse the
hotel people of the notion that we had
travelled westwards. The papers accordingly
announced that Prince Frederick had
started for Kronheim, and this being telegraphed
in every direction by the news

agencies, we were quite unsuspected at
Budapest, and relapsed once more into the
bliss of being incognita.

Budapest is all that Vienna might be
and is not. The double names of Buda
and Pesth call up to the mind of the
student wild episodes in history, ferocious
conflicts with Turks and tumultuous gatherings
of magnates, legislating on horseback
in the Plain of Rakish. The
memories of later times are of Kossuth's
revolt and Hanau's butcheries. When
the white-coated Austrians and the Cossacks
clubbed their forces to put down
Hungarian liberties, all Europe rang with
shouts of sympathy for the Magyars, and
the hanging of thirteen Hungarian generals
by the Russian Paskewitch's orders at
Arad was universally execrated as a foul
deed. But so little have events in Hungary

been watched since that time that,
beyond a vague idea that ' the Hungarians
got home rule some years ago the tourist
who visits Budapest knows nothing, and
has only the faintest conception of what he
is going to see.

He is prepared for a mediaeval city with
dark streets and grim towers, and a population
wearing national costume, the women
in flying jackets with furred trimmings, the
men in knee boots and frogged coats. He
knows that there is a railway to Budapest,
but he has his misgivings about the hotels
and postal arrangements. He 'supposes,'^
that he shall be able to send off a telegram.
In any case he is convinced that the
Hungarians still look upon Vienna as their

1 In 1885 a- party of very eminent Frenchmen, with
Count Ferdinand de Lesseps at their head, made a tour of
Hungary, and one of them shyly asked whether he could
send a telegram from Hungary to Paris.

VOL. Ill 50

capital, and that they are an uncouth provincial
folk, troublesome to govern, but loyal in
the main to the superior people in the
Kaiserstadt. And he is persuaded that he
has seen the best of what Austria Hungary
has to show when he left this Kaiserstadt
behind him.

Consequently the first view of Budapest
which a tourist gets in the morning from a
window overlooking the Danube is one
that astonishes him. Budapest is as
modern as Paris, as busy as Manchester ;
it has natural beauties which make it the
rival of Edinburgh and Athens, and it is
just now bursting into life as the great
Danubian metropolis of the future.

The two cities of Buda and Pesth,
divided by the Danube, are linked by
a magnificent English-built suspension
bridge. Buda is set on a cluster of hills,

and shows tiers upon tiers of white houses
with green shutters. The highest hill is
crowned by the Royal palace or castle,
which is painted a pale yellow, and from
which hanging gardens and terraces
descend to the river quay. In summer,
when the trees are in leaf, and mantles of
purple clematis cover the terrace walls,
the view is charming. In winter, when
draperies of snow cloak the house-tops
and the hillsides, it is calm and grand.
Guarding the whole of the ancient city
from the summit of a neighbouring cliff,
stands the low-browed, frowning fortress of
the Blocksberg.

In Pesth, which is built upon a level,
there are stately squares studded with the
statues of Hungarian patriots, and bordered
by monumental public buildings, streets
full of brilliant shops and broad boulevards

teeming with traffic. No capital in Europe
has a finer boulevard than the Andrassy
Utcza, which runs for two miles from the
heart of the city to the town park ; and
the Opera on this thoroughfare might betaken
as a model for theatrical architects
all the world over. Then all around
bubble those signs of life and energy which
one misses in Vienna.

There is no stagnation, but movement
everywhere with liberty. Hungary has a
free press and a genuine Parliament. Its
people are not afraid to speak, its aristocracy
and officials do not drop their voices
and close their ears at the word 'politics,'
but blurt out what they think, and care not
who hears them. The national costume is
no longer much seen. Worn as a political
protest from 1847 to 1867 by every man,
woman, and child, the nobility and gentry

only Sport it now on gala occasions. But
it is seen on door porters and other liveried
servants. The Hungarian footman who
sits on the box of the carriage is dressed
as a Hussar, and the postilions of hearses
wear the same dress in black. The rough
work of the city — its scavengers, market
ordering, etc. — seems all to be done by
Slovaks clad in baggy white breeches like
petticoats.

We took an immediate liking for Budapest,
as who does not ? and we had a
couple of days' most agreeable rambling
through the old town and the new. Curious
it was at Buda to stand on the ramparts of
the fortress which Abdurrahman Abdi
Pasha in 1666 defended with his life, when
the Hungarians under Count John Ester-hazy
and the Austrians under the Duke
of Lorraine captured the citadel from the

Turks and drove back the outposts of
Mussulman domination in Europe to Belgrade.


What would Budapest be now, and
what would Central Europe be, if the
Turks had been the victors in that desperate
three days' siege ? Curious too to
look out over the Plain of Rakish and to
think of the thousands of Magyar horsemen
assembling in open air Parliament
and voting their laws with drawn swords.
Obstructive must have found an expert
wrist of more use to them than a loud
tongue in those days. One can imagine
the skirmishing that went on upon the outskirts
of the plain when sabres clanked
and refractory members rolled out of their
saddles, succumbing to the ' lobby arguments
' of the period.

In the evenings we supped in the

public dining-room of one of the two leading
hotels In order to listen to the string
bands which perform nightly. When these
bands are really, good, their music is worth
travelling to Hungary to hear. The
fiddlers are for the most part swarthy
little fellows with sparkling eyes and big
moustaches, who play without any scores,
but from ear. Practice as much as they
may together, their performance of operatic
airs can never equal that of a well-trained
orchestra led by Edward Strauss, and this
makes the Viennese severe upon these
fiddlers ; but when the men execute their
dreamy and half savage national airs, then
their skill flashes out and their audience is
enthralled.

The conductor stands out a little in
front of his men with his back to them
and improvises a reverie in which measures

of penetrating sweetness blend strangely
with kneeling notes. When he wants his
men to join in he turns, his foot stamps,
he nods to right and left, and his fingers
wriggle over the fiddle strings as if they
were hot wires. Gradually the playing
brings up all the poetry of the vast
Hungarian Puztas (plains) before the
listener. On those boundless flats of
black earth and spare grass the Czikos
pasture their herds of five hundred horses ;
the shepherds, with not a tree to shade
them, huddle under an awning of sackcloth
and watch a flock of ten thousand
sheep, while the pig drovers, chasing their
gaunt grunting swine from place to place,
have a trouble to keep these creatures
from scattering. Men and animals, however,
form only small patches of living
things in the great expanse, and the

traveller who rides by feels he is in a
wilderness.

If the music be good it calls up the
infinite desolation of the Puztas when the
autumn mists rise or when the landscape
is deluged with rain ; or again its wild
glory under a scarlet sunset when the
Czikos challenge each other to feats of
bareback riding, and the thousands of
sheep bleat as they return slowly to their
sheds. Then the scene changes to evening
in the village wine-shop, when the
day's work is done, and the Czikos, who
are the aristocracy of the plain, dance the
Carta with the boldest country - girls.
No finnikin jig this Carta, but a dance in
which the stamping of boots on the floor
makes the tavern boards creak, while with
hands and arms interlaced the partners
spin round in a barbarous whirl and pant

till their cheeks are aglow. Once more
then the scene changes to a night storm,
which disperses the dancers to their
hovels. Now comes the moment when
the conductor of the band demeans himself
like one possessed. His bow whistles
as he cuts the air with it and slashes it
upon the bridge of his fiddle. His arms
and legs are in contortions. His mouth
emits hoarse gutturals of command, and his
men, all seized with the same frenzy as
himself, are fiddling away with desperation.


Hungarians who have dined well get
so transported by this minstrelsy that they
fling a hundred-florin note into the saucer
of the man who comes round to collect
after each performance. Strangers at first
often find the music irritating. They cannot
talk through it. It interferes with

their orders to the waiters. Sometimes
the finale suspends all attendance in the
room, and the waiters stand together
amazed to stupidity while the infernal din
of concluding measures — imitating perhaps
the raging of a gale and the falling of a
thunderbolt — has its climax in a frantic
round of applause from the whole audience.


Isabel had such a fine taste for music,
and such an understanding of it in all its
expressions, that she was captivated from
the first by the Hungarian players. The
Prince, after saying with a laugh that it
required at least three glasses of Car-howitzer
to nerve a man for such a noise
as that, ended by liking the performance
because it allowed him to sit back silent
for twenty minutes at a time ; and while
he smoked his cigar he could fancy that all

the plains of Hungary lay between him
and human cares.

It was on our second evening at Budapest,
and we had been revelling in nearly
three hours' music at our own hotel, when
a waiter brought me a telegram. It was
from Joe Trotman, and repeated a message
which had been addressed to me at
Vienna by Dr. Grinzener —

Order against you has been cancelled, so please
come Sabelburg immediately on business most important
to Prince. Opinion in high quarters which I
share is that Prince himself had better stay away for
present. Grinzener.

'Well, nothing could be better,' exclaimed
the Prince with elation, as he
handed the message to Isabel after reading
it. ' You will start tomorrow morning
early. Let us come upstairs now, and I
will give you your instructions.'

What the Prince had to say chiefly
concerned settlements in favour of his
wife, and, as already stated, the procuring
of unlimited letters of credit for himself.
But he had several times talked to me on
these matters, and had little to add. He
was loth to part with me, however, and
his spirits sank as he spoke about being
left alone. He complained too of having
no valet now that Joe was in Vienna. He
had never been in such a position before,
and was self-compassionate about having
to forage for his linen in boxes. I had
made up my mind that I would take Joe
to Kronheim with me, as I might want a
safe messenger (in which the Prince
agreed) ; but I promised to arrange with
the landlord that a good body-servant
should be procured for the Prince on the
morrow. It must be mentioned that the

Prince had sent back his own valet, chasseur,
and groom from London to Sabelburg
on suspicion that they were spies. He
would not hear of my bringing any member
of his owen household from Kronheim,
and one of the orders he gave me was to
dismiss all his Greek and Montenegrin
servants at Grtinsee with three months'
wages.

A Hungarian valet who talks German
will do very well for me,' he said; 'but I
can't hope to find any man in this country
to take your duties. I shall count the
hours until you return. Good-bye, but I
shall see you tomorrow before you start.'
He called Isabel, who had retired to her
room during our conference, to say goodnight
to me.

'A safe and pleasant journey to you,'
she said, with a kind look in her fine eyes.

and the grasp of her hand intimated eloquently
enough that she relied on me to
befriend her husband and her to the best
of my power.

I was going from the Prince's apartments
to mine when a small man who was
pacing noiselessly in the passage hurried
and confronted me. It was M. Oiloff, the
Bulgarian.

Hush ! ' he said. ' I know Prince
Frederick is here. I was dining downstairs
and recognised him. Could I speak
to him ? '

I daresay he will receive you,' I
answered, disconcerted ; ' but I must ask
him, and you must recollect that he does
not want his presence here to be known.'

I guessed that ; but I read in the
papers that the Prince had come to Vienna,
and I started from Sofia on purpose to see

him. What made me stop here was
another telegram in one of the papers
which stated that the Prince had gone to
Kronheim. My falling in with you was
therefore quite accidental, and perhaps
providential. If the Prince means to do
anything for Bulgaria now is the time.'

There was no escaping our patriotic
friend, so I returned without more parley
to the Prince's sitting-room and told him
what had happened. Isabel clasped her
hands, but the Prince astonished me by
his alacrity in exclaiming : ' Oiloff ? why,
he will be a godsend now you are going ;
he is the best company possible. By all
means show him in.'

So M. Oiloff was introduced, and-the
Prince giving him a friendly clap on the
shoulder presented him to Isabel, saying,
'The Princess, my wife.'

I had no suspicion till then that M.
Oiloff had made such headway in the
Prince's good opinion, and this unexpected
encounter set me musing as I went off to
my room, leaving the Bulgarian in a tete-tete
with my whimsical master.

VOL III 51

From Budapest to Sabelburg was a fifteen
hours' journey. Joe, apprised by telegram,
was waiting for me at the Vienna
station, and we reached King Franz's
capital together without any adventure.

It was eleven o'clock in the evening,
but I drove at once to Dr. Grinzener's
house, or rather to the house in which he
rented a flat, and left Joe with the cab
outside whilst I went in. Dr. Grinzener
was at home and was receiving company,
for the small vestibule of his apartment
was encumbered with hats and overcoats.

I was shown into a small study, and
sounds of animated conversation reached
me from the adjoining room, with the
smoke of much strong tobacco, which
percolated through the keyhole and
under the door. Abruptly the talking
ceased, and next minute Dr. 
walked in sucking at the remnant
of a cigar through an amber mouthpiece.


Externally he was the same man as
ever — plump, jolly, with his shirt front well
starched, the pebbles of his spectacles
gleaming, and his peachy cheeks all
puckered up into dimples. But as he
gave me his hand I became conscious
that there was an assurance about
him — a dignity even — that he had
not possessed before. Cool and cheerful
he had always been, but timid.

Now, he did not seem to be afraid of
anybody.

He grinned at me as though we were
two old foresters who met after a long
separation and were going to have an
evening of it.

It's right of you to have come so soon,

my excellent friend. Where are you
staying ?'

Nowhere ; my cab is at the door with
my servant.'

Capital. I have a spare room, and
can put you up. Your servant can sleep
at an inn a few doors off. Let me manage
it all, and then I'll return for a few moments
to my friends in the next room and get rid
of them. They are some of my parliamentary
supporters, and we have been
holding an important conference. One
word, however. I have a piece of news

which I should Hke you to digest during
my brief absence. Prince Wolfgang is
dying;

Prince Wolfgang, the King's son-in-law
!'

Yes — it's very sad, isn't it ? ' Protruding
his under lip over his upper and
nodding like a mandarin. Dr. Felix 
laughed, or looked as if he did, for
there was no making out the exact meaning
of his facial convulsions. ' Prince
Wolfgang has got softening of the brain.
You have no doubt heard that he was
very fond of surgery. He liked to cut off
people's legs and arms, and he wanted to
pass an examination. Well, he overdue it.
One day he proposed cutting off the
King's leg, and people saw there was
something wrong. The family thought
he wanted rest after his hard studying, and

took him off to the country. But now the
truth is out — it is known at least in Court
and political circles. The illness has made
galloping progress within the last fortnight,
and the doctors say he will die within a
year.'

'Well, then, all Count Hochort's
intrigues ? '

Exactly, my dear young friend,' nodded
Dr. Grinzener. ' But now excuse me for a
quarter of an hour, and reflect over what I
have said during my brief absence.'

The importance of Prince Wolfgang's
approaching death as regards Prince
Frederick's position was obvious. The
King's secret wishes and Count Hochort's
open efforts had all tended to get Prince
Wolfgang proclaimed heir to the throne in
Prince Frederick's place. But if Wolfgang
died or were recognised to be incurably

mad, the plot must collapse. Prince Wolfgang
had children, but no minister could
think of getting the succession altered in
favour of a boy four years old (for such
was the age of the eldest son), whose
accession would render it necessary to
appoint a Regency. I saw all this in a
moment. Fate had confounded Prince
Frederick's enemies, and I began to wonder
now whether the same power would work
for or against Isabel, his wife.

The room In which I sat was the study
of a man who worked. The walls were
covered with bookshelves, and the shelves
were crammed. The carpet was a poor
drugget with holes. The red reps of
the sofa were threadbare, and the green
leather of the writing-table was frayed
with wear. The only ornaments in the
room were a marble bust of Prince frederick,

a fine oil portrait of Prince Frederick
on an easel, and a rich silver inkstand with
an inscription stating that it was the gift
of Prince Frederick. Whether Dr. 
loved Prince Frederick in his heart,
no human being could probably have discovered
; but he had attached his fortunes
to him, and the thoroughness of his
service showed the hidden strength of his
character.

Now he was 'apparently about to get
his reward. He was already a parliamentary
leader, and might become the
Prime Minister of tomorrow. But it was
strange to think of the owner of this
shabby room on a second floor in connection
with such a dignity.

I heard the Doctor show his guests outwith
broad German words of good cheer
as he helped them on with their overcoats

and ordered his two servant-girls
to assist them with their goloshes. Presently,
when the last had gone, and when
I had caught the sound of Joe's voice
bringing up my luggage, the Doctor opened
the folding-doors of his dining-room and
said charmingly to me —

Come in ; now we are alone.'

The bare table of the plainly furnished
room was covered with pipe ashes and beer-glasses,
and a red-armed wench was opening
one of the windows to let the smoke
out.

Now, Malchen,' said Dr. Grinzener
paternally to the girl, ' you must get the
Herr Captain some supper.'

Liber simnel ! Herr Doctor, but all
the shops are closed.'

Yes, but there is a cold pork chop in
the meat safe, and a piece of Brunswick

sausage, which I did not finish at my midday
meal. This with some coffee — not
too much watered, Malchen — must do for
to-night, and mind you put a hot water
tin in the Herr Captain's bed, for the thermometer
marked five degrees Reaumur
below zero this evening.'

If the Herr Captain eats both the chop
and the sausage there will be nothing left
for his servant,' observed the unsophisticated
Malchen.

Sophie must take the Herr Captain's
servant round to the inn whence we get
beer, and tell the landlord with Dr. 's
best compliments that the young
man is to have supper and a bed.'

The young man may then perhaps sup
better than his master. Shall I tell Sophie
to bring back a dish of carbonade (veal
chop) for the Herr Captain ?'

The Herr says No,' replied Dr. Grln-
zener, after a consulting look at me. He
then showed me the way to my room, and
when I had dismissed Joe till the morning
I returned to the frugal supper provided
for me.

Whilst I tackled the pork chop Dr.
Grinzener, who had lighted a fresh cigar,
walked up and down the room, and stopped
every now and then to take a sip out of
his beer-glass. Until I had quite finished
he spoke only on trivial subjects, but when
the tray had been removed, when our two
glasses had been replenished, when the
two maids had been sent to bed, and when
the petroleum lamp in the vestibule had
been put out by the Doctor's own careful
hands, then he drew his chair close to mine
and said —

Now, my dear young friend, you have

had time for reflection, and I may continue
my discourse. Count Hochort's power is
broken. I and my esteemed friends who
met here this evening can turn him out
of office when we please, and the King
knows it. His majesty sent for me yesterday,
when the order of expulsion against
you was cancelled by my desire!

He half closed his eyes as he said this,
and all the dimples seemed to be suddenly
ironed out of his cheeks, giving him for a
moment an air of solemnity. He felt himself
to be nearing the top rung of the
ladder, and evidently expected to be congratulated.
I congratulated him.

Thank you. If his Majesty deigns to
require my services he shall have them.'
This was spoken with a little bow, during
which all the dimples reappeared. ' But
now, please to follow me. I and my

esteemed friends could rouse all Kronheim
and all Germany against Count Hochort
by letting it be suspected that he was
scheming to get Prince Wolfgang's little
son raised to the throne after King Franz,
for it would be imagined, and rightly, that
he was ambitious of becoming one of the
Council of Regency, so as to remain in
power during the whole of the young
King's minority. This would not be
tolerated. The mere suspicion of such
a thing would damage his character and
force him to resign.'

But you say that Prince Wolfgang's
illness is not generally known ? '

It has not been mentioned in the
papers. You see, this scandal with the
Fraulein Isabel Meadowes has placed us
in a difficulty. If it had not been for that
I and my esteemed friends of the Opposition

would at once have given the widest
publicity to the illness, so as to rid our
young master once and for ever of
all hostile machinations. Ah, my young
friend, his return to Sabelburg would have
been a triumph ! He would have soon
been welcomed by the acclamations of
the whole country. There would have
been such a revulsion of public opinion in
his favour that all the past would have
been forgotten ; and we of the Opposition
where prepared to lodge an interpellation
asking Count Hochort whether the Bad-start
Gazette, which has systematically
slandered our Prince, had not been subsidised
out of the secret service fund. Weare
a small party in Parliament — the
Opposition in this country always is, — but
the nation would have been with us. The
mob would have broken Count Hochort's

windows, and his dismayed majority would
have seized a pretext for abandoning him.
And think if, on the top of all this, we
had been able to announce our Prince's
betrothal to the Princess Blanche ! Alas,
alas ! The story of this clandestine
marriage with the Fraulein Isabel has
stopped us short just as our trumpets were
sounding for the march. What a pity
that you could not prevent it ! '

How could I prevent it ? I was in
prison.'

I know, I know. You are quite
blameless.' These were not mere words
on Dr. Grinzener's part. I am sure that
before giving me his confidence he had
arraigned me for mental trial, had compared
dates and had pondered over my general
conduct until not a point was left against
me. 'You are with us, I know,' he

added, ' and I am sure you deplored the
marriage.'

Be that as it may, the thing is done
now.'

But it can be undone.'
I doubt it.'
'Why?'

Because there has been a marriage,
by which the Prince is bound in honour,
even if there be any legal flaw, and
because I believe the two love each
other.'

I think Dr. Grinzener winked. He
certainly grinned, toyed, chuckling, with
his watch-chain, and pointed a playful forefinger
at me as he stood up.

Honour, Herr Captain, is a question
which deserves a chapter apart. A prince's
first duty is to his house and to his people
to the people from whom he has received

all that he possesses and by whose loyalty
he is what he is. So if a prince's public
honour clashes with his private honour,
one of the two must be sacrificed, and
it becomes a question as to whether he
shall be faithless to one woman or false
to millions of men and women. You
agree ? '

No, I don't;

Well, it is not necessary that you

should adjudicate ; for the appeal must be

made in the last instance to the Prince

himself. Now we come to the "love."

The Prince married out of wounded vanity,

out of lassitude et pour faire passes le

temps. These are not elements of love. I

know the Prince's character. The best of

his heart's affections were given to the

Princess Blanche, and this love was

honourable, as satisfying both his private
VOL. Ill 52

inclinations and his public duty, to say
nothing of his legitimate ambitions. It
may be that the while the Prince is travelling
about like a private person he will
remain fond of his travelling companion,
but separate him from this lady for a few
months, bring him back here under his
altered circumstances, freed from all
worries, a popular idol, and the assured
heir of a king with one foot in the grave,
show him what he might do to please his
people and magnify himself, and do you
think that the slight chain which now binds
him would not snap ? '

I trust the Prince would in any case
prove true to the wife he has wedded,' I
said, beginning to feel warm and wishing
the window could be opened again. 'Once
and for all I must tell you. Dr. Grinzener,
that I am on the side of the Prince's wife.'

That is only natural,' he answered
mildly, * but you must remember, my
young friend, that I may be Prime Minister
soon, and it will not be pleasant for me
to be encumbered by this clandestine
marriage at the outset of my official career.
I would rather see the affair disposed of
before I came to office. In law, as you
know, the marriage is worthless. Even if
the Prince had been simple Mr. Hochfeld,
he could not have contracted a marriage
in England without formalities at our
Kronheim Legation, which have been
neglected. The Fraulein Isabel knows
that very well. She has taken the risks
of an irregular marriage with her eyes
wide open.'

'An Act of Parliament could declare
the marriage valid.'

An Act of our Parliament could enable

the Prince to contract another marriage
with the Fraulein Meadowes, but it could
do no more. Were I at the head of the
Government, however, I should not introduce
a Bill for this purpose without the
strongest pressure from the Prince. It
would be most unpopular.'

Why should it be unpopular ? The
Kronheimers could not have a more
beautiful or a kinder Queen than Princess
Isabel;

The opinions of the people are made
for them by a few persons,' said Grinzener
lightly. ' The aristocracy would be against
the Fraulein, some newspaper editors
would attack her, and you would have the
masses flaring up against *the foreigner,"
as she would be called. I, meanwhile, as
Minister, should have to be considering
whether I was really pleasing the Prince

by making his chains fast. Supposing I
noticed that he had got tired of his
Frdiclein ? Supposing I learned too — a
not impossible case — that he had secretly
hinted a wish to sundry politicians that
the Marriage Bill should be carried no
further than might be needful to prove his
good faith towards the Frctulem ? It is
not all above-board play in politics, my
young friend, and I do not wish to be
left on my back upon the floor of our
Parliament with a silly torn Bill in my
hands.'

What do you propose, then. Dr.
Grinzener ? '

Why this — that the Prince should
return to Sabelburg, but without the
Frimlein. We will officially deny the
marriage ; the Prince shall reside at Court
for a month, and during that time he can

look about him and decide reasonably
whether he will marry, and whom.'

But he is married.'

No, Herr Captain, he is not. Sleep
over it and you will agree with me. Tomorrow
we shall have other things to
discuss. Liber Hini7nel ! there is the
church clock striking two ! '

Dr. Felix Grinzener lit a candle set ina
brass candlestick, and, shading the light
with his hand, conducted me to my bedroom.
A fire had been lit two hours
before in a little iron stove, and the air
was like that of a forcing-house.

I hope the bed is warm,' he said, as
though the atmosphere were chilly ; and
he poked his hand under the feather
edredon which did duty for blankets and
counterpane. ' Malchen did not forget
the hot water tin. It's all right. Coffee

at eight o'clock, eh ? Gate Yacht, liber
Her' Rittmeister. '

And squeezing my hand softly, he
laughed from ear to ear, rejoicing in some
unuttered joke.

1 HAD heard that Dr. Grinzener was a rich
man. His style of living was the result of
education and habit. To such men wealth
consists in having money, not in spending
it ; and they go on accumulating thousands
without adding a cutlet to their dinners.
They are generally the men who enrich
nephews or endow universities. They
have the pride to be talked of when they
are gone rather than when they are alive.

But Grinzener had perhaps been saving
up for the game of politics, in which he
was right, for the game is expensive, and

when a man has a passion for it his
nephews had better make what they can
out of their uncle whilst he is still with
them.

Dr. Felix Grinzener's kinsfolk appeared
to have rallied round him pretty quickly
when they heard that the King's countenance
was beginning to shine upon him ;
and one of the first uses to which our
friend turned his sprouting influence at
Court was to advance his brother, Dr.
Faustus Grinzener, who was a medical
doctor. Long before the red-armed Malchen
had come into my room and plumped
down a tray with a cup of cafe an lait on
the table beside my bed. Dr. Felix, clean-shifted
and with his chin new reaped, had
sallied out like an early bird to catch the
particular little worm on which he had set
his eye. I was calmly taking another

hour's sleep while that worm was being
pecked up.

Joe arrived towards nine, and it took
him half an hour to elicit from the two
maids that there was no other tub in the
apartment except the veritable tub in
which these damsels washed household
linen once a week. This having been
sanded, scalded and scoured, he carried it
off in triumph to my room, subsequently
emptying the small domestic boiler to the
last drop to fill a can of hot water — proceedings
which caused much stupefaction
to Malchen and Sophie, and then sent
them into fits of laughter, which they
smothered by stuffing the corners of their
blue aprons into their mouths.

It was past ten o'clock when I sauntered
into the Doctor's study with an Englishman's
easy sense of being up betimes and

fresh to begin the day's work. By that
time Grinzener had got through enough
business to satisfy the Emperor Titus's
notions of a well-spent day. He came in
just as I had glanced through the morning
papers, bringing with him the other
Grinzener — his brother Faustus, who was
so absurdly like him that one could not
repress a smile in eyeing the pair.

The difference between the two was
that Faustus was somewhat bulkier than
Felix, and being a family man with domestic
responsibilities, laughed a little less.
But when he did laugh, he laughed louder,
having no cares of State to vex his soul,
and having learned no doubt that a doctor's
jolly laugh is one of the best medicines
for patients.

Presentations over, Dr. Felix drew me
aside and informed me that he had just

obtained for his brother the appointment
of physician and custodian of the insane
Prince Wolfgang.

I have had early audience of his
Majesty. I asked for the appointment,
and got it at once. I think they were
glad to give it me, feeling that my brother
Faustus in a Court post would be a hostage
for my considerate treatment of Count
Hochort. But now there is a thing which
the King and the Princess Ursula much
desire, and it is that the palace on Lake
Grllnsee should be assigned to Prince
Wolfgang for a residence. His Royal
Highness is at Grtinsee now, but he is
staying with his wife in one of the villas of
the valley, where he cannot be kept under
proper restraint. In the island he could
be easily guarded, and, as escape would be
impossible, he could be allowed to roam at

large to the great benefit of his health,
while at the same time he would be
secluded from prying eyes. Do you
think Prince Frederick would consent to
give up his favourite residence for the
remainder of his cousin's life ?'

The circumstances are so exceptional
that I should think he would consent without
hesitation.'

So I said to the King, but I promised
him to ask you, for his [Majesty knows you
are here, and I told him you had instructions
to go to Griinsee yourself.'

Yes ; I am to fetch some of the Prince's
things away, and I am to dismiss all the
foreign servants.'

That will just do, for we can place a
set of suitable attendants in their stead.
My brother Faustus will choose them,
and you can travel down with him this

afternoon to make all necessary arrangements.'


Is the matter so very pressing, then ?'

Indeed it is. Prince Wolfgang is giving
the greatest trouble. He breaks away
from his villa, and has to be cheviot across
fields and woods. His antics are beginning
to attract attention.'

I suggested that it would only be right to
consult Prince Frederick before making free
with his property, and we discussed whether
a telegram might be sent. Grinzener
objected because telegrams pass through
so many hands, and because we must
describe Prince Wolfgang's condition very
clearly in the telegram in order to explain
our request. Eventually we decided upon
a letter, and Grinzener in his expeditious
spirit set me to write it at once.

Whilst I was at the desk he packed off

his brother to recruit a staff of picked
attendants from among the private asylums
of the capital, and made an appointment
for him to meet me later in the day. Dr.
Faustus hurried off with a jolly laugh, and
Dr. Felix returned grinning to read my
letter, seal it, stamp it, and deliver it to
Malchen for immediate posting, registered.
I had requested in the letter that the
Prince should telegraph at once if he were
unable to permit Prince Wolfgang to be
housed in the palace ; but I added that
we should interpret his silence as consent.
And now let me tell you what I have
done this morning,' said Grinzener, proceeding
to count his performances with the
forefinger of his right hand upon the thumb
and fingers of his left. ' First, I have
telegraphed to the Rothschild of Budapest
to honour Count Hochfeld's signature for

any draft, and I have sent a telegram to
Count Hochfeld informing him of this.'

You will have relieved him of a serious
anxiety I answered, laughing, 'for he was
beginning to feel the pinch of poverty

Yet his Royal Highness is not extravagant
as princes go,' demurred the faithful
Doctor. ' He does not exceed his income,
which in a prince is economy, whereas
saving is in them often the sign of an
avaricious spirit. But now, secondly, I
have arranged that the report as to the
Prince's alleged marriage shall be denied
in the next number of the Official Gazette.'

I am sorry you have done that.'

It was needful, my young friend, and
the denial will be given flatly. Thirdly,
I have received the Kino's gracious
communication to yourself on the subject
of this invalid marriage, and it is to this

effect : His Majesty will confer on Fraulein
Meadowes the title of Countess, and
will see that she is suitably provided for
for life. But she must separate herself
from Prince Frederick for three months,
and the Prince must return to Sabelburg.
If at the end of three months he be inclined
to marry the Countess Isabel, his Majesty
will consider the subject by the light of
events that may have occurred in the
meanwhile. Possibly he might raise the
Countess to the rank of Princess and
authorise the marriage. It depends, I say,
on circumstances, but nothing is promised.
Meanwhile his Majesty does not recognise
the ceremony that has taken place, and he
forbids the Frditlein to enter the kingdom.
As for Prince Frederick, he will be recalled
by a military order following on his appointment
as Inspector-general of Infantry, an
VOL. Ill 53

appointment which will be gazetted in a
few days.'

Those are hard conditions, Dr. ,'
I murmured, with a deep pity for
Isabel. * They mean that during three
months every artifice will be used to part
Prince Frederick from his young wife.'

Everything will be done to make
Prince Frederick hear reason, but if you
are persuaded of his love for the Frctulein,
why should you fear to see it put to the
test .^ '

Love is like a tendril growing up round
a prop : remove the prop '

That is poetry, not politics,' chipped
Dr. Grinzener. * Be candid enough to own
that the King is disinterested in all this,
for if Prince Frederick prove refractory he
will, though married in his own opinion,
be unmarried before the law, and at his

death the crown must pass to the King's
grandson, the son of his dearly loved
daughter Ursula.'

And who is to carry the King's commands
to Prince Frederick ? '

You,' replied the Doctor. * That is my
last point. His Majesty desires to avoid
all scandal, and relying on your discretion
will charge you to bear verbally his Royal
message to the Prince. You will start as
soon as Prince Wolfgang is installed at
Grtinsee. This is a high honour, Herr
Captain.'

Honour or not, it was a comfort to me
to know that I should be able to prepare
the Prince and Isabel for the ordeal that
awaited them. It was all to Isabel's advantage
that she should hear in the first
instance from me of the trial to which it
was proposed to submit her husband's constancy.

I meant to be true to her. She
should be warned of the weak points in her
position, and Prince Frederick should be
put upon his mettle by seeing me confident
in the pledges which he had given to
his English wife. This was my firm
resolve.

As there was nothing for me to do until
the time came for going to Grlinsee with
Dr. Faustus Grinzener, I accepted Dr.
Felix's invitation to accompany him to the
Parliament House. I think he only wanted
to exhibit himself to me there in his new-won
glory, for there was no business of
importance under debate. However, as
we ascended the steps of a building with a
Greek portico it became manifest that
some rumour of Prince Wolfgang's illness
had escaped from Court and political
circles into the ears of the common people.

Groups hung about the steps and thronged
under the colonnade. The Doctor was
twice accosted by inquirers, who he told
me were journalists. He answered affably
that the Prince was ill, but said no more.
He was much saluted, and several times
whispered to me with unconcealed satisfaction
that some of the gentlemen who
doffed their hats to him were members of
the majority.

'A month ago,' he said, 'these gentlemen
would hardly have acknowledged a
bow from me.'

Admission was procured for me to the
Distinguished Strangers' Gallery, a box
whence the spectator looked down upon a
debating hall of the ordinary continental
type. It was an amphitheatre, with the
seats arranged in blocks and tiers. Every
seat had a desk before it, and all the seats

were green except those on the innermost
semicircle, which was on the floor of the
House. These were all scarlet, and were
reserved for the ministers. Facing the
amphitheatre was a three-storied platform
with tables for reporters and secretaries,
and on the topmost platform, enthroned ina
gilded chair, sat the president, a little
old gentleman with a piping voice, who
kept moving a loud copper bell on a swivel
to maintain order.

Count Hochort walked in, and the
general hum of conversation which had
provoked the ire of the little president
ceased. Every eye was turned towards
the Prime Minister, who alone in the
assembly seemed unmoved. He had that
cast-iron expression under which statesmen
of aristocratic training hide all sentiment.
The work for which he had

schemed during years was undone : all his
hopes were shattered ; the prospect that
lay before him for his declining years was
retirement without honour or influence, for
he had made an enemy of the Prince, who
must now certainly become King, and his
portion could only be obloquy. Yet he
sat calmly reading State papers, and only
looked up when some fellow - minister
approached him to whisper. Behind him
sat rows upon rows of ministerial members,
still disciplined, but glum, and all
knowing full well that they would never
again be called upon to vote in a mass
at the bidding of the once autocratic
Minister.

By contrast with Count Hochort, Dr.
Felix Grinzener was the very type of the
bourgeois parliamentarian. A strong man
too in his way, but restless, and looking

furtively to his aristocratic rival for patterns
in manners, he sat smirking amid his
handful of supporters, all self-made men
like himself, with clever-looking heads,
shocks of hair, bold noses, and largely-split
mouths fashioned for hustings oratory.
Nature had created these men to sit in
perpetual opposition, but a little disturbance
in the cranium of a Prince had made
the wheel of fortune spin suddenly round,
and brought them from the nethermost
spoke to the highest but one — for they
were just about to become the official
party. Count Hochort had identified himself
too much with Prince Wolfgang to
stand, and Dr. Grinzener was too completely
associated with Prince Frederick to
be kept out of the Premiership. In a
short time before or after a new general
election most of Count Hochort's supporters

would become Grinzener's, and
Count Hochort would disappear from
Parliament, leaving only the memory of
an unsuccessful plotter. This was as
well known to everybody as though the
little president with the bell had proclaimed
it at the full pitch of his piping
voice.

The hum was renewed, the bell once
more jangled, and then again there fell a
deep silence. A member was standing up
behind Dr. Grinzener to ask whether it
was true that Prince Wolfgang was
seriously ill. Count Hochort rose. A
few low-spoken words, a wave of the hand
with a gesture of dignified sorrow, and in
the prolonged murmur that followed the
Parliament and the people in the galleries
all became aware that the news was confirmed.


At this moment I felt a tus at
my sleeve, and turning saw the stupefied
physiognomy of Mr. Mildmay Milkinson
in the next box — the diplomatic.


You here ? Why, I thought you were
expelled ! '

But I'm called back.'
We never heard of it.'

You're rather late with your news.'

We never hear anything at the
Legation,' owned Mr. Milkinson with
desperation. 'What is that they have
been saying downstairs ? Who's ill ? '

Prince Wolfgang.'

'We never heard that either. Is he
dangerously ill ^ '

Going to die, I believe.'

'upon my soul, it's too bad. Sir George
will be pitching into me. I must be oft

and tell him. But, oh — ah — I say, what
must I say to him about you ? '

Nothing.'

'That's not much.'

Well, you may say, if you please,
that I'm here on a special mission, which
is '

Which is — oh, I say, do tell me, there's
a good fellow.'

'Which is to try and bring Miss
Meadowes, now Princess Isabel, to be
Queen of Kronheim.'

Mr. Mildmay Milkinson bent upon mea
countenance laden with dumb reproach.
My effrontery in hoaxing him — for he
believed I was hoaxing — was too much
for his powers of expression. He dropped
his umbrella, tripped over a chair, and
vanished to tell Sir George.

An hour later I started for Grlinsee

with Dr. Faustus Grinzener and three
queer-looking, heavy-shouldered fellows,
whom he had hired to act as attendants on
the crazy Prince Wolfgang. Joe went
with us.

The villa which had been hired for Prince
Wolfgang was that which had been
occupied by Mira Vogelsang during the
previous summer. It was one among
many that were always let during the fine
season and remained empty for eight
months of the year. Standing on slightly
elevated ground, with a sloping lawn in
front and a garden behind, it commanded
a view of the whole lake, and was ten
minutes' walk from the village of Grlinsee
and Andreas Riedl's Swan Inn.

Poor Princess Ursula had brought

down her husband to this place in a hurry
on the first intimation from the Court
doctors that he wanted bracing air and
rest. Nobody thought at that time that
the illness would take a serious turn. It
had begun, on the very day of the Princess
Dorothea's wedding, with a bad headache
and a contraction of the muscles on one
side of the face ; but the Prince sat out
the wedding banquet, and those who
noticed incoherence in his language attributed
it to the toasts.

In the night he got up, took his case of
surgical instruments, and went to the Royal
palace, saying he must cut off the King's
right leg without delay. It was then that
the Court doctors pronounced their dictum
and that the Princess started for Griinsee,
taking with her only a very small suite,
which included a physician whose speciality

all these German doctors are specialists
was children's illnesses. This learned
man knew nothing whatever about brain
diseases, and kept assuring the Princess
Ursula that Prince Wolfgang was only
suffering from neuralgia.

But the disorder grew at a fearful rate.
The Prince was afflicted with that malady
which ends in general paralysis. Its invariable
symptoms are hallucinations,
making the patient believe that he is
possessed of boundless wealth and exalted
rank. Prince Wolfgang imagined that he
was to be crowned German Emperor, and
that he was going to build the most
colossal hospital that the world had ever
seen. All the patients in Europe were to
be brought there in order to be operated
upon by him. He had invented a new
anaesthetic which kept patients unconscious

till they were cured, and a new system of
transfusion of the blood, and he could replace
amputated limbs by artificial flesh and
bones working electrically. He had also
contrived a magnetic machine for cutting
off a hundred limbs at a stroke.

He could reason with apparent lucidity,
but passed without a pause from calmness
to delirious excitement. He went about
the garden hacking at the leafless rose-trees
with his sword. He had a mania for
cutting and lopping. He caught hold of
his wife's lap-dog by the tail, and was only
just stopped from snipping off the tail with
a pair of scissors. Poor Princess Ursula
went in fear of her nose, for, having
observed redness at the extremity of
that member, he had promised to order
for her a new nose made of mother-of-pearl.


The Prince had to be closely watched,

but could not be controlled, for the least

hindrance to his whims threw him into the

most hideous fits of passion. The saving

of the dog's tail nearly cost a man-servant

his life, for the Prince aimed a sword cut

at his head which would have cloven him

to the shoulders had not the man promptly

guarded himself with a chair, and then

bolted. As Prince Wolfgang was strong

nobody durst approach him singly. Even

his wife dared not remain alone with him for

an instant. If the fancy took him for going

out of the villa grounds he had to be

followed at a distance. The villagers had

been warned to keep out of his way, and

fled when they caught sight of him ; but

one of his favourite haunts was the Swan

Inn, and he had once or twice stalked into

the public room when the place was full,
VOL. Ill 54

and before anybody had got a signal of his
coming.

Prince Frederick's lazy Greeks and
Montenegrins were the principal customers
of the inn during winter, when there was
no boating on the lake, and when no
tourists were about. These men sat playing
cards and swearing the livelong afternoon,
while Andreas Riedl smoked his
china-bowl pipe by the stove, and Lisbeth,
his daughter, knitted stockings behind the
counter with Frida, the goose-girl.

The entrance of the mad Prince always
brought the Greeks and Montenegrins
respectfully to their legs, but they were
not afraid of him, and their brute courage
reacting upon him, as is often the case
with the insane, kept him so tame in their
company that they could not see there was
much the matter with him. Only Bojo

Kleptovltch disliked him, for Bojo had
been paying his court to Lisbeth Reid all
through the cold weather, and the Prince
seemed to frequent the inn for no other
object than to offer Don Juanesque gallantries
to Lisbeth and to Frida at the same
time. The two girls were too scared to
resist when he slipped his arm round their
waists and kissed them turn about ; and
old Andreas used to make energetic signs
to his daughter to take these caresses in
good part. But Bojo's swarthy skin turned
to a leaden colour, and he used to utter
vehement imprecations, nor did it soothe
him to see that his dusky companions
enjoyed his discomfiture, and laughed to
themselves, while the Prince, unheeding
them or him, lounged with both elbows on
the counter and drivelled his nonsense.
One day there was a scene. The Prince

seized Lisbeth roughly by one of her long
plaits of hair and talked of cutting it off.
The girl screamed, Bojo strode up to the
rescue, was sent reeling back with a blow
on the chest, and unsheathed his knife.
He was disarmed by his companions, and
the Prince was induced to go home, but
this led to the summoning of cerebral
specialists from Sabelburg ; and it was
after they had signed their dismal report
that Dr. Faustus Grinzener and I were
sent down to Griinsee as already stated.

Arriving late, we alighted at the Swan
Inn, but Dr. Faustus and the three attendants
went at once to the Prince's villa and
spent the night there. Early next morning
a message came for me to go and seethe
Princess Ursula, and I was received
by her in private. She had never looked
upon me with favour, for I was in her eyes

a profligate, an abettor of Prince Frederick
in his French tastes ; and since our last
meeting she had doubtless heard garbled
versions of my relations with the Princess
Dorothea. Her eyes were red from much
crying, her features were flushed, she was
badly dressed, and she looked horribly
tired and nervous, poor thing. But it was
in a tone of some haughtiness and asperity
that she addressed me, asking how long it
would take to get the palace ready.

I answered that it would be ready by
evening, as there was nothing to do but
light the fires and air the rooms. I had
all the keys, and the palace was completely
stored with plate, linen, and such things.

But there are a number of foreign
servants with the faces of banditti. We
cannot be waited upon by these men. One
of them drew a knife upon the Prince.'

They are all going, madam. Some
servants from Prince Frederick's town
household are coming down to-day.'

'And I shall send for some of my
servants.'

Certainly.'

Prince Frederick consents to all this ?'

He was written to yesterday, madam,
and I am sure he will desire you to treat
the house as yours.'

And you, sir ; are you going to reside
at the palace ? '

I shall await your Royal Highness's
orders and then leave.'

My deferential manner and the genuine
sympathy expressed in my looks perhaps
touched her. She turned her head and
glanced into the garden, where the Prince
and Dr. Grinzener were walking about.
The Prince gesticulated, and the Doctor

laughed heartily. They seemed to be
capital friends.

This is very sad, Captain,' resumed the
Princess Ursula in a chastened tone ; * the
doctors say there is no hope for my poor
husband.'

Doctors often say the worst from a
too great fear of raising false hopes,' I
answered gently. ' The Prince is young
and strong.'

'You say that because you are not a
doctor. Have you known of illnesses like
this being cured ? '

I have seen surprising cures from
brain diseases. The brain is like other
parts of the body, and all soldiers know
men who are walking about active and
healthy after receiving terrible mangling
wounds on the battle-field.'

God hear you!' exclaimed the Princess.

Four young children to be left fatherless !
And such a good husband and father as he
has been ! He was not one of those
princes who leave their homes — he was
always with us when he could be. My
poor, poor Wolfgang ! '

As her voice broke she made a sign tome
to withdraw, which I did full of compassion.


On my return to the Inn I met a number
of Prince Frederick's servants, who had
been sent from the capital by Dr. Felix
Grinzener. They had been driven from
the railway station ten miles off in some
open carts with a little straw to sit down
upon, and they were standing at the door
with their luggage, not knowing where to
go next. Their gold-laced cocked hats
and long drab overcoats mated incongruously
with the rusticity of the surrounding

scene ; and the unfortunate fellows, with
their fat faces blued from the cold, and
their mouths blowing on their finger-tips,
looked, and no doubt felt, ill-used men.
Joe Trotman had been trying ineffectually
to comfort them.

How do you do, sir ? ' said one of the
servants, touching his hat, and I recognised
Mr. Bobbs, the English coachman.

Good morning, Mr. Bobbs. These
are cold quarters ; you had better go in and
get warmed.'

'Thanked, sir. Is Prince Frederick
coming down ? '

He may come.'

'I 'ope he will, sir. Fact is I'm not
accustomed to drive anybody except Prince
Frederick himself now.'

Never mind that, Mr. Bobbs. I
want you all to lend a helping hand this

morning, and I'm sure you'll set the
example.'

Andreas Riedl gave me Lambeth and
Frida to assist in the household work, and
presently we all went down to the landing-stage
— carts carrying the luggage. The
Montenegrins were all at their posts on
the island ; four of the Greek sailors had
got the steam of the launch up and were
ready with wherries for the boxes.

Bitterly cold was the day, with a keen
east wind blowing, and the panorama of
snow on the hills and valleys all round the
lake was indescribably mournful. Everywhere
snow. The dark pine trees were
burdened with it, the black rocks were
draped in hanging shrouds of white. On
the green waters of the lake floated slabs
of ice with a snow fronting upon them, and
there was a dull gray sky over all.

A couple of journeys took the whole
party of us over, and we soon got to work.
A cook and a pair of scullions set a fire
roaring in the kitchen ; Joe and the footmen
with their coats off unlocked doors
and opened shutters, and the two girls
slaved with all their might in the bedrooms.
Said the comely Lisbeth to me
with a sio^h —

Ah, gracious sir, we shall be glad to
get the poor Prince on to the island, for
we can't sleep at nights from dread lest he
should break in upon us.'

The palace was so large that we could
provide ample accommodation for the
Prince and the Princess without intruding
upon Prince Frederick's private apartments.
Keeping in view that the patient
must not escape, I allotted him a couple of
angle rooms which could only be approached

through the suite which Dr.
Faustus was to occupy. Five adjoining
rooms were to be assigned to attendants,
and direct communication between the
Prince's rooms and the passage was to be
cut off by locking the doors.

As Lisbeth and Frida were making the
bed in the Prince's room the former
smoothed down a pillow and exclaimed —

Poor Prince ! I hope his throbbing
head will lie softly here. Ah, Mem Herr
it makes one's heart ache to see him and
hear him.'

Has he given you much trouble ?'

It's not that. I'd rather have him
talk to me or to anybody than see him
talk to himself. He walks down the road
sometimes with his eyes fixed, muttering
and laughing alone ; and it's then that he
looks awful. Always in uniform too, but

the cap on wrong, or the sword dragging,
or something to show that his mind Is
gone.'

'And so savage when he's angry,'
broke In Frida. ' Remember how he
pitched Bojo across the room the other
night. Bojo is a tough man too.'

How came that incident ? ' I asked of
Lisbeth, though I had heard something
about it from her father Andreas.

Bojo was jealous of me,' answered
Lisbeth, blushing and pouting ; ' but I
wish he would let me alone, for I hate
him.'

Is It really so ? ' and I looked at Frida
for confirmation.

'Yes, Lisbeth can't bear him,' affirmed
the dark-eyed goose-girl. ' He's brutal,
and a bully, and makes us afraid ; but so
they all do, these men with brown faces.

Why can't Prince Frederick be waited
upon by Germans ? '

Patience : they will not be here much
longer.'

'Are you speaking seriously, Mein
Herr?' asked Lisbeth eagerly. 'Will
Bojo go ? Ach, Gottt sei Dank ! '

You think he is a bad man ? '

'A very bad man. He talks against
poor Tristan Hardmuth now as bitterly
as though Tristan were still alive, and I've
seen him laugh in recalling how Tristan
was shot in the dark.'

You never heard him say whom he
suspected of shooting Tristan ? '

The two girls looked at each other reddening,
and turned their heads away, presenting
to my view only four long plaited
tails of hair as they bent over their bed-making.


Oh, it would be an ill day's work
listening to all that Bojo says,' muttered
Lisbeth, giving a dig to the mattresses.
I believe all the nonsense which the peasants
talk about Prince Frederick and this
palace comes from that wicked Bojo and
the others.'

We got through our work quickly — so
quickly that when some dinner had been
cooked for the servants with provisions
brought from the '' Swan," little more remained
to be done ; and I thought it would
be a good plan to move Prince Wolfgang
on to the island before nightfall. But first
I told Joe to put on his coat and hat and
come for a round out of doors with me.

It occurred to me as we walked into the
bleak park that I could not dismiss all the
foreign servants until we had a sufficient
staff to take their places, so I postponed

this matter for the present. I perceived
some Montenegrins mounting guard among
the trees, and without doubt cursing me in
their souls for having stopped their card-playing.
Bojo met us on our way, and very
sulky was the. salute he gave me. As he
was the head man I asked him if he had
anything to report, and he said, ' No.'

No poachers, no trespassers ? '

No, nothing.'

How are the lions ? '

I'm not their keeper.'

But you've heard, I suppose ? '

I believe the old lion is dying ; but it's
no business of mine.'

Well, Bojo, I shall have something
to say to you tomorrow, but for to-day
you'll keep out of Prince Wolfgang's
way.'

I never got into his way, he got into

mine,' answered the Montenegrin with a
scowl, ' and he's not my master.'

Upon this he turned away, muttering :
I'm Prince Frederick's servant, and so
are you. Let me do my duty, and do
yours.'

Blooming saucy chap that, sir,' exclaimed
Joe, without understanding what
he had said.

We were at some distance from the
lion's house and could not afford time fora
visit to it that afternoon, so we retraced
our steps, crossed over to the mainland in
the launch, and walked up to the villa. I
took Joe with me to help in transporting
the Prince's things.

Princess Ursula did not expect me so

soon, but was glad to get her husband

conveyed to a place of safety without

delay. Dr. Faustus had given him some
VOL. Ill 55

bromide, which had calmed his nerves, and
he had been asleep most of the morning.
He was now writing in the study with the
two doctors, Grinzener and Stiss. Dr.
Swiss (a namesake, but no relation of Frida,
the goose-girl) was the physician who had
diagnosed neuralgia, and Princess Ursula's
faith in him was not shaken on that
account, for he was sticking to his opinion,
which is the best thing a doctor can do.
To the pessimism of the specialists he
opposed the imperturbable optimism of the
Court physician, and the afflicted wife
found consolation in him.

You can go in and see the Prince,'
said Princess Ursula, and I walked into
the study.

The Prince had a dim recollection of
me, but shrank away a little from my
glance, as the insane do at sight of

Strangers. Dr. Faustus whispered that I
had been sent by Prince Frederick to convert
the palace on the island into a great
temporary hospital, and that we were all
going to see the place together. The
Prince smiled shyly, but in response to my
cheerful nod of assent held out his hand
reassured, and cried —

We'll all go together ; see these decrees
I have been signing.'

He was seated at a table littered with
papers, and kept dashing off illegible
scrawls with a quill pen dripping with ink.
Every page was blotted and smudged, and
his fingers were black to the knuckles.
Dr. Swiss's share in these amusements was
to sit smiling benevolently with an air
which seemed to say : ' This is not my
treatment, but I am watching it with interest.'
He was a comparatively young man,

with his hair parted down the middle, welcomed
pepper and salt whiskers, and a
hand like a lady's.

Dr. Faustus rose, and said we had no
time to lose. 'Your Highness ought to
be there when the first batch of patients
comes.'

I'm not Highness. I'm Imperial and
Medical Majesty, War Lord and Arch-surgeon
of Germany,' exclaimed the Prince,
standing up. ' Come along, give me my
sword. '

It is gone to have the new hilt of
rubies put upon it,' replied the smirking
Dr. Faustus. ' Your Majesty said that a
surgeon's sword should be red.'

I want my sword,' demanded the Prince
imperiously. But the wish went out of his
head, and suffering an attendant to throw
a mantle over his shoulders, he strode out

of the house muttering something about
*a hundred thousand men with electric
legs.'

As we walked towards the lake, however,
followed by Joe and the asylum
attendants with bags and wraps, the Prince
became suspicious, and the conversation
flagged. Hallucinations come and go like
the pangs of physical pain, and while Dr.
Faustus Grinzener gabbled about the new
hospital, the silent Prince seemed to be
aware that he was talking rubbish. He
was making a fatiguing effort to collect his
thoughts ; his brow was knitted, and he
walked fast with his chin on his breast.
The endeavour was too much for him, it
gave way as we stepped on to the launch,
and crossing the water the Prince talked
hysterically of the universal reign of
medicine : 'No more suffering for anybody.

Everybody cured. All Nature's
secrets discovered. Health the boon won
for all mankind.'

But when we had landed there was
another scene. Having walked twenty
yards the Prince stopped and wanted to
go home.

'This is Frederick's palace. I've seen
enough of it. The Princess is waiting forme.'


The Princess is there said Grinzener,
taking his arm. ' Don't you see her at the
window beckoning ? '

Where ? I don't see her. She's not
there. You're lying to me. Unhand me,
will you ? '

There was the glare of the trapped
animal in his eyes as he sprang away from
the doctor and stared round at us all. But
Joe and the attendants barred his way,

and Bojo Kleptovitch, who, notwithstanding
my orders, appeared on the scene,
stood a little way off with his arms folded
and a vicious sneer on his face.

Who's that man ?' screamed the Prince,
seeking for the hilt of his sword. ' Bring
me my sword, I say.'

With difficulty he was calmed. As
night clouds chase each other over the
pale surface of the moon, so fancies obscured
the dim light of reason that was
still in him, and left him helpless in the
mental dark. He let himself be led into
the house, and began moving from room to
room on a round of imaginary inspection.
But the suspicion that he was a prisoner
had got fixed in his mind.

'Yes, that will do very well,' he kept
saying. ' Four beds here, six there.'

And such pictures on the walls for the

patients to see,' put in Dr. Faustus, who
followed him panting.

Light, air, and scenery from all the
windows ; that's capital ! ' repeated the
Prince in a hurry. ' Everything is perfect.
But now I want to go.'

He said this determinedly, and was
half-way down the grand staircase in a
moment.

Leave me to deal with him alone,' said
the intrepid Dr. Faustus, straddling after
him as fast as his stout legs could go ; and
in effect this seemed to be the best plan.
Seeing himself alone in the garden with
the doctor the frightened Prince became
more composed. I saw the two walk away
together out of the garden into the park,
and the doctor appeared to have regained
his ascendency.

'You had better keep back,' I said to

Joe and the asylum attendants, who had
scampered after me, * but watch the .'


Just at that moment I met Lisbeth and
Frida, who, with their hooded cloaks on,
were returning to the inn.

'You had better wait until the Prince
is indoors,' I said ; ' and you, Joe, go down
to the stage and tell the Greeks to take
the launch across the water.'

The two girls, huddling together, kept
close to me. The light was growing dim,
and a rising east wind, cold as ice, whistled
lugubriously through the trees.

Let us remain with you, Meinherr',
whispered Lisbeth. * There is Bojo over
there.'

Bojo must have been waiting for the
girls, for he stood on a path which they
must needs cross in going to the launch.

He did not stand aside for Joe, who
brushed past him. The girls and I in
company followed the course which the
Prince and the doctor had taken.

They had walked towards the shore of
the lake on the near side, about three
hundred yards beyond the landing-stage.
At this point they stood opposite that part
of the valley where the Prince's villa was
situated. The villa, with a light in one of
its windows, was distinctly visible. Lisbeth,
Frida, and I took refuge under a clump of
trees, and some muffled laughter came
from the girls, who were trying to keep
each other in countenance.

I beheld Dr. Faustus sit down on a
bench, with his elbow on the back and his
head on his hand in the easiest attitude.
The Prince, standing up, threw off his
mantle and waved his arms as though

making a speech. The wind sweeping
over the lake in gusts caused a doleful
moaning, and every moment there were
reports like pistol shots when two slabs of
ice on the water met and cracked.

Lisbeth asked a question which made
me look round. In the same instant she
and Frida uttered shrieks. I saw the
Prince catch up something from the
ground and fling it at Dr. Faustus, who
stumbled forward on his knees, but rose,
holding a hand to his head, and grappled
with the Prince, who made a spring
at the water. The two disappeared
together.

I ran forward, with the screams of the
girls ringing in my ears, and reached the
water's edge just in time to see two bodies
wrestling together in mid-current. Two
heads rose above the water for an instant

and plunged under. Then one hand
appeared, and after this there was nothing
upon the water but circles of rings,
bubbles, and slabs of frosted ice smoothly
floating.

It was of little use that I floundered into
the water and nearly drowned myself in
attempting to rescue the two men. Drags
had to be fetched before they could be
pulled out, and they were hauled to the
bank tightly locked in each other's arms,
and both dead.

Force had to be used to separate them.
My immersion in the icy water, chilling
me to the marrow, incapacitated me from
rendering any assistance in this scene,
which was enacted by lantern light amid
a crowding circle of servants. I had stood

by the water s edge all the time the bodies
were being dragged for, and when the
corpses were separated I gave orders that
they should be carried into the palace and
laid out as decorously as possible, while
Dr. Stiss went to the villa to inform the
Princess Ursula of her bereavement.

Well was it for me then that several
witnesses had overheard Dr. Faustus 
enjoin me to leave him alone with
the Prince, for the distracted Princess
behaved at first like a raging tigress, and
was for throwing all the blame on me.
Dr. Stiss defended me at the expense of
poor Grinzener, and now that the Prince
was beyond reach of medical controversies
this physician had a facile task in
persuading the Princess that her husband
would have been cured and might have
lived a long life if he had not been

drowned. I believe he has since written a
pamphlet to prove this ; and he remains a
noted authority on neuralgia.

The last offices had been rendered to
the dead Prince before his wife arrived at
the palace. Lisbeth and Frida, sobbing
but active, assisted the men-servants, and
on the pillow where Lisbeth had hoped
his throbbing head might rest softly, that
head reposed never to throb any more.
The Prince lay dressed in a new uniform,
his hands folded on his breast, and his face
handsome and calm. Not a sign upon his
features revealed his late mental trouble.
His wife, as she threw herself wailing upon
the bed and pressed her face to his cold
cheek, might well break into lamentations
that one so imposing in his manly beauty
and strength had died before his time.
Thou hast not left me, my Wolfgang,'

she cried, looking with streaming eyes at
his white face, and drawing his head onto
her bosom she stroked his hair, kissed
his brow, and rocked him.

The hapless Dr. Grinzener lay in a
neighbouring room, but the Princess never
asked to see him. He too deserved pity,
for he had a wife and children, and had
died that he might do a kind act. Only
kindness had made him humour the lunatic
in his last crazy whim for going about unguarded,
and this was the result. A still
more pitiful reflection was that Dr. Faustus
had fallen a victim to his brother Felix's
success in life. How little does the rising
placeman know whether he distributes
boons or curses when he lifts his friends
out of their stations to share his good
fortunes !

It became my melancholy business to

send out the official telegrams notifying
Prince Wolfgang's death to the King, the
Prime Minister, to Prince Frederick, and to
Dr. Felix Grinzener. I drafted one circumstantial
despatch of about five hundred
words' length, and the four messages were
identical. After this I had to superintend
the removal of the Prince's body to the
villa, for the Princess would not let her husband
remain in the palace. A common shell
was fetched from the village undertaker's,
and we laid the Prince in it, covering the
lid with a peasant's cotton velvet pall.
Borne on the shoulders of six servants,
the bier was carried from the house to the
steam-launch, the Princess following on
the arm of Dr. Sliss, and the Montenegrins
lighting the way with torches. On the
mainland all the inhabitants of the village
were assembled, though it was past mid-vol.

Ill 56

night. A long straggling procession was
formed, and the Montenegrins still lighting
the way with their brands of flaming pine-wood,
we tramped slowly on our mournful
duty through the cold and gloom of the
night.

I was obliged to return to the island,
and the telegraph wires kept me busy till
daybreak. It was stated in a former
chapter that a telegraph office was installed
in the palace itself, and the clerk who
worked the instrument, the son of one of
the lodge-keepers, resided on the island.
Never did this young man have such a
night of it. The King, Count Hochort,
and Dr. Grinzener all wanted more details ;
then messages of condolence came through
for the Princess ; orders about the funeral,
the lying in state, the embalming, and
notices as to personages who would arrive

at Grtinsee in a few hours — Royal Commissioners,
doctors, embalmers, and undertakers.
I sat with the clerk in the telegraph
room, unwinding the tape, and to
relieve him I had to despatch a number of
messages by hand to the nearest village
station, three miles away.

Among the earliest arrivals after daybreak
were the King, Count Hochort, and
Dr. Grinzener, who travelled down by the
same train with most of the members of
Prince Wolfgang's household, comptrollers,
equerries, and servants. Mr. Bobbs drove
his Majesty from the station to the villa in
one of Prince Frederick's carriages, while
Dr. Grinzener came on at once to the
palace. Very affecting was the scene
when I took him — the parliamentary man
into the room where hi dead brother
lay. He did not try to control his grief,

but threw himself on his knees, letting his
tears and his words of endearment gush
out. Even at this sorrowful moment, however,
the wide-awake spirit of the politician
asserted itself, for Dr. Felix could not
refrain from saying to me as he rose from
his knees and wiped his eyes —

His Majesty has been particularly
civil to me. Everybody noticed it.'

I was called away to receive the King,
who was coming over to the island to
see the spot where the catastrophe had
occurred. Hat in hand I stood on the
landing-stage when the King stepped from
the launch, and he put up his hand to his
military cap, but said nothing. He had
been crying, and his face was wan. Count
Hochort followed him, and then came a
number of officers. We walked in silence
to the place whence Prince Wolfgang had

jumped into the water. The ground was
all trodden in by the men who had done
the dragging, and there was a great patch
of frozen water — the water which had run
from the clothes of the two bodies drawn
out of the lake. Blood was also to be
seen on the bench where Dr. Faustus sat
when the Prince threw a stone at him.

The King, with his hands clasped and
his head bent, stood and looked at the
green water for a few moments, his suite
forming a semicircle behind. But not a
word was spoken, and we returned as we
had come. Count Hochort, very pensive,
looked up with curiosity at the palace,
which he had never seen before. Until
that day it would have seemed the most
unlikely thing to him that he should ever
set foot on this island owned by Prince
Frederick.

I wish to see Dr. Faustus Grinzener,'
said the King, in a low voice, when we
reached the garden, and, as though awaiting
this intimation. Dr. FeHx emerged
from an arbour and led the way with much
bowing and using of his pocket-handkerchief


I did not follow the Royal party into the
house, but remained at the door, and
found myself unexpectedly alone with
Count Hochort.

Was Prince Wolfgang really mad ? '
asked the Count, without any prefatory
greeting.

Out of his mind, certainly,' I answered.

And should you say incurably ? '

It is difficult to speak without experience
of such cases.'

If the Prince was curable, then his
death is a great pity, for he was an excellent

Prince,' continued Count Hochort,
absently prodding at some hardened snow
with the tip of his gold-headed walking-stick.
' I suppose Prince Frederick will be
here for the funeral ? '

I telegraphed last night to the Prince.'

'Yes, to Budapest, and your message
could not be delivered. We sent a
Government message, and the answer
returned that Count Hochfeld had left.
Can't you guess where he is ? '

Perhaps in Bulgaria.'

He ought to travel back now. Fortune
has dealt and cut finely for him
during his absence. He has only to
take up his cards and play them.'

There was no irony in the Minister's
tone. He had a hard look and a sharp
voice; but, as I. judged his character, he
was a man to throw up his cards without

fuss against Prince Frederick's better
'hand.'

After King, Princes, and statesmen we
had an incursion of newspaper reporters
and artists on this day of woe. Among
them was Harold Crowe, who was to
make a page of sketches for one of the
London illustrated journals. I was able
to spare him an hour of my time, for the
arrangements concerning the Prince's funeral
were not in my hands. The body,
having been embalmed, was to be transported
by a night train to Sabelburg, and
there lie publicly in state for three days.
On the seventh day after death the funeral
would be held with the customary pomp,
and Prince Wolfgang would sleep thereafter
in the Royal vault of the Hochfelds,
among the coffins of a hundred kings,
electors, princes, and princesses.

What a queer chance it has been that
made Wolfgang die in this way, instead of
Frederick,' remarked Harold Crowe as he
stood sketching the scene by the water.
Now I've always been expecting that
something of this kind would occur to
your master.'

But you didn't think him mad when
you were down here ? '

Was Hamlet mad ? These princes
and princesses, when they step off the
strip of red carpet which is their proper
walking-place, can't bear the stones of our

common pavement. Fancy the state of
mind of a man who is addressed as
'' Highness," who is a general at twenty,
and gets plastered over with grand crosses
before he can speak plain. Have you
ever thought of the rigs these people must
have played in the old times, when insanity
was less understood than it is now ?
In the Middle Ages Wolfgang might have
gone about hacking and maiming his
peasants for a long time before anybody
would have ventured to stop him. We
have changed that — perhaps we shall improve
away the whole brood of princes
some day.'

I didn't know you were such a republican,
Harold.'

I wouldn't erect scaffolds for these
people or anything of that kind,' answered
the artist, plying his pencil ; ' but it's not

too much to hope that popular ridicule
may end by killing them off, and many of
them may contribute gladly to their own
happy despatch. See how sick they are
of their own lives, many of them — how
they tug against their marriage laws, which
condemn them to loveless unions. Yet
they all remind one of those Strasbourg
geese who are strapped down on their
backs in over-heated cellars so that their
livers may be enlarged. The fixed idea
of the maltreated goose is to get a breath
of fresh air, but if he can wriggle out of
his straps and slip through an open door
the first nip of east wind sends him waddling
back in disgust.'

I say, if you give expression to
such sentiments as that within earshot of
any courtier, you and I shall be laid by
the heels.'

Harold laughingly put up his pencil,
and using his india rubber began prophesying
how the marriage of Frederick and
Isabel would end. ' I told you he would
marry her. It was a whim ; he was bound
to gratify it. If he wanted a Raphael or a
Titian he would buy it without counting
the cost. But whims pass, and Frederick
facing a gale of national opposition will belike
our Strasbourg goose with the big liver
in a yard where the thermometer marks
below zero. He will be for going back to
his straps and reclining posture in the
warm air.'

But my hopes are in Isabel. Some
first-rate queens have begun by being
girls such as she.'

'A weak mouth,' answered Harold, and
turning over the leaves of his sketch-book,
he showed me a portrait of Isabel which he

had executed while she was at Sabelburg.
It was a very good Likeness, but had that
touch of caricature in it which marked all
his compositions. It represented young
lady's in Isabel's manner and appearance
; and Harold, amused by my fancy
for it, rattled on : ' Belgravian drawing-room
— grand reception of ambassadors and
duchesses at five o'clock tea. Implacable
firmness in striking young Doodles of the
Guards off her visiting-list for having been
seen in suspicious female company. Supplications
of Doodles's mother. Severe lecture
from and final surrender of Isabel.
That's about the style. But now look at
this sketch of Mira Vogelsang ! She has
much more of the marble in her out of
which queens are sculptured, for I believe
if her Frederick was to tell her to hang up
her uncle with her own hands, so that he

might have five minutes' entertainment
after luncheon, she would offer her stay-laces
were a rope not procurable, and she
would sit practising her scales under the
beam while her relative kicked the air
above.'

I was examining the other sketches in
the book, and came upon one of Bojo
Kleptovitch. Here the caricaturist's skill
had succeeded in lending to the model the
look of sly and surly villany which belonged
to him.

I wish you would give me this,' I
requested.

Certainly,' said Harold, tearing out the
leaf ; ' is that unhung scoundrel still here ? '

Yes, but I am to get rid of him.'

It won't be too soon. I may tell you
now that he tried to circulate the report
that you had murdered Tristan Hardmuth,

and I shouldn't wonder if he himself were
the murderer.'

'That is my own belief; but there's no
tracing the crime to the man.'

No real attempt was ever made to
discover the murderer. It was part of
Hochort's system that the affair should
remain a mystery to Frederick s detriment.
I wonder how Hochort feels now .-^ '

Cool enough, I think. He was talking
with me this morning.'

'Yes; but there must be hell in his
heart. Don't you be deceived. These
disappointed statesmen will stand for a
time like an oak struck by a thunderbolt,
and then of a sudden down they come with
a crash. One day Hochort will have a cold
in the head and expire in a fireside sneeze
all the core in him blasted by the
thunderbolt. But come along to the lion

house, for I must put that into my Graphic
sketches.'

Two men from the Zoological Gardens
of Sabelburg had been hired to keep the
lions since the misadventure at the Venetian
fete, and one of them, as he gave us
admission, confirmed the report that the
old lion was dying. ' It seems that he
once had a keeper named Tristan who was
murdered, and people say he has been
pining ever since, sir. I can't see that
there's anything the matter with him ; but
he sits looking at the gate of his cage, he
eats little, and grows thinner and weaker.'

Large fires burned all day and night ina
stove to maintain the air of the circus
cage at a tropical temperature, and the
place was half darkened because several
windows had been blocked with straw to
exclude the cold air. The lioness was licking

her paws with composure, but the Hon
crouched with his head on his fore-paws,
tired and Useless. He looked up, however,
when we came in, eyed us intently, and
then resumed his posture of indifference —
a lean, forlorn beast.

Poor Tamerlan, how long did your
master grieve for Tristan like that ? ' exclaimed
Harold. 'You seem to me to be
mourning for the pair of you.'

As we walked back to the palace, the
artist lighting his pipe and blowing another
whiff against the ingratitude of princes,
we came upon the grove where the Princess
Dot and I had our romantic interview
on the night of xh^ fete. All the details of
the scene rose vividly to my mind, and I
was halting to think over the episode, when
the sound of voices reached us, and we

beheld that very Princess Dot walking
VOL. Ill 57

towards the grove on the arm of Grand-duke
Rothbart. Their Serene Highnesses
must have arrived by an afternoon train.

I had no wish to meet the pair, so
Harold and I withdrew into a plantation
but there we could not escape unheard,
and so had to remain unseen witnesses of
what passed.

Rothbart, dear Rothbart,' said the Princess,
gazing with fond languor into her husband's
face. ' Do you know why I have
brought you here ? '

It's very cold,' answered the Grand-duke,
turning up the ends of his red
moustache under his still redder nose.

It's here on this very spot that I resolved
you should be my own dear Roth-bart
— for did not I always adore thee ?
You remember that /e^e when the lion
broke loose ? '

'Ah, hem, yes. A scurvy trick of that
rascally Englishman.'

Everybody ran away except my brave
Rothbart. You alone, dearest, stood and
defied the beast who might have devoured
your poor little Dot.'

I've never been afraid of lions,' said
the little Grand-duke, with a complacent
recollection of his own bravery.

But that Englishman, how he ran !
After that scene of death which we have
just witnessed, dearest, it's good to laugh a
little,' and the Grand-duchess Dorothea's
silvery voice pealed out, as she retired
leaning amorously on the arm of her lord
and master.

Voilct comme on crit Histoire laughed
Harold, as we issued from our concealment.
I might have given him a narrative
which would have added considerably to

his amusement, but of course the Princess
Dot's secret was safe with me. I was
even pleased to see that she was playing
her wifely part so well, and only hoped
she might be doing this of good grace
not of necessity, from having found out
that the Grand-duke of Weniggeld, ' terror
of the French,' was an awkward potentate
to manage.

The day's work was done, and another
dull day dawned. Prince Wolfgang's body
had been removed to Sabelburg. Harold
was gone, the villa was shut up, and I was
left alone at the palace with the corpse of
Dr. Faustus Grinzener and with Prince
Frederick's servants. I tarried this extra
day because Dr. Felix had asked me to
take charge of his brother's body and convey
it to the capital.

Why the two bodies were not removed

together I cannot say, but it never
occurred to the Court officials who manage
these things to suggest such a proceeding ;
and although some newspaper paragraphs
stated that the Prince and his ' faithful
doctor ' were to be entombed side by side,
Dr. Felix was wrong if he believed this
(as I suspect he did for a while). I suspect,
moreover, that he intrigued somewhat
to receive this honour, which would
have caused his family name to figure
everlastingly in guide-books, and to be
repeated a thousand times a year by the
custodian of the Royal vaults, exhibiting
the same to tourists. But this was not to
be. The King pensioned Dr. Faustus's
widow handsomely, paid for his funeral,
and promised to take care of his children.
But nothing more was done, and Dr.
Faustus was never to be alluded to at

Court as one whose name deserved to beheld
in especial remembrance.

Prince Frederick's servants were not
sorry to remain this extra day at Grantee,
for they made a pretty penny in showing
the island to strangers. These arrived in
swarms, and I saw no reason for prohibiting
them from crossing over to the island.
There are officials who in my place would
have taken a particular delight in issuing
prohibitive edicts, for of all the 
pranks which jacks-in-office play,
there is none which they relish better than
the shutting out of the public from sights
which arouse a natural curiosity. The
people came over in boastful all day ; but
soon an altercation arose about gratuities
between the Prince's town servants and
the six Montenegrins. The four Greek
sailors took no part in the dispute, for

they got their separate profits from the
hurrying.

Words rose high, and the Montenegrins
as usual threatened murder. If these
fellows kept their words every time they
talk of ripping up a man, the places they
inhabit would be slaughter - houses. As
none of the Montenegrins except Bojo
spoke more than a few words of German,
they were useless as guides ; but Bojo
raised a claim that all the guiding and
pocketing should be done by him and his
men. He threatened to punch in Mr.
Bobbs's stomach, he swore to gouge out
the eyes of Joe. Finally, he said that
he was master in the island, and would
allow nobody to land except under his
escort, even with my leave.

This brought matters between me and
Bojo to a climax. I had intended to pay

off all the foreigners before returning to
Sabelburg in the evening, having received
money for the purpose from Grinzener,
and it had been agreed between us that
until German gamekeepers could be hired
a few gendarmes were to be stationed on
the island. These men — four of them —
very opportunely arrived (with instructions
to take their orders from me) just after
Bojo had scared the indignant Mr. Bobbs
indoors ; so I sent word to Bojo that I
wanted to see hint.

The man was so determined to be
saucy that he disregarded the first two
messages brought him by Joe, and the
third time he replied that if I wanted to
speak to him I could use my own legs.
The fourth message was carried him by a
gendarme, and he came, swearing all the
way.

'What have you given all this trouble
for ? ' I asked, when he stood facing me on
the other side of my writing-table, and I
told him forthwith that he was no longer
in the Prince's service.

*You can't dismiss me. I'll only take
my dismissal from Prince Frederick. You're
no more than I am.' These were Bojo's
words, uttered flatly with an impudent curl
of the lip, and he plunged both hands into
the pockets of his baggy blue breeches,
as though he had a good mind to whistle.

You will not only go, but you will take
yourself clear away from this neighbourhood,'
I said. ' Here is your money, count
it and be off'

I shall live where I please,' answered
Bojo. * I suppose you've not become
king of this country that you can order
people out of it.'

'Look here, my friend,' I replied, holding
up Harold Crowe's sketch before his
astonished eyes. ' Do you see this picture
of yourself ? I mean to have it photographed.
I have always thought that
there were not enough inquiries made
about Tristan Hardmuth's murder, but I
believe that if copies of this likeness were
distributed in the villages some people
might recollect having seen you prowl
about on the day when that poor man was
foully murdered.'

Why should I have killed him ? ' asked
Bojo hoarsely, but his evil face had changed
colour.

Perhaps you wanted his place ; perhaps
you thought you were shooting at the
Prince and meant to rob him. How can
I tell what passed through your mind ?
But I suspect you, and if you don't take

my advice about going from the country
you may live to regret it. Not but that
we shall find you if you are proved guilty,'
I added. ' I mean to ask Prince frederick
to take up this case again, and if we
trace the crime to you, there isn't a cavern
in your native Black Mountains that shall
hide you.'

This hit the man. He had the barbarian's
mysterious amazement at portraits,
and not knowing how this one of his had
come into my possession, he feared.
Catching up his money, notes and gold,
he tied it up in a corner of his red pocket-handkerchief
and slipped it into his sash.
But at this moment his pent-up rage would
not let him part from me without defiance.
I had left my place and moved to the
middle of the room. He turned and shook
his fist 'in my face.

My response was to open the door,
catch him by the collar, and send him outwith
a kick below the waist. I might well
have spared this kick. I should have
restrained myself if I could have guessed
what would be the result of it.

The other foreign servants did not take
their dismissal badly. To pay them their
travelling expenses home and to give them
three months' wages was like handing to
each a small fortune. I said something
kind to them all, and as they had been
leading idle lives since the autumn they
seemed to think it natural that their
services should now be dispensed with.
The Greeks thought of their sunny homes
by the ^gean, the Montenegrins of their
mountains, and perhaps they were rather
glad to go than otherwise. They all
thanked me, the Montenegrins like the

rest, for these men were civil enough,
allowances being made for their native
churlishness, when Bojo Kleptovitch was
not there to demoralise them.

But Bojo had left the island swearing
vengeance against me by his gods, whoever
they might be. Towards evening I
went to the Swan Inn to carry a present
to Lisbeth and Frida for their kindly
ministrations, and the two girls instantly
exhorted me to beware of Bojo. The inn
was crowded with customers, and the girls
were hurrying about holding the handles
of half a dozen beer tankards in each hand;
but Lisbeth left her work for a moment to
say to me in a corner —

Mein Her 7% take care ! Bojo has sworn
that he will bury his knife in your heart.
Father had to order him out of the
house, he frightened some of our customers

so. But he's prowling about somewhere
now.'

He won't be here long, I daresay.'

But take care of him, Mei7i Herr. He
says he will follow you to the end of the
world till he gets his chance.'

He may find this travelling rather
expensive, Lisbeth. Don't be afraid of
him, but be glad you have got rid of the
fellow. '

I am glad, sir,' she said, ' for now '

Now you can marry an honest German
with a fresh pink face and a golden beard.'

I didn't say that, Met7i Herr', she
answered, laughing. * I declare those
gentlemen are calling out for more beer.
I must run away.'

Bojo troubled me no more that night.
When the village was silent and only the
watchdog were barking, and when the

Stars were twinkling in a dark blue sky,
and a pale light was abroad from the
reflection of that star-gleaming upon the
earth's covering of snow, a hearse drove
down to the water's edge, and we carried
Dr. Faustus Grinzener's coffin across the
water.

The hour of our departure had been
kept secret, so that no peasants were
about. We had a ten miles' drive, some
in carriages, some in carts, and were in a
hurry to catch a certain train. It was nota
special train, and, as we had no Court
Chamberlains to order a ceremonial for
us, I had to go through a number of sordid
formalities in the small room of the stationmaster,
where a petroleum lamp smoked.

The coffin had to be registered as a
piece of luggage, and a porter stuck a label
on it. It was lifted into a luggage van,

and the change for the money which its
fare cost was laboriously counted out tome,
some of it m pfennigs, Joe was meanwhile
taking the tickets for me and his
fellow-servants. The porters who had
lifted the coffin advanced, touching their
caps and wanting something; the driver of
the hearse wanted something ; the man
who had driven the carts wanted something.
Mr. Bobbs was angry at having
to drive back to Griinsee with his horses
and spend another night alone. The other
servants grumbled that the train was not
an express. In the midst of all this a
score of milk-cans were trundled on to
the platform and hoisted into the van with
the coffin. There was not room for them
anywhere else.

Dr. Felix Grinzener met us at the
station in Sabelburg, and told me with disappointment
that the King wanted the
funeral of his brother to be held as privately
as possible. So it would take place at
nine o'clock in the morning with none but
relatives and friends present. The coffin
was to remain for the rest of the night at
the station. Goinor on foot with me to his
home, the Doctor was in low spirits all the
way — not about his brother's death, but
about his obscure burial. He thought it

hard that his brother should be ' shoved
VOL. Ill 58

aside' in this manner. He was sure that
Hochort was at the bottom of it. Some
members of Parliament had asked him
why his brother was not going to be buried
at the same time as the Prince, and he did
not know how to answer them.

I assure you my poor brother's death
hasn't done me the least good,' he remarked
naively. ' I feel the Court want
me to be ashamed of it, as though he had
done something wrong.'

Then Dr. Grinzener was despondent
about Prince Frederick, who had telegraphed
from Philippopolis, saying he was
sorry that he could not reach Sabelburg
in time for the funeral, but begged that
a wreath might be put on the coffin in his
name.

'You know the Prince does me harm
by all this,' murmured the wretched .

' People will think he [ought to be
here — that it was ungracious of him not to
come ; and I, who have to defend his
interests, shall suffer in popularity. Things
were going on so well too, but they are
not going on well now — no, not at all.
The people are mourning for Prince Wolfgang,
and comparing him with Prince
Frederick ; and do you see some of the
papers have been attacking you for not
having kept better guard over Prince
Wolfgang ? '

The sad funeral of his brother only
served to prostrate Dr. Grinzener still
more. It was truly a miserable affair.
The hearse was drawn fast along the outskirts
of the city to the general cemetery,
and nobody along the route knew who
was being carried by. Dr. Grinzener
looked wistfully out of the window of his

mourning coach to see if a crowd had
collected anywhere, but the people were
plying their ordinary avocations, and even
at the cemetery there was no one in waiting
but the Lutheran clergyman, who had
an overcoat and a worsted comforter over
his black gown. The weeping widow and
her boys in black, an old aunt with green
ribbons in her bonnet, three or four
cousins, and a couple of the deceased's
professional colleagues — these were the
only persons present. The clergyman,
reading the funeral service without any
attention to full stops, because of the cold
which numbed his fingers and the wind
which blew the leaves of his book about,
gabbled through the ceremony in ten
minutes, and he flung his handful of earth
on to the coffin as though he hasted to begone.


Supporting his sister-in-law, who was
convulsed with a heart-rending grief, Dr.
Grinzener wiped the tears from his wet
face and said to me —

One would think my poor brother had
committed a crime to be buried in this
way, like a dog.'

He fretted all the remainder of the day
because he received no message from
Court. Malchen brought him hateful of
cards, but they gave him no comfort, for
there were no great names among them.
He eagerly devoured all the newspapers to
see if there were any mention of himself,
and became jaundiced by the reiterated
praises of Prince Wolfgang and of Count
Hochort, who had been the dead Prince's
friend. There are bitter moments in the
life of a politician. A card arrived from
the High Chamberlain's office inviting Dr.

Grinzener to view the funeral, and he
threw it down full of humiliation.

Not even a seat in the church ! ' he
said ; ' but a place on a stand outside. All
this is Prince Frederick's fault ! '

Very different was the funeral of Prince
Wolfgang from that of his humble companion
in death. Princes from all the
reigning families in Europe had arrived,
and the hotels were thronged with them.
It was a cold day, with a slight falling of
snowflakes which dotted the black flags
hanging from every house in the city.
Pendant from roofs and balconies and
moved by the wind, these standards of
black bunting flapped and curled themselves
into fantastic shapes. All the shops
were closed. Hawkers sold bunches of
immortelles and crape rosettes with photographs
of the Prince set in them. Crowds

poured from all the side streets and formed
a multitude in the main thoroughfares
through which the procession was to pass ;
but the multitude was awe-struck and quiet.
These Royal deaths bring kings and people
closer together, whether the bond be one of
compassion or curiosity. While some feel
really moved, others are reflecting that a
prince who goes mad and dies a violent
death is but like themselves after all.
Our common humanity effaces the inequalities
of station, and the working-man
alive feels that he is more than the dead
prince on whom he looks down with
pity.

The roadway was strewn with gravel,
and the gravel overlaid with green rushes.
The church bells tolled, the voices of the
crowd blended in a long low murmur, the
dull boom of a cannon and the sounding of

distant trumpets announced that the procession
was approaching.

Troops of mounted Hussars with drawn
swords and nodding white plumes, Hussars
of different regiments with tunics braided
in yellow, white, and red ; troops of
Uhlans with the coloured streamers of
their lances knotted with crape ; troops of
dragoons with steel helmets and cuirasses,
their chargers stepping with noiseless footfall
over the rushes, and their scabbards
clanking in a soft rhythm. The bells continued
to toll, the cannons to boom, and
the crowds to whisper as infantry succeeded
cavalry and fresh squadrons rode
up after other battalions — the trumpets
alternating with the bugles, and the kettledrums
sounding a muffled roll. Then
batteries of artillery with their gunners
sitting cross-armed on the carriages back

to back, and the postilion drivers with
short whips urging their teams of six
horses with brown harness and steel
chains. Then music, which brought a
general hush and swelled, grandly plaintive,
through the air as a band went by
playing Chopin's Funeral March.

Now every man's head was uncovered,
and the women began to cry as the hearse
advanced, drawn by eight white horses
with black harness. A monument on
wheels this hearse, with its domed canopy,
its massive crown, and gaudily - painted
escutcheons. The coffin which it carried
blazed with gold, and on its bed of velvet
and ermine seemed a repository of precious
things — coronet, jewelled sword,
stars, crosses, medals, and ribands of all
colours. A pause : and then a sighing
hum from the crowds as the aged King

went by in his black coach, sitting back
with his face white, looking for no greetings,
acknowledging no salutes. A splendid
cohort of princes and generals followed
on foot as mourners. Uniforms from
every country in Europe, and stars of
every order of knighthood, appeared in
this throng. Emperors and kings of the
future walked in it. Noted commanders
of armies followed in its train, and behind
the most illustrious trooped officers without
number in gala uniform with crape on
their arms, and their faces set in a grave
expression of sorrow for the dead Prince,
whom all this pomp could not move, whom
all this tolling of bells, roaring of cannons,
plaintive music, tramping of princes and
soldiers, and sighing of a multitude could
not awake !

On the evening of the funeral day
Harold Crowe called on me and said —

As you are going to Bulgaria I shall
accompany you. There is nothing for me
to do here at present. Wolfgang's death
will have killed the carnival for this year,
and I may as well take this opportunity of
seeing the East.'

By all means come,' I answered gladly.
I shall start tomorrow.'

To fetch Frederick back ? '
'To tell him he is wanted.'

People talk of civilisation,' remarked
Harold Crowe, * yet here we are only-three
days' journey from London, and
have already unwound our reel of railway
lines.'

We were at Nisch in Servia, and at that
time the railway, which now goes straight
through Bulgaria to Constantinople, went
no farther than the above-named city.
We had travelled at ease, stopping fora
night at Vienna and another at Belgrade,
and now, after a third night in a
vile, insect-haunted hotel at Nisch, we

were waiting for the carriage which was to
carry us in a two days' drive to Sofia ; and
thence in another two days to PhiHppopoHs,
the capital of East Roumelia.

We were taking an after breakfast stroll
to reconnoitre the city, which was ceded to
Servia by the treaty of Berlin. Like all
Turkish towns, this one, when handed over
to its present occupants, was in a state of
indescribable squalor and filth. The Turk
keeps his cleanliness for his home, for his
little pink house with high walls which
turns its back to the street, all the windows,
except one alcoved and relished observatory,
facing towards the garden. So far
as regards public ability the Turk has
done enough when he has erected a fortress,
some mosques with slender minarets,
and a few fountains of running water.
His mercantile streets are crooked, dark,

and stenchful. The one-storied houses of
lath and plaster lean out of the perpendicular
; every winter gale blows down a few
of them ; every fire that breaks out burns
down a whole row. The shops are dark
holes without glass fronts. The wares are
exposed in the air on wooden ledges, and
when it rains they have to be pulled in
pell-mell. The roadway is strewn with
heaps of offal and vegetable refuse, over
which hungry dogs, pigs, and fowls fight.
The card — the much vaunted Turkish card
is a hovel with a blackened ceiling and
greasy divans, where a brass pan of charcoal
glows all day to light pipes, and where
a dirty waiter in a fez and slippers serves
little cups of sweetened coffee full of grits.
From the butchers' shops, loathsome with
blood and reeking sleeps' heads, to the
cook-shop, where lumps of mutton and

suspicious sausages hiss together in frying-pans
that smell of burnt fat, every place
where eatables are sold makes the Western
stomach turn.

The Turk, dignified and dingy, walks
about enjoying the bad odours, and wishing
for no improvements. If things are
improved, he goes. When the Servant
took possession of Nisch they had to open
the windows of the place — so to say — by
clearing away whole stacks of pestilential
houses, upon which the Turks sold all they
could sell, packed up their veiled wives,
their barelegged children, and the residue
of their goods in ox-carts, and set off for
Tambour, not forgetting to curse the Austrian
Jews and German tradesmen who
swarmed in to fill up the places left vacant
by their exodus.

Even rats, however, have their uses in

eating up the garbage of sewers ; and
although the Gentiles, who have taken the
places of the Mussulman in this and other
towns, may not be a lovable folk, although
their shoddy is offensive and their nasal
German a torment, yet one must be thankful
to them for doing something, however
little, to purify the cloaca left by Turkish
occupation.

Our morning saunter bringing us back
to the main street in which our hotel was
situated, we strolled on to see a monument
that stands on the outskirts of the town —
a tower which the Turks built in 1816 with
3000 Serviann heads. The Serviannns, led
by Moloch Obrenovltch, had risen against
their oppressors, but being beaten, 3000 of
them were decapitated, and their bleeding
heads set round upon round in a masonry
of wet mortar and concrete. The tower

when new was twenty feet high, but the
top has crumbled away. Some years ago
King Milan had a wooden four - pillar
canopy with a cross and railings built to
protect the ruin, but it remains too accessible
to the touring Philistine, who has
been known to pick skulls out and carry
them away with him to show to his
friends at home. The outer surface of
the tower is honeycombed with alveolar
which once contained heads, and if you
look close in you can see tufts of hair
from heads still undisturbed sticking out
of the mortar.

Those old Turks had a short way with
rebels,' observed Harold, who was much
interested in the monument, and began to
sketch it. ' Can't you picture the scene
which this Aceldama, where we are now

standing, must have presented when those
VOL. Ill 59

ghastly Osmanlis with their red arms and
dripping knives were wading about ankle
deep in blood ? '

One would rather not picture it,' I said,
pointing to some little Serviann girls with
scarlet and yellow striped aprons who had
begun to play at hide-and-seek behind the
tower.

Their grandfathers' heads may be in
there said Harold, 'and I daresay there
is some "Oldest Inhabitant" here who
was a small boy when it all happened, and
remembers the monument brand new, and
when sentries were stationed here to keep
the vultures off and prevent them from
pulling it to pieces before the mortar
had dried.' He was making a good
sketch, and continued : ' Does it not
strike you that we must reset our minds
like our watches when we get into a

country like this ? With all their new
constitutionalism, elections, and newspapers,
the Servians who live near a
monument of this kind must have notions
about human life which are not those of
the Greenwich meridian. I only marvel
that there should be a single Turk left
here, now that the Servians are the
masters.'

The Turks whom we have seen in this
town seem good fellows enough,' I remarked,
' and the Servians too, for that
matter — ferocious countenances but dull
tempers.'

Probably most of the killers and the
killed in this sanguinary business here were
good fellows,' said Harold, ' and no doubt
the Pasha who ordered the massacre had
his good points. One would like to think
of him as an old Turk with a white beard,

who washed his hands devoutly when the
slaughter was over, and thanked Allah for
sending him such a fine time. But the
real man was probably some fat little
fellow with a black coat and trousers, who
had been to Paris and read French novels,
and was afterwards accounted a very decent
society trifler amongst ambassadresses
at Constantinople. Did you ever see Mid-hat
Pasha, who was at one time the rage
in London ? The present Sultan has had
him strangled or starved. We petted him
in England as the man who was going to
constitutionally Turkey, but the cruel little
miscreant when he governed Bulgaria
strung up those wretched Bulgarians like
onions. I've heard that he had a craze
for radiating, and when he couldn't get
the Bulgarians to work on his roads without
pay he used to hang them.'

A little more of this and you will be
advocating the 'bag and baggage" policy,'
I said, joking.

No. I was thinking of the subject in
connection with Frederick, and wondering
whether, if he had accepted the Bulgarian
crown — of course there's an end of that
scheme since Wolfgang's death — the civilised
part of his nature or the embers of
savagery that lurk in most princes would
have got the ascendant when his Royal
Highness came to differences with those
Bulgarians. Remember how they got rid
of Prince Alexander of Battenberg, and
recollect the fate of all these Balkan rulers
Michael of Servia assassinated, Danilo
of Montenegro assassinated, Couza of
Roumania deposed, Aleko and Gavril of
East Roumelia deposed, Alexander of
Battenberg deposed. Not one of them

has ended his reign in his bed. Now, I
believe that if Alexander of Wittenberg
when he was called back, had picked out
all the suspected traitors in his army and
publicly shot them, he could be on the
throne now, and we in London, who are
pretty eclectic in our hero-worshipping,
would bracket him for equal honours with
Prince Bismarck, who sashes his opponents
like eggs.'

The moral of all that is that it Is time
for us to be going,' I observed.

'Yes,' assented Harold, shutting up his
book. ' By the by, have you noticed that
Bojo Kleptovitch has followed us from

1 Prince Alexander said to an English diplomatist on
the day of his abdication : ' If I were to stay here I
should have to shoot one hundred and twenty officers,
and I am so convinced that they deserve shooting that I
would cheerfully attend their execution in full uniform.'
He said this, but he lacked the ruthlessness for such a
slaughter.

Kronhelm ? I thought we had given him
the sHp at Vienna, but I think I caught
sight of his ugly face in the street just now.'

I am sure I did ; but what's the odds ?'

Nothing, except that our friend has
branched off the direct road to ]\Iontene-
gro. What can be his intention ? '

To see the Prince, complain of me, and
try to get some more money. I should say
that was his programme.'

Our plan must be to keep our revolvers
loaded,' replied Harold. ' Don't make too
light of that fellow. He has the face of
Old Nick, and must know his way about
this country better than we do.'

Our carriage was waiting at the door of
the hotel. It was a victoria, with four
small horses harnessed abreast. A very
dirty carriage that had seen a deal
of service, with the paint scaled off, the

hood cracked, and the cushions patched.
The horses were rough and wiry little
beasts, with greets to their weather-beaten
collars, which jingled loudly every time
they tossed their long manes. For coachman
we had a fiery, tipsy-looking little
Hungarian, with a black lambswool bonnet
and an overcoat made of white striped
baize and fox-skin. Joe, well muffled up
in an ulster — for it was cold — was to sit
beside him on the box with a double-barrelled
gun between his knees.

As our portmanteaus were being tied
up with rope to the hinder part of the
carriage, and our hat-boxes and bags
adjusted by the same means to the front
seat, Bojo Kleptovitch strode coolly out of
the hotel-yard, and looked on as if he had
not the slightest acquaintanceship with us.

No brigands on the way ? ' asked

Harold significantly of the landlord in
German.

No fear, sir — not on the Serviann side
of the frontier, at least. The gendarmes
keep good watch.'

'We may as well be on the alert too,'
remarked Harold, and rather ostentatiously
he pulled out our two guns from their cases,
set a packet of open cartridges under the
front seat, and then examined his revolver,
restoring it afterwards to the side pocket
of his overcoat. ' These may be of use
against wolves if not against brigands,' he
said, with a pointed glance at Bojo. ' Is
your revolver all right, Meredith ? '

Bojo's face might have been of stone
for all the concern it showed. He simply
watched our proceedings with lack-lustre
eyes, his hands being buried in the wide
sleeves of his overcoat, and his fez — for he

had adopted this head-dress — pressed low
over his brow. He stood Hke this till we
started.

We were comfortably seated, with a fur
rug to cover us. The little Hungarian
gathered up his reins, made his tongue
smack against his palate, cracked his whip,
and off we went with a merry music of
bells over a road smooth with hardened
snow. We had been driving about half
an hour when, the winding of a road downhill
bringing us in view of the ground we
had just covered, we saw Bojo on horseback
ambling quietly behind us.

Servia is a lovely country, but every
mile of it bears traces of its occupation
during four centuries by the Turks. When
the Turks wanted timber they cut up the
mountain trees bv the roots : the rain

washed away the vegetable soil, and now
the mountains rear their bald scalps to the
sky. It will need hundreds of years more
to repair this devastation. Servia has
rivers, but not one of them has been
rendered navigable, they are mere watercourses
straggling picturesquely through
valleys, broad but never deep. In some
places they look immense because they
swamp miles of fields ; in others they
dash along like torrents because huge
stones have been suffered to obstruct their
channels. The bridges are few, wooden
and cranky. Country-houses of the better
kind are not to be seen, for the Turks who
had money — the officials only — lived in
fortresses, and the Servians who earned
money had to give it to the tax collectors.
The villages are full of hovels, and the
churches are few and miserable, because

under the Turks the Christians were not
allowed to build churches, and since the
Turks have departed the zeal for church
building — a very strong one so long as it
could not be gratified — has somehow
abated. But the Turks did two good
things : they kept the roads in repair with
forced Serviann labour, and they multiplied
fountains. The main roads are all broad,
flat, and well dyke, and at every spot
where a traveller is likely to rest one
finds a stone fountain inscribed with
verses from the Koran, and a large stone
trough of running water such as the
Mussulman needs for his ablutions at
prayer time.

With our horses swiftly trotting, our
bells jingling, and with Bojo cavalcade
behind us like an escort, we cleared some
five and twenty miles of mountain and valley

roads without any adventure. Sometimes
we met a procession of mules with panniers,
sometimes a carriage like our own ; but
more often Utters on wheels, in which four
travellers, jammed close together, squatted
with their knees up to their chins. These
are the ordinary vehicles of the country.
The women on the road were all coarse
featured and ugly ; the men stalwart,
scowling fellows, with sheepskin coats and
woollen braccJicB bandaged round their
legs with leather thongs. Now and then
we came upon a black - gowned pope
(priest), with a beard to his chest and hair
down his back.

Harold did not like the company of
Bojo Kleptovitch at all, and showed
himself far more nervous than I was.
He kept looking round, anathematising
the fellow for spoiling our journey ; and

once he proposed that we should pull up
and let him go ahead. The Montenegrin
rode by as if he did not notice us,
but we overtook him a mile farther
on, and he settled into his steady amble
behind.

Confound the blackguard ! you see he
has got a rifle slung to his back,' exclaimed
Harold. 'What is there to prevent him
from picking you off in one of these zigzag
mountain roads when we pass under him ?
Remember he has sworn to take your
life.'

ril say what the Lord Mayor did
when he was taken out coursing and told
the hare was coming his way : " I thank
my stars I fear him not." '

That's all very well,' answered Harold,
but if that scoundrel took a pot shot at
you he would decamp in no time, and how

could we chase him ? I was never so
tempted to fire at a fellow's horse. By
Jove, I've a good mind to.'

He actually had a hand on his gun,
but I stopped him. Our coachman, who
had been jabbering with us in a kind of
German, began to howl, urged on his
team at a smarter pace, and pointed with
his whip to a town with a small fortress,
some spires, and a welcome sight of smoking
chimneys. This was Tsaribrod, our
first stage, where the horses were to rest
for a couple of hours ; and our Hungarian,
who liked to enter a town in style, drove
us, whooping and hallooing, at a gallop upto
the door of the best local hotel.

While we lunched off the only things
which it is safe to order in these Serviann
inns — eggs, a fowl killed for us, bread
(with a sour taste), and coffee — Bojo, who

had betaken himself to another inn, disappeared.
But when we resumed our
journey on to Pirot, where we were to halt
for the night, he was again mounted and
riding at a gunshot behind us.

He began to be a bore. Orientals when
aggrieved fasten their company on you in
this way. They sit on your doorstep for
days, or follow you about until everybody
knows that they have something to complain
of. Bojo meant to annoy, but I
reasoned with Harold that if the man had
had murderous intentions he would have
carried them out during the early period of
our journey, seeing that every mile he
rode inland must add to the difficulty of
his escape.

However, the Montenegrin acted as a

VOL. Ill 60

damper on our conversation. So long as
we were on level ground Harold felt safe,
for Bojo could not take aim at me ; but
whenever we came to the winding hill
roads the artist transferred himself to the
front seat and held his gun on the slant.
Bojo cared so little for this that he actually
quickened the trot of his horse so as to
bring himself more completely within shot.
His bearing showed a superb indifference.
We shall have to look out for him
just after we cross the frontier,' growled
Harold, ' for if he shot at us in Bulgaria
and then galloped over the border, we
should have to set our Foreign Office to
work before he could be touched. Thank
goodness there's a British agent at Sofia !
If Bojo rides so far with us I'll recommend
him to the police, and take care he goes
no farther.'

It was singular that although I was on
my way to join Prince Frederick Harold
and I scarcely spoke about him until we
reached Pirot. Why the Prince had
pushed on to Philippopolis and what his
plans might be we took no trouble to
discuss. At Pirot, however, we had a
lone evening to kill, and talked our affairs
over. Dinner was served us In a private
room by a pretty Hungarian chambermaid
in short red petticoats and top-boots,
and Harold waxed merry over a bottle of
Negotinos, a very good Serviann wine, of
which a great deal is drunk in Europe
under the name of Bordeaux. Pirot
suffered heavily from the bombardment
during the war between Bulgarians and
Servians. Half the town lay in ruins —
for modern bomb shells tear through these
old Turkish houses like cricket balls

through paper hoops, — and our hotel was
a new one, built on the site of one blown
to atoms, and stocked with cheap but
clean furniture from Vienna.

Our passports had been demanded from
us as soon as we arrived, and a gendarme
brought them to us while we were at table
with visas on them and a fee to pay.

I'm curious to know what sort of
passport Bojo Kleptovitch can have,' said
Harold ; ' perhaps this might be a good
opportunity for denouncing him to the
police as a bad character.'

But he did not pursue the subject.
Our chambermaid, who was hurt that we
made faces over a delicate dish of chicken
stewed with almonds, raisins, and garlic,
informed us that it was snowing, and that
we should have to start very early in the
morning if we meant to reach Sofia before

dusk. This sent us to bed betimes, and
when we rose in the morning it was pitch
dark, and still snowing hard. Our horses
were harnessed by lantern light, and our
coachman shook his head at the prospect
of doing sixty-five kilometres that day.
The wheels rolled slowly over the thick
carpet of snow in the inn-yard, and things
looked bad indeed until we debouched onto
the high road, which runs almost ina
straight line for ten English miles to
the frontier. Our team had to drag
stoutly, but we moved pretty well over
a track made by ox-carts which had
carried market vegetables to Pirot in the
night.

It's all very well so long as we are on
roads in the plain,' observed the driver,
turning round to warn us, ' but I don't
know how it will be in the stony mountain

paths, and In any case we can't take any
short cuts across field tracks.'

The snow was dropping in large light
flakes, and completely whitened our hats,
shoulders, and rug. If we lifted our faces
for a moment we had to lower them again
wet and blinded. Day was just breaking
as we crossed the frontier and pulled up at
a gendarmerie station, where our passports
had to be re-examined. Half a dozen tall
Pandours in uniforms of brown frieze with
green facings and boots up to their knees
formed the frontier guard. They were
much more military than their Serviann colleagues.
The Serviann soldiers have a
good deal of Austrian sauciness : the
Bulgarians, disciplined by a German commander,
remind one of Prussians. Taciturn
and deliberate, they expedited our
business in a few minutes, without asking

one superfluous question or charging a
centime, and we were off again. Up to
that time we had seen nothing of Bojo.

But as we were toiling up the first hill
on the way to the famous Dragoman Pass,
the tinkling of a horse-bell was borne to us,
and we descried our man riding at his usual
leisurely pace. We were now on the
ground made famous by Prince Alexander
of Battenberg's victories over the Servians.
In the awful-looking Dragoman Pass,
where the black cross rise to an Immense
height on both sides of a steep road, some
cuttings for the new railway had strewn
the path with big boulders of rock, and we
had to pick our course carefully. Beyond
this lay the Plain of Slivnltza, dotted with
mounds which are the graves of soldiers.

How the Bulgarian army ever made its
way across the plain, where every undulation

of ground was of advantage to the
Serviann batteries ; how it ever forced the
Dragoman Pass, which ought to have been
impregnable — are mysteries ; but these
battle-fields must ever remain intensely interesting
to soldiers, as proving that, in
spite of scientific gunnery and rifles which
kill at a mile, the pluck and ingenuity of a
general with inferior troops may still win
victories. It is said that the Servians'
plan of campaign was prepared for them in
Manna. Be this as it may, the plan did
not help them much.

Our driver, who knew the ground,
pointed to right and left, showing us where
Prince Alexander rode, where the Serviann
cavalry tried a charge against the East
Cornelian volunteers and were repulsed.
The snow had ceased falling, and the roads
on this side of the pass were better than

we had expected to find them, but the
little horses were tired of their laborious
ascents and descents, and walked with
lather on their sides and steam perspiring
from them. A boisterous wind was gambolling
over the plain, blowing up some of
the snow into curling clouds like the spray
of the sea, and now some strange sounds
began to greet our ears — a distant howling
and barking, growing louder and nearer.

Wolves ! ' exclaimed our driver, as his
four horses laid back their ears affrighted,
and broke, whipped, into a gallop.

In another moment there was a maddened
scurry of hoofs with bell-jangling
behind us, and Bojo Kleptovitch dashed
by. Harold and I, rising at the same
time, perceived that about a dozen large
wolves had been pursuing him and were
fifty yards behind us.

We fired four barrels of buckshot at
them, and three rolled over. The rest
yelled, fell back, and turned tall, but after
a moment's confusion rallied and came on.

Kneeling on the back seat of the carriage
with our barrels resting on the hood,
we had to steady ourselves with our left
hands, because of the fearful jolting of the
carriage, which flew over stones and ruts.
The Hungarian no longer hallooed. He
was leaning forward with his arms stretched
to their full length, guiding his horses ashe
could, but letting them go. A stumble
by one of them would have been the death
of us all. We knew that when we saw,
after firing half a dozen rounds from each
of our barrels, that the chase did not
slacken, and that the pack of wolves increased
every moment in numbers.

They were innumerable. A tawny mass

of them with white breasts and stiffened
tails, barking, snarling, howling, their
jaws open and their red tongues out,
they covered the road and crowded ina
widening mass over the plain. They
could have overtaken us in speed, but
these are not their tactics. Two columns
of them spread out on either side of us
like the branches of a horse shoe, our
carriage being in the hollow, as it were.
They were trying to head us (if they
could have done it they would have turned
and attacked), and to prevent this we had
to distribute our shots fast on our flanks
as well as to the rear. Joe fired with us
from the box, and every one of our shots
hit. But when a wolf fell yelping upon
his back it only stopped the scamper for a
moment. His famished comrades leaped
over him, giving tongue. Scores upon

scores of them rushed on, keeping well In
their lines in mysterious obedience to some
grizzled leader. Between us and them it
was a time race. If they could close their
circle we should be done for.

The road described a large curve, and
we saw Bojo Kleptovitch, who had galloped
in front of us, check his horse's
frantic pace and rein in, evidently afraid of
being cut off by the thickening column on
our right. But his horse reared, plunged,
and in the struggle between the two both
rolled over into the snow. Just then our
carriage came up, bounding and rocking
over the stones. Bojo had disengaged
himself, and stood in the road looking
round him with desperation. We could
not have stopped for man alive. But I
stretched out my hand from the carriage.
With a mountaineer's grip Bojo seized it,

vaulted, clutched me by the collar, and was
hoisted in.

That's just saved us,' panted Harold.
His horse will pay the piper.'

Our team swerved wildly at the sight of
Bojo's fallen horse, but dashed on. The
next moment the whole multitude of wolves
had fallen upon the poor brute's body.
From right and left they came rushing and
howling upon their prey, and this minute's
respite from the hot pursuit gave us the
lead, and brought us at a break-neck pace
into the village of Slivnitza.

It was a contrast to find ourselves the
same evening in the cheerful Union Club
of Sofia playing whist, after a cosy dinner,
with two British diplomatists.

You ask why Prince Frederick went to
Philippopolis } ' said one of these gentlemen

between two deals. ' I think it was
because he was soon tired of Sofia. He
was here twenty-four hours, and he must
have received more than two dozen
visits.'

Has M. Oiloff gone with him ? '

Yes ; M. Oiloff is showing him the
country ; but I think he has rather overdone
it.'

How's that ? '

Why, he appears to have given such a
fine account of Bulgaria that the Prince
has come to the conclusion that the
country can very well shift for itself.
From all I hear he is only travelling for
pleasure, and means to go home by way
of Constantinople, the Holy Land, and
Egypt.'

Warned by our experience with the
wolves, we tarried for a day in Sofia in

order to resume our journey with a Consul
who was going to PhihppopoHs with a
guard of four mounted Pandours. The
Bulgarian Government is always anxious
to prevent not only consuls but distinguished
strangers from being eaten up, so
we were informed that we also should have
an escort of troopers, who were carrying
despatches. Our party and the Consul's
would thus make a caravan.

Sofia is to Belgrade as Budapest to
Vienna. It has 'go.' In seven years of
Prince Alexander's spirited rule it made
more progress than Belgrade has achieved
in half a century.

The palace, the public gardens, the new
European quarter with trim streets and
well - built villas, recall some grand ducal
capital in Germany ; and withal there is an
air of life and freshness about the whole

place. The officers in Russian-cut uniforms
look smart. The police have their
wits about them. The officials of all
degrees are intelligent, business-like men,
and those in the higher posts surprise oneby
their fluency in speaking English,
French, or German — sometimes all three
languages. We looked into the Parliament
House and found an assembly much
better behaved than our House of Commons.
Although many of the members
are peasants, who club, four together, to
hire a room for the session, and do their
marketing for themselves (the honourable
member who acts as steward for the week
walking home with a cabbage under his
arm and a skewered piece of mutton in
his hands), they have the parliamentary)'
quality, which seems to have become obsolete
in some other countries, of holding

their tongues when they have nothing to
say.

The Consul in whose society we were to
travel represented Dacia, or some such
great power, and he was so overwhelmed
with his own importance that he loftily
begged us to excuse him if he could not
promise that his carriage should wait for
ours. We took him at his word, and our
team being much sweeter than his, overtook
him and gave him the go-by, to his horror
and indignation. Our journey was accomplished
without noteworthy incident, save
that at a little town called Ichtiman, which
has since become a railway junction, we
were fortunate enough to discover a tiny
whitewashed French hotel with a table
dote, kept for the accommodation of some
French and Belgian engineers who were
construction the new lines. An unmistakable.

Ill 61

able French chef, with a white cap and
apron, a waxed moustache, and a porte
grin, served us a dinner of bouilli, roast
chicken, salad, and fried potatoes, while
his amusing countrymen the engineers told
us all about themselves, explained to us
how the world should be governed, proposed
a toast a r Angleterre, and sang songs
at dessert "dk^oxiX amour ^siAg loir e. In the
midst of these festivities in walked the
Daciann Consul, an hour and a half behind
us, cold, hungry, cross, and fiercely scolding
a long-shanked secretary.

When this Consul heard that there was
no more boiled beef I think he threatened
the French landlord with the 'capitulations.'
The announcement that there
were no disengaged beds in the house,
accompanied by the suggestion of a clean
truss of straw in the stable, brought the

blood to his head, and set him screaming
and stamping in such an alarming fashion
that the Frenchman and his good-humoured
Belgian wife were glad to
give him up their own room, and so
purchase peace. These consuls strut
about Eastern countries like storks in a
poultry-yard, and there are vague but
terrible ideas afloat among the people as
to what even a Daciann consul might do
if — to use the scared chefs words — ' the
mustard mounted to his nose.'

It is pleasant to add that, the Consul's
dignity having been appeased, he made
friends with us, and schemed during the
rest of the evening in order that our carriages
and escorts might keep together on
the following day — that is, his first and
ours behind. The truth is, he wanted to
enter Philippopolis in proper state, conveying

to the population of that city the idea
that we were his suite, and that our four
Pandours and his four made but one guard
of honour allotted to him. There was no
reason for not gratifying this healthy ambition,
so things were ordered as he desired,
and he was so highly pleased that he became
reckless in his gifts of small coin to
ostler. A sum of no less than one shilling
and nine pence must have been distributed
by him in the course of a fifty miles' drive.
We had left Bojo Kleptovitch at
Slivnitza. He never thanked us for
saving him from the wolves, never spoke
to us, but shook himself and walked away
as soon as our carriage with its reeking
and exhausted horses had come to a standstill.
I must say I liked the fellow better
for his rugged ingratitude than if he had
slavered words of insincere contrition. I

am sure he would have met his fate
stoically in the road, without deigning to
implore our help, if I had not stretched
out a hand to him.

As Bojo did not show himself on the
road between Slivnitza and the capital, nor
on that between Sofia and Ichtiman, we
concluded that we had at last left him in
the lurch. But he reappeared like a ghost
as we crossed the broad plain by which
Philippopolis is approached on the Bulgarian
side.

It was a fine afternoon. A day which
had begun with clouds was closing in one
of those beautiful sunsets which are the
glory of Eastern lands, where so little else
is glorious. The broad Maria, not frozen
over, but rolling ice-blocks, flowed in a
lazy current to our left. Philippopolis,
enthroned on hills rising sheer from the

plain, shone before us like a great wealthy
and well-fortified city (for so it looks at a
distance), and all around the sky was
slashed with brilliant streaks of red, and
tracts of colour of a pale water green.
Our cavalcade was going slowly before the
final spurt into the town streets. Four
Pandours with mantles and slung carbines
rode in front, then came our delighted
Daciann Consul and his long-legged secretary,
then our carriage and the other four
Pandours with bearded faces and Astrachan
shapskas.

Harold stood up in the carriage to
admire the view, and exclaimed —

I'm hanged if that chap hasn't overtaken
us ! There he is on a new horse,
and a gang of mounted scamps with him.'

Through our Hungarian coachman acting
as interpreter, we asked the sergeant

of our escort who the men in Bojo's company
might be, to which, having turned in his
saddle to take a good look, he answered —

Macedonians. We are near to the
Rhodope Mountains. Those rascals come
over the frontier under pretence of buying
cattle, but they steal more than they purchase.
They're a bad lot. That man in
the middle, though, is a Montenegrin.'

That's Bojo,' said Harold ; and he
delivered a feeling little eulogy of our
friend, which the Hungarian translated to
the Bulgarian gendarme.

'All the Montenegrins are rogues,' said
the sergeant sententiously. ' They are at
the bottom of every piece of mischief which
goes on in this country — riots, revolutions,
and so forth. If I were the Government
I would hang every Montenegrin. Hullo!'

Hullo ! ' The cry was repeated by us

all, for a dashing little troop of three
equestrians — a lady, a gentleman, and a
servant in a brilliant blue costume, like
that which Bojo Kleptovitch wore on gala
days, cantered towards us over the snow.

A consular kavass I ' (body - servant)
ejaculated the Daciann Consul, much excited.
' A colleague has come out to meet
me. Stop all of you ! Stop ! '

But Prince Frederick and Isabel — for
they were the riders — passed the first
carriage with a glance and rode up to us.

How are you ? ' shouted the Prince in
cheery English. ' They telegraphed tome
from Sofia that you were coming, but
we thought you would never be here.
What, Harold Crowe too ? why, that's
capital. We shall have no end of fun.'

You have been nearly a week on your
way from Kronheim,' said Isabel, as I

alighted and took her hand, ' and we are
dying to hear news.'

Meredith has grown thinner,' cried the
Prince in high spirits as he shook hands
with Harold.

Yet the wolves thought him a tempting
morsel, sir,' laughed the artist. 'We
had a narrow escape, which will amuse you
when you hear of it.'

The Daciann Consul, however, felt mortally
offended at these irregular proceedings.


I say, sir,' he cried sharply to me, ' if
that is not one of my consular colleagues
who has stopped me in this way, I should
like to know who the d '

'Who the devil he is.^' I replied, finishing
his sentence for him. ' It's Prince
Frederick of Kronheim. Shall I ask permission
to present you ? '

While the Consul crawled, remorseful,
out of his carriage to make an obeisance
which brought his nose near to his waist,
our cavalcade had halted, so that Bojo
Kleptovitch and his Macedonian friends
came up. The Prince recognised Bojo,
but I had time to whisper a few words
explaining that the Montenegrin was in
disgrace, so that when Bojo drew himself
up and saluted with his hand to his fez,
the Prince did nothing more than lift his
hat coldly in acknowledgment.

Isabel, who was being favoured with
the salaams and compliments of the
Daciann Consul, had not noticed the
approach of Bojo, but as he passed
behind her she started, as by instinct,
reined her horse round, and gazed upon
him.

He saluted her as he had saluted the

Prince, and she bent her head, but whispered
to me —

Who is that man ? What a face he
has ! Why did he stare at us so ? '

Did he stare ? '

Yes, at least I thought he did, but it
may have been fancy.'

Yet she turned aofain and took another
long, startled look at the Montenegrin ashe
rode on.

We are enjoying and abusing the hospitality
of the British Consul-general,' said
Prince Frederick, as our party, minus the
Daciann Consul, arrived at a handsome villa
with a British escutcheon over the door.

He explained that there was no good
hotel in the city, and that the English
Consul-general had kindly placed this villa
at his disposal. A genial courteous gentleman
this Consul, an old Crimea Victoria
Cross officer, with more scars on his body
than decorations on his coat, a man who,
being knighted, caused one to marvel on

what principle the honour of knighthood is
bestowed in England. He was venerated
in Philippopolis, for it was he who, on the
treacherous deposition of Prince Alexander,
spurred on Colonel Mutkuroff to march
upon Sofia with a faithful Roumeliot regiment,
and saved the honour of the country
by overthrowing the government of the
rebel Zankoff.

The Consul-general being a bachelor
had spare rooms in plenty, and he had
been good enough to include me in his
invitation. ' Whether there's a spare
room for you, Mr. Crowe, I don't know,'
said the Prince, introducing us to our
gallant host ; but it turned out there was
a room for Harold too. We were soon
at home in the pleasant house, where the
sight of English newspapers and magazines
and five o'clock tea took our

thoughts far away from our recent adventures.


But Isabel was impatient to hear everything
that had happened to me. Before
she went to take off her habit, and before
I had changed my things, she drew me
into a window-seat, where I gave hera
circumstantial narrative. The Prince
meanwhile opened a packet of letters that
I had brought him from Dr. Grinzener.

The death of Prince Wolfgang was
too horrible !' said Isabel mournfully ; ' but
Prince Frederick could not have attended
the funeral. You have seen yourself what
travelling is in this country.'

'And what are your plans now?' I
asked.

Unchanged,' she answered. ' The
Prince has written to the King to say
that he cannot return to Kronheim for

the present. You know he has been very
badly treated and feels hurt ; it is only
natural that he should take a little time tolet
his resentment cool, and we cannot
blame him for telling the King, as he has
done, that he will not appear at Court so
long as Count Hochort is Prime Minister.
We are going on to Constantinople, and
then to Palestine.'

Are these plans approved by you ?'
Oh yes,' she exclaimed eagerly. ' I
have been so happy — so very happy, and
I would not for the world that any act of
mine should interrupt our present life.
Everything changes, nothing lasts, and
there must be an end to this life some day,
but it will not be from my doing.'

This meant that the honeymoon was
not yet waning. One had only to look at
the Prince, as he came up to his young

wife and tossed his bundle of letters playfully
into her lap, to see that he was still
in the heyday of his happiness. He was
full of health and gaiety — even these letters
from Grinzener had not depressed
him — and he said in an offhand way —

There's nothing in all these scribbles,
dear child. We have discussed the matter
through and through, and my mind won't
alter. Tzt seras Reine.'

Si Diet le veut,' she replied, with a
cheerful glance at him.

Ce que femme veut Diei petit,' he
answered lightly.

By and by we all sat down to a very
lively dinner. Our Consul-general was a
charming host, and I had never seen the
Prince and Isabel so merry. It was not
surprising that the Prince should affect no
great sorrow at his cousin's death, for the

two had only kept up the appearances of
friendship. As for Isabel, she took her
cue from her husband, and when he laughed
and joked she was free from care.

But I don't see M. Oiloff,' I said, looking
round the table.

No ; M. Oiloff has gone, and I suspect
he thinks me a trifler,' said the Prince,
amused. * The fact is he is too proud to
accept any money for his country unless I
can give him a million florins, which I
can't. I was obliged to say to him at
length : Bulgaria fm^a da se ; and we
parted. I must say, though, he made himself
very useful and agreeable as a travelling
companion.'

Bulgaria wants money,' observed the

Consul-general. * If Englishmen would

invest a little in our mines, vineyards, and

cornfields, instead of carrying their money
VOL. Ill 62

to South America, they would build up
this country like a strong wall against
Russia's advance southward.'

It's a fine country,' admitted the Prince;
but for all your kind hospitality we must
say good-bye to it. What is that place
which we are to visit tomorrow ?'

The Monastery of St. Kyriak.'

Yes ; we'll take our guns there, Meredith,'
said the Prince. ' It seems you
meet foxes, boars, and sometimes a bear
in these Rhodope Mountains — to say
nothing of wolves. But I suppose you
have had enough of them''

Our host suggested that there were
other excursions still to be made, but the
Prince shook his head.

No, thanks. The Princess and I are
pining for Constantinople, the ^gean, and
the Holy Land. The mere whistling of

the railway engine, when that solitary train
per day starts from the station near your
house, makes us fidgety. Do you know,
I never heard sweeter music than this
whistle the first time it sounded after we
had been travelling for days in carriages.
We are all children of our time, and in
this century we look upon the steam
engine as our best friend. What is the
horse beside it ? '

Next morning our host, suffering from
a bad cold, found he could not accompany
us to St. Kyriak ; so we formed a party of
six — that is, the Prince, Harold, and I, with
Joe, the Consul's servant or kavass, and
of course Isabel. Dressed in a warm walking
costume, with a sealskin jacket, toque,
and stout boots, Isabel was not afraid of
mountain climbing. We were to drive in
sledges to a village called Vinova, twelve

kilometres off and at the foot of the mountains,
and we were to take a luncheon
basket with us.

Just as the guns and hampers were
being packed in the sledges Bojo Klepto-
witch came to the consulate and asked to
speak with Prince Frederick. He was
shown up to the billiard-room, where the
Prince and I were knocking the balls
about while Isabel had gone to put on
her things. The Prince wished him to
speak in my presence, but this did not
suit Bojo, who insisted doggedly that he
must see the Prince alone. I thought the
Prince winced from this private interview
more than was comprehensible, seeing
that the Montenegrin carried no arms
while the Prince himself had a revolver
case hung to the belt of his Norfolk jacket.
But he did wince, until Bojo uttered a

few low - Spoken words which made him
change his mind.

Ill-naturedly, and still holding his billiard
cue, he walked into an adjoining room,
and the door closed. I soon heard the
Prince's voice raised in angry tones, then
there was a silence or at least some inaudible
conversation, which lasted a full
quarter of an hour. After this Bojo
marched out of the room with a flushed
face and defiant air, and the Prince
followed him ghastly pale.

I wish to goodness you had allowed
that scoundrel to be devoured by the
wolves,' he stammered. ' He has had the
audacity to threaten me.'

'What with?' anxiously asked Isabel,
who had just come in drawing on her
gloves.

He brought up the subject of poor

Tristan's death, and he said But no

matter. I've packed the hound about
his business.' The Prince seemed quite
unmanned. His hands trembled, and he
could scarcely button the furred overcoat
which Joe helped him to put on. He
only recovered his self-possession when
we were getting into the sledges. He
and Isabel entered one, Harold and I the
other. They were good sledges, painted
red, and each drawn by four ponies harnessed
abreast in the Russian style, with
bells all over them and scarlet horsehair
plumes hanging from whalebone arches
above their heads. The crisp air of a clear
morning, the blue sky, the exhilaration
of the fast smooth driving over the level
road, gradually brought the Prince's spirits
back, and Harold and I heard him and
Isabel laughing together, like a very

honeymoon couple, as they were, out fora
hoHday.

At Vinova we heated. Each of us
men took a gun ; and the two servants,
carrying the hamper between them, walked
on in front to apprise the Father Superior
of the monastery that he was to have
company to luncheon.

I don't know why we should be going
to this St. Kyriak's,' remarked the Prince
as we began our ascent, ' but they say it's
one of the sights of the place.'

Oh, the view must be lovely,' ejaculated
Isabel, pausing to look around her. 'See
how beautiful it is even from here ! And
then all those monks.'

But it appears there are no monks,'
laughed the Prince. ' The monastery was
built to hold three hundred of them in the
ages of faith, but in these sceptical times

the number has dwindled to two. The
place is used as a hotel during the
summer.'

'There's a chapel, I suppose,' said Isabel.

Oh yes, and relics and the tomb of a
saint, and apparitions if you pay for them
and give proper notice in advance.'

With that extraordinary faculty which
he had for dismissing troublesome subjects
from his mind, the Prince chattered as
though nothing had occurred to vex him
that day, and Isabel answered blithely asa
lark carolling. We met no game worth
a shot, and, after a not very toilsome
ascent, reached a plateau where the
monastery seemed to be close to us. It
formed an imposing mass of gravestone
structure on a neighbouring height, but
before we could attain it we had to
descend to a spur connecting the two

mountains and climb again. The whole
walk from Vinova occupied an hour and a
half; and when at length we approached
the convent portal we found Joe and the
kavasSy who had preceded us, looking
rather scared in the company of six as
evil - featured rascals as could be met
with. They were Macedonians wearing
the Greek fustanelle (plaited white petticoat),
and carried Winchester rifles, besides
pistols and yataghans in their sashes.

They stood in a line, saluting, to let us
pass, but when Father Kalinikos, the
Superior, hurried across the great quadrangle
of the monastery to greet us, he
appeared quite as much alarmed as our
servants. He was a handsome young man,
this monk, with a brown beard, long hair,
a black gown, and a cylindrical bonnet.
Unable to speak a word of any language

we understood, he told the kavass that the
Macedonians had begged him to give
them fifteen Turkish pounds and six clean
shirts — a request which scandalised him —
'for,' said he, 'such a thing had not
happened here for twenty years, and if
men of that sort come and bee it will
frighten our summer customers away.
However,' he added, with a reassured
glance at our guns, 'now they have seen
these gentlemen they will probably go
away.'

The quadrangle was an immense place
with three stories of cells or rooms and
wooden galleries running all round. In
the midst of the yard stood the ancient
chapel. The gallery of the lowermost
floor was like a cloister with thick wooden
pillars and a flagged pavement. Into a
large and sombre guest-chamber opening

on to this cloister Father Kalinikos led
us, and the servants had already spread
the table for luncheon. The Father
Superior had contributed a jar of honey
and a huge gourd-shaped bottle of red
wine to this feast.

Loitering by the open door while Isabel
was asking questions of Father Kalinikos
through the kavass, I saw that the Macedonians
had strolled into the yard, and
two of them, mounting to the third gallery,
took their stand by the rope of an open
wooden belfry. This was a hint to Father
Kalinikos that he need not think of ringing
the bell to summon assistance from
any village in the valley. But in truth
the good man had no such thoughts.
His establishment consisted of an asked
serving monk, a Greek cook, and an old
woman, the cook's wife, who acted as

scullion. It would have been a sorry job
to storm the belfry with such forces. The
Father had tried a moral lecture upon
the Macedonians, but it had been in vain,
so his only protection against their mendicancy
was to be that which we, his armed
guests, might afford him.

Either because the kavass was comforted
by our presence, or because he
considered it seemly to hide his apprehensions,
he began to talk coolly of the
Macedonians, as though our encountering
such people was an ordinary incident ina
Cornelian excursion. Isabel had nota
suspicion that the men might be brigands.
The Prince also, whatever he may have
thought, maintained his composure, and
we sat down to luncheon after a little
banter with Father Kalinikos about the
fifteen pounds and the six clean shirts.

But as our repast was drawing to an end
the Father Superior, who had left the
room, returned and beckoned the kavass
to the door. Then the kavass came with
a troubled face and summoned me. I
caught up my gun and went out.

'What is it?' said Isabel, but I let the
door close without answering her.

A half-formed presentiment was fulfilled
when I beheld Bojo Kleptovitch standing
in the yard with four of the Macedonians
behind him.

Come down,' he said peremptorily,
making a sign with his rifle.

I am very well here,' I answered, holding
my own gun ready to fire. The cloister
was about six feet above the level of the
quadrangle, and I placed myself a yard
behind one of the pillars, which thus
covered me.

You are all in my power,' cried Bojo
in a braggart tone. ' I mean to take
Prince Frederick and the young woman
away and ask a million francs' ransom for
them. As for you, you saved my life, so
I won't kill you like a dog, but we'll

fight;

'Thank you; I'll choose my own time
for that.'

You'll fight or have your throat cut,'
shouted the Montenegrin, gesticulating.
You gave me a kick. Come down, we'll
each take a yataghan, and I'll give you
fair play.'

Go and be hanged ! ' was my answer.
He stood glaring, and waved his hand

to the men behind him, one of whom crept
swiftly out of the rank and raised his rifle
to get a shot at me sideways. But my
finger was on the trigger of my gun, and

as the man's bullet crashed upon an angle
of the pillar, making a splinter fly, one
of my barrels went off and felled him
upon his face. The contents of the other
barrel were lodged in the side of a second
brigand, who dropped on all fours on to
the snow, yelling.

The firing instantly brought out the
Prince, with Harold, Joe, and Isabel, and
half a dozen shots exploded at once without
my knowing whence they came. But
the two other brigands fell, and Bojo was
alone upstanding.

Go back into the room!' I shouted to
Isabel, as I saw the man lift a revolver.

The Prince and Harold were turning
their attention to the two men in the belfry,
who were now scampering fast down the
wooden stairs. One of them, hit in the
head, dropped his gun, rolled over and over

with a fearful noise, clutched ineffectually
at the balusters and tumbled through the
open stairway into the yard. My own
aim was for Bojo. The flash of his
revolver and of my reloaded gun were
simultaneous. Tossing his arms aloft he
staggered forward and lay motionless. At
that moment we were all so thickly enveloped
In smoke that I could not see.
But I heard a moan behind me, and stepping
aside to look for Isabel, perceived
her prostrate body on the flagstones.

She lay without movement, and when
I stooped to lift her head, it fell back on
my arm, while her eyes slowly closed. A
thin stream of blood trickled over her face
from a wound in the temple.

The passionate entreaties of her husband,
who called her his 'wife,' his
darling,' could not draw a sign of life

from her. We carried her into the chapel,
and she lay so placid in her last sleep
that I doubted whether this sudden call
from all ambitious strivings was really a
calamity. I thought of the words which
she had spoken to me the day before —

Everything changes, nothing lasts.
There must be an end of this life, but it
shall not be from my doing.'

POSTCRIPT

I SOMETIMES receive a letter from Father
Kalinikos, in which he tells me that he
is taking care of the flowers that have
been planted around Isabel's grave. She
was buried in the grounds of the monastery,
and during the summer that followed

her death crowds of people flocked to St.
VOL. in 63

Kyriak to see the tomb of the beautiful
English Princess,' about whom so much
was written and said that her Hfe's story
became a legend. A gravestone of white
marble from Athens is to be laid over her
resting-place, and Father Kalinikos writes
to me about it, because there is nobody
else who takes an interest in the subject.

Prince Frederick, from all I hear, will
soon be King of Kronheim, and he is
engaged to be married to the Princess
Blanche. Dr. Grinzener has become
Prime Minister, and King Franz only
governs the country nominally — all State
affairs being in the hands of his heir-presumptive,
who, by all accounts, differs in
much from the Prince Frederick whom I
served.

I am no longer in his service, for my
Irish tenants one day good-naturedly

resolved that they would pay me some
rent, and on the strength of this Connie
Davenant and I were married. It is at my
wife's suggestion that I have written this
book ; and the little woman, as she read
the pages, would sometimes draw close tome
and ask why princes have such a peck
of trouble, why they, in their seemingly
enviable station, have so much to bear
and to struggle for ? And with a pitying
word she has often compared their lot
with ours in our peaceful English home.

THE END

Printed by R. & R. Clark, Edinburgh

'.i.iir-'.fr';.-; ] • ;■ V* ces ' .|'V- ■--V- .

v:: :5Hl:#;r^/"v-v^•■K^■v■
vKcplt;^&i'^.;-:,>>■^■o
111- "^ W^^ -

v.;.

,1 .T.;;
