^^^^^

?tS2ij,<S3E

^^^*

C:^^

^^^K^^

?^;^^

^

^;f'$^y^ p^'

f^*^

i^'

^':,pfl^«^^^

3c' A.-^i""

*.s^l

«^?5^^!

•s*:^&,

k/

■,v^'

LI B R.ARY

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS


vel

BY

F. W. ROBINSON

AUTHOR OF

GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY,"
"NO CHURCH,

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. L

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

BOOK THE FIRST.

IN A DERBYSHIRE VILLAGE.

I. ' Name Unknown ' 3

11. Daniel Overdown 14

III. A Late Arrival 30

IV. Mr. OVERDOWNDOES not make HIMSELF USEFUL 35

V. The Better Half 47

VI. Sent for 64

VII. Instructions 82

VIII. Two Cuttings from the Newspapers . 87

BOOK THE SECOND.

GOOD SAMARITANS.

I. Mrs. Dangerfield at Home . 91

II. A Message from the Dead 100

III. Further Particulars lin

THE SriSTRESS OF Overcome.

I. Coming Back to the World

II. Still Curious

in. Following On . .

IV. An Early Visit






IN A DERBYSHIRE VILLAGE.

i

VOL. I.

CHAPTER I.

NAME UNKNOWN.'

The accident had happened in an out-of-the-way
part of the fair county of Derby, with no
one to blame but a sleepy signalman. It had
not been a ' great ' accident, and a ten-line
paragraph in the Birmingham and daily newspapers
was considered sufficient for the general
public. The London papers, for ever brimming
over with accidents to life and limb, general
property and man's fair fame, took no heed of a
collision where there were only two passengers
seriously injured, and fourteen but moderately
contused, who were sent home, rather jolly than

otherwise, by the next hip-train. Of the two
seriously injured, the papers chronicled a third-class
passenger, one Daniel Overdown, of Prosser
Street, Birmingham, mechanic ; and a first-class
passenger, name unknown, and left, like a parcel
to be called for, at the 'AVhite Swan,' in the
village, by anyone whom it might eventually
concern.

Three days had passed since poor humanity
had run into minerals and got the worst of it,,
and it seemed to concern nobody that a man
sick, and shaken unto death, should be lying like
a lor at the ' White Swan.' The landlord was
not nervous about him ; there were a gold watch
and chain worth fifty pounds, that would defray
all expenses, funeral and otherwise ; and heaven
and the jewellers only knew the value of the
diamond pin which, shimmering still in its black
satin stock, rested in the left hand top drawer of
the wainscot chest in the best bed-room. The
landlord had turned the key upon it for precaution's
sake, and everybody had forgotten it save
that worthy gentleman.

The ' White Swan ' was not a convenient hostelry

for a man to lie helpless iu, but it had been
Hobson's choice after the smash had occm-red,
and there were forty good miles across country
between the village of Gravesly and the nearest
hospital. The two men seriously hurt were
earned down the valley by those lucky passengers
who had escaped scot-free, Daniel Overdo wn
being left at the first cottage, and the stranger,
well-to-do, taken to the ' White Swan,' a rough
little inn, planted in the heart of a quarryman's
settlement, where tourists came not, and business
was only brisk on Saturday evenings after pay-time.
There had been a five-miles ride down the
valley in search of a doctor, who arrived some
minutes after a second medical man and his
assistant had turned-up by special train along
with two engineers and the break-down gang.

Whilst the line was being cleared and the
passengers accommodated with fresh carriages,
the doctor ad his assistant, warned of pressing
cases, had descended into the village, where a
few scared women where talking of the accident,
and of the poor fellows dio lead been brought
for them to nurse. Here ensued the meeting

of the doctors, the inspection of the wounded, a
Hurried consultation, and the whipping-off of
the right leg below the knee from the unlucky
gentleman whom nobody knew. Here was life
at stake, and minutes precious, and a serious
responsibility hanging over the heads of a respectable
railway company. The sufferer, when
he was conscious — which was not often the case
during the first foar-and- twenty hours — had
been asked who he Alas and where he lived, and
had shaken his head energetically, as if he did not
knoAv, or did not care, and was altogether too
excited to be harassed by constant questioning.
As to Daniel Overdown, whose name and address
had been found in full in his pocket-book,
in his hat, on his collar, and on the left-hand tail
of his shirt, he was past all excitement, and as
still as a stone by this time ; and there was much,
attention necessary to set his head right, and
bring him back to the life which the collision had
nearly crushed out of him.

Hence the taro serious cases in the village of
Gravesly, and three days' rest in Derbyshire, leaving
the rich man and the poor one dependant on

strangers' assistance, and the railway company's
supervision. 'Prostrate and helpless,' groaned
forth the man at the ' Swan ;' ' flat as a
flounder,' said Daniel Overdown, whom a host
of friends and acquaintances from Birmingham
had already come to see, disregarding time and
money in their interest for his safety.

It was a strange position — a vivid contrast
that was subject-matter for much thought — this
isolation of the rich man from all kith and kin,
and the strong muster of friends round the bedside
of the working man. Dives left to himself,
without a soul to care apparently whether he
lived or died ; and Lazarus, a head-centre, who
brought a small army of humble folk to inquire
after his health, and to offer its assistance in anyway
that might chance to be of value. In their
separate ways, both men were riddles to the
outer world ; the extra degree of interest and
attention which a mechanic attracted to himself
on one side, and the complete isolation on the
other of one whose wealth might at least have
purchased a semblance of respect for his gi-ave
affliction.

Still it was the unknown's obstinacy which
probably kept friends away, rather than lack of
sympathy from those who owed him fealty. That
he had not communicated with his friends, and
no one seemed to have missed him, might be
explained by more reasons than that of general
apathy, if the thin, gaunt man in the bed would
only open his grey lips to soh^e the mystery he
had created.

Three days after the accident he was conscious,
terribly conscious that he was in a critical condition,
that he had lost part of his right limb, that
he might not get over the shock to his system,
and that he was alone there, with a strange
woman for nurse. He was very miserable, as
well as obstinate ; he had not taken his accident
calmly, or the inevitable result with philosophy ;
it was his excitement, now demonstrative, and
now suppressed, which kept him back, and from
which he suffered. The mind fought against him
as well as the body, and it was going hard with
his struggle for life and strength — the odds
against the silent man's salvation.

There were eve sovereigns in his pockets, and

a card-case that contained only this railway
ticket — first-class return from Birmingham to
Culverley ; and the only marks upon his fine
linen were a D in German text. There was no
clue to his identity, and he would not osier one
himself, when the doctors became anxious, and
a few outsiders, of whom more anon, grew
curious.

Don't worry me,' he murmured to the medical
man whom the railway directors had sent,
with their compliments, day after day ; 'there is
plenty of time.'

'Your friends?'

They can wait. Everybody can wait,' he
added, wearily.

But it is my duty to warn you again that
you are in a critical condition.'

Do you mean I shall die V asked the man,
almost fiercely.

No, I do not say that,' answered the doctor,
cautiously.

He had not much hope of him, but ho would
not pledge his word, or wholly dishearten his
patient.

'That I shall live?'

With care, and ease to your mind, you maybe
spared — possibly.'

The symptoms are not all against me V

'Not all.'

Thank God for it,' he cried, and then his
lips quivered, and he tossed his arms strangely
about his head, and beat the palms of his hands
nervously upon the patchwork coverlet.

The doctor gave him drugs, and subdued him
into temporary lethargy ; and then the rector of
a little village, five miles further inland, came to
disturb him next day, having heard the news,
and thinking, good, confident old man, that here
was a case in which he might be of more service
than the doctor. •

The priest failed as well as the physician.
The wounded man would have no father-confessor,
or put his trust in anyone beyond himself.
He was a trifle calmer that morning, and
answered for a while evasively.

His friends were not anxious about him, he
knew ; they did not know where he was, and
they believed in his safety. Where was the

necessity to alarm them — to distress them?

But they have a right to know the truth

The truth is better kept away from them,'
said the patient, between his set teeth.

How can you tell that V

I am sure of it.'

But, sir, have you not a wife, or sons, or
daughters, who are perplexed by your absence,
distressed in mind concerning it, and to whom
even such sad news as your accident would bea
relief from suspense V

There is no one in suspense about me ; I
have told you so already,' he cried, querulously.

It seems impossible that this should be so ;
and, if you will rely on me, I, a minister of the
Gospel, will break the news carefully to those
with whom you may wish me to communicate.'

The man closed his lips and shut his eyes,
and would not reply by another word to his
visitor.

There was no more for the minister to do,
save to return home wondering at the motive
for this rigid silence. Presently delirium set in
again, and the sufferer raved of many things

and may people, but there was no clue to his
identity throughout, and the doctors thought
more of saving his life than of getting at his
secret. Only once the man said, very clearly
and distinctly, ' My poor Aggie ;' and they Who
nursed him remembered it, and commented
upon it later in the day.

Five or six days after the accident, an individual,
sent by the railway directors, peered
round the door whilst the patient lay sleeping,
looked at him attentively, and went away
again, after asking many questions of the host
of the ' Swan,' and taking a cursory inspection
of the watch and wardrobe of the unknown,
the stock and diamond pin excepted, which the
landlord forgot to show him.

Don't know him ; can't see anything in it,'
said the detective, ' but will make inquiries.'

Which inquiries never came to anything, sofar
as the writer of this narrative is aware.

The man with the unknown name was of a
strong constitution, and fought hard for life —
fought his way through fever and madness to
an intense prostration, where there appeared

to be, however, a little chance for his recovery.
No one harassed him or questioned him now •
his editors were the doctors, his only companion
a smart, middle-aged woman, more mechanical
than inquisitive, and who was his nurse, duly
certificated from London, and paid by the railway
company for her services. When a fortnight
had passed, the newspapers had forgotten
the accident; there had been many glorious
calamities in leader type since then, and one
man sick at Gravesly was nothing to the public
which paid its money for fresh news, and disliked
vain repetitions. He was very ill, and
quite forgotten. Even the quarrymen in the
Derbyshire village had got used to his presence,
and ceased to talk about him. They thoughtless
of him than of Daniel Overdone, still suffering
internally, and not able to be moved, but
surfeited with friends and Ind inquiries from
the busy toy-shop of the world some few score
miles away.

CHAPTER 11.

DANIEL Overgrown.

The man at the ' Swan ' was well enough at
last to allow of the bedstead being moved
towards the window, to the frame of which
he was able to cling, and thereby raise himself.
There was nothing familiar in the landscape
that met his gaze, nothing inspiriting or solacing
to him in the green valley lying in the lap
of the Derbyshire tors.

It was a prison-house, at which he groaned ;
the rugged, white stone walls shut him in along
with the trees and cottages, and the brawling
stream at their base, and there was no escape
for him. All very picturesque, but very far
from home and from those who might be wondering

now where lie was, and why he had not
written. For time had gone on three weeks,
and he had sent no news — and would send no
news while he lay there.

He could not explain to anyone at home what
mischance had led him in this direction — he
could never explain it — it was beyond his courage
as was the ascent to the hill-top by that
thin hue of rugged path, down which a shepherd's
boy seemed eternally scrambling. Let
them wonder for a short while longer till he
returned, with a strange lie to account for his
absence, and the grave accident which had
made a cripple of him. There was that big
fiction to study, and, as he looked up at the
blue sky above the hills, it was perplexity rather
than gratitude for his escape that gave an
earnest expression to his pain-racked face. He
was a man of some two-and-forty years of age,
who had been handsome in his youth, and who
retained some of his good looks till that day —
a thin-faced man, with features sharp cut and
clear, and stamped with a refinement born of
high birth, or hard study, or both. He wore

neither beard, whiskers, nor moustache, and
had it not been for his illness, which had aged
and lined him, would have looked younger than
his years. Even in his night-shirt, with his long
neck craning over the window-sill, there was
something of ' the swell ' about him — a stand-fish
kind of man, with whom one would not
care to joke on an early acquaintance, or slap
on the back and call ' old fellow,' or abbreviate
his Christian name, or twist it into slang after
the fashion of these free and easy times.

All the excitement that he had shown at an
earlier period of his stay at the ' ^Yhite Swan,'
and which may have been part of his malady
rather than of his character, had disappeared,
and was replaced by a cool, if somewhat forced,
imperturbability. He was grave and polite,
and even grateful to his doctors, but there was
no lowering of the veil before his life ; on the
contrary, the same studied intention of keeping
himself and his antecedents in the shadow. He
was anxious to read the newspapers, and still
more anxious to know when he would be considered
strong enough to leave ; to be caned

on a litter down the valley even, and placed
in a first-class carnage, if the company would
stop the train for him en route — anything, so
that he could be free of the position to which
his accident had reduced him. By common
consent, as it were, he had taken, and been
called by, the name of Welby ; but nobody
believed in the name, and he did not assume
the manner of one who behoved in it himself.

He was not strong enough to quit his room
when it was announced one early evening, by
the landlord of the * White Swan,' that a person
below stairs was anxious to see him. Mr. Welby
we will call him by the name that he has
adopted, for the nonce — elevated his eyebrows,
and stared at his host.

To see me V said Mr. Welby, as if taking
time to consider the position, whilst he repeated
slowly the landlord's message.

Yes, sir ; for a few minutes.'

'Did he ask for me in particular? — did he
mention my name V

He didn't mention any particular name, sir,*
replied the landlord, with an objectionable grin

VOL. I.

-extending over his broad, red face ; ' he said
the gentleman upstairs who had met with the
accident.'

I decline to see him.'

I thought you would.'

Why?' was the quick inquiry.

Well, sir, I thought it was a bit rude of the
young fellow — forcing like — just because you
wish to keep yourself to yourself.'

Is this man very anxious to see me V asked
Mr. Welby, with more interest.

I should say he was,' replied the landlord,
deliberately.

Does he pretend to know me ? Where does
he come from ? What kind of man is he ?
What is his name ? '

The host of the * White Swan ' answered the
last question first.

His name is Overdo wn, sir. He's the young
man who was hurt at the same time as yourself,
and was brought down the Grey Tor Vale to
Skemmick's cottage.'

Oh ! that man,' said Mr. Welby, thoughtfully.
He is well enough to get about then V

< Yes.'

To go away V

Yes, I believe so.'

'Lucky fellow!' added Mr. Welby, With a
sigh.

He lay at the open window so still and silent
after this, that the landlord took it as a hint the
subject was dismissed, and that Mr. Overdo wn
might be dismissed also ; but, when he was
opening the door to depart, Mr. Welby said,
quickly and sharply,

Stay !'

The ' White Swan ' came to a full stop again.

One moment, Mr. Giles.'

All right, sir.'

1 have been thinking,' he said, slowly, ' that
I will see this Mr. — Mr. — whatever his name
may be. He is a fellow-sufferer, and we have
both been martyrs to gross carelessness. He is
the man whom I have seen drawn in a Bath-chair
down the valley there V

< That's him,' said the landlord, emphatically.
Show him upstairs.'

Yes, sir.'

c2

Mr. Giles retired; and Mr. Welby drew the
dressing-gown, which he had ordered to be
purchased for him, more closely round his spare
form, and put himself somewhat into attitude,
more as if by habit than with any design to
impress his coming visitor. One could almost
imagine Mr. Welby had been in the habit of
receiving deputations, and the first Avave of his
thin, white hand in the direction of a chair, as
Mr. Daniel Overdown entered the room, would
have added to the idea in the mind of an
observant man.

Mr. Overdown was still looking white and ill,
and the extreme blackness of his hair and eyes
threw the pallor of his countenance into stronger
relief than had he been a fairer man. He was a
dapper little fellow of five feet five, and of
three-and-twenty years of age, with a quick,
brisk step of his own that his railway shaking-ought
to have taken out of him. He came into
the room like a man ready to receive an order,
or measure something ofi"-hand, and his shai-p
glance round the apartment and at the invalid
told of a character which was hardly satisfied

with itself until it had grown familiar with
^ surroundings.' There was an ease about Mr.
Over down's manner also that was striking in a
man of his class, and dressed as he was, in a
smeary suit of fustian, patent to factory life and
labour. It was not the fussy obtrusiveness of a
man ill-appease, and endeavouring to mask his
nervousness by an air of self-assumption, but a
demeanour that was natural, and which did not
seem likely to be readily overawed or subdued.
He was self-possessed, but not insolent, and he
waited respectfully enough for Mr. Welby to
open the conversation.

You have expressed a wish to see me,' said
Mr. Welby at last.

Well, for the matter of that, sir, I have seen
you already,' was the brisk answer.

'Indeed! Where?'

Looking from that window down the valley,
when my mates came to take a turn with the
Bath-chair last Saturday and Sunday ; looking
as miserable, too, I was inclined to fancy, as
if you were sorry I had got the start of you.'

He laughed pleasantly at this, but Mr. Welby

only regarded him gravely in return. He was
not well enough just then to appreciate a
joke.

I was miserable,' he said, however ; ' it is hard
I am the last to recover.'

Somebody must be the last,' returned Over-down.
' I don't think that that idea would have
entered my head, had I been in your place. But
there's no telling human native, that's my theory,
sir ; there's no making any man or woman out
completely — no making one's self out. There's
a cobweb always in some dark corner or other,
bustle about as we may.'

Mr. Welby stared at this remark, launched at
him, as it were, and his face must have sho"UTL
that he disliked it, for Mr. Overdown said,
quickly,

You Will excuse that little bit of the shop,
sir ; but I am a man with a habit of going it
generally for the improvement of my species,
after my worthy stepfather's pattern, though I
don't agree with him, mind you. You know my
stepfather, I daresay?'

It is not likely.'

Not Dobson the delegate ? Why, he's been
locked up half-a-dozen times, and proud he is of
it, too. He has done a mighty deal of good in
his day — and a mighty deal of harm,' he added,
drily.

The name is familiar to me — from the newspapers,
I suppose.'

Most likely — when he's not in prison you'll
find him in the papers. He's getting queer
now, and isn't half so bright as he used to be,
poor old boy. But I have not come to bother
you about family matters he added, as Mr.
Welby put one hand to his forehead, as though
his head ached.

You talk very rapidly,' said Mr. Welby, half
apologetically, 'and I have not been used to
conversation lately.'

I am sorry,' said the other. ' I ought^to have
been more careful, considering my friends came
down in droves to see me, and talked me clean
off my head in twenty-four hours, after our spill.
But healthy people have no consideration for
sick ones. That's another of my theories, that
in ninety-nine men out of a hundred there isn't

but you don't care whether there isn't or is
just now, do you V

I can't say I follow you,' said Mr. AVelby,
wearily. ' Will you excuse my lying down ? I
am not as strong as I thought I was.'

I am talking you silly ; that's like me,' the
man muttered, in self-disparagement. ' Let me
help you V

With a care that reminded Mr. Welby of his certificated
nurse downstairs, the young man shifted
the pillows of the sufferer, moved him with
gentle, but strong arms, rendered him altogether
more comfortable.

The fact is, I am so glad to get back to
Birmingham, to work, and to Daddy Dobson,
who's down with the gout — and a devil to manage
when he is gouty — and to my Saturday discussions,
and all that kind of thing, that I am as
talkative as an old woman, and have as little
thought for others as that lump of spar has
upon the mantel-piece. Excuse me — I think
I mean well, but am plaguey rough at times.
Want of cultivation, this he added, by way of
explanation.

May I ask if you have any motive in calling
upon me, Mr. Overclown V inquired Mr. Welby,
politely.

It has not appeared yet, has it V was the sly
rejoinder.

'No.'

I have a heap of reasons, but I must begin
again at full length, if you wish to know them
all.'

I don't think I can bear much more,' said
Mr. Welby, feebly.

The young man overpowered him by his
superior health, and beat down all desire to
snub him, or quell his insufferable loquacity.
Mr. Welby realised how weak he was now, for
he was a man grim and deterrent, when his ill
moods were uppermost, and people who bored
him came in his way. Not that he disliked this
young man, take him altogether, although his
recovery from the accident annoyed him and
was an indirect affront to him. God knows
how much longer he was to be tied to that
wretched room, and that outlook at the
valley and the great grey hills, and the

•

eternal isolation which accompanied them.
He should never see an English hillside or
one of its fair valleys again without realising
the bitterness of his terrible incapacity.

I called to say good-bye to a man who was
smashed up With me,' said Mr. Overdown ; ' and
to ask you if I can be of any service in Birmingham.'


I do not live in Birmingham.'

You come to Birmingham now and then,
though ?'

How do you know V

I have seen you in the streets. Once you
called at my governor's factory — Sedgwick's
Small Arms. I remember your face perfectly.'

Mr. Welby winced. What an objectionable
memory this man had ; what evil genius had led
him to ask him into his room ?

It must have been years ago,' he muttered.

Yes ; five or six years, perhaps. There was
a lady with you — very tall, and dark, and handsome
; and Mr. Edgewick went round the factory
With you both. Old Edgewick, not the
young one.'

Thank you,' said Mr. Welby, in reply to his
visitor's past offer of assistance. ' I am obliged
by your consideration for me, but the greatest
kindness is to allow me to get well by
myself.'

Yes ; that's the strange part of it,' remarked
Mr. Overdown, ' and that is why I take the
liberty of saying you can't get well after any
such fashion.'

Can't get well ! Great heaven, man,' he
exclaimed, testily, ' I am getting well rapidly.'

You want friends here. A man in distress
can't get on without friends.' ^

I haven't any,' was the bitter answer.

Oh, I don't believe that.'

I haven't a friend I wish to see. Good
evening, Mr. — Mr. Overdown. I thank you for
calling.'

Don't mention it. Good evening. I wish
you better, sir.'

He went with his brisk step to the door and
paused again.

Of course, I don't care about your reasons
for hiding ' he began.

Hiding !' was the indignant ejaculation of
the invalid.

I am not very curious in that way, and other
folk's secrets don't trouble me much,' he continued
; ' but still I can't help feeling I might
be of use here, and I should like to be of use.
Surely there is somebody to whom you would
be glad to send a word.'

Mr. Welby compressed his lips. This was the
old torturing business over again, by stupid
people who meant well, but could never fathom
to the depth of a secret with which he had been
determined to die — with which he had thought
it best to die, being an inflexible being in his
way.

'Thank you, no,' said Mr. Welby. 'Good
evening.'

I leave some time tomorrow for the Culver-ley
station, in Skemmick's pig-cart, and shall
take the first train to Birmingham, passing by
this valley without another upset, I hope, ugly
as the curve is round the base of that confounded
quarry. You were going to Culverley when
the accident happened ; but is there no one
worth sending a word to now V

No one,' said Mr. Welby, in a deep voice.

If there had been, I '

For God's sake don't kill me with your pertinacity,'
raved forth the man at last ; ' you see
I do not require your assistance. I know I am
ungrateful,' he added, in a weaker voice, and
with the instinctive feeling of a gentleman that
he had given unnecessary offence in return fora
proffered kindness ; * but I shall be well
enough soon to manage my own affairs.'

I hope so, sir, with all my heart.'

I'm sure of it — almost.'

'And if not quite as sure tomorrow — and
before I go — why, you have only to send down
a word to me at Skemmick's. And I'll come
on, sir, sharp.'

Thank you— very much.'

And so good-night to you

Good-night.'

CHAPTER III.

A LATE ARRIVAL.

Thus the two men parted, and Daniel Over-down
went slowly out of the inn, pondering
over the mystery of Mr. Wei by 's life. He
smoked a pipe over the problem as he walked
along the valley, where the shadows of night
were gathering together and stealing up the
sides of the giant tors, whose overlapping brows
of granite stood out, clear and sharp, against the
deep blue of the sky above them.

I suppose there's a woman at the bottom of
it,' Daniel Overdown said, as he turned back
towards Mr. Skemmick's cottage, * and that's
his look out, not mine. Always a woman at
the bottom of every trouble under the sun, some
people say.'

He was not so strong as he had bargained for
for he found that he had ventured too far along
the valley, and was unable to get back without a
rest. He sat down on the bank with his legs
dangling over the stream, which swift, nois}'-,
and turgid rushed past him in endless wrath
with the obstacles in its way — a river discontented
for ever. He refilled, lighted, and smoked
another pipe, and thought of his own affairs now
in lieu of those of the gentleman at the ' White
Swan ' — of his little house in one of the grimiest
streets of Birmingham, of his work next week,
of his busy daily life, of his life apart from
labour, the leisure hours Which he devoted, ashe
thought, to the improvement of men less
clever than himself, of his whole career which,
clear as the day, most people knew, of his ambitions
which, dark as the on-coming night, no
one dreamed save himself, and which were only
dreams. He thought away every scrap of daylight,
and, when he rose to proceed the rest of
his journey to Skemmick's, it was under a sky
blazing with a host of stars.

When he was in the shadowy village wliero

the lights were, the sign of the ' White Swan '
reminded him of his old fellow-passenger, and
with his gaze directed to the window, closed
and curtained for the night, he muttered again,

Yes ; I should say there's a woman at the
bottom of it, if we could only find out, or cared
to take the trouble to find out.'

He had not been a nervous man before the
accident — on the contrary, very self-possessed
and coo], and a trifle opinionated — but he gave
a sideway jump as he became aware of a two-horse
equipage standing before the door of the
White Swan.' There was so little light in the
village, which boasted not of gas in so rural a
district, that at first sight he fancied it was a
hearse and two black horses, and that Mr. AVelby
had died suddenly, and been as suddenly fetched
by an undertaker of remarkable promptitude.
When he had recovered himself, he became
aware that it was simply a post-chaise which
had scared him, with a postilion standing at the
horses' heads, and the landlord standing by the
side of the postilion.

Here — hi ! Mr. Overdown,' called forth the

landlord, ' you are wanted down at Skemmick's.'

Who wants mew

The lady who came in this.'

To see him f inquired Mr. Overdown, with a
gesture of his hand in the direction of the upstairs
window.

Yes, that's it. When she heard he was
asleep, and that you had been with him half
an hour ago, she said she would see you first,
and went off in a hurry to Skemmick's.'

Oh ! indeed.'

Mr. Overdown proceeded on his journey. At
the end of the village, or the beginning of it,
according to which way one looked at this small
settlement, was the one-storied stone house of
Mr. Skemmick, quarryman ; and hither the
man from Birmingham proceeded, opening the
door by means of a primitive latch from the outside,
and stepping at once, without any ceremony
of a passage, into a red-tiled front
parlour.

Mr. and Mrs. Skemmick, a rosy-faced young
couple, were there as usual, and two little
Skemmicks, twin boys, who were only awed by

VOL. I. D

a stranger's presence from making a dash at Mr.
Overdown's legs at the first moment of his
arrival, and a tall and stately lady, very white
and wan, whose heavy, black-silk dress was forever
afterwards to Mrs. Skemmick a thing of
wonder and beauty and cost. Stiff as a turnpike
post, it was.

Here's Mr. Overdown, min, as I was bespeaking
to you about said Mrs. Skemmick, by way
of introduction.

'This is the woman he didn't want to see,'
muttered Mr. Overdown, to himself, as he
took off his cap, and made his best bow to the
lady.

CHAPTER IV.

MR. Overgrown DOES NOT MAKE HIMSELF USEFUL.

A CAPITAL memory for faces had Daniel Over-clown.
Some men are blessed, or afflicted, by
this gift to a remarkable extent, and Mr. Over-down
was one of them. He remembered the
lady at once ; she it was who had accompanied
*Mr. AVelby' over Edgewick's Small Arms
Factory some five or six years since, the tall,
dark lady, of whom he had spoken to the
invalid at the ' White Swan.' He should have
known her anywhere ; first, by her height,
which was five feet eight, at least ; secondly,
by her pale, handsome, fretful-looking face,
upon which more than one quiet comment had
been made on the day of the visitors' inspection
of the works.

D 2

Probably it had been a weary expression
then — the look of a woman whose health was
indifferent, or whose interest had not been
awakened, or who was very quickly bored by
small arms in all stages of manufacture, and by
the legion of workmen employed upon their
construction. Certainly on that day her indifference
had been generally marked ; and Mr.
Overdown still remembered how she had walked
with grave demeanour from room to room,
glancing at very little, and leaving all the
questioning to her husband.

It was the same face — scarcely changed in
any degree — a trifle whiter, perhaps, as if anxiety,
or, the fatigue of travelling, had left
its mark there. She was sitting with one arm
resting on the table, and her gloved hand supporting
her chin ; and she did not change her
attitude as Mr. Overdown advanced. She looked
at him from two clear, brown eyes, as if she
doubted him, or was on her guard against any
statement he might make.

Good evening, ma'am,' he said, in his usual
brisk way, and the lady faintly inclined her

head to his salutation, keeping her steady eyes
fixed on him.

Your name is Overdo wn, this good woman
tells me V the lady said, slowly and deliberately.


At your service, madam,' he replied.

Those in my service are invariably well
paid,' she said, meaningly, but in the same slow
tones ; ' and you will be no exception to the
rule, if you are able to assist me.'

I am afraid there is no chance of remuneration,
then,' he added, lightly.

Why, no chance V

Because I don't see my way to be of assistance
to you.'

Ah I you are in my husband's confidence,'
she added, with a faint ring of scorn in her
reply.

1 think not,' answered Mr. Overdown ; ' that
is, if your husband is the sick gentleman at the
"White Swan"'

I have reason to believe he is. I have not
seen him yet,' she replied ; and the gloved
hand left her chin and clasped the other in her

lap tightly and quickly. It was the first e^a-
clench of emotion that she had shown.

^Mr. Welbyf

That is the name he goes by in this place V
she inquired.

That is the name,' was the reply.

There was a railway accident some weeks
since near the Grey Tor Vale, and you and Mr.
Welby were the two passengers whom it was
found expedient to bring here T

Yes, madam.'

You and this gentleman were going on to
Culverley — a small town, ten miles away, I
think r

About ten miles,' answered Mr. Overdown.

He did not reply to the first portion of the
inquiry, he hardly knew why. It was no business
of his; he had not been enjoined to secresy
but there was a secret, good or bad, connected
with Mr. Welby's mission, and he did not feel
disposed to help to betray it. It could bring no
happiness to the tall woman, who had travelled
post-haste to solve the mystery for herself ; he
was assured of that already. It might even.

mar some chance of happiness, of future confidence,
for what he knew of the matter, and he
Avonld give every man his fair chance.

The lady was quick enough to detect his
hesitation.

I asked if yon and Mr. Welby were travelling
to Coverley,' she said.

I was going several miles past Coverley on
business ; where Mr. Welby was going, I cannot
say.'

You had not seen him before the accident?'

Once before — years ago — at Edgewick's
factory in Birmingham.'

Only once before T

Only once.'

May I ask how many times you and Mr.
Welby have met since V

I have seen him looking out of the window
of his room more than once, watching me down
the valley so wistfully that my heart has ached
for him.'

You went to see him this evening — you
were anxious to see him, the landlord of the inn
informs me.'

I wished to see a fellow-sufferer before I
went away tomorrow ; he seemed to be very
much alone, and very unhappy, and I thought I
might be of some service.'

Well r

Well,' said Daniel Overdown ; ' that's all.'

Did he not trust you V

'No.'

Not with a message to his wife ? — or to any
other lady, or gentleman T she added, after a
pause.

Not a word. He said he was getting welland
should soon be able to act for himself.'

No wish expressed of any kind, then ?' she
added, doubtingly.

No,' replied Mr. Overdown, for the third time.

You are telling me the truth, I hope,' said
the lady ; and the face lost suddenly its weariness
or fretfulness of expression, and was full
of eagerness for a few fleeting minutes, whilst
she spoke. ' You do not know what a life-long
misery a few deceitful words of yours may
cause now. If you are a good man, you-will
tell me all you know.'

Madam, unfortunately I know nothing,' answered
Overdown. ' I am not in your husband's
confidence. He will probably tell you
all when you meet. You will excuse me, but
I hardly understand why you expect information
from me.'

Because ' she began ; then she came to a

full stop, and the old weary look returned with
her enforced silence. Because she distrusted
Mr. Welby, thought Daniel Overdown, and considered
the truth more easily got at in the
quarryman's cottage than from the lips of the
sufferer at the ' Swan ;' because, had he, the
mechanic, known the truth, money might have
bribed it out of him in the estimation of this
fine lady, who was evidently as perplexed as
everybody else as to Mr. Welby 's motives for
coming down to Derbyshire.

Mr. Overdown did not press for a reply ; he
leaned against the wainscot table by the latticed
window, and twisted his cap round in his hands.
There was no more to say on either side, ho
imagined; he knew nothing of Mr. AVelby's
second life — that hfc in the shade, and for ever

apart from life with this lady — and hence there
was no need for further conversation. Still
Mrs. Welby seemed reluctant to depart, although
Mr. and Mrs. Skemmick and their awestruck
children were dying to get rid of her.

It is strange,' Mrs. Welby murmured at last,
as she rose. ' I have no alternative save to
believe you.'

I am sorry you doubt my word, but,' shaking
his head lightly, and laughing lightly too, 'I
shall get over it.'

I doubt everything and everybody just now,'
she muttered, more to herself than to her listeners.
' If I have hurt your feelings, you must
forgive me, but I am a woman nati-ally perplexed.
I am not myself.'

It was a graceful apology, if made with the
same air of weariness which had marked her
general demeanour, and Mr. Overdown bowed
again, and said, ' Don't mention it,' and then
followed her out of the house, and slowly along
the dark and dusty roadway, in the direction
of the inn. The lady glanced at him with a
faint surprise after a while.

I hardly require an escort — I am taking you
ont of your way,' she said.

I will see yon as far as the " Swan," with
your permission.'

The lady inclined her head, and walked on
somewhat slowly. The suspicion had come to
her again — was she a suspicions woman ? — that
the man had something to tell her after all,
and had postponed the revelation till they were
alone together. She might have seen that
before. It was natural that he should be discreet
before the people at the cottage. She
slackened her pace still more, and once glanced
askance at her companion, but he was pursuing
his way moodily, with his hands clasped behind
his back, and his eyes directed to the ground.
She gave him time, but he would not avail
himself of it, and she remarked, at last,

You have nothing further to say, Mr. Over-down?'


Nothing, except this. That if I can bo of
any use in this muddle to you, or your husband,
I am willing. I do not know,' he added,
*why I should push myself forward, but I

have still the notion I might be of service.'

I do not see how yon can help me,' she
replied, more coldly.

If I were to break the news to the gentleman
that you have arrived, for instance,' he
suggested.

Do you think my presence will frighten him
so much?' she asked, with slow severity.

He does not expect you,' was the reply.
I shall not scare him a great deal.'

He is very weak.'

I will be careful of him.'

Why, that's your duty,' said Mr. Over down,
bluntly ; ' though,' he added, ' it's not every
woman who knows her duty, or where forgiveness
might step in even before it, and make
things straight again.'

Daniel Overdown addressed this aphorism to
.the dusty road, but the lady at his side glanced
quickly at him.

Are you a religious man V she asked, with
greater interest.

Can't say I am, exactly ; though I have been
to chapel once or twice. Odd, isn't it V

For a man of your class, I admit it is,' she
answered.

^ Oh, yon don't know what my class is, or how it
behaves itself after work,' he replied ; ' yon think
we are all at the public-houses guzzling down our
grievances and onr wages. We're — but here's
the " Swans' and that ugly black coach of yours,
and I will wish you a good evening.'

Good evenings

I'm still at Edgewick's Small Arm Factory,
Birmingham, if wanted,' he said, with emphasis ;
if not, why, all the better for us all. Goodnight,
again, and good luck to you and him''

He jerked his thumb towards the window
where the light was burning, and she might
have read a warning in his gesture, if she had
cared to take it from one so immeasurably below
her own position in the world. But she Alas a
woman who had faith in herself, as well as in
God — the greater faith in her own poor estimate
of what was right and just than in His, although
she would not have dared to confess it, or believed
even that she had it.

And it was with this immense measure of self-confidence

that the tall lady went lack to the
Swan,' and to the husband whom she had
tracked there.

CHAPTER y.

THE BETTER HALF.

The landlord of the ' Swan ' was standing
under the ivy-clad porch of his picturesque inn,
waiting for the lady's return. He wore a dubious
and perplexed air on his broad, pasty face,
and was smoking a long clay pipe — his ' churchwarden
' — with solemnity.

During the lady's absence, down at Skem-
mick's, he had had time to think the matter over,
to take his own good lady into his confidence,
to examine and cross-examine the postilion, and
ascertain how the mysterious visitor had turned
up by the express from London, driven to the
hotel in a fly, ordered a post-chaise, at any cost,
so that time should not be wasted, 'harassed

and fidgeted and worried everybody all round,'
until the post-chaise was ready, upbraided the
postilion en route, and reflected on his lazy
driving, and the bad condition of his horseflesh,
and wore him * to skin and bone ' by continually
letting down the window and asking him
how many miles it was now.

There was evidently a storm brewing, and
mine host did not look forward with pleasure to
a tempest in his establishment. He could not
see the end of it, and of what might follow the
end of it, he had hinted t(j his wife. To aggravate
matters, j\Ir. Welby would not wake up to
be informed of the fresh arrival, and Miss Eyes,
the certificated,' who had been conferred ^\dth,
was as perplexed as he was.

It's a great bother,' she said.

I msh she hadn't found him,' confessed the
host. •

She will never want to see him,' remarked
the imrse, dubiously ; ' she will be content, I
daresay, with hearing how he is getting on.'

Ye-es,' said the landlord, ' but she's his ^Wfe,
mind you.'

So much the worse,' was the sharp answer.

Under the circumstances, so much the worse,
as you say, ma'am.'

I think I will see Mrs. Welby, when she
comes,' said the nurse.

Yes, that's right, do,' the landlord responded,
with alacrity.

It will be better.'

Very much better,' was the positive assent.

But, when the lady had arrived, the nm'se was
not at hand, as the landlord had hoped and
prayed she might be, and there was he left to
receive the first brunt of it after all.

Good evening again to you, ma'am,' said the
landlord.

Good evening.'

He's still asleep, lady,' he explained, in a low,
deep bass, ' and I can't help fancying it's a pity
to wake him now it's so late. Don't you think
the morning would '

'I am not able to stay till the morning; I
return to-night,' she said, almost snappishly.

Ye-es, exactly, ma'am ; so the position has
been saying, but still '

VOL. I. E

Tell the nurse I want to see her, please
said the lady, interrupting him ; ' she will understand
me better than yon

'•1 don't see that exactly.'

Yon seem dull and confused.'

« Oh, indeed. Well,' he said, ' I'll send for her
directly.'

Presently the nurse appeared. She came
downstairs in her list slippers as noiseless as a
cat, and bowed with great gravity, keeping a
keen watch on the traveller, as if endeavouring
to read what were the thoughts, doubts, and
hopes behind that quiet, pale, aristocratic
face.

She bowed low to the lady, who made the
slightest movement of her head in return, and
by way of acknowledgment of the nurse's
salutation.

He is asleep, madam,' she said, ' and it wil
be very unwise to disturb him at this time of
night.'

Why f

He is very weak still,' she added,

And you think I shall disturb him ?' asked
the lady,

The nurse hardly knew how to reply. She
thought she read something of dissatisfaction
and suspicion, as well as anxiety in the face ;
the shadow of a scene to come — the characters,
a woman deceived and a man found out — was
surely cast upon the screen, and yet she was
not sure.

*The least thing disturbs him, madam,' she
"went on to remark.

I am not the least thing,' was the cold
answer.

And in his critical position I will not answer
for the consequences.'

a will.'

I am responsible to the . doctor for my
patient,' said the nurse, with spirit. Nurses, like
lionesses, are easily roused: they will, reign
supreme in the sick-room, or know the reason
why their dominion is interfered with — even a
monthly ' of the real old Gamp class cuts up
roughly at a trifle.

'I have the doctor's permission to see the
patient.'

^ At this hoiu'?' said the nurse, wonderingly.

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF Illic

Yes,' answered the lady, producing the letter
from the pocket of her dress ; ' are you Miss
Eyles V

The nurse nodded an assent, took the letter
from the lady's hand, and read the few lines
which it contained.

It ran as follows :

Allow this lady to see Mr. Welby immediately
upon her arrival.'

Very well,' she said, * but the gentleman is
asleep. You will not attempt to wake him V

I will not attempt to wake him,' she echoed
back.

It is as much as his life is worth to do so —
he is feverish to-night ; rest is everything to
him,' said the nurse, once more, and by way
of extra warning.

I will not disturb his rest, if it can possibly
be avoided.'

He is in your hands now, madam,'

Mrs. Welby did not reply, and Miss Eyles led

the way upstairs reluctantly.

She was a shrewd woman, who knew better

what was safe at this juncture than a doctor

miles away from the patient, and, as we have
hinted, she did not admire the manner of the
patient's wife. It was haughty towards herself,
bnt that she could have put up with,
and it was not natural to the lady. Hence
there was self-repression, and what the result of
seeing the sick man might be, or of the sick
man seeing his wife, was difficult to guess at
if the self-repression gave way or burst up.
She washed her hands of the responsibility, and
put the doctor's letter in her pocket. She had
warned the lady, and the lady had snubbed her
for her pains — a wife had every right to visit
her husband certainly, but she somehow wished
that it had not been a wife of this pattern.

Into the sick-room glided the nurse; into
the sick-room rustled the woman who had tracked
her runaway lord to his lair. A lamp was burning
on the table, its light shaded from the invalid
by the curtain of the bed being drawn between
it and him; a book that the nurse had been
reading, and the nurse's watch — a large, silver,
turnips article — were on the table by the side of
the lamp. The wife went across the room to

the table without glancing towards the bed —
she was nervous now, perhaps, and needed
time to compose herself. She took np the
watch and set it down again, as if anxious
about the time — it was close upon ten o'clock
and then a second watch, of chased and
massive gold, upon the mantelpiece attracted
her attention. Mr. Welby had worn it that day
for the first time since his accident, and Mrs.
AVelby recognised it, and the big foreign coin
appended to the chain, which shook and jingled
with her own shaking hand.

Miss Eyles wished Mrs. Welby a hundred
miles off — further off than the fate which had
brought her there.

Yes, it is his,' the lady whispered to herself;
then she put the watch down, and faced the
sleeping man at last. He was lying very calm
and still just then — a grim-faced rigidity that
one might have taken for a corpse Avithout much
stretch of the imagination. She looked eagerly
towards him, and then went step-bye step
nearer to the bed until she was close against
the chintz curtain, which she drew back so

that the Hight for a moment fell upon his face.

Paul, poor Paul !' she murmured.

Don't touch the certain, please,' whispered
the nurse, jealous of all interference with her arrangements
for the sick man's comfort ; * you
must not do that.'

'He sleeps very peacefully.'

It is his one chance,' warned Miss Eyles
again.

The visitor did not reply — did not hear her.
She sank into a chair by the bedside, clasped her
gloved hands together, and, after watching her
husband for a few more minutes, spread them
suddenly before her face. Miss Eyles could hear
many whispered words ; long, hurried sentences
of extempore prayer, which sounded strangely
and impressively at that horn, although they jarred
upon the nurse's sensitive ears. Presently
the sleeping man moved restlessly in his bed, as
though prayers troubled him, and the nurse was
on her feet again, and gesticulating to the lady,
now leaning across the coverlet, with her hands
dropped from her face. The lady saw the
nurse's warning gestures, but took no heed of

them ; she kept her place there, grave and anxious,
and he whom she watched opened his eyes
and glanced at her as at a vision which had come
to him in the night — an awful vision, which he
had prayed to God might never afflict him in an
hour like this.

Frances,' he whispered, hoarsely, ' it is you,
then V

Yes, it is I,' she answered, very calmly.

At last.'

« You never sent for me.'

No, I never sent.'

Are you afraid of me now that I am here,
Paul V

No, no,' he answered, hurriedly, ' but you
should not have come to this place — I am getting
better.'

Without me — yes, ' she added, with a
sigh.

I thought it would be best,' he continued,
with difficulty, ' that you should be ignorant — of
this. I was afraid of alarming you — there was
no necessity to — to distress you — and the child
and all. our friends. I thought I should get

well more quickly than I have done, and come
back sooner — don't yon see ?'

'.I see, Paul, that you have been very considerate
towards me,' she said, still quietly, ' but
this was a difficult thing to conceal, and a long
absence hard to explain — even to me, always
taking your word for truth, and never doubting
your honors and good faith.'

There was a moment's pause, and the paled
features of the man were for an instant changed
to a dusky red, as the wife added, very
slowly,

Never till this day.'

He did not answer her, he might have even
turned an appealing glance towards his nm'se
for an interference at this crisis, for Miss Eyles'
voice once more broke in upon the marital
dialogue.

If you would postpone fui-ther questions till
the morning, madam, it would be for the benefit
of my patient. You are depriving him of his
chance of a night's rest, and 1 must really beg
you to be silent,' said the nurse.

I shall be many miles away before the

morning,' the wife replied. ' I have no time to
spare.'

You are going away at once T asked the
husband, curiously.

Yes, unless you wish me to stay — unless
you think I can be of any use to you,' she answered,
with an anxious look towards him, as if
she hoped she might be.

No — no, I think not.'

Very well.'

He lay silent for awhile ; then he murmm-ed,

I have everything I wish. She ' — indicating
Miss Eyles by a slight movement — ' is very attentive,
and clever, and cool. I had better keep as
quiet as I can.'

« I think so, too,' said the wife, more coldly, ' I

have made no arrangement to stay, and our Estelle

is far from well again.'
Poor girl, I am sorry for that.'
She has been fretting for you lately.'
The man's lips began to quiver, and the 

to blink tremulously. He was terribly weak

still.

Give my love to her,' he added, in a broken

voice.

When you return home — when you have
related everything to me that you think I have
a right to know — it weill be time enough to give
a father's love to her,' said the wife. ' At
present she believes you are in Italy. I have
tried — to my shame, perhaps ! — to deceive her
all I can, for she is very young, and very weak,
and thinks a great deal of her father, and, perhaps,
I could not explain to her how I found
you here, or under what circumstances. The
mystery of this must for ever remain apart from
her innocent young life.'

It will be best,' he muttered.

God knows what is best — I don't think you
ever did, Paul,' she said, regretfully ; * and this
is the end of a great deception that has lasted
many years between us. I see it now,' she
added, with a half groan. ' I should have seen
it long ago if I had had less trust in you.'

What have you seen V he asked, timidly.

That conan /' she cried, indignantly and
passionately, at last ; ' her whom you were going
to Culverley to see, when God Almighty struck
you down in your Wickedness. It was His
judgment.'

It was the jealous woman now, no longer the
saint who prayed, or the stoic who kept cool,
but an impassioned, inconsiderate female, with
her heart stabbed too deeply to play propriety
before a hired nurse and a sick husband. He
would deceive her on his death-bed for his
paltry name's sake, and she would have none of
his deception. Let him know, at least, that she
had found him out, and would never in all her
after life forgive him, come what would — never,
never, never !

You are mistaken — you are in the wrong,'
he shouted back at her, with great excitement,
in his turn ; ' I Alas going to Culverley for '

He came to a full stop, and turned of a greyish
hue. Once more, and for the third time with
some effect, the vigilant Miss Eyles interposed.

'Mrs. Welby,' she said, with extraordinary
severity of tone, ' I warn you that you will be
your husband's death, if you remain any longer.
I must insist,' she added, with a little stamp of
her foot, ' on your immediate departure.'

The tall lady drew herself up to every inch other
height, and looked down proudly at the

woman who hissed at her this warning; then
her colour changed, and her manner altered
considerably.

I have no more to say,' she said, almost
meekly ; * I forgot myself, and your charge. I
hope,' with a timid glance towards her husband,
that I have done no harm by speaking to yon.'

I hope not.'

I pray not.'

She leaned over the bed again, regarding him
who lay there very anxiously.

I am going,' she said ; ' have you anything
to say before I go ?'

'Not now.'

Not a word of explanation, Paul V

I can't say anything more to-night,' he answered,
huskily and wearily ; ' let me be, please.'

What there is to forgive, I may forgive, Paul,
in good time,' she added, gently now. ' Will
that set your mind at rest, if — if we shall not
meet, again f

Yes,' he answered, softly, ' I think it will.'

But there is — oh ! my poor husband — there
is One to ask forgiveness of, before myself. Pray,

think of Him ; ask Him to spare yoii years of
life and of repentance. Will you V

Presently.'

You are getting better every clay, the doctor
says,' she added, assuringly ; ' and, when you are
home again, we Avill try to think the best of
everything, and lead a different life, with
Heaven's help, and for our dear child's sake.
Why notes I will not be unmerciful; you have
not been a bad husband to me, although I did
not know — did not dream that — Good-bye, Paul ;
I will send tomorrow to inquire after you,' she
added, as she hastily broke away from one last
reproach hovering on her lips.

Good-bye, Frances,' he murmured.

She hurried from the room, first dropping
money into the nurse's hand, which closed upon
two sovereigns by the purest instinct, though
the rules of the Institute were against the gift,
and went downstairs in her blind swiftness, and
through a whirling mist of tears. She had betrayed
something of the agony of her heart, but
not much. If the invaHd, or the nurse Eyles,
had only known of the struggle it had been to

keep back all that was festering in her mind
and memory, all that was driving her mad with
jealousy and wounded pride, and the misery of
a dull, dead future, where consolation could
come never again, and where happiness lay dead,
and religion, in that hour, only seemed to mock
her, they would have pitied her more, and wondered
at her struggle with herself ending so
well. If they could have heard her sobs and wild
failings, in the darkness of the coach as it was
whMed away, along the country road, from the
husband who was afraid of her, they might have
understood more clearly the nature of the trial
she had experienced, and the bitter awakening
to the truth it had been.

CHAPTER VI.

SENT FOR.

The next day was all bright sunshine in the
valley, a hot day of its kind, with no breeze
to shake the leaves of the great trees, and the
busy brook, a torrent of molten silver in the
sun.

It was a fair picture of peace and rest in the
green bosom of picturesque old Derbyshire.
Tragedy, or the shadow of tragedy, can surely
not belong to this spot, lying far away from the
great cities, where the throbbing, feverish
hearts are always beating madly. Who could
dream of great trouble a hundred yards or so
distant from this quiet landscape, or of grim forebodings,
terrible reproaches, and vain regrets —
of the fearful despair which comes ever to the

sinner from whom the work is shipping away,
and to whom the world has been everything,
and its Maker but a name, perhaps a terror ?
The scene around seemed to breathe only of
content ; even the bulls had ceased their bickering
and were full of music, or else silent in
their nests ; the sky was of a deep blue, flecked
here and there by dazzling white clouds which
sailed on grandly through the azure ; and the
country lad in the distance, fishing from the
red brick arch across the stream, was part of the
scene's harmony, for all his soitow that the
fish would not nibble at his bait that day.

Now it's actually come to going home, its
almost a pity,' said Mr. Overdown, standing
with his hands in his pockets, and his legs very
wide apart, at the door of Mr. Skemmick's cottage
; ' it's like the end of a holiday, almost.'

Donteo go then,' suggested Mr. Skemmick,
home for his twelve o'clock meal, and very busy
at it within doors, and speaking \vith his mouth
full, ' we're in no hoary to get rid o' ye, mate ;
and,' he added, with a chuckle, ' the railway
pays all expenses.'

VOL. I. F

Y es, but I don't want to embarrass it
with a big bill for board and lodging, as well as
for wear and tear of constitution,' Dan said,
laughing ; * and the doctor reports that I am
hit for work. I Alas anxious about work yesterday,
but dashed if I am to-day, somehow.
I know why, though.'

Why, how's that, Mr. Overdown?' asked Mr.
Skemmick.

It's that big swell at the " Swan," ' replied
Daniel ; ' I don't like leaving him somehow —
all by himself like. We have been together
here; we came down together, got damaged
together, and we ought to have gone home together.
That would have been a fair and
square arrangement, mind you, Mr. Skemmick ;
that would have been winding up the history
neat and tidy.'

Mr. Skemmick gave a loud laugh, and a * Get
out with you for that,' as though he imagined
Daniel Overdown to be perpetrating a joke;
but Mrs. Skemmick said, with great solemnity,

It's my belief he's nearer home than you, Mr
Overdown, by a big, long way.'

Eh — what V he said, sharply; ' do you mean
going to die V

That I do mean.'

Good lor.'

There was a great winding-sheet in the
candle last night, when Skemmick and I went
lip to bed,' she explained, still farther. ' Don't
you remember, Skemmick?'

Ay, I do,' replied Skemmick, becoming
solemn himself at the reminiscence ; ' o' course
there was.'

Ah, we don't believe in any of that rubbish,
Birmingham way,' said My. Overdown, bluntly,
though I believe it's the odds against the
gentleman all the same. I didn't like the look
of him last time ; I didn't like the glare . in his
eyes,' he added, very thoughtfully.

It's a bad sign when they glares,' said Skem-
mick.

I wonder what he said to the lady, or the
lady to him,' observed sirs. Skemmick.

Yes, so do I,' replied Mr. Overdown. « I
hope it was all right ; I hope they kissed and
.made it up, if there was anything to make up,

f2

which there might have been, you know.
AAHiich there was, 1 suppose, or he would have
sent for her ever so long ago.'

To be sure,' said Skemmick ; ' he's fro' London
— bennet he ?'

'Yes.'

Mayhap, then, he's stolen something, and
was trying to get away,' said Skemmickj seized
with a new and bright idea ; * there's a rare
heap of thieves in London, I've heard tell.
Oceans of 'em.'

Mr. Overdown did not reply to this. He had
abetter opinion of London folk than the quarryman,
or else he was not disposed to contradict
the assertion, or else he had not been listening
to him* Presently he said,

I had the idea he might not be long for this
world when I called upon him yesterday, and
that is why I did call. I thought he might
have trusted me for the want of a better man.
Skemmick !'

Hollow !' answered Skemmick.

I shall walk down to the " Swan " again,
and ask how he is this morning,' said Dan. ' I've
got him on my mind, old man.'

•' You'll tire yourself out.'

Pooh ! not L'

Ye're not yourself yet, by a long chalk

I'm a lion, Seem,' was the reply.

Mr. Dan Overdown set off down the valley ;
and the twin Skemmicks, with nothing to do
that day but fret sun-piteously at the prospect
of Mr. Overdown's departure, scrambled to
then feet and insisted upon accompanying him.

Ye maun come back,' screamed the mother,
after them.

Let them be,' answered Overdown, ' we
shan't see much more of each other ; poor little
kids,' he added, as though he thought the loss of
his society to them was a blow from which they
might not speedily recover.

He walked down the valley, holding a twin by
each hand, and, brightening up ^vith the bright
sunshine without, he launched into small talk
and odd remarks, and even grotesque steps,
to amuse the children until the Skemmick
juniors were shrieking with laughter, and he
fancied he should leave them ' pretty jolly,
after all.'

Half-way clown the road he met the stableboy
from the ' Swan ' ii, slouching along at a
fan pace — a boy who was three-fourths an idiot,
it was thought in Gravesly, and who was trudging
towards him with-his mouth open and his
tongue out. He, like all the rest of the village,
knew Dan Overdown very well by sight now.
Dan Overdown had made a point of knowing
everybody long ago.

The stable-boy, being very much of a dolt,
would have passed him with a nod and a vacant
grin, had not Dan said,

Where are you going, Jem V

Oo — ay — I be going for you, to be sure,' he
said, with another grin, of most extraordinary
dimensions this time.

Why, you addle pate, why didn't you say so,'
exclaimed Dan. ' Who wants me V

I dont know.'

^ Who sent for me V

Oo — master told me to coon and find you.'

Oh, did he ? And how's the gentleman upstairs
f

'Mortal bad.'

I'm wanted,' muttered Dan, « he wants me,
after all.'

He sent the young Skemmicks back to their
home, weeping and wailing at their summary
dismissal, and, with the stable-boy keeping as
much step with him as a pair of clumsy
feet, describing segments of circles, would
allow, the gunsmith stepped out briskly for the
Swan.'

The landlord and landlady were waiting for
him in the broad passage, both looking grave
enough now, as though the probable misfortune
of losing Mr. Welby severely affected them;
which it did, as a customer of some standing,
who might have been good for half-a-dozen
more weeks, ' if it had not pleased the Lord to
hurry him bang off,' said the landlord to Mr.
Overdown.

He's been asking for you every half minute,'
added the landlady, ' so you'd better go up at
once.'

Is the doctor there V

He has been here, but Mr. Welby wouldn't
let him stop. He's coming again presently

was the landlord's reply ; * don't see the good
of it myself, except to add to his bill. But he's
coming.'

What does the doctor say V
That he's worse — much worse.'
That's bad ; Vm sorry.'

It's all that woman's bothering last night,'
said the landlord.

Very likely. Women "\\dll bother.'
Daniel Overdown went softly upstairs and
tapped at the door of the room wherein he
had been introduced some eighteen hours
since. The nurse opened the door, and put
her fingers to her lips, enjoining caution to
the new-comer, and then made way for him to
enter.

He has arrived, sir,' she said, in a low voice.
That's well,' murmured the invalid, in a voice
much lower still — a far-away voice that was a
little startling, 'that's well. He will wait, and
give me time.'

There was no more said for a while, not even
when Daniel Overdown was looking upon the
white, pinched face of the sufferer, whose eyes

were fixed upon the visitor with a strange,
yearning gaze, and yet with a strange don't of
him, as if, even at the last, he feared to trust the
man.

Miss Eyles placed a chair at the side of the
bed for the gunsmith, who sat down, cap in hand,
and waited for any commands vnih which ]mr.
Welby might think to favour him. There had
some a great change to the sick man since he,
Dan Overdown, had seen him last— a change
for the worse ; and yet, only the change which
comes, sooner or later, to all of ns, poor mortals,
in turn. To this man lying here, a change much
sooner than he had bargained for, ov prepared
for. That was the crjang shame of it ; in that
hoiu- of his discontent, a grief and a surprise as
well, but none the less a shame, he was convinced
in his own mind. If he had been only
allowed to hive a little longer, if he had been
mercifully spared to make things rights how
niuch better it would have been for everybody!


Presently the thin, white lips parted, and he
said.

It is very good of you to come, Mr. Over-down.'


Not at all,' was the reply.

Yes, it is ; very good of yon.'

I only hope I can be of service in some way,
and that you haven't had the trouble of seeing
me again for nothing,' said Dan ; ' for if, in any
fashion '

He stopped, as the man raised his hand from
the coverlet in a deprecating manner, as though
Mr. Overdown's explanation was of no concern
to him, or took up too much time at a critical
period of his own career.

Thank you. Yes,' he said ; ' now, let me think
a moment, please.'

There was another long pause ; and the ticking
of Mr. Welby's watch upon the mantelpiece
was very loud and noisy in the silence of
the room.

The sick man said, at last,

I have changed for the worse. They say I
may not live the day out.'

I'm sorry to hear it, sir, very sorry.'

'Do you see — any great alteration in me —
yourself?'

Well, sir — I must say — you've altered, somehow,'
answered Daniel Overdown, hesitatingly,
but '

Don't keep interrupting me,' said the invalid,
querulously again ; ' I can't get on if you talk as
well as 1/

All right, sir.'

Mr. Welby considered the position again ;
Miss Eyles, the nurse, slipped back, and sat
down in the shadow of the curtain, in the
secret hope that her patient would forget her
presence ; for she was not above her sex's little
Weaknesses, of which we have heard curiosity is
one that dates from very early times indeed,
and Daniel Overdown twisted his cap in his
hands, and did not speak again.

When you came here yesterday evening,' recommenced
the gentleman whom we at present
know only as Mr. Welby, 'you implied — that
you would be glad — to be of help to me.'

Daniel nodded.

That's quite correct, sir.'

That was kind of you. And this morning I
have been thinking you might be of service. Of

very great service,' lie repeated, thoughtfully.

Well, sh', I'll try to be.'

There's a something in your face which says,
Trust me " ; and,' he concluded, with a strange,
pathetic grimace, ' I haven't anybody else to
trust Not one.'

I'm sure, sir ' began the nurse, taken off

her guard by this assertion.

He stared at the nurse's face peering round
the curtain at him.

You have been very kind to me, Miss Eyles,
but ' — closing his lips very firmly — ' one never
trusts a woman.' •

Ah, I don't agree with you there,' cried Dan
Overdown.

Or trusts a woman too much, and is deceived
by her,' continued Mr. Welby; 'as would be
very natural. Will you be good enough to leave
us, Miss Eyles ? I should be much obliged to
you.'

*But -'

Mr. Overdown can call you at any moment.
I — I have private business with — the gentleman,'
he said, very precisely, if very feebly.

As you please, Mr. Welby ; and if you insist
said Miss Eyles, rising, and going reluctantly
from the room.

Lock the door,' said Mr. Welby, hastily and
eagerly, ' then she can't come back.'

Daniel Overdown looked surprised, but he
crossed the room and turned the key in the
lock as the sick man had requested.

Are you sure it is fastened V asked Mr.
Welby.

Quite sure.'

Come and sit down here, then, close to me,
so that I need not raise my voice too loudly.
Can you hear every word I say?'

Every word.'

I don't know what made you think that I
had anything preying on my mind,' whispered
the sick man. ' I have kept myself very quiet
and free from excitement, whilst I have been in
this place. There was nothing to warrant your
suspicions.'

Excepting your objection to let anyone
know where you were,' added Mr. Over-down.


Oil, yes, there was that, certainly. I had
forgotten for a moment. What should you
think was my reason, now V he added, very
curiously ; ' in your humble way, you seem a
shrewd man. What should you think V

Well — you were hiding from the wife who
was moving heaven and earth to find you said
Mr. Overdown ; ' you were coming this way
secretly and sneakingly — if you'll excuse my
saying so — and the whole thing is very easily
guessed.'

Easily guessed !'

To be sure.'

Go on,' said the invalid.

« If there had been a fair and honest reason,
you would not have objected to the wife's
knowing where you were. If '

If,' repeated Mr. Welby, watching him very
closely, as he paused.

If there had not been another woman somewhere,'
was the blunt reply, at last.

Mr. Welby's eyes quivered very much like a
man's with the sun very strong upon them,
but he shook his head to and fro in protest

against the inspirations of his companion.

Yon are wrong in your suspicions — completely
worn.'

That's good hearing, sir.'

You'll think that. She, and you, and everybody
else. That's how the world judges — always!
As if there could be no other reason,
save a low, despicable intrigue. xAs if I were—
not above it — as if '

Well, there was not a woman in the case,'
cried Overdown ; * and, by Jove ! I am glad
of that, though I don't know what it is todo
with me.'

• You are too quick, sir ; there may be a woman
in the case, without her being a guilty
woman. I may have been compelled to come
this way secretly, at the risk of the little happiness
left to me and my home, but none the less
compelled to come. God knows this is my trial
more than anyone else's,' he cried, with great
excitement now; 'and that in striving to do
good, not harm, to save and not to sin, I have
been misjudged by man, and struck down by
God.'

I wouldn't go on like that,' said Dan Over-down,
quietly, and touching his restless hand.
Not at the last, sir — with you so close to the
end. That's not as a man should leave this
world or pass into the next.'

Mr, Welby was soothed by the other's earnestness
— even impressed by it.

You are — a good fellow — I think,' he murmured.
' I stand corrected, sir.'

I'm not a good fellow,' was the reply, ' but I
don't like to hear you rave about your wrongs
too much.'

Ah I and I have brought my wrongs — my
punishment — upon myself, Overdown,' he said,
sadly ; ' as people will, very often. Are you
sure you locked that door V

'Yes.'

Are you sure you are prepared to do me one
honest service, that — that I cannot do myself?*

Yes,' said Daniel Overdown, again.

Keeping my secret V

Keeping your secret.'

Or divulging it, if so it should be necessary,
presently V

Yes.'

Trusting me blindly, as it were — as I trust
your

Well— yes.'

For there are things which pass out of the
world with me also — which belong to my Hfe,
and must not disturb the Ives of other men.
So much the better this.'

Perhaps so. I cannot tell,' said Over-down.


Daniel Overdown waited very patiently ; but,
strange to say, with time so precious to the
dying man, there was still the reluctance to proceed,
which was part and parcel of a nati-ally
secretive nature. Mr. Welby had all his life
been difficult to understand, and his end was
like unto the rest of it.

There was a few moments more of hesitation,
then he gave a deep sigh, and said,

Listen to me, please. This is what I want
you to do.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTER VII.

INSTRUCTIONS.

To avoid vain repetitions we will not detail to
the reader in the present chapter all the instructions
which the gentleman, under the false name
of Welby gave to Daniel Overdown, of birmingham.
They form part of the mystery
entrapping the Hfe of an eccentric man, of not
too good a man, of a man beset by many
weaknesses and vanities, and yet striving hard
to do his best — an impossible best as it was,
and likely to turn out the worst at any moment,
as it had done. A chapter or two hence,
this Daniel Overdown will fulfil ]Mr. Welby's
mission, and draw the veil aside with his
own hands, and, so far as he was able, from

that story in which he had become interested,
and which was to affect the whole tenor of his
life.

Suffice it to say now, that the interview was
a long one, and that the instructions took a
considerable time to make clear to the gunsmith.
There were interruptions also, and outbursts
of passion and remorse, strangely commingled
with the old weak protestations of injustice
to himself in the shape of the cruel
doubts and the ungenerous verdicts on his conduct,
that had been made by those who should
have trusted him implicitly, and taken his word
for everything.

Ashen he had finished, Daniel Overdown was
perhaps less surprised at the family doubts and
suspicions than he had been before ; but then,
the sufferer had told him he should keep part
of the story to himself, which he did religiously,
and presently went out of the world nth
after his o^^ai peculiar fashion, and with never
an one the ^viser. It was all for the best, he
was sure.

He had always been so sure of everything !

g2

Daniel OverdoAvn touched bis hand again
when he had told him the story, or that part of
the story which seemed necessary, and said,

You may trust me, Mr. '

Dangerfield,' was the reply.

And it is Mrs. Dangerfield who was here last
night, who '

Yes, yes ; that is it.'

'Ah, poor woman. I think I understand
now.'

He rose, and the man in bed said, with a sigh,

« I wish I could reward you in some way ; but
I am quite helpless here. There is a diamond
pin of mine somewhere about, or my gold
watch which might '

No, no ; they'd think I had stolen it. I don't
want any reward for what I am going to do. I
am interested,' he said, ' and shall do it very
willingly. Perhaps the reward will cone in
that, who knows, sir ?'

Ah, who knows,' was the dug man's reply ;
'but still I wish I could help you. You see
how impossible it is ?'

Yes, I see.'

Mr. Dangerfield, alias Welby, made a great
effort to reach his hand towards the gunsmith,
and Mr. Overdown, seeing this, put his own
brown hand upon the sick man's.

God bless you,' murmured Mr. Welby, * and
good-bye.'

Good-bye, and God bless you,^ was the slow
answer back.

Thus Daniel Overdown and Mr. Dangerfield
parted with each other for good.

CHAPTER VIII.

TWO CUTTINGS FROM THE NEWSPAPERS.

'1. On the sixteenth inst., at Gravesly, Derbyshire,
Paul Erasmus Wilberforce Dangerfield,
Secretary to Her Majesty's Blank Carriage Department,
Whitehall, in the forty-second year
of his age. Friends will please accept this
intimation.

2. We regret to observe that our obituary
of this morning records the name of Mr. Paul
Erasmus Wilberforce Danger-field, the able
Secretary to Her Majesty's Blank Cartridge
Department, Whitehall, who was an unfortunate
sufferer in the railway collision at
Grey Tor Vale, Derbyshire, in the beginning of
last month, and who, after giving to his

numerous friends and relatives great hope of
his ultimate recovery, finally succumbed to the
injuries he had received. The deceased was
an able and earnest servant of the Crown,
indefatigable in his public duties, and probably
marked out for the highest official distinction,
had not this unfortunate accident
terminated his career. He was well known as
an Oriental scholar of no mean attainments, and
was closely related to the Dangerfields of Warwickshire.
He married in 18 — Frances, youngest
daughter of Lord Redclove, who, with her
only daughter, is left to mourn his premature
decease.*

GOOD SAMARITANS.

CHAPTER 1.

MRS. DANGERFIELD AT HOME.

It is close upon two years since the untimely
death of Mr. Dangerfield, whom, under the name
of Welby, we attended at the ' White Swan,'
Gravesly. The memory of a government secretary
lasts not two years in the outer world,
where secretaries are plentiful and business is
brisk ; all the ' little talk ' about that gentleman
the little mystery that a few busybodies made
out of him , and an eccentric expedition to
Derbyshire — had been set aside for newer,
fresher scandals, and there were only one or
two intimately concerned, intimately related,
who remembered what a charming man Mr.
Dangerfield had been, what a loss to society he

Alas, and perhaps wondered a little what would
have happened had he lived.

There were many thoughts of the dead man
at a house in Regent's Park still ; the wife had
not forgotten him in twenty-four months, and
still wore — somewhat unwisely for a widow
who had ' chances ' — the deepest mourning for
her lord. The crape skirt was pretentious, invidious
folk asserted, at this remote stage of
widowhood ; it was as deep as on the day of
Mr. Dangerfield's funeral, which she had personally
attended, and the widow's face was almost
as long. That is to say, in kinder words, that
the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield's countenance
was very grave and sorrowful ; full of a thought
which the satire of the few who decried her
could not drive away ; full of the doubt even,
born of past experience, that there was not
much good in the world when one came to sift
it thoroughly. The Honourable Mrs. Danger-field
believed in her own goodness, however,
and had turned more serious of late days. She
had given up society after her husband's decease,
and had become extremely reserved in mundane

affairs, and extremely ' high ' in matters of
religious observance. She had been left very-well
off, and could indulge in her sorrows luxuriously.
Mr. Dangerfield had had a large fortune
with her, and had dropped, after his marriage and
his father's death, into a neat fortune of his own ;
and neither had been spent, but had been put
out to good interest, and embarked in safe
companies, and all that he had touched had
turned to gold. Happy fellow, this Danger-field,
everybody had said; one of those lucky
dogs on the right side of politics, with plenty of
money, and heaps of aristocratic friends ; a man
Who had done well, risen in the world well,
married well, and would have been positively a
great man had he lived a little longer, and not
booked from London to Culverley one unlucky
day, and been smashed up en route.

Mrs. Dangerfield still wore deep mourning,
then, for her husband. It could scarcely be said
that she fretted for him ; no one remembered
the shedding of the widow's tears, even at his
funeral ; her own daughter, Estella, had not
seen mamma cry. The widow was always very

grave, almost stern, of aspect ; a tall, stately,
youngish woman for foi* and thirty, who looked
steadily at the dead level of things she called
the world, and did not flinch from it, and the
duties which she had set herself in it. She was
not enjoying life — it was more than possible
that she never would again ; she had lost faith
in her fellow-creatures, though she subscribed to
all the charities, and went to church every day.
The pot priests of her own particular show-church
were the only perfect beings left upon
God's earth ; and perhaps it was as well that she
had them —and Estelle, always Estelle — to believe
in. They did her no harm ; they kept her
heart, somewhat disposed to be stony, from
wholly ossifying; and though they believed in
the pomps and vanities of the Church, and wore
smart vestments, and reverenced all the saints
in the calendar, they were' simple-headed,
simple-hearted people to know ; and they gave
the austere lady a great deal of mission work
to perform, which she did very badly on the
whole. She was essentially unsympathetic, and
hard of belief in human affliction, though she

had experienced much of it herself', and had
found it strike home. But then no one had had
such troubles as hers, she thought ; and the recapitulation
of little miseries did not affect her.
These grumblers should have suffered as she
had suffered ! AVhat was the loss of a little
money, of a little work, of a little health, to the
loss of confidence in a man to whom she had
given all her heart and soul, whom she had
loved blindly and faithfully.

This to herself, for Mrs. Danger-field never
complained outwardly. Estelle, the fair-haired,
white-faced, pensive, gawky girl, believed her
mother a model of peace and resignation, and
seemed to strive in every way to imitate her ;
and being apparently a maiden with no will of
her own, and no originality of character, and
no life beyond her own grand house, she became
naturally a copyist. 'How like her mother,'
people said ; and, though she was unlike her in
many things, still the resemblance so far as
deportment went, and little tricks of manner,
was remarkable in a girl of fourteen.

Hence the house in Regent's Park was scarcely

a lively edifice, iu the common acceptation
of the term ; the servants voted it ' orful slow,'
and only the serious ones — plucked from the
advertisements of highly respectable and exceedingly
sound religious periodicals — remained
to add to the stock of perfectibility on the
premises, and they averaged about three months
of it before giving * the old girl ' warning.

It was at the door of this house that one,
Daniel Overdown, the working-man who had
escaped death, when a government secretary
was done for — such are the ridiculous inconsistencies
of this sublunary sphere — stood one
evening waiting for admittance. He had
knocked several times, but he had arrived late
and the whole household was at prayers. There
had been no one to attend upon him till the
fifth summons, when, being a trifle suitable, he
had nearly battered-in the panels, as a final
appeal to the understandings of the worthy
souls within. Then, and not till then, a pale
young man, with smooth hair, and in deep
black, opened the door and stood in rigid uprightness
before the applicant.

*Is Mrs. Dangerfield inV asked Daniel Over-down.


She is li'in, but she will see no one at this
time of the evening.'

*No oner

I said " No one." '

I hope she will see me,' said Mr. Overdo wn ;
-* it's not particularly late, and I have come
some distance.'

In the morning, after ten, you can see the
lady, not now. Oh ! dear, no,' added the servants
very firm on this point.

Why not V asked Daniel Overdown, sharply.

It's the rule of the establishment, and the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield never alters her
rules for nobody. She'll see anybody at ten
tomorrow — a dozen of you, two dozen if you
like — but it's too late now.'

I don't see that.'

.' What V said the domestic, with a half-shriek
of amazement, * don't you understand yet V

'No, I don't.'

Daniel Overdown was in every-day costume
in Work-a-day clothes, that did not entitle

VOL. I. H

Lin to any respect from servants of extensive
establishments who wore superfine black, and
so he did not get it. Still he was not tainted,
he was an obstinate man, who could fight his
own battles when the occasion seemed necessary.


He marched into the hall in lieu of going
down a steep flight of stone steps on to the
pavement again.

Tell your mistress,' he said, very firmly,
that I Avill take my orders from her ; that my
name's Daniel Overdown, and my business is
of importance, and will not bear delay.'

Oh ! that's it. Daniel what's your name, did
you say V

Overdown — the man who met with the
accident in Derbyshire at the same time as Mr.
Dangerfield.'

Oh ! indeed,' said the man, after a long
stare at Mr. Overdown. ' Will you wait here a
moment V

The servant departed, after whispering instructions
on the stairs to servant number two,
to keep an eye on ^ the cove in corduroys ;' and

returned, not too readily, several minutes afterwards.


Mrs. Dangerfield will see you, if you please
to step this way,' he said, almost politely.

h2

CHAPTER II.

A MESSAGE FROM THE DEAD.

Mr. Daniel Overdown was not shown into the
great drawing-room, where prayers had been
read by the Honoiu-able Mrs. Dangerfield to her
daughter Estelle, to her father — at that time
staying on a visit to her — and to the servants
en masse; he was conducted into a half museum,
half library, on the first floor, where he
was left to await the arrival of the lady whose
presence he had sought.

It was a large room that, taro years and more
ago, had been the favourite sanctum of Paul
Erasmus Wilberforce Dangerfield, Esq., the
cavern wherein he had hidden himself many a
weary hour on the plea of work and study of
books, and of official business, and where he had

fenced and fought with grim truths, of which
no one in the house had dreamed.

Mr. Overdown surveyed the apartment critically,
and, as Mrs. Dangerfield did not enter an
appearance very quickly, he walked to the
books on the shelves, and read the titles of the
volumes, till a trophy of ancient swords and
pistols in the background awakened a new
spirit of inquiry ; and here, testing sword-blades
and snapping pistol-locks, was he discovered
some five minutes afterwards.

Mrs. Dangerfield and her father discovered
him. They had entered arm-in-arm, the father
leaning on the daughter's arm — a short, spare,
thin-faced, sharp-featured, high-stocked man,
eaten up by gout just then, and dragging one
slippered foot with much difficulty along with
him into the room.

Good evening,' said Mr. Overdown, making
a very respectful bow, before restoring three or
four pistols and half-a-dozen swords to their
places, which he did carefully and slowly, like a
man not at all put out by being found inspecting
this neighbour's goods.

< I am sorry to have kept you waiting Mrs.
Dangerfield said, politely, as she escorted her
father into a large library chair, into which he
subsided with difficulty, and then stared hard
at the intruder with his two thin, white hands
clasped together, as though he had not
done praying yet, and was going to finish off
his devotions before proceeding to business.

Pray, don't mention it,' answered Mr. Over-down.
' I found something to interest me
by your leave' — he added, putting away
the last sword ; ' a something in my way,
that suggested the work left behind in Birmingham.'


You come from Birmingham V

Yes.'

And were at Gravesly.'

Yes.'

Will you be seated?'

Thank you, I will.'

Daniel Overdown sat down, thrust his cap
into the capacious pocket of a heavy pilot coat,
and then looked from Mrs. Dangerfield to the
starchy and clean old gentleman facing him.

It was a sharp, comprehensive glance that
seemed to ask the reason for the gentleman's
presence, and even to suggest the deshabihty of
his absence, for Mrs. Dangerfield, seated now at
the table, trifling with an ivory paper-knife, said,
half in explanation,

My father, Lord Redclove. You may speak
before him in perfect confidence.'

Oh, Lord Redclove ; indeed I' he said, somewhat
verily. He was surprised at the advent
of a real lord, but hardly disturbed by it ; and
he made a Httle bow, which his lordship did
not condescend to return — possibly had not
seen, for he was looking down on the carpet
and still pressing the tips of all his finger's
together.

There was a pause, and Mrs. Dangerfield left
it to Mr. Overdown to continue the conversation,
and state the nature of his business. She did
not ask what had brought him to the house,
she might already guess that it appertained to
a terrible time of past calamity, but there was
no curiosity or anxiety expressed upon her
handsome, passive face. He had seen a statue

with more interest stamped upon its marble
countenance. Perhaps she thought he had
come to ask assistance from her, and for himself,
and that kept him tongue-tied. That
would not do, at any rate.

He gave a quick cough at last, and began.
Even then he did not dash at the subject uppermost
in his mind, but led up to it for the
lady's sake, though she never knew that, and
never thanked him for it. He was a considerate
man, after his fashion.

It is two years ago, lady, since you and
I met in a little village in Derbyshire,' he
said.

The lady's long lashes quivered faintly, but
she made no reply.

You were in trouble then, with a bigger
trouble not far off, and I was sorry to see it.
In my own humble Avay, of course,' he added,
deferentially, as he fancied, keen observer that
he was, that the face grew colder and prouder
as he gazed at it ; ' but still sorry for anyone
with a mind bothered by doubts as yom-s
was.'

'That time is past, sir,' she said, severely;
you have not called here to tell me of yom-sorrow.'


No, that's true.'

The man was still perplexed, it was evident ;
he had a difficult task before him, and, in the
face of this strong apathy, he scarcely knew how
to set about it.

You asked me several questions, if you remember,
Mrs. Dangerfield ; you were suspicious
of me — imagined 1 was in your husband's confidence,
and so forth.'

I have not forgotten.'

At the time I could not have answered one
question to set your mind at rest, or make it
more uneasy. Mr. Danger-field's life was as
much a mystery to me as any of those Greek
books. What he wanted at Culverley, Heaven
and himself knew, not I, at that time. Now,'
he added, after a slight pause, ' had you asked
me twenty-four hours afterwards, I should have
been better informed, if equally uncommunicative.'


Mrs. Dangerfield's curiosity was not aroused

or else she had become of late clays very self-expressive.
She did not change colour, did
not raise her eyelids from the dark, lustrous
eyes, did not glance at him, but fidgeted with
the paper-knife, and listened; that was all.
Mrs. Dangerfield's father was looking at the
speaker again, with great intentness in his
keen grey eyes, but Daniel Overdown did
not take heed of him. He had given fair
warning that his visit there was connected
with the past, and this woman, shrouded in
black crape, must be prepared now for something
which he had come from Birmingham
to say.

Lord Redclove spoke at last, but with considerable
politeness, to his daughter.

Frances, if you would allow me to withdraw,
I think that you will be perfectly safe with this
young man ; and there may be details of Paul's
past life which you might even prefer my not
listening to.'

There is nothing to conceal,' she murmured ;
you know all — you guessed all long ago.'

But still there may be little facts— little incidents
— which '

He paused, and she answered his unfinished
sentence very quickly.

No. Stay, please ; I would prefer your not
leaving me,' she said.

'Very well,' said Lord Redclove, with great
urbanity. Then he looked towards Mr. Over-down,
by way of permission to resume his narrative,
and Mr. Overdown continued :

I think I could have got over this uncomfortable
job better without you sir,' he said, bluntly,
and forgetting his lordship's title utterly ; forgetting
even that he had been already informed
the gentleman was a lord ; ' what relates to the
husband had better be told to the wife, and left
for her to consider — at least that is my way of
looking at it ; but it is a complicated case, and
who sees the best way out of it, has more brains
than I have.'

Pray, never mind your brains, my good man ;
you have heard that Mrs. Dangerfield requests
my company at this juncture,' said Lord Red-clove,
scarcely above his breath.

Yes, I have heard it. But you are her father,
you see, not his. 1 ^vish to Heaven you had
been his,' he blurted forth.

Mrs. Dangerfield shivered at this exclamation
and Lord Redclove said, coolly,

Mr. Dangerfield's father has been dead some
years.'

And his mother?'

His mother is in a lunatic asylum, poor woman,'
Lord Eedclove condescended to explain.

Ah ! that's bad,' said Daniel Overdown ; ' anything's
better than that, in the way of ailments,
I take it. Well, then, it's time we got to business.'


Quite time,' assented Lord Kedclove.

Daniel glanced at him again ; he did not lille
his lordship suddenly assuming the post of
spokesman — standing between himself and the
dead man's wife ; blocking up the way, as it
were, to the heart he had been sanguine enough
to think he could touch by the plain recital of
a few miserable facts. He had a strong fear
now upon him that he should fail in his mission,
and that it would be this sharp-faced man's
fault, unless he were extra-clever, extra-earnest,
and worked very hard in a cause foreign to his
own life and pursuits.

He edged his chair nearer to the lady whom
he was determined to address ; and his lordship,
for the first time, evinced considerable alacrity in
the quick movement which placed his swollen
foot out of harm's way of Mr. Overdown's progress
across the carpet.

After you had left Gravesly — on the following
morning Mr. Dangerfield sent for me.'

'Yow. lore in his confidence, then,' she said,
with faint surprise.

There you mistake, as I have said already,'
he replied ; ' but you had unsettled him ; the
nurse told me he could not rest, and there came
to him in the morning the grim fact that he had
changed for the worse. He wanted a friend
and, oddly enough, he could only think of me —
snatched at me, as a drowning man snatches at
straws, they say. Strange, this V

He was a strange man,' murmured the
widow, as if in excuse for his eccentric conduct.

I have often fancied he was not quite right
in his head that day, and that he thought some
kind of tie, originating in the railway spill we
had had together, existed between us : at all

events, he was hard-up for a confidant, and lie
took me for an honest man — which was correct
enough, at least,' he added, naively.

And he told you — ' said Lord Redclove, becoming
impatient, and anxious to get at the pith
of the story.

He wanted an important message to be
delivered to friends he had at Culverley — he was
travelling to Culverley when the smash occuiTcd,
you know V

Mrs. Dangerfield made a faint inclination of
her widow's cap towards the speaker. She was
paler and sterner of aspect now, Daniel Over-down
considered.

He was in trouble about iJiem, and they were
in trouble when he left for Culverley; the
mother was in the habit of receiving money
annually from his hands ; at times, a good
deal of money. Neither mother nor children
knew his real position from first to last ; he
was a mystery to them as to you — a miserable
mystery enough ; but there it was to
work mischief both ways — a sword with two
edges.'

'And you come at last to strike me mali it!'
said Mrs. Dangerfield, more mom-filly than
warmly, and yet with a little flutter of suppressed
indignation in her voice.

Well,' he answered, ' I would interest you, if
possible, in these poor children.'

Impossible,' she said, very passionately, at
last.

Don't say that.'

Impossible.'

His children who have done no harm, and
whom only great care and some money may be
able to save.'

I would not see them or interfere in their
affairs for the world,' said Mrs. Dangerfield,
shuddering ; ' I have never heard of them till
now — they can never be anything but outcasts
and lepers with no right to exist.'

The volcano had given sign of the fire within
at last ; the paper-knife snapped in two beneath
the reckless hand, and the Regent's Park saint
was more of a woman, and a deeply injured
woman, than ordinary. She had not pardoned
the poor sinner sleeping in his coffin. Daniel

Overdown saw this at once — how could he expect
that she would have mercy on these offshoots
of society rising np like ghosts from her
husband's grave ?

There has been given them a right to exist,
I suppose, madam,' said Daniel Overdown,

gravely, ' and we must not But there, I have

not come to preach.'

'Certainly not, certainly not, my good man,
we don't want any preaching here,' said Lord
Redclove, who felt that he had had enough of
it in that establishment from legitimate sources.
'Where is the mother of these — these — children?
Why doesn't she look after them V

She's dead,' was the answer.

Mrs. Dangerfield had subsided again into
quiescence ; this time the safety valve had been
securely fastened down, and only a faint elevation
of the eyebrows was a sign of how every
fresh item of news affected her.

Dead,' echoed Lord Redclove, complacently,
ah ! well, that is perfectly satisfactory — we
have no objection to that. Her children will be
well looked aftpv by the parish — all that rhodomontade

which gets into the papers about
parochial neglect is the merest fiction — they mil
be looked after carefully, I have no doubt, and
be put in the way of earning a respectable living

You know nothing about it, sir,' said Daniel
Overdown, shortly.

Lord Kedclove was astonished at this abrupt
assertion, but he, too, had the gentlemanly art
of self-repression admirably developed. He
settled his chin in his voluminous white stock,
and said,

I should have thought that you, Mr. Over-down
— a man of some intelligence, and above
your class a little ; a man of the world, too —
might have considered that that lady,' pointing
to his daughter, ' was the last person whom
delicacy should have prompted you to visit
inter these objectionable circumstances.'

It was his wish that I should come here some
day, if the children were in trouble, or if the
mother died ; and his wish, has been on my mind
a good deal lately,' answered Daniel.

Why did he not tell the woman ' began

Mrs. Dangerfield.

VOL. I. I

Pardon me, but he never saw her after his
marriage With yon said Daniel Overdown, interrupting
her. ' I have just said so.'

Pardon me, sii*,' she said, haughtily, ' bnt I
do not believe you.'

*I had it from Mr. Dangerfield's own lips,
when lies Avonld have been very hard to pass
them. I had it from a dying woman who had
asked forgiveness of her Maker at the eleventh
hour, and got it,' he added-with impressive
emphasis.

Mrs. Dangerfield shuddered again at Mr.
Overdown's impiety, but did not comment upon
it. She glanced towards her father, as if leaving
the rest of the conversation to him, and crossed
her hands, saint-wise, upon her bosom, although
her hands pressed heavily upon the heart
beneath, whose throbbing she was not quite
able to subdue.

It is a painful story,' said Lord Redclove,
but we must not pursue it further. My daughter
has quite made up her mind not to be dragged
into this business, either morally or pecuniarily.
I believe, my dear, I make this statement with
your full permission V ,

Yes,' replied Mrs. Dangerfield, in a whisper
again.

And this lady is a mother, too,' muttered the
mechanic, as he rose baffled in his mission, and
not seeing his way ahead, clear-sighted man ashe
was in many things.

Mrs. Dangerfield rose with him, and was the
first to quit the room without another question
to her visitor, who opened the door for her with
a strange exhibition of courtesy and allowed
her to precede him. He bowed to her as she
swept past him in her deep mourning for ' the
man of whose last wish she had heard that
night.

Daniel Overdown was following her, when
Lord Redclove's voice, sharp and clear, stopped
him on the threshold.

Stay,' he said, peremptorily.

What is the use V

I wish it. I have something to say now.'

CHAPTER III.

FURTHER PARTICULARS.

Daniel Overdown looked back into the room
and hesitated. He was not anxious to renew
conversation with this man who had done his
best, or his worst, to mar the fortunes of those
in whom the mechanic had grown interested of
late days.

Don't go yet,' said Lord Redclove, ' men can
speak more freely together. Favors me by resuming
your place for a few minutes, if you
please, Mr. Overgrown.'

Ovevdoion — and at your service thence said
he, shutting the door and returning reluctantly
to his seat.

Lord Redclove took his chin out of the white

folds of his cravat, and leaned forward with
more animation on bis aristocratic countenance.


I don't think, young man, that you could
have made a falser move in domestic policy than
to come to a man's wife and ask assistance for
the offspring of the man's mistress.'

Why V asked Overdown, laconically.

You shut your eyes to woman's natural
weakness — jealousy.'

Ah! I don't understand women— I have had
very little to do with them all my life,' said the
mechanic, petulantly, ' they talk like children —
and act like children.'

With one or two bright exceptions in the
History of England rather than in the history of
human life,' added Lord Redclove, sententiously.
* But — to business.'

He leaned back in his old complacent attitude,
and put the tips of his fingers together
after his usual habit. Daniel Overdown, or his
mission, interested the nobleman — perhaps he
was a friend at the eleventh hour to help him
after all, thought the gunsmith.

Yon have not said anything about these
waifs,' said Lord Redclove, dispassionately, * and
yon can hardly expect me to take an interest in
the children of a man who deceived my daughter
all his life. Still, " Man is liable to err,'^
says the philosopher, and I look at editor myself
compassionately, knowing how ridiculously
natural it is, and what weak donkeys we all
are.'

He shrugged his shoulders at some painful
reminiscence which time had not weakened and
age had rendered objectionable, and then asked
almost with closed eyes, and in a tone more indolent
and unnatural,

How many are there V

Two.'

Boys or girls V

A boy — and a girl.'

Humph — awkward,' said Lord Redclove ;
Avhat are they doing — where are they?'

He — the boy,' said Daniel, after a moment's
hesitation, not lost upon his questioner, for all
his nonchalant attitude, ' is tramping about
Liverpool earning a living as best he may, by

singing in public-houses and at the corners of
streets.'

'Good God!'

That's the truth of it.'

How old is he V

Sixteen — perhaps a little more.'

Too old a gamin to be snatched from the
gutters,' muttered the nobleman.

This is only of late days — for a few months,
perhaps, and since his mother's death,' said
Daniel, quickly ; ' he Alas not brought up in that
fashion — he is '

And then Daniel came to a full stop.

He is not to be trusted, 1 suppose V

Not yet confessed the mechanic, ' but then,
sir, look at his chances — or, rather, at the
chances against him. If we could save him
from all this — get him to sea — send him into a
new land, where there is more energy and less
temptation — open out to him a new world altogether?'


Have you tried to help him V

Once or twice.'

Lately V

Lately I have been on strike,' said Daniel
Overdo wn, ' and unable to help myself.'

That's bad.'

Yes, very bad.'

Yoii found means to get to London, seemingly?'


I raised the means — on a watch,' added Daniel,
coolly.

And for this fools-errand V

Yes. It was a promise to the father ; and
these children have harassed me of late days.
It seemed easy to save them and yet so hard to
get anyone to help me.'

'I daresay. Sensible people,' said Lord Red-clove,
caustically, 'leave the art of reforming
the vagabond to those wise folk With nasty
tastes, who have studied the vagabond all their
lives. Let us come to the girl.'

You don't see your way to do anything for
the boy ?' asked Overdo wn.

Upon my honour, no.'

Then I have nothing to tell you of the girl,'
said Overdown, firmly, as he jumped to his feet
again ; * her life will not affect you, only harden

your heart against her. I have not come to
hold np two wretched orphans to the sneers of
fine people. Good evening.'

'Yon are hasty, Mr. Overdown — yon are
acting injudiciously ; yon are not doing your
best for the children,' said Lord Redclove.

Mr. Overdown paused again on his way to
the door ; perhaps he was not. This was an
odd old man who said sharp things, and seemed
dead to charitable impressions, bnt he was very
curious, and probably rich enough to do something
for the unfortunates. Moreover, Lord
Redclove seemed a little excited now, despite
his mocking tongue and hard manner ; his white
tie had got twisted under his ears by the restless
motion of his chin, and the right hand, With the
big diamond on it, was surely clutching his Ivuee
tightly. Ah ! that was the pain of the gout,
perhaps.

I fear I have done my best, sir,' Daniel
answered, sorrowfully ; ' but I have failed.
I should have trusted my case to Mr. Fare's
hands, as he wished it. I was too conceited
about this.'

Never mind Mr. Fayre. I don't know, and I
don't care, who the devil he is, and there is no
necessity to drag anyone else into the discussion.
About the girl now V

'I would rather not tell you, if you have
made up your mind as firmly as your daughter
has,' said Overdown, doubtfully.

Well, then,' said his lordship, petulantly, ' I
have not made up my mind.'

Come, I am glad, sir, for both their sakes,'
cried Daniel, cheerfully now ; 'it did not seem
fair that I should jon-ney all this way, and
bring the dead man's message, and be baulked
altogether.'

You cannot tell what seems fair at present.
Where is the girl?' asked Lord Redclove,
again.

In prison,' answered the gunsmith.

CHAPTER IV.

THE RESULT.

The communication was too much for Lord
Redclove, or for that nobleman's good resolutions
of being of benefit to the afflicted and
distressed. Had Mr. Overdown taken down one
of those old pistols in the trophy of arms before
him, loaded it, and fired it at his lordship, he
could not, to all appearance, have surprised and
shocked the father of Mrs. Dangerfield more
completely. Lord Redclove took a long, deep
breath, his grey eyes protruded, as though a
hand had gripped him by the throat, and his
face was full of a horror and consternation that
the gunsmith would have never given it credit
for expressing, judging by its sphinx-like

stolidity of a few minutes back. Still it was a
momentary shock — callous natures may be surprised
at unforeseen times in this way — and, before
Daniel Overdown had done wondering, his
lordship was himself again. A figure in a phantasmagoria
could not have changed more quickly,
or been in greater contrast to its last grimace.

It was the old, smooth, calm voice, the old,
calm deportment, that Daniel Overdown had to
confront again. Curiosity had been satisfied ;
the girl's miserable fate shown ; the story, minus
the details, which Lord Redclove did not care
to hear now, made plain from the beginning
to the end.

So bad as this,' said his lordship ; * so utterly
past hope, both of them.'

So bad as this, but not past hope,' answered
the other.

There is nothing to be done, my good man !'

I perceive that now,' said Daniel, drily.

He was at the door again, when once more
the short, sharp crack of Lord Redclove's voice
brought him to a standstill.

Stop a minute, can't you V

Daniel stopped.

You are a hasty and ill-tempered kind of
young fellow,' this lordship continued, ' and are
likely to do more harm than good in this Quixotic
enterprises

I do not think so.'

There is no repose about you.'

I am a working-man,' answered Over down ;
I have no time for repose.'

That is no reason why you should always be
in such a devil of a hurry, sir,' remarked this
lordship.

Well, perhaps not.'

Where are you going now "?'

Back to Birmingham.'

What part of Birmingham V

700, Pressed Street'

Lord Redclove was silent for a moment, and
appeared to reflect upon this information. Then
he said,

The address is of no use to me, but I will
bear it in mind.'

Hadn't you better make a note of it?' suggested
Dan.

'AVhyf

To-morrow it might enter you head to be
merciful.'

I am not an unmerciful man,' observed Lord
Kedclove, as if anxious to dispel any false impression
which the visitor might have conceived
of him.

That is good news.'

Still, as it is — don't fidget with that door-handle,
man, but try to listen patiently, for
Good's sake,' he added, petulantly — 'still, as it
is, pray understand me once and for all, speaking
for myself, as well as for the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield, that we respectfully, but positively,
decline further discussion on the subject.
The children are not entitled to our sympathy ,
and are even beyond our help. We do not
desire to be troubled by them any more, we do
not care to know anything about them, and we
must not be annoyed at any future period by
applications on their behalf.'

Is that all you have to say, my lord V asked
the gunsmith.

Yes, and 1 hope you understand.'

Perfectly,' answered Mr. Overclown ; ' and, if
you had spoken ont as plainly as this when you
first came into the room, I might have saved
you a heap of time.'

I wished to learn all the facts,' repeated
his lordship. 'I did not want you to tell
your people that we had been too proud to hear
you.'

Only too proud to help — is that it V

Too wise,' corrected his lordship, ' assuredly
too wise, my good fellow, to recognise a claim
of this description.'

Yes, you were the wi-long lot to come to,' said
Daniel Overdown.

The ^vi'ong lot !' exclaimed the nobleman ;
great heavens, what an expression.'

*If his mother hadn't been in a mad-house,
now,' continued Dan, reflectively, ' or there were
any friends of his about the world to whom I
could tell this story'

'They would all laugh at you,' said Lord
Eedclove.

Not to my face, I fancy,' answered Daniel,
meaningly.

Ah, well, it is not my business, I perceive ;
and so good evening, my good man,' concluded
his lordship, airily. ' I Avish you a mission
more profitable to yourself on a future occasion.'


And what shall I wish you in the future, sir,
and when your time is up V said Daniel, in a
sharp, clear voice that startled the white-haired
man again, though he only blinked at
his questioner.

I don't require any good Lavishes from you,^
he said, haughtily enough now, ' and I shall be
glad if you will retire.'

I wish you a trifle more charity for yourself
and your past than you have condescended to
show for other folk — that's all ;' and with this
parting salutation Daniel Overdown shot out of
the room.

Outside the apartment a new comer upon the
scene aroused for the nonce a faint amount of
interest. This was a young man of one or two-and-twenty,
very sallow and very dark, who
came up the carpeted stairs two steps at a time,
as Daniel Overdown flew down them. The

new-comer was in haste, but he had time to
look closely and curiously at the gunsmith ashe
passed him, and to change his position
politely and adroitly from the centre of the
stairs to the hand-rail, so that the man descending
might not find him in the way, or topple
him over in his downward rush. He even
looked after Mr. Overdown without pausing
in his ascent, but this extra attention was
lost upon Daniel, who went, like a lapwing,
out of the house, still burdened and perplexed
by the problem now too deep for him to
solve.

]meanwhile the dark young man walked
briskly into the study, where Lord Redclove
was sitting, with his hands clasped on his knees,
and his shaggy white eyebrows lowering over
his keen eyes.

Ah ! Hamilton,' the nobleman said, half reproachfully,
' you have come at last, then, to share
the horrors of this dreadful house with me. How
d'ye dor

The two men shook hands together in languid
fashion.

VOL. I. K

I started from Paris an hour after your letter
reached me,' said the younger, as if by way of
explanation.

'What the deuce did you want in Paris?'
asked Lord Redclove, fretfully.

I was hipped to death at the Cedars, and
there were friends in Paris.'

There are friends in London.'

Hamilton did not contradict this assertion, but
he looked as if he doubted it.

Have you seen your cousin Frances V asked
his lordship.

Yes, uncle.'

Is she praying again V he asked, "smith a shiver.

I don't know. She has a prayer-book in her
lap, I fancy.'

To think that this infernal gout should have
seized me here, of all places in the world,' said
Lord Redclove, fiercely.

Where a daughter's kindness and attention
must have been of inestimable service in yom-affliction,
my lord,' added his nephew.

Oh ! yes, in their way ; a little, perhaps asserted
Lord Kedclove ; ' but you cannot conceive,

Hamilton — yon have not the slightest conception
- — what this house is like. It runs over with
clergymen ; they are here at all hours of the day ;
they lunch here, dine here, pray here — they will
not let even me alone. By God ! they give me
tracts !'

You are a prisoner, and must bear with them
for a while, uncle,' said the young man, laughing
outright at last ; ' but here is your nephew Hamilton
to the rescue — a defender against the
Faith !'

Ah ! well, well, I am glad you have come,'
said the old man, with a sigh of relief; ' not that
you will be of the slightest use to me, though ;
for,' he added, lowering his voice, ' I want all your
tact, and power of observation, and acuteness —
if you have any,' he added, drily— turned in
another direction.'

I am at your service,' replied the dark young
man, readily enough. ' What can I do V

You must start tomorrow for Liverpool.'

That's an out-of-the-Avay place for me,' remarked
Hamilton ; ' but you have a particular
reason for all this, of course V

k2

A most important reason.'

Doubtless,' replied his nephew. ' I am all
attention.'

It is the old business.'
Ah !'

It turns out that Pan! Danger-field had two
children by that woman, and that both have gone
to the bad.'

Poor devils I' was Hamilton's reply.

A man has been here about them to-night.'

I met him jumping down the stairs, I think ;
a savage looking fellow.'

A fellow who begged hard, but whom it
would not be policy for us to encourage in any
Avay,' replied Lord Redclove ; ' we can't be forever
pestered with applications for assistance to
these Wretched waifs.'

Certainly not,' asserted Hamilton, ' at least I
should say not.'

And Mrs. Dangerfield is very firm on this
point, too,' added Lord Redclove.

And very womanly — considering all things.'

Yes — there is as little false sentiment about
Frances as there is about me,' was the reply.

^ She looks practically at life, and that is saying
a great deal for a woman of four-and-thirty with
a church on her mind. She hates the very
mention of these outcasts' names.'
I am not surprised.'

For what have we to do with these miserable
who spring up in this way to annoy the family
what are they to us ?'
Nothing.'

And yet that troublesome, 1 might almost
say impudent fellow who has just left me, thinks
they are something to us, because Paul was
anxious about them a few moments before he
died — when a man is always absurdly incoherent
and implored him to come here under certain
circumstances.'

And those circumstances have arisen V asked
Hamilton.

Yes, the children want help. The boy is on

the streets, and the girl,' he added with a visible

shudder, ' is in prison. A ch*eadful pair.'

Very dreadful, I should say.'

Still, I think,' he added, hesitatingly, * I

should Hke them to have one chance of bettering

themselves — and you have turned up at the
exact moment to assist me in this matter.'

In what way can I assist you, uncle V

I will tell you in a minute. Please, do not
hurry me.'

Lord Redclove was in no particular haste to
enter into the details of his plans ; he was evidently
perplexed still, and sat with his eyes
closed, and with the tips of the fingers of his
left hand still pressed against the tips of the
fingers of his right hand, thinking out the position.
He remained silent for so long a period
that Hamilton ventured to remind him by a cough
that he was not telling him anything at present.

The old man looked up keenly at this.

I haven't gone to sleep,' he said. *■ I am deliberating,
Hamilton, but you are always in such
an infernal state of effervescence,' said Lord
Redclove, tetchily. ' There is not that fair
amount of calm attention and regard for your
superiors in years which I think I am entitled to
expect from you.'

I am sorry, my lord ; I '

*You can perceive very plainly I daresay,.

when Ton come to perceive anything, that it is
not poetic to drag me personally into this affair,'
he continued, ' that, in fact, to be mixed np in
it, in any way, is to establish a precedent which
might be very difficult, at some fntnre time, to
set aside or disown.'

Yes — I think I see that,' was the prompt
reply.

Of course, I don't Avant to be wonted. And
I will not be worried, either.'

I believe your lordship was never fond of
worry.'

Precisely so. But — who the devil is T

There are a few people, perhaps, who '

That'll do, Hamilton,' he interrupted. ' I am
not sitting here to be enlivened by any of your
abstruse dissertations on the most ridiculous
subjects. They will not amuse me, and they
will tire you very much. I had hoped you had
dropped that objectionable habit of yours. I
want,' he added, leaning over and touching his
nephew's arm confidentially, ' you to listen, not
talk. I will do the talking, with your kind
approval, sir.'

I am all attention,' said Hamilton, with the
suspicion of a frown upon his dark face asserting
itself for the first time.

I want you to leave tomorrow for Liverpool,'
said Lord Redclove, ' that I have told you, I
think.'

I have already had the honour to receive
your lordship's commands in that direction,' the
nephew replied, with possibly a shade too much
politeness.

You will find this boy of the name of
Challis. There are plenty of police there to
assist you. There will not be much difficulty in
the search — you will see him for yourself, report
to me by telegraph what he is doing and likely
to do, and with whom he is. You will make
every inquiry about the girl, who is in prison
at present. They must have money, too,
presently — 1 will arrange all that.'

Very good.'

You will see the girl in prison even — if it is
possible.'

Very well. You think of assisting them after
all then, my lord V

To an extent,' was bis tingle's cautions reply.
To a certain extent, and under certain conditions
that may be required of them.'

Exactly.'

I don't want the boy or girl to think that I
have been talked or tricked out of as much asa
penny-piece in their favour.'

That may be difficult to conceal.'

I do not want to appear interested — I am
not interested, and I do not want that dreadful
man from Birmingham to knoAv anything of our
intentions,' his lordship continued.

Very well,' said Hamilton again.

And, above all , I do not want your cousin
Frances to know.'

Not Frances, even V

No.'

She might think presently you had deceived
her in feigning a lack of interest in those children
of Paul's, to Avhom your generous heart is now
turning,' said Hamilton, gravely and earnestly,
so gravely and earnestly that Lord Redclove
shot a keen glance from beneath his bushy white
eyebrows at the speaker.

I have informed you just now that I am not
interested,' said Lord Redclove, shai'plj, ' surely
you do not imagine I am T

It is certainly the first time,' replied Hamilton,
that I remember your lordship anxious to distribute
charity to the undeserving. Taking it
for granted,' he added, * that these people are
undeserving, of course.'

You take too much for granted, Hamilton —
always.'

And with reference to money matters V

I will communicate with you by telegraph —
wire back," as those dreadful commercials say,
I believe. You have not found out these children
yet. When you have,' he added, ' let me
know exactly every detail concerning them, and
how far in your opinion they may be trusted.'

I will do so.'

'Your opinion may not be worth a great
deal, but you will be able to see, I hope, if they
are worth keeping out of the way, or will promise
to keep out of the way, and not harass the
family any more by their unjustifiable appeals
for sympathy.'

I will do my best to supply yon with every
information.'

I daresay you'll make a nice mess of it remarked
the impolite old gentleman ; ' yon have
too high an opinion of your own abilities, Hamilton,
to succeed to my entire satisfaction, I am
afraid. But,' he added, after a moment's further
consideration of the subject, 'you're not
quite a fool; far from a fool, I might say, at
times,' he muttered.

'Probably there are many friends of yours
who could do this business better,' snapped
Hamilton.

Oh, indubitably. But I have no friends to
whom I can ti-must the secret of these children's
existence. Friends never keep secrets, Hamilton
; on the contrary, they run about and blaze
them right and left — idiots with torches in a
powder-mill. Hence,' he cried, apologetically,
I entrust this mission to you, and good-luck go
With you, as the Irish say.'

CHAPTER V.

IN SEARCH OF SAM CHALLIS.

Lord Redclove's instructions to his nephew
having been tolerably explicit and sufficiently
positive, Hamilton, despite many inward objections
to the task thus suddenly imposed upon
him, set out for Liverpool the next morning with
an assumed air of cheerfulness, as though his
uncle's behests were a pleasure as well as a duty
to him.

Hamilton Redclove had much to expect from
his uncle besides the title, which there seemed
no keeping from him, and the land, which, by
the law of entail, must fall to his share. He
was a far-seeing young man in his way, naturally
suave and agreeable, who took the good

things of life with an easy grace, and allowed
very little to disturb his equanimity. He loved
his uncle only tolerably well, though he took no
small degree of pains to humour his peculiarities,
out of pure respect to his late father's
brother, some people thought ; in order to win
his way to a share in Lord Redclove's private
possessions, invidious folk had been heard to
assert.

Possibly there was a little affection and some
self-consideration combined, if it were worth
while to sift the motives of our young heir at
this juncture ; for Hamilton Kedclove was only
moderately selfish. He had been brought up
with an idea that the world reverenced the
Redcloves, and that the Redcloves Avere great
folk on its surface ; and that this notion had not
utterly spoiled him, says a great deal for the
natural disposition of the gentleman under discussion.
That he had an excellent opinion of
himself, we need not assert, after this shadowy
analysis ; and that there were eccentric traits of
character crossing and re-crossing the commonplace
material of which he was chiefly

composed, our readers will see for themselves
during the progress of this story. His uncle
had every confidence in him — had helped to
spoil him, the world said — and he had every
confidence in his uncle. Hence these two
agreed fairly well together, thanks to Hamilton's
policy of making life pleasant by sinking
all difference of opinion in deep water, and
allowing his uncle plenty of fair sailing-room
for his particular crotchets.

It is this young man, then — keen-witted,
observant, not ill-natured — whom we find in the
streets of Liverpool two nights following the
date of our preceding chapter. He had an
awkward mission to fulfil, and he set about it
without a protest, not too anxious about results
and . not too curious concerning the motives
which planted him in that busy, colossal city.
There were disreputable people to be got rid of
to be coaxed, or bribed, into an eternal background,
for his first cousin's sake ; and Lord
Kedclove had trusted to his tact and energy.
He should not like his lordship to trust in vain
to those equalities ; he would be glad to return

and say, ' I have been successful, the first
difficulty is overcome ; see how right you were
to leave it in the hands of so clever a fellow as
I ami'

Having begun his task, he had grown to a
certain extent interested in the chase of, or the
search for, one Samuel Challis — a nondescript
being, supposed to be earning his living by
concertina-playing in the streets of Liverpool,
and to be discovered in those streets after dark
by anyone vigilantly disposed. Hamilton had
searched for himself the night before, and been
baffled; hence his amour propre was piqued
somewhat. He had not bargained for the size
of Liverpool, the multiplicity of its streets, the
labyrinthian character of its slums, and the
pertinacity with which every gamin in Liverpool
plays the concertina in his leisure moments,
probably more for the benefit of his species, than
with any hope of great gain for himself.

Hamilton Redclove, baffled in his search the
jBrst evening of his arrival, went to work in
more business-like fashion on the second day.
He called at the station-house, made many inquiries,

and obtained one piece of information
which was important — that Sam Challis was
known to the police, very well known indeed.
He had not been locked up, although he had
been threatened With the terrors of a ' run in '
more than half-a-dozen times. He was a youth
who defied official authority, or who aggravated
it by feigning obedience to its mandates for
exactly as long a period as the official eye was
upon him ; a boy that would eventually come to
grief, and who was hard to impress or move on.
An insolent boy, moreover, was Sam Challis,
with a great deal to say for himself, and for ever
disposed to argue any point upon which society
and he differed a little — the sleeping in a shady
doorway, out of the cold ^vinds which swept
from the Mersey into the dark streets by the
docks with a hundred thousand carving-knife
power ; the loitering on the landing-stage for a
job, he said, — for a pocket-handkerchief, or a
stray bundle, distrustful folk thought ; the playing
of lugubrious strains in a wrong key before
public-houses, hotels, chapels — anywhere, until
it was worth some one's while to bribe or scare
him into the next street.

Hamilton was furnished with a description of
him, but this availed him not — there were so
many lank, hungry, bare-footed nomads about
the Irish quarters of the town, where it was
thought Sam might probably be discovered,
between the hours of nine and twelve p.m. Sam
had taken to the Irish quarter lately, and the
Irish had taken to him ; he had a connection
amongst them on Saturday evenings when
wages had been paid, and drink and wages
were plentiful, but it was not in Hamilton's
power to discover him, until a message arrived
at his hotel — from a policeman, who secretly
hoped that a liberal ' tip ' would follow the information
— that Samuel Challis was playing
that evening at the 'Harp Tap,' in a certain
narrow turning out of Byron Street, doing
deputy for the regular band, i.e., old Cuppleditch,
the fiddler, who had been struck ' all of a heap '
with typhoid fever only the afternoon before.

Hamilton Kedclove was offered the assistance
of an able detective officer, but he politely declined
it ; he was warned that the * Harp ' was a
disputatious establishment, and hardly a safe

VOL. I. L

place for a gentleman to visit who lead anything
to lose, but he said that he was not afraid of
being hurt, and would prefer prosecuting his
studies alone. Then a sovereign Alas exchanged,
and the lord's nephew was left to his own
resources.

It was between fen and eleven o'clock at
night when Hamilton was close upon the object
of his search. The streets were full of people,
the innumerable drinking-houses of a hard-drinking
quarter of the borough were crowded
with their noisy, quarrelsome, poverty-stricken
atoms of humanity. The gaslight was streaming
from windows and doors, and from the huge,
coloured glass barrels swung above the entrances
; there were three or four fights in the
roadway, the Irish brogue was rising high and
fast above the Lancashire dialect, the police
were busy, one or two were bleeding at the nose
and on the cheek bones from an extra grand
affray that had just been concluded as Hamilton
arrived upon the scene, all the bustle and activity
of drink, and squalor, and crime were rife
in this strange portion of the town on that

especial occasion. It was a life new to the lord's
nephew, and he watched it with interest, and
with a courage, too, for which he had hardly-given
himself credit. It was an acting drama,
and amused him — it was as completely out of
his sphere as fairy-land, or rather as the demon-land
in a pantomime where the shadows are
dense and the masks are always hideous. These
masks approached him closely at times and
red eyes glared menacingly at him, but he
pursued his way coolly to the end, his blood
warmed a little by the novelty of his adventure.

He had been discreet enough to dress for the
occasion, to disguise himself, as he considered,
by taking a hothouse flower from his buttonhole,
putting on a ' billy-cock ' in lieu of his
highly glazed silk hat from Bond Street, and
turning up the collar of his black stout ; but
he was a stranger in the midst of the crowd,
and the crowd knew it.

He was conscious of being hustled at last, ashe
crossed a street where fifty men and boys
were absorbed in the task of aggravating a
bdnnetless old Irishwoman, garrulous and blast



phemoiis with whisky, and when he discovered
a strange hand at his waistcoat pocket, feeling
for the watch he had prudently left at his hotel,
he was still self-possessed and cool. He seized
the man nearest to him by the arm, and stopped
him in the horse-play in which he was indulging.


Where is the " Harp Tap," mate V he asked
with easy familiarity.

" Arp "what do you want at the " Arp " V
snarled the man addressed.

A pal. Here's a tanner for showing me the
place,' said Hamilton, producing the sixpence
with alacrity.'

'Right yer air. Come on — this way, yer
honor. " Arp," yer said — didn't yer ? Good's
truth, there it is, staring yer in yer face, all the
while, at the top of the blessed street yonder.
Thanked.'

The man had indicated the house in question,
and Hamilton went up a narrow turning, thick
with road and vegetable refuse, towards a
light burning in a red glass lamp — a danger
signal that made him pause for the first time.

I don't particularly admire the look of it,' he
said, to himself, but he went on slowly again
till the ' Harp ' was reached, and he discovered it
to be a grimy public house, with sing glass
doors that as they opened and shut disclosed a
bar beyond, where men and women were drinking,
and a partition behind which was a babel
of sound, of stamping of feet, and hoarse shouting,
and women's cockatoo screeching, and the
asthmatic grind, grind of a concertina attempting
a polka kind of air with indifferent
success.

Hamilton Redclove leaned his back against
the opposite house, and thought he liked the
look of the ' Harp ' less than ever on a closer
acquaintance, and regretted now that the services
of the detective had not been engaged
when the chance had presented itself a short
time since. He was tolerably brave, but he did
not care to face poor humanity — especially Irish
humanity — in its cups, and when disposed topick
its own quarrels with a well-to-do Saxon.
Pie was alone in an awful world of which he
had only read in books and knew nothing personally,

and for a whim of his uncle's, which
might change at a moment's notice, as his lordship's
whims did occasionally, he was expected
to risk his own respectable neck. He did not
quite relish entering the ' Harp ' — but then he did
not care to abandon the quest now that he was
on the brink of discovery.

Here goes,' he said at last, courageously — ■
and the step required a considerable amount of
moral courage for a young man of his degree.
They can't murder a man to polka music, I
suppose, and I have not brought much to be
robbed of.'

He crossed the road and entered the tavern
pushing back the spring doors, and forcing-his
way through the dram-drinkers to the hot
stifling room beyond, Adhere women with bare
feet and men with Lancashire clogs seemed
endeavouring to shake the house doAvn by the
vigour of their dancing. The place was heavy
with tobacco fumes, and it was not at once that
Hamilton became accustomed to the atmosphere,
the stifling heat, and the blinding cloud
of smoke and dust that rose up as from a smouldering

fire to choke the inmates. He groped
his way towards the end of the room where the
music sounded — men pushed against him again,
and women snatched at his arm, laughed in his
face and asked him for drink ; but he passed
on towards the musician and sat down in a vacant
chair at the table on which the concertina-player
was grotesquely perched.

At the same time as Hamilton Kedclove looked
at the performer, the performer looked down
at him, and two pairs of dark eyes met sharply
and critically. Each took stock of the other,
and each was puzzled in his turn at the long
and curious stare at him.

It was thus Hamilton Redclove and Samuel
Challis met for the first time in their strange
lives.

CHAPTER VI.

AT THE 'HARP.

Interested as he was in the advent of the
stranger, Sam ChalKs continued to play his
concertina with emphasis, swinging it to the
right and left and above his head, keeping time
tolerably well, but unpleasantly inaccurate as regarded
his notes. When he had grown tired of
inspecting the young man at the table, he
watched the audience furtively, his gaze shifting
with wonderful rapidity from one group of
dancers to another, from the dancers to the
drinkers at the side tables, from the drinkers to
the bar beyond the partition, over which, by a
curious elongation of his neck, he could just
peer from the elevated position he had assumed.

In that half-eager, half-watchful, wholly restless
look he reminded Hamilton of some caged animal,
doubtful which amongst its visitors before
the iron bars would cast a scrap of food to it indue
course. There was anxiety in the gaze,
and there was evidently hunger, and no shrill
laugh or shriller cry — and he accompanied his
instrument-with both in an excited fashion —
could rob him of either expression as he played
on to the riotous crew below his level.

He was a tall lad, between sixteen and seventeen
years of age, very white and thin, and
ragged and dirty, with bare feet, like the women
who danced and shrieked about the room, and
with an extraordinary crop of black matted hair
which hung over his forehead and about his
ears and eyes, a tangled and untameable mane
that the stoutest-hearted barber in Byron
Street would have shuddered in despair at conquering.
He appeared to be in good spirits;
hunger and anxiety and ' bad luck ' had not
quenched the elasticity of youth, even in this
outcast playing for a supper and the price of a
night's lodging, to be subscribed by the general

company when their charitable feelings allowed
them to be liberal, or else he was a good actor,
and hid the sorrows at his young heart by a sharp
jest or a well-timed laugh. There was a picturesqueness,
too, about him that his quaint attitude
encouraged, and the surroundings did not
wholly detract from ; in the murky atmosphere,
and with the background of a shabby red curtain
hanging by a window in the rear, an artist
might have made something of his Murillo-like
figure. In a gilt frame and drawn to the life,
he would have been worth money to the connoisseur,
but, in the flesh and at that present
moment, Sam Challis was exactly worth three-halfpence.


He wound up his performance on the concertina
by an elaborate flourish of the instrument
round his head, and when the dancers had ceased
and everybody was shouting and swearing
at once, as they walked up and down the room
or struggled towards the bar without, his voice,
shrill as a bell, rang out with a starting distinctness
and even mournfulness,

'Remember the music, ladies and gents.

please. Don't forget the lad who finds the
music, please.'

There was only one response on this occasion,
and that came from a girl as haggard as himself
and with a check shawl twisted about her
head and shoulders.

If yer don't play better next time, Sammy,
I'll claw the life out o' yer ugly carkis, mind me
now.'

As she passed him, she jumped up, and made
a playful, but spiteful scratch at his countenance,
which he jerked back adroitly out of
harm's way.

Aise A\dth you, Jenny, or I'll never take you
next Sunday to New Brighton,' he said, laughingly,
at which remark Jenny laughed too, and
went on, arms akimbo, down the room.

Sam Challis turned his attention to the newcomer,
spellbound or unbounded by the
company upon which he had intruded, and endeavouring
vainly now to shape forth his course
of action, which was not so easy a task as he
had bargained for. Hamilton was so deep in
thought that the musician's voice, close to his

ear, made him jump a little, Sam having
leaned forward and downward to address the
stranger.

Hard Knew this — eh, guv'nor V he said, in a
low voice.

Yes,' replied Hamilton, when he had recovered
his compose, * hard lines certainly.'

But, then, what's a fellow to do, bnt make
the best of his musical education,' he said,
drily.

Hamilton was conscious that the boy was
speaking ironically, and he was conscious, too,
that the tone and accent of the speaker were at
variance with the harsh resonant voice of a moment
since.

Can you live by these means V asked Hamilton,
shivering a little, as a feverish dirty hand
was laid familiarly on his shoulder.

I grub on ; I am not extravagant in my
diet or my dress,' he said, kicking out his bare
legs by way of demonstration. • I have my ups
and downs in life, sir — now it's the downs, and I
play to the wild Irish.'

He laughed again, showing a row of strong.

white teeth ; he sounded a chord on his concertina
; he gave another plaintive cry of, ' Remember
the music, please,' and then he leaned towards
Hamilton again.

*What little game brings you here, my
swell V he asked, more insolently. ' This isn't
the place for you, and people who come prying
into Larry's crib have been known to get it hot,
and wished they'd stayed away, long before the
night was over. Twig V

'I twig,' answered Hamilton, echoing the
youth's slangy interrogation ; « but I'm not
prying.'

'Come to be amused, perhaps?'

Partly.'

You'd better dance, then. Here, hi — Made,'
he called forth, ' here's a partner '

Hold your row, please,' exclaimed Hamilton,
in natural alarm. ' I come here to be amused ;
partly by seeing this life, but partly to be of
help to anyone in distress, and who deserves
help.'

Got coal tickets and penny tracts in your
pocket r

No — money !' said Hamilton, quietly.

The youth's eyes dilated, and he dropped his
voice at once.

Hand it over,' he said, harshly, * we're mighty
short of the article about here.'

Not in this place, but where I can speak to
you presently,' said Hamilton.

Sam looked very sharply at him, and so
strong a suspicion of distrust settled on the pale
soiled face, that Hamilton said, quickly,

I am here to be of help to one, Sam Challis,
who some time ago lost his mother down in
Culverley.'

CHAPTER VII.

IS IT TOO LATE?

The announcement with which our last chapter
conchiclecl, and which Hamilton Redclove made
to Samuel Challis, was a great surprise to the
last-mentioned gentleman, and his coolness of
demeanour, his easy indifference to 'the surroundings,'
to his own position in life, to the patronage
of the man who had ventured in search of
him was, for the first time, seriously disturbed.
He had not expected this, or anything like this.
The past was nothing to him, save as it
might affect one being presently who seemed
cut adrift from it as remorselessly as he had
been ; there was no one who belonged to, it but
hei or, as he thought, would ever speak of it

again to him. It was sunk deep in the waters
of life, with a big stone round it to keep it from
ever rising to the surface, he had thought. And
now this swell, Who fancied, like a fool, he was
in disguise and very unlike a swell, this amateur
detective, who told by his manner what he was
to every pair of lynx eyes turned in his direction,
had stepped, as from the grave, to scare him
with his mother's name, and with the proffer of
help to the son of that dead mother.

He was not dreaming, surely ? This was not
the result of sitting up all night with old
Cuppleditch, and nursing him when his daughter
Alas at the puts, and doing his work at
the ' Harp,' and altogether wearing himself
to death? This spick-and-span, clean-shifted
party could not be a dream-figure, although as
much out of place as one, and acting and talking
with a dream-like inconsistency, the lad
thought — after his own fashion of thinking.
The men and women were laughing, talking,
screaming, smoking, swearing, quarrelling, the
Babel of sound was all real, the drink was
genuine, there was a real ' bobby ' looking in at

the door yonder, with his gimlet-eyes fixed on
Hamilton as though he had an interest in
him, and had been told to keep an eye upon
him.

Sam Challis took time to consider the position
before he answered off hand. If this was 'a
plant,' it was a queer one, and no mistake. It
was without an object, so far as he could make
ont, and yet, without an object, why should the
man have come in search of him ? There had
been many mysteries in that past, he knew ; he
had not troubled himself about them, being a
reckless ' fly-away ' lad, without much thought
of anything save his own wilful self; he had left
all mystery to his mother, and to his sister, who
was a year his senior, and this man might bea
part of it — was assuredly a part of it. That
being settled in his mind, it behoved him to be
on his guard, to make quite sure of the intentions
of the party who had tracked him to the ' Hai-p,'
to cross-examine him, in his turn, if it were
necessary, and to profit by any well-meant service
presently, and if all was square and aboveboard,
and * no kid about it,' as he would pro-vol.
I. M

baby have expressed it, in the miserable street-slang
of which he had become a proficient in his
latter days.

Presently he began to sound several chords
on his concertina, noisily and briskly, in order to
drown the voices of his companion and himself.

And this isn't a dodge V he said.

On my honour, no.'

And you're not in the police, or one of the
reformatory coves, or a missionary bloke V

Neither.'

And you've come to be of help to me, Sam
Chalks V

^ Yes.'

You don't know a Brummagem man of the
name of Overdo wn, I suppose ? Oh, no, not at
all,' he said, with a spasmodic laugh, and a
knowing wink of his left eye.

I do not know anyone of the name of Over-down.'


Ah, well,' said Sam, very thoughtfully, ' he's
not a bad sort, after all ; he means well, though
he preaches a sight too much. He was good to

my mother when there was nobody else to come
forward with a kind word, and she was dying
sharp, when I was away, and Aggie was away,
too,' he added, after a pause, and with several
new and very harsh chords upon his instrument.


I am ready to help you without preaching,'
said Hamilton.

Thanked,' said the other, still sceptical of
Hamilton's good faith.

Not because 1 am interested in you,' added
Hamilton, coolly, and with emphasis ; ' but because
a friend of your mother's sends me to this
place.'

Oh ! that's it,' Sam said, with another sharp
glance at Hamilton. ' She had lots of friends
once, but they cut away mighty fast before I
knew anything about them. They — are you
going to stand any drink before I begin
again?'

What drink will you take V said Hamilton.


Oh ! the real tipple — Irish whisky, neat.
That puts life into a man — " a drop of the crater,"

mas

these poor devils call it. Here, Joe,' he called
out, * two four's of Irish, for this gent and myself,
and look sharp, for the respectable company
can't be kept waiting all night for their
music. ^

He Winked at Hamilton again — he could
afford to take him into his confidence, and show
him that he laughed at his audience, and
thought himself above it. There was a levity,
even a boldness, about Samuel Chalhs that was
not to be wondered at, considering the grim
school in which he had been reared of late days,
and how genteel society had quickly turned its
back upon him.

The whisky was brought and paid for, and
Sam took his glass and tilted the contents down
his throat with the air and ease of a dram-drinker
thrice his years ; his eyes brightened
and his spirits rose several degrees at once. He
was in luck's way to-night ; if he had had nothing
but a crust of bread to eat within the last
fourteen hours, here was good drink to his rescue.
He had got that much out of the * swell,'
and if the rest was a dream — ^ all gammon !' —

why, it did not matter a great deal. He was safe
for a few hours, at any rate.

He struck tip another tune — an Irish jig,
which appealed at once to the feelings of his
audience, who yelled and jumped to and fro,
and came in ugly rushes against the tables and
forms, and knocked over Hamilton's Whisky, a
calamity which that gentleman was glad to witness,
not seeing how to get rid of it without offence
to the feelings of the establishment. It was a very
vigorous dance, and, when it was completed,
Sam Challis set up his howl for a pecuniary reward
again, and on this occasion a stray copper
or two fell to his share. Hamilton was becoming
uncomfortably conspicuous, too ; the
novelty of his appearance had not worn off, and
the company was inclined to intrude now — to
ask for drink — for a song — for anything that
would show them that he had not come to spy
upon the poor Irish, or ridicule them in their
moments of innocent leisure.

Stand drink,' whispered Sam Challis, as the
wild faces closed round Hamilton, who had
turned a shade paler within the last few minutes

; * chaff is no good here, — not such chaff
as yours, I mean,' he added, very contemptuously.


Hamilton ' stood drink ' as advised, and, as
everybody was glad to consume alcohol at the
stranger's expense, there was less personality,
but more uproar, followed by a considerable exhibition
of friendliness which was suddenly
evinced by hearty hand-shaking, and slapping
on the back of the ' real gift ' who had come to
see them. He was one of the right sort sure,
not a beggarly informer, nothing to do with the
service, rot 'em ; one of the real grit from Ould
Ireland, ^vith work to pay for under the green
flag presently, Ooh-hooray ! God save the
gift and pass the whisky.'

How am I to get out of this, Challis?' asked
Hamilton, weary of his mission or his company ;
there is no talking to you here.'

When 1 strike up again, and they're dancing,
you can hook it,' was the inelegant advice
proffered.

He was apparently not curious about the
stranger any longer. All the information that

Hamilton had lately startled him with, the
whisky might have driven out of his head
again, for the interest he appeared to show.

Where shall I find yon in an hour's time V
asked Hamilton.

I may be here still, or else looking up old
Cuppleditch's typhus,' he replied. ' I can't say
exactly. Depends upon bus'ness.'

To-morrow V

Sam looked hard at him again. This man
really meant what he said then. There was no
hoax at the bottom of it.

You will find me in the morning on the
landing-stage, if you want me,' he added, very
carelessly.

Strangely hard, strangely indifferent to help,
altogether strange was this Bohemian, thought
Hamilton. What was to become of such a
character t Surely Lord Redclove was right
in considering that it was too late to help a
scamp of that age. Lord Redclove had always
thoroughly understood human nature. He was
very wise.

I will be there,' said Hamilton.

All right,' was the easy answer ; ' and any
change you have handy now, you can leave
with me, if you like. For the money market is
tights. That's newspaper lingo for you, and
no mistake.'

Can you read V

Read !' cried Sam ; ' why, man, I am a scholar
! I was brought up as well as you were, until
I cut it of my own accord. This kind of life
suits me better ; see how it agrees with me,' he
cried, bitterly, as he thrust out his bare, dirty feet,
and brandished the concertina over his head.

The music had hardly sounded in the room
before he was laughing loudly. Hamilton did
not understand him ; it had not fallen to his lotto
meet such a character as this before, to sink
to the depths of such terrible disreputability as
glowered at him through the dust and smoke of
the dancing den. Let him be gone, and think
more deeply of human life and mortal misery
from that hour ; he had lived a year, and grown
a year or two older surely, since he had quitted
the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield's house on.
Uncle Redclove's mission.

When the dance had grown fast and furious,
he edged away from the table towards the door
of egress. He looked towards Samuel Challis,
but the player would not heed him again. Sam
was seemingly absorbed in his task, in the
dancers, in everything save the young man,
who stole away from the shadows and hastened
back to his hotel, where the ' proprieties ' restored
him to himself, and where everything was
not so like a horrible nightmare as had been his
adventures of the last two hours.

The nightmare' came back, however, for Sam
Chalhs was on his mind. Hamilton saw him in
his sleep later on, perched, like a graphic
figure of Dore's, above the poverty and viciousness
of the haunt wherein he had discovered
him. He seemed to wake up with the discordant
clash of the music in his ears, and then he
slept no more, but lay and stared at the Venetian
blinds of his bed-room window, and at the
daylight coming brighter and brighter between
the green laths.

How that fellow worries me,' he muttered ;
and yet, what is he to nie ?'

It was his uncle's logic, but he had not his
uncle's coldness of heart yet. He was young
still, and youth, thank heaven for it, has generous
and rash and hot impulses, which th
wisdom of old age might copy at times with
advantage.

CHAPTER Veil

THE Good-looking GIRL.

The next morning Hamilton Reclclove was on
the famous landing-stage at Liverpool, but Sam
Challis was not to be discovered ofF-hand. They
were busy at the Mersey-side that day — a huge
ship from America was landing its passengers
when Hamilton arrived, another vessel outward
bound was taking in its freight of humanity,
and there was a dense mob of emigrants and
emigrants' friends — the Irish element once more
predominant— exchanging farewells and blessings
and tears. The steamers were coming
across from Birkenhead and other parts of the
Cheshire coast, steamers were puffing away from
Lancashire to Cheshire in return, bells were

ringing, voices .shooting, all the turmoil and life
and excitement of this big river were at their
highest, and rendered Hamilton's task far from
easy or comfortable.

He came upon Samuel Challis at last — as the
emigrants melted away by degrees, one ragged
and forlorn youth remained at the edge of the
landing-stage, with his gaze directed to the
swirling water, as if in its depths might lie all
the peace and rest he had not been able to discover.
This was the boy whom Hamilton had
seen yesternight at the ' Harps In the broad
daylight, with his rags flapping in the breeze,
Sam Challis was less picturesque and more disreputable,
and Hamilton felt a certain amount of
reluctance in accosting him before the people
for ever hustling by them. Sam did not look
round ; he was not anxious to find Hamilton ;
he left it to Hamilton to find him ; there might
be politeness in his reserve, a pride even in the
attitude which this youth had adopted, with his
face to the river, and his hands thrust to the
depths of his empty pockets. He was tall for
his age, a lithe and sinewy young fellow, and

Hamilton fancied he could perceive even a likeness
to the dead father — the man who had
been kind to him when he was a youth himself.


He shook off his objections to Master Challis,
and went quickly to his side. The face, looking
down at the water, did not turn in his direction
until he had first spoken.

You have come, thenar said Hamilton.

I should have been here without you,' he replied,
shortly.

Have you been waiting long V

I am used to waiting.'

Do you get work on the landing-stage T

Oh, for the matter of that, when I try hard,'
was the careless reply ; ' now and then, that is,
when the regulars are not down upon me too
much, I find something to do''

"Have you found work to-day?'
I haven't looked for it ; I am waiting for a
friend.'

What friend is that V

A woman.'

Indeed !' said Hamilton.

She will come from over the never to me,' he
said, thoughtfully ; ' she will be sony to see
such a scarecrow waiting for her, but she would
be more sorry, I fancy, if I wasn't here.'

'A sweetheart, Sam?' inquired Hamilton,
lightly.

Ay — no — my sweethearts are at the " Harp,"
and come out when the factories are shut, and
the gas is lighted — rare girls they are, some of
them — but this is '

A sister?' said Hamilton, quickly.

What is that to do with you V was the sharp
rejoinder ; ' your business is with me, 1 was
given to understand.'

AVith your sister, too — if she wants help.'

Not your help,' said Sam, shaking his head ;
not anybody's, I hope. She'll get on in the
world — she's clever — she's A 1, is Aggie
Chalhs.'

Hamilton had heard from his uncle that the
sister was in prison ; she was in a country prison
then — Chester Goal, perhaps — and this was her
liberty day on which he had chanced. Here
was an opportunity to be of service to both

brother and sister — to give them an opportunity
of bettering themselves in life — to be free with
Uncle Redclove's money, if there were the
ghost of a probability that the money would
be of benefit to either of them.

Well — about yourself. Shall we get out of
this fresh crowd?' asked Hamilton.

I can't leave till she comes. You can say
here as well as anywhere else what the devil
you want with me T

Sam spoke peevishly. Hamilton's interest in
him had aroused him, at last — of course, there
was a deep motive for all the trouble which this
swell had taken to discover him and offer him
assistance, and he would be as glad to know the
reason now as to be assisted.

I knew your father,' said Hamilton ; ' he was
a great friend of mine when I was a boy.'

My father was !'

Yes, and now it's my turn to be your friend.'

I have only one friend, and she's coming
yonder, from the other side of the Mersey to me,'
he replied ; then he added, slowly, * so you
knew my father?'

Yes.'

That's more than I did,' he said, with his
old unpleasant laugh ; ' I was packed off early
to school, and he never came near any of us.
When I Alas tired of school, I ran away from it
and home, and them'

Them V repeated Hamilton, interrogatively.


Mother and Aggie. As for my father — well,
I don't Avant to know anything about him now.
What's the goods

We will proceed to business, then.'

Yes, and be quick about it,' he added. ' If
you have money to give away, give it, and
good-morning. You can see, sir, I am not in
first-rate circumstances. You don't want any
proof of that T

I see it,' answered Hamilton.

Your coin I pitched away last night, too, so
I am as poor as ever — money doesn't stick to
my fingers long, worse luck. Cuppleditch
hooked it before mornings

? Oh, the fiddler, for whom you
were deputy, at the " Harp." '

Yes — he's dead. Canst say he added, in a
thicker voice, ' that I'm quite myself this morning,
for he fought hard to hive, and croaking
fiddlers are out of my line. I told him I wouldn't
have funked about it like him, but have been
glad to get out of it all.^

That's a hard thought for one beginning life,
Sam.^

It's a damned bad beginning, you see,' he replied,
with an ugly frown that changed the
whole character of his face, and rendered it
sullen and forbidding.

There is more than one beginning — at your
age,' said Hamilton, sententiously.

Look here, that's old Overdo wn's talk — the
man you pretend not to know anything about.
Cut it.'

I have done.'

That's a good job"*

I promised you I wouldn't preach,' said
Hamilton ; ' now to perform. If, for your
father's sake, I buy you a passage to America,
and give you a good outfit, and a few pounds
to start with in the new country, will you go V

VOL. I. N

Say that all again.'

Hamilton repeated the inquiry.

Is it worth your while — or worth somebody
else's while — to send me out of the country?'
was the slow and cunning answer.

'No — it is not.'

« What would it be done for, then V

Charity.'

All this out of charity !' cried Sam, ironically.
' " The likes of that now," as the old
women say down our court.'

There is no design in offering you a chance
in life,' Hamilton continued ; ' but there is a wish
to do it simply for your own sake. Think that,'

Very well — I'll think what you Hke, to oblige
yoUj though to think of America, all of a
sudden, is sharpish work. Do you want me to
make any promise to stay there V he asked.

Not any,' said Hamilton ; ' come back when
you please — and, if you come back an honest
man, I shall be glad.'

Sam Challis's first appearance in a new and
original character !' he said, sarcastically. * What
a lark !'

Why do you hesitate V

Oh, why !' he echoed ; ' there's a little bit of
a reason for that. I can't say " Yes " till Aggie
comes, at all events.'

She may not come, and I am anxious to get
back to town.'

She is coming,' said Sam, with a curious
quaver in his voice ; ' coming — now — at once —
bang off the reel — after being so long away
from me ! Here she is — close — on board the
steamer coming in from Birkenhead — see
there !'

I don't see — ' began Hamilton, looking towards
the steamer approaching that portion of
the landing-stage on which they were standing.
Do you mean that short young woman, in the
torn blue shawl, with a basket?'

Get out,' said Sam, still more excited and
more uncomplimentary : ' what, that fat Cheshire
chops ! No, the lady in black silk — don't
you see a tall, good-looking girl on the upper-deck
there ? That's Aggie.'

N 2

CHAPTER TX.

AGGIE.

Hamilton Redclove held his breath for awhile
astonishment. This Sam Challis's sister I
What a contrast to the white-faced brother,
shivering in his rags on the landing-stage, a
wretched waif, shrunken from all the strength
and grace of youth by the privations of the last
twelve months !

Sam Challis's sister ! — the girl he had been
commissioned to help, worthy or unworthy,
should the occasion present itself — the young*
woman from gaol, whom his uncle regarded as
hopelessly cast adrift from the ' respectability,*
and for whom there did not seem any chance
of better days in the lurid shadow which a
prison must infallibly cast upon them.

Hamilton looked again from Sam Challis to
the sister. Yes, there was no error of identification,
the tall girl was waving a black gloved
hand to the vagrant at his side ; her face was
smiling, almost joyous, and what a sweet face
it was, thought Hamilton, as the distance decreased
between the vessel and the landing-stage,
and one could see her clearly in the
morning's sun.

She was very tall, although not of that striking
height which was remarkable in his cousin
the Avidow ; a fair-haired, bright-faced girl c^f
nineteen years, perhaps, with a smile rippling
over every feature, and with her red lips parted
with excitement, disclosing a double row of
dainty white teeth. She was more like a girl
coming back from boarding-school to friends
and home and love, than a forlorn young woman
branded with the stigma of the prison-house,
and with a ticket-of-leave in her purse,
along with her gratuity money and her papers.
In this guise, and in this fashion, Hamilton
Redclove had never expected to encounter her
it was a stranger meeting than with her

brother Sam. He was bewildered by it — it
seemed part and parcel of a new mystery ou
which he was intruding, and which appeared to
thrust back all the sleepiness and drone-age of
his past existence which had been marked by
nothing singular by nothing bad or good,
praiseworthy or blameable — the ordinary career
of a well-to-do young man, With no particular
vices or virtues worth mentioning. Strange
that he should think lie had entered on a new
phase of existence, when cowering on the
mystery which encompassed Agnes Challis,
whose life could be nothing to him, save that it
perplexed him at the first glimpse of it.

As she stepped on to the landing-stage, and
made her way through the crowd of passengers
towards her brother,, Sam Challis for the first
time in Hamilton's experience of him, betrayed
a sense of shame at meeting her, or else a something
that was akin to pride in his eagerness
to spare her a recognition in the full light of
day. He shrank towards the bridge between
the landing-stage and the roadway and the
busy docks beyond, and crept slowly away

from her with downcast looks and head averted,
taking no heed of Hamilton who was keeping-step
by his side.

Agnes Challis had overtaken her brother
before he was clear of the landing-stage, however,
and a musical voice said in his ear,

Don't run away from me, Sam. Where are
you going? — what, are you frightened of me,

too r

I'll not speak to you here,' he muttered,
without looking towards her, ' see what I have
come down to already !'

i\.h ! Sam — I am not proud !' she said, almost
laughingly, and yet there might have been a
ring of satire in her tones.

Presently we'll talk — not now,' said Sam, ina
hurried voice, and still with head averted, ' let
us get away from these people, if Ave can,
Aggie.'

He turned suddenly to Hamilton, with a half
defiant, half beseeching manner.

You'll go— you'll hook it away for half-an-hour
or so f he said, ' won't you V

Yes — if you wish it,' Hamilton replied.

Who is this gentleman?' asked Agnes Chalks,
in surprise.

I don't know who he is,' answered Sam,
shortly, ' a somebody who wants to get me ont
of England, who talks of helping a fellow who
has been always able — after a fashion, mind — to
help himself

'That is strange,' said the girl, regarding
Hamilton very steadily and critically, ' you
come from Mr. Fayre, I suppose V

Hamilton raised his hat, as to a lady of his
own degree, and answered in the negative.

A friend of Mr. Overdown's ?' was her next
inquiry, and with her two large clear hazel
eyes bent on him still.

No, Miss Challis,' he said again, ' a philanthropist
on my own account, I may say — and at
least one who is anxious to be of service to
your brother.'

There are more good people in the world
than T thought there were two years ago,' she
remarked, thoughtfully, ' I hope Sam has thanked
you, sir.'

Oh ! yes,' said Hamilton, very readily.

Xo — I haven't,' was Sam's response. * I
haven't had time to think of it — to make it all
out as clearly as I shall do in an hour or
two.'

For an hour or two, then, we will ask this
gentleman to be kind enough to leave ns to
ourselves,' Alas the quiet hint conveyed
here.

Hamilton was perplexed still — on the threshold
of his new discovery, new mystery, this odd
couple might vanish away for good, and render
his efforts unavailing, and himself for ever in
their minds an object of suspicion.

I may trust you both to meet me again,' he
said.

The tall girl looked hard at him once more.

'Why both of us?' she asked.

You Avill be glad to hear what I purpose doing
for your brother — you may require help for
yourself in the new life which you are beginning,'
he blurted forth, not too discreetly.

You are not from Mr. Fap-e— or Mr. Over-down
V she asked again.

No.'

How do you know I am beginning a new
life then V was her quick inquiry.

I think so — I hope so,' he replied.

If I could go back to the old,' said the girl,
clasping her hands together, and looking upwards
suddenly, ' if I could begin the old again,
and be as happy !'

Hamilton did not understand this — he had
imagined hers a sad past life to be repented of
and wept over, and the exclamation sui-prised
him more than his features betrayed.

Pardon me,^ stammered Hamilton, * but
really — "

We will meet you, sh — we will meet you,' she
interrupted, hurriedly ; ' come, Sam.'

Shall I Avait for you here T asked Hamilton.

I am a stranger to Liverpool,' was the reply,
where is the North Western Railway Station V

Some distance from the river.'

Wait for us there at two o'clock this afternoon
— it will be more convenient, I think,' she
said.

She bowed gracefully by way of dismissal to
Hamilton, who once more found himself raising

his hat from his head as to a fine lady of his
acquaintance. The interview was not quite
closed, however, for Miss Challis who had turned
away with her brother suddenly came towards
him again with her old. steady, searching stare.
It was a look that thrilled him with its earnestness
and its fearlessness of expression.

The voice was clear and forcible as well as
musical — there was not a lurking tremor in its
tone to betray either shame or fear at the heart
of the speaker.

You are aware I am from prison V she said,
boldly.

Ye— es — that is, I have heard ' Hamilton

began, in some embarrassment.

That is the only question which I wished to
ask you,' she said, quietly; ' good morning.'

She had turned away again, and Hamilton
watched her join her brother, and walk on by his
side, with her gloved hand on his ragged sleeve,
until a turn of the busy street shut her from his-sight.


CHAPTER X.

BEWARE OF THE GIRL.'

Hamilton Redclove had become excited over
his new mission. There was more romance about
it than he had bargained for ; the Chaises — brother
and sister — had been discovered, and it was a
difficult task to understand either of them. They
were not grateful yet for the charity which his
uncle had sent him down to Liverpool to dispense—
moreover, they were suspicious of him,
and saw a hidden meaning in his expedition
and a motive in the background for that philanthropy
with Which he had surprised them.

Ordinary people, in this world, do not go very
much out of their way to help the benighted, to
unfasten their purse-strings and heart-strings in

the service of God's great army of the afflicted
why should this youth and his sister believe
in him and his professions ? Did he believe in
them himself? Hardly. Did he believe in his
uncle ? Well, not so much as he could wish.

This was a spasmodic kind of benevolence
rather than real charity, and there was even
policy at the bottom of the whole business which
Lord Kedclove had entrusted to him. In his
daughter's interest, and for his daughter's peace
of mind, it was his lordship's best move to get
rid of this couple, to send them abroad or find
them honest employment at home — anything,
so that they might earn their own living, and
not fancy they had a claim on a poor, Aveak
father's possessions, duly devised by letters of
administration to the wife legally married, and
the one daughter lawfully begotten. It was
not uncharacteristic of his lordship's manner to
be deaf or satiric to Daniel Overdo wn's plans, and
then set to work after his own wise fashion. It
was even like his lordship to be sony for the
results, and to spend money to make things as
comfortable as circumstances would permit. ,

Danger-field, had been a sad fool,
heaven knew that. Lord Redclove had said
piously and truthfully more than once of late
days ; but he had liked Dangerfield, and, as men
run in the bulk, Dangerfield had been kind to
his wife, although he had died — if that objectionable
gunsmith were to be believed— with a
very eccentric anxiety as to the people whom he
had, during his life, kept discreetly in the shade.
There had been a great deal of fuss made over a
very commonplace affair, and, if money now
could smooth matters a little, Lord Redclove
would not be sorry ; if money could wipe
these Challises for ever out of the records of the
family. Lord Redclove would even be exceedingly
glad.

Hamilton guessed this, knowing his uncle
passing well, and hence the telegram despatched
to his noble relative a few minutes after Miss
chalcis and her ragged brother had turned the
corner of the street.

1 have discovered both the Challises. They are
distrustful of me and independent, hut the youth
may he persuaded to go to America, I think. Be

is in distress, the girl is not. May 1 tell all
frankly '( May 1 he as generous as 1 lois T

Lord Redclove's answer reached Hamilton at
the North Western Hotel, a short tie before he
sauntered into the big station by its side.

Tell nothing. Give chat money you like, but
let it he understood clearly and positively that it is
for the first and last time. Beware of the girl''

Hamilton was brooding on this answer at the
railway station, rejoicing in it partly, but
shrugging his shoulders at the wise warning of
age — as youth invariably does whelm the warning
is not to its taste — when the girl herself
came so quietly and quickly to his side that he
started as at an apparition.

• You are punctual, Miss Challis,' he said, and
np went his hand to his hat again, and off went
the hat, before he remembered that this was nota
lady, only a poor prison bird, coming out of its
cage with clipped wings.

I am compelled to be punctual ; my train
leaves Liverpool in half-an-hour, and we have
something to explain,' she said.

Hamilton bowed. There was a great deal to

explain, if each would condescend to do so ; and
he could not now be frank on his side, without
being false to his uncle's trust.

You are going to ' and Hamilton paused.

To Birmingham,' she explained, ' where a

friend T have never seen has promised to look
after me till the opportunity to look after myself
occurs in good time.'

May I ask his name V

'Certainly. Daniel Overdown,' Alas the-ready
answer.

I do not know the gentleman.'

He had said this more than once before, and
he said it now very readily — it would stave-off
questions that might prove embarrassing, he
thought, if he were firm on this point.

So Sam tells me,' she said. * You, I hear,
also knew my father well V

Yes. He was very kind to me when I was
young.'

You have the advantage of me, sir,' she said,
with a sad shade upon her face. ' I did not
know my father. I believe he was kind to
mother in his way; that is, with his money.

I have been told so,' she added, thoughtfully.


Where is your brother V asked Hamilton, as
they walked up and down the broad stone platform
of the railway station, the world about
them too busy with its own affairs to take
heed of a strange couple.

He will be here presently,' was the answer.
We have had a long talk together, and he has
made up his mind to accept your kind offer of a
passage to America.'

I am glad to hear it,' responded Hamilton
Redclove.

Having once made up his mind, he is impatient
to start,' she said ; * he was always impatient,
poor fellow, and that may stand in his
way in the new world as in the old, unless the
first friend he meets sees the good that is in
him as clearly as I do.'

You have faith in your brother V inquired her
companion.

Yes,' was the confident answer, ' I have.'
And he has faith in you V
Yes. That is more remarkable, you think V
VOL. I. O

she added, shrewdly, and with a faint smile
flickering at the corners of her mouth.

No, pardon me ; I do not think that,' Hamilton
hastened to reply.

I have been in prison, you must remember,'
she said, very frankly, again ; ' and my brother
Sam has still a character to lose !'

Why don't you go abroad, and take care of
him V suggested Hamilton, ' with a home together,
beginning new lives together, the world
would open out before you both more brightly.
In America, for instance, the past could be completely
sunk.'

Oh, sir, I do not wish to sink the past I' she
cried, with a strange pride suddenly exhibiting
itself ; ' there were troubles in it, but there were
happiness and love. I have it still to study.'

To study,' echoed Hamilton.

And there is nothing in it that I regret, or
look back upon with shame,' she concluded,
without heeding him.

Nothing,' echoed Hamilton again, and again
she took no heed of him. Her thoughts for an
instant had gone from him, and from the bustle

of the big railway static q, to the past of which
he was ignorant, and to a Avorld lying far away
from his ken. Yes, it was a fine face — full of
thought and confidence and even hope, he
fancied, as the bright hazel eyes looked beyond
him, and a tinge of colour rose to the cheeks
which prison air had blanched of late days.

Nothing in the past to regret or look back
upon with shame ! What did she mean ?
thought Hamilton. What could this young
woman mean by that ?

o 2

CHAPTER XL

BOTH GRATEFUL.

Was there no real slime in the offence for
which this Aggie ChaJhs had suffered imprisonment,
thought Hamilton Redclove, or had she
grown callous to society's punishment, and defiant
of it, or was she, by one of those awful
accidents of life which trip up the heels of honest
folk at times, innocent of the crime for
which she had suffered ? He could believe she
was, it was so fair-spoken a face, and with such
a clear outlook from it, that his heart was touched
to know its history.

She came back to herself suddenly.

'To go abroad with Sam she murmured.

Yes, why not think of it seriously V

It is a temptation to speak of America, and
of my taking care of my brother,' she said ; ' but
my mission in life Hes in England, and my
friends are all here.'

You have fiends then V

Mr. Overdown will be a friend, I am sure ;
I have confidence in him already, and I shall
make more friends as I go on,' she replied ; ' I
have a habit of it. Why, I made friends in the
prison, which they let me out of yesterday ;
plenty of them.'

The sooner you drop them the better, I
should say,' remarked her listener.

She laughed merrily for an instant, and to
Hamilton's new surprise. It was a laugh that
thrilled him, and was full of music.

You would not say so if you knew them,'
she said ; ' but you don't want to know about
them, or me, and we haven't time even if you
had the inclination.'

I'm not quite so sure of that.'

Time is getting on, and Sam will be with us
in five minutes. Now, about Sam V

I thought the question of your brother's

start in life was settled,' he replied more anxious
concerning this new-comer on the scene than
in the youth he had discovered last night
at the ' Harp.'

He is going to America at your suggestion
and at your expense V she said. * Is not that
the position V

Hamilton nodded.

'And you ^vish me to believe, just as you
wish my brother to believe, that this is a charitable
freak on your part, without any motive
save the wish to benefit your fellow-creatures,'
she asked, ' your poorer brethren V

'I have not said so,' Hamilton replied. ' I
have already told you that your father, Mr.
Dangerfield '

He was not called by that name,' she interrupted,
quickly ; ' my mother did not know him
by that name.'

Indeed !'

For, at least,' she corrected,' my mother never
spoke of him by that name to me.'

Well, well, he was kind to me in my youth,
I was about to add.'

It is gratitude, then, for past favours that has
led you to seek my brother out?' was the next
question that embarrassed him.

Your brother and yourself.'

You did not expect to see me,' she said.

I should have sought you out next,' was the
reply.

Yours is a gratitude which I am too young
understand perhaps,' she said, and Hamilton
felt himself blushing and evading her gaze.
May I ask your name V

I would prefer you left me nameless,' Hamilton
urged.

'An unknown benefactor, like the good
stranger in the story books,' she said, almost
satirically.

It would have been easy to give a false
name, and thus affect to satisfy your curiosity,'
said Hamilton, in some confusion ; ' but — but I
cannot tell you a lie.'

She looked away from him for an instant, and
then said,

Thank you. It is as well there should be
truth between us.'

You suspect me, Miss Challis said Hamilton,
and it is natural you should do so. But what
motives can I have in being of assistance to
your brother, but those which do me no discredit
'?'

Neither discredit to you, nor to those who
sent you, I hope replied Miss Challis, quickly ;
for this is no impromptu efibrt on your part,
and it is bad acting to try to make me think it
is. Still for your timely help to Sam, sinking
now for want of help, I thank you, sir, with all
my heart.'

She extended her hand to him, and he took
it, shook it warmly, and resigned it. It was in
his heart to tell her all, but he checked the impulse
that was honest and fair in him. * Beware
of the girl,' seemed hissing in his ears, the warning
of his uncle sent by the wires half an hour
ago. He would keep his uncle's secret, if he
would not follow implicitly his uncle's mandates.
He had no intention of telling the good-looking
girl before him that this assistance was
for the first and last time in the lives of her and
her brother. He would help them himself, if

help were needed, lie thought, in the excitement
of that moment, and under the spell of Aggie
Chalhs. He would be very glad to help her,
he was sm-e, at any time of her strange
life.

I don't know that I should have accepted
your offer for Sam,' she said, thoughtfully, ' had
I been able to see clearly ahead of me. But I
return to the world a poor girl, and with only
one dress to my back worth an}H:hin,2;. This is
it ; I was arrested in it.'

Hamilton did not admire the persistent way
in which Agnes Challis alluded to her prison
life, though there seemed a motive in her manner
of doing so, rather than a natural recklessness
or defiance. Was she anxious to impress
him with her antecedents ? — to fix the fact on
his memory whilst their interview lasted ?

I had my plans for Sam,' she continued, * but
your charity has altered them. Your idea is
best ; he goes to America, to the very place I
have Avished him to go, and where he may be
of service to me, or himself, or another — who
knows? He is not as good a scholar as he

might have been ; he had not my application
my poor mother used to say,' she added, with
quite a French shrug of her shoulders ; ' and he
was never fond of school as I was. Oh ! my
grand old school. I wonder if the mistress hac
heard of the fate of her favourite pupil, and if it
has shocked her very much.'

^ But '

But let me understand all very clearly
please, before Sam comes,' she said, hurriedly
now. ' You don't want a sketch of my life ; I
want a sketch of his. He goes to America —
well, what then ? Have you thought?'

He is to take With him a sum which ^Wll
keep him from poverty until a chance presents
itself of occupation.'

How much will it be ?' she asked, in a busi-
ness-like manner.

Hamilton had only settled this in his mind
within the last few minutes. He would be liberal
with his uncle's money ; there was a pleasure
in the act of distribution, and he had not much
to spare from his own means just then. His
uncle would elevate his shaggy, white eyebrows

presently, and tell him he had been infernally
lavish of the cash ; but the telegraphic
message had left the matter in his hands.

Two hundred pounds,' he said, in answer to
the last question put to him.

Aggie Challis was surprised. She changed
colour, and was a little short of breath for a
while.

That is a large sum for a youth to travel
with,' she said, very thoughtfully, at last.

Living is expensive in America ; he may
possibly go West, and seek his fortune there.
He may be months before he settles down,' said
Hamilton.

« To a hard fate, perhaps,' said Aggie. ' I
don't know. 1 can't see the end of his life —
it's beyond me. Two hundred pounds !'

Will you take charge of some of it, and remit
it to him at a future period, when you may
think he requires it?' said Hamilton; 'if you
consider it is unwise to trust him with this
money all at once, it would be better policy for
you to '

1 will have nothings to do with it,' said the

girl, firmly. ' Sam is to be trusted ; 1 could
always trust him. It is the one chance he has
ever had ; it comes at a good time, and we are
both grateful, God knows.'

The big eyes were raised towards the station-roof,
the gloved hands were clasped together ingratitude
to a greater Giver than Hamilton
Eedclove, and the fleeting attitude of reverence
impressed and awed him. He was glad that he
had come to Liverpool, and been of use in the
world, probably for the first time in his life.
This helping the outcast and forlorn was really
very pleasant work, especially with other folk's
money.

There was all the sensation of being a good
Samaritan, without any of the expense attached
to the assumption of the character, though, to do
our young gentleman justice, this view of the
case did not strike Hamilton at the moment.

CHAPTER Nil

A PARTING.

It was at this juncture that Samuel ChaUis reappeared
upon the scene. He had exchanged
his rags for a decent suit of clothes, purchased
at an outfitter's in the town ; he had washed his
face, and had his hair sheared, and was altogether
a presentable being. The process had
made him look taller, as he held his head more
erect, with the consciousness of being more respectable.
It was a difficult task to connect
him with the wild scene at the ' Harp ' tap that
Hamilton had witnessed the preceding night.

He-looked steadily at Hamilton, too— there
was no hang-dog glance under the brows now.

no lurking defiance iii the glitter of the dark
eyes, no regarding a man well-dressed and respectable
as an enemy to be wary of, or a 'toi*'
to scoff at. There was a likeness to the sister,
too, that was evident in his new estate, but
where it began or ended it was not easy to determine
at a glance.

Good day again, sir,' he said, respectfully, to
Hamilton. ' Well, Aggie, is this the cheese ? I
mean,' he corrected, ' is this the cut and style
suitable for a gentleman about to patronise the
states With a look up V

'There are plenty of pockets in the coat,'
answered his sister, with a forced lightness of
demeanour ; for Hamilton, watching her rather
than her brother, quickly detected a quivering
of the lips.

Yes, but there's nothing in them at present.
Not,' he added to Hamilton, ' that that was intended
for a hint, sir.'

You must pay your sister back for the outfit,
when you have funds at command, Sam,'
Hamilton suggested.

*No,' said Aggie; *that is my little contribution

to his new life. You do not object to my gi\dug
him a pilot coat V she added to Hamilton.

But '

But we have no time to discuss the question,'
cried the sister ; * I must be in the train in ten
more minutes.'

There was a pause, and she looked hard at
her brother.

I don't think we have anything further to
say, !Sam,' she said, hurriedly, almost nervously.
^ You understand everything — and you ivill do
your best.'

Yes,' answered Sam, stoutly ; ' I will.'

Upon your honour — always V

Always — upon my honour , Ag.'

And with God's help,' added Aggie Chalks ;
and so that's well said, Sam. Now Hasten tome,
not to the gentleman, for he's not quick in
explaining matters, and every minute is precious
to us. Our good friend here — for he must be
our friend— sends you to the New World with
more money than you have ever dreamed of;
he comes to you and me like a fairy prince, with
his hands crammed full of gold, and lends you

LENDS YOU, Sam, understand, for you are to
pay him back with interest, some day, every
shining that he has advanced — the sin of two
hundred pounds.'

Two — two hundred what T

Two hundred pounds.'

Lord, save us ! Do you mean it V

Yes,' said Hamilton.

Sam Chalks was surprised indeed ; — his lower
jaw dropped, and his eyes blazed with amazement.
Finally he turned pale, and looked as if
he were going to faint.

I don't make it out,' he muttered ; ' you
bind me to nothing V

'No.'

There are no conditions to all this, sir V

Only that you do your best with the money
I give you,' answered the benefactor.

That he lends you,' said the sister again ;
for, Sam, it should be your greatest effort —
your greatest pride in Hfe — to earn the money
back again to pay this gentleman.'

It shall be,' murmured Sam ; ' I promise I
will earn it.'

We shall be able to find you easily, I think,'
said Aggie to Hamilton, and to Hamilton's surprise
; ' and till then, and under any circumstances
which may have prompted you to seek
us out, we are your grateful debtors.'

But you stand aloof — you will take no favour
at my hands,' said Hamilton.

Oh, sir, let me repeat I have plenty of friends,'
said Aggie Challis in reply ; ' and here is one
whom I have been expecting during the last
half hour. He said he would come.'

Hamilton turned, and beheld a tall, lank man,
closely cropped and clean-shaven, in the dress of
a minister of the Church of England, advancing
to our heroine — for this prison-bird is the heroine
of our story, gentle readers. He seemed a man
of sixty till he was close to them, and then he
melted down to a stern-faced individual of four
or five and forty years of age, who looked as if
all the cares of the world were resting on his
narrow shoulders.

Good afternoon,' he said, huskily.

Good afternoon. I was afraid you would be
too late, Mr. Fayre,'she said, in a low voice to him.
Vol. I. P

I said I should be here in time,' he answered,
as if that assertion should have immediately dispelled
any doubt of his coming ; then his comprehensive
glance took-in Hamilton coldly and critically,
and passed onwards to Sam Challis, whom
he condescended to address.

Your sister has found you, then V he said, in
the same rasping tone.

I found her,' was the reply.

Are you going with her to Birmingham V

No,' answered Sam, and he edged away somewhat
from his questioner. 'I start for America
this afternoon.'

To America ? You !'

This gentleman has been kind enough to promise
my brother a passage to New York, and the
means of living out there until he can obtain
employment for himself,' Aggie hastened to
explain.

I hope the gentleman's generosity will not be
misplaced,' said Mr. Fayre, very coldly; then he
turned his back on Sam Challis, and, after another
glance at Hamilton, devoted his whole attention
to the young woman whom he had come to see.

He walked slowly towards the train with her,
both speaking in a low voice, and Hamilton said
to the brother,

Who is your sister's friend V

Blest if I think he's anybody's friend,' said
Sam, in reply, and in his slangy tones of last
night ; ' he chivied me so much last month that
I was obliged to cut and run from him.'

Chivied jour

Something that Aggie said brought him to
Liverpool after me,' Sam explained ; ' but then
Aggie was not Avise, and told him too much, or
else he read my letter to her, which was like his
confounded impudence.'

^Heis '

A minister.'

The chaplain of the prison in which your sister
has been?' inquired Hamilton.

The youth started.

Has she told you that V exclaimed Sam
Challis.

I knew it before,' answered Hamilton ; * but
she has made no secret of it.'

No— she is rather proud of it than otherwise,'

p2

said the brother, scornfully ; ' but you knew it,
you say V

Yes was the reply.

You seem to know everything — do you know
why she went to prison V

No.'

Ask that man presently,' said Sam Chalks
moodily, ' and ask him if he believes she was in
the Avrong. I don't like him — but he'll tell you
the truth — he'll tell you more than I can. You
see, I haven't cared until to-day very much
about anything.'

They stopped — Aggie Challis was in a third-class
compartment of the Birmingham train now,
with the sallow-faced minister standing at the
door. There were big tears in her eyes, and
Sam Challis muttered,

That's like him. He has been making her
miserable again — he'd make the de^dl himself
miserable,' he added, spitefully, ' if he had the
chance.'

Why is that r

He won't let people be — he talks too much.'
As they advanced, Hamilton heard Aggie

Challis say, ' I will not forget,' and the minister
stepped back to allow him to speak to her.

I will say good-bye at once to yon, sir,' the
girl said, extending her hand to Hamilton, ' and
thank you, and God bless yon for Sam's
sake as well as mine. If he is not too thankful
himself just yet, don't mind it — he is very strange
in his ways, but he will be none the less grateful
in his heart, I'm sure, for the great chance
you have offered him. Good-bye, sir. We shall
not meet again in life, but I shall not forget all
that you have done for us.'

Good-bye,' said Hamilton, shaking hands
with her very heartily, as with an old friend.
It was strange the interest he felt in her already
it was stranger that she should say they were
never to meet again. She had talked of her
brother's paying back the debt only a little
while ago, and of finding him, Hamilton Red-clove,
when it was necessary, and even if it
were years hence. He would have been glad
to remind her again that it was in his power to
help her too, that the chances of a better life
were not all for Sam Chalhs, but he was already

assured that her pride or dependence would"
repel the offer at that moment. He stepped
back to the side of the clergyman, who took no
notice of him, and who was stolidly surveying
the carriage, from the open door of which the
handsome girl was talking now very eagerly to
her brother.

Hamilton was content to watch the varying
play of emotion on that young, fair face — to
Wonder at it — to be more deeply impressed by
the position, than in his every-day life he had
been moved yet, for life had been self with him,
and self is a disease that eats into a man's heart
core.

He affected not to watch them, but he could
not keep his dark eyes from wandering in the
direction of this strange brother and sister who
were taking a painful leave of each other, who
might never meet again in this life, and whom
he had helped to part by the power of his
uncle's money. Surely for good this, whatever
might be Uncle Redclove's motives — surely the
one fair chance to Samuel Chalhs this time.
The sister spoke very rapidly and with great

excitement ; he could see her hips moving quickly,
and she was preferring him advice, encouragement,
and asking of him a promise in her
turn — the old promise perhaps to pay back his
debt of obligation some day. The gaunt minister
by Hamilton's side watched with him, but
with a grave, unmoved face.

Finally there was a burst of tears, two arms
were twined hastily round Sam's neck, and
withdrawn again, then the brother stepped back,
red-eyed, and with a face strangely convulsed,
and the guard slammed-to the carriage door and
whistled. The engine shrieked in answer, and the
train moved on, with Aggie Challis peering forth
again, and fighting hard to let her last look bea
semblance of a smile at them all.

Poor girl,' murmured Hamilton, and there
were tears in his own eyes for which he could
not account.

Why, poor girl V said the clergyman.

She is in trouble. There must be so hard a
life before her, I think.'

Do you pity her asked the minister, in his
deep, clashing voice.

Yes,' answered Hamilton, ' with all my heart
I do.'

Surely, she is above it, sir,' said Mr. Fayre,
sternly.

How is that V

Pity is for God's unfortunates.'

And she is not — one — who — V began Hamilton.


She is the best woman whom you have ever
met in your life — whom you are ever likely to
meet,' was the clergyman's solemn reply.

CHAPTER XIII.

DISAPPOINTMENT

The tall clergyman pronounced his verdict on
the character of Aggie Challis without the least
excitement or change in the tone of his voice.
He was looking after the receding train as he
spoke, and he Alas suddenly surprised and faintly
disturbed by Sam clutching his white hand
he wore no gloves — and pumping vigorously
at his arm.

Thank you, governor — thank you, old man !'
cried the brother, ' you're not such a hard one
as I thought you were, to say that of her. And
she deserves it all, too. Every bit of it.'

Mr. Fayre withdrew his hand as soon as he

was able from the spasmodic grasp of youug-
Challis, and said, very calmly,

We shall never be able to see much good in
yon, young man, I am afraid.'

No, that isn't likely, ' was the slow reply.
You are utterly wanting in stability.'

I have been walking over bog-land till today,
sir,' was the ready explanation.

And he never wholly sank through, his sister
tells me,' added Hamilton, in Sam's favour.

Mr. Fayre gave a slight grunt, but whether
of assent or dissent to hamilton Redclove's remark
did not clearly appear ; then he looked
down from his superior altitude at the youth
who had thanked him for his good opinion of
his sister.

You are going to America, Samuel V he
said.

Yes, sir.'

This afternoon V

'Yes.'

At what hour V

I ought to be on board in an hour and a half
but I haven't paid for my berth yet. Aggie

and I have been making a few inquiries. And
there's room for a fellow, they say, when the
money's ready.'

Oh ! they are anxious about the money V
asked Hamilton.

Yes, that's it.'

He spoke reluctantly. There was the same
objection to hint at his dependency that there
had always been. Hamilton fancied that Sam
Challis even blushed.

In this,' said Hamilton, producing a pocketbook,
' you will find the money which I promised
you. Go and secure your berth, Sam, and
get what things together that may be necessary.
You haven't any time to spare.'

Thank you,' said Sam, taking the pocketbook
somewhat unwillingly from the hands of
the donor.

And now, what ship do you go by, and near
what landing-stage V asked Hamilton.

The Star of the West, opposite the landing-stage
96.'

I will be there in time,' said Hamilton.

And I,' added the minister.

All right ; the couple of you, then.'

Samuel Challis moved very slowly away,
the pocket-book still in his hands. When he
was in Lime Street, he stopped, thought for a
moment, and turned back.

Hadn't you better give me most of this coin
when I see you at the river-side again V he
said.

'Why?' was Hamilton's rejoinder.

I might run away with it,' was Sam's explanation.
' You might think '

He paused, and Hamilton said,

I can trust you, Sam, with your own money,
surely V

The lad's face brightened quickly at this
assertion of confidence.

Oh ! this is mine now to do what 1 like
with r

Yes.'

Thank you,' he said, and walked briskly
away.

Hamilton Redclove and the minister went
slowly towards the Mersey-side. They had an
hour or so to spare, and Hamilton was curious

to learn the antecedents of Aggie Challis. But
the minister was curious, too, and was the first
With his questioning.

What amount of money have you given that
lads he asked.

Two lunched pounds.'

Mr. Fayi-e elevated his eye-brows ; it was his
turn to be sm-prised at the liberality of the
stranger.

It is an immense sum of money to bestow on
one person, and such a person as he is,' the minister
said, in a low voice.

I have no faith in cribs and drabs of cash
doing any good,' said Hamilton.

I hope, sir, he mil prove himself deserving
of your liberality.'

I hope so.'

And of your confidence in him,' added Mr.
Fay re.

You distrust him V asked Hamilton.

Yes,' was the candid answer, ' very
much.'

That do not I,' said Hamilton, stoutly ;,
there is something in the young fellow I like.'

I don't see anything in him myself to hke/
replied the minister ; ' I have found him always
sullen, and obstinate, and deceitful.'

That is a bad character,' replied Hamilton ;
possibly you were too severe with him.'

Mr. Fayre frowned at the assertion ; he was
not accustomed to be addressed in this fashion
by his juniors.

I told him the truth, and it was hard for him
to bear,' he said, shortly.

When the truth is told in a hard way, it will
jar,' said Hamilton, reflectively.

He was thinking of one or two unpleasant
truths which his uncle, Lord Redclove, had
fired off at him in his day, rather than of Mr.
Fayre's style of treatment of Samuel Challis' ;
but the minister took the observation to himself,
as might have been expected.

There is only one way of telling the truth —
simply and fearlessly, sir,' he said, sternly.

'Ah, well,' replied Hamilton, working up
again, ' I think there are two ways ; but we
swill not argue the point.'

There is no necessity.'

I would be glad, though,' said Hamilton, 'if
you would tell me something of the history of
that young woman whom Ave saw into the Birmingham
train a little while ago. Should I be
trespassing too much on your kindness by asking
for a few particulars concerning her V

You will find them in the newspapers of two
years since,' said Mr. Fayre, curtly.

The minister had not forgiven Hamilton his
previous comments on his style of discourse, and
Hamilton woke up to the fact that he had been
needlessly brusque, and had offended Mr. Fayre.
The prison chaplain was tetchy ; prison service
had hardened him a little, perhaps given him
some ' airs and graces ' of superiority over the
refractory and impenitent, over even the humility
and reverence that met him in his dark, objectionable
world. Hamilton hastened to make the
amende honorable.

Pardon me, sir, but I don't think I shall find
that history in the newspapers,' said Hamilton.
I shall read of an offence against the law, a trial,
the verdict of twelve honest, or stupid, menas
the case may be ; the unjust sentence of a

judge, perhaps, on one of the best of women
Mr. Fayre looked before him intently, without
replying to his companion's protest. They walked
on in silence for a hundred yards or more, before
the clergyman said, without a glance at
Hamilton.

You are very curious concerning Agnes
Chalks

I am interested in her and her brother.'

You are sent by Lord Redclove, I suppose,*
said Mr. Fayi-e, curtly; ' all this is Lord Redclove's
mission rather than your own V

Hamilton fairly jumped in his surprise.

How did you know — who has told you?*^
asked the young man, in his bewilderment.

I do not know, and no one has told me,' was
the laconic answer.

But what made you think '

Mr Overdo wn was at the Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield's house this week, and saw Mrs.
Dangerfield's father. All assistance to the illegitimate
children ot the late Mr. Dangerfield
was refused Mr. Overdown. Had Lord Redclove
more merciful thoughts afterwards, and did he

despatch you as an emissary to Liverpool?' asked
the minister.

Well, sir,' answered Hamilton, after a moment's
hesitation, ' yes.'

I thought so.'

My uncle — for I am Lord Redclove's nephew
was really impressed by Mr. Overdown's
story,' said Hamilton, ' and anxious to assist this
boy and girl, if it were possible to do so, without
any mention of his name. They had no claim upon
him ; he Alas even annoyed that Mr. Overdown
had called upon his daughter to state the case
of these unhappy children ; but, out of respect
to the last wishes of his son-in-law, he resolved
at last on helping them.'

Hence your appearance here V

eyes.'

You have made a terrible failure of it,' said
the prison chaplain, coolly ; ' you do not understand
human life and character, the poor and
criminal classes, and how they are tempted and
led away and sink ; you are too young and inexperienced
for the task Lord Redclovo has set
you.'

VOL. I. Q

'I don't see Iioav I have failed,' answered
Hamilton, reddening at this complimentary
estimate of his abilities.

It is a miserable failure from beginning to end,'
said Mr. Fayre.

Hamilton Redclove was never too ready to
submit to adverse criticism. He had had a
good opinion of himself, until the clergyman had
spoken. His idea was that he had shown extraordinary
tact in the delicate mission with
which he had been entrusted. It was an uncalled
remark to say that all that he had done
for the Challises was a miserable failure ; it was
an absolute impertinence.

Doubtless you — a minister of the Gospel —
would have managed much better than I,' said
Hamilton, satirically ; 'but then I had not the
pleasure of your acquaintance, and was unaware
of your great tact.'

I wrote to Mrs. Dangerfield some months
since.'

It is news to me.'

And she did not answer my letter.'

Indeed.'

I could have certainly managed this matter
better than you, and I should have been glad todo
so,' said Mr. Fayre. ' I have no patience with
anyone coming to Liverpool in hot haste and
flinging away large sums of money in a reckless,
foolish fashion.'

I have not been reckless, my dear sir,' said
Hamilton, with forced politeness, * or foolish.'

You are too confident,' answered the clergyman,
' and so too rash.'

And you are too distrustful,' said Hamilton,
far from politely on this occasion.

Mr. Fayre glowered down at his companion.

*Mine is not a distrustful nature, sir,' he replied,
.severely, ' but years of sad experience
have taught me to understand human nature, its
errors and temptations, and to act for it as God
and my own heart prompt. I am not often in
the wrong.'

This clerical gentleman was over-wise,
thought Hamilton, but he would not go out of
his way to disturb his equanimity again.

But I did not distrust Agnes Challis,' continued
Mr. Fayre, in self-defence again.

q2

No — that's true,' said Hamilton ; ' but why
you did not, puzzles me exceedingly.'

He was ingenious, and saw an opportunity to
draw the story from the clergyman after all.

Why should I have distrusted her V asked
Mr. Fayre, snapping at the bait.

She was found guilty. There were no
proofs of her innocence.'

She never said she was innocent,' replied the
clergyman.

How, then, have you arrived at so high an
estimate of her character V

By her manner — her cheerfulness — her faith,'
said Mr. Facere ; ' by her history, which I found
out for myself, which she did not deny, and
which '

« Yes, yes.'

And Which,' he repeated, ' I am not called
upon to relate to you.'

Hamilton was foiled — this tall parson was the
most disagreeable and aggravating personage
whom he had ever met.

Sir, I am greatly interested in this young
woman — in any way that I can be of service to

her, you may command me,' Hamilton said.

So that neither your name, nor Lord Red-clove's,
appears in the matter V

Hamilton remembered his uncle's instructions,
his uncle's fears.

Yes,' he replied.

'I am not partial to the anonymous,' Mr.
Fayre remarked, scornfully, * and Miss Challis
can do without your help from this day.'

Very Avell,' said Hamilton, nettled at the
reply.

The result of your benevolence — if it can be
called benevolence that brings you here — we
shall see in Samuel Challis.'

Yes, sir, in good time, I hope we shall,'
answered Hamilton.

He did not care to keep up the conversation
any longer with Mr. Fayre; the clergyman's
manner, his tone of superiority and reproof annoyed
him excessively, and all the trouble that
a lord's nephew had taken to be of service to
two unhappy beings, the minister thought but
little of. The money that he had given away
lavishly, he had been lectured for bestowing ; he

had had plenty of hard work, and no thanks,,
save from the girl who had gone away to
Birmingham. nes, Aggie Challis had not mistrusted
him nor misjudged him ; she thought
that he had acted for the best, and had not misplaced
his confidence in her brother ; she could
understand him better than this stiff-backed
parson.

He thought of her all the way to the great
landing-stage on the Mersey, and Mr. Fayre
stalked on, busy with thoughts of his own. The
mystery of Agnes Challis, coupled with Agnes
Challis's fair face and frank demeanour, had disturbed
Hamilton not a little, thrust him out of
his ordinary commonplace, easy-going sphere into
the region of romance — a rainbow-tinted
world at which he had always scoffed, taking
his lesson from an uncle who had gone through
life scoffing at everything that was not as clear
and practical and fanciful as Euclid's problems.
He would piece out Agnes Challis's
story for himself, in due course — if it could interest
this hard, malleable, angular beast
at his side, what a history it might be to him !

He was open to good impressions, and strangely
anxious to do good, after the fashion of all high-minded,
Christian gentlemen whose souls are
above their bank-stock.

The old and the new philanthropist, each full of
his own thoughts, contrived to lose each other
before reaching that portion of the landing-stage
where Sam Challis had arranged to say goodbye
to them. Mr. Fayre stopped at a book-stall
in his line of route, and Hamilton strolled onwards,
forgetful of him altogether, and it was
not till the time appointed that they met by the
side of the Mersey, along which the wind was
swooping with a keener force than ever. It
was bitterly cold now, and a shivering crowd of
men and women and children had congregated
to say farewell to each other, and to see the last
of the Stcu' of the West ere it steamed down
the river to the sea. Crowds of forlorn creatures
forlorn of habit and of heart were passing away
in boats to the big ship, but neither from the
ship's side, nor amidst the wan faces on the
landing-stage, was there to be caught a
glimpse of Sam Challis.

CHAPTER XIV.

NO S A M.

Hamilton Redclove did not betray any anxiety;
his pride would not allow him to own
that he had been deceived, even when the ship
was on the point of steaming away to the sea.

He has been detained — how closely he shaves
Ms time said Hamilton, cheerfully ; but ]mr.
Fayre only sternly regarded him, and walked up
and down for warmth's sake, with his unloved
hands clasped tightly behind him. The clergyman
took no credit to himself for being a truer
prophet than the younger man ; something in
Hamilton's face was expressive of a keen soitow,
rather than of a bitter disappointment, and this
rendered him respectful to the one discomfited.

The lord's nephew had acted unwisely, and was
suffering for it — he was sorry for him, but the
lesson of the evil of indiscriminate charity might
not be without its benefit. And yet, he thought,
later on, when the ship was moving, and there
were cheers from shore to ship, and ship to shores.
deceit such as this, practised upon a young,
impressionable man, might turn rash youth into

sceptic for ever. Another glance at the darkling
countenance, and he went softly to his side.

You have trusted one who was unworthy of
your trust — one who should have been treated in a
different fashion,' he added, as Hamilton stamped
his foot impatiently upon the floor of the landing-stage
: ' but you must not condemn a whole class
of unfortunates for the guilty actions of one boy.'

It was the boy's own money,' said Hamilton,
disinclined to give way; 'what is Sam Challis
guilty of, after all V

Ingratitude,' answered the clergyman.

Well — perhaps he was not too grateful,'
muttered Hamilton.

He did not quit the landing-stage at once ; he
clung to the hope of Sam's appearing, breathless

and in hot haste, to find that the steamer had
sailed without him; but the loungers melted
away one by one, the air grew keener with the
oncoming twilight, and the ship was long since
lost to sight.

He turned away at last, and the clergyman,
who had been pacing up and down the pier,
turned with him.

What do you propose doing V asked Mr.
Fayre.

Going to London by the next train,' said
Hamilton, coolly.

You will not try to find him again?'

Not L'

It is a pity you have had so long and purposeless
a journey !' the minister observed.

Yes, it is a pity.'

But you might have expected it with Samuel
Chalhs.'

Hamilton nodded, as though he agreed with
him; but his face had shadowed a great deal,
and his lips were closed tightly.

Certainly, I might have expected it,' was the
final echo back.

They went off the landing-stage together — at
the first street away from the river, a shipowner's
establishment attracted Hamilton's gaze, with
flaring red bills at the doors, announcing the
time of departure and the terms for a passage
by that fast and favourite steamer, the Star of
the West. There was a flight of steps, leading
to an underground office, with ' For steerage
passengers ' printed on the side-panels, and
Hamilton dived into the depths of the edifice
after a moment's hesitation. .

Wait one instant !' he cried.

Mr. Fayre waited for him. When Hamilton
reappeared, he answered the minister's inquiring
stare at once.

He called this morning and asked a few
questions.'

Yes — he told us that.'

And he has not been near the place since,'
said Hamilton.

Just as I thought,' answered Mr. Fayre.

Well said Hamilton, shrugging his shoulders,
the youth may get on better in England than
America ; in the New World they can afford to

clo without him. Good day, sir. Thank you
for the honour of your company.'

He smiled ironically, as he raised his hat to
the prison chaplain.

Good day,' responded Mr. Fayre, raising his
hat solemnly also, by way of a return salutation.
^ If I can make any inquiries for you concerning
this youth, in whom you are interested '

I have lost all interest, thank you,' interrupted
Hamilton. ' I do not wish to hear of him, or
from him, any more. My mission is ended,'

Ended — completely, do you mean?'

'I do.'

Very well.'

And you are right, Mr. Fayre ; it is a miserable
failure from beginning to end.'

So far as regards that ungrateful lad ; yes, it
is,' assented Mr. Fayre.

Hamilton said ' Good-day ' again, and hurried
from the clergyman. He did not wish to be condoled
with, or to be told once again to his face
that he had been next door to a fool in his method
of flinging away his money. His money, not
his uncle's : — he would never own to Lord Red-clove

how completely the gamin had got the
better of the gentleman. He was not 
with capital just then, bnt he would
prefer paying the amount to acknowledging the
failure. He would tell this uncle that Sam Challis
had distrusted him, and had vanished away before
reaching ship-board ; and his uncle would
never suspect him of being so complete an ass
as to trust Sam with two hundred pounds before
seeing him safe on deck of the outward-bound
vessel.

It was a complete failure — as bitter as it was
complete.

He had confessed it to the clergyman — he
owned it to himself again, as the express train
whirled him towards London. He should have
known better than to have become the victim of
this * confidence trick,' which Sam Challis had
played upon him.

1 have gone out of my way, and out of my
sphere, for the first and the last time,' he muttered
; ' that dark world lying beyond mine is
past all comprehension. I will never try to
understand it again.'

He had given up very early in the race, but
what was the use of any further effort ? He
would be always the dupe of these low, cunning
natures, never the adviser, helper, guide. The
masses, more especially the masses drifting on to
moral ruin, were beyond his power to impress,
and as far beyond — let him own it now — his inclination
to help them as was his comprehension
of them. He had accepted his failure, he had confessed
to it frankly at last, but his non-success had
not done him any good. It had rendered him
sceptical even of any good in others. What a
lucky thing for him even, he thought now, that
he had taken his uncle's advice, as regards the
sister. ' Beware of the girl !' — rang in his ears
still as he rattled Londoners. And he had
been very careful in that quarter, at least. He
had been very much on guard, he thought now ;
intensely wise, he considered, and not to be deceived
by any specious and deceptive manners,
by airs of frankness which were incompatible
with her position, or by airs of innocence not reconcilable
in any way with prison service. He
was very glad he had not shown any ' out of the

common ' interest in Aggie Challis, for after all
she was Sam's brother, one of a family full of
mystery, of deception — a family without a right
to be in the world.

Beware of the girl !' The train which rattled
him homewards seemed to clatter out the warning
in the noise it made, seemed to be singing it to
him like one of the mad choruses he had heard
the night before at the ' Harp ' where the wild
Irish had danced. ' Beware of the girl !' Certainly
that was the advice of a man of the world,
worldly, a man who did not believe in much, and
what he did believe in laughed at or satirised,
but it was a wise warning. Hamilton believed
in it now, as he shook the dust of his forlorn
expedition from his feet.

Beware of the girl !' — and yet there were
words of hers which hould trouble him even then,
and which he should remember as long as he
bore in mind that expression in her face which
was not like the look of a deceitful woman, of
one to be on guard, and in triple mail against.
Yes, ho would be wary of this Agnes Challis,
though it was not likely he should ever see

her again — though it was almost impossible.
Here was the end of the play, he considered,
with the green curtain down for good, and, sofar
as he was concerned, all the play-acting —
and such play-acting ! — at an end for ever.

CHAPTER XV.

CUPPLEDITCH S.

It would not be quite fair to the character of
Sam Chalks, to leave our readers in as great a
doubt as to the motives of his disappearance, as
Hamilton Redclove or Mr. Fayre had been left.
There are shadows enough about his life and him,
without this extra degree of blackness, which
seemed to have arisen from the utter depths of
a base ingratitude. Let us see for ourselves
why Samuel Chalhs did not keep his appointment
on the Liverpool landing-stage. It Tall, at
least, wash from this social blackamoor a shade
or two of sootiness.

Ashen Sam had left those who were anxious
about his moral regeneration, he had gone
straight home to Cuppleditch's— to the place

VOL. I. R

which, of late, he had called home, and where a
disreputable and dirty old fiddler, with some
spasms of humanity under his crust and his rags,
had saved Sam from starvation, or the workhouse,
or worse. Sam had not been wholly dependent
on Mr. Cuppleditch ; at times, had even
earned money enough to pay that gentleman
for a week's board and lodging, and had proved
himself at last of inestimable service as a deputy
at the ' Harp,' when Cuppleditch was down with
fever. And now — Mr. Cuppleditch being very
much down indeed, with all the breath of life
knocked out of him, and waiting patiently for
the Workhouse shell and the workhouse hearse
to make an end of him — it behoved Sam Challis
to take his respectful leave of an old patron,
and of Miss Cuppleditch, still in the flesh, and showing
a deal of it through rent portions of her
wardrobe, and, if not wholly prostrate with grief
at the loss of her father, still excited and hysterical
with rum which a friendly lodger had
brought down to her in a teacup, for comfort's
sake, ' and jest a sip or two ' to keep her nerves
together.

Miss Cuppleditch was a cripple, and grievously
afflicted. She had taken her affliction with philosophy,
however, and made some capital from it
by parading it in the streets, and soliciting alms
from those who pitied her, or turned a bit 'qualmish
' at the sight of her. She was a distorted
being, with her head wrenched round in a lialf-
hanged fashion, and with one shoulder nine inches
higher than the other, thus giving her a lean-to
and lop-sided appearance, which was rendered
less attractive by the right eye being absent, and
her tongue lolling unpleasantly from the left side
of her mouth. Report said that this crumpled condition
of anatomy was attributable to the late
Mrs. Cuppleditch, who, in her daughter's early
days, and her own irascible moments, was in the
habit of throwing the child about the room, or
down a flight or two of stairs, or at Cuppleditch's
head, but of this no authentic record is in existence;
certain it is that this identical Miss Supple
was ' an object,' and ^^et one which seemed
to attract the attention and sympathy of Sam
Challis, pressed though he was that day for
time. Her greeting was cold and sarcastic, and

K, 2

calculated to wound the feelings of one extra-sensitive,
which Sam was not.

What do you want back, you ugly imp V
growled forth Miss Cuppleditch — who, it must
be confessed, was a most unamiable lady, despite,
or rather on account of, her various infirmities.
AVhat's the good of you a-crawlin' about here
again V

I thought I'd come back, just for a minute or
two,' Sam explained.

'I don't want yer. You must clear out of
this sharp enuf now.'

When are they coming for him?' asked Sam,
with an easy nod towards the still figure in the
corner, lying on a heap of shavings with its face
covered With a newspaper.

I don't know,' was the peevish response ;
they're a devil of a time about it, anyhow, and
I want the blessed room straight.'

Poor old boy,' said Sam, walking to the corner
and looking down upon the dead fiddler ; ' his
were hard lines all through, Nance ; right to the
very end, and not one of them straight enough
to swear by.'

Nance did not reply, and Sam continued, still
reflectively,

I wonder what was the good of it all to him,
and why he was ever born at all ? Why, if he
had only lived a couple more weeks, they should
have been jolly weeks for him, I can tell you.
Hanged, if they shouldn't !'

What are yer jawing about V asked Nance,
a little curious, and even suspicious now.

I'll tell you while I wash, and make myself
clean and spry for company,' said Sam, taking
off his new pilot-coat and tucking up his shirt-sleeves,
' for I've got good news for you.'

Oh, have yer V

I've come into property.'

Get along.'

See how I'm togged out.'

Yes, yer've nicked a coat somewhere, that's
lor certain.'

I'm going away.'

That's a good job,' said Nance.

Going to America.'

That's a he,' she mumbled. ' Who's to '

I'm going to begin again, all by myself,

afresh. Do you understand that, girl ? and with
money to back me, friends to help me. S'elp
my God, Nance, it's every bit true,' he cried,
with great excitement evident, and with an extempore
step or two of a wild jig, cut short summarily
by a shooting pain in his side, in both
sides, in his chest.

Sam sat down suddenly on the late Mr. Supple
legs, which, the instant afterwards, he
pushed closer to the wall with a reverent, gentle
hand.

'Wot's the matter with jerk asked the
woman.

Feverish — swimming — spasms,' he explained.
' Get us some water, old girl ; will you V

Shan't.'

The jug's empty.'

Yer ain't a-going to wash here. This is my
room, ain't it ? And, if the old man was fool
enough to keep yer, I ain't. I hates yer. I
allers did. I hates everybody.'

Sam passed his hand dreamily over his forehead,
and then he laughed loudly.

You're a-going to fall head and ears in love

with me, Nance,' lie exclaimed ; 'you're a-going
to have me always in yom' prayers and evening
hymns.'

AVell, you are precious drunk,' said Miss
Cuppleditch, contemptuously; ' of all the ijeots — '

Look here, Nance,' shouted Sam, ' I won't
have any parish shovelling away of the old man.
I'm going to give you money enough to bury
him decently; I'm going to give you something
for a black dress and bonnet ; I'm going to show
you that I'm not as bad as people think, or as
ungrateful a hound as that old Fayre. fancies I

am ; I'm going to ' there was a long pause,

after which he shouted forth, indignantly, ' will
you fetch me any water in that jug, or not f

Do you expect me to wait on yer V screamed
Nance, ' you mad, silly, drunken young beast, you !
What next f

All right,' said Sam, with dignity. ' You'll
be precious sorry for this, mind you.'

He rose and walked to a broken-lipped jug in
the corner, and marched unsteadily out of the
room ^vith it. He had not far to go; but, had
any one been watching him, it would have been

apparent that he walked with considerable difficulty
from the cellar floor up the creaking stairs
to the back-yard, that was inconveniently
crowded by a big dust-bin and a slimy water-butt.
He was a long time filling his jug, which he
allowed to run over for a few minutes, and
which, when full, seemed unnaturally heavy for
him ; and, going down stairs again, he found
himself face to face with Nancy Cuppleditch,
coming up them on her hands and knees at an
uncommonly quick rate of progression.

Hollo, Nance. I might have trodden on you
and crushed you like a beetle,' he cried. ' Where
are you off to ? What's the row V

Back in a minute ; shan't be long,' she gasped
out ; ' don't run away afore I come back ; I want
to get something.'

*To get what r

Something for the old man. He's not dead,
Sam. Hes waking up F

Alive !' exclaimed Sam, joyfully : ' you don't
say so !'

Yes, alive. Wish I may die too, if he isn't.
It's wonderful !'

Sam pitched the jug and water into the yard,
sprang over Nance, and dashed back into the
cellar and to the heap of shavings, under which,
by a stretch of fancy, it might have been imagined
that Mr. Cuppleditch, ' up to his larks,'
might be now playfully hiding.

What, old man ; not dead, then ? Well, 1 am
glad— I '

Here the lad, kneeling by the side of the shavings
and scattering them right and left, and
tearing off the newspaper which still covered
the features of Mr. Cuppleditch, came to a full
stop, and glared down at the white, still face,
where no sign of life was flickering, or likely to
flicker again till the judgment.

It's not true,' Sam exclaimed, in little jerks ;
it's a lie of Nance's. Ha ! I see,' he yelled forth,
as he caught sight of his jacket lying on the
floor, with the pockets turned inside out, and
the pocket-book, which Hamilton Redclove had
given him, nowhere to be seen.

Stop thief r he shouted, in his dismay ; he
plunged upstairs again, and ran into the coiu-t,
and doAvn the court into the narrow, grimy street

beyond, and then, like a wild thing, along the
middle of the muddy road, sending np a cataract
of splashes, and screaming like the lunatic
he was. But there was no overtaking Nancy
Cuppleditch ; there was never a sign of her in
the dense streets ; she had vanished completely
away, and her old haunts knew her no more, or
hid her in them too closely and securely to be
found by Samuel Challis. He darted from one to
another, wild and furious and incoherent ; he
looked in at the ' Harp,' he ran from house to
house ; from lodging to lodging, of people as
bad off as he was, or as heartless and full of evil
as was Nancy Cuppleditch; and presently he
dropped like a stone in the middle of his o^vn
street, and two men, who knew him by sight,
carried him back to Cuppleditch's, and bundled
him in upon the shavings by the side of his dead
friend, and left him to come-to at his leisure.
And he came to presently, came back to delirium
and the fever which had settled Cuppleditch, to
a complete ignorance of passing things, and to
frantic accusations of robbery, and wild curses on
the robber — came to death's door, which remained

ajar for him for many days, and which all who
looked in upon him thought would open wider
and wider to admit him, and pass him through
after the old fiddler.

But Sam Challis pulled through, and death's
door closed slowly, and shut him out of it. Shut
him into real life again, with the world, dark and
full of evil, spreading out before him like a
puzzle map, and finding him just as he had ever
been, perhaps Averse than he had ever been, more
distrustful of those about him, and yet feeling
they were the surroundings of his life for ever
after this. Life's companions and child-en of
the mist with him, and plodding hopelessly together
over moorland and marshland, with no
light on their way, only the corpse candles to
lure and distract, and with no helping hand to
set them on a road which might, by God's help,
lead to brighter things.

Was this to be the end of all 1 —had he had his
one chance and lost it, poor Sam, after the fashion
of so many waifs and strays, who are as cruelly
balked at every turning-point which leads to
better days, as was his unlucky self?

i

i

THE MISTRESS OF ILVERCOMBE. 1

i

CHAPTER 1.

COMING BACK TO THE WORLD.

Five years after the disappearance of Samuel
Challis from respectable society, there came back
to the world — from which she had been as
seem-ely shut as in a coffin — a certain elderly
gentlewoman of whom slight mention has been
made in the course of onr narrative. No one
had wished her back particularly ; a few friends
who were allied to her by birth had considered
lier past praying for, and had almost forgotten
her existence ; only one or two physicians, deeply
interested in her strange form of disease, had
been energetic in her cause of late days, had
written articles about her in medical papers,
carefully disguising name and locality, and finally

had pronounced her cured of the malady
which had severed her from kith and kin from
the day that her son had died in Derbyshire.

Old Mrs. Dangerfield, for years considered incurably
mad, had recovered the use of her senses,
been congratulated on the acquisition, and been
bowed and smiled out of a lunatic asylum, the
proprietor of which relinquished with a sigh a
very comfortable source of income from that unlucky
day when his best patient came back to
her wits.

Mrs. Dangerfield senior returned to the world
a deeply lined lady of some sixty-seven years of
age, a thin-faced, spare old woman with soft
white ringlets and sad blue eyes, an unmistakeable
lady whom no one could associate with
raving madness and padded cells, save the
strong-minded young women in brown dresses
Who had watched her night and day for years,
and had had a ' rare time ' of it ^\'ith her till that
change came which was better late than never.
Better for Mrs. Dangerfield of Warwickshire, assuredly,
but not for her relatives who had trusted,
and chopped about, and amicably and un-amicably

arranged her estate between them
pending her decease, for which everybody was
waiting, and which everybody had expected long
since. There had been a great deal to re arrange
after Mrs. Dangerfield's unlooked-for return to
the enter world, but there had been no opposition
to the re-transfer of landed estates, railway shares,
India bonds, and three per cent, consols ; her
relatives were well-to-do without her property,
and there was no mistake of identity, or a question
as to the brains with which she had come back
to society. Mr. Dangerfield's solicitors took her
and her rights into their hands, and the lady
kept in the background, out of the Avorry, and
shrewdly inquired after everything that she remembered
— and she remembered everything,
even to an investment of five hundred pounds
in a silver mining company that had burst itself
to atoms for want of precious metal, and was
hopelessly beyond recovery before she had
recovered herself.

Yes, it was like coming out of a tomb to this
sad-faced lady with the white curls, and the coming
out depressed her, rather than raised her

VOL. I. S

spirits after all. She did not liiint up her relatives,
and they did not visit her in any number ;
her house in Warwickshire was in an out-of-the-way
part of the county, and only one or two
over-curious cousins looked in to make sure of
her, found her hale and shrewd and sensible, and
said good-day again. With several of her connections
she corresponded — with the widow of
her only boy, among the rest, but after a while
correspondence ceased, and old Mrs. Dangerfield
was left to herself and her old-fashioned mansion,
until suddenly and without any warning she
turned up in London to call upon those who had
not put themselves out of their way to call upon
her.

She went direct to her daughter-in-law's establishment
— the same house in Regent's Park
which one Daniel Over down had visited five
years ago — and was received with as much cordiality
as it was in the younger woman's nature
to bestow. It was a painful meeting at the outset,
bringing back grave reminiscences and terrible
antecedents, both women having been very
happy, and very proud of Paul Erasmus Wilberforce

Dangerfield Avhen tliej had seen each other
last. They had never been great friends, had
not met very frequently, had even ' clashed ' at
odd meetings unpleasantly, both being proud
positive women at that period, and this re-union
was, in the beginning, a stiff and angular affair
in its odd way. There seemed many topics to
evade, and delicate subjects to glide gracefully
round. Old Mrs. Dangerfield's solicitors had had
to meet young Mrs. Dangerfield's solicitors on
business matters very often of late days, for although
no legal transfers of property could have
been made during the lifetime of the old lady,
still Paul Dangerfield had managed entirely his
mother's estate before his decease, and the
family lawyers had been a trifle lax in details
afterwards, - not reckoning on present results.
Therefore ' business ' was tabooed. The mental
illness of the old lady was also not a pleasant
subject to dwell upon, and the daughter-in-law
only expressed a grave kind of satisfaction at
seeing a well-known face again, and then hoped
that she did not find the house in Warwickshire
too dulls

2

'No, Paul was born there,' answered then
other, with a sigh. ' I have been always attached
to the place.'

Here again was a grim silence. The widow
never spoke of the dead husband. Grief, pride,
or shame seemed to have sealed for ever the hips
of the Honourable Frances Dangerfield — the
husband was a topic on which no one dare wax
eloquent in Regent's Park. Her daughter Estelle
never alluded to her father in her mother's
company — it is probable that since the A-isit of
Daniel Overdown, when the gunsmith's brusque
arguments had distressed the younger Mrs.
Dangerfield considerably, silence had for ever
reigned in that establishment concerning its
missing master.

The tall lady, still a graceful, handsome woman
for nine-and-thirty, shivered perceptibly at
this sudden introduction of the husband into the
discourse, and a new hardness of intonation seemed
to accompany her reply.

It is a dull home for you,' she said, ' you
would be more comfortable in town.'

I may have my town-house presently,' replied

the old lady, as she regarded her daughter-in-law
attentively, ' although you may remember that
I always disliked London, Frances.'

Yes, I remember,' replied the widow.

Yon wear black still,' added old Mrs. Danger-field,
' it is for him, 1 hope V

It is that black sits with my thoughts and
my taste,' was the evasive reply, ' and that I
leave bright colours for the young.'

Ah ! for Estelle. Where is she ?'

You will see her presently. She is riding
with her cousin Hamilton.'

Hamilton Redclove — Lord Redclove's nephew
V

Yes.'

They are engaged to each other, perhaps V

The younger Mrs. Dangerfield's colour heightened
for an instant ; then she answered quickly,
almost sharply — as one sometimes answers a
question that is fired off point-blank, and without
warning — ' Oh no ; nothing of the kind.
Hamilton does not call upon us very frequently
he travels a great deal — we lose sight of him
for months together.'

Estelle is quite a young woman V said the-elder
lady, dreamily.
Yes — quite.'

A blessing to her mother as an only daughter
should be ?'

I have no complaint to make against Estelle.'
It was a cold answer — it lacked all that warmth
and enthusiasm with which a mother speaks of
her only girl as a rule. The lady from Warwickshire
detected this at once — her soft grey eyes
lighted up for an instant with an anxious, inquiring
glance, which met with no response from
her companion. There was no confidence to be
given or received — possibly nothing to conceal
under that apathetic demeanour, which years of
self-repression, of hard prayer, of asceticism
almost, had given to the widow.

The elder lady continued her inquiries — she
had evidently come back to the world to ask
unpleasant questions.

Is she like her father?' was the next query.
I do not think so.'

I am impatient to sec her. I left her a child
somcAvhat sickly and fretful.'

Estelle enjoys very good health,* was the
calm reply.

The old lady w-as silent for a while, and the
daughter-inlaw sat With her hands clasped
round a large ivory cross hanging at her breast.
Frances Dangerfield started no fresh subject of
discourse, made no effort to turn the conversation
into a different channel, but sat unmoved beneath
the ordeal of an inquiry which she would bear
and suffer from his mother, as it was her duty
to bear. A woman always intensely strong on
the matter of duty, she had considered herself
from the time that Lord Redclove had delicately
hinted that Paul Erasmus Wilberforce Danger-field
was a young man whose attentions he
should not be sorry to see encouraged by his
stately daughter.

Suddenly, Mrs. Dangerfield, of Warwickshire,
broke into inquiry once more. This was a terrible
and shrewd old woman whom the keepers
had let escape them. She had been severe and
proud in her old days, with a big love for her sou
rendering her womanly and sympathetic in all
tidings affecting his interest, but she had changed

with her malady, or after it. She leaned forward
and drew the right hand of her daughter-in-law
down from the ivory cross.

Before anyone comes to interrupt us,' she
said, in a quick, eager tone — ' those children V

'What children?' asked Frances Dangerfield.
She knew what her companion meant, but she
would not willingly affect to comprehend it.

His children, by that woman,' answered
the other, very eagerly ; ' they trouble me — there
were a boy and a girl — what has become
of them r

I do not know,' was the impassive reply.

You have not taken the trouble to inquire,
you mean V

Why should I V the widow said, slowly.

The white-haired lady paused at this — well,
why should Frances Dangerfield inquire about
them ?

I thought you might have heard in someway,'
said the elder woman, almost apologetically
, ' that they might have been in distress, orin
temptation, and have applied even to you for
assistance. Heaven knows, my dear Frances,

what one in your position slionld feel, or ought
to feel, under such circumstances ; but they are
my greatest trouble now — those two !'

The widow was apparently unmoved by the
anxiety at the heart of her mother-in-law, and
she had never been anxious herself about Samuel
or Agnes Challis, who stood a long way back
from her self-righteousness or from her interest,
atoms of an unknown world beyond her godly
sphere.

I cannot give you any information,' answered
Frances, with great calmness of demeanour; *some
years since a working man called with an appeal
almost an insolent one — for assistance, but it
was thought advisable to refuse it'

You thought so V asked the mother-in-law,
curiously.

I left the decision to Lord Redclove — it w-as
too painful a matter for me to discuss. I was
younger then, and less resigned.'

And Lord Redclove considered it advisable to
refuse assistance to those children V

Yes.'

On what plea, Frances V asked the old

woman, whose insatiable curiosity no reserved
demeanour could check.

I scarcely remember,' was the apathetic
answer.

Establishing a bad precedent? — acknowledging
an obligation which might be difficult, at
some future time, to disclaim ? — bringing round
yourself and your father a brood of beggars
always clamouring for money ? — what was the
excuse which Lord Redclove thought himself
justified in offering to those who asked for charity
? Can't you remember anything about it V
cried the elder Mrs. Dangerfield, with considerable
excitement now.

The one appealed to looked from under her
long lashes at the speaker — and the thin white
hand went slowly upwards to the cross again.
Was this mother-in-law really cui-ed of her malady
to seek her out in this fashion, and ask these
awful questions of her ? She was not alarmed,
but she was not sorry that the door was opening,
and Hamilton Redclove advancing into the room.
Here was her excuse — her substitute — at the
fitting moment.

I cannot tell you what my father's reasons
were, Mrs. Dangerfielcl,' said Frances; 'very
likely Hamilton can. Hamilton,' to her cousins
this is Mrs. Dangerfielcl, of Warwickshire.'

Indeed,' said Hamilton, bowing very politely,
Mrs. Dangerfield scarcely remembers me, I fear.'

Oh ! yes — I remember yon very Avell,' was
the quick answer, ' yon and your uncle, too.
Will you sit down, please — whilst I ask a question
which your cousin is reluctant to answer for
herself?'

I am not reluctant — I have no power to
answer you,' said her daughter-in-law, rising. ' I
Avill go to Estelle now. When I return with my
child, I trust that a subject, which is sorely distressing
to me, may be ended for good.'

The old lady watched her out of the room,
sighed heavily as the door closed, and then
directed her attention to Hamilton.

What has become of Agnes Chalhs and her
brother, Mr. Redclove V she repeated, and at
once. ' Tell me all you know about them, please.
I am an old woman, With their troubles at my
heart.'

Tell you all I know V repeated Hamilton.

Yes ; you know more than your cousin. You
have news for me, and I am waiting very
anxiously. Tell me everything, please, and keep
back nothing. I want all the truth.'

CHAPTER 11.

STILL CURIOUS.

Hamilton Redgrave, faced suddenly by a lady
eager for news of those to whom clung more
than one ugly reminiscence, was not as ready
with his answers as old Mrs. Dangerfield could
wish. He had lived down the unpleasant fact
of his being swindled out of two hundred pounds,
of his being ass enough to part nth his money
to a young vagabond whom he had discovered
down a back-street in Liverpool ; but he had not
forgotten one item of the facts. He had lost a
good deal of faith in human kind since : some
people thought that he had grown as sceptical
and satirical as his uncle, without the infirmities
of gout and advancing years to offer an excuse

for him; but there was no small amount ot
affectation about his sharp ways and bitter
speeches, and, in the society that pleased him, no
one could be more agreeable. He was not a
bad-tempered young fellow at heart, only one of
those eccentric cubs of men who put themselves
out of their way to disturb the equanimity of
their species. Hard to please certainly, but, when
he Alas pleased, ' such a dear I' the ladies affirmed
; and, in laches' company, Hamilton, a good-looking
young fellow of seven-and-twenty noA^^
was always at his best. His own sex he did not
like : his uncle's friends he satirised unmercifully ;
at his uncle's grand dinner-parties. the guests
enjoyed the banquet more heartily when he was
not invited to scoff at their politics and then* sentiments
and their grammarians to interfere with
every opinion that clashed with his own.

They were always a disagreeable lot, these
Redcloves,' people said, too ; ' but the next lord
the one that is to be when the sour uncle dies
will be the worst of a bad bunch, that's certain.'

It was this young man whom Mrs. Dangerfield
charged with questions relative to an objectionable

episode in this life, before lie had had time
to shake hands With her, and to take a chair at
her side. He was startled by the old lady's
earnestness ; he had not met with any great degree
of earnestness of late days in a circle whereto
grow demonstrative upon any subject was to
become vulgar and low, and he took time to
consider his reply.

Tell me all you know about them, please. I
am an old woman with their troubles at my heart,'
she had exclaimed, in real agony of spirit ; but
then she had come out of a mad-house, poor old
girl, he thought.

]\Iay I ask, Mrs. Dangerfield, who told you
that I knew anything of the Challises V he said
at last.

Your cousin, who has just left us.'

She could only have guessed that. I have
never spoken of them to her — she has never
sought to inquire.'

But you do know,' said Mrs. Dangerfield.

Very little,' he replied.

And you ^vill tell me V

What can I tell you, save that tli^y are better

left to themselves ; that they are not what I consider
grateful beings.'

Grateful for what f

Hamilton did not answer. He thought of his
two hundred pounds — that unpleasant fact which
he had kept to himself at his own cost.

'What have they to be grateful for? — what
interest has ever been shown in them V said Mrs.
Dangerfield, plaintively.

Hamilton shrugged his shoulders, but still
maintained silence. Explanation in that direction
was impossible.

It is not that I expect any sympathy from you
or from Frances,' continued the old lady. ' You
have your own worldly affairs to study, and
Frances is aggrieved at the very mention of
their names. But 1 am interested in them ; I
know the story of a past unhappy attachment
between my son and the mother of those children
whom I cannot bear to think of, battling, perhaps,
with privation. I would help them, possibly.
If you have any information to offer concerning
them, give it to me. I ask it as my right, in the
name of my dead son.'

The old lady looked very impressive in her
earnestness, as she made this declaration ; and
Hamilton turned and said,

It is five years ago since I saw them last, since
I went to Liverpool in search of them. The information
I received then, Mrs. Dangerfield, I
can impart to you, if it be worth anything.'

You went in search of them V

At my uncle's bidding, and unknown to his
daughter.'

I suppose I must thank Lord Redclove,' she
murmured. ' Go on.'

I met both Samuel Challis and his sister.
The boy was a vagabond in appearance and at
heart ; a Bohemian who had run wild, who was
untrustworthy and false even to those who
might have been of service to him.'

Well V

He was afraid of me, or of my inquiries.
After receiving a little assistance from me, he
broke his word to meet me again, and disappeared.'


And the daughter Agnes V

Hamilton paused again. Ho had nothing to

VOL. I. T

say against Agnes Challis; her sweet, pale face
had haunted him, a dream and a mystery for a
longer period than he cared to own, until
the time when his curiosity, or a something
higher and better than that, had led him to
study her past life, and her past offence against
the law, to sift out the whole story, as best he
was able, from the pages of a country newspaper.
What he thought of Agnes Challis now,
he scarcely knew himself. Believing her guilty,
could he believe in aught else save in her complicity
with her brother's scheme to secure the
money from him — in her immense powers of
deception, that had even hoodwinked the chaplain
of the prison wherein she had been incarcerated
? He thought that he believed all this,
but he would not tell the old woman what was
in his thoughts, or stand in the way of a better
life for the girl — he was not quite certain of the
mercy, even the justice, of the step. He had
been always confused when thinking of Agnes
Challis; he was confused again now; his cousin's
mother-in-law had brought her unexpectedly
into the foreground, and her history he would

leave for more charitable folk than he to relate.

'The daughter Agnes went to Birmingham,
to the house of one Daniel Overdown, a gunsmith,
resident in Prosser Street,' he replied.

Is that all you knows'

That is all.'

It is very little, and five years are so long,'
said Mrs. Dangerfield, with a sigh. ' vas this
Daniel Overdown her only friend T

There was a clergyman, a Mr. Edwin Fayre,
interested in her, and who held a high opinion
of her at that time,' said Hamilton. ' You Avill
find his address in the clergy list, I have no
doubt'

Can he tell me what has become of her, do
you think V

I think it is very likely.'

Who is speaking of Edwin Fajn-e ?' said a
soft voice at the further end of the room, and
Estelle Danger-field entered from another door,
and came towards the speakers, followed by
her stately mother.

When Estelle and her grand mamma had embraced,
the old lady put two fair, white, withered



eel hands on the girls shoulders, and looked
long and lovingly at her. Here was one Ink to
the past which she would not willingly snap for
all her daughter-in-law's coolness towards her.
Here was her son's child to touch a heart that
had known much care, and yearned for more
affection than it had ever been lucky enough to
receive. Estelle was a tall, fair girl, with big-grey
eyes, and a white, plain face ; as tall as
Aggie Challis, but not as pretty, Hamilton had
often thought. She was a half sad, half weary-looking
young woman ; and, although there
Alas some of the self-restraint, or aggravating-apathy,
of the mother about her, she kissed the
old lady warmly, and placed her own hands on
those of her relative as they rested on her
shoulder.

Do you know anything of Edwin Faste,
then, my dear?' asked the grandmother.

I finished my education with his daughter
Bella eighteen months ago. I left her to the
undivided attention of Miss Gilchrist, at Tudor
House. I am going to see her in a few weeks,
with mamma's permission.'

She turned round and made a formal curtsey
to mamma.

I am not quite certain I can grant the permission,'
replied the mother ; ' I do not admire
the young lady whom yon have chosen for a
friend. She is too light in her manner.'

The young lady should be light, Frances,'
remarked old Mrs. Dangerfield ; ' youth passes
away, and care comes quickly to all of us.'

The daughter-in-law still maintained her
position. She had been always hard to move,
for that matter, despite her apparent gentleness.

Miss Fayre is a clergyman's daughter, and
should be staider of demeanour,' the mother
said ; ' she has an example to set to others — she
has her father's dignity and holy office to
respect. I do not admire Miss Fayre in any
great degree.'

Have you ever seen her, mamma V was the
quiet inquiry.

I estimate her character from the opinion of
one of her dearest friends.'

There was a little emphasis on the superlative
degree — a little sharpness even in the mother's

answer, as if Miss Fayi-e had come between the
mother and daughter, and taken some love to
herself, which the mother was jealous of losing.
There was only Estelle to love in the Honorable
Mrs. Dangerfield's neutral-tinted world, and
Estelle seemed almost as fond of other folk as of
herself. This had been a new trial to bear, we
may say at once, for the better understanding
of our widow's character.

Where does Mr. Fayi-e reside V asked the
old lady.

In Warwickshire,' replied the granddaughter.
He is rector of Praying ; you must know him
yourself.'

Grayling is seven miles from my home, and
I never go to church.'

'Never attend Divine service!' exclaimed
Frances Dangerfield, exhibiting more animation
at this extraordinary assertion than she had
hitherto displayed.

Grayling is the nearest church, and I give
my horses a rest on Sundays, and let my
servants go instead of me. I am not happy in
church — not fit for it,' she added, very solemnly.

Mrs. Dangerfield the younger looked up at
the ceiling, and silently offered a prayer for her
irreverent mother-in-law on the spot. Conversations
flagged after this — an effectual damper had
been put on it by the last remark — and it was
in a very mild and flabby manner that old Mrs.
Dangerfield was asked to stay to dinner, an invitation
which was promptly declined.

Thank you, Frances — no,' she said, rising ;
this is a passing call only. I wish to be in
Birmingham this evening,' she added, looking at
Hamilton — ' and in my own Warwickshire home
tomorrow morning.'

Then I shall not press you to stay,' said
Frances, calmly.

But I will press you to come and see me — to
bring your daughter with you. I am not anxious
to keep my big house to myself. Estelle is
my son's child and must not keep away.'

It was a significant hint, and Mrs. Danger-field,
of Warwickshire, Alas well-to-do in the
world, with power to leave her money where
she pleased. Estelle's mother knew this, and
though she was far from a mercenary woman,

still there was Estelle, and Estelle's chances in
life to consider.

< Thank yoii,' Frances Dangerfield said ;
Estelle will come to Warwickshire and see you.
She will be near her friend, too,' she added, ina
sadder tone.

And your

I am not fond of change — but some day, I

hope, I ' And then the Honourable Mrs.

Dangerfield's voice faded away. Her will was
not strong enough to promise anything for herself,
and in her mother-in-law's society there
was no attraction for her ; only awkward and
ugly references to a past which had embittered
her life.

The old lady did not repeat her invitation.
She departed after a few more words, and
Hamilton went down with her, opened the door
of her carnage, and was the last to shake hands.
She retained his hand for a moment or two
longer than was necessary, and peered closely
into his face.

When do you see sour uncle again V she
inquired.

I hardly know,' he said, laughingly ; ' I am
supposed to be his private secretary, but work
is not pressing.'

Tell Lord Redclove, when you see him,' she
added, with a set expression on her face, which
rendered it hard and sharp as a statue's, * that I
have come out of the mad-house.'

Hamilton was startled, but he was a man who
prided himself on disguising his emotion — a
sham philosopher.

His lordship will be charmed to hear that
you have recovered from your indisposition thus
happily,' Hamilton said, bowing over the hand
still in his own.

Happily !' she echoed ; then she passed into
the carnage, and looked out of the window at
him. ' You may come to Warwickshire when
Estelle's there, Mr. Redclove,' she said through
the open window. ' I think I should be glad
to see you. If I am disappointed, why, it's easy
for you to go away again.'

I shall be delighted !' he muttered.

And now, please, tell the coachman to drive
to the North Western Railway Station. I am

going to find Daniel Overdown at once.'
Hamilton, thus requested, gave the necessary

order, and then old Mrs. Dangerfield was whirled

away. He stood looking after her carriage fora

moment.

They have only half-cm-ed that old party,'

he soliloquised ; ' I shouldn't wonder if she does

not give her friends and relations a heap of

trouble presently.'

CHAPTER III.

FOLLOWING ON.

Paul Dangerfield's mother had been a woman
of wonderful energy in her youth, or else she
had resolved to make up by extra exertion for
years of supineness in the asylum from which
she had been set free. Somewhat old, somewhat
feeble, with a general shakiness of gait,
she did not appear to be a woman capable of
any great exertion, but, rather, one fast leaving
health and strength behind her, and requiring
careful nursing for the remainder of her life.
Appearances were deceptive, however, and Mrs.
Dangerfield showed no diminution of vigour in
her expedition. She reached Birmingham in
three hours, hired a cab, and drove off" immediately

to Prosser Street — a dark, naiTow, delighted
thoroughfare, which even at that early
hour of the evening might have daunted a
stronger nerve than hers to explore.

The old lady did not think of danger; she
had made up her mind to find Mr. Overdo wn,
and she was busy with inquiries of any and
every one whom she encountered from the moment
that she had told the cabman to wait for
her at the corner of the street. After discovering
that the object of her search was living at
No. 700, she repaired to the house, and knocked
for admission. Before the knocker was out of
Mrs. Dangerfield's hands, the door was opened
by a quick hand from Within, and the old lady
was half slung into the room — which proved to
bee immediately behind the street door.

It was Daniel Overdown himself, who apologised
for the jerk he had given to his visit oi-and
backed and made way for her, as she, without
any ceremony, went to the side of an empty
fire-grate, sat down on a cane-bottomed chair,
and looked eagerly round the room, as for someone
whom she had expected to discover.

Mr. Overdown closed the street door, followed
her across the room, leaned against the mantelpiece,
and surveyed his visitor with grave
intentness.

Old Mrs. Dangerfield was in no hurry to
speak. After a close inspection of the bare
boards, the scanty furniture, and the yawning
fire-grate, she looked steadily at the gentleman
on whose premises she had intruded, undaunted
by his half-curious, half-amused look at her, in
return. Five years had not altered him much,
and Mrs. Dangerfield looked upon a prim, dapper
little man, with very black hair and sharp
black eyes, whom we have seen for ourselves in
Derbyshire, and later on at Regent's Park.

'You are Daniel Overd^^vn'?' she said at last.

Yes, madam ; and to what is he indebted
for the honour of this visit?' he inquired in his
turn.

I had expected to find an older man,' she
said, thoughtfully.

Daniel laughed.

Oh ! we delegates rise to the surface rapidly,
being light and frivolous bodies, with no reverence

for the employer's heavy percentages on
our labour he said ; ' but there, if it is anything
about the strike, I am sorry to say I would
prefer not being converted by a lady

You are on strike V

'Yes — a long strike this time,' said Daniel,
'but we are likely to win.'

'You seem in distress here?' she remarked,
looking round the meagrely-furnished apartment.


I share privations with my mates,' answered
Daniel, ' so that the enemy shall not presently
say I lived by their distress. Delegates, you
must know, madam — leaders and promoters of
strikes — are supposed to wax fat on the troubles
of those who put faith in them. It's a lie, as a
rule — it's a very big lie in my case,' he added,
slapping the mantel-shelf heavily with his hand.

I have not come to talk about the strike — I
know nothing of it.'

I am glad of that,' he said, drawing another
chair towards himself, and sitting down opposite
her ; ' and now, may I ask what you do want ?
I have to address a meeting in half-an-hour,

and cannot give yoii a great deal of my
company.'

'I want to know where Agnes Chalcis is?'
said the old lady at once.

Daniel Overdown drew his chair some inches
closer to her, and said,

'Why?'

To be of help to her, if she needs help, and
to be her friend, if she is an honest young
woman,' said the old lady.

I don't think there is a better young woman
in the world,' said Daniel Overdown, reflectively
; ' I haven't met nth one, if there
is.'

Where is she V

In good hands,' he answered.

This is not a fit place for her — this miserable
home is '

Spare me — the home Alas not always like
this,' interrupted Daniel. ' I was the first to
discover it was not fit for her; and then she
Avent away.'

Tell me where ?' asked Mrs. Dangerfield,
eagerly.

Will you tell me first who you are ? I like
things square, as a start-ofi".'

My name is Dangerfielcl. I live at Overcome,
in this county.'

Daniel Overdone considered this for a few
moments, looking attentively at his visitor
meanwhile.

You must be the mother of the man who
died at Grey Tor Vale, in Derbyshire V he said
at last.

I am.'

But you were '

His death turned my brain, for a time — yes,'
she said, replying to his unfinished question.

Then you are all right again V

I hope so.'

You are the very woman I wanted to get
hold of years ago,' he cried. ' I wanted help
then, and couldn't find it. There were two
poor souls drifting away, as it seemed to me,
without a Christian to help them — unless a poor
clergyman, and a unmake out of work, both
with their hands tied, were to be taken into
account, which they were, after all. At all

events we saved the girl when she-when

she came ont of prison. Don't hesitate
— I know the whole story.'

'I doubt that,' said Daniel Overdown, confidently.
' I don't that very much. However
I took care of Aggie— I offered her a home, confidence,
and affection, and she found all these
till my father died, and my mother followed
him.'

'And then?'

And then — though she did not care to leave
me in my trouble — she found another home.'

Well — what home V asked Mrs. Dangerfield,
impatiently.

The clergyman's. He had come into property,
and a fair living, at last. His wife was
dead, and he Avanteded a companion for his daughter,
and,' added Daniel Overdown, with a sudden
gulp of something in his throat, ' I persuaded
Aggie Challis to go.'

That clergyman is a Mr. Fayre — vicar of
Grayling.'

Yes, that's right.'

How long has she been away from you V
VOL. I. U

Five or six months.'

You were sorry to part with her V

'Aj, madam,' he said, frankly; ' awfully sorry.
But this was not a home for Aggie after the
mother was gone — I could see that sooner than
she could. She was earning her own living asa
daily governess to a family at Edgbaston —
for her mother had given her a good education,
and she was no expense to me ; she had no
other friends, she said, but I wrote to Mr.
Fayre.'

He beat his hands slowly on his knees, and
stared hard at the fireless grate. There was an
expression of deep pain, of deep thought on his
face, and his forehead had grown strangely
furrowed within the last few moments.

I am glad you did not ask the girl to marry
you,' said Mrs. Dangerfield.

He sat back in his chair with a force that
nearly split it.

AVho says I thought of such a thing?' he
exclaimed.

'It seemed quite possible to me, that's all,'
was the quiet answer.

'But not to me,' said Daniel, with considerable
excitement ; ' she's a lady, in her way — I
am only a mechanic. Do you think I would
have asked her? — set up my claim to her on
the little that I had done to help her — led her
to mistake gratitude for love, and talked her
into it — robbed her of every chance of bettering
herself in this world, as, later on in life, she
might have told me I had. Oh, no ; that is not
Dan Overdown's style — he's a cut above that
kind of thing !'

And, after this odd exhibition of conceit, he
sprang from his chair, and walked up and down
the room, with his hands in his pockets and his
dark eyes gleaming.

She must be three and twenty V mused
Mrs. Dangerfield.

That is her age, madam. Getting very old,
she calls it, with that dear, sad look in her eyes,
you know — oh, I forgot, you don't know !'

I shall be glad to see her,' said Mrs. Danger-field.
' I am more glad to hear she is a good
3^oung woman now.'

She was always good,' answered Daniel

u2

Overdown, sharply ; ' what right have you to
doubt her now V

She has been in prison.'

Do you know what for V

Felony,' said the old lady, nth a shudder.

'You know nothing about it,' cried Dan
Overdown, with excitement. ' She's an angel
not a woman. There never was a thought
of evil in her — never one scrap of it. Don't goto
Aggie Challis with one suspicion of her in
your heart,' Daniel Overdown raved on ; * she
would rather you kept away from her than that.
And, indeed, what is the use of your worrying
the girl ? She is strong, ^^dthout you ; no one
knows her story but Mr. Fayre — it might be as
well, old lady, to leave her to herself. Your
notice of her only rakes up the ashes.'

The ashes of a bitter past — yes,' answered
Mrs. Dangerfield ; ' but then, this girl is my son's
daughter, after all, and I could be of service to
her.'

It is too late, thank heaven,' said Daniel
Overdown ; ' she is able to be of service to
herself and others, and I very much doubt if

she is not too proncl to accept a charity so long
delayed as yours has been.'

By adversity, not by inclination,' answered
her visitor.

Ah, I beg your pardon ; I had forgotten
said the unmake ; ' but I was only thinking of
her. I hardly know that I think of much else,
after all.'

Mrs. Dangerfield rose from her chair and
stood by the fireplace, with her curiosity still
unsatisfied as regarded this excitable and singular
young man.

I am glad you did not ask the girl to marry
you,' she said for the second time ; and, to Mr.
Overdown's surprise again, ' You were noble
and generous and honest towards her in this as
in all else. For you are very poor,' she added,
looking round the room.

Had I been a prince, it would have been all
the same,' he replied ; ' I would have waited till
I was sure it was not gratitude, as I wait now.'

You wait — for her !' exclaimed Mrs. Danger-field,
almost resentfully.

'■ Ah ! that slipped out ; think no more of it,'

he cried. ' That's a big folly which I ought to
have hidden from you.'

Does she know it V

Oh, no ; I have taken care of that.'

'■ It is wise of you.'

If I were to meet her a year or two hence —
after she has seen the world, as it were — and
she was single still, why, poor or rich, madam, I
should not scruple to ask her to become my
wife. I fancy I should have a right then.'

She might be moving in a very different
sphere from yours.'

She would always remember what her sphere
has been, and be not too proud to look towards
it again. That is — of course — that is, if — confound
it, don't ask any more questions, please !'

How much time have you to spare V

Five minutes. The procession will be here
then.'

The procession V

We march in state through the town — a few
thousands all on strike, all unjustly oppressed,
all with one gigantic grievance, which we are
determined to crush.'

Is there any assistance I can be to yon — in
money, I mean?' said the okl lady, softly. 'I
am a Dangerfield, and yon were kind to my
dear son.'

Not any assistance, thank yon.'

You are very poor, I am certain.'

And awfully proud, I am certain, too,' he
added, with his easy, natural laugh returning
to him. ' I shall be in full work next week.'

Concerning Samuel Challis — whom I am
very anxious to discover also,' said the old
lady, ' can you tell me where he is ?'

No,' answered Daniel, moodily.

Has he not been heard of?'

No,' replied Overdown ; ' I have a hope he
is dead. To be living, is to be a shadow of
anything that is human, or he would have come
to us before. I said a little while ago that
Aggie Challis was happy ; I should have said as
happy as the memory of this bad fellow will
allow her to be.'

It might be possible to trace him ; he maybe
starving,' she said ; ' a little help even at this
late hour might be of service to him.'

Don't think of it,' said Daniel OverdoTVTi,
sternly.

The interview was at an end just in time.
Mrs. Dangerfield had exhausted her vocabulary
of inquiry at the same moment as a brass band
was heard braying down the street, and innumerable
voices yelling and whooping in one
tremendous chorus. It was a whirlwind of
sound filling that hitherto deserted thoroughfare,
and the old lady turned pale, and sat down
again in her chap*.

Don't be afraid,' said Daniel, ' it's only a befriends
who have called to take me for a walk.
Rough-handed, honest Birmingham folk, whom
I am glad to speak up and out for; a Kettle
noisy, perhaps, but then it's our policy to make
a noise just nov.'

You seem to like this excitement.'

Yes, it sharpens up a fellow. It keeps him,'
and here a shade passed over his face again,
from brooding too much over his own stupid
sorrows. Good-night,' he added, ' I am going
to step into the street, and draw this door
after me. When we are all gone, it will be safer

for you to retire ; and, please, make sure the
door is fastened, for the cats in this street
are legion and full of curiosity. Good-night ;
my love to Aggie. Please tell her I had her
note this morning."

They correspond, then ! thought Mrs. Danger-field,
as she returned his good-night, and he
passed into the street, where the air rang with
acclamations at the sight of him, and all Bedlam
for a while seemed loose and roaring its hardest
in that muddy thoroughfare without. Five
minutes elapsed before the cheering was over,
and the motley procession had moved on, with
its band clashing and braying in advance, and
then Mrs. Dangerfield peered from the door, and
made preparations for her own exit.

She had left a ten-pound note on the mantelpiece
of the little room ; it was in defiance of
Daniel Overdown's pride ; but she was sure that
there was great privation in this home in
Prosser Street. She had written in pencil on it,
For anyone in distress through the strike,' asher
excuse — as an excuse that even this eccentric
man might accept after she had gone.

She closed the door, and flitted away down
the street to her cab. Half-an-hour afterwards,
this woman, restless and indefatigable, was
travelling by train to Warwick.

CHAPTER IV.

AN EARLY VISIT.

The Reverend Edwin Fayre, vicar of Grayling,
ill Warwickshire, was fond of gardening in
those leisure moments which the duties of his
profession allowed. It was his one hobby,
which helped possibly to keep him in health,
though it had not done anything to the widening
of his narrow chest, or to the brightening of
a complexion which neither country air nor
exercise could change from its invariable aspect
of tanned leather. He was a great gardener in
his way, and his garden was worth a visit in the
summer-time, when it was bright with every
flower which love, care, or money could place
there. Amateur gardeners who mean business
are early-risers, as a rule ; and My. Fayre was

generally the first of the household ash at the
vicarage, setting an example to the gardener
himself, who came across the fields to his work,
and let himself in by a door in the back wall.
The garden was not at its best in that autumn
morning following old Mrs. Dangerfield's flying
visit to Birmingham; the early morning had
been cold, the fancy work of the season was
over ; the hard work of pruning, slipping, storing,
and transplanting had begun ; but Mr.
Fayre was early at his labours, keeping his
servant well up to the mark, and getting his
money's worth out of him, like a practical man
as he was.

It was striking seven when the vicar was
surprised by a carriage and pair stopping at
his front gates. The vicarage stood in its
own grounds, and the vicar from the distance
could see his gates opened by a footman, to
allow of the ingress of a thin old lady, who
came along the broad path towards the house ;
and then catching sight of the clergyman, ina
very clerical straw hat, in the distance,
she crossed a grass plot, and struck into another

path between a high box-edging which
led round to the back of the garden, where Mr.
Fayre had been at work till distracted by her
early call.

He was wanted in a hurry, he was sure ; and
he turned down the sleeves of his black
coat by way of preliminary adjustment to his
toilette, and went some steps towards the lady
who had come in search of him. When they
were face to face, he raised his straw hat
and regarded his visitor with a grave and inquiring
stare.

'Mr. Fayre, I believe V said she.

Mr. Fayre bowed. He was a man of few
words, out of his pulpit; and, in or out, he had
never a great deal of breath to spare.

'My name is Dangerfield, of Overcome
Park.'

Mr. Faja-e bowed again.

The name is familiar to you, I thinks

Yes, it was familiar to him. In what way
could he be of service to Mrs. Dangerfield ?

Familiar as a neighbour in these latter days,
perhaps ; but I don't mean that,' she added, her

teen grey eyes watching the effect of her remarks
upon her Listener.

I remember the name of Dangerfield very well
indeed,' said Mr. Fayre, not disposed to be too
explicit at first sight.

Yes, I have no doubt of it,' remarked the
old lady, sadly ; then she sat down on a
rustic seat that was close at hand, and looked
up at his hard features very closely and
critically.

I am tired. I have been travelling a great
deal lately,' she said, as if by way of apology.
^ I have been anxious to find Miss Chalhs, who,
it appears, is hidden in yom' house, after all.'

" Hidden " is not exactly the term,' said
Mr. Fayre, drily ; ' but Miss Chalhs certainly
honours my small establishment nth her presence.'


'In what capacity?' asked Mrs. Danger-field.


Mr. Fayre seemed disinclined to reply to this
question, suddenly and somewhat sharply put —
at all events he was some time in answering
the inquiry.

I cannot say we have given it a name,' he
said at last.

Housekeeper V

Miss Chalhs looks after the household, and
keeps the keys, but no — she is not the housekeeper,'
replied Mr. Fayre.

Companion to your daughter, perhaps V

My daughter is very much attached to her
you may say companion, if you please he
said.

You will pardon me, Mr. Fayre,' said the old
lady, very haughtily, ' but I came to hear what
you had to say, not to leap at conclusions for
myself.'

Mr. Fayre became rigid after this reproof.
His face and figure seemed cut out of wood
immediately.

*You will pardon me, Mrs. Dangei*field, but
J cannot recognise your right to question meat
all.'

Do you know in what position I stand as regards
that girir

Neither as a friend nor philanthropist, certainly,'
he said.

How can you tell V

The friendship or the philanthropy comes palate
to be of service to Miss Challis,' said the
vicar, still more coldly ; ' years ago it was refused
when asked for.'

Refused by my daughter-in-law.'

By yourself.'

Never, sir !' exclaimed the old lady, warmly.

I wrote to you.'

I was in a lunatic asylum,' was the cool
reply ; ' the letter went to the trustees of my
estate — not to me.'

It is of no consequence now,' remarked
the vicar ; ' still,' after a pause, ' I am glad it
was not pride or indifference which kept you
silent.'

You are glad I was out of my mind — thank
you,' said Mrs. Dangerfield.

'1 did not say that,' replied the minister,,
formally ; ' you misunderstand me very much.'

No, Mr. Fayre, I make you out pretty well,'
she answered, * and 1 hope some day we shall
be better friends. I think we shall.'

Mr. Fayre did not see it ; but, then, he was

looking miles away, over the black feathers in
the lady's bonnet.

And now she added, ' I have driven
seven miles to see Agnes Challis. Where is
she?'

She is here to answer for herself,' he said,
pointing to the open French window of a room
on the lower floor where a tall graceful girl was
standing, shading her eyes from the snn, and
looking in their direction. Another moment and
she was coming towards them.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : Fainted BY DUNCAN MACDONALD, BLENHEIM HOUSE

I

^

3 0112 084219465

-"^ms^^

ie»taS>£

jim

■-f^.

1^

^CJ<'

\M:xim

tits-;•*»'" "^.

L I B R.ARY

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

8Z3
KSGZm

Y.2.

BY

F. W. ROBINSON

AUTHOR OF

GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY,
^'NO CHURCH,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. n.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

^'

%-

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

BOOK THE THIRD.

BOOK THE THIRD.

THE MISTRESS OF ILVERCOMBE.

(CdXTIXCKD.)

VOL. II.

CHAPTER y.

LOVE OR REMORSE.

Mrs. Dangerfield the elder was not a woman
of any great degree of nerve ; there was a
manifest weakness about her for which her past
malady, or her natural constitution, was accountable.
She clasped her thin hands together —
they were unloved and une welled — and gave
vent to a low, long moan that directed the
clergyman's attention to lier anew. Mr. Fayre
saw that she was very pale, and he said, cautiously,
almost sternly,

b2

You will say nothing to distress her feelings ;
yon will remember that the past can only bring
harm to her.'

I am here to do good, not harm,' she murmured.


You can do good by your silence,' he
replied.

Mrs. Dangerfield may have heard this, but it
was doubtful. She was sitting with her hands
locked together, and her earnest gaze directed
towards, the tall young woman coming slowly
towards her. This was the child of her dead
son — under any circumstances, Paul's child —
and she saw her now for the first time in her
life. It was like a vision — a revelation from
that lost world to which he had departed. He
had left word for this girl to be sought after,
cared for, redeemed ; and six years had gone
by, and other hands and hearts had saved her.
She had had no share in it.

Agnes,' said Mr. Fayre, by way of warning
as well as introduction, ' this is Mrs. Dangerfield,
a neighbour of ours.'

Who is anxious to make your acquaintance.

Miss Challis, if yon Avill allow me,' the old lady
added, with a strange humility.

Agnes Challis looked surprised and even embarrassed
for an instant, then she took the lady's
extended hands — both of which had been proffered
with an eagerness that was remarkable —
and pressed them in her own. Both women
gazed earnestly at each other, endeavouring,
perhaps, to read a story in each other's eyes.

I am glad to see you,' Agnes Challis said.

Thank you for saying so,' was the quick
answer.

I have been expecting you — almost,' added
Aggie, as she sat down by the old lady's side,
and regarded her once more with grave attention.


Mr. Fayre hesitated whether to walk away,
or to remain an attentive listener, deciding at
last that it would be better to leave the ladies
to themselves. When he had turned back towards
the house, Mrs. Dangerfield said,

Why have you been expecting me, child V

I heard you were at Overcome,' was the
reply. ' I thought the news might reach you

in some way that I was at Mr. Fayre's, and that
curiosity might prompt you to see what I was
like.'

Aggie spoke plainly and frankly ; there was
no further embarrassment or hesitation evident ;
the bright, hazel eyes looked into the dim greys
unflinchingly.

I did not hear of you until yesterday. In
London I was told that you Avere in Birmingham,
and I went there in search of you,' said
Mrs. Dangerfield.

Seeing Daniel V Agnes said quickly.

Yes, who informed me you were close at
home, after all.'

He is well V she asked.

Quite well,' replied the other ; ' he gave me
your address. A line from you,' she added,
half-reprovingly, ' would have saved me a very
long journey ; but you did not ^vi'ite.'

Write !' cried Aggie, and there was a faint
ring of scorn in her reply ; ' I dared not take
the liberty to trouble you with the fact of my
existence.'

Old ]airs. Dangerfield reflected upon these

words for a while ; then she laid her hand on
Aggie's, and said,

You thought curiosity would lead me to find
you out some day, you said a moment since V

'Yes.'

Not affection V she asked, almost nervously.

No, madam,' replied Aggie, slowly ; ' I have
not been taught to look for affection from the
relatives of my father. You are the first of
them to discover me.'

After some three-and-twenty years,' said
Mrs. Dangerfield. 'Yes, it must seem a long-neglect
to you ; but, my poor child, you do not
know the world.'

Oh, yes, I do,' was the ready answer.

You do not know the whole history of *your
poor father's life — of you' mother's— and of how
the world we were speaking of just now judges
such a story as this.'

The graceful girl by the old lady's side sat
back a little from the speaker, and drew herself
up proudly and defiantly.

Mrs. Dangerfield, it is you who do not know
the story,' she cried ; ' it is your great, grand

friends who have not guessed it, or, guessing at
it, have done me a terrible injustice.'

I do not understand you,' murmured the old
lady.

It is as well you should not,' replied Aggie,
for my father was your son, and his memory is
a disgrace to me.'

No, no, don't say that,' entreated the other.
After all, your father loved you very much ;
he was coming to save you, he was travelling
to help you, when he met his death-blow.'

Who told you that ? Daniel Overdown V

I know it for myself.'

I have tried to believe it,* said Aggie, more
thoughtfully, 'but 1 have never been able to
think well of my father. I look back over long-years
of my childhood, and see only selfishness,
neglect, and crime — a mystery beclouding him,
and rendering him every day more heartless.'

But '

'But he was sorry at the last,' said Aggie,
interrupting her. ' You think so, and Daniel
Overdown, who never tells a lie, was with him
when he died. Well, if such men as my father

are not sony then,' she added, bitterly, ' God
help them.*

Old Mrs. Dangerfield had not been prepared
to meet a young lady so outspoken as this — so
incomprehensible. It had entered into her
imagination to sketch forth an Aggie Challis
for herself — a timid, shrinking creature, on whom
the past pressed heavily, and to whom the accident
of birth was an affliction ; who would be
glad of her patronage and proud of her notice ;
who would learn to love her for her charity —
and the fancy sketch was not realised in anyone
degree. She was not quite certain now
that she liked Agnes Challis, and she was almost
sure she was afraid of her already. This was
the child of a weak, wilful woman who yet had
had the strength to lure her son from his high
estate to hers, and bring about this awful trouble
/i^r child as well as her dear lost son's.

You are very hard,' she said at last ; ' I — I
did not think you would be like this.'

I am not always like this,' replied Agnes,
half apologetically, as she became aware that
the face at which she gazed had fallen into

shadow ; 'but I have been brought up in a hard
school, and you have reminded me of it very
forcibly to-day. For years, Mrs. Dangerfield, I
have been trjang to forget, to settle down, to
be of some little use to the poor and weak and
sinful, whom I think I understand as well as
most people, having spent time amongst them,
and shared experience with them. You know
I have been in prison V

AVh}^ do you speak of that V said Mrs. Dan-garfield,
shuddering.

'It is no use disguising a fact which is so
easily discoverable ; and I thought you knew it.'

Yes,' confessed the old lady, ' I knew it.'

Then you must not expect any great degree
of refinement from me, although my sense of
the disgrace of prison-servitude is not acute.
In gaol I was not hardened, and there I met my
best friend.'

'Mr. Fares

Yes, Mr. Fayrc. He was a poor man then,
but he was a good Christian. When my dear
old Daniel wrote to hin, and told him something
of the truth, he guessed the rest, and

believed in me. Ah I Mrs. Dangerfield, I thank
heaven for my prison; I look back upon it
gratefully.'

But your guilt '

Madam, I am not guilty,' said Aggie, quietly.
If that is any consolation to my father's mother,
pray accept that assurance, and ask no further
questions of me. You have a right to know as
much as that, and no more than that,' she added,
emphatically.

She rose as if to intimate that the interview
was at an end, and the old lady rose with her,
more troubled and perplexed than at the beginning
of their conference. She did not
understand Aggie Challis, and Aggie had not
asked for her friendship or protection; even
appeared to be distrustful of the motive which
had brought her at that early hour to Grayling,
as if her father's relatives were folks to be wary
of, or she was treasuring up as an offence the
silence and neglect of many years.

They went away from the rustic garden-seat,
and along the path, towards the front of the
house, where the old lady's carriage stopped the

way. Aggie Challis took this course, and Mrs.
Dangerfield walked on by her side, as if agreeing
to it, and reconciled to being shown the
direct way off the premises. Whether she felt
weary by long travelling last night and early
rising that morning, was hardly manifest ; but,
before the front gates were reached, she passed
her arm through her companion's for support,
hind the younger woman, thinking that her pace
might be too rapid, slackened it instinctively.

It was not curiosity that brought me here,'
the old lady repeated ; ' will you believe that ?'

Yes, if you wish it,' answered Aggie.

I don't think I should like to lose sight of you
again,' she continued. ' I can't make you out
exactly, but I shall do so, in good time.'

I am not very incomprehensible,' said Aggie,
with a musical little laugh at the old lady's confused
manner of explanation ; ' but you must not
trouble your head about me any more. It is ntDt
worth while, and it will distress you as well as
me.'

The old lady did not respond readily; she
went on in silence again. Presently she said,

You Avill come and see me in a few clays — or
weeks V

I hope you will not ask me,' answered Aggie.

Another pause ; then Mrs. Dangerfield said,

Are yon happy at the vicarage V

Yes ; very happy.'

When yon are unhappy, will you tell me V ■

'Why?'

My dear child,' she cried, impulsively. ' 1
would be glad to help you !'

In any way V was the inquiry.

In any way that would be of benefit to you.'

It is a big, broad promise,' said Aggie, very
thoughtfully ; ' I may remind you of it in good
time.'

When they were close to the carriage, Mrs.
Dangerfield seemed to remember something, and
drew her companion into a side-path.

I have not told you that Miss Dangerfield —
my grand-daughter — is a friend of Miss Fayre's,
and may be a visitor at this house presently.'

Mr. Fayi'e has prepared me for her coming
Does Miss Fayre know '

Nothing.'

It is possible that the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field
may accompany her daughter into Warwickshire.
Shall I write and tell them '

Please — no,' said Aggie, interrupting her. ' I
am not afraid to meet them all. I often think it
would be best we should meet.'
• ' Young Mrs. Dangerfield is very proud.'

Poor woman !' said Aggie Challis, quietly.

The old lady glanced again curiously and
nervously at her companion, before they retraced
their steps towards the carriage.

There would be no occasion to make yourself
known, for that matter said Mrs. Dangerfield ;
the name of Challis is unfamiliar to Estelle.'

Have you come to advise me to keep silence,
for my shame's sake V asked Agnes.

No,' answered the old lady ; ' the idea has
just occurred to me.'

I have thought of this meeting longer than
yourself, then V said Aggie Challis. ' My good
friend has thought for me, too ; and we are prepared
to keep our own secret, or to betray it,
according to circumstances that may arise.'

What circumstances V

Miss Challis did not answer. They were close
1o the gate again and the footman, chilled to the
marrow by his long attendance in the open-air,
once more opened the carnage door for his mistress.
Once more old Mrs. Dangertield turned,
and the footman closed the door, and swore
softly to himself.

Before I go — another question, Miss Challis.'
'What is that r

• Your brother — have you heard from him V
Ah ! poor Sam ! — no.'

The tears came readily to the soft eyes, and
the old lady saw them.

He may want a friend sooner than yourself —
he may want money, even.'

Aggie shuddered. Yes, he might want money,
.certainly.

It is kind of you to think of him,' she said ;
let me thank you in my brother's name.'

There was no excess of gratitude for Mrs.
Danger-field's offer of pecuniary support — a listener
might have thought that it had been even
coldly received, as one takes a half-meant compliment
from a half-hearted acquaintance. Even

Mrs. Dangerfield was not satisfied — the repellant
manner, which in Aggie Chalhs had betrayed itself
more than once dm^ng the interview, seemed
visible again, to check any warmer feeling which
the woman who had come back to the world
might have felt disposed to show. There was
one more inquiring glance towards her, and this
time Mrs. Dangerfield turned to her carriage in
real earnest.

Good-day,' she said, when she was in the
carriage.

Good-day,' said Aggie, in response, as the carriage
was whirled away, and the withered face,
with an expression of regret or disappointment
on it, was turned from her.

The young woman was still standing at the
gates when the heavy, precise tread of Mr. Fap*^
warned her of the clergyman's approach.

Well, Agnes,' he said, gravely ; ' has she
tempted you to leave us V

No.'

You are not pleased with her coming ?'

Scarcely.'

She comes as a friend?'

Or as a spy,' answered Aggie ; ^ I can scarcely
tell which.'

Is it worth while troubling your mind about
it?' asked the minister. 'Is the past worth
dwelling upon — with you, brave and strong, and
far away from it T

It is nearer to me to-day again.'

Indeed !'

I'm thinking of it now— and of that woman's
share in it. Ah, kind friend ! — if I had dared
to ask one question of her !'

What question V

Whether it was grief for her son's loss, or
remorse for my mother's wrongs, that drove her
mad six years ago V

Come, Agnes — you must not brood on this
again.'

I think it was remorse,' added Aggie Challis
thoughtfully.

VOL. ir.

CHAPTER YI.

A MOTHER Aroused.

The quiet life of the Honor-able Mrs. Danger-field
was not in any degree greatly disturbed
till the winter of that year, and then the beginning
g of a new phase in her life broke down the
guard over herself suddenly and remarkably.
She had lost faith in human kind when she was
a young woman, and hope and charity had gone
out of her heart about the same time, and left
her cold and passionless, despite all the religion
with which she believed she was imbued. In
her own estimation, she was a woman who had
settled down for good — whom the pomps and
vanities, and trials and temptations, of a-wicked

world were never likely to affect again — and it
was at this self-satisfied period of her well-conducted
existence that the shock came.

Estelle had been away from home a month.
The invitation to spend a few weeks with Isabella
Fayre, her old schoolfellow, had been
finally accepted, and the Honourable Mrs. Dan-garfield
had acquiesced in the arrangement
with an affectation of indifference that threw
no particular obstacles in the way.

Estelle might go, if she cared to leave her
mother ; Estelle^s life was dull and depressed ;
.she would find change in Warwickshire, and
the change would do her good, young Mrs.
Dangerfield trusted. Estelle had not seemed
happy of late days; she had grown more
thoughtful and reserved than usual ; the mother
had hoped that close attendance on week-days
and Sundays to her devotions had rendered her
seriously disposed, until Estelle had intimated
one day that the Reverend Edward Smoothly's
sermons were all dreadfully alike, and wearisomely
monotonous, and thus shocked and distressed
her mother by her candour. Estelle and

cher

maid went away to Warwickshire in the
beginning of November, and Lord Redclove,
calKng upon his daughter Frances a few weeks
afterwards, expressed his extreme please at
finding his granddaughter free from the maternal
care. Lord Redclove was in good spirits
that day — he was five years and a half older,
but he was five years and a half saunter, than
when Daniel Overdown found him nursing his
gout in his defunct son-in-law's study.

Free from gout. Lord Redclove was always
jaunty, we may observe ; he was a dapper being*
who treated himself respectfully, and made the
best of his age, and called in all the appliances
of art to render him, in appearance, a younger
man than he was — a very singular mortal this,
the reader will see, although there are a catlike
him hiding in odd corners. On the particular
day to which we call attention, his lordship
was excessively jaunty — his staid daughter
thought him a flippant father even as he sat
back in his chair, in his Avhite ulster coat, with a
glossy new hat in one neatly-gloved hand, and
a gold-headed cane in the other.

I am very glad that Estelle has got out of
the house for a few weeks, Frances. She was
being hipped to death — upon my soul she was,'
he said.

His daughter shivered at her father's profanity,
but did not comment upon it. Comment on
her sire's peculiarities was an experiment which
she had given up long ago — it had turned out
a terrible failure, and provoked his lordship into
scoffing most unseemly at all which was sacred
in her eyes, and somewhat laughable in his.

You forget that Estelle has left me alone.'

Go after her,' said her father, bluntly, ' pack
up and take the train for Warwickshire, too —
do your duty to that grim old girl from the
madhouse, and see that the money is kept in
the family. A little life and energy for once,
Frances, would not be amiss even in a saint like
yourself.'

I have no wish to leave town.'

Au contraire, I have no ^\dsh to stop in it,'
said the father. ' I am going to Brighton. tomorrow
— will you come to Brighton V

It was not a warm invitation — he did not

crave for his daughter's company at Brighton —
and he was far from disappointed when the
widow said, quietly,

No, thank you.'

You miss Estelle, then V he said.

Yes, I miss her]; but if she is happy away
from me I am not likely to complain.'

To be sure not. AVhat the deal — what the
deuce, I mean — have you to complain about V
he cried. ' The child wants change of scene,
fresh air and fresh faces — everybody does — I do ;
so don't worry her with any doleful and longwinded
epistles. You can't imagine how aggravating
they are to anyone enjoying a holiday.
Leave her to herself, she is in good hands.
Fayre is a clergyman and a gentleman — the
name is familiar to me, too, but I can't think
how — and Estelle writes home in good spirits,
you say.'

In very good spirits.'

Well, leave her in them for a change, poor
child.'

Lord Redclove went away laughing at his not
too complimentary advice, and his daughter

dressed for church immediately afterwards.
Ashen she rem-ned, there was a letter from Estelle
awaiting her, but she did not read it till
late in the evening. She knew what the letter
would contain ; glowing comments upon the
writer's happiness, her new friends, her rides,
and drives, and walks — about everything save
her regrets at being absent from home — an outlook
at her bright life in the country, but never
a glance at the silent mother in her grand and
lonely house in town. And Estelle had been
away four weeks.

When she opened the letter, however, a
piece of neAvs exploded at her from the elegant
spider-like scrawl which the finishing governess
had given her daughter — and there was less
serenity in the breast of the Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield than she had known for years. She
did not sleep that night, and early next morning,
before her father was out of bed, she had surprised
his town mansion by a visit. Half-an-hour
afterwards Lord Redclove, in an elaborate
dressing-gown, shuffled into the room A^dth a
wild stare upon his countenance. Frances, the

picture of misery, was sitting opposite her
nephew Hamilton, just as he had expected to
find her. Only calamity could have brought
Frances to his house at that early hour. Somebody
was dead, perhaps.

'Now, if anything is the matter, Frances,'
he said, as he entered, ' break it to me gently,
for God's sake. I don't want to be shattered
to pieces by anything terrible and uncomfortable
being blurted out incautiously. What
is it?'

Read that,' said his daughter, putting Estelle's
letter into his hand.

Ahem ! — yes — but really, Frances, I cannot
see the absolute necessity of reading all this,'
he said, glancing' ruefully at the closely-written
epistle, ' my glasses are upstairs, too,
and — Hamilton, will you do me the favour
to tell me, in your own prudent way, what has
happened to disturb your cousin in this
fashion?'

One paragraph in Estelle's letter will explain
it all,' said Hamilton, coolly.

Thank Heaven. Proceed,' said his lordship,

dropping carefully into an easy chair by the
fire, and clasping his delicate hands round one
knee, 'it is not particularly distressing, I presume.'


Only to me,' said the Honourable Mrs. Dan-garfield,
bitterly.

My dear child, you take the afiaii's of life in
too grave a spirit,' said Lord Redclove, ' pray
allow Hamilton to proceed. I think when he
has thrown some light upon the business which
has dragged me from my rest ' — it was ten
a.m. by the great bronze clock on the mantelpiece
— ' I shall be able to offer an opinion that
may be of material service to you.'

The daughter regarded her father ahiiost
scornfully, but did not hazard a reply. With an
impatient hand she signed to Hamilton to proceed.


*Miss Fayre's companion,' began Hamilton,
quoting from the letter in his hand, ' has improved
vastly on further acquaintance — I like her
very much now — I love her quite as well as
Bella Fayre — she is much kinder and more
thoughtful than my light-hearted schoolfellow

she Avis upon me wonderfully — she '

'Excuse me, Hamilton — Frances said Lord
Redclove, in mild bewilderment, 'but who is
Miss Fayre's companion T

'It is the first time that Estelle has alluded
to her,' said the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field.


'Ah, that is like a woman. I beg pardon
for stopping you, Hamilton,' said his lordship,
'there's not a great deal more of it, I
suppose V

Not. a great deal more, my lord,' said Hamilton,
drily.

I don't see anything remarkably exciting in
the communication at present,' observed Lord
Redclove — ' pray proceed.'

Hamilton continued his reading, thus adjured.

" She is odd and strange at times, and says
odd, quaint things ; but you, my dear mamma,
are sure to like her. When Bella pays me her
return visit in town, I should like Aggie Challis
to come with her. She is everybody's favourite
in AVarwickshire — she will be yours in London,
I feel certain." '

Lord Redclove let go his knee suddenly, and
brought his foot amongst the fire-irons, but his
his face betrayed no very deep concern.

You hear — you understand,' said his daughter,
as she took from Hamilton's hands the letter
which he had re-folded — * you see the miserable
complication of all this V

'There are more Challises than one in the
world, Frances,' he said, slowly; ' I do not quite
comprehend why you should associate this companion
with '

Ask Hamilton what he thinks,' cried Frances.

My dears said Lord Redclove, in grave
reproof, ' I am telling you what / think, if you
will kindly give me your attention for a
moment.'

But the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield was not
disposed to wait for her father's opinion on the
subject.

It is clear enough,' said Frances, speaking
very rapidly, ' Hamilton met Mr. Faire in Liverpool
; he was chaplain of the gaol where the
girl Agnes Challis was imprisoned for two
years — he has been always interested in her —

what doubt can there be that this girl is the
same

Ah ! yes. I comprehend now. Take it
coolly, Frances — don't make a noise. The
whole affair is easily arranged.'

I don't see how,' said the Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield, despairingly.

This Agnes Challis has not related the story
of her parentage — of her life — to your daughter,
it is evident. She is ashamed of it, and she is
discreet. Telegraph to Estelle to return home
immediately.'

Yes, yes ; I have thought of that,' cried the
mother, ' but those two have met. At any moment
Estelle may learn of her fathers dishonour,
and I have kept his memory so free from
reproach. Lie may learn the history of all this
misery and crime at any moment.'

Therefore, telegraph at once,' said her father.

'Estelle will wonder what has happened —
they will talk at the vicarage — take offence,
perhaps— the whole crisis may be precipitated.
This Mr. Fayre — who nest have soon the position
from the first — may be the very man to

disclose the truth — may be even anxious to
disclose it.'

Mr. Fayi-e has acted like a fool, or a scamp,'
said Lord Redclove ; ' as a man of the world,
he might have known better ; as a minister, he
—he '

Never mind Mr. Fayre just now,' said his
daughter, impatiently ; ' how can I get Estelle
away from his house without a scene V

Go down and fetch her. Hamilton will accompany
you as escort, I am sm*e — he has
always more time on his hands than he knows
what to do with — take her by surprise, and
whisk her off to her grandmother's, by way of
an excuse. The old woman will be glad to see
you, and you can get back to town as soon as
you like, and cut the acquaintance of those
infernal Faja^es for ever afterwards. As for
exciting yourself about it,' added her father, ' I
don't see the policy.'

I thought if you had gone ^vith me — Estelle
is fond of you — she might have fancied '

*My dear, I am going to Brighton this afternoon,'
said Lord Redclove ; ' I dine with Lord

Miniver there. I have an important appointment
for tomorrow — it is absolutely impossible
that I shall be disengaged for a moment until
the middle of next week. I cannot run about
the country in this way, but Hamilton T\dll be
pleased to be of service.'

Hamilton will not,' said Mrs. Danger-field,
sadly.

Eh — what — why not V x\nd Lord Redclove
looked from his distressed daughter to the
moody countenance of the young man opposite.

It is not Hamilton's business, and he will not
care for a journey so purposeless to him.'

Hamilton can speak for himself,' said Lord
Redclove, severely ; ' he has a pretty, fair habit
of doing so at times.'

I have one or two engagements for this
week,' said Hamilton, unmoved by these comments
; ' and, candidly, I have no great wish to
break them, and run down to Warwickshire instead
; but, if my cousin requires my services,
they are at her disposal.'

There, Hamilton says he'll go ; what more
do you want V said his lordship, with alacrity.

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield looked very
strangely and mournfully at Hamilton, and Lord
Eedclove glanced from one to another with a
jackdaw-like sharpness, as if a new light were
dawning upon him. He was very silent, however,
and he turned to the fire, and warmed his
hands carefully, back and front.

I will go willingly — cheerfully — if you wish
it,' Hamilton said, with more earnestness.

*I shall be obliged, if you will,' replied
Frances. ' I do not feel strong-minded enough
to go alone. And if — if — you could spare the
time, it will be one more favour conferred,
Hamilton, for which I shall be grateful.'

I will go when you wish, Frances.'

To-day — this afternoon V

Yes. I will call for you in two hours' time.'

Thank you.'

Thus it was an-angel, and the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield hastened to her own home
to make the necessary preparations for her
journey.

Lord Redclove sat and studied his nephew
for awhile from under his dyed eyebrows.

Why didn't you care to escort Frances to
Warwickshire V he asked.

I don't Eke Warwickshire.'

Or Frances V

I am very fond of Frances.'

And of Frances' daughter — Estelle V

Hamilton's face darkened. He was not partial
to being cross-examined, and his uncle's manner
was not pleasant or gracious. It had altered of
late days to him, he fancied —-just as he had
altered to his uncle, perhaps. Well — well —
people cannot help their hearts changing, hardening,
or softening, and he was the last individual
to be surprised at the mutation. He
was only surprised at his uncle's leading questions,
and he elevated his eyebrows — not dyed
by way of silent protest against them. Still
he answered his uncle at once.

'No, my lord, not fond of Estelle in any
remarkable degree.'

So Frances informed me, some months back.'

'Indeed!'

She wishes you had been, though. Is not
that it?'

1 don't know — I cannot say that,' replied
Hamilton.

You might have done worse said Lord Red-clove,
' than make love to Estelle Danger-field.
She will have all her mother's money ; she is a
clever and agreeable girl. I should like to see
you settled in life, and settled well.'

Thank you very Idndly,' said his nephew, a
trifle too gratefully ; ' but I am not looking for
an excellent match, and I hardly like the idea of
my friends looking out for me.'

'Who is looking out?' asked the nobleman,
sharply.

No one, I hope answered Hamilton.

I simply said you might do worse than marry
my grand daughter,' said his uncle ; ' but I
would not take the liberty of advising you on a
matter so delicate, and one on which you are so
eminently qualified to judge for yourself he
added, with no small amount of mock politeness.

I shall certainly judge for myself,' said
Hamilton.

And Avill judge well, and in good time said
Lord Redclove, more genially ; * for you are a

VOL. II. D

vshrewcl fellow in your way, a man of the world,
and admirably unromantic.'
I shall never marry for love.'

Love is a delusion, Hamilton ; a complete
mirage.'

'And I shall never marry for money,' his
nephew added.

Then what the devil Avill you marry for V
asked the uncle.

Position I shall not care about ; Parliamentary
distinction is out of my line,' continued
Hamilton, in the same listless fashion. * I have
as little ambition in my nature as affection.'

You haven't much affection, certainly,' observed
his uncle, ' but ambition will come as you
grow older. At least, I hope to see you a
different man, and in a different sphere,' he
added, after a pause.

Hamilton's dark eyes were fixed upon his
uncle, who turned away his head somewhat
beneath the gaze bestowed upon him. Lord
Redclove had a reason for talking thus, for
hinting thus, and he saw that Hamilton saw it
also. He did not pin*sue the conversation ; he

had no desire to bore his nephew to death. He
dished discussion, and he was going to Brighton.

It was strange that the subject of Agnes
Chalks was not mentioned by either of these
men again, that Lord Redclove left his nephew
without a word as to the unlooked-for advent
of this young woman upon the scene once more.
He had no instructions to offer Hamilton now ;
he imagined — very vainly in this instance — that
his daughter understood the position, and would
act for herself wisely. He had done with the
Challises completely; they had had their chances
offered them some years ago, and had refused,
as he thought, all offers of support ; and there
was an end of any interest in their career.

He was restless, however — restless upon
another subject, it seemed'. Before he went
back to his dressing-room, he said,

May I ask one question, Hamilton, without
giving you offence V

Certainly,' answered Hamilton.

Did not Frances request you some little while
ago not to call at her house too frequently V

'Yes.'

d2

It was very foolish of her. It was very
weak,' said Lord Redclove, tetchily ; ' it was
letting you see too clearly that she had grave
anxieties about Estelle, and fearful of your
engaging her affections without your own being-enlisted
in return. It was lowering Estelle's
character, and making you gainer than you are.'

Very likely,' was the quiet response.

Hamilton had answered the one question
which his uncle had put to him ; to the after
comments of his relative he did not care to
respond. He was a reticent being, whom it
had been always difficult to draw out or to
understand. Time was rendering him sullen,
and eccentric, too, his uncle thought ; and that
he did not improve was fairly evident.

However, he was amiable enough to escort
his first cousin the widow to Grayling. Without
a note of warning, Frances Dangerfield and
Hamilton were close upon the vicarage at eight
in the evening of that day. The lights were
bright within as they approached the house,
and restless figures passed and cast their
shadows on the blinds.

A party,' said Hamilton, looking from the
window of the post-carriage. *This is awkward.
Had we not better postpone om* visit
till the morning V

'No.'

There is no occasion for a scene, for anything
dramatic,' he observed.

Oh ! Hamilton, yon might have spared me
that taint. My drama was ended long ago,'
she answered, * and my only wish is to be at
peace with the world and — Estelle.'

Still this is a sm-prise for them within — a
coup? de titre! said Hamilton ; ' and the morning
would be preferable for an attack on the
enemy's camp.'

She shall not stay another night beneath that
roof,' said Mrs. Dangerfield, firmly. ' I am resolved.'

Very well,' said Hamilton.

He assisted his cousin to alight, and they both
went along the garden-path towards the door
of the vicarage. Before they had reached the
house, the door opened, and two gentlemen
stepped into the keen, frosty air ; the taller one
bareheaded.

You think that she ' Then Mr. Fayre,

for it was he, caught sight of the approaching
visitors, and came with long strides towards
them.

Mrs. Dangerfield,' he said, to that lady's
surprise.

Yes, 1 am Mrs. Dangerfield. Are you Mr.
Fayre V

Yes, madam.'

You appear to expect me !'

To be sure,' was the reply. ' You received
my telegram this afternoon, I hope V

Telegram — what telegram ? I have received
no Oh ! sir, is anything the matter?
Has anything happened to — to Estelle 1'
cried the mother.

I am very sony to say " yes," ' answered
the clergyman.

CHAPTER Vll.

EXPLANATION.

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield was not
strong enough for this sudden blow. She had
arrived at Praying smarting under a sense of
injury, of personal slight, that had wholly disturbed
the apathy of which she was proud , and
which she was even inclined to consider as a
Christian serenity of the very best quality. She
had prepared herself for a withering comment
on Mr. Fayre's behaviour ; she had rehearsed
the most cutting speeches and the most indignant
reproaches, all the way from the railway
station at Haddington to Warwick, and hero at
the onset was she met by news which utterly
prostrated her. Mrs. Dangerfield fainted away.

She remembered no more. The vicarage A^dth
its hghtecl windows, the frost and snow of the
night, the figures about her all vanished suddenly,
and when she opened her eyes again she
was lying on a couch in a neatly furnished
drawing-room with a little dark-eyed, dark-haired
young lady bending over her, and a
portly man of fifty sitting by her side with his
hand upon her pulse.

She will do now, Miss Fayre,' she heard the
doctor say, ' she is coming round,' and then she
came round very slowly, and the hard fact by
which she had been overwhelmed came round
also with her consciousness. A glass of cold
brandy and water was held to her lips ; she
di-rank a little of the liquid, and then said, in a
weak voice,

Where is Estelle ? Tell me about her.'

There is no great cause for alarm now,' said
the doctor; 'your daughter will be quite herself
in a few days — with care, and without imbue
excitement,' he added, by way of caution to the
mother.

'Tell me what has happened to her?' asked

Mrs. Dangerfield, sitting up, ' I am quite prepared.'


Miss Fayre, I will leave the news for yon to
communicate,' said the doctor, bowing low to
the ladies before he took his departure. When
he had gone, Mrs. Dangerfield wished that she
had asked him to stay, wished that she had
heard all the news from his lips, rather than
from the daughter of the man who had so cruelly
deceived her. She turned eagerly to Bella
Fayre, however, and the bright little brunette,
facing her, dashed immediately into explanation,
rattling away at a great pace, as if in a hurry
to get through her task as speedily as possible.

You see it was a skating-party — on the
river, across the fields at the back here, Mrs.
Dangerfield,' galloped on Miss Fayre, * we have
been there day after day. Oh ! ever since the
frost set in and the ice was safe. There was a
thaw last night, but it froze again this morning,
and we had not thought of any difference in
the ice, until it gave way suddenly, where poor
Estelle was skating, and lot her through into
the water.'

Merciful heaven !'

It's all right now — think, to begin ^vith^
please, Mrs. Dangerfield, that it's all right now.
But I shall never forget it,' cried the girl, her
dark eyes dilating and her colour deepening on
her cheeks, ' for Estelle sank twice, screaming
for the help we could not give her — that no one
would risk his life to offer her, though there
were five-and-twenty people, at least, the gi-eat
big cowards. I was one of that lot — I could
not move hand or foot — I could only cry and
scream and rave like a little lunatic — scream the
louder every time she clung to the ice, which
broke away bit by bit in her poor hands. But,'
seeing Mrs. Dangerfield's colour desert her
again, ' don't forget she's all right now, please.
She. was saved by Aggie Challis — our brave
Aggie. When no one else had an ounce of
courage in them, she dashed across the ice, and
went in with her, too. Oh ! such another crash,,
but she held her up and clutched at the ice, and
when it broke she followed it up again, and
never let go of Estelle till the help came
for which we were all praying, shouting, and

screaming. Some men brought ropes at last,
and they were saved — both saved, thank God !^
Bella Fayre was excited at her own description,
and clapped her hands loudly at the conclusion
of her narrative. The doctor had hardly
been discreet in leaving so high pressure
a young woman as this was to break the
news to the mother, but Mrs. Dangerfield
bore the details, thus energetically and even
dramatically given, with tolerable composure,,
and only said, meekly,

Yes, yes, thank God for all His mercy.'
Then she seemed to remember that this was

Mr. Fayre's daughter, and that to Mr. Fayre she
might be cold and distant presently, for she
added, in a very different tone,

Where is my child!'

In her room,' was the reply. * She is a
little feverish ; she has not got over the shock
yet, but she will be better in the morning, Mr
Bolton says.'

She is conscious ?'

Oh, yes, quite conscious.'

I am relieved in mind.'

*But she will talk of it all,' added Bella
Fayre, ' over and over and over again, though
we try our hardest to keep her quiet. It
is only Aggie who can manage her. That
is why I am down here out of the way. I
am a blunderer, a complete nuisance ; I always
was a thoroughly useless young woman,'
she said, with a naive belief in her own helplessness
that a less anxious Listener would have
smiled at.

« Aggie,' repeated Frances Dangerfield, slowly
; ' that, I presume, is Miss Challis, who '

Who saved Estelle's life,' cried Miss Fayre,
impulsively interrupting her. ' She is well and
strong again; she was her own dear strong
self an hour afterwards. You will be glad to
see her, won't you, to thank her for the corn-age
which brought your daughter back to the world.
I'll fetch her at once.'

No, no ; not yet,' said the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield, faintly, like one overpowered
by this rush of eloquence ; * give me time,
please, to think of this more Where is
Hamilton r

Is that the gentleman who came with you
this evening?' inquired Bella.

Frances Dangerfield responded in the affirmative.


He is in papa's study, ^vith papa. Shall I
say you wish to see him T

Yes, please. That is, no — not yet,' replied
the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield, irresolutely ;
I — I must see Estelle first. You are keeping
her from me. Oh ! she is worse than you say, I
am sure of it.' And, full of this new suspicion,
she started to her feet.

She is recovering slowly, Mrs. Dangerfield,'
replied Bella Fayre; * but, pray, remember what
the doctor has just told us. Estelle requires
care, and freedom from excitement. You will
wait a little while, I hope.'

I can be trusted with my own child, Miss
Fayre,' said the jealous mother; 'no one has a
right to keep her from me.'

Certainly not ; Aggie— Miss Challis, that is—
had better break the news to her that you are
here, then,' said Bella, rising and retiring rapidly
from the room.

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield looked as
if she were half-disposed to follow her, half
inclined even to suspect some excuse for longer
delay in the sudden withdrawal of the vicar's
daughter from, her presence. She did not sit
down again after the door had closed upon her,
but paced the room slowly, with her white
hands wrung together, and her thoughtful gaze
directed to the pattern of Mr. Facere's drab carpet.
She was in distress ; she knew not what todo
or how to act ; events seemed marching
upon her too quickly and from too many sides
for her woman's strength to cope with ; Estelle
could not be taken from the vicarage that night,
and she, Estelle's mother, was a woman in the
way there. What a time they were returning
to her, she thought, fretfully ; where was Hamilton?
' Why did Mr. Fayre keep out of her way ?
Ah ! no ; she need not wonder at that ; but why
did not his daughter come down again from the
sick-room, and tell her that Estelle was eager to
see her, to clasp her to her bosom, and to shed
tears of gratitude with her over the mercy that
had been extended to them both.

She paused on the hearth-rug to consider
again the means by which Estelle had been
saved ; she rested her clasped hands on the
mantel-shelf, and looked into the fire for the
rest of the story — how it would continue, and in
what way it would end? and the door opened
noiselessly, and without her knowledge, and
she who had saved Estelle came close to her
ide before she was aware of it.

'Mrs. Danger-field,' said a soft voice, and
the widow looked round quickly, and faced
x\gnes Challis for the first time in her life. Even
then she did not associate the new-comer with
her husband's daughter by another woman ; this
tall, graceful girl, ^vith the fair hair and the soft,
winning eyes, was probably a lady born and
bred, a friend of the Fayres and of Estelle's.
For Estelle had made many new friends in Warwickshire
; her letters home assured her of that
fact ; she had been more full of information concerning
her fresh acquaintances than of solicitude
as to how the mother was getting on in
solitude without her. She had been very
thoughtless, possibly a trifle selfish, as girls will

be now and then, when their hearts are light
and people are making a fuss over them ; and
here was another new denizen of Estelle's new
world. And yet the lady was no new arrival,
she was one of the family ; by her dress and
manner she was at home there.

You will excuse my introducing myself, Mrs.
Dangerfield, as I have left Mrs. Fayre watching
your daughter,' said Aggie, speaking very calmly,
but looking very intently at the visitor. ' I
am Agnes Challis.'

You are Agnes Challis,' was the sIoav echo
back ; and then the two women looked at each
other long and steadily before exchanging another
word.

CHAPTER VIII.

HIS CHILD.

Agnes Challis was the first to break the spell
of a long silence. She had never lost her self-possession
; she had seen that the mother of the
prostrate gil upstairs was less strong than herself,
for all the pride of her position, and the
grandeur and uprightness of her life. The
colour had deepened in the elder woman's face ;
it had seemed to burn itself in there at the first
announcement of Aggie's name, and it did not
die away again. There was no advance to
friendliness exhibited; in the first moments of
their interview, the mother forgot that this was
the young woman who had saved the life of her
child, and remembered only the cruelty of her
VOL. II. E .

own past life, and the bitterness of the present
interview.

« I thought it best to come unannounced
x^gnes said, ' and tell you that Miss Dangerfield
is asleep, and it would not be wise to wake
her.'

I cannot see her, then V said the mother, ina
low, suppressed tone of voice.

When she wakes, she will be very glad to
see you,' said Aggie ; ' she has been talking of
you a great deal, and wondering how long a
time it would take for you to reach her.'

She is worse than Miss Fayre would have
me believe,' cried the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field.
' I know it !'

She has had a great shock to her system, the
doctor says, and that is all.'

She is in danger !'

No, I think not,' was the reply.

Then, why all this precaution,' urged the
mother, ' this fear of seeing my own child V

There is no fear of your seeing her, only of
your waking her from the first sleep she has
had since the accident,' Aggie explained, still

very calmly ; ' let me advise you to be patient.'

You advise me to patience !' murmured Mrs.
Dangerfield, almost scornfully.

She was fretful and restless, and only an ordinary
woman ; perhaps less than one, after all.
Aggie Challis felt the taunt that was conveyed
more by the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield's
manner than by her answer, and the change
was great in her from that instant. She seemed
to grow taller and straighter, and a sudden
rigidity of features betokened that Agnes Chalhs
had a temper of her own, or at least was a
heroine not disposed to swallow complacently
every indignity that might meet her full front,
as extra meek heroines have a fine habit of
doing.

Yes, I advise you, Mrs. Dangerfield/ she
said, in a clear, hard tone of voice. ' You will
excuse the liberty I take, but it is for your
daughter's good as well as your own.'

Well, well, perhaps it is,' replied the widow,
as she sat down again and sighed wearily.

I offer this as an explanation, not as an
apology,' added Aggie, foi' fear that she had

e2.

been misunderstood. ' The doctor has gone, or
I should not have intruded upon your troubles,
madam, even to explain. That could have been
done more gracefully by others in this house,
and would have been more acceptable to you.
Good evening.'

Very upright still, but a shade paler than
when she had entered the room, Agnes Challis
walked towards the door. She had not touched ,
the handle when Mrs. Dangerfield said,

One moment.'

Aggie paused, hesitated, and returned to her
place by the mantelpiece. There was something
in the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield's face
that betokened distress of mind, incertitude,,
pain ; and the younger woman went back to
meet it and to answer it, if necessary.

If I have been rude, forgive me,' said
Frances. 'I am not myself; I have been ill-prepared
for all that has happened to-day.
There has been a great deception practised
upon me, and I have travelled to Grayling to
resent it, and to take Estelle home ; and then
the shock of the bad news has come all at once

like this. I do not wish to hurt your feelings,
Miss ChaUis. I — I — remember with gratitude
that my only child would not be living now
but for your courage and presence of mind, and
I thank you with my whole heart for her rescue.
But ' She came to a full stop, and her listener
said, quickly,

You are about to say that my saving of your
daughter's life does not atone for my presence
here, for my acquaintance with Miss Danger-field,
for becoming almost — I say almost — her
friend. Well, my atonement for that affront to
you may be offered at a time more fitting, and
when I have sufficiently considered the method
of expiation which may be most acceptable to
you. Still ' — there was a little hesitation here
• it was not my wish to know your daughter
that kept me in this house ; and let me assure
you that, from the beginning to the end, she
has been spared the humiliation of blushing for
her sister's existence. Yes, Mrs. Dangerfield,
her sister's,' added Agnes, emphatically — ' and
there is no shrinking from that fact as easily as
sou shrink from mo.'

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield was bewildered
utterly. The speaker's pride was greater
than her own, and its scorn beat down all opposition,
and left her defenceless. She was not
prepared for so sudden an outburst, for this
ready resentment of the first words of disparagement,
of reproach, which had escaped her.
The high-spirited, sharp tongued young woman
before her was a surprise and an incomprehensibility,
and her character was beyond all
fathoming to-night. The elder woman was
strangely humble, too — her own humility amazed
her afterwards, when she had leisure to reflect
upon the interview.

I have intended no offence — for any hasty
word that has escaped me, I am sorry,' murmured
the widow. ' I do not know that you
are in any way to blame, and I did not expect
you would be so quick to answer me.'

I have been brooding upon this for many
years,' was the reply ; ' I thought you would
meet me in this fashion — you, a lady, very unforgiving,
and I, the child of a poor woman
whom your husband Wronged. Still, had you

come to-moiTOW,' she added, ' I should have
spared you a painful interview — spared myself.'

She passed from the room, and there was no
effort made to arrest her progress again. The
Honor-able Mrs. Dangerfield was glad to be
alone, to consider how her own self-esteem had
been crushed, and her forces utterly routed, by
a girl whom a word should have set do^vn, but
whose pride and indignation had defeated
hers.

How long she sat there thinking out her plan
of action, and finding it more complicated than
she had bargained for — nay, discovering it hopelessly
involved by the daughter's illness, and the
kindness shown in the enemy's camp, where
Estelle was — she never knew. Hours or minutes
might have passed before Mr. Fayre and Hamilton
Redclove came into the room, and a servant
was bustling about at a side-table with the tea-equipage.


She noticed that Hamilton was looking Avery
grave, and her fears leaped to the old conclusion
as he advanced.

They are deceiving me, Hamilton,' she said,.

in a quick whisper. ' She is worse than they
would have me believe.'

'No, she is not,' replied Hamilton, almost
bluntly. ' Don't get nervous about it again,
Frances. It's all right.'

But '

'Mr. Fayre wishes to speak to you, I think,'
said Hamilton, interrupting her ; then he walked
away to the mantelpiece, and feigned an
interest in some old Dresden china that was
there.

Your daughter is awake, Mrs. Dangerfield,
and knows you are here,' said Mr. Fayi'e. ' Miss
Challis has broken the news to her with great
gentleness.'

And Estelle f

Is anxious to see you. After tea, if '

I will see her now, please. Don't keep me
from her any longer,' said the feverish mother.

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield was on her
feet, and the clergyman opened the door for
her, and followed her from the room. He led
the way up the broad, old-fashioned stairs to
the chamber where Estelle was lying, pausing

at the door, and pushing it open softly for her.
Frances Dangerfield passed into the room, and
went swiftly to the bed-side, to look down at
her child, and to moan over and kiss her.

My poor, dear Estelle — my own darling,'
she cried, ' why did you come here ? — what a
terrible calamity !'

It might have been, without our Aggie —
that's all,' said Estelle, in a faint voice.

And, as it is, it was only a good ducking,'
said the crisp voice of Bella Fayre from the
fireside. ' Something to laugh at presently,
Estelle, Why, I have had half a dozen hearty
laughs at it already, Mrs. Dangerfield.'

Miss Fayre is easily amused,' remarked the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield, coldly.

Bella has not laughed yet, to my knowledge,'
was the quick response of the daughter ; ' she
has been very kind and attentive. You must
not mind what my friend says in her high spirits
which are put on to keep up mine. For, oh !
I was very frightened, mamma — I seemed so
near death all at once— until a brave girl risked
lier life for mine, and saved me. Bella, where is

Aggie ? — mamma would like to see her immediately,
I am shire.'

I have seen her already, Estelle,' replied the
mother, quickly.

I am glad of that. Is she not kind, and
thoughtful, and gentle ?' she asked, in a lower
voice, ' and so different from the rest of us.'

Estelle, I am getting jealous,' cried Bella.
As if I would not have saved you myself, if my
knees had not knocked together with fright — as
if anybody could not have saved you ! only
Aggie was in a greater hurry than other people.'

Bella laughed again, and Estelle's face brightened
with the music in her laugh, but the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield remained preternaturally
solemn. This turning Estelle's accident
into a jest was not consolatory to the feelings
of the mother, and she was not quick-witted
enough to see the reason for it. She wished
to kneel and thank Heaven for her daughter's
life being spared — she had not calmed down
yet, and there was tragedy before her rather
than comedy. That there should be a humorous
side to the calamity was past the comprehension

of the woman who had travelled many
miles that day to fetch her daughter home.
Miss Fa}T.'e probably meant all for the best, but
Mrs. Dangerfieldwas astonished at her lightness
and frivolity — a minister's daughter, too — astonished,
also, at her want of feeling for the nerves
of the mother, still discomposed and shattered.

I will leave yon two together,' said Bella,
suddenly, awaking to the consciousness that she
was in the way ; 'but Mrs. Dangerfield T\dll
remember that Mr. Bolton hoped Estelle would
be kept quite calm to-night.'

I have not forgotten the warning. Miss
FajTC. Estelle ' — to her daughter — ' I hope
my presence does not excite you.'

'Not at all, mamma; why should it?' answered
Estelle.

Your young friend distrusts me as your
nurse,' she said, severely; 'estimates my self-possession
and my prudence at a very low
value, I fear.'

'To tell you the truth, I haven't thought
about them, Mrs. Dangerfield,' answered Bella,
with unpleasant frankness ; ' you were excited

and nervous downstairs, and, having been warned
to be careful of Estelle, I thought it was as
Avell to warn you with the rest.'

I had only heard the news a minute before,'
said the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield, in the
same severe tone of voice, 'and was naturally
shocked at it — otherwise,* she added, ' 1 am not
an excitable woman, or one accustomed to
meet trouble. I have as strong nerves as most
people, have encountered as much affliction,
and borne my cross without complaint.'

The voice shook a little, although there was
a faint ring of pride in it One can be proud
even of more than a fair share of calamity, and
the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield was disposed
to plume herself on the troubles she had had
and lived down, at a time when life should have
been bright with her. She had even thought
herself above feeling very deeply again, having
faith in heaven, and a belief in a soul that was
above the petty vanities and puny straggling
of this lower world ; and she Alas nettled that
at the first ordinary shock to lier moitahty she
had given the impression to others that she was

a nervous and excitable woman. She had not
kept to her own high standard of repose ; but
then, here was an only daughter in danger, and
time had not been given her to prepare for the
blow. With time before her — time for her
pride to grow strong and herself to seek comfort
in prayer — she would have amazed these
people, who had taken so false an estimate of
her character for philosophy. Poor woman!
she was only deceiving herself, after all, and
this was the beginning of a greater trouble,
which she would be no stronger to resist than
the rest of earth's weaklings, dashed helplessly
by the force of the storm against the rocks
hemming them in.

Bella Fayre had nothing to reply to the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield's remarks. She
looked shyly at her, as a young woman will at
her senior who talks suddenly of trials that she
has not had, and religion for which she is not
prepared, and it was only at the door that she
said,

I Avill send Miss Challis to you presently.'
Pray, do not,' said the mother at once ; ' 1

would prefer to sit up with Estelle to-night. I
must insist upon it.'

• But you have had a long journey, and '

I have quite made up my mind, Miss Fayre,'
said Frances Dangerfield, cutting short the discussion
which was impending, ' and, if you will
kindly give instructions to the servant to bring
me a cup of tea presently, I shall be obliged.'

'Yes; but '

And then Bella Fayre departed in a hurry,
and sought out Aggie Challis, whom she found
in her own room packing a few things into a
small trunk.

Hollo !' she said, not too elegantly, ' what
are you doing V

I am going away for a few days,' was the
reply.

What !— why r exclaimed Bella.

To make room for Mrs. Danger-field, who will
be naturally anxious to attend to her daughter
herself.'

A pretty one to attend upon Estelle, she is.'
Bella, what do you mean ?' asked Aggie
OhalHs.

I mean that I don't like sirs. Dangerfield's
manner at all — that she's not my style. She —
she's a caution, Ag, and no mistake !' she added,
confidentially.

CHAPTER IX.

NURSING.

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield left to
herself, and impressed with a sense of the
importance of the duties she had voluntarily
chosen, subsided hy degrees into her usual
calm demeanour, and was presently at home
in her daughter's apartment. She took off her
heavy fur mantle, smoothed her hair, still glossy
and' abundant, before the dressing glass, stiiTcd
the fire softly, and then went back to Estelle's
side and looked wistfully and affectionately at
her.

You are not sorry I am your nurse to-night,
Estelle?' she asked, solicitously.

No,' was the answer ; * is it likely I should
be sorry?'

I don't know, hardly,' said the mother,
but you — you have grown strangely fond of
these people — you have become used to
their ways, which,' with a sigh, ' are not my
ways.'

They have been very kind to me, aU of them.
They have cheered me a great deal, and I was
dull and out of sorts when I first came,' said
Estelle. ' I shall have a great deal to tell you of
the kindness, of the happiness there is in this
house, and which they have been anxious I
should share.'

She had been happier here than ^vith the
mother at home, the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field
thought — and she would have implied this
bitterly at another time, and with Estelle's
health less on her mind. Estelle had met youth
and girl's affection in this place ; life and life's
pursuits had been different and brighter —
it had not been all prayer-meetings and
church-going day after day, as it had been in
town.

A'^OL. II. F .

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield was pained,
but she was extremely cautious.

1 am glad you have been happy, Estelle,' she
said, although tears were trembling on her
lashes ; ' you make me almost sorry to take you
back to London.'

I did not say I had been particularly happy,'
replied Estelle, with a little sigh ; * on the contrary,
I am afraid I have been particularly
heavy. I am not sorry to return with you,
mamma,' and the fair hot hand was stretched
out from the coverlet towards her, ' only sony
that the friends I have made here cannot come
back with me.'

Are you so fond of them ? '

Well,' she said, hesitatingly, ' I haven't any
friends in town.'

You forget the Reverend Mr. Slow, and sir.
Smoothly, and Mr. McOffertory,' said the mother,
in mild reproach, ' and — and your grandpa,
and — Hamilton.'

She wished that she had not mentioned the
name the instant it had escaped her — the girl's
face flushed so deep a crimson, and the hand

resting on her own trembled so instinctively.
But she had reached the end of her circle of
visiting acquaintances, and it struck her that
Estelle had received the list with wonderful
apathy. There was a moment's pause, and then
the daughter said, softly,

Has he called lately to see — you, mamma V

Now and then — for a few minutes.'

Has he — has he asked after me, at any time?'

Oh, yes.'

He is well, I hope V

Yes, very well.'

And as discontented ^vith his position —
as he always is, poor Hamilton. Ah 1 1 should
like to see him,' she said, with another faint
sigh.

If you are better tomorrow — which you
will be, Estelle, with God's blessing — you will
not have to go to London to see him. He has accompanied
me to Warwickshire.'

Has he V cried the girl, her eyes sparkling
with a tell-tale brightness, ' oh ! I am glad of
that. It was very kind of him to come all this
way with you.'

f2 .

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield's face shadowed
again at her daughter's excitement. She
had distracted Estelle's attention from her new
friends, but she had said too much about Hamilton.
Estelle, she feared, nay, she knew, was hopelessly
in love with a young fellow who had not
given her a fond thought — who had been always
kind and cousinly to her, but had remained
terribly heart-whole, when this secluded
young woman had taken to worshipping him
for a hero, and building on every petty compliment
as upon an avowal of attachment. She
had hardly made an effort to conceal from her
mother that Hamilton Kedclove was very dear
to her — she had pined for him, even fretted
for him at last, when he had suddenly and ungraciously
dropped his visits to the square ; she
had been of late days so great an anxiety to
the mother that the change offered in Warwickshire
even seemed necessary for her safety. At
home the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield could
not, would not, offer her society's distractions ;
she had given up the world in her heart, and
most of the world's vanities — not all of them !

and this country vicarage, she had hoped,
might bring peace and resignation when Estelle
had completely mastered the fact that
Hamilton was never likely to ask her to become
his wife. That little difficulty in the way of a
proper understanding had, perhaps, hardly been
surmounted yet, for Estelle still nourished one
or two romantic ideas, born of much surreptitious
novel-reading, and fancy musings of her
own.

'You must try to rest now, dear,' said the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield, ' it is getting late,
and you are not to talk too much.'

I shall be glad when it is day,' said Estelle.

Try to sleep now, for my sake.'
T have not seen Aggie yet.'

Aggie !' exclaimed her mother, resentfully.

AVe call her Aggie in the house she brightens.
You forget she and I have become stanch
friends, mamma.'

You two V said Frances, shuddering.
'Yes.'

'I Alas afraid of this,' the Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield whispered to herself.

AdcI I think she likes me,' Estelle continued,
quiet and dull and odd as I am. I can never
forget — neither must you, mamma — that she
has saved mj life at the hazard of her own, and
that it was for love of me she did it.'

Yes, yes — a brave girl,' said the mother ;
M3ut try to sleep now, Estelle, or they will
blame me for being here, and letting you talk
like this.'

she walked from the bedside to the chair by
the fire, and Estelle closed her eyes and drifted
into dreamland by imperceptible degrees. When
the daughter was asleep, the Honourable Mrs,
Dangerfield sat and studied the old position
again, and wondered afresh how she should act,
and how it would end? She did not wish to
appear ungrateful, uncharitable, resentful of a
slight that had suddenly become very vague
and misty, and might have never been intentional
; but it was patent to her mind that it had
been a great mistake to allow Estelle to come
to Mr. Fayre's vicarage. The sooner that was
remedied the better.

When the maid-servant had brought in the

tea to the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield and
quietly retired, the house seemed to settle down
for the night; but at a later hour, when the
widow Alas reading a Testament she had found
on the toilet-table, Miss Fayre came in again to
offer assistance, to suggest the visitor taking
some rest, to harass her, in fact, with fifty suggestions
to all of which but scant attention was
paid.

'I am not fatigued; I am very Wakeful.
Kindly leave me with my charge,' were Frances
Dangerfield's replies.

Good-night, then.'

Good-night.'

I think all is well there,' said Bella Fayre,
pointing to the sleeper.

Yes, thank heaven.'

Bella Fayre retired, and the Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield watched through the night without
betraying any sign of weariness. In the early
morning Estelle awoke with a start, and forgetful
of the mother for an instant.

Aggie, are you there V she said, in a quick
voice.

It is I, my dear — your marrow. You have
not forgotten I am with you V

Ah ! yes, yes ; I remember now,' said
Estelle, ' 1 thought for the moment Aggie
Chalhs was taking care of me, as she promised
that she would

She dozed off again with these words upon
her hips, and when the morning dawned*
a fine, bright, frosty morning which the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield peered at through
the window-blinds — she was sleeping soundly.
It was seven in the morning, and Estelle not
yet awake, when Aggie Challis stole softly into
the room. She was equipped for a journey,
and Mrs. Dangerfield regarded hex with surprise.


'Asleep?' Agnes asked, with a gesture towards
the bed.

Frances nodded.

I will not disturb her,' she said, in a whisper,
I am going away now.'

Going away V repeated the Honourable ]airs.
Dangerfield.

It will relieve you from some embarrassment

during the few days you remain here. Mr.

Fayre agrees with me that it is best.'

Where are yon going ? Have yon friends V
I am going to my grand mamma's house at

Overcome, Mrs. Dangerfield.'

You do not mean '

I beg your pardon,' remarked Agnes, quietly,
to the house of my father's mother, I should
have said.'

You are welcome there V the widow asked,
in her surprise.

Yes, she will be very glad to see me.'

'Does she visit you V

I haste seen her once or tmce.'

Aggie turned, and looked long and steadily at
Estelle, and then went SA^^ftly towards the door
again.

God bless her,' she murmured ; ' I do not
suppose she and I will ever meet again, Mrs.
Dangerfield ; take care of her,' she added, ' for
she is not strong, and has no knowledge of the
world.'

It was a strange remark at parting, and the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield brooded upon it

afterwards. At present she had only Agnes
Chalhs to consider. She followed her to the
landing-place without, a woman's generous
instinct, a mother's gratitude impelling her.

Miss Challis, I fear I have not thanked
you sufficiently for your noble rescue of my
child.'

Of my half-sister whom I could not stand and
see drown.'

Agnes Challis insisted upon the relationship
still, even at the cost of the Honourable Mrs
Dangerfield's heightened colour and grave displeasure.


'And I thank you again,' added Frances
Dangerfield, after di-awing a quick breath, ' most
heartily and most gratefully. And if at anytime
you may be in need of ■ '

Good-day, madam, good-day,' and, before the
widow could finish her promise of future support,
Agnes ChaUis had flitted down the stairs.

She is very wild and abrupt,' muttered the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield, ' I don't think I
could ever like her.'

CHAPTER X.

ACROSS THE FIELDS.

It was four miles and a quarter across the fields
to old Mrs. Dangerfield's house — a short cut that
saved time, and two and three quarter miles to
anyone in a hurry to see the lady — but then, no
one was in a particular hurry about that.
Agnes Challis set forth on her expedition with
a will ; she walked briskly from the village,
tripped with graceful alacrity over the first stile,
and went on across the frosty fields — a woman
nth. a mission that took her at a rapid rate
from home. She had made up her mind, and
on her fresh young face was the reflex of her
purpose to anyone with leisure to observe it.
It was not marked by a determinate expression.

for all that — scarcely indicative even of that
firmness of character which she possessed ina
greater degree than she was herself aware;
there was a sadness, as well as a depth of
thought, in her looks that told of a sorrow for
the necessity which separated her from her new
friends at the vicarage. After all, life was not
clear to Aggie Challis ; there were cross-roads
and sharp turnings a-head, and she knew that
presently she must come to them, and stop
bewildered, looking round for the guide, friend,
and counsellor, who might never steal to her
side, to say, * That is the way — follow on, with
faith in yourself and your God.'

Her road in life was not as clears to her as
was the path across the fields to her grandmother's
house, and she could not pursue it
confidently. Life had become perplexity; she
was on the higher ground already, with the
keen air blowing upon her, and the mists rising
from the valley, and hiding the peace and rest
which she had found of late, but in the endurance
of which she had never believed. She
was a girl who had met affliction early, and

borne it well, and was prepared for more. If
she were in doubt concerning the future, she
was not fearful of her courage failing her in
it. Under all circumstances — good or bad,
right or \^Tong — Aggie Challis would be brave
to the last, she believed.

A mile and a half from the vicarage, her free,
swift footsteps were arrested for the first time,
and the tall, graceful girl stood, with clasped
hands, on the margin of a frozen lake. Here
had occurred the accident of yesterday — here
had begun the new life of Agnes Challis — and
from Estelle Dangei^field's dilemma were already
radiating strange lines of adventure and romance.
She was not thinking of this herself,
for hard, grim facts were at that moment oppressing
her. Time and' place, and the sharp
north wind, which had brought the colour to
her cheeks, were forgotten in her reverie, and
it was only a man's voice, clear and deep, which
aroused her from it.

Good morning, Miss Challis !'

Agnes turned round quickly, and confronted
Hamilton lied clove. Five years and more had

passed since their meeting under the big roof
of the North-Western Railway Station at Liverpool,
but she recognised him immediately. He
had not altered in any way — between the ages
of two-and-twenty and seven-and-twenty time
is merciful to man, and there was only a gi-aver
look upon his face. Perhaps he, too, was not
regarding life lightly then, and was uncertain
how to act. His dark eyes were fixed steadfastly
and scrutinisingly upon her ; and that
searching gaze, half curious, half perplexed —
never wholly distrustful — helped still further
to associate him with the day of her liberation
from prison, and of his kindness to her brother.

She was not embarrassed at his appearance
on the scene, although she was wholly unprepared
for him. With the old ease of manner,
the pleasant frankness which had charmed him
against his will when they had met last, she
turned to him at once.

Good morning. I did not think to meet you
down in Warwickshire,' she said.

'But, though you did not see me last night,
Miss Chalhs, you were aware that I came to the

vicarage with my cousin, Mrs. Daugei-field ?'
said Hamilton, in reply, as he took the hand
extended to him, as to an old friend whom she
was glad to meet.

Are you Mr. Hamilton Redclove, then V she
asked, with some surprise.

At your service,' he answered, relinquishing
her hand, and raising his hat ^vith ceremonious
politeness.

You were very careful not to tell me your
name when we met in Liverpool,' she said,
being a mysterious as well as a generous
stranger. You are the Mr. Redclove, then, of
whom I have heard Miss Dangerfield speak so
often.'

There was the faintest suspicion of a smile
flickering on the arched upper lip, and Hamilton
guessed readily what was in her thoughts, and
was for an instant disposed to feel aggrieved at
her fancy.

Ah, poor Estelle !' he said, however, ' you
will allow me to thank you for that courage
and presence of mind which saved her yesterday.'


I have been already thanked too much,' answered
Aggie ; ' it was impulse, not courage.'

Are you an impulsive girl V

I did not think so until a few hours ago,*
was the reply ; ' I have been disposed to consider
myself cool, and deliberate, and methodical
— one not easily roused.'

Or easily subdued,' added Hamilton.

Aggie Challis regarded him attentively before
she answered, lightly enough,

No, nor easily subdued, should the time to
fight my own battles ever arrive.'

She walked away from the lake, and Hamilton
kept step by her side.

1 am going your way, if you will allow me
to accompany you,' he said, by way of explanation
to her second look of inquiry.

Do you know which way I am going V

Mr. Fayre told me you thought of spending
a few days at Overcome.'

*Yes.'

They were both silent for a while, both on
guard possibly, both distrustful, in all probability.
Many thoughts were besetting the mind

of man and woman now that they were side by
side again, with less mystery between them —
with the man's name acknowledged and fresh
facts known. Aggie Chalhs was the first to
speak, with her bright, steady eyes directed to
the swarthy face of her companion, as though
she had suddenly found it worth the study.

I don't want — I don't care— to talk too much
of the past,' she said, suddenly, * but your presence
suggests one or two questions which 1
should be glad to ask, with your permission.'

I will reply to them with pleasure — if possible,'
he added.

Ah ! you speak with a reserve, as I thought
you would,' she answered.

Hamilton did not reply to this charge ; he
waited patiently for the questions with which
she had threatened him. He was bewildered
again — as easily and as readily as he had been
at Liverpool, when he was disposed to trust herat
first sight against the crowd of adverse circumstances
from which she had emerged. And
now, predisposed to think ill of her, as he had
been of late days, it was still impossible to face

VOL. II. G

those liLstrons eyes and believe in her duplicity.


He was on his. guard against her when he rose
early that morning, and crossed the fields in
search of her ; bnt with her at his side, and with
her crisp sweet voice ringing in his ears, he was
already defenceless. His distrust of the world,
of men and women, born of a harsh experience
unworthy of his better nature, was at fault here
and it was very strange, unless the simple
solution to the riddle lay in the fact that he had
misjudged Agnes Challis. Even to himself he
did not care to own that he was so poor a judge
of character — the knowledge of his species was
the one thing of which he was vain. Yesterday
he could have told himself complacently that
his deep insight into the world's of the human
heart had assured him that Agnes Challis was
as designing and dangerous as her mother, that
she was a clever actress, who was pla^^ang a
new part in Warwickshire, and whose duplicity
it was necessary to foil. To-day — and with her
in the flesh before him — it was a different matter.
She had grown into a heroine, and saved

Estelle's life, within the last four and twenty
hours, and Mr. Fayre had sung to her praise
and glory, in his quiet, hard way, and still he
had doubted her, until they were in the fields
together that sharp winter morning.

It was odd that he could not doubt her after
that. She must be ' a^'iully deep,' he thought,
bitterly, as he tried to think the worst of her, in
spite of himself.

I need hardly ask,' she said, ' if you are aware
of the position in which I stand as regards the
Dangerfields — that was known to you, in all its
-details, five years since V

Yes,' he answered, ' I kncAv all.'

Known to yon as to the others, in a superficial
way,' she added, ' but not my poor mother's
story as I, her child, could tell it if I had
the inclination, but knowing it in your own
fashion. Mr. Redclove,' she added, almost contemptuously,
' I thought you came to Liverpool
to help me and my brother V

Yes,' he said again.

At whose suggestion V

Well, I must confess now that it was origiii-

gally

suggested to my uncle by one Daniel Over-down,
of Birmingham.'

Yes, yes, that always faithful friend of mine,
she cried, with enthusiasm, ' bvt at whose suggestion
afterwards did you come to Liverpool
to give my brother money — to offer me help, if
help were necessary V

It is hardly worth making a secret of,'
he said, slowly and reluctantly ; ' but it is worth
relating % The story was ended five years ago.
Miss Chalhs.'

Such stories never end completely, and this
one is remembered in the grateful heart of one
woman,' she murmured.

You had nothing to be grateful for,' he said.

Yes, I had.'

The whole mission was a failure.'

Heaven knows it was not,' she cried.

But your brother '

Oh, I was not thinking of him, Mr. Redclove,'
she said, sorrowfully, ' although your mission
there may have worked well, or better than we
believe at present. For poor Sam was never
bad — never wholly inconsiderate. I have letters

from him, which, he wrote to me when I was in
prison, that bring the tears in my eyes to look
at still.'

Indeed !'

But who sent yon to Liverpool V asked
Aggie again ; ' was it the Honourable Mrs. Dan-garfield,
Estelle's mother ?'

No,' he replied, ' it was not she.'

Not Estelle's mother ? I am very sorry for
that,' she said, and the shadow of her disappointment
settled on her face. ' Who could it
have been ? Surely,' with a quick glance at
him, ' it was not your own impulse V

Oh ! no,' he said, with a laugh, ' I had
outlived all chivalrous impulses long before
that.'

Did the shadow deepen still more on her face
at his scoffing answer ?— he could almost imagine
that it did.

It was my father's mother, then ; the old lady
whom I am going to visit?' she said.

Old Mrs. Dangerfield's mind gave way at
the first news of her son's death,' said Hamilton.


Yes, yes ; then, why don't you tell me who it
wash' she added, with a little frown at him for
his tardiness of explanation.

It was my uncle who suggested I should go
down to Liverpool and do what I could for you
and your brother said Hamilton, smiling at this
exhibition of her petulance.

That man I' she cried ; ' is it possible that
he, in his selfishness, has ever thought of us I'

It was Hamilton's turn to be surprised, he who
had always affected coolness of deportment to
an extraordinary extent.

You speak as if you knew my uncle, Miss
Challis V he said.

I have not the honour of his lordship's acquaintance,'
she answered, 'but — I have heard
of him very frequently.'

She compressed her lips and looked firmly
ahead of her. Hamilton was not satisfied with
her reply.

Is that as frank an answer to a question as I
have given you ?' he said.

What I have heard of yom* uncle, Mr. Red-clove,
redounds so little to his credit that his-nephew

would not care to listen to the particulars


They may be false.'

Hardly.'

You hear of my uncle's thought for you and
your brother at a critical period — you believe
in that V

I am trying to see the motive for it,' she replied,
presently ; ' I shall work the problem out.
You will be Lord Kedclove when your rmcle
dies, sir?'

I am heir to the title — yes.'

You will make a better nobleman, I hope,'
she said.

I hope I shall in your estimation,' said
Hamilton, laughing ; ' for, upon my honour', Miss
Challis, you are terribly hard upon the present
lord.'

You are deeply attached to your uncle V

Hamilton laughed again.

I am like a cat, not deeply attached to anything.
And, if you press me hard with that
question, I mil even aver that my estimable
relative has one or two faults which, if he

could gracefully drop, he would be a better
man.'

One might say that of any man,' said Agnes.

Or woman,' added Hamilton.

I have known more than one unselfish woman,
too,' said Aggie, thoughtfully ; ' but oh !
the past — let us get away from it," please,' she
cried, with sudden impatience again, ' I don't
want to dwell upon it now. The world gets
brighter and brighter for me, if not clear yet. I
am a young woman who has made many friends
and not one enemy. Is that not something to
be grateful for?'

^ Truly, it is,' answered Hamilton.

The friends may drop away, and the enemies
come again, but I shan't be ungrateful for the
peace I have had, and the good feeling I have
been lucky enough to secure.'

'I hardly understand,' said Hamilton; *you
are waiting for enemies V

Yes, I am.'

The face looked very resolute for an instant
as he glanced askance at it.

'What enemies?' he inquired.

Yoimg Mrs. Dangerfielcl may be one, and
you — may be another,' she replied.

I hope I can answer for my cousin ; I am
sure I can respond for myself he said.

Your cousin Frances is a proud woman, who
dishes me instinctively, and naturally ; and I —
I,' she added, hesitatingly, * don't think I like
her. As for you '

She looked at him gravely, and then the sunlight
of one of her bright smiles rippled over
her face and changed its expression again. He
had been regarding her very gravely and wonderingly,
and his stolid aspect had afforded her
some amusement, it appeared.

Well,' he said, amazed in his turn.

Well,' she echoed, ' I — I shall never be very
much afraid of you.'

*No, I am not a very terrible being,' he
replied.

You started in life as a friend to me and
Sam.'

And you will be always grateful to old
friends?'

Yes,' she answered, readily: ' 1 will.'

You are an odd girl,' he confessed. ' You
are grateful to me, a medium of charity, and
not to him who conferred it.'

'It loss Lord Recovers money, then?'

Hamilton paused a moment, and then said,

I assure you, Miss Challis, that his lordship
desired me to spend his money as freely upon
you both as I thought necessary. And now,' he
said, quickly, ' as we have got back to the past
again, despite ourselves, let me ask you a question
in my turn.'

There was a strange, scared look at him
before she said,

1 will answer, if I can. Of course there are
some questions to which it would be very painful
to reply, and you may guess what they are,
and spare mei

am afraid my curiosity must be painful to
you Miss Chalhs,' he said, with a new earnestness
; ' but, let me confess, you have puzzled me
for years, although I have tried hard to understand
you.'

'AndfViiled?'

And failed,' he repeated.

I did not think there was much mystery
about me, although my life has been out of the
common track. But what do you wish to
know T she asked, Avery impulsively again.

I should like to hear from your OAvn lips the
story of that life.'

It is too long, and too humiliating.'
Let me confess that I have tried to read part
of it from the pages of an old newspaper.'
Ha !' she exclaimed, ' so curious as that.'

Not from idle curiosity,' he hastened to add,
but from interest in you as the daughter of a
dead friend, as one in whom Mr. Fayre believed,
when I Alas disposed to doubt — when it was
natural I should doubt.'

As you doubted me yesterday ?'

Before we met — yes,' said Hamilton, confidently.


As you doubt me now V she said.

'No, upon my soul I don't,' he cried, very
emphatically, but very inelegantly ; ' I can't tell
how it is, but I don't. I feel quite sure there is
something Avhicli you can explain to me.'

But which there is no necessity to explain,'
she answered.

I hope there is,' he cried.

Why V she asked, curiously.

So that I may be able to answer those who
judge you unfairly.'

Lord Redclove V

He never alludes to you.'

Never thinks of me V

Never.'

He was interested in me once — he was at my
trial at the assizes.'

Lord Redclove ! — my uncle ! — at your trial?'

Yes.'

There was a long pause, and they went half
across the next field, Hamilton assisting her
over the next stile in solemn silence.

CHAPTER XI.

ALMOST FRIENDS.

Hamilton was more than amazed — lie was-overpowered
by this statement of Agnes Chalhs.
He walked on, like a man endeavouring to sift
ont all the dream-like realities by which he
seemed beset. His memory went back some
five years ago, when he was constituted Lord
Eedclove's ambassador, and his lordship appeared
to know but little of these Challises, and to
care less for them, despite his charity. What
did it mean ? — and why had his uncle put himself
so much out of the way to deceive lum, and
Estelle Dangerfield, and others— even the man
Overdown — who had brought to him news of
which he was already aware ?

Miss Challis he said, at last, ' you have surprised
me.'

'Lord Kedclove might have toil you long
since how I bore myself at my trial for felony —
for being found in a house at Chester in unlawful
possession of goods that did not belong tome
— but you would have thought no better of
me for his history of the case. We will say he
was as curious as his nephew about my life, shall
we?'

Don't ask me yet,' he entreated ; ' give me
time, please — and pray continue.'

I have nothing further to relate,' said Agnes ;
but I will, out of gratitude, and to be thought
the best of by those Who have been kind to me,
say this — that I had a right to be in that house,
and that I was innocent of the crime for which
I was sentenced. Mr. Fayre knew this — Daniel
Overdown knows it — and to you I tell it now,
sir, and ask you to believe me.'

Miss Challis, I believe you,' he cried.

I offered no explanation to my judge — I do
not to you — it is impossible. But if you will
take my Avoid, why, then I shall never think of

you again as one of my enemies approaching.'

Never your enemy !' Hamilton murmured.

If 1 had been guilty, I should not look back
lightly at my prison life, and see in it only
Good's will that I should suffer. There is no
shame in it to me — it was a martyrdom, not a
punishment.'

Her face flushed with excitement. Hamilton
had never seen her look so beautiful, and his
heart thrilled strangely as he gazed at her. The
man who had prided himself on his scepticism,
his stoicism, his hardness of belief in anything
above the common run of sordidness and self-interest
was completely moved by Aggie
Challis's demeanour. Here was a woman who
had suffered — and had suffered for others — herein
the lower stratum of society, was unselfishness
personified, the first woman who, in his estimation,
had been ever worth a second thought.

She Alas the first to recover her equanimity.
That enviable art of self-repression — rarer in
woman than in man — was singularly at lier
command ; but then, it had been the study of
her life. Hamilton could scarce! v imagine, five

milites afterwards, that the lady by whose side
he walked had been eloquent and impassioned
over the past, which had done her injustice ; she
was so easy, and natural, and calm.

'I should not be surprised at the doctor's
giving permission for Estelle to get up to-day
she has slept well during the night,' Aggie
said.'

Very likely.'

Her mamma and you will be glad to get out
of this cold, bleak AVarwickshire country,' Aggie
went on, * and there is no probability of Estelle's
stay being continued at the vicarage V

No — I think not,' was the absent answer.

'I should have been glad to bid Estelle
good-bye,' Aggie said ; ' ^^dll you let her know,
Mr. Redclove, that that was my wish, at least V

Certainly,' was the reply.

I mean,' was the further explanation proffered,
' to let her know when she is back in town
not now.'

She will come to say good-bye to you before
she goes— of course,' said Hamilton,
decisively.

I have made my aclieiix to Estelle throiigli
her mamma,' said Aggie Challis, ' and .she and I
are not Hkely to meet again. It is as well,' she
added; 'it saves trouble and excitement, although
Estelle is not impulsive.'

Not very impulsive, certainly,' asserted
Hamilton, drily.

She has one of the best hearts in the world,
too, and I am sm-e she will not forget me, Mr.
Kedclove.'

'Why should she?'

Her mamma will tell . her presently it is not
worth while — that it is hardly judicious — to take
any further notice of the young woman at the
vicarage; and it will save embarrassment and
explanation if you will use your influence with
her also to this effect. And,' she added, after a
few moments' pause, ' years hence, when you
two are married, I should like you to disclose
the story of her relationship to me — it will do
her no harm V

Miss Challis, there is one delusion undci:
which you are labouring,' said Hamilton, very
quickly.

VOL. II. H

What is that V

I am not going to marty my cousin Estella
he continued; 'she and I are not Engaged to
each other — have never been attached to each
other.'

Indeed !' said Agnes, thoughtfully, even
sorrowfully.

I hope no one has said or intimated that weare
V he asked, with a sudden assumption of
dignity.

No one,' answered Agnes ; ' it was your
coming yesterday with Mrs. Dangerfield that
gave me the idea, I suppose. Excuse my mentioning
it ; I have been very rude.'

No — not at all — but '

And then Hamilton, like a wise man, dropped
the subject, and very adroitly drifted in another
direction.

But here we are at Overcome,' he said, ' for
that old red-brick mansion in the distance marks
the end of our journey.'

Yes, there is the end of it, ' she answered,
in so strange a voice that he looked
hard into her face to read some meaning

therefrom which it was not in his power to
interpret.

It is a gloomy place for one old lady,' Hamilton
remarked — ' a very sad and very lonely
place to inhabit.'

Yes, it is,' assented i\ggie.
1 can remember coming down here, as a boy,
to see Mr. Dangerfield.'

My father — yes,' said his companion, with
surprising coolness, as he passed.

And being terribly nervous of the gloomy
con-idols and passages, wherein T was eternally
losing myself,' he continued ; ' it must be an
uncomfortable home for its present possessor.'

There are associations that endear the place
to her — but, yes, she is very lonely,' added
Aggie Challis.

The last stile was reached, and Hamilton
sprang over it, and assisted his companion to
trip lightly after him.

I will bid yon good morning, Miss Chalhs,'
he said, with grave formality.

You are not coming to see old Mrs. Danger-field
V

h2

'Please excuse me. Not now.'

I thought you said you were going to
Overcome Park, when we first met,' she remarked.


So I was,' he answered, coolly, ' but I have
altered my mind.'

During the journey V
Yes.'

'So changeable as that?' she said, lightly,
and almost laughingly.

He smiled beneath the influence of her lighter
mood, and then became suddenly graver than
before.

Yes, so changeable ! ' he echoed ; ' pray
present my compliments to Mrs. Danger-field.'


I ^vill — if you have not the inclination to
present them for yourself,' she replied.

Not now,' he answered ; ' not for worlds.'

He shook hands ^\^th her, raised his hat, and
leaped over the stile into the frosty fields again,
over which he strode at a tremendous pace, after
one hasty glance behind him at the tall, fair
girl, who had been his companion from grayling,

and who was proceeding thoughtfully to
her new home, with all the smiles quenched from
her.

CHAPTER XII.

A PORTRAIT.

Agnes ChalLIS had certainly grave reasons for
reflection after parting with Hamilton Redclove.
If on her side she had puzzled her companion,
the behaviour of the lord's nephew had seemed
none the less variable and eccentric to her. At
the last moment he had suddenly bidden her
good morning, told her he had changed his mind
as to his intention of calling at Overcome, and
almost ran away from her. Had he ever intended
to visit the old lady on that occasion ;
had it all been an excuse to force himself upon
her society, and learn more from her than under
other circumstances he might have been able todo

? Had he set himself the task of studying
her, of worming from her, if possible, the secrets
of her life, in order to arrive at a truer estimate
of a character which he had confessed that
morning had perplexed him ? And yet, if so,
Why had he given up the opportunity of accompanying
her to old Mrs. Dangerfield's house,
and returned to the vicarage, where he would
only hear a highly-coloured story of her virtues
from the lips of those who thought too much of
her already.

However, did it matter what the nephew of
Lord Redclove thought of her? — he was passing
swiftly from her sphere again, just as he had
vanished away in Liverpool, and there were as
grateful recollections left behind with this second
flitting as with the first, when he had offered
to take care of Sam. On this occasion he
had owned his faith hi her, and a few secret
words of hers had shattered years of his distrust.
Well, it was satisfactory to live down suspicion,
and be judged more fairly by her little world.
It did not even matter Avliy, at the last, he had
altered his intention of seeing her grandmother;

but it was very remarkable, she thought again.
She was still thinking of it, as she proceeded
onwards with her head bent low. It was for
this reason that she was unaware that her sudden
appearance on the scene had already created
no small stir and bustle at the big house at
Overcome, where her grandmother was. The
old lady had risen early that day, and was
standing at the window of her drawing-room,
looking out upon the wintry landscape, when
the graceful figure of Agnes Challis was seen
approaching the house. Was it possible ? Could
this be anything more than a dream from which
she had not yet awakened '/ — had she ever
thought that Agnes Challis, 'Paul's gil' as
much as Estelle was surely, would thus quietly
and gravely approach her? What did this
arrival portend? Something new and strange
after all, something which might break her
down completely, humble her to the dust, or
arouse her to a sense of danger, perhaps defiance,
who could tell even that ? Or something
that would bring her that solace and peace of
mind which had not come yet to her declining

years, though she had struggled for it, prayed
for it ? When she was unhappy, Agnes Chalhs
had said, she would come and tell her of her
reason, and here she was ! The girl had walked
a long distance by the footpath between Grayling
and Overcome, had risen early and come
on in haste. AYith what news ? Heaven have
mercy on her, thought old Mrs. Dangerfield,
with what news was Agnes Challis approaching
her father's house ?

She tottered to the bell, which she rang very
loudly.

My cloak — my stick,' she cried to the servant
who entered somewhat hastily, as if alarmed by
his mistress's energetic summons, 'tell some of
them to bring down my things at once.'

Yes, madam. But '

I am in haste. I am going out. Don't you
understand me, you poor sleepy dolt,' she exclaimed,
angrily.

Very good, madam. Certainly.' And away
scuttled the lacquey, and presently Mrs. Danger-field's
maid entered, bearing the articles for
which she had inquired.

When she was ready for the journey, she
opened the French endows of the room, and
let in a rush of cold air into the place.

Shall I accompany you, madam V asked the
maid.

No, I don't want you. I don't want anybody?'


Thus it was that before Agnes Challis had
reached the red-brick mansion, shadowed in by
the great trees, old Mrs. Dangerfield, weighed
down heavily by furs, advanced along the
avenue towards her.

*What is it, child? What has happened to
bring you here so early? she exclaimed.

Nothing of any grave importance, madam,'
answered Aggie, * although I bring a little news
to you.'

Bad news?' was the quick inquiry.

Not bad news. Estelle's mamma came last
night to Mr. Fayre's to fetch her daughter home,
but something, which I will tell you soon, keeps
Estelle a prisoner at the vicarage for a few days.
Until she goes to London, I am in the way at
Mr. Fayre's.'

Ah ! yes — probably,' assented the old lady.
'And so '

And so I have come to ask you to take care
of me for a few days,' Aggie concluded.

Willingly,' said the old lady, as she turned
and put her arm through Aggie Challis's for
support ; ' willingly, as you know.'

I am welcome then, Mrs. Uangerfield ?' said
Aggie.

Yes, you are very welcome,' said the old
lady. ' I am glad you have come to me in all
good faith.'

Hence it may be seen, at this stage of
our narrative, that old Mrs. Dangerfield and
Agnes Chalks had become greater friends than
when we saw them last in the garden of Mr.
Fayre. They had met of late days, and approached
more closely to each other's hearts.
They had met at the vicarage, and once at the
church, but this was Agnes Challis's first visit to
the grand house where her father had been
born. She had shunned that imtil to-day, and
observing her approach from the window of the
drawing-room, bad naturally alarmed an old

lady whose nerves were far from strong. Her
hand was trembling, as it rested on the arm of
her companion. Agnes felt it shake as they
went slowly, the strong and the weak, np the
terrace steps into the house, and into the deep,
sombre hall, with oil-paintings and armour
ranged upon its walls and in its deep recesses.

I have excited you by coming without a
warning,' Aggie said.

All things come without warning to me,'
answered the old lady ; ' but you are welcome,
Agnes. Let me say that once more.'

I thought I should be, or '

Or you would not have attempted to lighten
the loneliness of my life,' was the half reproach
conveyed here.

It is to escape many questions, to spare your
daughter-in-law's pride that I come, Mrs. Dan-garfield.
For nothing higher or more laudable
than that.'

Still you are welcome, child. I am not used
to you,' she added, with a strange, wistful
expression on her seamed face ; ' it is like a
dream to see you in this house, but — I rejoice
it has come to pass.'

Courage, madam — courage.'

'Why should I want that?' asked the old
woman, quickly.

I cannot tell ; but sou seem very weak today.'


I am always weak — I am close on seventy ;
it's a great age for my family,' she said, almost
apologetically.

They passed into a spacious room together —
a pleasant dining-room, looking over a wide
range of park-land. There were more oil-paintings
on the wall ; one, as bright and fresh
as though it had been painted yesterday, was
particularly remarkable. It Alas the portrait
of Paul Erasmus Wilberforce Dangerfield at
the age of one-and-twenty, a clean-faced, somewhat
stern-looking young man, with a vast
amount of will expressed in the broad forehead
and decisive jaw.

Aggie looked at the portrait as she entered
the room, and the old woman's eyes followed
hers instinctively.

Do you know that face ?' she asked, in a low
tone.

Yes, very well indeed,' answered Aggie,
with a sigh.

Whose is it V
My father's.'

Why should you know V

I have a miniature at home like it ; it was
painted for my mother,' was the calm reply.

I should be glad to see it some day,' said the
old lady. ' You have never spoken of this
before to me V

There are many things of which I never
speak,' replied Aggie ; ' all belonging to the
past — wherein he looked like that' — pointing
to the portrait — ' is a matter of deep perplexity
to me.'

Perplexity !' repeated Mrs. Dangerfield.

Yes, I think so.'

Oh I don't think so, Agnes,' was the earnest
adjuration here ; ' it will age you before your
time to brood on this. There is no object in it,
and no solace.'

Agnes glanced up at the portrait again.

I am not quite sure of that,' she said.

CHAPTER XIII.

Plain-speaking

Estella Dangerfield did uot recover from
the effect of the accident on the ice so quickly
as had been prophesied by her friends. A
fragile girl, whom anything ont of the coin-mon
way disturbed, she was too low and feverish
all the day of Agnes Chalhs's departure
for the doctor to give her permission to move.
Hence the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield kept
to her daughter's room, maintained a rigid
watch, and was jealous of all intruders on her
privacy. The following day Estella was better,
or declared she was better. That small will
of her own ^vith which she was possessed,
gathered strength to itself, and resisted advice

petulantly. She was not going to remain in
bed any longer — she preferred not to be stifled
to death in that little room. She thought that
she would be glad to get downstairs, and see
Mr. Fayre, and Bella, and — Hamilton. Aggie
Challis, lie knew, had gone away to make
room for her mother, but she ventured to express
a hope that Aggie would be sent for.
It would be easy for Grandmamma Danger-field
to bring her over in her carriage. It
was strange that neither Agnes nor her grandmother
had come or sent throughout that
day, did not her mamma think so ? Then
mamma, always truthful, if rigid, had to confess
that messengers had arrived with inquiries
from the grand mamma and Miss Challis, and
had received the glad tidings that Miss Dan-garfield
was improving rapidly in health.

And nothing was said about Aggie's coming
to see me to-day V cried Estelle.

Nothing was said about Miss Challis's coming
to see you.'

That is a little strange,' said Estelle,
musingly.

You forget Miss Challis has just left the
vicarage on a visit to your grandmamma.'

I haven't forgotten that she saved my life
was the reply.

You Avould be ungrateful to forget it,' answered
the mother.

She is a very odd girl, but I can't understand
why she keeps away from me like this,'
was the half-fretful comment.

It was only yesterday she went away,' remarked
the mother again.

Yes — that's all very well, mamma ; but you
do not appear to comprehend that I have
become attached to Agnes Challis. When we
get to London, I will ask you to '

Presently, Estelle, when you are stronger,
we will talk of this,' said the Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield, interrupting her ; * you are getting
almost excited, and I want to see you as calm
and ladylike as ever.'

Ah, yes !' said Estelle, wearily, ' the calmness
will all come back in town.'

Excitement just now is very bad for you, the
doctor says.'

VOL. II. I

1 am not excited, but I am terribly tired of
this room.'

Or of the mother's company — which was it ?
the Honor-able Mrs. Dangerfield thought, regretfully.


These Fayres had not done her daughter any
good ; she knew that they would not when she
let her go, unwillingly, into Warwickshire. Estelle
was restless and almost impatient, and the
mother saw she had not sent her out of harm's
way — which was out of love's way — "with success.
The Fayres had conspired against her,
thought Frances — at least, the minister had, in
keeping back the secret of Agnes Challis's presence
in the house — and now she had brought
Hamilton himself into the country after her girl.

They went downstairs into Mr. Fayre's old-fashioned
drawing-room, where Estelle was
welcomed warmly by its occupants, and where
Hamilton saw her again, the fii:st time for many
months. He was studiously blind to her blushing
cheeks and trembling hand, and was soon
chatting with her as pleasantly' and easily as
ever — as if he had never stopped away all that

long weary time, which her heart had reckoned
by hours and minutes very sadly, as if he had
no knowledge in his own heart how much ho
had been missed I Very awkward and very
painful, ay, and very pitiful to witness, this onesided
love which lops over clumsily, and puts
the soul out of gear. It is generally too big to
disguise, and Estelle Dangerfield made no effort
to conceal her pleasure at the sight of him.
She forgot Aggie Challis's seeming indifference
to her state of health even — and possibly it was
on the strength of her daughter's affection for
Hamilton that the astute mother had calculated
when she had expressed a wish to be escorted
to Granting by her cousin.

Mr. Fayre and his daughter hardly ' got on,'
as the phrase goes, with the widow. Frances
Dangerfield was studiously polite, but studiously
grave and cool ; a lady who gave herself airs
of superiority, Bella thought, a little indignantly,
because she was Lord lledclove's daughter,
Bella Fayre not being behind the scenes with
Aggie Challis, her father, and the reader of this
book. She did not know that the Honourable

i2

Mrs. Dangerfielcl was a woman with a grievance,
bnt the minister did ; and he said, somewhat
suddenly, after lunch,

You are looking pale with your nursing, Mrs.
Dangerfield ; may I suggest a stroll through our
village V

The Honourable Mrs. Danger-field hesitated ;
but on the angular features of her host was an
expression not difficult to read.

Thank you,' she said, ' the fresh air will dome
good, perhaps.'

Mr. Fayre and the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field
went together into the country lanes and
towards the village and the church. If there
were to be war between them, they were not
long in drawing swords and slashing at each
other. They were both folk with a soul above
evasion, and they had not got out of sight of
the vicarage before Mr. Fayre began.

You will be glad when your daughter
Estelle is strong enough to leave us, Mrs.
Dangerfield V

*Yes,I shall be very glad,' was the quick assent.

She has improved since her stay here. She

came to Grayling a dull, .sickly young woman,
nth little interest in life ; thanks to Bella and
Agnes Challis, she is a brighter being altogether
now.'

She was not well when she left London.
Doubtless the fresh air did her good, until the
accident occurred.'

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield would not
allow that Bella Fayre or Agnes Challis had had
a share in her daughter's better estate. Mr.
Fayre did not wish to argue the point, but he
went on unflinchingly.

She has evinced a strong affection for Agnes
Challis.'

You should have checked it, Mr. l*'ayre,' Alas
the severe comment expressed, ' or have let me
know that that young woman was a resident
in your house. It was not right to keep me in
the dark concerning her so long.'

I could not see any possibility of harm, and
there was a strong probability of good arising
from their acquaintance,' he replied.

I should have been allowed to judge for myself,'
said the aggrieved mother.

But you could not judge, not knowing anything,'
he answered, very thoughtfully.

What do you mean?'

Not knowing Agnes Challis,' he continued,.
or Agnes Challis's story, or the motive which a
good and thoughtful girl might have in wishing
to meet your daughter face to face.'

It was her wish — it was her plot, then?' exclaimed
Frances Danger-field.

There was no plot in it,' replied the minister.
My daughter and yours had been schoolfellows,
and this visit had been arranged between them.
When Agnes considered the matter closely —
and it was a complicated problem for her to
solve, and for no one else — she thought it would
be wise to let her come to Grayling, and go
away again, in ignorance of the truth. No
harm could accrue, and good might follow indue
time.'

I can only see the harm to follow. There
is always a risk of a word betraying all.'

All what ?' asked the minister, quietly.
1 will not speak of a past that has shadowed
my whole life,' she cried, warmly ; ' you know !'

I know yoii are a proud woman, Mrs. Dan-garfield,'
said Mr. Fayre.

Au immured woman she corrected.

Yes, deeply injured ; but the man is in his
grave,' he added, thoughtfully, ' and cannot rise
up to solve a mystery.'

What mystery V

iVsk our Aggie presently.'

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield drew herself
up another inch or two.

I have nothing to ask Miss Challis concerning
my husband's past ; there is nothing that I
Avould go five steps aside to learn. God is my
witness,' she added, petulantly, ' that I learned
enough in the few weeks before he died to last
my time out.'

*You are a more excitable woman than I
have been led to expect,' said Mr. Fayre, gravely
regarding her.

You touch a wound, and are surprised that
I shrink,' she answered.

I had understood from your daughter that
you Avere religious, a lady not easily impressed
by this world, its trials, and its little vanities. I
am certainly sm-prised.'

My excitement surprises myself,' said the
Honor-able Mrs. Dangerfield ; ' but I have met
events out of the common way here, have been
deceived, and — and you do not even ask my
pardon,' she added, with sudden acerbity.

There is no necessity for me to ask any
human being's pardon,' said Mr. Fayre,
proudly, in his turn ; ' I was acting in your
cause.'

Impossible.'

As I shall continue to act,' he added, coolly ;
though I am very much disappointed in you,
madam, though your pride is objectionable, your
unforgiving nature repellent, and your religion
a sham.'

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield was
thoroughly confounded by this angular being's
plain speaking — this summing-up of her character
as no one in life had dared to estimate it
hitherto. In town she lead been greatly respected;
ministers had sought her advice, complimented
her on her liberality, and good taste,
and clear judgment ; and here was a poor
country vicar, whom she had only seen two

dayes, taking her to task and railing at her as at
a school-girl.

You — you have no right to talk to me like
this,' she said, in a voice Which trembled in spite
of her.

I think I have, madam,' he said, more gently ;
for I see a high character warped by prosperity,
and taking affliction as an insult from
heaven rather than a trial. You have been
deeply afflicted, I grant ; life has been a bitter
disappointment, but religion cannot have been
ranch of a solace to you, if the result is this,'
he added, touching her arm lightly for an
instant.

What should religion teach me f she asked,
in a low tone.

Charity.'

Is it want of charity that would save a
father's honour from being suspected?' she retorted
; ' that would keep patella apart from
Agnes Challis, for the sake of both young women ;
that would let a miserable story die out, rather
than live on to shame me with the rest of them V

You are getting excited again,' said Mr.

Faro ; ' it i.s very remarkable that everybody
has told me what a phlegmatic lady you are.
Pray compose yourself.'

I am composed,' she said, with dignity.
You will not see me disturbed again. But you
have not answered my question.'

I will answer it my own way, if you will allow
me,' he said ; ' the story cannot die out — there is
no keeping it back, with events marching forward,
and old Mrs. Dangerfield taking an interest
in Miss Challis, and Miss Chalhs alive and
watchful, and, in her own way, as proud as you
are.'

Proud !'

Therefore,' he continued, unheeding her exclamation
of surprise, ' there is a want of charity
in holding at arm's length the girl who has
saved your daughter's life — in letting her see
how ungrateful you are, and how unforgiving
for the wrong in which she took no part.'

I am not ungrateful,' murmured Lies. Dan-garfield,
' but I cannot make xYgnes Challis my
friend.'

I am sorry.'

Or my daughter's friend. It is beyond my
power.'

I am sorry,' the minister said again.

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield glanced at
him curiously, but he did not continue the
subject ; he had expressed his opinion, and was
silent until they reached the village, when he
said,

If you were to enter any of those cottages,
you would find their inmates had constituted
Agnes Challis almost a saint in their minds. But
she is not saint-like,' he added, drily ; 'she is very
human.'

It is God's mercy that the child of a bad
woman should turn to the light like this !'

I did not know the mother,' he answered,
slowly ; ' she was weak, and wilful, and eccentric,
Aggie confesses — but, please, do not call her
bad to her own child.'

Miss Challis and I are not likely to meet
again.'

I hope you will call upon her, at her grandmother's,
before you leave Warwickshire ?'

'No, sir.'

It is your duty.'

I scarcely require Mr. Fayre to tell me what
my duty is,' lie said, in very cutting accents
now.

I think yon do,' was the reply, as he sm
vexed her grimly, ' for yon are lamentably deficient
in that duty to your neighbour whom
you are directed to love as yourself. Your
religious education has been neglected — your
troubles are first, and your God stands second.
Why, a woman like you,' he said, almost contemptuously,
' despite her self-conceit, may give
up in despair at any moment of her miserable
existence.'

I am not miserable,' she cried, indignantly.

I am sure you are not happy, poor woman I'
said Mr. Fayre.

The Honourable sirs. Dangerfield shrank from
further converse with this singular beg, stalking
on by her side, and reproving her for her
sins of omission, this man, who would not remember
lie was a lady — a lady born I — and who
saw only faults, and pride, and mental misery in
her whom most people envied, and whom he

only seemed to pity, and almost despise. Yes,
it was as well that she left Warwickshire, and
Avent back to her own sphere — her own particular
religion, whose priests did her more justice
than he did.

I will go to my room — I am not well,' she
said, wearily, when she was back at the vicarage.

'Shall I send Bella, or your daughter, to
you

No ; leave me to myself for a while, please.'

To your better self,' he added, meaningly.

She turned from hun petulantly — she was
tired of his preaching, and of him, she thought.
But in her own room, with the door locked
against intruders, she gave way a little, and all
that she had said seemed to gather strength to
dismay her.

This is a terrible man — why did I come to
Warwickshire V murmured the rebellious spirit,
still strong in the fair bosom of Lord Redclove's
daughter.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE NEWS-BEARER.

Life with the old lady of Overcome was somewhat
of a dull existence to Agnes Challis, who
was fond of life, and enjoyed life, in her quiet
way. The gloomy grandeur of the place contrasted
unfavourably with the vicarage, and the-high
spirits of Bella Fayre were terribly missed-agnes
showed no signs of dissatisfaction with the
change ; on the contrary, she became an agreeable
companion to the grandmother, and kept
her thoughtful looks towards home to the time
when she was alone in her room, or on the
terrace of the garden.

The day following the dialogue in our last
chapter was Sunday, and old sirs. Dangerfield,

at the breakfast-table, told Agnes that she had
ordered the carriage to take her young companion
to Grayling Church.

You will be glad to see your friends,' said
the old lady, ' and to hear when the Danger-fields
leave the vicarage.'

Agnes looked thoughtfully at the speaker.

Are you going V she inquired.

No,' was the reply ; ' I never go to church —
you know I don't,' she added, a little petulantly.

I have heard you say so, I remember now,'
said Aggie.

I think too much in church ; I can't follow
prayer, hymn, or sermon. AVhat is the use of
my being there in the body, when the mind —
the little that is left of it — is miles and miles
away ?' she said, more irritably still. * In church
I am unhappy.'

I am sorry to hear this.'

Not that I was ever anything but an unhappy,
discontented woman,' said the grandmother
; ' and, when Paul died, the Avorld was a
great blank to me.'

You Avere very fond of your son V

God knows I was very fond and very proud
of him.'

Was he very fond of yon V asked Aggie.

The old lady set down her cnp and saucer,
which began to clatter in her hand.

Who told you he was not? she asked.

No one.'

He liked me well enough ; only that accursed
pride which he inherited from me and his father
did not leave room for much exhibition of affection.
But — he was not — a bad son,' she added,
very slowly, ' though we never understood each
other ; though my great love light have made
him trust me more.'

Some day — not now,' said Aggie, quickly,
you must tell me why he did not.'

'You are curious?' said the old lady, suspiciously.


'About my father — naturally. For he is a
greater mystery to me than to you.'

The shadow of his life falls upon another's
very strangely. But, Agnes,' said the old lady,
leaning across the table with an earnest look in
her deep-set eyes, ' it is not well to be curious

about him. You are happy and contented as
you are, and the sacred dead should rest in
peace.'
Still '

Please let it,' she said, in a strangely beseeching
tone, ' for the sake of an old woman who
has seen to your future and provided for it as
lie would have wished, had he lived.'

Agnes started, and the colour mounted to her
face. This was the first time it lead been intimated
to her that Mrs. Dangerfield of Overcome
had set her name down in her will, and
she took the hint thus conveyed somewhat
ungraciously.

1 hope you have not thought of me in that
"way,' she cried ; ' you must not talk to me of a
bribe offered for peace's sake. For, grand-mamma,
I am not at war with you.'

There, there, child, don't let us go on in this
fashion,' said the old lady, speaking very rapidly.
'I want you to know I have a right to
think of you — and that I have thought of you
a great deal. Let me be nov ; don't ask meany
questions ; don't let me ask any questions

Viii. IJ. K

of you. You have a story in your heart — I saw
it when I first came to the vicarage. It maybe
true or false, or half-true ; lout don't trouble
about it any more. I am an old woman who
would be at rest.'

Agnes bowed to her appeal ; the old lady's
eagerness was touching. It was a wild, yearning
cry for repose — for even Agnes's silence
under much wrong and calumny, perhaps — and
the fair young woman Alas not there to disturb
the last days of one whom trouble had shattered
strangely.

'I will stay at home and read to you this
morning,' said Agnes ; ' you are not so well as
I could wish.'

Not so calm, perhaps,' she added, half apologetically
; 'for we have drifted into a subject
which always disturbs me — that might drive me
mad again at any moment, and take me back
to that awful place 1 got free from by a miracle.
Am I not keeping you from church V

I did not intend to go to church this
morning.'

Not to see Miss Fayre— or Estelle V

I must keep here till Mrs. Dangerfielcl and
her daughter have returned to London — if you
will put up with me,' she added.

It is your home so long as you can put up
with me,' said the old lady, with emphasis.
Shall I countermand the order for the carriage
V

Yes.'

'And yet your heart is with those girls at
Grayling?' said the old lady, a little jealously.

If they think so, they will come and see me,
or send me a kind word,' said Aggie.

Ah !' said old Mrs. Dangerfield, with a little
sigh, ' there is some of the family pride in you,
too!'

'Have I anything to be proud of?' asked
Aggie, with a faint smile.

Yes, I think so. For you ' — here she stood
up and rested her thin hands on the shoulders
of her grand-daughter — ' are a good girl.'

I am not certain of that,' said Aggie, with a
laugh, ' oh, dear no — -I am far from sure.'

The conversation took a lighter turn, thanks
to Aggie's adroitness, and presently the two

k2

women were sauntering about the garden together
— the elder leaning on the young one's
arm. It was a mild day for winter time — the
frost had gone yesterday — and the south wind
had come stealing for a few fugitive hours into
Warwickshire. The sun was bright and it was
warm on the terrace, along which the two women
walked. It was in this position, and on
this terrace, that Hamilton Redclove found them
about half-past twelve o'clock that Sunday
morning.

It was the old lady who saw him first in the
distance, and took him for a trespasser.

Another of them,' she said, pointing to 
and the slight figure advancing"
beneath the trees ; ' these Warwickshire boors
look upon my place as common property, and
make cross cuts over it in sheer defiance. I
shall have to prosecute somebody presently for
example's sake.'

Aggie gazed in the direction indicated.

It looks like Mr. Redclove,' she said.

Did he say he was coming V

*No.'

He brings its news that they have left the
vicarage,' was the old lady's suggestion.

Very likely,' answered Agnes, softly.

The elder woman glanced sharply under her
grey brows at Agnes for a while, and then
once more turned her attention to the guest advancing
towards them.

Why couldn't he approach the house in a
proper fashion,' she muttered ; ' he must have
scaled the park-fence and jumped the ditches,
like a poacher.'

He is not particularly ceremonious, I fancy.'

I don't quite know what to make of him,'
said old Mrs. Dangerfield, still watching Hamilton
; ' he is full of odd conceits and ideas, with
a strong touch of his uncle in him.'

Oh, not like his uncle, I hope I' cried Aggie,
quickly.

Why — what does it matter to you V

Nothing,' answered Aggie at once, ' but tins
is surely a gentleman — honest and brave. You
forget he came from London to Liverpool to
help two outcasts, and their position did not
shock him, but warmed his heart towards them.

I can't believe Lord Reclclove sent him Aggie
added, very positively.

He said he did ?'

Yes.'

Well, perhaps he is not to be relied upon for
veracity — Lord Eedclove was always a terrible
liar, Agnes, and perhaps the yoimg man takes
after him,' said the old lady, calmly.

Hamilton had seen the ladies, raised his hat,
and was coming up the terrace steps towards
them. Old Mrs. Dangerfield sat down in a gar-densest
that was handy, and ignes stood by
her side with a smile of welcome to the newcomer
as he advanced.

Good morning, Mrs. Dangerfield. Good
morning. Miss Challis,' he said, approaching and
shaking hands with them, ' 1 have taken advantage
of the fine morning to escape Mr.
Fayre's sermon, and pay you a visit, if you mil
excuse the intrusion.'

We are glad to see you,' answered the old
lady. ' Did you come from Grayling direct ?'

Yes.'

Then you have been climbing all my walls
and fences.'

That vas to save time, Mrs. Dangerfielcl, and
is proof of my impatience to reach you.'

I am too old to care for compliments, Mr.
Redclove,' said the mistress of Overcome,
severely, 'and this young lady is too vn.se, I
hope.'

There is no compliment intended. Time
u-as precious, and I was impatient to see you
both.'

Why T was the laconic inqmiy.

I have a gTcat deal of news to communicate,*
he said ; * may I sit down V

Certainly.'

There were two or three little rustic chair's
scattered about the terrace, and he found one
for Agnes and another for himself, waiting very
courteously for Agnes to be seated in the first
place.

Agnes sat down and glanced at him curiously.
He was flushed a Httle with his walk or the
excitement of the news he had come thither to
impart, and his dark eyes were very bright and
black in the sun, and seemed twinkling as with
a thought of mischief. Still his voice was well-regulated

and clear, and his whole demeanour
was coo] and easy.

In the first place, Mrs. Danger-field,' he said,
addressing himself exclusively to the old lady,
I am desired by Estelle to inform you that she
purposes visiting you tomorrow morning.'

With her mother V

With or without her mother, according to
circumstances,' was the reply, ' but she will
certainly come.'

I hope not without her mother's consent,'
said Agnes, interposing.

There is an idea of starting for town tomorrow
afternoon, and Estelle has made up her
mind to say good-bye to you both, before she
goes,' said Hamilton. ' On that point, I have a
strong idea she will be very firm.'

If my daughter-in-law thinks such a leave-taking
unnecessary, she will surely tell Estelle
so,' said the old lady.

'Yes — exactly,' was the reply, 'but Estelle
considers she will be deficient in common gratitude
to leave Grayling without a word of thanks
to her who saved her life. I think so, too.'

You have been persuading her to come
said old Mrs. Dangerfield, with excitement.
'You will make words between mother and
daughter — you had no right to interfere.'

I have not interfered,' he said, coolly.

You said '

'I said that I agree with Estelle's decision,
Mrs. Dangerfield,' he remarked. ' So I do — but
I hav not attempted in any way to influence
it. Estelle does not know what motives my
cousin Frances has for keeping her away — she
simply feels a gratitude and an affection towards
Miss Challis, and she is coming to express her
.sentiments like a little lady, as she is.'

'You are enthusiastic, Mr. Kedclove,' said
old Mrs. Dangerfield.

I hope not — I detest enthusiasm about anything
— I always did. My friends would tell you
that I am a cautious and calculating man — and
I adopt a cautious policy this morning in warning
you of Miss Dangerfield's approach.'

In opposition to her mother's wishes— 1 don't
like it,' muttered the old lady.

The mother has expressed no wish concerning

Estelle's movements,' said Hamilton, coolly.

You know that this step will displease my
taught er-in-la w. '

On the contrary, I have an idea that she will
be glad some day that this visit has been
paid.'

Agnes, we will drive over this evening, and
forestall them,' said old Mrs. Dangerfield ; ' it will
save trouble to them and embarrassment to us.'

Agnes shook her head.

I promised the mother I would keep away
from the vicarage till she had left it,' said
Agnes, 'and I must be as good as my word.
Mr. Redclove can take my message of farewell
to Estella.'

She will scarcely accept it as a hint not to
call at Overcome,' said Hamilton.

I will write her a letter, implying that I
do not expect to see her,' said Agnes.

I am afraid the implication ^vill not be perceived,
Miss Chalhs, unless you are very plain-spoken;
which it is possible to be,' he added,
drily.

Agnes remembered that she had spoken out

very plainly what was in her mind when they
had walked across the fields a few days since,
and was uncertain whether to feel cross or
pleased at his remembrance also.

Still I will write,' she said, quietly.

As you please,' answered Hamilton. ' I
shall be pleased to act as messenger.'

The three ^v^ere silent for a while after this,
and the subject was concluded. Hamilton had
made his announcement, and Aggie Chalhs
and the old lady had commented upon it, and
there was nothing adore to be done but await
the progress of events. Hamilton did not rise
to take his leave, but, on the contrary, sat
back in the rustic seat like a man tired outwith
his journey, and resolved to prolong his
stay.

Although this is quite a summer's day,' ho
said at last, * I scarcely think it prudent for you,
ladies, to sit without doors in the middle of
December.'

We are fond of fresh air, and used to it,' said
the old lady.

It is our town-bred dolts that take cold

readily,' said Hamilton. ' If I had my own
Avay, I would never see town.'

So great a lover of the country as that !'
said Agnes, in surprise.

I am sick of town,' he continued, ' and the
capacities of town-life have grown very wearisome
to me. What a charming old place this
is ! I have not seen it since I was a boy,
when I came here as a visitor, and was made
very welcome.'

Mrs. Dangerfield, the elder, was flattered by
these remarks, as he meant that she should
be.

You are welcome here now, Mr. Redclove.
If you care to be the guest of an old woman —
at any time — you may consider my-house your
home.'

Thank you very much — I shall not forget an
invitation which you gave me first at your
daughter-in-law's house, and are now kind
enough to renew.'

The house is a dull one, and I am very poor
company — but here is a study to write in, books
io read, game, if you wish, to shoot. Come

when you will, Hamilton Redclove — I will not
fail in giving you a welcome.'

Thank you,' he said again, ' I may be here
sooner than you think. Sponging on my friends'
hospitality will become part of my profession,
too, as the world goes round and leaves me
undermost. You don't understand me V

I am very dull of comprehension sometimes.
No, I don't understand you,' was the reply.

«AhI I haven't told you all the news — not
half the news — which has put me in good spirits
this morning,' he said, laughing, 'which has
shocked my cousin Frances — a poor lady who is
shocked too easily — and shaken fashionable
society not a little. My uncle has written tome
announcing the fact of his second manage.'

Lord Redclove married again !'

Hamilton laughed very heartily at the old
lady's amazement — it was an odd joke for him
to relish in so genuine a fashion, but there was
no affectation in his merriment.

Ay, and what is more, the old boy has been
man-hed nearly twelve months, and has kept the
affair a secret for fear the world should laugh at

Ms taking to himself a wife of nineteen, lest his
daughter Frances and I should be too severe
upon him also for pleasing himself before ns.'

He was always sly,' said the old lady,
vindictively, * and deceitful.'

« He has not all the parties under heaven,'
replied Hamilton, ' but then the Redcloves are
not a virtuous race. Frances is the first saint in
the family, I think, and Estelle comes in a bad
second. As for me, I am full of hatred, envy,
and un charitableness. I never made a friend in
my life ; I have insulted or distrusted those who
might have been my friends ; I never believed
in man or woman ; I am altogether a bad lot. I
have been under a cloud all my life— the dark,
sullen thundercloud of a worldly uncle's patronage.
Now,' he cried, cheerfully, 'I can step
beyond it into a purer air, and breathe the freer
for it.'

Your uncle's marriage may make a difference
to you,' said old Mrs. Dangerfield, thoughtfully.

More news before you condole ^\dth me,' he
said, lightly; 'my uncle's wife has, presented
Lord Redclove with a son and heir — Lord Red-clove

is in the seventh heaven of sleight, and I
am a poor commoner for ever.'

Yes ; that makes a difference to you indeed,'
said the okl lady. ' I am sorry for yon, Hamilton.'


It brings me down to earth with a run,' he
said, with mock gravity ; * it pricks all the gas
out of my bubble ambition, and leaves mea
penniless prig in a world where prigs without
money are almost as unendurable now-a-days as
prigs with it. ind, by the way, as I am so
suddenly hard up, perhaps you will not mind
asking me to stay to luncheon ?'

Certainly; but '

Thank you. Now, had we not better get in
out of the cold?'

CHAPTER XV.

OF SEPARATE WORLDS.

/

Hamilton Redclove lunched at Overcome,.
and made himself agreeable to the ladies. He
was full of anecdote, and altogether at his ease
never was a man through whose hands a title
had slipped in such spirits. A republican of the
brightest red could not have treated his loss
with more thorough contempt. In the genial,
hight-hearted being at Overcome, Lord Red-clove
would have completely failed to recognise
his stiff, starchy nephew, of whom he was more
than half-afraid — whom he had never taken
readily to his heart — and in whom he had not
placed any confidence, private secretary though
Hamilton was supposed to be.

Hamilton alluded once more, and only once
more, to the change in his position Which the
birth of an heir to the Redclove estate had made
for him. This was after luncheon, and when he
had followed Agnes to the terrace again, having
successfully talked the old lady into a drowsy
state in less than ten minutes. Agnes had left
them together, thinking they might like to speak
of old times — of her father, of whom she knew
so little — of Lord Redclove and Frances Dan-garfield—
and thinking, also, that they could
speak more freely in her absence ; but, in a short
while, he was with her on the terrace, along
which they walked slowly side by side.

'Mrs. Dangerfield is asleep,' he said; 'may I
come and keep you company V

If you like,' Agnes answerer!.

I daresay you think I have been acting very
cleverly my part of philosopher this afternoon,'
he said, ' for you looked at me suspiciously at
luncheon more than once.'

I hardly understood why you should not be
sorry for your uncle's marriage, and for the loss
of a title.'

VOL. II. L

I hight to have been sony, but the fact is,
my expectations have always been just far
enough in the background to keep me unsettled
and restless. It was on the cards that my uncle
would marry — the fact is accomplished. It was
on the cards that he would not leave me a penny
of his money, or an inch of his land — he has
often hinted as much — and, lo, the money and
land slide gracefully away from my clutches.
As for the title — I never Avanteded it — more than
once I have shuddered at the thought of acquiring
it. Strange, is it not V

Yes ; I think so — in you.'

Why m me V he asked, almost sharply.

You have been brought up amongst the
class that worships rank and family's

That's my misfortune not my fault,' he
answered, drily.

I don't know whether you are satirising me,
or not,' said Agnes, doubtfully ; ' your ways are
not my ways, and I shall not attempt to understand
you.'

I am not difficult of comprehension.'

You have been always a mystery to me,' said
Agnes, thoughtfully.

I am sorry for that — because I hath
mystery.'

As miicli as you hate enthusiasm V asked
Agnes, archly.

'More so.' he said, laughing. 'Now, see
wdiat the loss of a title has done for me
already. You are no longer afraid of me —
you seem to have become — if I may say so,'
he added, deferentially, — ' almost my friend.'

In one way, I have always thought of you
as a friend, as I hope my brother has —
but I have never been afraid of you, mr.
Redclove.'

Then you ouo:ht to have been !'

Those who have been kind to me live in my
gratitude.'

Ah ! I think I hate gratitude, too. It makes
you humble, and sets me a long distance away
from the daughter of an old friend. I don't
understand you, either,' he added, very quickly,
as her colour mounted to her face ; ' your character
has troubled me a great deal, and, before
I leave Grayling, I should like to read it like a
book.'

L

o

Your idea of your own character does not
assimilate with all that Mr. Fayre and his
daughter tell me.'

I hope they have not been too hard upon
me?'

You know what they are likely to say V

Yes,' said Agnes, with a little sigh : ' they
are very kind.'

And Estelle, too '

Ah ! poor Estelle ! — it seems strange I shall
not see her again !'

But you shall see her.'

No — not if I can help it.'

Miss Challis, I am particularly anxious about
this,' he said, earnestly ; ' I am vexed at Estelle's
mother's coldness and hardness; you are not
being treated well by my cousin, and such poor
pride as hers deserves a lesson.'

Which I care not to give. You must consider
me, Mr. Rcdclove, in this matter, too. I
think I have a voice in it.'

Undoubtedly.'

It will not do me any good to receive

Estelle's thanks, or to see Estelle herself, in
opposition to her mother's wish.'

*You forget Estelle is a very firm — even
obstinate — young woman at times.'

I will write to her before you leave to-day.
When do you think of returning V

Hamilton put his hands behind him, and
looked down at the red gravel to consider the
matter seriously.

Well, I hardly know,' he said ; ' it depends
a great deal upon the old lady within there.
If she asks me to dinner, I shall certainly stop.'

Are you not expected back at the vicarage V
asked Aggie, in surprise.

I hinted that my movements would be uncertain
to-day. They are all inclined to pity
me and preach at me — except Bella Fayre,
who would laugh at me for two pins — and the
general idea is that I am walking about the
fields tearing my hair and railing against fortune,
which has played me so vile a trick. I
am glad to be away from them all — awfully
glad. See what a terrible lot of their company
I have had lately !'

Aggie laughed at his fears and his ingratitude
— yes, they were almost friends already,
and the loss of this chances had reduced him
to a lower level, where she could meet him with
less embarrassment. This was the first time
she had encountered the real Hamilton Red-clove
— and he was pleasant company chatting
in this light Avay to her. He knew much of
her history, and did not shrink away, as young
Mrs. Dangerfield did ; he behoved in her without
an explanation too terrible and too unnecessary
to make to him, and he was a hero through
it all — a hero of the old days when life was
cloud-land, and he shone through it, and came
with helping hands towards Sam and herself.
This was the fourth time they had met in their
lives, and yet she could have called him friend
always, if he had really wished it— and been
proud of his friendship and interest for all
time. She was no longer on her guard against
him, as she had been, despite his charity
till that day. She felt that she could trust him
now.

Overcome is a charming place,' said he. ' I

ought to have been here every day, and taken a
dozen or two of sketches.'

'Yon 23amt V

I dans a little. I do nothing well — that is
the worst of it — now I have to earn my own
crusts.'

Yon will remain your uncle's secretary,
surely V

Private and confidential secretary — oh, no !
not after his want of confidence — and after
that baby!' he added. 'Perhaps I shall get
something under government abroad, or go into
the mine trade, or buy an agency, or open a
butcher's shop. I am anxious to begin real
work, for the first time in my life — I have been
playing at it, and loafing life away till now.
Do you know anything of the Cape '^ — or about
Kaffirs V

Agnes shook her head.

Never mind — we will not talk of this anymore,
please. I have come to Overcome to
evade it. Cannot you suggest another subject V
he inquired.

Yes.'

Pray do.'

I have had something to puzzle me for days
said Aggie.

'A conundrum? Let me hear it. I am fond
of riddles.'

Ah ! yon are laughing at me again !'

I wouldn't laugh at you for '

" For worlds !" ' said Aggie, quickly. ' Yes,
that's the phrase, and the puzzle to me. When
you walked with me across the fields last week,
you said that you were coming on to Overcome
; when Overcome was in sight, you
told me you had altered your mind, and would
not proceed further for worlds. Why was
that

Hamilton did not answer at once. He studied
the gravel path again, and locked his hands
together behind his back, and was silent until
they had reached the end of the terrace and
turned.

I am a changeable man ; I don't know
my own mind for half an hour together. I
am distressingly versatile,' he said at last.

That is not a fair reply.'

A shallow, as of disappointment at his evasion,
passed across her face, and his quick, watchful
glance detected it.

I will tell you, if you are very curious,' he
said.

I am very curious.'

And will not be offended with me ?' he
added.

I do not readily take offence.'

And will not be offended T\ath me V he repeated,
very emphatically.

No,' she replied.

'I will make a clean breast of it, then,' he
said, ruefully. ' I was suspicious of you when I
overtook you. I thought I was acting in the
interests of the family by watching you. I had
intended to come on here and be a foil to you
and a spy, and to warn that solitary old woman
against you. Before I had reached Overcome,
all my suspicions and my cunning projects for
your discomfiture were trampled under foot, and
I felt I was a coward and a cad. I turned back,
Miss ChaUis, as heartily ashamed of myself as
even you could wish me to be.'

Agnes Challis was silent in her turn for a few
moments ; then she said, quietly,

Thank you for a better opinion of me than
you had a week ago.'

It was a free forgiveness you promised he
said, meaningly.

I have nothing to forgive,' she replied. ' I
don't know Why you should not have suspected
me, and I wonder a little what I said that should
have changed you from a spy to — to a friend,
I was going to say,' she added, with a little
laugh.

Well, why not friend V

It is impossible.'

I don't quite see that.'

I do not want any friends,' was n the abrupt
answer.

Thank you,' said Hamilton.

Your world is not my world ; yours is
full of great, grand folly, and mine only holds
myself, and needs nobody but myself for
company.'

That is hardly correct.'

Why not?' asked x\ggie, sharply.

You have plenty of friends, according to
your own showing. There are Mr. Fayre and
his daughter, old Mrs. Dangerfield, and every
humble inhabitant in Grayling to whom you
have been kind.'

Not of my world — not one of them,' she
cried.

EsteUe Dangerfield !'

A half-sister, whom the truth would frighten
to death.'

Daniel Overdown V

'An impatient, hot-headed, unselfish being,
heaven knows, but as apart from me and my
life as you are.'

I should like a little glimpse into this world
of yours,' said Hamilton.

It would not be worth the trouble to describe
it, and it would be beyond yom* comprehension.'


Shadow-land, perhaps V

Shadow-land and dream-land together.'

*An odd atmosphere for a quiet girl to exist
in.'

Still I exist,' was the quiet reply.

But you are neither a shadow nor a dream.'

I may pass away, like either,' she said, sorrowfully.


I don't understand her yet,' thought Hamilton
; but he did not answer her again, or seek
to argue further with her. The new sadness
on her face checked him, and there were
thoughts there which his instinct told him to
respect. This was no longer the light-hearted,
laughing-faced Aggie Challis, who, at times,
did not seem to have a care in the world, but
who only had the gift of keeping her cares at a
distance by strength of will and faith in herself.

He did not understand her; but he was wonderfully
interested in her. Hardly as a friend,
perhaps — he could not tell — he did-not seek to
know; but she was right in one thing, her world
was not his, and her pride was not like his own.
He believed in her now implicitly ; she was as
near a heroine in some respects as any woman
he had ever met out of a book, and she was as
brave as most book heroines. Yes, she would
pass away like a shadow and a dream to him ;
lie was going into active life somewhere, and

she would live and die in Warwickshire, probably
; but for all that he should be very much
obliged to old Mrs. Danger-field if she asked him
to stay to dinner presently.

CHAPTER XVI.

LATE-COMERS.

Hamilton Redclove teas asked to dine at Overcome.
The invitation was not to be gracefully
avoided, had okl Mrs. Dangei"field wished to do
so ; for the young man betrayed no desire to
depart, and evidently wished his visit to be considered
as a something less formal and more
friendly than a morning call. He had made up
his mind to a long day ; he spoke very plainly
of the relief it Alas to him to be free of his relatives,
and of their objectionable condolence with
him on a loss which he affected not to deplore.
The news had unsettled him certainly, and in
his state of iinsettlement he had walked across

the fields to the home where he had been always
welcome in his boyhood. He trusted that
he was welcome now, that the ladies would not
send him back too quickly to his cousins' pity,
and ]mr. Fayre's long-winded exhortations to
patience under worldly afflictions. He did not
need pity, he said again, and he felt it would
be ungrateful, although absolutely necessary, to
return Mr. Fayre's sermon with sarcasm, if he
had another dose of it before bedtime.

It did not require all these hints to secure an
invitation to dinner from old Mrs. Dangerfield ;
but after it had been given and accepted, Hamilton
still had an excuse or two to offer, lest his
pertinacity should be considered as the persistence
of an ill-bred man. He would have taken
up his position as a friend of the family at once,
but although the old lady was polite, and even
at times genial, he felt that he was the stranger
ill the house, albeit a stranger who was avcI-
come, and who improved upon acquaintance.

He was a cautious young man, too, who did
not devote all his attention to Aggie Challis ;
he talked to the elder lady of past times, ho

brought to her recollection episodes of the days
when her son Pant lived, and he made rapid
strides in her good graces. In the evening,
when he rose to go, both women were sorry —
Agnes because his pleasant, easy, if a trifle airy,
manner was a relief to the dulness of the house
in which she had immured herself, and because
if it be necessary to analyse our heroine's
feelings at this early stage — she was interested
in him, as an atom of the past that had drifted
to the life in which he had acknowledged he
was interested too. He was a new character to
consider in her little world — a something different
from the rest ; and though, when she came
to reflect more deeply, she might dislike him
more, and trust him less, still he was a being to
study, an agent in her life ; a benefactor, even,
who had been kind to Sam, and bore no malice
because Sam had been ungrateful.

He was shaking hands with them and Ravishing
them good evening Avhen the clock was
striking eight. There was a long walk before
him across the fields ; he should take that route
as a cross-cut to Grayhng, despite its loneliness.

he said; and then, as he turned to withdraw,
the bell of the house — and an old sepulchral
bell it was — clanged loudly.

Visitors,' said Agnes, wonderingly.

Estelle,' cried the old lady. ' I am sure of it.'

Hamilton became conscious of the old lady's
reproachful glance in his direction, and he
shrugged his shoulders as he said,

I have had nothing to do with it. I think,'
he added, ' it can scarcely be Estelle at this
hour.'

He sat down to await the result, and in due
course the servant announced,

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield and Miss
Dangerfield.'

An instant afterwards, and Frances Danger-field,
tall and stately, and with her daughter at
her side, was ushered into the drawing-room.

This is an unexpected pleasure,' murmured
the grey-haired lady, who was visibly embarrassed.


Estelle and I thought it would be ungracious
of us to leave Warwickshire without calling to
wish you and Miss Chalhs good-bye,' said the

VOL. II. M

widow, ' and, as our movements are imcertaiii
tomorrow, I hope yon will excuse the lateness
of the present visit.'

You are Welcome, Frances, at any hour,'
replied the old lady.

Thank yon.'

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield turned to
Agnes, who was steadily surveying her, and
held her hand towards her frankly, and in a
new manner to which our heroine had not been
hitherto accustomed.

Miss Challis, I am very glad to see you
again,' she said, and her voice faltered just a
little in the saying of it.

I did not think that you •' And then

Aggie paused; but young Mrs. Dangerfield
guessed what she was going to say, and had
instinctively refrained from saying.

1 have been proud and harsh to you ; forgive
an unhappy woman, and think no more of
it,' Frances said, in a low tone.

'I am surprised,' replied Aggie, *I hardly
know '

I will explain at a later hour. Now talk

±0 Estelle,' said she, once more interrupting
lier.

She made room for her daughter, Who dropped
into the seat by Agnes's side, took both her
hands in hers, and kissed her.

My dear Aggie, why did you run away from
us, and leave me to that teasing Bella Fayre ?
Grandmamma might have waited till I had
gone back to London before snapping you up
in this manner.'

There was more room here,' said Agnes, 'and
the vicarage was getting crowded.'

You see we have come after you, and this
cousin of mine who has deserted us for the
attractions of your society,' she said, turning to
Hamilton, half jestingly.

Was I not recommended a long walk, to
relieve the morbid character of my feelings,
engendered by bad news V Hamilton answered.
AVas it not impossible to sit still under affliction
and loss ?'

Ah ! poor Hamilton,' said Estelle, in pitying
accents, ' I am afraid, Agnes, you have found
him very dull and dispirited to-day.'

m2

No,' said Aggie, smiling, ' lie has borne up
against his misfortunes very well.'

After all, what loss is it?' said Estelle. 'If
my grandpa, Lord Redclove, has married
again, we have scarcely a right to call it a
misfortune, and Hamilton is above any selfish
considerations as to his own position. He '

Yes, yes ; but don't say any more, Estelle,
please,' he cried. ' Don't console me, for Go —
goodness' sake. You cannot realise what a
heavy loss I have sustained in being balked of
an ancient and glorious title, to which I have
looked forward from my cradle. You simpleminded
women,' he said, ' cannot understand the
height of a man's ambition, or the immeasurable
depth of a man's despair.'

He groaned, and then walked gravely round
the room with his hands behind him and his
head bent downwards.

Poor fellow,' whispered Estelle to Agnes, 'it
is a blow to him ; but mamma and I will be able
to console him presently. It is not as if any
loss to him would make any difference in
us.'

I do not think he requires any consolation,'
Aggie quietly remarked.

Ah ! you do not know him as we do. You
have not an idea how dreadfully ambitious he
is,' Estelle continued.

Perhaps not.'

But you heard him just now V

Oh ! yes,' said Aggie, quietly, ' I heard him.'

She had heard him with considerable astonishment
; she had seen, moreover, the mock
gravity of his demeanour, and the burlesque
assumption of his disappointment very clearly,
too, and Estelle Dangerfield had not. Estelle
had not lived in a sphere where jests flourished,
or eccentric humour was likely to be appreciated,
and lie believed in the misery which Hamilton,
for some absurd reason or other, affected to be
suffering from just then. Agnes did not like his
acting — his ' making fun,' as it were, of his own
ill-fortune — his taking her behind the scenes, and
letting her see at what a poor value he estimated
his cousin's advice and sympathy. She hastened
to change the conversation, to speak of P^stelle's
recovery, of the journey to London tomorrow,

of the pleasant holiday' it had been to Estella
away from her town residence and her mother !

I dread going back,' Estelle whispered ; ' it
is so terribly dull at home.'

You will have friends there.'

Yes, Hamilton will call again — he has half
promised me that,' she said, colouring, as she
whispered this important piece of news to Agnes ;
you remember, I told you I thought he had
had once a few words with mamma about me ?'

Yes, yes, hush ! Estelle please — don't talk of
him now.'

But I like to talk of him,' said Estelle, frankly.
You think too much of him,' remarked Aggie,

in a low tone, and speaking very quickly, ' and
no girl should do that, until she is quite sure the
man thinks too much of her. Why, Estelle, you
have talked to me almost as if you and he were
engaged to each other, and I have been led
almost to think so.'

I have told you the secrets of my heart,' she
whispered, with a sigh, ' but I can't read his.'

Don't try,' said Agnes ; ' wait till he comes
to read it for you, or till he goes abroad, and

you see he was not worth troubhag your head
about.'

Abroad ! Has he — has he said anything-about
going abroad ?'

A word or two, I think.'

Estelle turned very pale on the instant.

AVill you get me a glass of water, please,' she
murmured.

Agnes was quick to dash into the dining-room
in search of a glass of water ; she returned with
it to find the mother bending over Estelle, along
with Hamilton and old Mrs. Danger-field.

The journey has been too much for her ; she
is not well yet," said the grandmother.

It was the long walk,' said Frances Danger-field.


Walk — you two !' exclaimed the old lady.

Estelle was confident of her strength,' said
Frances ; ' and, of course, we should not think of
riding on the Lord's-day.'

Ah, I forgot that I' replied old Mrs. Danger-field,
abruptly.

•• I am better now,' murmured Estelle, as she
took the glass of water from her half-sister's

hand, and put her hips to it ; 'it was coming ont
of the fresh air into this hot room — that's all.
The walk has not fatigued me in the least.'

You must stop here to-night,' said the
hostess ; ' you must not expose her to any fresh
fatigue.'

Yes,' said Estelle's mother, ' if you will bear
with us for a few hours, and we are not intruding
on you too much, I should be very glad to
accept your invitation.'

There is plenty of room in this house for all
who care to come and see me,' answered the
old lady.

Then I hope you will find room for me, some
day,' said Hamilton, shaking hands with her
again, and boating very politely. ' Good-night,
I must get back to the vicarage in time for
prayers with Mr. Fayre. And tomorrow V

He looked at his cousin Frances.

To-morrow we shall return home, if all's
well,' she said.

Very good. You will require my escort to
town, of course?' he added, after a pause, looking
hard at the widow.

As you please, Hamilton,' Frances said, quietly
; * I did not think you had an idea of remaining
in Warwickshire.'

Of remaining in Warwickshire, no ; but of
going to town, to be harassed to death by all
the club-loafers, to hear their regrets, and their
jokes, and their suggestions — I don't quite see
it,' he replied, moodily ; * but still,' he said, with
a suddenness that was a trifle startling, ' I can
accompany you. Ladies travelling together are
not quite safe in these chivalrous latter-days,
cousin.'

'We can take care of ourselves, Hamilton,'
said Frances, with a fault smile on her thin lips,
so you will please yourself in escorting us to
London. To-morrow will be time enough to
arrive at a decision. Good-night, cousin.'

Good-night.'

Hamilton Redclove turned his back upon
Overcome, and set forth across the fields at
a smart pace, as if anxious to get back to
the house whence his friends had departed,
and the ladies, left to themselves, paired off*,
and changed partners, Frances Dangerfield

taking away Agnes Challis to a distant couch,
out of ear-shot of the old lady and her granddaughter
Estelle, who had settled down by
the fireside.

'Now, Miss Challis, a few more words of
explanation, to show I trust you and respect
you,' said young Mrs. Dangerfield, earnestly.

CHAPTER XVII.

'THAT TERRIBLE PAST.'

The difference in the manner of Estelle's mother
to Agnes Chalks was snflScientlv remarkable
for the younger woman to be anxious for the
reason of it. She waited patiently for the
explanation that had been promised her, replying
not to the words with which onr last
chapter closed.

I need not say Estelle knows nothing of
your past or of mine, and I am as anxious
as ever that she should remain in ignorance
of it,' the widow continued ; ' but don't mistake
me,' she added, quickly, as Aggie seemed to
draw herself up more stiffly on the instant. ' It

is not ray pride, but to spare yours, and for the
peace of mind of all of us, poor child I'

'Why do you pity me?' asked Agnes, curiously.


Because you are deserving of a better life,'
she answered ; ' because I would make you
my friend now, and I never, never can.'

Why, that is pitying me for the loss of yom*
acquaintance,' said Aggie, shrewdly, and a
musical little laugh escaped her that waited
somewhat on the susceptibilities of the widow.

I don't mean that,' said Frances Dangerfield.
You must not be too severe or too quick to
retort upon me, as you have done. I come in a
chastened spirit — I am not your enemy.'

No ; but you may be, madam,' was the
reply. ' It is more than possible you will be.'

'Why?' asked the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field,
slu-prised in her turn.

It will always be impossible for you to like
me, and it will be so easy to hate, presently,'
said Aggie, sadly.

Is it probable I shall hate the girl who saved
my child's life, and whom I have not thanked

from the fulness of my heart yet? ^Vhy
should hate follow the remembrance of your
courage V

I am her daughter, madam — and you can
never forget that, or forgive it,' said Agnes,
boldly.

Frances Dangerfield gave a perceptible shiver.

I have nothing to forget or forgive, so far as
you are concerned,' she said. ' I have seen my
pride in a different light to-day — and a goodman
has not shrunk from teaching me a new
truth.'

'Mr. Fayre?' said Agnes.

*Yes. I didn't know he was so earnest a
Christian,' she murmured. ^I did not know ni}^
own faults, until he showed them to me. I
have been wilfully blind until to-day.'

Is it at his request that you have come to
mew

It is at the promptings of a heart which he
has softened towards you. If I have been harsh
and ungrateful, Agnes, pray forgive me. I
have suffered much in my life, and am not the
woman I was.'

1 have nothing to forgive, Mrs. Dangerfield,'
said Agnes, taking the extended hand again.
I could hardly expect you to look upon me
Idndly. And you — ah I you helped to break
my mother's heart.'

Agnes Challis dropped the hand as she spoke,
and there was a slight contraction of the high,
white forehead.

^ You will understand me now, Agnes,' said
Frances Dangerfield, after a long pause, ' that,
had circumstances been different, 1 should have
been proud of you for a friend, and to see you
my daughter's friend.'

I might have been of help to Estelle ; she is
very Aveak, and I am interested in her,' said
Agnes, thoughtfully.

'Yes; but you will see how impossible it is
that any friendship can exist A\dtliout a terrible
secret escaping, and tarnishing the father's
memory.'

'And shocking the pride that is left still in
the mother,' added Agnes. * Ah ! madam, I
don't blame you,' she cried, as her listener
Evinced perceptibly. ' I should be proud, tocsin

your place, and, knowing so little of the
husband's life as you did. I — I don't think
we shall act unwisely in going our separate
Avays. The path we should tread together is
neither pleasurable nor safe.'

That is true,' the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field
asserted.

But the terrible secret you speak of may
escape without your help) or mine.'

I hope not — 1 pray not,' cried the mow.

For whose sake, Mrs. Dangerfield V was the
calm inquiry.

'■ For all our sakes. For my own — Estelle's
yours.'

Don't think of me in this matter — and don't
fear me. I have been on guard all my life.'

You are to be trusted,' murmured young
Mr. Dangerfield. * I have heard much of your
earnestness and faith, in Grayling — and you will
not '

'Pardon me, Mrs. Dangerfield,' said Aggie,
with sudden excitement, ' but you must not
bind me to a promise. I make none — I have no
compact with you, none whatever.'

1 cannot comprehend you,' said the amazed
widow.

I have a mission to fulfil.'

But you would not speak of the past again
you would not bring to light all those details
which time has set mercifully from us — you
have just said '

I have said " Don't fear me," Mrs. Danger-field
—that is all 1 can say.'

Mrs. Dangerfield the younger dropped her
voice to a still lower whisper.

Will you tell me in perfect confidence all
you suspect ? It may be in my power to
undeceive you. I know more of the history of
your erring father's life than you can possibly
knoAv.'

There is nothing you can tell me, with which
I am not acquainted,' replied Agnes, very sadly,
and there is much of which you have never
dreamed.'

I cannot credit that,' said the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield, confidently.

Well — well — we cannot discuss it together.
Estelle is looking towards us and wondering

what we are whispering about. Shall I leave

If you please. And if at any time I can be

you?

of-thank

you,' said Agnes, interrupting her,
and let me thank you also for your kinder feelings
towards me. 1 am grateful — I shall be
still grateful when you doubt me afresh.'

I shall have no cause to doubt you
again.'

Agnes Challis did not answer. She rose and
walked to the side of her half-sister, whom she
was never to acknowledge, and old ]airs. Dan-garfield
crossed the room to her daughter-in-law
Who, with her long thin fingers interlaced, had
already drifted into deep thoughts of her own,
from which the feeble voice at her elbow did
not readily arouse her.

You two have been talking of him,' said the
old lady, almost sharply.

Yes.'

'It is no use — no good — I tell you!' cried
the elder woman, With considerable excitement.


VOL. II. N

I know it, but Agnes Challis talks of the
past, as if I, whom it crushed, were ignorant of
its power; ignorant of the miserable truths
which make up that bitter story,' cried the
widow, querulously.

Let the truth lie with my dead son,' said the
old lady, solemnly ; ' part of it drove me mad
after his accident, and, coming back to reason,
I have hardly dared to face the rest. You
and she may have to do it when I have
gone.'

What is the rest V

1 will tell you before you go away.'

« We leave tomorrow.'

There will be time enough. It is a strange
fate that sets you and Agnes Chalhs in this
house together. I have been waiting for it all
these years.'

What is it you wish to tell me, that you cannot
tell me now '^'

Agnes is watching us,' replied old Mrs.
Dangerfield ; * she is a dear, good girl, but
she does not trust you or me much. Are you
tired V

'No.'

I will come to your rooms when the house
is still, then. Sit up for me.^

N 2

CHAPTER XVIII.

SISTERLY,

Young Mrs. Dangerfield was startled by the
suggestion of her mother-in-law. She was a
strong-minded woman in her way, but this sudden
proposition to call upon her, in her room,
when the house was still,' was scarcely an
agreeable idea. There was time enough tomorrow
for a conference — time enough surely —
and the matter could not have become suddenly
of any grave importance. If she had not called
to make friends with Agnes Challis, she
would have been allowed to return to town
without any communication on the subject, and
the mystery — if there wevo any — would have

been kept back from her for all time. She did
not believe in any mystery concerning her husband's
past ; she could imagine what a girl like
Agnes Challis might think, if the mother were
romantic and false, but of the truth of the story
she knew every bitter fact, from the beginning
to the end. The past she would avoid — she had
been years thrusting it aside — and she was only
curious to know what this strange old lady
wished her and Agnes Challis to do after her
death. To face all the truth she had implied,
as if the truth had not blasted her happiness
years ago, and aged her years before her time.
As if it were still lurking in the background,
biding its cruel hour to strike her down again,
when she knew — thank God ! — that it was forever
now impotent for evil.

The mother-in-law did not give her an opportunity
to suggest another time and place for the
conference ; she walked away from her, and rejoined
the two girls chatting by the fireside—
where the widow followed her. It was a
strange party of four — three women knowing
so much of a secret Which had influenced

materially their lives, and the fourth belonging*
to it, and yet completely ignorant of the story,
and suspecting nothing. To Estelle Danger-field's
life there had been no marvels — only dulness,
and monotony, and prayer-meetings — a
dead grey woof flecked by one blight thread
which she had woven-in herself, and spelt a
lover's name with very vainly. Well, it was
folly to be wise in her case, for what could
wisdom do but rob her of the one day-dream
she would ever have. Time enough for her
poor knowledge when the waking ensued in the
heat of that day in which no fragile hopes of
hers could exist. Her mother had attempted to
arouse her once, and the poor, faint effort had
half-killed the dreamer. It is not given to
every woman to be strong and wise and self-reliant,
and Estelle Alas singularly weak, and
vain, and childish, thought the mother. The
reader may think so, too, when this outline
sketch of womanhood deepens in colour on
our canvas.

The night wore on, and the hour grew late
before the four women separated. Old Mrs.

Daugei-field sat and listened to Estelle and
Agnes with evident interest, watching both girls
with such eager intentness that her daughters
feared that even Estelle would think it
very strange. Sitting side by side, Estelle and
Agnes were strikingly alike in height and
figure, and might have passed for sisters anywhere
— their fair hair was almost of the same
shade, Aggie's a trifle darker, perhaps, and only
fairly glittering with gold in the sunlight which
she loved. Here the resemblance ceased, for
Estelle was paled and plain, and her lack-lustre,
grey eyes did not compare favourably with the
brilliancy and depth of the hazel orbs of her
half-sister. Old sirs. Dangerfield remarked all
this, and a train of thought followed, born of
her observance, that took her at last far away
from present company. When she awoke from
her reverie, it was striking eleven — a late hour
for folk at Overcome to be astir.

So late,' she murmured, ' and you have forgotten
time, too, Agnes.'

It seems like it.'

I had no idea it was eleven o'clock,' cried

Estelle, * but time always passes swiftly with my
friend.'

The delicate hand touched Agnes Challis's
affectionately, and Estelle's face glowed with a
pleasure that was not common to it.

Do you remember how many scolding Mr.
Fayre has given us because we have sat up in
sour room and talked too much, and he could
hear our voices and laughter through the wall V
cried Estelle.

Is it so long ago that I should have forgotten
it?' rejoined Aggie.

Will it ever come again V
I don't know.'

*I don't see why it shouldn't,' said Estelle,
glancing at her mamma ; ' I have not come to
say good-bye for ever to the dear girl who
brought me back to life. That is not likely ; is
it, mamma?'

There is no telling what may happen in this
world,' said the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield,
sententiously ; ' Miss Challis may not care to
leave her friends in Warwickshire.'

Then I will come to Warwickshire again

some day— promising beforehand not to skate
upon thin ice, and frighten poor mamma with
telegrams, and bring her a long journey for nothing.
I often vdsh now,' she added, still with
Aggie's hand in hers, ' that I had known yon
years and years ago.'

Why?' asked Agnes.

I should have been a stronger girl — I should
have learned my lesson from you, and been less
apathetic and dull, and more of a companion to
mamma.'

You are a companion, Estelle,' remarked the
mother, emphatically ; * and I have missed you
very much.'

Yes,' answered Estelle, with a sigh, ' but, if
Aggie had been with me all her life, 1 think I
should have grown more like her. I should
have caught her manner, and grown up less of
a poor stick.'

Estelle !' cried the mother, peevishly, ' I
Avish you would not talk in this way. It is
undignified and ridiculous.'

Bella Fayi-e always called me " a stick " at
school, although l^ella likes me very much.

But,' added Estelle, more thoughtfully still, ' I
should not have cared for Bella to be a sister
of mine, as I have often wished that you were.'

Once more the hand of the widow's daughter
passed fondly over that of the girl's at her side,
and the mow was strangely moved to see it.
There was more affection shown by Estelle for
Agnes Challis than had been ever demonstrated to
the mother. Was there something more than a
girl's liking in this for Estelle's natural passiveness,
her imperturbability, to be so lacking
now ?

Agnes was very calm. She was a strong-young
woman, whose feelings were not likely
to give way at a chance word that struck home.

Sisters don't always agree,' she said, laughing,
' and are not always the best of friends.
We are better as we are.'

'Ah! you don't care for me as you do for
Bella, I know,' answered Estelle, with a touch
of her mother's jealousy in her tone of voice ;
but then you haven't known me so long, and
Bella is a bright girl, whom everybody likes. I
wish I was Bella Fayre.'

YoiT seem to wish to be everybody but
yourself this evening, Estelle,' said the mother,
reprovingly. ' How strange you are, child !'

Estelle sighed again, but made no answer.
Ashen Agnes rose, she sprang to her feet also.

Ai-e you going to your room?'

Yes. I am an early riser, you know.'

You might have asked me to share your
room to-night, as we used at dear old Grayling.
I have so much to tell you, Aggie — and tomorrow
it is good-bye !'

Agnes Challis looked at the mother, who said,
in a low tone,

I have no objection, if Miss Challis has not.'

Thank you,' murmured Agnes. Then adieux
were interchanged, and the taro young women
went out of the room with their arms linked
lovingly together. They passed into the diningroom,
where the portrait on the wall seemed to
look down upon them, and to smile at them as
they entered.

Estelle glanced up at it.

That is like my father — why, it must be he !'
she said.

'Yes — when tie was a very young man, I
believe.'

*I don't think mamma has seen this yet.
Shall I '

No ; I would not disturb her. Such a picture
might pain your mother even now,' said
Agnes, retaining the arm which would have
slipped away from her.

Yes ; poor mother ! — poor father !'

Ah, poor father !' murmured Aggie Challis.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE TWO :mrs. dangerfields.

The women left behind in the large drawing-room
sat very still and patient after the door
had closed on the half-sisters. The fire was
becoming hollow and cavernous, and the gilt
clock on the mantel-piece was tiling away
another hour, and yet neither woman moved.
Both were full of grave, earnest thoughts, and
there were tears in the eyes of the younger, to
whom tears had never risen readily', thanks to
her powers of self-repression.

Suddenly the withered hand of the old lady
touched quickly the stiff black dress of Frances.

Don't yon see the hand of Fate in this V she
asked.

No,' was the reply.

Yon are a deeply religions woman, and will
call it the finger of God, perhaps,' said the other,
almost mockingly.

There is God's hand everywhere. It was
His will that they should meet — for what end,
I know nqt,' murmured the Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield.

Why should they not be friends — even Avitli
this secret kept away from Estelle V asked the
old lady. ' It is natural, and Estelle wishes it.'

I should not know a minute's peace — a
minute's happiness again.'

I cannot see why.'

'Agnes Challis would part me and my child,
as her mother parted me and my husband.'

I don't believe it,' was the flat contradiction
proffered.

You do not know Estelle. Despite her constitutional
apathy, she has turned with a warmth
of affection to this stranger that she has never
shown to me.'

'Never I' echoed the mother-m-law.

They were strangers till they met at Mr.
Fay re's.'

It was the hand of Fate,' muttered old Mrs.
Dangerfield again.

There was another long pause ; then she said,
suddenly,

'You are an odd woman, Frances, to envy
your daughter one friend.'

Estelle is the only friend I have in the
world,' was the reply.

Then it is jealousy that influences you after
all V said the old lady, curiously.

My Avish to keep my child's love to myself
stands first assuredly,' Frances replied ; ' but,
without that, I would not have those two girls
friends for all the world.'

Ah ! well, well,' said the old lady, rising
slowly, with her eyes still fixed upon the fire,
your happiness first, and Estelle's second. I
think I understand.'

No,' said the other, ' don't think so. 1
would die to-morrow for Estelle's happiness,
which Agnes Chalhs has no powder to promote.'

I think she has.'

No,' said the other, very decisively.

The old lady approached her daughter-in-law
closely.

Is there a lover V
No.'

Some one whom she loves — hopelessly?' was
the next shrewd question.

Don't ask me, please,' entreated Frances
Dangerfield — ' I cannot speak of it now. I am
tired with my long walk — the hour is very late
and you have something to communicate
before we say good-night, you say V

Yes ; in your own room, not here.'

Unless tomorrow ' began Frances.

No, to-night,' said old Mrs. Dangerfield,
decisively.

Is it so very important, then V asked the
daughter-in-law, n nervously.

You have come here for the news. Destiny
has brought you.'

Are you a fatalist,' asked the younger woman,
' that you speak of Destiny and Fate so
much r

'That's it,' whispered the other, meaningly.

Was fee quite sane even now, thought the
widow, to talk like that and look like that?
She could have wished that their next interview
was for the morning rather than for the dead
of night — curious as she might be as to all which
Paul's mother had to relate.

Good-night — for the present,' the old lady
added, significantly ; * my maid Therese will
show you to your room ; it adjoins my own,
and I shall not have far to come.'

She touched the bell, and Therese, a sour-looking
young woman, with an expression of
having been kept up hours beyond her usual
time plainly visible upon her countenance, responded
to the summons.

Show Mrs. Dangerfield to her room, and
then come back to me,' said her mistress.

Yes, madame.'

Therese led the way through the diningroom,
where the picture hung of the husband,
and the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield glanced
at it without a tremor of lip or cycHd, although
lie had not looked at it since her husband took

VOL. II. O

her over to Overcome to see his mother in
their courting days. He was proud of his picture
then, and she was proud of him — the work
was bright With her, and she was a young girl
like Estelle. The contrast between the past
and the present might have moved her, but she
did not show it, and she went on with her
grave, stately steps after the maid, who might
be watching her, for what she knew to the
contrary.

It was a rambling mansion, full of shadow at
that hour, with a big, wide oaken staircase
leading to long corridors where their footsteps
echoed strangely. It was a house that at anytime
should have been full of light-hearted
guests to give life and cheerfulness to it, and
was wholly unfit for the lonely old woman who
had stolen hack and tried hard to call it home,
because it was like home to her when her son
Paul was living. Now it was like a vault, with
the open doors of empty rooms yawning ominously,
as the widow went along the corridor.

Which is Miss Challis's room T she inquired
of the maid.

We have passed it, madam e. It is the first
on the left as we turned.'

Estelle is a long way from me,' thought the
mother to herself.

At the extremity of the corridor they paused
and turned into a second long gallery, lighted
by an oil lamp swinging from the ceiling. At
the first door Therese stopped.

This is madame's apartment. My mistress
sleeps in the next.'

Madame's room was large and well-lighted
by wax candles, with a fire burning cheerfully
in the grate. Only the sombre brown hangings
to the widow and the bedstead quenched the
light a little.

Good-night, madame,' said Thereto.

Good-night,' answered the widow ; then she
sat down in a chair by the fireside, drew a small
Testament from her pocket, and began to read
With grave attention. It was her nightly custom,
from which she never swerved and of which
she seldom tired, though there had been nights
of weariness when it had been somewhat of a
struggle to take to heart the long chapters of

o2

faith and promise from which her life had
gathered some courage, if no cheerfulness. It
was a night of weariness then, for she had been
tried much that day, and had resisted trial and
advice, and succumbed, and all that hard fight
with her pride, and Mr. Fayre's exhortations
had tired her as much as the long walk which
she and her daughter had had. She read on
bravely and steadily until the hand relaxed and
the eyes drooped more and more over the small
text of the pocket-Testament, which finally fell
from her hand into her lap. How long she had
slept she did not know ; but the fire had burned
down, and the wax candles were less in length
by an inch or more, when she Awoke up with a
start, and a low cry of alarm at discovering old
Mrs. Dangerfield standing on the hearth-rug in a
long, black, trailing dressing-gown, with a hood,
like a nun's, drawn half over her withered face.

I did not. know you at first,' said Frances,
after a little struggle with her breath. ' How
long have you been there ?'

Ten minutes. You sleep soundly, Frances,
over your religion.'

It was the second taint which had escaped
the old woman since the widow had come to
Overcome, and Frances shivered at it.

I did not think I should have been wicked
enough to sleep over God's Word she said ; ' it
is not my custom.'

'Ah! well, the sleep may do you as much
good.'

You should not talk like this to me,' said the
widow, resenting the mother-in-law's remarks at
last. ' You are at an age when God's Word is
of great value to you surely — of great comfort?'


No, it is not. I am a woman with a heart of
stone.'

I hope not.'

I try to repent, but I still go on in my own
stern fashion to the end. What comfort can
religion give me when I have made up my
mind to that V she said, with her eyes flashing
in the candle-light from inter her grey brows.

But you '

There, I have not come to you for consolation,'
said the old lady, abruptly ; ' I am no

hypocrite, and I tell yon the truth in answer to
your question.'

But you distress me very much,' said Frances ;
all this is dreadful.'

Old Mrs. Dangerfield sat down in a chair that
was facing Frances, and said,

Don't preach to me, child ; you are not a
religious woman yourself.'

I am sorry for your bad opinion of me, Mrs,
Dangerfield.'

I cannot believe it ; you do not act like a
religious woman — you never will,' said the old
lady, thoughtfully ; ' there is the Redclove blood
in you.'

'You have not come to tell me this?' asked
the lady, fluttering with indignation. ^ She was
deeply wounded, now that her piety had been
questioned, and she took no pains to conceal the
evidence of it.

No, you are right,' was the answer. ' Let
me tell you what I have upon my mind, Frances,,
before I try to sleep to-night. Sleep is forgetfulness
of this world, and so a blessing which
seldom falls to my lot.'

The Honoiu-able Mrs. Dangerfield waited for
the explanation. She would not hazard further
comment lest her visitor should drift once more
from the subject which had brought her to that
room. There was a painful silence, for the old
lady seemed inclined to relapse into reverie
and there was no effort from the other to arouse
her. It was a strange interview between two
women who where stranger and weaker than
they thought.

The voice of the old lady broke softly the
silence at last.

The little that I have to tell you,' she commenced,
' and which 1 should have written to
you concerning in a few days, I shall tell Agnes
Challis before she leaves for Grayling. Thus,'
she added, as she leaned forward in a precise
business-like way, with one finger beating time
in the palm of the other hand, ' putting you two
on an equality to fight your battle out as best
may please you both, after I am dead.'

After you are dead,' repeated the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield.

Though I am not a religious Woman,' she

added, almost sarcastically, ' I have striven to
act justly, to atone for my mistakes and Paul's,
for all the mistakes which have followed one
false step in my son's life.'

Can you make atonement for his sins V her
listener asked, wonderingly.

He never sinned knowingly,' was the quick
reply; ' it was in his ignorance, I tell you.'

What do you mean V was the perplexed
cry here.

1 don't think you and Agnes will have
long to wait for the explanation,' said the old
woman. ' 1 leave it to you both, and it may bean
awful legacy for you.'

You cannot mean you think Paul '

I will not listen to you. I will not say. I
don't know the whole truth any more than that
girl downstairs,' cried the old woman, lifting her
arms wildly in the air for aii instant. ' I have
dreaded it too much. But when I am dead, in
Paul's room, looking on the park,' she said, suddenly
becoming calm and business-like again,
his little room, where all the books are, in the
great iron safe, of which I keep the key upon

my bunch, yon. and Agnes Challis will find a
packet of papers, and one copy of my will, of
which the second lies at my solicitor's, in Warwick.
Those papers you two women are to
read together, and in all charity and mercy
towards each other, if you can. They will
explain my will, which you will understand
more clearly afterwards.'

What papers can they be, Which. I have not
heard of until now, and which should be in my
possession by right of legacy?'

They were never intended for your eyes,
Frances. They were lodged at the house of
a friend of Paul's, at Chester, where Paul lived
once with Agnes's mother.'

At Chester!'

It was in endeavouring to obtain those
papers for her mother, along with other property,
that Agnes Challis was arrested, tried,
and sentenced to two years' imprisonment.
They were papers which belonged to the
mother, and yet which had got into oilier
people's hands, and were deposited for safety
with them.'

Deposited by whom V

I don't know exactly — I cannot say.'

Do you suspect Paul V asked Frances
Dangerfield.

I think it was likely Paul put them there, or
even Lord Redclove, or even the mother herself.
The fact never came out at the trial of
Agnes Challis, who was found one night with
that property in her possession, which she said
was her mother's, and belonged to her mother
which she had come to secure — and which
those who prosecuted her swore was theirs.'

How did she know the papers were there V

From the mother, probably,' was the reply.
It was a deep plot to obtain what she thought
was her rights from those who had engaged her
as a governess, not knowing who she was. The
mother would not move in the matter, had been
pledged not to move, I think, and Agnes Chalks
had sketched this plan out, and acted very
rashly, as it proved, for herself.'

Yes, very rashly. But '

Old Mrs. Dangerfield did not let her finish.

It was in her effort to see the mother, to

drag her from her sick-bel to the trial, as a
witness to the truth and honour of the daughter
to appear himself perhaps in her defence —
that your husband met his death.'

'My God!'

Agnes was condemned without a witness to
speak on her behalf; father and mother were
both helpless, and she would not say a word in
her owai defence.'

I do not see the truth now ; it is all very
dark and inexplicable.'

Ah ! it may drive you mad presently — it did
me,' said the old woman, bitterly.

The younger woman turned away from herat
last. She was sick at heart, and tortured by
a hundred doubts. The cruel truth seemed
very close upon her.

'That is all I have to say,' said the old
woman, rising ; ' it has been on my mind for
years. When I have told Agnes Chalhs, I may
feel happier. I don't know,' she added, with a
sigh ; ' but I may.'

She gathered her black gown around her,
wrapped herself in its folds, and went away

silently from the room, without another word,
like the grim Fate in which she affected to
believe.

Meanwhile, Frances Danger-field turned more
closely to the fire, clasped her hands together,
and looked steadily at the dancing flames. Yes,
she was very near the truth ; and it might
wreck her present, though she would not
believe it — never, never, never ! It would be
all part of a new plot, with her husband's
jnad mother in it, too, and acting against
her.

To think she should have ventured to this
house after all, and been lured into the trap set
for her discomfiture. She would have been
glad to feel indignant at this supposition, but
there was no anger at her heart — only a stony
horror, which lay at her heart's core like a
stone. She must wait, and bear it — wait for
this mysterious woman's death, even if in waiting
she grew grey and old, and full of stern
uncharitableness again. What was she waiting
for? The Testament slid from her lap into
the fire-place, but she was not aware of it.

The fire blazed and burned away, and grew
hollow and cavernous, and still she sat there
brooding.

CHAPTER XX.

Estella IS A LITTLE EXCITED.

Frances Dangerfield came down to breakfast
the next morning as calm and grave as though
nothing had dist-bed her peace of mind since
her husband's death. Agnes and Estelle were
on the garden-terrace with extensive wrappings
round their heads and shoulders — they were
laughing lightly as though they were far away
from trouble, and the widow watched them sadly
through the window glass. The wind had
veered roimd in the night, and the air blew
keen and frosty from the north once more.
Frances opened the French window.

Estelle, is it not too cold for you this morning
V said the mother.

Oh, no, mamma. The frost agrees with me

wonderfully,' cried Estelle ; then good-mornings
were exchanged, and the girls entered the
breakfast-room, flushed with exercise.

Your grand mamma is late this morning,' said
Agnes to Estelle, ' she has been a very early
riser since my stay here.'

She was up late last night,' said-the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield.

That should make no difference,' answered
Agnes, ' she sits up late as a rule.'

The maid Therese entered the room with
the same sour expression of yesternight. There
was another grievance on her mind now : — she
had had three times to perambulate long corridors,
and descend steep stairs with messages
from her mistress to the servants, and this made
the fourth commission with which she was
entrusted.

]\Iy mistress's compliments, and begs you
will excuse her attendance at the breakfast-table
this morning,' was the message formally
delivered.

Mrs. Dangerfield is not ill ?' asked Agnes at
once.

No, Miss Challis ; at least she says she is not
ill, and will be downstairs shortly.'

She Avill breakfast in her own room, then V
asked Agnes.

She will not take any breakfast at present,'
replied Therese.

You will excuse me for an instant,' said
Agnes, 'but I am afraid Mrs. Dangerfield is
unwell

'Shall I come with you?' asked Frances
Dangerfield.

It may alarm her; she is used to me,' answered
Agnes, as she hurried away, leaving mother
and daughter together.

I hope grand mamma is not going to be ill,'
said Estelle.

I hope not.'

We can scarcely leave the house to-day now,
mamma,' suggested the daughter, quickly,'

said the mother, very thoughtfully, ' it
would not be wise.'

Wise, mamma !'

It would not be kind of us, I mean.'

The door opened, and Agnes re-appeared with

brighter looks than when she had departed.

'It is nothing,' she said. *Mrs. Dangerfield
says it is nothing, and she will be with us
presently.'

Before breakfast was completed the old lady
came into the room, leaning on the arm of her
maid, and looked hard at each of her guests in
turn. She was a shade or two more sallow,
and the right hand shook a little, as it rested on
the arm of the chair into which she slowly relapsed.


I hope I haven't frightened you,' she said,
apologetically; 'I was tired when I awoke,
but the feeling has worn off now. I am not
going to die yet awhile, as you young folk will
see.'

She smiled grimly, as at a jest which was not
particularly calculated to promote general hilarity,
and then called Estelle to her.

You and your mamma will not run away
from me,' she said, very gently.

'Mamma has already decided on remaining
another day, grandmamma.'

Ah, has she V was the slow reply, ' I am not

VOL. II. r

sorry. You do not come very often to see me,
and the house is dull without a friend in it.'

< I have already remarked that it would be
hardly kind to leave Overcome if you are unwell,'
said Frances Dangerfield.

I am quite well ; but, if you will stay, I shall
be obliged to you,' replied the old lady.

I shall be glad to stay,' was the evasive
reply, ' if I can be of any service.'

Otherwise V interrogated the old lady.

Otherwise, I would certainly prefer to keep
to my original intention of departure.'

Old Mrs. Dangerfield nodded her head once
or twice , gravely, at the hearth-rug, as if considering
the answer which her daughter-in-law
had given her.

Stay to-day,' she said at last, and young Mrs.
Dangerfield assented.

Estelle, thinking but little of her grandmother's
ailments, we fear, gave a sigh of
pleasure at the ultimatum.

A reprieve,' she whispered to Agnes ; ' one
more day at Overcome together.'

The shadow stole to the face of the mother,

whose keen ears had heard this — the mother
whose ill-hick it was in life to be always discontented.
Estelle did not wish to return ;
there were no attractions at home for her. Away
from home, she was a different woman altogether.
Frances washed that she had started
for town before the day was over; there was no
object in remaining. Save a little extra drowsiness
at times, old ]airs. Dangerfield was welland
strong, for her years — and Estelle was too
happy ! She did not envy her daughter's happiness,
perhaps, even if it was at the expense
of her owuj though the old anxiety, the old, odd
fear of losing her daughter s love oppressed her ;
but she would be glad to get away. AMiat was
she staying in Warwickshire for ? — lest the old
woman should die, and Agnes Challis see the
papers first? — those papers which she dreaded
her seeing — heaven knew why — for she did not
believe that morning that there was any further
revelation shadowed forth therein. The night's
fear had passed away with the night's darkness.
She was almost sure of that, when she called
her pride to her aid, and looked back at the

p2

past, when she was Lord Redclove's daughter ;
there was only a fitful toulon, now and then, as
she glanced at the lined face of the woman in
the chair. Probably old Mrs. Danger-field wa
still a little mad, she thought.

CHAPTER XXL

:\IORE CONFIDENCE.

Frances Dangerfteld did not go back to london
that day, or the next, or the next ensuing.
The old lady drooped suddenly at times, and
then as suddenly rallied ; she was not ill, but
she kept her friends watchful, and it was evident
that she was not her usual self. Every morning
she asked her dead son's wife, as a favour, to
remain another day, and Frances assented, and
appeared by degrees to become reconciled to
her new position at Overcome Park.

I don't want a doctor,' said the mistress of
the house, ' only friends about mc ; they will
restore mc more quickly.'

She had taken a fancy to Hamilton Redclove's
society also, and that young gentleman was
very constant in his attendance, and interested
to an extraordinary degree in the state of the
old lady's health. He was always in wonderful
spirits, too, and, when he railed against his own
ill-luck again, it was in so burlesque a fashion
that even Estelle at last saw that he was jesting.

For a while then — alas ! it is only for a while
in this world of cross-purposes — there were
pleasant days and happy hours. Mr. Fayre and
his daughter Bella drove over in their humble
pony-chaise to see their friends, and inquire
after the old lady's health ; and there was often
a quiet little party of an evening in the ,
with old ]airs. Dangerfield very bright
and chatty towards the small hoi's, when life
rekindled in her marvellously.

Very shrewd, too, was the hostess. Once
when Doctor Middleton of Grayhng looked in
quite accidentally,' she said, after he had gone

Who asked that man to come and see me V
I confess,' said Agnes, demurely.

It was like your impudence, child,' said the

old lady, not unkindly ; ' but there was no
necessity to send for him. Did he not say so V
'He thought you were looking fairly well
Agnes replied.

Could you not have seen that for yourself f
inquired Mrs. Dangerfield.

Yes. But his opinion strengthens ours, and
takes a weight from oiu' hearts.*

You are growing a flatterer, Agnes. Who
has been giving you lessons, I wonder V

Mr. Redclove has been flattering her all the
afternoon,' said Bella Fayre; 'I know he has
by her blushes.'

I deny the imputation,' cried Hamilton, with
a faint exhibition of colour on his own cheeks ;
it is impossible to flatter Miss Challis.'

'Meaning she deserves all the components
which you pay her V inquired Bella, saucily.

Meaning, Miss Fayre, that she will not take
a compliment without believing the giver of it
is laughing in his sleeve.'

He glanced meaningly at Agnes, whose turn
it seemed to look confused. There was more
meant by this than either she or Mw Kedclove

cared to acknowledge to general company ; and
one Avoman turned pale for an instant, as with
a sudden envy that had seized her. It was
Estelle's first suspicion, first experience, perhaps,
that she was as jealous as her mother ; and life
seemed suddenly to become a terribly depressing
affair.

She became, almost against her will, very
watchful of Hamilton and Agnes Challis ; and
once, when late in the evening he spoke to
Aggie, bending so low over her that their heads
nearly touched, she felt her sad little heart
stabbed sharply again.

When the two 2:irls were in their room that
night — it had been a long, weary, never-ending
night to Estelle — Agnes was startled by her
companion suddenly flinging herself into her
arms, and weeping bitterly upon her shoulder.

My dear child,' cried z\gnes, soothing her as
one might soothe an infant in distress, ' what is
the matter f

I am wretched — dreadfully wretched,' Estelle
cried ; ' I wish I was dead and out of the
way for good.'

For what reason V

Hamilton does not love me,' she exclaimed ;
I see that now ; I have been a blind fool too
long.'

You are rash, Estella'

He is falling in love with yon, and yon know
it,' cried the other, indignantly.

It will be a sad instance of unrequited
affection, then,' said Agnes, laughing very
unaffectedly.

You don't like him V was the eager question
here. ' Say you don't like him, and I'll try to
believe you.'

On the contrary, I like him very much.'

But you don't really — love him V

'Not in the least,' answered Aggie, confidently
; ' what should I see in that man to fall
in love with, even if he were my equal — even if
he came down from his grand world to patronise
me exclusively?'

You would not have him V

Assuredly, Estelle, I would not have him.'

I thought everybody would like my Hamilton,'
she said, drying her eyes very quickly now,

and I am afraid I have made a sad little silly
of myself to yon. It was all through that wicked
Bella Fayre ; I shall never like her again.'

That would be hardly just to poor Bella,'
Agnes remarked.

Bella meant something,' said Estelle, very
feverishly still ; ' Hamilton has said something
to you that you don't like to tell me. Ha ! I am
right — 1 am sure of it. You are blushing !'

You ask too many questions, Estelle,' said
Aggie, looking down.

Will you tell me what he said f
No,' was the firm reply, * never.'
Estelle's countenance changed again after the
refusal of Agnes to satisfy her curiosity as to
the dialogue which had occurred between her
and Hamilton Redclove. All the light went
out of it, and left it in so much gloom and
misery that Agnes thought at once, ' If a great
trouble ever come to this girl, it will kill her.'

And ' this girl ' — to Tvhom she had been drawn
by a tie of kindred impossible to acknowledge,
whom she had begun to love, in whom she saw
a being almost as isolated as herself, and traced

ill her a ruling fault that was strangely like her
own — was to be studied and soothed in childlike
fashion, surely ?

When Estelle had withdrawn to a chair by
the side of the toilette-table, Agnes followed her
and put an arm round her neck caressingly.

I cannot tell you what Mr. Eedclove said,
Estelle,' were Agnes's words. ' He spoke upon
a subject that was painful to me, and, finding
that he had hurt my feelings unintentionally, he
was anxious to apologise, and to be perhaps
extra courteous by way of reparation.'

I don't understand what subject you two
can have to discuss of so much importance,'
said Estelle, moodily.

It was not of importance to him, and therefore
I resented it. It was not his business — he
was too curious and officious.'

Have you quarrelled ?'

Oh, no.'

And you will not tell me V Estelle said again,,
persistently.

I will tell you as much as this,' said Agnes,
and then you must not worry me any more. I

have a past that I keep to myself, and don t
care to look back upon ; and I see a future
before me not too bright, and not wholly free
from anxiety. Past and future are for my own
consideration,' she added, ' and for no one else's,
and I resent all comment on them. Do you
understand me now V

I think 1 understand. But, Aggie, he shows
a great interest in you by talking of your past
and future. He,' she added, with a long sigh,
never speaks to me of mine.'

It was an accident that brought about a few
ill-considered words,' said Agnes, speaking very
rapidly ; ' he is not interested in me. I am nothing
to him in any way, and, I say again, he is
nothing to me''

Estelle's face brightened once more at this
assurance. She did not attempt to disguise her
satisfaction ; she drew the face of her unknown
sister down to her, and kissed her gratefully for
the explanation.

I am for ever indebted to you for speaking
out so plainly, Aggie. Bella Fayre, in your
place, would have only teased me and told

me not a v^'ord ; but you seem to know my heart
so well.'

You have let me read it very easily ; and, my
dear Estelle, there is so poor and undignified a
story in it.'

What do you mean by that V asked Estelle,
almost sharply again.

< You have told me a great deal of your love
for Hamilton, but nothing of his love for you,'
replied Aggie. 'You have given him your
heart, not knowing that he will ever care to
accept it. You have let your mother see, and
possibly you have let him see, how much you
like him.'

Oh ! no ; he has never seen that,' said
Estelle, very positively ; * he would not dream of
such a thing, unless he loves me in return. And
I think — he likes me,' she added, dubiously,
and that in time, and if no one step between
us, he vnll ask mo to become his ^^dfe.'

'Don't dwell upon that fancy, Estelle— and,
for mercy's sake, be a prouder woman. There
is danger in it else.'

I have made up my mind to have him,' said

Estelle, firmly; 'and you know that when a
woman makes up her mind in this way, it generally
comes about.'

And to the woman's misery, if the man has
never loved her,' answered Agnes.

That would not matter to me,' was Estelle's
excited answer, ' so that he was mine — and safe
from other women. Oh ! Aggie, I could love him
if he hated me.'

My poor girl, this is madness, not loves said
Agnes, pityingly, as her arms tightened instinctively
round her.

Well — there is madness in the family, you
know,' was the defiant answer.

Hush ! — hush ! you must not talk like that,'
said Aggie, 'or think like that. You are too
weak, Estelle.'

What have I had to keep me strong? — what
life have I seen ? — what people have I known
but mamma and Hamilton T

Well — there's Miss Challis,' said Agnes, drily.

Ah ! if I had only known you earlier,' cried
Estelle ; ' for you are strong and wise, and I
love you, Aggie, so very, very much.'

Thank you — thank you,' said Agnes, quickly
; ' but I am neither strong nor vise —
simply a jealous, heritable woman, when there
is anything to be jealous about. You have
only seen my company manners, recollect'

If you could only come back with me and
mamma— if my home were yours — if you did
not seem to hold aloof from all of us — if
you did not like Bella so much better than
me !'

There, there,' said Agnes, as to a child again,
let it content you that I like you much better
than Bella, and that I shall never forget you in
all my life again. That I am very anxious about
you, and would be glad to stand between you
and these wild thoughts of yours more often if
I could.'

Why can't you be my friend — companion —
sister V

Because your mamma would resent my
interference, and does not regard me as her
daughter does,' was the reply — ' because in
sour house I should not know any happiness or
peace.'

You do not like my mother f cried Estella
with more shrewdness than her native seemed
to warrant.

Or yom mother does not Hke me — which V

Ah ! she is a good mamma,' said Estelle,
sighing, ' and yon would love her very much if
you knew her thoroughly.'

Think more of her, then, and less of Hamilton
Redclove. Do try, for the mother's sake, as
well as for your own.'

*You do not think Hamilton cares forme
at all? I suppose that is what you
mean. '

1 have had no opportunity of judging.'

'But what do you think f she asked, *you
have seen us together — you have noticed
how he looks at me when he silks to me
how often he comes to my side — how kind
he is !'

Your Sanity must not take every little look
and word for love, Estelle — you have been ill,
and people are always more kind and gentle to
the invalid.'

You will give me no comfort,' murmured

Estelle Dangerfield ; ' not a scrap of comfort

Or false hopes — what good are they?'

They will keep me alive,' cried Estelle —
for, take them away — take him away — and
what's my life worth ? You had better have
let me drown last week — a hundred times better
— than have saved me for such misery as
this !'

Here ensued another burst of passionate weeping
that amazed and alarmed Agnes, and that
remained in terrible evidence of the weak nature
of Estelle.

You must be calm, dear,' cried Agnes ; ' you
arc not strong enough' for this excitement, and,
pardon me, this folly.'

Bear with me, I shall be calmer presently
entreated Estelle.

But the calmness did not come till a late
hour, when Estelle had almost sobbed herself to
sleep. Hers had been a Hfe of considerable
self-repression, the prosaic, every-day routine of
a vain, semi-religious, plain young person, nth.
her intellect not highly developed, and her
heart abnormally enlarged — and to give way

VOL. II. Q

like this was something of a luxiuy, after all.
Before her knowledge of Agnes Challis, she had
not sought for sympathy ; she had not received
any even from her mother, who had guessed
her secret, and given her religions consolation,
and completely failed, because she had given
no love and trust nth it, and had quietly
ignored the fact of a Dangerfield's being low-spirited
enough to evince affection where affection
was neither sought nor desired.

Estelle's last words that night reverted to the
old theme, to which she could not return too
often.

Did you say, or did I dream it, xlggie, that
you Avould not marry Hamilton, even if he were
to ask you T

I marry him ! Certainly not.'

How wonderful it seems !' she said, in tones
of such wonderment herself that the musical,
rippling laughter of the stronger girl welled
forth despite her.

You take life lightly — you look at things
lightly, Aggie — I wish I could be as happy as
you,' she sighed.

There, sleep now. We are talking all the
night away.'

I know !' cried Estelle, with a sudden inspiration
that brought her on her side to look
intently into the pretty face of Agnes Challis,
whom she startled a little by her impetuosity.
I know Why you would not have Hamilton.'

Indeed !' was the quiet reply.

Because you are in love with somebody else.
There !'

No, I am not.'

Because there is a man you care for elsewhere.'


Not at all.'

Ah ! you will not own it to me.'

Agnes seized her opportunity of pointing a
moral again.

'I would be too proud to love any man before
I was sure he was ready to love me,' she
said.

*Yes, that is all very well — in theory,' remarked
Estelle ; * but I think there is some one
somewhere to whom, if he asked you to become
his wife, you would answer " Yes." '

q2

There was silence after this for a while, and
then Estelle said,

Do tell me. Is it not so V

I think there is one man, Estelle, to whom I
should not have the heart to say " No," ' was the
slow confession here.

There, there, I knew it,' cried Estelle.

Out of gratitude,' she added, sadly ; ' because
he understood me, and had faith in me when no
one else had.'

Gratitude is only another name for love,'
said Estelle, sententiously.

After which wise aphorism, she dozed quietly
off to happy dreams, if the smile upon her lips
were any sign of pleasure in her slumbers.
Agnes Challis looked at her long and earnestly
as she lay there — so white in her sleep that one
might have thought her a figure chiselled out of
marble. She leant over her, and kissed her
lightly on the forehead — this one strange link
of love and kindred, whom she could not help
much, and who was too weak to help herself.


^ My poor sister !' she murmured, as if the

foreknowledge of all that was to come fell
athwart her heart in that hour, like a gift of
prophecy.

CHAPTER XXII.

LES Miserable.

The company still lingered at Overcome Park
by special request of its mistress. Day after
day the old lady entreated her guests not to
desert her, and the objections to remain grew
less with young Mrs. Dangerfield as time went
on. There were no ties in town; even her
father, who had vomited her feelings by concealing
his marriage with Miss Polly Islington,
late of the Opera-pratique, was at Brighton
with his baby, and it was fine, bright, bracing
weather down in Warwickshire. The air of the
place agreed with Estelle, thought the mother,
and the daughter Alas certainly a different being

here. The lauguicl character, the apathetic
tone, and the strange indifference to everything,
perhaps everybody, which Estelle had frequently
exhibited in London, were absent, and it was
possible that society — even such tame little
society as this— was doing good to the
daughter.

Agnes ChaUis might be the ruling agent to
dispel the morbidity from which Estelle had
suffered, and Frances Danger-field had learned
to trust Agnes, if not to like her ; or Hamilton
Redclove — taking life easily in Warwickshire, as
though his future were secure, and there was
nothing to grow anxious about, calling everyday,
and constituting the place so much his
home that after an hour or two's absence,
certain people began to wonder where he was —
might be the cause of the wonderful change in
her daughter. Might he not be slowly awakening
to the fact that Estelle would make him an
excellent wife ? — that he was almost bound ingratitude
to love her, for that unselfish affection
which she had so unwittingly betrayed. If this
could only be, thought Frances; if, after all, it

should end in this way, she would be thankful
for the impulse, uncharitable as it was, which
had brought her into Warwickshire. She was
fearful of disturbing the position of affairs no^\^,
and it was for her daughter's sake, not the
mother-in-law's, that she assented every day,
with a gentler degree of suavity, to defer the
hour of her departure. She was not at Ilver-
combe now as a foil to Agnes Challis ; she was
not waiting to defend herself, or to fight her
battle, as had been hinted, with this protegee;
fear and suspicion did not keep her there,
watchful and vigilant, and prepared for all that
might happen in the house. She would have
gone to toAvn, if Hamilton had not been more
than commonly attentive to Estelle, if Estelle
had not been — perhaps for the first time in her
life — supremely happy, suddenly, if the world
had not changed with herself in so extraordinary
a degree that she could imagine she was
changing with it, too.

Hamilton was no * catch ' now for a matchmaking
mother ; but Frances was happier in the
prospect of his proposing to Estelle than she

Lad been for many years. Hamilton had influence,
Lord Redclove had official friends of the
first degree of magnitude, she herself was far
from poor. The Warwickshire air and Warwickshire
frosts agreed with her, and she thought
nothing of a walk across the fields to Grayling to
hear Mr. Fayre's sermons, to talk with Mr. Fayre
afterwards on matters sublunary, lunary, and
parochial, as he walked homewards with her,
when his ministerial duties would permit. She
had come to Grayling, despising the man for
what she had considered his duplicity, and she
had discovered beneath his eccentricity and airs
of austerity a man of high honour and deep
religious feeling, whose life was spent in consideration
of the wants of his flock, and whose
only ambition was to do good and see good
done. He had taken her to task, and reproved
her as she had never been reproved before, and
her pride had flashed forth at him, and some
hot words had escaped her. But since that
period they had been better friends. He was
almost her adviser now, and she could speak to
him of Agnes and Estelle, and be thankful for

assuring words, Avhen she confessed one day to
him that her pride and fear were both in favour
of keeping the half-sisters still apart.

That is the opinion of Agnes, as well as your
own, perhaps V

Yes.'

I don't agree With it,' he added, his brow
furrowing a little ; ' mystery is not in my hue,
and a slight accident at any moment may show
what hypocrites we all are. For I am in this,
too,' he added, with quaint lugubriousness.

You seem to know more of this pitiful story
than I do.'

It is as well not to talk of it, or we shall get
quarrelling again.'

You were too hard with me on that day we
walked to the village,' said the Honor-able Mrs.
Dangerfield, ' you were very merciless.'

On the faults which were making your
character, yes. You deserved every word of reproach
I conveyed.'

You said my religion was a sham,' said
Frances, indignantly.

So it was ; it was telling you what a noble,.

devout, unselfish Christian you were, and you
were nothing of the sort. You Avere the very
reverse of it all. Don't you see that.'

Well, I can hardly own it all at once !'

For the first time since her widowhood
Frances Dangerfield broke into a little musical
laugh, and the hard-featured minister laughed
with her. They were certainly getting excellent
friends, and Warwickshire was a county
that improved on the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field's
further acquaintance with it. The world
even was not such a wicked place after all ; and
there were good people in it, if one rummaged
about in odd corners.

It was after a week-day service on which this
dialogue occurred, and Mr. Fayre had leisure to
see Frances Dangerfield part of the way home.
He went all the way ; but about half a mile
before the journey was accomplished, and over
the last bit of meadow land, before they struck
into the high road, two figures were seen
sauntering side by side, and advancing in their
direction.

Friends from Ilvercombc, coming on to

Grayling, perhaps,' said the vicar, 'I am somewhat
short-sighted, but I think I recognise
them.'

It is Mr. Redclove and my daughter,' said
Frances.

Indeed,' replied ]Mr. Fayre, drily, « I am very
sorry to disturb them.'

Oh ! they are old friends.'

To be better friends presently, I have a
shrewd suspicion,' said Mr. Fayre.

I don't know yet,' answered Frances, slowly.

The distance decreased between the couples,
and an illusion vanished upon a closer approach.
The young folk advancing were not Hamilton
and Estelle, but Hamilton and Aggie Chalhs.

CHAPTER XXIII.

HAMILTON IS AGGRAVATING.

It had been a chance meeting between Hamilton
and our heroine, although to the Honor-able
mrs. Dangerfield it was a matter for grave
speculation — even for excitement — for many a
long day afterwards. She seemed suddenly to
awake to a new phase of existence, a new perplexity,
a fresh trouble, and once more the half-open
door of her heart shut tightly against the
woman whom she had striven hard to like, for
her child's sake. She thought she had almost
grown to like her — at all events, to respect and
pity her — until the fact that it was she in
company with Hamilton Redclovc stirred her

blood suddenly, ass at a discovery that was
inimical to her peace and antagonistic to Estelle's
chance of happiness. Was this the reason, she
thought at once, of Hamilton's stay in Warwickshire
— of his indifference to business in town — of
Agnes Chalhs's sojourn at Overcome ? Did
those two, as the phrase runs, understand one
another so completely as to seek each other's
companionship clandestinely, to be apart and in
hiding from those Who might comment upon
their friendship, or intrude upon their confidence ?
And, yet, was it possible that Hamilton could
sink his pride so low as this, knowing what
Agnes Challis had been, and how the world's
verdict would never completely acquit her ?
Was there enchantment in the girl, to be the
centre of so much discomfiture to everyone about
her ? to bring within her spell, despite her birth
and shadowy antecedents, even the high-born
man who had been the coldest and least impressionable
of human beings until he had met
this mystery in his way ?

All these thoughts flashed to the mind of
Frances Dangerfield, as Hamilton and Agnes

'Challis advanced — it was a mind, despite all its
training, quick to distrust. In a lower sphere,
brought up badly,' and with no religion to back
her, Frances Dangerfield would have been a
social failure. She was hardly a success in life
as she stood.

Appearances were deceptive, and against the
young couple. They were talking very earnestly
; they had completely failed to observe Mr.
Fayre and Mrs. Dangerfield approaching them.
Agnes was looking on the ground, was certainly
blushing, and Hamilton's dark eyes were fixed
intently on her face. When they were all close
together, Agnes Challis was certainly surprised
and embarrassed, although Hamilton was cool
enough for two to make up for her.

Good morning,' said Hamilton, ' you are
going on to the park?'

Yes,' said his cousin, laconically.

I must have been a-head of you by a field
or two all the while,' he continued ; ' although,
if I had not turned on meeting Miss Challis,
I should have been at Ilvcrcombe by this
time.

You are going to Grayling, Agnes V asked
the vicar.

Yes.'

Your clients have been clamouring for you
lately.'

I fear I have neglected them a great deal,'
said Agnes. ' I shall be glad when I am back
again at the vicarage.'

And I am glad to hear that,' was Mr. FajTc's
reply.

A few more remarks, and then there was a
movement to separate on their various ways.

You will turn nth ics, Hamilton,' said the
Honourable ]airs. Dangerfield, with stately gravity,
' and if Miss Challis will excuse you.'

I have no wish to detain Mr. Redclove,'
answered Agnes ; ' I cannot introduce him to
our poor parishioners — they would weary him
too much.'

I am going part of your way, bliss Chalhs,*
he said, very politely, but firmly — ' aimless,' he
said, in a lower tone, ' you expressly interdict
my going.'

Agnes was about to answer, even sharply, as

though the question at that time had displeased
her, when the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield
passed on, saying,

We shall see you presently, then, Hamilton T
Yes,' he replied.

Thus they separated, and it was observed by
all three that the Honourable Mrs. Danger-field
had only indirectly acknowledged the existence
of Agnes Challis that morning.

Hamilton Redclove commented upon this
Avhen he was walking by the side of our
heroine again.

My cousin is in one of her unamiable moods,'
he said. ' She has been to church ; the minister
has talked shop all the way to Overcome, and
the overdose of religion has soured and disturbed
her.'

She did not appear to me unamiable,' answered
Agnes, 'but surprised and confused at
meeting us. You are not coming with me much
further, I hope ?'

'Why not r

'1 am not used to so grand an escort — it
embarrasses me.'

VOL. II. B

You have put up with it once before,' he
remarked, quietly.

'Yes; but I was not taking you out of your
way,' she repel ; ' and, frankly, on this occasion,
I do not want your company.'

They had become very good friends, and
Aggie's habit of speaking out plainly was not
in any way likely to be restrained.

Thank you,' said Hamilton, drily. ' Is there
metal more attractive, in the shape of a mysterious
swain, hereabouts — some one who maybe
patiently awaiting the approach of his
divinity, in the shadow of the hedgerows?'

I don't think you have a right to ask that
question,' said Agnes, very quickly.

'No, pardon me, I haven't,' he said, very
quickly, in reply.

They were silent after this, and Hamilton
frowned at the grass, and made one or two
vicious cuts at it with his walking-cane.

What the deuce were we talking about when
those two came up ?' he blurted forth, at last.

About Estelle.'

We had exhausted that subject.'

I think not.'

You had sing eternally to her praise and
glory ; she was the dearest young woman in the
world, in you* opinion,' he remarked — ' I wonder
for what reason ?'

I like Estelle.'

It is natural you should,' he said ; ' and
Estelle is a very nice girl, and I like her, too.
I always did — as a cousin; but, for heaven's
sake, don't say anything more about her to-day.'

I only want to say good-morning now, if
you will allow me to dismiss you.'

Then I will not allow you,' Hamilton answered,
very firmly.

You will not !'

No ; I haven't half-finished what I have to
tell you.'

b2

CHAPTER XXIV.

NOT QUITE HIMSELF.

Agnes Challis stole a timid glance towards the
companion by her side. His manner was new
and decisive — albeit a spice of aggravation, of
his old obstinacy, appeared to be lurking in the
background.

What more can you have to say to me V
she remarked, with an equanimity he did not
perceive was forced in any way.

Oh, heaps of things ! I'll tell you in a
minute,' he replied.

But he remained very dumb after this
assertion, and walked on, gravely considering,
perhaps, what these ' heaps of things ' might be.

I — I should like yoii to overtake Mr. Fayre and
your cousin,' Agnes said at last — * you could all
alive at Overcome together.'

What a changing triumvirate !' he cried,
scoffingly — ' the parson, the prude, and the
prig.'

Hamilton was in a sour mood now — he was
not at his ease or at his best — and Aggie's determination
to get rid of him was far from consolatory
to his feelings. He hardly knew why,
but it was not.

If anyone else had said that of you.'

*I am a prig,' he continued; *I have arrived
at that conclusion. Miss Challis, by slow and
miserable degrees.'

What is a prig V

In Whitechapel it means a pickpocket ; in the
dictionary, a " pert, conceited, saucy, pragmatical
Httle fellow." '

And that is your definition of Mr. Hamilton
Redclove V

It is awfully near the mark. Since my fall
from greatness, I have approached the character
very closely. I should have never guessed it if

my uncle had died before Ms second manage,
and no one would have hinted the fact to the
new nobleman.'

'Your change of position is beginning to
affect you,' Agnes remarked. ' You are not sa
pleased with it as son that Sunday when 3'ou
brought the news to overcome !'

Perhaps I am a trifle more unsettled, and
less heroic,' he replied. 'I was going to
fight the world and do wonders then, but I
hardly like the look of the world so much as I
did.'

'I am sorry to hear you say this,' said
Agnes, regarding him with grave interest ; ' I
did not think you were a man to give up very
quickly.'

I have nothing to give up,' he said, laughing
suddenly ; ' my balance at my banker's is
too small for a sacrifice , and in this new sphere
of mine I have not met the friends I expected.'

Did you expect misfortune would bring you
friends?'

'It is not the usual rule,' he said, very
thoughtfully, ' but yes, I had that idea.'

Indeed !'

Not that friends would have done me any
good, or I should have been any good to my
friends he added.

Do yon not consider your cousin and Estelle
friends?'

Estelle again, by Jupiter !' he exclaimed
angrily.

You remind me of her by your words.'

'Are you an advocate for cousins marrying ?'
he asked, with a suddenness that startled his
companion.

1 have not studied the question,' answered
Agnes.

May I ask, in confidence, if you would advocate
my manage with Estelle, supposing Estelle
were one day willing to accept me V

Yes.'

Even if I were not willing to accept Estelle,'
he added, bitterly.

Estelle would make you a good ife, under
any circumstances,' answered Agnes, 'but I do
not like to advise. I — I hardly care to be taken
into your confidence.'

It is a mere supposition, don't think anything
more of it. I shonkl not have spoken in this
way, if '

He came suddenly to a full stop, and Agnes
said,

'If what?'

If you had not worried me about that estimable
young woman,' he continued, ' as though
you were specially elected to advertise all her
accomplishments.'

'I will not won you again. AVhat a distance
we are from Overcome I'

Are you afraid to trust yourself to me V

« Oh, no.'

Tell me something more of Estelle,' he said,
mockingly.

No, I shall not.'

Estelle will tell me something more of you
when I return.'

I am afraid the theme will weary you.'

Agnes wished she had not said this, but the
words had escaped her before she had considered
them sufficiently.

*No,' he answered, in so strange a tone

that she could not comment upon it, and,
for the first time, her heart leaped strangely.
She wished he would turn back — if he would
only go away now — if she could only summon
courage to say very plainly he must leave her !

Estelle and you have become great friends,'
he said, reverting to the objectionable topic of
his own accord, to Agnes' sui-prise ; * and I am
very glad of it.'

Thank you.'

Still, may I give you a word of warning
concerning her V

Of warning V

She is a good girl, of an amiable and affectionate
disposition, but don't make her your
confidante. Miss Challis. Never was a young-lady
so ill-constituted to keep a secret.'

That is severe on Estelle.'

You were good enough a short while since
to communicate to her the fact of your engagement,'
said Hamilton, coolly ; ' I believe no one
in Overcome is unaware of it now.'

]\Iy engagement ! — mine !' exclaimed Aggie,
ill her astonishment.

Yes. You are engaged to be married, surely T
he said.

I am never likely to marry, sir.'

But did you not tell Estelle that there was
some one — who '

And then Hamilton felt unable to complete
his sentence, which was remarkable in a young
man who prided himself upon his self-possession.

I regret that Estelle has spoken of me at
all,' said Aggie, a little indignantly, ' and detailed
a silly conversation which we have had
together. I did not speak of an engagement —
I had no thought in my head of marriage — heaven
forbid ! — I simply implied that there was
one man who, if he liked me, and came in search
of me, and had set all his heart upon me, I
should feel bound in honour to accept.'

" Out of gratitude," I think, was the term.'
Agnes Challis was no longer the heroine after
this. A fine exhibition of temper, we are sorry
to assert, as faithful chroniclers, displayed itself
immediately.

Have you two been talking this over V she
cried; 'how foolish of her to tell you I— how

unjust of you to listen ! — how ungentlemanly to
repeat it here to me !'

Hamilton Redclove was fairly dismayed at
her vehemence.

I have said I thought I was a prig,' he answered,
ruefully ; ' upon my soul, I am sure I
am now.'

You had no right to talk of me in this way
to talk of me at all,' cried our heroine, still
appeased.

I have offended you V Hamilton Redclove
said, earnestly.

Yes — you have !'

I did not think you would take this to heart.
I did not even think you wished to regard it asa
secret, knowing Estelle's inability to keep
one,' he remarked.

'You are right— it is no secret,' said Aggie.

And I am forgiven V

Yes — and if you will go home now, please,'
she replied.

Miss Chalhs, you expect to meet a friend, en
route, this morning.'

Well, yes,' Agnes Challis confessed at last.

Hamilton Redclove's countenance lowered in
real earnest.

I Avish you had been as frank with me as
yon generally are,' he said, ' and I would not
have bored you with my company so long.'

Aggie Chalks was womanlike in replying.
I begged you to go more than once — did I
not?'

Certainly you did,' he said, ' but I was a
dullard, and did not read your anxiety correctly.
I did not know the great friend, the particular
one, was so near you as all this.'

ind who is my great friend V

Daniel Overdown,' he answered, quickly.

She was silent.

Is not that true ? — pray tell me,' he urged,
with a sudden Warmth.

'Yes,' she answered, 'quite true.'

CHAPTER Xxi.

A SHARP BREEZE.

Two memorable walks across the green fields
of the fan Warwickshire country had Hamilton
Redclove and Aggie Challis taken in their lives ;
they were both to be looked back upon for all
time — this one with much regret on both sides.
For each, in turn, was uncharitable and harsh,
and each forgot what it would have been wisdom
to remember.

Hamilton relapsed into his moody fit after
Agnes Chalhs's avowal, but he walked on at her
side, utterly unmindful of her oft-repeated wish
that he should return to Overcome. He had
forgotten that wish as though it had never been

spoken — he had forgotten everything — his next
remark would be proof positive that he had
forgotten himself, and the respect due to his
companion.

You might have chosen better than that,' he
said.

'What do you mean?' asked Agnes Challis,
as the colour deepened on her cheeks.

I think,' he said, almost savagely, ' that a
journeyman gunsmith in a Birmingham backstreet
is hardly fit for you.'

think you are not justified in insulting me,'
cried Aggie.

I do not insult you, ]\Iiss Challis,' he said, disinclined
to give way too readily on this occasion,
' you asked mo what I meant by a preceding
observation, and I have answered to the best
of my ability.'

I do not envy your ability, then, Mr. Red-clove,'
said Agnes, ' and I deny altogether your
right to comment upon my friends'"

As Agnes Challis betrayed more excitement,
Hamilton Redclove relapsed into a cool condition
that was hard to comprehend, and that was

particularly aggravating to the warmer party.
It was this old character from which he had
emerged of late days — that spirit of vexation
and intolerance which had driven his uncle
frantic occasionally, and alienated him from
many Who might have loved him for his better,
higher native, which he took on occasions
like the present the most scrupulous pains to
conceal.

He was polite, and cold, and hard now — ' a
superior being,' without a ring of sympathy in
his voice or at his heart— and Agnes ChaUis bit
her lips in listening to him, and fancied that she
was learning rapidly to hate him.

You vdW allow me to state. Miss ChaUis, that
1 have not hazarded one comment upon the
character of Mr. Daniel Overdown of Birmingham,'
he said. * I should not feel Warranted in
expressing an opinion upon those many virtues
which he undoubtedly possesses, to entitle him
to the preference you have shown.'

Agnes regarded Hamilton Redclove very
steadily — it was possible that her quivering
red lips betrayed even a little scone of him before

she answered. He thought they did,
and the expression stung him, though he
did not betray the pain he felt at witnessing
it.

In my estimation, he is above all men,' she
said. ' Why should I be ashamed to prefer him
to the rest of the world V

Happy gunsmith ! ' said Hamilton, ironically.


Unfortunate gunsmith, if he should ever
take it into this head to prefer me,' answered
Aggie, ' if he has come to Grayling for that
purpose.'

Still '

I will not hear another of your sneers against
him — or listen to your mockery of compliment,
sir,' cried Aggie, very warmly still, ^ if you do
not respect me, I claim the right of your
respecting a better man than yourself.'

Comparisons are odious,' said Hamilton,
and this comparison is especially odious tome.'


The truth is not agreeable to everybody,'
answered Aggie.

I think I would prefer a lie from the lips of a
pretty woman.'

Yon will excuse my lying to oblige yon — if
I am the pretty woman in question,' was the
saucy answer.

I accept your apology — you ^^dll allow me to
apologise in my turn.'

For what V

For forgetting again your natural anxiety to
be quit of me this morning. I am not generally
so, persistent with my company, when it is distasteful
to those upon whom I have intruded.
And once more, and before I say good-morning,'
Hamilton added, raising his hat with great
formality from his head, ' let me assure you I
have in no way attempted to disparage the accomplishments
of your best friend.'

My best friend — yes,' was the reply. * One
who never pained me by a cruel word, or
thought how easy it was to insult a defenceless
and unhappy woman.'

His face changed colour at last — Aggie
Challis was too much for him, or else he had
foolishly leant to think too much of Aggie
VOL. II. S

Challis. If he had been playing a part, the part
had failed him suddenly, although she lead
turned from him without observing his discomfiture.
He was not aware that he was standing
like a man rooted to the ground, that he was
conscious at last that in his foolishness he had
for ever set her against him, and that he had
said things which no woman of spirit could forgive
— unless she loved him ! Which was

o

never likely to be, although the wild fever-time
of love and passion had been close upon
himself.

Agnes Challis went on without looking behind
her — without looking before her, for the
tear-mists had risen to her eyes, and were
gathering very fast there. The storm was over,
but the rain of grief had come, and heavy sobs
of mortification and woman's wounded vanity
were escaping her, as she passed, as in a
miserable dream, over the green fields. It
was strange that Hamilton Redclove in hot
impulse should overtake her at the side of the
lake where she had saved Estelle.

]\Iiss Chalhs, I am extremely sorry '

The he drew a deep breath of astonishment
and horror at her tear-swollen face, and gasped
forth, ' Aggie ! — I did not think— I did not
intend For God's sake forget the meanness
I have been guilty of to-day.'

Don't follow me — don't say another word tome,'
cried Aggie in her distress, ' I cannot bear
it.'

I will go, bat pray forgive me — try to do
that !' he cried, as he turned away again at her
request, and went on with swift strides towards
Overcome.

He did not look back again, or he would
have seen ' the happy gunsmith ' fast approaching
from the opposite direction — a thin, darlc
man, with an earnest, eager outlook, as if for the
love he had been long apart from.

Our heroine would have passed him in her
blind sorrow, had he not stopped her, snatched
at her hands, and called forth, in a tremulous
wail of joy and bewilderment, her name.

Aggie,' he cried, ' it is you surely ?'

Yes, Dan, it is I,' she answered, making an
awful failure of her first smiles of welcome.

s2

'And in tears ! In great grief, girl. Tell me
how that is ? 1 — I don't like to see this.'
Patience, Dan — give me a little time.'

CHAPTER Xxvi.

the BEST FRIEND.'

Daniel Overdo wn respected Agnes Challis's
appeal ; he was silent immediately. He would
Avait for her to speak and explain ; there was no
hurry, and he was not naturally an impatient
man.

Agnes was not in the mood to observe very
closely, or the contrast — that ' odious comparison
' against which Hamilton Redclove had
already protested — between the two men might
have suggested itself painfully and advisedly
to the last comer on the scene. Daniel Over-down
was in his best suit, which consisted of
an ill-fitting black coat, a black-velvet Waistcoat,

and a pair of white ' diickw,' singularly
unseasonable for winter wear, and wonderfully
white ; these, with a blue-satin necktie, formed
his tout ensemble for the occasion. A low-crowned
felt hat, of the 'billycock' type, also
may be added to his wardrobe, and this he
had pulled very much over his brows — indeed,
down to his eyebrows — the wind being fresh
that morning. He was a young man still —
on the best side of his thirties by one year —
but he looked a far older man in the daylight,
where his sallow count entice and sunken eyes
told of hard work, or of a hard struggle to
get work on the terms of that irrepressible
society which will not let masters have it all
their own way. He was even lined a little,
and he had grown a thinner man "since our
first acquaintance with him in a Derbyshire
village, when railway mismanagement had
wrecked him for a season, but the same brisk
step, quick, bird-like glance, sharp voice, self-possessed
air still marked the demeanour of the
man we have so long lost sight of.

'Did you come to Grayling this morning?'

Agnes asked at last, and in a tone that seemed
to imply her wish to start the conversation
from that point, and allude in no way to the
bygones. She had dried her tears, and was as
brisk and cheerful as it was possible to be in so
short a time since ' the showers.'

Xo ; late last night,' said Daniel, looking''
intently at her. ' I wrote my letter, posted
it, and followed it.'

You are not busy just now, I suppose, Dans
she asked.

Not busy at gun-making, certainly, or I
should not have been here in work-days. But I
wanted a change — I had business this way —
and — I wanted to see you !'

What a time since we have met, Dan T

Yes, isn't it V he rejoined. ' But I must say,
Aggie, you have been very good and punctual
With your letters and your news. Never a post
late — always on the Saturday has been the
letter which you promised once a week to write
to me. What a business woman you would
make ! — and how your letters have kept a fellow
from nesting down in Pressed Street ! You

don't know — of course, you can't think — how
much comfort I have found in that needle-Hke
scrawl of yours, which told me old Dan was not
forgotten.'

His voice grew husky suddenly, and Agnes
Challis wondered why a feeling of dismay, an
odd kind of heart-sinking came across her, and
rendered her faint. It was so, but she had been
tried much that morning, and there was no
getting over it at once. She was glad — very
glad — to see Daniel Overdown, but she would
have been gladder to be quiet for one half-hour,
to be alone for just that little period of time,
and think out all that had been said and done
that morning since her start from Overcome.
She was almost certain that she was half-afraid
of Daniel Overdown, and of what he might say
in the course of the next few minutes, and his
earnest, steady stare at her was like a warning
of another trial to her feelings before Grayling
village was in sight.

What business did you tell mc you had this
way V asked Aggie, Avithout commenting on his
last remarks — indeed, with an effort to dart
away from them.

I did not tell you the nature of the business,'
said Daniel, still surveying her steadily, ' but ita
little dispute at Woodley Moor with the colliers
and their masters, and I thought I might
be handy on the side of the men.'

Oh, dear ! — another dispute, Dan V

'Another seasonable and sensible agitation,'
replied Dan ; ' you don't think I would be mixed
up with an unfair movement V

You are never at peace, Dan.'

Because oppression is never at rest,' he
answered — ' because capital is always fighting
hard to keep honest labour in the dust — because
' He stopped, and broke into a laugh.

By George ! I was getting on to the platform,
and addressing " my friends and fellow countrymen''
I had quite forgotten what a small,
unappreciative audience I had got here.'

Go on, Dan ; I like to hear you talk,' said
Agnes, quickly.

My old dad used to say " I liked to hear
myself talk," ' said Dan, drily, ' and I don't want
you to say that, too.'

'Tell me how you have been getting on —

what you have been doing since I left Prosser
streets inquired Agnes.

There has not been much change in my life,'
he replied ; ' what yon saw of it before yon went
away is what followed after yon had gone. I
have been made foreman at Edge wick's, and
risen in the world some ten shillings more a
week — but I wrote to you about that.'

Yes.'

'If it had not been for our debating club, I
should have gone melancholy mad after you had
left me,' he continued. 'Father and mother,,
and then you— it was a desolate affair, Aggie
but politics and trades-unions pulled me together,
and my pals were always wanting
advice, and kept my head clear, even if my
heart was a bit bothered about you.'

You need not have bothered about me, Dan,'
she said ; ' I have been getting on famously,
and everybody has been very kind to me. Tell
me about the strike at Woodley Moor.'

I don't mean I bothered about your being-treated
well or ill,' he said, paying no attention
to her inquiry concerning the strike. ' You

were sure to make friends ; men and womeji
Avill always like Aggie Challis, and see something
in her different from the general run of
girls.'

Would Yon try to turn my head with flattery,
when yon know I have always hated it so
much?' she asked, almost petulantly.

Flattery is not in my line, and I only say
what I think,' was his blunt reply ; ' but I know
you dislike compliments. I have done.'

Thank you, Dan. Xoav tell me '

Stay a moment,' he said , interrupting her ;
you and I haven't put ourselves out of the way
to hide the truth, and it's no use, Aggie, pretending
an interest in strikes, or even in me just
now, in order to keep back questions that must
come — that I am here to put to you, and which
are not Av^orth postponing. Between you and
me, child,' he said, very earnestly and tenderly,
there has been always perfect confidence, and
your new friends haven't persuaded you that
that sort of thing must be all over now.'

Aggie looked down to hide the tears which
had risen to her eyes again.

'No, Dan,' she answered.

Well, then, tell me about yourself — your new
life, your grand friends, the people round you
at Grayling and Overcome. Tell me not so
much of the happy change that this has been
to you from Prosser [Street — the change that
was necessary, when the old folks were gone —
but of the little troubles, or the big ones, that
have fallen to your share, despite it all.'

Troubles ! Have 1 written to you as if I
had any V

'No. But the Dangerfields had come to
AVarwickshire, and they are an unlucky lot, and,
to my mind, care would come with them. AVas
I wrong V he asked.

Yes.'

Daniel Overdown's brown hand rested on her
arm at once.

Wholly and entirely wrong, Aggie ! You
tell me this V

Care has hardly come with them. Estelle I
have learned to love, and the mother, who began
by suspecting me, has lately asked my pardon
for her distrust, and spoken to me as a friend.
Until to-day '

Ah I there we have it, girl — until to-days he
cried. ' Vv^hat has happened to-day V

I — I can't tell you that,' Agnes murmured,
remembering what and who had been the subject
of dispute between her and Hamilton Eed-
clove.

'Why not?'

It could do no good she replied, ' it might
not interest you to hear, and it would deeply
pain me to relate.'

It would interest me to hear, whatever it
was,' he replied, * but if it would pain you, why
there's an end of it. I am not your father-confessor,'
he added, with a shrug of his shoulders,
* and I have no claim upon you.'

• Ah I my dear old Dan,' she said, affectionately,
you have every claim upon me. You were my
first real friend, and you made all other friends
for me — my life has been of your shaping, and
your honest example has kept me strong and
honest too. What would have become of me
without you V

Oh ! there was old Fayre,' said Daniel Over-down,
' and — and a score of people amongst

whom Fayre would have soon found a patron
or a friend for yon. Drop that, Aggie, please,
if yon have nothing to tell me. It's too late in
the day to talk of gratitude.'

Still I am grateful, Dan.'

Then you have precious little to be grateful
for,' was his short answer.

As if I did not know letter,' she cried. ' As
if I have not heard of your kindness to my
mother — of your promise to her when she lay
dying — of your unselfish efforts to find friends
for me and Sam, and, failing in that endeavour,
to become the best and truest friend of all.'

That is your idea.'

Yes — certainly.'

And yet Aggie Challis does not trust her
best and truest friend,' he added, drily.

I do — I do I' cried xlggie.

I meet her in tears — in terrible grief, such as
I have never seen her show in Prosser Street —
and she offers me no explanation,' said Daniel
Overdown, very mournfully. ' I see her part
with a young fellow over there by the water,
and I notice he is in trouble too, or shams it,

unci I feel there is a mystery in this which she
does not care that I should know. And yet I
am the best friend.'

I did not think yon could be ever hard with
me,' said Aggie, ' but the world is changing
and nothing is the same to-day. He Who parted
from me a short time since has been kiiid
and courteous during his stay here, but he lias
said very cruel things to me this morning.'

Damn his impudence. Oh I I beg your pardon,
xlggie — but, confound the fellow! — what
right has he to talk to you? Who is he V

'His name is Hamilton Redclove.'

What ! Lord Redclove's nephew ? who came
to Liverpool and gave Sam two hundred
pounds ? That man V

Yes, that man.'

I am curious now,' Daniel Over down confessed
; ' why should this man turn from friend to
enemy V

He is not an enemy, Dans Aggie hastened to
explain ; ' on the contrary, when wo first met,
betook great pains to assure me he behoved in
my past, that he trusted in mc as EstcUe's half-sister,

and lie was altogether kind and frank
with me. But to-day he was ungenerous, and I
I could not bear it from him.'

Daniel Overdown took his hat from his forehead,
and swung it to and fro in his right hand,
like a pendulum.

Pooh !' it strikes me as unaccountably warm
to-day for a sharp frost,' he said. ' How long
has he been in this part of the country ?'

About a fortnight. He came with young
Mrs. Dangei*field on the day Estelle met with
her accident.'

Only a fortnight V said Dan, putting his hat
on again, and considerably relieved in mind,
and he can't believe in you for a fortnight,
after all'

'He does not doubt me,' said Aggie;
he has only a — a nasty habit of saying sharp
things which he does not mean — which I am
sure he is sorry for afterwards — but which are
none the less painful to receive, or to think
over.'

'AVhatthe devil has he been sang?' muttered
Dan ; then he turned to Aggie, with a face

inch brighter, and said, ' I can understand you
Avould not like to repeat any hard words that
escaped him, and which, if he's a gentleman,
he will apologise for when he sees you again.
And now let us change the subject. Often have
I given you a bit' of apology myself for talking
at you. Not quarrelling, mind you — not saying
shai-p things to wound your feelings — you and I
being never likely to quarrel in all our blessed
lives.'

God forbid, Dan.'

He shook hands with her once more, and she
went on across the fields with her hand in his,
for he had not felt disposed to let it go again,
and she did not like to withdraw too readily
from any sign of amity, or of new confidence,
between them.

How far is it to Grayling now V he inquired.

Not more than half a mile,' she answered.

That's a short look-out,' he said ; ' I think I'll
postpone what I have to say to you till evening
for I have something to say presently, and I
don't want you to feel frightened or scared, but
to take the matter coolly, and answer coolly,

VOL. II. T

and as openly and fearlessly as you have ever
done to me.'

She felt his hard fingers tighten upon hers,
and once more the sickness stole to her heart,
and the light in all the world grew suddenly
very dim and grey. She withdrew her hand
slowly from his, and said, sadly,

AVhat time shall I see you this evening,
Dans

You will be busy in the village for an hour
or so, I suppose V

For an hour or two. Yes.'

I shall take the next train to Woodley Moor,
then, and get back some time after dark. I will
call at Overcome.'

x\gnes was startled at the suggestion. Daniel
Overdown of Prosser Street, Birmingham, a
visitor at the great house of Overcome Park
seemed a little odd at first, but still he was her
friend and Avould be welcome. Hamilton Red-clove
would surely not sneer at him there — and
old Mrs. Dangerfield would respect him as a
friend of hers — and, after all, it would be as well
if he came. Seeing her in her new grand home

might give him new thoughts, and lead him to
panse in that proposition which she feared — ah !
yes, she feared — was on his mind. This was to
be a memorable day of excitement for her from
its beginning to its close.

CHAPTER Xxvi

A REPRIEVE.

Agnes Challis and Dan Overdown walked onside
by side, and, as if in unconscious imitation

of Hamilton Redclove, the gnnsinitli became
suddenly reticent and thoughtful. AVas it something
in her manner or in what she had said,
she wondered, that had pained him, and brought
that puzzled look to his grave face ? AVas she
to be ever a mystery, bringing trouble to those
who were interested in her, and whom she would
have regard her as honest and straightforward —
as she thought she was at times, as she prayed
always that she might be.

He was the first to break the silence by
saying,

Perhaps you do not like the idea of my
coining to Overcome, lass. If so, I '

Oh, yes, I do,' she said, interrupting him ; ' I
shall be very glad to see you and Sam, and so
will all the rest.'

'All the rest,' he said, laughing suddenly.
Ah ! that will not be so easy to believe. But
if you are glad, Aggie, why, hang the rest of
them.'

I shall expect you at Overcome, then. That
is settled, Dan.'

Certainly it is.'

And you will come as early as you can V
she inquired.

To be sure.'

What time may I expect to see you V

Oh, some time after ten ; or after one of
your late dinners, I should have said,' he added.
'' I am always forgetting what a swell you are,
Aggie ChaUis.'

I am only Mr. Fayre's housekeeper — here on
a visit till young Mrs. Dangerfield goes home,'
was lier reply to this.

Only a housekeeper !' he said, laughing.

Ah ! that is not much to be proud of, is
it?'

And I am not proud.'

'No, I don't think you are,' he answered, a
little doubtfully, ' in that Avay !'

He walked with her into the village, where
he shook hands With her long and heartily,
and with something of the old steady stare
in his dark eyes, as if her manner still perplexed
him.

I shall see you this evening. If '

He paused, and then went on again.

And, if we can talk together quietly, it will
be all the better. Such company as I shall find
at Overcome is not much to my taste, although
I flatter myself I can hold my own against
them pretty well, Aggie,' he said, shaking his
head conceitedly.

The guests will not trouble us. We can
talk in peace of the old days,' said Agnes.

Of the new days, Aggie, beyond this,

where How pale you are !' he cried,.

breaking off in his rhapsody.

I am not quite well to-day,' she said ; ' I

have come over faint more than once unaccountably.'


It is to be accounted for by what that fel —
but never mind. Look here, Aggie,' he said,
suddenly, * you're not quite yourself. I — T
think, after all, 111 come round to Overcome
tomorrow morning instead.'

It was a reprieve to her, and possibly she
showed that it Alas so, too readily.

Yes, that would be better,' she answered,
almost with alacrity.

You'll have time to get over all this — to be
prepared for me — to think of what I am going
to say,' he went on, hurriedly ; ' yes, that's
best.'

^ I — I don't understand.'

Ask the old woman — I mean the old lady
whom you are with — what I said to her when
she called on me at Prosser Street,' he said.
There, that's a fair warning, Aggie. I do
nothing in an underhand way, you see. Goodbye.'


He had turned red and white and red again
during these last words, which were delivered

at a railroad pace, after which he darted away
from her, and went quickly along the village
street, and out of her sight.

There was no necessity to ask old sirs. Dan-garfield
what Daniel Overdown had said to her
in Prosser Street, when a wish to find Aggie
Challis had taken her to Birmingham ; it had
been told Aggie months ago, and months ago
she had known that the gunsmith's happiness in
life was centred upon her. She had been glad
and sorry together at hearing this, and she had
resented somewhat warmly the grandmother's
comments upon it, and her worldly warnings of
the ill-match it would certainly be ; but there
was no atom of gladness at her heart now. She
Alas sure of that by the dead, dull feeling thereby
the sense of misery which oppressed her,
and took all gladness from her; by the consciousness
that she was like a woman in a maze,
knowing not which way to turn, or in what
manner to act. She AA'as sure she was grateful
for the extension of time which had been acceded
to her, and relieved in mind to know that
she was not to be called upon to-day for an

answer to Daniel Overdown's proposal. There
Avonld be time to sleep upon it, to weep over it,
to pray for a clear judgment concerning it.
Till to-moiTOw she was free at least.

CHAPTER Xxviii.

IN THE PRIVATE ROOM AT THE ' LION.'

Daniel Overdo wn was not back in Grayling,
till eight in the evening, when the night was
very dark, and thick flakes of snow had begun
to drift across the darkness. He had finished
his business at Woodley Moor, conferred with
his brother-delegates, and addressed a mob of
men a trifle more hot-headed and unruly than
he had ever had the pleasure of haranguing
before ; and now he had time to think of his
own affairs a little, and to wonder how the great
purpose of his life would end. He was not quite
certain ; he had never been a sanguine man ;
he had not in all his hfc addressed a word of

love to Aggie whilst she ^ys.fi in his father's
house ; he had seen her very grateful, very affectionate,
and always gentle ; day after day for
five years had she been his friend and companion,
the light of the poor little home wherein
he had sheltered her, and shown his faith in her,
until the time came when his parents died, and
the two were alone in the world. He might
have married her then, possibly, but he did not
ask — did not hint what was hidden in his heart.
He sent her away to Mr. Fayre's, intending to
leave her to Mr. Fayre's care till he was better
off, and she had seen the world for herself, and
possibly some one in it better than he was ; and
fortune, good or bad, had brought about more
changes than those for which he had bargained.

He was inclined to regard this world a little
moodily, now that he had made up his mind to
the great plunge, now that it had struck him
Aggie Challis had seen quite enough of the
world without him ; now that he had seen her
again, and, as he thought, detected a difference
in her for which he was not able to account.

With these thoughts in his mind, he walked

into the parlour of the ' Lion ' at Grayling, and
pulled the bell for refreshment, before he Alas
aware of the presence of a gentleman, who was
monopolising all the warmth of the fire by sitting
immediately in front of the grate, and
bending over it with his hands spread out to
the blaze. Daniel's entrance into the room, and
his noisy tug at the bell, did not arouse the
student from his reverie ; and it was only when
the gunsmith walked to the fireside also that he
looked vaguely and apathetically at him, as at
a being who had disturbed his thoughts, but in
whom he was not in the slightest degree interested.
Daniel Overdo wn recognised him at
once. It Alas the gentleman whom he had seen
with Aggie in the fields that morning — it was
Hamilton Redclove, the benefactor of 'the Chastises,
the man whose harshness had made Aggie
cry, and Avliom in his heart he did not love
somehow.

Hamilton did not know him. He looked at
the fire again, and twisted between his teeth a
cigarette that had gone out half an hour ago,
and left him unconscious of the fact ; presently

he forgot him altogether in his fresh application
to the study of the blazing coals.

Daniel Overdown took off his hat and overcoat,
and drew a chair to the fireside also. The
movement was again attracting Hamilton's attention,
but leading to no exhibition of courtesy,
and not to an atom's worth more room for him.

It's a cold night,' said Dan, suddenly.

'Yes, it's cold,' responded Hamilton, thus addressed,
but not looking at the speaker.

And is that why you take up all the fire, Mr.
Kedclove V asked Daniel, with a good-tempered
laugh.

Hamilton looked at the gunsmith very attentively,
and Daniel did not like the look, and
felt disposed to resent it, until he thought of
Aggie again, and of this man being one of her
friends.

T have not the honour of your acquaintance,'
said Hamilton, loftily ; ' but probably you
will allow me to inform you that this is a private
room.'

This is the only room they have at " The
Lion." '

I believe it is.'

When I put up here this morning,' added
Daniel, ' the landlord informed me it was at my
service.'

^ In my absence only,' said Hamilton, still
surveying the fire, while arguing the point of
position with the new-comer.

He said nothing about you,' retorted Daniel,
very sharply.

He did not expect me to-night,' said Hamilton,
' but he will explain when he comes in. I
don't wish for a controversy, my good man, but
simply for your absence.'

He took the cigarette from his lips, and
dropped it into the fire ; then he appeared to
screw himself further away from his companion,
whose presence had become obnoxious
to him.

I thought you were staying at ]mr. Fayre's
house,' said Daniel (Jverdown, unabashed by
the other's demeanour, ' or up at Overcome. I
hardly make out what you want at the " Lion*'
away frown your friends — but that's your business,
not mine.'

Hamilton once more veered round in his
chair, and closely scrutinised his tormentor,
seeming not to miss a button of his waistcoat, a
crease in his white ' ducks,' a fold in his blue tie,
before looking into his face.

'Is your name Overdown 'f he asked, with
great deliberation.

Yes; that's it.'

You are a friend of Miss Challis V

Certainly I am. " Her best friend," she calls
me,' Dan added, with a chuckle of supreme
satisfaction.

Hamilton continued to stare at him, as at a
prodigy or monstrosity which he had encountered
late in life.

'I am glad we have met,' he said at
last, pushing back his chair from the central
position on the hearth-rug ; ' come to the
fire, Mr. Overdown, I shall be glad to speak to

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE RIVALS.

Hamilton Redcloye was very much surprised
at the personal appearance of Daniel Overdown,
but he did not betray his astonishment. He
had expected — he could not tell for what reason
a tall, handsome man, With a something in his
look, or mien, or dress to exalt him alcove the
class from which he had sprung, or to account
for the preference Which agnes Challis had
shown him, and for the love which a man like
this had contrived to secure. He had fancied
Overdown was a tall, good-looking man, when
he had caught a flying glimpse of him on the
stairs of his cousin's house some years a*2:o.

But that was all fancy, lie could see now. He
was terribly disappointed in Daniel Overdown ;
it was already beyond his comprehension why
this man should stand first in the regard of the
girl with whom he had quarrelled, and who was
influencing his life more deeply than his pride
would allow him to confess. He had come to
the private room he had bargained for at ' The
Lion' to brood on the events of the day, to
analyse, if possible, his own motives and his own
heart, and here across his path had arisen the
spectre who had the power to mar his whole life.

He tuas glad to meet him, too. Here was a
complete death-blow to all the romance he had
been disposed to foster; he could not regard
that ill-dressed, blunt-speaking mechanic as a
rival, even though, for poor Aggie's sake, he
would try to consider him as a friend. Yes,
poor Aggie, he would say again, if this were
the hero of her love-dreams, and she had no
ambition higher than becoming this man's wife
this man's drudge, perhaps !

When did you ariivc at Grayling V asked
Hamilton.

VOL. II. U

This morning.'

You have seen Miss Chalhs V

'I met her crossing the fields — she wrote
to me that she was coming to Grayhng to-day,
and I went to meet her, as in duty bound.'

'In duty bound? — ah, yes,' said Hamilton, 'I
understand.'

He produced a cigar-case from his pocket,
opened it, and tendered it to Daniel, who shook
his head at the contents.

Thank you, I prefer a pipe when I smoke,'
he said ; ' but, when there is anything particular
to do or say, I like to keep my head clear.'

Smoking muddles it, then V asked Hamilton,
lighting a cigar for himself.

I think it does.'

But you have nothing particular to say tome
V said Hamilton.

Oh, yes I have.'

Indeed — you surprise me !'

Hamilton did not evince his astonishment iu
the quiet puffs at his cigar which he was taking,
and which Daniel OverdoAvn was closely observing.


YoiT are aware I am Aggie Chalcis's friend V
said Daniel. ' " Her best friend," she calls me,
and I am proud of the title.'

I hope yon deserve it,' was Hamilton's quiet
observation.

I hope I do,' said Daniel, after a moment's
consideration.

And will continue to deserve it ?' added
Hamilton.

Eh ! — what do you mean by that ?'

The best friend of Miss ChalKs, in my humble
opinion, is he who considers her happiness
before his own, and will not allow any selfish
thoughts to interfere with it,' Hamilton expounded.


Exactly ; that's my opinion, too I' cried
Daniel, with great heartiness. ' I am glad, sir,
you understand me so well.'

Hamilton did not understand Mr. Daniel Over-down
in the least, and he might have politely
hinted as much at this period, had not the gunsmith
added, quickly,

I see Aggie has been talking about me to
you — she is a good girl, who is not ashamed of

u2

the past, and of those who have teen kind to
her in it. She is what I call a grateful girl.'

'Yes; intensely grateful. But,' continued
Hamilton, thoughtfully and slowly, ' a considerate
fellow would hardly make his past kindness
a claim upon her, or seek by its means to bind
her to any promise she may have rashly made
him.'

Daniel Overdown knit his brows somewhat,
as he reflected upon his companion's words.
He was a shrewd man, and quick to take a hint
or see a motive. As the door opened at this
juncture, and the landlord appeared, he waved
his hand, and said,

Presently, we are busy now ;' and it was not
till two or three minutes after they were alone
again that he said, ^

Has my Aggie told you I have bound her to
any promise V

Your Aggie has not,' answered Hamilton,
somewhat sharply.

You seem to labour under the delusion that
I have ; and you, as a stanch friend of her and
Sam, one who was liberal with his money —

Avhen money should have been of service to
them — have a right to show your interest in
her, and to express any ideas yon have concerning
her to me. Bnt, Mr. Redclove,' he
added, earnestly, ' I never bound her to any
promise ; I never reminded her of any claim I
had upon her. I have always spoken, and felt,
as if the gratitude was all the other way, for the
blessing she has been to me and mine.'

Yes, the man could speak well, and was of
deep feeling and honest purpose, Hamilton
thought. He could respect him, and it was not
difficult to see the good in him. It was not
difficult to see even how Aggie's admiration for
this man's unselfishness, allied to gratitude for
his faith in her, and charity towards her, had
brought about her woman's love by the rule
governing true affection.

I am glad to hear this,' said Hamilton. ' To
tell you the truth, I was afraid that there was
an old promise, or pledge, between you. A mere
fancy of mine, which I hope you will excuse.'

Certainly ; we can't help fancies, any of us.
Now, sir,' he said, drawing his chair more closely

to Hamilton's, * you are one of the family I can
trust, and from whom I am too proud to conceal
the state of my feelings, even if I Abashed to
conceal it; and you may easily guess I am
desperately fond of her we are talking about.'

Yes, I can guess that.'

'I told the old lady at overcome once the
whole truth as plainly as I tell it you ; for I had.
made up my mind to ask Aggie to be my wife,
when I was able to protect her, and quite sure
she didn't care for any other man — having had
a chance, too, of seeing other fellows before
settling in life.'

A dangerous experiment, that sort of thing,'
said Hamilton. ' You must have felt pretty sure
of your conquest, Mr. Overdown.'

I was as sure as a man could be who had
never spoken a word to her,' he replied ; ' she
certainly looked up to me, and thought me a
wonderful sort of fellow in my way, but I did
not regard her as a conquest — as a sweetheart,
or let her see even that I loved her.'

Impossible,' muttered Hamilton.

At all events, I tried not to let her see it,'

said Dan. ' When I knew she was going into
society, and Mr. Fayre's friends were not Hkely
to resemble me or any of my mates, I overdue
that kind of acting a Kettle, perhaps— has she
told you V

Nothing. I am not in Miss Challis's confidence.
All this is new to me,' Hamilton hastened
to explain.

I was cold, and rough, and indifferent, till
she asked me in what way she had offended me ;
but there ! — she came to Grayling. She has
been in a new sphere, she has mixed in the
world. I have stood apart from her, so that nobody
should say I was running after the girl,
and keeping good offers back from her. And
now,' he said, ' time's up.'

Yes, time's up,' echoed Hamilton, softly.

I have been lucky in business lately ; the
future is not black. I am miserable without
her, and I am going to ask her straightforwardly
tomorrow morning if she'll be my wife.'

And if she does not say yes V

Daniel raised and let fall his hands heavily on
the knees of his white ducks.

Ay, there you have me, sir,' he cried ; * I don't
know what will become of me if she doesn't. I
haven't thought of that, you see — she's everything
to me. Everything !'

'Yes, I see. It will be a blow to lose her ; it
will leave a man's life an awful blank,' murmured
Hamilton.

'that's what I Avould have said — an a^vful
blank indeed,' replied Daniel Overdown.

Each man remained silent after this. Hamilton
smoked his cigar, and lazily watched the
rings of smoke curl up to the raftered ceiling
of the room ; Daniel OverdoAvn, with his work-scarred
hands planted on his knees, stared stolidly
before him.

Suddenly the latter broke into a forced
laugh.

It is a deuced odd thing that I speak to a
man for the first time in my life of a secret
which I have only breathed to one living soul
before,' said Daniel, ' and that's the old girl — the
old lady, I mean— at Overcome.'

" Out of the fulness of the heart the mouth
speaketh," ' quoted Hamilton.

Not in my case. My heart has been full of
Aggie for years, but I have not blabbed the
story out. I suppose I tell you because you
belong to the same date of her acquaintance,
and she spoke of you gratefully ; so you are nota
stranger to me in any way. xA.nd you two are
friends, and Aggie belongs to your swell world
rather than to mine, and I've got further back
somehow.'

Not at all,' said Hamilton ; ' you are the first
man in the world in her estimation.'

Has she said so V

You have a good chance of winning her —
more than a good chance,' he added, remembering
Aggie's remarks of that morning, and speaking
hoarsely his words of consolation, ' and may
consider yourself a lucky man.'

Thanked, thanked,' said Dan, brightening
again, becoming very radiant of feature even.
I am glad you think so. I always had the idea
she would keep as true as steel to all her old
friends ; consequently true as'steel to me. Now,
do you mind telling what she has said about
ene f he asked, with great eagerness.

I would prefer to spare your blushes, Mr.
Overdown,' was the satirical reply.

Oh, don't mind that,' said Dan, ' they won't
do me any harm.'

But Hamilton was not disposed to gi-atifyhis
companion any further. He had been more
than ordinarily conciliatory; this was Aggie's
friend, and he had heard much good of him,
but he could not sing to the man's praise and
glory, and flatter still more the vanity which
he saw that he possessed. He had gone out
of his way to be friendly, too, when he was low
of spirits and bitter of thought, and the gunsmith
took everything as his due, and put himself
almost upon an equality T\dth him. A
shrewd man and a warm-hearted man, but a
more self-assertive brute Hamilton had never
come across, he considered. Dan weighed
upon him already like an incubus, and he
shuddered at the thought of Agnes Chalhs
devoting all her life to Dan Overdo wn's
future.

There is not such another man in the world
as you arc, she thinks,' he said, scoffingly;

surely that verdict will content you till you
and she meet tomorrow, and swear eternal
fidelity.'

That is the kind of solemn chaff you gents
call satire,' said Overdown, keenly regarding-hamilton
again, ' and a fellow may take it as it
looks, or as it is intended, according to his mind.
I take it as a joke, knowing you are a good
sort — having had your character from Aggie,
Who sums up people pretty clearly, and tells gold
from glitter as well as any woman. This is your
nasty habit of saying sharp things you don't
mean, I suppose ?'

I don't know what you mean,' said Hamilton,
sternly ; 'has Miss Challis been summing up my
faults to you V

Hardly that,' answered Daniel Overdown,
but I met her in tears this morning, and naturally
asked what had disturbed her. And it was
you.'

I am sorry I should have been the cause of
Miss Challis's grief.'

I told her you would be — I said I was certain
when you saw her again you Avould apologise

for any hard words that had escaped you — I was
quite sure of that,' said Dan, < for you're a fellow
that means right.'

Hamilton set his teeth hard to keep an exclamation
back which made every possible effort
to get to the foreground. He was only partly
successful — something that ended with ' nation '
being plainly audible in a woolly bass. He
could have cursed and swore his heart out in his
rage, if it had not been for his strong effort to
disguise all manifestation of feeling from his
companion ; he could have flung himself upon
the carpet in his prostration of spirit to think
that Agnes Challis had complained to this man
of his actions, and been consoled by him, and
told what he, Hamilton Redclove, would do
when he came to his senses. God knows, he
had come to his senses at last— he had stepped
back from romance to the hard, prosaic world to
which he and his ' set ' belonged, and there were
no fjxncy figures, rosy dreams, and impossible
heroines to heat his imagination again. Agnes
Challis was a woman of the usual type, vain,
fretful and resentful ; she had taken offence, as

was natural enough, at all that he had .said —
but she had run to the arms of this commonplace
lover, this good-hearted lump of vulgarity,
to tell her story, and to receive his sympathy.

'Yes, I was rude of speech to her this morning,'
Hamilton remarked; 'did she tell you
everything I said V

'No;

Not the subject of our little discussion V

I can't say she did,' replied Daniel Overdown, '
after a moment's reflection ; ' she told me you
had been very kind to her — almost a friend —
until that morning, when you had suddenly
become cruel and ungenerous.'

She was f[uitc right.'

Why, of course, she was. She would not
have said so, if it hadn't been true remarked
the gunsmith ; ' and you ^vill apologise to her
when you see her again. Won't you?'

Certainly,' replied Hamilton, politely ; ' I shall
have great pleasure in doing so.'

That's all right, that will please her — please
the couple of us, in fact.'

I shall rejoice to render you both this satisfaction,

at so small a cost to myself,' said Hamilton,
bowing most blandly to his companion.

'Yes, I thought you would,' replied Daniel,
eyeing him doubtfully ; ' it's your duty, and
you're not above it.'

Is there anything more I can do before we
say good-night,' said Hamilton, rising, and putting
on his great-coat.

You can tell me what the little tiff was about,
if you like,' Daniel Overdo wn hinted; 'I don't
insist upon it — I shall hear it all from Aggie,
but I would rather it came from you.'

Why V

So that I could tell her you had owned all
very frankly, and so spare her the pain of relating
it again to me.'

Why should she tell it to you V ,

She has no secrets from me.'

A good woman's heart is like a crystal ; very
bright and clear — and hard,' he added, to
himself.

There's one thing, I hope,' said Dan.

What's that?' asked Hamilton, turning on
him sharply.

He was on the verge of an explosion still. In
all his life he had never been so tried as this,
had never struggled so desperately With his
powers of self-command.

That there has been no taunt about her
past — her birth, her mother, the prison, or anything
of that sort,' Dan suggested.

You have forgotten one thing, Mr. Overdown,'
Hamilton said.

Have I V

That I am a gentleman,' he added, with a
dignity which awed his listener for the first time.

Right, sir,' said Daniel, humbled on the
instant ; ' I ought not to have suspected a gentleman
of a mean action. I ask your pardon,
freely.'

Granted — granted. Good-night.'

He was at the door, when Daniel Overdown
said, persistently,

But you haven't thrown any light on the
dispute yet. You go away and leave me just
as ignorant as you found me.'

Hamilton swung round again, his face dark
With passion.

Well, then, if you must know, it was about
you,' be cried. ' I said you were not fit for ber,
that sbe should have done better for berseU*,
that sbe was a lady, and you were only a journeyman
gunsmitb. I saw she was choosing a
life of misery and slavery in stepping back from
ber new life to yours, and I told ber of it —
there !'

He strode out of the room into the sanded
passage, and beyond that into the nights although
be bad no mission that lay beyond his
room at the ' Lion,' where be had taken apartments
after his cousins bad left the vicarage.

He went away swiftly and angrily at once,
clanging the door noisily behind him, and leaving
Daniel Overdo wn aghast with his revelation.
For it was like a revelation from the grave to
him, uttered though it might be by a madman
or a fool— one of those despairing fools to be
found at times in morbid story-books. Dan sat
down in the chair from which be had risen, and,
with all the self-satisfaction knocked out of him,
took up the old position which Hamilton Red-clove
had abandoned on his entrance. There

was a great deal to think about, and the world
was not so bright as it lead seemed only a little
while ago.

< Aggie was a lady, and he was only a journeyman
gunsmith.' Well, that Alas true enough.
She was choosing a life of misery and slavery
in stepping back from her new life to his.' That
might be very false indeed, and the silliest of
silly prophecies. And she had told Hamilton
Redclove that she might step back, or had
hinted at it ; and so this gunsmith had been
very closely on her mind — and heart — as a man
whom she was likely to marry one of these
fine days. This should cheer any man up, not
cast him down to the depths, when he came to
reflect soberly and critically upon it all ; but,
nevertheless, the world was not as bright as it
had seemed to him only a little while ago.
Hard to explain, this, but so it was, Dan confessed,
as the shadows, without any just cause
or excuse, gathered about him in that little
room.

Meanwhile Hamilton Redclove had marched
out of the inn into the blinding snow, whirling

VOL. II. . X

and twirling without in the dark night, and
coming all ways thick and fast, as if the shai-p
winter had not tired out the country-folk
already ! Hamilton had no object that night,
save that of sleeping in the room he had engaged
at the ' Lion.' He had ordered a bed
there when his cousins had left the vicarage,
much to Mr. Fayre's annoyance ; but he was
stifling still, and it was necessary to dash into
the cold air, rather than risk suffocation in the
parlour of the inn. Let him get into the fresh
air, and walk at a hard and sharp rate through
the snow, and away from that terrible being
whose confidence and self-consciousness and
hateful tenacity of purpose had almost driven
him mad.

How long he strode on, taking no heed of
the snow-storm, or of the time striding with him,
or of the route which he had chosen, he never
knew for certain. He was aware of the clock
in the turret of old Grayling church striking an
hour which he did not stop to count, and of his
turning back hastily, conscious of being near
Mr. Facie's, and beset by a fear that he might

come across him suddenly, and listen to his
bewildering questions as to why he was pacing
country roads, like a patrol, at that hour of the
night.

But Mr. Fayi-e was lying snugly in bed and
sleeping peacefully, dreaming not of other folk's
love-troubles, and being by a decade or two
removed comfortably from them and all the
jealousies, doubts, and heart-burnings which
troop along with them, and form part of them ;
and Hamilton Redclove for a while had the
silent country lane and the snow-drift all to
himself, and to those wild soliloquies in which
he was even weak enough to indulge, until
some one striding along swiftly, and noiselessly
too, suddenly touched him on the arm, and
came like a spectre to his side, startling him,
and silencing him by his unlooked-for appearance
at his elbow.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LONDON ! PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald BLENHEIM HODRF.

/>v

30[1 12 08421 9473

OF THE
U N Diversity
or ILLINOIS

in 2010 within funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/manshecaredfor03robi

BY

F. W. ROBINSON

AUTHOR OF

"GRANDMOTHER'S MONEY,
"NO CHURCH,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. m.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1884.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

BOOK THE THIRD.

THE MISTRESS OF ILVERCOMBE.

CONTENTS.

i300K THE FOURTH,

CRUEL TRUTHS.

THE MISTRESS OF ILVEECOMBE.

(Continued.)

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XXX.

ON THE High-road.

Hamilton Redclove, with that supreme ccg!^
tempt for the minor weaknesses of humanity
befitting a young man with a tolerably good
opinion of himself and his general abilities, had
never acknowledged to such a trifling disorder
as ' nerves.' His nerves, he believed, he had
had always completely under his own control ;
he had borne trouble well, disappointment well,
even Dan Over down and his revelations tolerably
well, till the last three minutes of their
interview, when he had certainly given way

b2

just a trifle ; lent to jump like a nervous girl at
the sight of a stranger at his elbow, and to be
inclined to cry out in his astonishment, was an
aggravating fact to him, when he had fully
recovered from his surprise.

Who are you, sir ? What do you want ^dth
me V he asked, very sharply.

I am Sony I have scared you,' said the
stranger, apologetically ; ' it was not my intention,
I assure you.'

1 am not scared,' Hamilton answered ; ' I was
unprepared for you, that's all. What do you
want prowling about the lanes at this time of
night, may I ask V

The man laughed at the peremptory tones in
which he was addressed ; laughed, not un •
pleasantly, though there was a ring almost of
opposition, or of defiance, in the midst of his
hilarity.

Do the Warwickshire lanes belong to you,
sir, that you resent my right to walk along
them was the quiet inquiry following the
laugh.

I only resent your right to force your companionship

upon me,' said Hamilton. * Good-evening.'


Stay a moment,' and here the stranger
touched Hamilton's arm again, ' you're a peppery
mortal, I should say ; but you must not
leave a fellow all of a hurry in this 
quarter, without giving him the information
he requires. In my country we are only too
willing to help a man on his road, and put him
in the right track.'

What information do you want of me f asked
Hamilton.

I have lost my way, and you are a native of
these parts, who can set me straight again,' replied
the stranger.

I am not a native of these parts.'

"What, are you lost, too ? And is that why
you were cursing and swearing, and denouncing
the elements V cried the man ; ' well, that's an
odd coincidence enough.'

I am not lost,' snapped Hamilton. ' Where
do you want to go ?'

To a place called Ilvercombo.'

Mrs. Dan gerfi eld's V

« Exactly.'

Where have you come from V

Mr. Fayre's — the parson's.'
You V

Yes, he put me in the right way, an hour
or so ago, but it's got all wrong again
somehow.'

Hamilton looked more keenly and critically at
the stranger, but the man was diJBScult to make
out, with the collar of his great-coat turned up
above his ears, and with the snow upon him,
thick and white. The stranger was tall, and
probably young — that was all Hamilton could
make of him, peer as hard as he might. Who
could he be wandering thus helplessly about
the high road, and trpng to discover Overcome
?

It's a late hour for a visit to Mrs. Danger-field,'
commented Hamilton.

Oh ! that does not matter,' said the man j
there are those who would be very glad to seeme.'


Indeed !'

At least, I hope so. A man never knows for

certain when he's welcome,' he added, lightly ;
and it's easy to turn tail again, if out of one's
reckoning.'

Mrs. Dangerfield will be asleep by this time,'
commented Hamilton.

Possibly. Never mind about that ; which is
the way to her house V

*■ You are going in the strong direction,
I think,' said Hamilton, ' but I don't quite
know where I am myself. Let me consider a
minute.'

Take your time. I am in no hurry.'

'That's fortunate.'

The stranger looked keenly and critically at
Hamilton now, as at a being who puzzled him
in turn, and Hamilton strode on with full liberty
to reflect on the position. He was not quite
satisfied with it, and yet he was not suspicious
of this stranger, whose manner was too outspoken,
he believed, to indicate any nefarious
design. The stranger was almost anxious to let
people know where he was going, and with
what object. Some sea-faring man — one of the
servants' sweethearts from abroad possibly,

and coming home with his heart in the right
place— that is, where he had left it, in some
(other faithful heart's perhaps. A second Daniel
come to judgment — another Daniel Overdo wn,
and with the same purpose in his mind. What
devoted lads and lasses there were about this
part of Warwickshire, Hamilton thought — 'something
in the air ' encouraging to universal fidelity,
he supposed ; and then he kicked the snow
before him savagely, and brushed the drift
from his eyelashes and the tip of his nose, and
looked round to make sure where his wanderings
had led him. When he was almost
sure in which direction he was, and before he
could impart the requisite amount of information
to his companion, the other said, quietly
and quaintly, and with a perfect frankness
that Hamilton Redclove might, under other
circumstances, have been induced to admire,

Have you been drinking at all V

Drinking ! No. What on earth makes you
think I have been drinking V

You pardon for the inquiry,' was the calm

observation, ' but I tlioiight you were screwed
when I first came up With you.'

Hamilton reflected for a moment, then said,

Screwed ! Indeed !'

It's a bitter night to be walking about with
a straw hat on the back of your head, and that
jaunty jacket loose and unbuttoned. That's
all,' was the explanation proffered.

Hamilton clapped his hand to his head at this,
and found, to his amazement, that he had come
out in his landlord's summer straw-hat which
he had snatched at blindly from the pegs in the
passage, before he had dashed into the night,
gasping for fresh air.

'We don't study dress in this part of the
country,' said Hamilton, by way of hurried explanation,
'and the night isn't at all cold to me.'

Thundering hot, I should say, in your opinion,'
was the dry remark of the stranger.

And your road lies to the left here,' Hamilton
said, significantly.

Oh ! thank you. How far is it to Overcome
now?'

Two or three miles.' •

Thank yon again governor,' said his companion,
* and good-night.'

He strode away at an increased rate of progression,
Hke a man who, once set upon his
right road, would make up by extra rapidity for
the time he had lost.

Hamilton started at the last words, and at the
tone in them. He had surely heard that voice
before, he thought for an instant, and it belonged
to a time of doubt and difficulty, when he
was as dissatisfied With life and its surroundings
as he was at that moment !

The man did not notice that Hamilton had
come to a full stop, and was looking after him
through the lines of snow-flakes; he had not
recognised Hamilton, or dreamed of meeting
him in Warwickshire, or thought him anything
but a young villager very ' hot in the copper
from incessant potations at the ' Lion,' and
taking his ' cooler ' on his way home through
the storm. He was too full of Overcome tolet
Hamilton Redclove's demeanour oppress his
mind in any way — in a few more minutes he
had completely forgotten him.

He went on whistling softly to himself, with
his head inclined a little forward to keep the
snoAv as much as possible from his face, a man
whom a storm did not disconcert, but rather
put into excellent spirits. He did not miss his
way again ; Overcome was on somewhat higher
ground, he had been told, and as the road
sloped upwards he felt he was on the right
path. Presently he had reached the high brick
wall which separated Mrs. Dangerfield's mansion
from the main road, and he kept to this till he
came to the great gates and the lodge-keeper's
house, where a light was burning. He rang
the lodge bell very softly, and an old man came
shuffling out in the snow to peer at him through
the iron bars.

Who are you ? What do you want V piped
forth the lodge-keeper.

Is this Mrs. Dangerfield's V

It is.'

Is she at home V

She's not likely to be out, I should say.'

Let me in, then, old man — and look sharp
about it.'

*Mrs. Dangerfielcl cannot expect you at this
hour of the night,' said the old man, dubiously;
that is not very likely.'

I never said she did. It is Miss Challis whom
I have come to see.'

'What, now?'

The lodge-keeper was still doubtful, and the
stranger was not anxious to explain the true
nature of his mission to this old gentleman, anymore
than he had been too communicative to
the party in the straw-hat, whom he had met
careering about the road like a lunatic. He
remembered him again as the lodge-keeper felt
disposed to extemporise a whole catechism of
questions.

I have come from Mr. Fay re's,' he said, after
a pause.

He thought that the vicar's name was a good
passport, and would carry him through, as it
did.

From ]mr. Fayre's ! Oh ! I see,' said the
lodge-keeper; 'nothing wrong, I hope, at the
vicarage, young man ?'

No — nothing wrong.'

The gates were unfastened, and the lodge-keeper
said, more civilly,

Do yon know the way V

To be sure.'

I don't seem to remember you at Mr. Fayre's —

1 ' the old man said, bnt the traveller was

through the gates and walking briskly along
the broad carnage-drive away from him before
the sentence could be completed.

The visitor trudged on, and the snow was
deeper and thicker here, with not a footprint to
mar its sm-face till his coming at that hour. He
went off the track once but returned to it, and
presently he became aware of the big block of
house-building looming in front of him draped
with snow, and with never a light that he could
see in all the long line of sombreness before
him.

Early folk, and gone to roost,' he muttered.
I hope not. I don't want to go back just yet,
not till I have seen her.'

He was close to the entrance-door, and his
hand was raised to announce his presence
without, when he paused and drew back, as

though a fresh thought had occmTecl to him.

One more sm^vey of the house, as if interested
in its architecture, eve a in the darkness ; then
he went back a few more steps, and tramped
along the garden terrace, which ran along the
whole extent of the mansion, and was continued
on the garden front.

He walked the full extent of the terrace,
turned, and then proceeded calmly onwards.
At the back of the house he paused again for
an instant, for there was a light streaming from
more than one window across the snow, and
here were signs of humanity at last.

To the long, narrow window nearest him,
where the tracery of the frame-work was
thrown upon the snow, like a shadow-pattern
there, the man went very cautiously.

CHAPTER XXXI.

FROM THE PAST.

That particular evening was scarcely spent
more agreeably by our characters at Overcome,
than by the two gentlemen whom we
have heard in sharp discussion at the ' Lion ' at
Grayling.

Agnes Chalks did not find any great harmony
prevailing at the house upon her return ; dulness
and deep thought, and much absence of real
life, were the characteristics of the place, she
perceived. The vicar had gone back to his
daughter, and there were only the Dangerfields
left to welcome her ; and they did not welcome
her in the least. The old lady was steeped in

dulness, to begin with ; she sat heaped in her
chair, a lay figure of unprepossessing appearance,
disinclined to speak, and disposed to
resent the liberty of anyone speaking to her.
She hooked under her brows at Agnes, as our
heroine came into the drawing-room, but no
word of greeting or welcome escaped her ; and
Ashen Agnes stooped, kissed her on the cheek,
and asked if she were well, the answer in return
was very far from satisfactory.

'I feel worse than I have ever done in my
life,' she replied.

Let me send for a doctor ' began Agnes,

Avhen she interrupted her.

It Avill not be the doctors, but the keepers of
the madhouse, Avhen anybody is Avanteded for me,'
she said, indignantly.

What has happened Whilst I have been away
to disturb you

Old Mrs. Dangerfield did not reply, and Aggie
glanced towards the AvidoAv and Estelle for any
explanation they might feel disposed to offer.
But the Avidow was painfully attentive to a piece
of Avool-Avork in her lap, and Estelle regarded

her so stolidly that she felt the old love and
confidence that had been so impulsively displayed,
was as impulsively withdrawn. She
could not guess the reason yet, though it was
already suggested to her mind ; she knew that
Hamilton Kedclove's movements had engendered
distrust of him and her, and she was too
proud to attempt to explain that — too weary
herself of the day's excitement to tell the whole
story, and leave them to decide whether it
reflected upon her disparagingly or exonerated
her from blame. And whose business was it
save her own ? — who had a right in that house,
or beyond it, to regulate her actions and call
her to account for them ? — by what law of injustice
did they condemn her in their own
narrow judgment and their shallow estimate of
her character? She was tired of them [and of
their little jealous world ; let her get back to
the place she had given up for them as soon as
she could ; her sphere was not theirs ; her
thoughts were not theirs either. It would be
better to get away.

You have been harassed, I fear,' Agnes
VOL. III. C

whispered to the old lady ; ' if there is anything
I can do to help yon ont of trouble, or anything
I can say, yon may command me.'

The wasted hand stole forth slowly from
many wrappings, and put itself in that of
Aggie's.

< Presently,' she murmured ; then she looked
towards her who had made such an unhappy
match of it with her son.

Frances, play something. For Heaven's sake
put that horrible wool-work down I' she cried,
petulantly.

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield walked
across to the piano, and commenced a Mass
in D forthwith. She was obedient to the old
lady's commands that evening ; she did everything
without a murmur, but she was singularly
quiet over it all, and Estelle was equally fngid
to match. The daughter had gone back with
wonderful quickness to her old demeanour, the
faint copy of her mother which she had always
been to the ordinary observer, although not to
Hamilton Redclove or to Aggie Challis.

When the Mass was completed, and the company,

by several degrees, still further depressed,
the servants brought round tea, Which was anything
but a festive meal on that occasion. There
"were a few faint efforts made to promote a
certain amount of conversation, but they were
dead failures. Young Mrs. Dangerfield attempted,
in a flabby fashion, to elraw out her
mother-in-law, who prudently declined to be
drawn out, and to address her daughter on
venous topics, which elicited only monosyllables
in response ; she even threw in a word or two,
and, with an expression that seemed to convey
that they were under protest, to Agnes Challis,
whose answers were vague in consequence.
Something had surely happened during her absence
from Overcome, thought Aggie, to account
for this general taciturnity — surely, it wa
not her fault, or in any way connected ^^'it]l
her?

She was glad when the Honourable sirs.
Dangerfield and her daughter rose to withdraw,
at an hour much earlier than usual ; she was
not hurt at the Tvidow's stately bow and graver
•' Good evening, Miss Chalhs,' and even Estelle's

frigid repetition of the salutation did not wound
lier in any great degree. She Avoid await the
explanation at a future period — the okl lady
might make it, or, presently, Estelle — till then
there was nothing to excite her ; of the inconsistencies
and variabilities of life she had had
in her time — in her mother s time — much sad
experience.

Frances Dangerfield and daughter passed out
of the room, Estelle saying, at the door, 'I think
of sharing mamma's room to-night,' more for
the edification of the old lady than for our
heroine, who turned to the fire with a sad little
smile that did not, however, betray any mortification
of spirit. Bending towards the blazing
coal, and gazing into its depths, formed, though
she knew it not, a companion picture to the
man at the ' Lion ' inn, nth whose thoughts
hers crossed strangely at that period.

Well — haven't you anything to ask me V
said old Mrs. Dangerfield, querulously, at last ;
or are you going to be as aggravating as the
rest of them?'

Pardon me ; I had fallen into thought.'

< What have yon to think about, I wonder,
and to give you such a miserable expression as
that f inquired the old lady.

Was it miserable V

'Very.'

Agnes laughed a little tremulously.

A girl should not have a fit of " the blues,"
grand mamma, at her first offer of marriage,
should she V

He has offered to marry you, then !' cried
old Mrs. Dangerfield, beginning to shake a little
at the intelligence.

He will tomorrow morning,' was the reply.
He has given me fair warning that he will call
with that intention.'

They were right, and I was wrong, after all,'
muttered the old lady. ' They understand this
new-fangled world better than I — and all the
follies, and vanities, and paltry scheming with
Avhicli it is full. It is beyond my time. It
wasn't so when I was young.'

What was not V asked Agnes.

This paltry disguise of feeling — this affectation
of indifference — masking only passion and

intrigue in men and women, who might, with
credit to them, act more honestly. I say it was
not so, when I was young,' cried Mrs. Danger-field,
with great excitement.

Agnes Chalks drew her chair closer to the
speaker, and took the withered hands, not without
resistance, in her own.

You are doing me an injustice, if you refer
to me,' she said.

I am deceived in you.'

Because an old friend hints that he wishes
me to become his wife — that, despite the past,
he sees his only happiness in me V

Hamilton Redclove had no right to say that
to you.'

Hamilton Redclove,' said Aggie, in only half
surprise, for she had half-guessed the misconstruction
which had been put upon her
Avoids, and had been womanly and curious
enough to attempt to sound to the depths ; ' I
am speaking of Daniel Overdo wn, of Birmingham?'


What !'

Agnes Challis repeated her statement

You were speaking of Daniel Overdo unuttered
the old lady.

Of my old friend and protector — my hardheaded,
soft-hearted, conceited, obstinate guardian,
Dan Overdown,' repeated Aggie ; ' what has
Mr. Hamilton Kedclove to do with me V

Did you not meet Mr. Redclove by appointment
this morning?'

No, by accident.'

He escorted you to Grayling.'

He came half-away with me ; then Mr. Daniel
Overdown met us.'

Where has Hamilton been all day T inquired
Mrs. Danger field.

I have not the slightest idea. I thought he
had come back to this house.

He has not been here,' said the old lady ;
and you and he have not been together since
this morning V

*No.'

I knew I was right,' said old Mrs. Danger-field,
triumphantly ; « kiss me, Aggie, and forgive
me for thinking for awhile, perhaps, that
you were keeping me in the dark. I am not

suspicions, but Frances Dangerfield and that
silly Estelle are — both of them. In some
respects, my child,' she added, confidentially,
they are a couple of cats. They are hard to
please and easy to pain, and I shall not be sorry
when they leave Overcome.'

Not on my account,' answered Aggie, very
positively and proudly : ' I must be no object of
dispute, here or elsewhere. If they cannot
think me honest and fair-dealing, leave it to
time to clear me, rather than take my part
against their prejudices. I am not afraid of the
result, grandmamma.'

She bowed her forehead on the other's bosom,
and a tear or two escaped her, which the old
woman did not perceive.

I have fought your battle already — I have
spoken out pretty plainly,' said Mrs. Danger-field,
with great significance, ' but Frances
thought there was a secret understanding between
you and her cousin Hamilton.'

Oh !'

'That you were love-making on the sly,' she
continued.

Did she say that before Estelle V
Yes ; she was more angry than I have see
her lately, and did not mind what she said.
Perhaps it was for Estelle's sake, and to shake
her ont of that foolish dream of hers.'

And Estelle did not defend me — did not take
my part in any way — did not tell her mother
what I had already told her about Hamilton
Redclove f inquired Estelle, hastily.

Estelle has hardly spoken a word all day.'
Poor Estelle, so easily taught to discredit the
actions of those who try their best for her, even
if they fail said Agnes, thoughtfully.

And to be taught so by a mother. AVell,
well — I pity them both though. Poor women —
poor women !'

Agnes resumed her former position to regard
old Mrs. Dangerfield more closely — more keenly
as with the consciousness of one who possessed
a clue to the thoughts passing in the other's
mind. Mrs. Dangerfield paused, and made a
sudden dash back to the old topic, and Aggie
did not attempt to check her.

But you are not going to accept this

Daniel Overdown, child V was the sudden
inquiry.

I cannot refuse him.'

'You cannot?'

'No;

You really mean to say you will promise tomorrow
to become his wife — before you know
your own mid ?'

I think I shall promise,' answered Aggie, a
faint reserve at the last moment asserting itself
in spite of her.

This was the dangerous ground of comment
on which Hamilton had intruded and got himself
snubbed earlier that day, but Aggie ChaUis
did not consider the present speaker's remarks
in the same way, it was evident.

Yes — he is. He knows me and my life.
And he loves me."

Do you love him?'

Agnes drew a deep long breath very quickly.
She did not know — she could not say now— all
her life of late days had become confused and
involved, and nothing was as it had been before
she had left the vicarage. Did she love Dan

Overclown, of Prosser Street ? —was the contemplation
of life with him the one bright spot
shining through the clouds that had shut her in
so long ? — was happiness to come with his love
for her, his trust in her, or to come never in her
life?

Yes, in my o^vn way, after my own fashion,
I believe I love him,' she confessed, slowly, ' not
as women love men in novels, but with much
gratitude and truth. I am aware of his faults ;
I see where they may clash with mine — but I
know the sterling gold in his heart better than
anyone else does, and I Avould not be the cause
of any unhappiness to him for all that the world
could offer me.'

You think too much of what he has done
for you.'

You do not know how noble and unselfish
he has been.'

You are more so, if you think of becoming
his wife because he took care of you when you
were young, and helpless, and suspected — and
not because you love him. He has no right to
exact as much from you, and I will tell him so

tomorrow,' cried Mrs. Dangerfield, with considerable
animation.

No, no. If you do, I will return to Grayling
at once; I will have no go-betweens. I will
answer him of my own free-will, and without
anybody's interference,' cried Aggie, passionately.


You have made up your mind, I see,' said
the old lady, with a heavy sigh. ' It's a great
pity, and it is in too much haste.'

'He is in a hurry — not I,' answered Aggie,
faintly smiling again ; * he is afraid of losing me
if he delay any longer. As if I were likely to
marry any man save he who knows my life,
and judges it correctly.'

I had a hope it would be this Hamilton Red-clove
— some day,' said the other.

You had !' exclaimed Aggie.

Yes, I had.'

Is it possible V

He does not love Estelle ; he seeks you out
your position some day will be '

Don't say any more,' cried Aggie, interrupting
her ; ' he is a lord's nephew, and I am a

ticket-of-leave woman ! There is the social
distinction which nothing can set aside, even if
we were so unfortunately foolish — which is
impossible — as to take a fancy to each other.
Even if he went down to beggary, and yon left
me rich as Croesus in you' weak attempt at
restitution.'

The old lady covered her face with her hands,
and ga^^e a low, long cry. The instant afterwards
the hands were drawn down into her lap
and held there tightly by her companion, and
the fair face of Agnes Challis was resting close
to hers.

There, there, don't mind what 1 said just
now,' Aggie murmured. 'You are sorry for a
past which is not worth alluding to, and I am
learning slowly to forget it and forgive it. I
have been excited, and said strange things today.
May I go to my room?'

Yes, child, yes.'

Good-night, grand mamma. I call you by
that name when no one is by, although sometimes
I think it jars upon you.'

'It is a name I love to hear you whisper tome,'

was the reply. ' Gooch-night. God bless
you, Agnes.'

As the old lady kissed her, both women were
startled not a little by the sudden clashing of a
hasty hand upon the window-panes without.
Aggie sprang back with some alarm, and then,
full of a new courage, rushed to the heavy
curtains and dragged them aside from the window.
There was the night beyond, and the
hurrying hues of snow-drift crossing and recrossing
it, and a tall man standing without, as
if waiting for admittance. Agnes could see his
face pressed closely to the glass.

What are you doing in the grounds ? What
do you want? Who are you?' Agnes called
forth, quickly.

The third question only met with a response.

I am Sam ChaUis,' Alas the answer.

CHAPTER XXXII.

THE BROTHER.

T AM Sam Challis !'

A voice from the grave could not have startled
the listeners more than that announcement.
And it was as if from the grave of the buried
past it spoke to one of them.

Sam ! back again, and — here !' ejaculated
Aggie ; then with slow, cautious steps she
approached the window more closely, and
looked through at him. The old woman had
turned round in her chair, and was glaring in
the same direction, as at a ghost for which she
had been waiting.

The man standing in the snow looked as

eagerly into the room, as for some one whom
he wished to recognise, and the light fell upon
him with distinctness, leaving Aggie in the
shadow.

It is my brother,' said she to her grandmother,
' I may admit him?'

He may rob and murder lis,' whispered the
old lady, ' he never bore a good character — we
know nothing of him.'

'Will yon let me answer for him?' said
Aggie, with her hand upon the lock of the
casement.

YoiT are not afraid f

No, madam. He is not here to harm us.'

How can you be sure ?'

I feel sure that this is one friend come
back to me. Otherwise, he would laye stayed
away.'

I dread him,' immured the old lady, clasping
her hands together in suspense, ' I fear to
meet him. Let me get away before he enters.
Please, let me get away I'

She half-rose to quit the room, then she
glanced once more towards the window, stopped
and sank back in her chair.

He may come in,' she said. ' I will see it outwith
you.'

Aggie did not wait for her companion to
change her mind again ; she drew back the bolt
of the French window, which she pushed outwards
to the night. The man stamped the
snow from his feet before he entered, advanced
to Aggie and put his arms around her, straining
her with much rough ardour to his breast. He
had recognised her even with her face in
shadow, the tall, graceful figure was the same,
she was a young woman when he had seen hier
last at Liverpool, and time had not changed her
to him— she was as he had hoped to find her,
and he was grateful for the discovery which
once more linked their lives together. It was
he who had changed — not Aggie Challis. Standing
in the full light, it was easy to perceive that
time had changed him for the better, and difficult
to associate him with the half-starved,
ragged waif whom Ave have seen shivering in
the streets of Liverpool. He was a tall, well-dressed
man, with a bronzed, healthy face, and
with only the keen outlook from it to remind
>'0L. III. , D

one of his past — the quick, almost Avatchfnl
glance which had characterised him Avhen
policemen were lurking at street corners, ready
to be ' down upon him ' at any moment, if he
were not prepared to dodge them. He had
grown a good-looking young fellow, too, and
there was a bright smile on his face which no
one had seen hitherto, save Aggie, when he was
a boy at home, and cared for home a little. And,
above all, he was so wondrously like the picture
in the dining-room that it was the first thought
of the two women when greetings had been exchanged,
and he was sitting down, hat in hand,
between them.

To think I am back again with you,' were
his first words after releasing Aggie from his
embrace, ' to think I have found you !'

He looked very attentively, very inquisitively,
at the old lady in the chair, and Aggie said, byway
of introduction,

This is Mrs. Dangerfield of Overcome, who
has been very land to me.'

I have heard so already from Mr. Fayre,'
answered Sam, ' at whose house I have been

making inquiries after you. Mrs. Dangerfield,'
he said, addressing her, ' may the brother
of ignes Chalhs thank yon, as well as his
sister.'

Your sister has been kind to me,' murmured
the old woman, sitting now nth clasped hands
and head averted from him, ' I have done nothing
to deserve thanks.'

^ You will allow me to take Aggie's word for
it — for somehow,' he added, lightly, touching his
sister on the shoulder, ' and even at my worst, I
had faith in her and no one else. And now,
madam,' he added, extending a brown hand towards
her with a suddenness that made her
shrink from him, ' may your son's son take your
hand and say, " peace between us two " V

He regarded her very earnestly as he spoke ;
he seemed studying her With grave intentness.


You do not come here as my enemy V she
asked, almost doubtfully.

Neither your enemy nor accuser.'

'I never took heed of you when I was welland
strong, and might have saved you from the

d2

streets,' she murmured, ' my pride was against
all acknowledgment of you

Times have changed, and you and I have
changed with them. If my sister is your guest
and friend, what have I to offer in return but
gratitude V

I don't know,' she answered, feebly, ' it is alla
dream to me.'

Don't let me wake you in a hurry, then he
said, laughing pleasantly, ' don't trust me too
soon — I am still Sam Challis''

He sat with his hand extended still towards
her, and she put hers within it after looking at
him furtively.

How like you are to my lost Paul,'
she said, ' it is as if the dead were coming
back.'

'We will let the dead rest as long as we can,*
he replied ; ' they are objectionable 'company to
the quick.'

It was somewhat of a harsh reply, but the
manner in which it was conveyed robbed it of
any sting that it might have possessed, if delivered
in another fashion. He seemed at that

time a man brimming over With good temper,
and from whom an unkind phrase could not
possibly escape.

Why did you come to the window in so
strange a fashion V Agnes inquired.

It was the only light I could see shining in
this big house,' he replied, ' and I had prowled
round it like a wolf before making up my mind
to disturb you. Mr. Fayre told me that Mrs.
Dangerfield was unwell, and I hesitated at a
formal summons at so late an hour. I thought,
if I cord talk to you quietly to begin with, it
would be a better plan,' he added, almost significantly,
Aggie thought. ' When I saw the light
above the curtains, and the flickering of a fire
on the ceiling, I had the instinct that you were
here, and I came to the window to listen for
your voice, which I felt sm-e I should remember.
And I did ; and, impulse getting the master of
me, I nearly broke the glass as a start off.'

He laughed again, and Agnes smiled at him
in return, rather than at the subject matter of
his discourse. He was in high spirits ; his discovery
of his sister had exhilarated him ; he

was a man who took life easily, or with whom
life had become a matter of some ease and personal
enjoyment. Agnes regarded him as a
being whom she hardly understood at present
who had returned to England somewhat of
an incomprehensibility, at least a man not
quickly to be read.

You have not told me anything of yourself,
sam,' said his sister ; ' what happened at Liverpool?
Why you did not keep your promise to
Mr. Redclove, who had trusted you so generously
with his money?'

The light left his face, and he became grave,
almost stern, on the instant.

Ah ! what did they all think of me, Aggie V

The worst, I am afraid, poor Sam,' was the
reply.

How easy it is to believe the worst,' he said,
bitterly ; ' how cruel, how infernally uncharitable
! And yet we all do it in our turn, and no
one escapes the lash but the biggest knave,
hiding in the background.'

You have grown a satirist,' said Aggie.

I have had a great deal of time in the far

West to think out these Httle problems he answered,
laughing again.

You have been to America V

'Yes.'
* And have been successful there,' cried Aggie.
Oh ! I am very glad, Sam ; you don't know
how happy you have made me.'

Wait a bit,' answered Sam Challis, quickly ;
don't jump to conclusions, or read my story
for me. I have not been successful, I have not
been wholly unsuccessful. I am not a rich man,
but I shall not be poor till I have paid my debts,
and set my face homewards.'

Homewards ! To America again T

Yes.'

I thought you were back for good, Sam,'
said Agnes.

That would be for bad,' he added, enigmatically.


She looked at him inquiringly, but he drifted
into the old subject without explaining.

I have come to England with three missions ;
first, to see you ; secondly, to pay back two
hundred points which 1 borrowed in Liverpool

of a gentleman whose name I only learn to-day
for the first time.'

I am glad — I am glad,' cried Aggie, beating
her hands together in her new delight ; ' if it
leave yon a beggar, Sam, I am very, very proud
that you have saved the money, and are here to
pay it back.'

Yes, I shall be proud of that,' was Sam
Challis's answer.

And thirdly,' she asked — ' what is the third
mission V

His quick glance passed from his sister to the
old woman in the chair, sitting there with eyes
distended still, and ears drinking in every word
he uttered.

That is a secret which time will reveal,' he
levied, after a moment's silence, ' not I.'

CHAPTER Xxxii.

sot QUITE UNDERSTOOD.

Old Mrs. Dangerfield looked away from Sam
Challis after life last words, and reached a shaking
hand towards the bell at her side.

I am tired,' she murmured; 'I will go to my
room when Therese comes, if yon will excuse
me. Will you remain here to-night V she asked
her grandson, nervously.

Thank you, no,' answered Sam, ' I have
arranged for a room at the inn in the village.'

Old Mrs. Dangerfield was evidently relieved
in mind by this statement.

Agnes, lend me your arm upstairs. Therese
is long in coming, and I am very weary,' said

]airs. Dangerfield ; ' you-wall excuse your sister
for a few minutes V

Certainly,' was the reply. ' But, as it is getting
late, perhaps she will excuse me till the
morning also. I could not rest until I had seen
her ; and, having seen her, it will be a rational
proceeding to say good-night to both of you.'

No, Sam,' answered Aggie, ' please wait a
little longer.'

As you will.'

Old Mrs. Dangerfield responded to his goodnight,
and left the room, leaning upon Aggie's
arm. Outside the door they found Therese
advancing sleepily and slowly, but the old lady
waved her back again.

You will await me in my room,' she said ;
and Therese, aroused into a semi-state of bewilderment,
stared at her, and then turned.

I wish to speak to you, Agnes, for a minute,
if you ^vill,' said the grandmother.

1 am listening,' replied iVggie.

All is a mystery concerning him, and he
speaks in fiddles,' she said, with excitement ;
we must not trust him yet.'

I can trust him,' answered the sister of the
man suspected. •

I hope we both can,' mmTim.red the old lady,
but the fear is on me that he is here to harm
us, and I cannot shake it off to-night.'

You must not fear my brother — you will not,
presently.'

I trust not. How like to Paul I' she exclaimed,
' how dreadfully like the son whom God took
from me !'

They went upstairs together to the door of
the old lady's room. Here they stopped, and
old Mrs. Dangerfield said,

• Good-night, child.'

Good-night, grandmamma.'

You will never be against me, Aggie V

Never,' was the answer.

That comforts me. Good-night once more,'
said the grandmother.

They kissed and separated, and Agnes Challis
went downstairs to the drawing-room to find it
wholly deserted. She was sui-prised, and, after
one glance at the window by which her brother
had entered, and the bolt of which was as she

had left it, she passed into the dining-room.
• Samuel Chalks was standing there, with one
of the silver candlesticks from the drawing-room
in his hand. The light was held np towards his
father's picture, which he was attentively sm
eying.

I think I see the likeness to myself which
scared the old girl so, Aggie,' he said, as she
came to his side.

You should not have left the drawing-room,'
said Agnes ; ' you alarmed me.'

Ah ! you are not used to me yet,' was her
brother's remark ; ^ I am a curious fellow, and
this is my father's house into which I step for
the first time in my life. x\nd,' he added, with
a deepening shadow on his face, ' that is the
father who neglected me and you.'

Pray, come away.'

I thought his picture might be in this room,'
he said, placing the candlestick on the table,
although there is an apartment in the house
which used to be called Paul's study. I wonder,
Aggie, what the father studied, save himself.'

Hush, hush, Sam !' cried his sister, ' I have

thought like this at times, but I have thought
still more of the mystery to which his lips were
sealed. Only a little while ago, Sam, yon said
it Alas very easy to think the worst of anyone.'

Right he answered, ' let ns go back.'

As they moaned towards the drawing-room,
his sister said,

Who told you of our father's study?'

I must have guessed it,' he answered, with
his easy laugh again.

No ; that is not true.'

Well, I have met some of the servants in the
village this evening, and asked a few questions
of them, if you must know.'

They will take you for a spy.'

Not they — what is there to play the spy for
in Overcome '? I learn a little news concerning
my father — is it not natural I should wish to
hear about him, and his life here ? And yet all
that the dolts can tell me is that the mother was
very fond of him, and went mad about him, and
is still fretting for him.'

I could have told you that.'

You could have told me of an upstairs room,

on which the key has been turned since his
death, too — but would you have done so V

Yes, if I had thought you curious concerning
it'

In that room may be hidden the secret of
our lives — that secret which you lost your
liberty in foolishly trying to discover for yourself,'
said Sam, eagerly.

At Chester — not here.'

*The*'manwho lived at Chester — whom our
mother told you of — is dead. The papers are
not there.'

Ha ! you know that. By what means.'

I have been working for one end since I
have been in England — taking up a clue first
discovered in America,' he said. ' I will tell
you all some day, when you trust me as much
as I trust you.'

I did not have a doubt of you, Sam, till you
spoke like this.'

'Don't doubt me, girl,' he said, laying his
hand upon her shoulder gently. ' We are the
children of a mother who was wronged, and
we are fighting for our rights still.'

I have the patience to wait — to endure.'

I have lost all patience, Aggie.'

Let ns get back to the drawing-room,' she
said.

He took lip the candlestick again, and led the
way from the dining-room, his hand still resting
on the shoulder of his sister. There was true
affection for her in his action, in his looks, in the
very ring of his voice, but his heart was dead to
the rest of the world, in Agnes Challis's 'estimation.
When he spoke of his mother, of her
wrongs, and of the past wherein both had
existed, there came a strange, set expression to
his face, on which the light died out completely.
No — she did not understand him yet.

As they passed into the drawing-room, shutting
the door of the dining-room behind them,
an apparition, as it were, glided from a screen
in the distant shadows of the room they had
quitted, and stole with noiseless steps towards
the door which brother and sister had closed.
There, in the darkness on that side of the heavy
wainscot, it took up its position, and listened
very eagerly.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

ROUSED TO ACTION.

Brother and sister did not return to their seats
together by the fireside. Sam ChaUis stood on
the hearth rug, and Agnes at a Kettle distance
from him Watched him anxiously. Within the
last few minutes there had crept to the sister's
heart grave anxiety, despite the protest he had
made — not so much a doubt of him, as of the
motive which had brought him to Overcome,
and the manner in which he might act at a
future time. His face was hard and stern when
the shadow of the past was on it — Agnes had
observed that already, and marvelled at what it
might portend. She was a little disappointed.

also, that it was not for her sake alone he had
come to Overcome. The words which had escaped
him had implied that fact too strongly, without
his own acknowledgment of other tasks he
had set himself — a confession which had quickly
scared old Mrs. Dangerfield from the room.
Still to survey him closely, was scarcely to
believe him a messenger of vengeance ; there
was a frank, fearless outlook on his face that
was not terrible to confront, and, when he
turned to Aggie, his features softened, and were
full of an affection he made no effort to conceal.

I think I will be going now,' he said to his
sister ; ' you are looking fatigued — I have tired
you.'

A long walk to-day has tired me, not you,
Sam,' she answered.

We shall have time for much conversation
tomorrow,' he said ; ' and the night is slipping
away confoundedly.'

I should be glad to hear why you did not
meet Mr. Redclove on the landing-stage at
Liverpool,' said Agnes, anxiously, ' he has
always thought you deceived him.'

VOL. III. E

That I ran away with his money V answered
Sam. ' It was a natural idea enough, under the
circumstances. Did you think so V

In my heart, Sam, I believed the story would
be explained some day, but as time went on,
and you sent no news, I felt the doubts grow
stronger.'

I was never a thief, Aggie,' he said, mournfully,
' but I knew you must think me one until
I could return with the money earned, to prove
my honesty more clearly. The story without
that would have been only laughed at.'
Not by me.'

By the others, Mr. Fayre, Daniel Overdown,
and the man who bought me out of England.'
'Oh! Sam.'

Oh, I have never been able to believe in a
spasmodic act of charity to the extent of two
hundred pounds pitched at a vagabond in the
streets of Liverpool,' said Sam ; * but still he
sought not to bind me to conditions, as he
might have done. He trusted me with money
before I was on shipboard, too — being an amateur
in deception or in acts of benevolence —

and, like most amateurs, lie made a mess of it.'

You do not speak gratefully of one who was
simply sent to help us, and who is above deceit
of any Ibid,' cried Aggie, indignantly.

'Do you know much of him?' asked Sam,
curiously.

I know he acted for the best,' said Aggie,
or what he thought was the best in our service.'


His name is Redclove, I hear,' replied Sam ;
was not the woman who supplanted mother a
Redclove too f

Yes.'

And yet a sharp woman like you sees no
hidden motive in this charity I'

I see a desire to help us in those who might
have helped us earlier with better grace, perhaps
; but I feel certain that when Hamilton
Redclove came to Liverpool he had only one
idea— that of benefiting us.'

'I will try to believe it,' Sam said, more
heartily ; ' moreover,'this Mr. Redclove shall find
me not lacking in thanks when I pay him back
his money.'

E 2

University OF

Let me say again how glad I am you are
able to restore it. I wish you had only come
back for that — and for me,' she added.

You will not say so presently, when God's
truth comes to us — when — ' he began, with
some excitement, before he checked himself,
and added, in a calmer tone, 'but we are a
couple of parrots, Aggie, and talk too much.'

We have not seen each other for so long a
time, Sam.'

And we used to trust each other.'

Yes.'

Even when I ran wild it was you who took
my part,' he continued. ' Now I have sobered
down, and become a respectable member of
society, the confidence is failing you most
strangely.'

Why do you tell me this again V

Because as suddenly and strangely I may
want your whole confidence in, me,' he said, earnestly,
' because I must have it.'

He walked to the window as if these were his
last words; he turned and looked towards his
sister thoughtfully regarding him, he came back

sand flung himself in the chair old Mrs. Danger-field
had quitted.

Sit down, Aggie,' he said, impatiently, ' I
have not told you how I was saved to this
work — and perhaps it may teach you to understand
me better, and to trust me more. For you
do doubt me !' he cried once more, almost resentfully.


Agnes Challis sat down and confronted him.

I only doubt the wisdom of your next step,
Sam,' she answered.

i\.nd I was never very wisest he said, lightly
again ; ' but a few words now — and then goodnight.
How the snow drifts I' he said, glancing
towards the curtained window, which
had been opened to admit him at an earlier
hour.

Agnes waited for his communication very
patiently. He did not seem in a hurry to
commence, late as was the night ; he sat looking
at the fire as at a problem that perplexed him.
His first words told what was in his thoughts
still.

No, I cannot imagine Agffie Challis, the

mother's favourite, the girl who took her
mother's troubles so much to heart as to make
them all her own, siding with the enemy against
me. But,' he added, with a stamp of his foot
on the rug, ' I will not think of that. I am going
to tell you why I did not keep my word at
Liverpool.'

'Weir

A fit stopped me.'

'Poor Sam I' cried Aggie.

I went back to the fiddler's den. Supple
was dead, and he had been good to me
living, now and then. Once I should have
starved without him. I Avished to give him a
decent sort of funeral, and leave something for
his daughter, who was a cripple. But she
served me badly — she robbed me. It is a long
story, which I will tell you at a more fitting
time, not now. Whether it was the drink of
the night before, or the terrible excitement at
the loss of the money, or the coming on of a
fever I had caught of old Cuppleditch, God
knows ; but I went down like a stone. When
I came round I was lying in the bed by the side

of the dead man, whom they had shoved close
to the wall to make room for me ; it was past
the horn' at which I had to meet Mr. Redclove^
the place was empty and everybody gone.
They had all hooked it, and I was off my nut
from that time till days and days afterwards,
when everyone was thinking what a vagabond I
was.'

As he went back to the old times, to that old
di-eadfnl past from which, as by a miracle, he
had emerged, so he went back to the slang of
the streets, as more appropriate to the scene he
sketched tins rapidly.

Well, the parish bmied old Cuppledith, after
all, and took care of me,' he said. ' His daughter
did not follow him to the funeral, which was a
trifle unfilial ; but then there was a man in the
case, and Nance had come into money ! And
men and money together make women happy
and forgetful !'

He gave vent to his short laugh again, and
Agnes said,

How did you succeed in life after this disappointment
?'

^ The parish folk got me a berth on board ship
when I was better — they weren't so bad, that
lot! — and I went away, never telling a son
-about my loss, because I felt there was never a
soul who could possibly believe me. I kept it
all to myself, and I don't think brooding on it
did me any harm ; for when I was out west, and
found myself in harness, and sa^^ng money, justa
little, the thought came to me to pay the
money back, at any cost, at any sacrifice, to
prove I was not the ungrateful devil the world
thought me. AVell, it has been hard work, but
I have saved the money in five years and a
half.'

Thank Heaven !'

There, that's the story. Is it a very bad
one, AgV

No.'

We shall be rid of one obligation when the
money is paid, but I think— at least, I will try
not to think,' he said, correcting himself, ' that
the Redcloves will be sorry when the money is
paid.'

Does the payment of the money cancel the
obligation, Sam V

If — but, there, yon fight on their side, not
mine. I am a stranger to you yet'

He sprang to his feet, put his hands on her
shoulders, and kissed her.

Good-night. Let me out into the snow ; I
can find my way home better this way.'

And tomorrow V

To-morrow we shall meet again.'

Do yon know — have you heard — that Daniel
Overdown is at Grating? That he will be
here tomorrow too V asked Aggie.

Here ! — for what purpose T

To ask me to become his wife.'

You have kept this most sting news to the
last, x\ggie,' he said, walking the whole length
of the room, and turning once again as if to
reconsider the statement. ' Daniel Overdown,
you say ? — the man who tried to reform me and
failed, whom I could not bear when I was
young, he was so very good, and I so bad!
And yet, he teas good ; there was no sham about
him ; and his was the first helping hand in the
days of our collapse. Do you love him V

It was the same question which old Mrs.

Dangerfield had recently put to her, and she
half shrank from it again.

I — I don't know that I love him in the way
a man should be loved who asks to be my
husband,' said Aggie, hesitatingly.

Do you love anyone better V was the shrewd
inquiry now.

No,' said A gie, after a moment's pause.

You will marry Dan Over down then, to a
certainty.'

I cannot say,' answered Aggie Challis, looking
down.

Ah ! but I can,' he answered, confidently ; ' I
think he deserves you, Aggie, for his faith. And
if some day you should be rich — very rich —
why, an honest man deserves prosperity also,
and I will not begrudge it him, for one. Goodnight.'


Good-night, Sam.'

The brother took up his hat, opened the
window, and passed out into the snow, and the
sister smiled at him a farewell before she fastened
the lock, secured the shutters, and drew
the heavy curtains close again. She was the

last up in the house, she thought, and she
extinguished the wax lights — which had burned
very low that night — and found her way intc»
the broad hall beyond by a second door, not
communicating with the dining-room.

There were oil-lamps in the hall and corridors,
and these she turned low as she passed to her
room, like a careful housekeeper as she was.
The business of that long day was at an end,
and she was very weary. What a day of incident
it had been, and how the world had
stirred itself of late to keep her brain throbbing
and her pulse at fever-heat. Three figures had
marched to the foreground of her life that day
the three who were to influence it most — and
each, in his turn, had dismayed and depressed
her by all that he had said, though each had
spoken of his faith in her. It was a day of
many doubts, wherein she had been doubted,
too, and where friends seemed vanishing away
rather than advancing.

She would be very glad to rest.

AVould it have been as well for her if she had
been as restless that night as Frances Danger-field,

who sat within her room, waiting for the
stillness of the house to assure her it was safe
to act? It was she who, from her window, and
at an earlier hour, had seen the figure of a man
stealing towards the drawing-room, who had
heard him admitted into the house, and who,
behoving it to be Hamilton Redclove — Aggie's
lover — had stolen downstairs, when Estelle was
asleep, to confound the assignation. It was she
who had been amazed b}' Sam Challis's return —
not Hamilton's — and whose religious principles
were not strong enough, after all, to turn her
from an act of eaves dropping now that a new
danger seemed advancing to her rapidly.

Yes, a new and awful danger — she was sure
of it. She had tried to live it down, to set it
aside, but it was beyond her strength, and the
trouble was close upon her. This was no longer
the incoherencies of an old woman who might
be going mad again, but the hints, the convictions
of a resolute man to confirm all that she
feared, and had tried hard not to fear. Still she
would not, could not, believe the worst until
the proof was evident, and that proof was hidden

in the sealed study of the late Paul Erasmus
Wilberforce Dangerfield, or it was not existent.
She would like to know the truth of it — the
whole truth. She would be glad to be prepared
at any cost now, even the bitter cost of her own
self-esteem. It was a temptation, and she gave
way to it. To resist would have been saintlike,
and, alas, she was only a poor, weak, sinful
mortal, after all !

There was not an hour to be lost ; and when
the night was an hour later by the timepiece on
her mantel shelf, and Estelle was sleeping soundly,
the figure in the list slippers and dark dress
once more stole from her room, stood in the
shadowy corridor Avithout, listening for an instant,
and then passed noiselessly to the next
door, which was ajar, and which she pushed
open softly.

The keys,' she whispered to herself, as she
crept in — a woman roused to action at last, and
a woman at bay !

CHAPTER XXXV.

CRUEL TRUTH.

The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield had not
adopted this unceremonious method of procedure
without a sharp struggle with the conscience
which she possessed. She was a woman
Avhom a suspicious nature had made miserable
all her life, and was now to render guilty,
though in that hour she would have been loth
to acknowledge it. Important papers of her
husband, she reasoned — papers not committed
to the care of the mother by any special trust —
were hidden from her by one who had no legal
claim to them, and they Avere hers by right of
widowhood. Surely, if these documents were

likely to affect her interest, or throw a light
upon a past that had been always incomprehensible,
or were necessary to prepare herself
against the future, to resist or to succumb to it,
no one had a greater right to them than she.
She could not leave it all now till her husband's
mother died ; she should be in London, and
these Challises would have her at their mercy,
if she were not on guard. The man who had
some upon the scene like a fate there was no
resisting, the stern fate, in which the old woman
lying there believed, was no weak mortal to
cope with. He talked of his rights ; he came
as an avenger of what he termed his mother's
wrongs ; there would be no justice at his hands,
and much trouble would ensue. Even Barnes
Challis had suffered imprisonment in her eagerness
to obtain possession of papers of which her
mother was aware ; only she, Frances Danger-field,
the woman with the greatest claim to
them, had been kept in the dark. She only
wanted justice for herself, she thought ; it was
not in her heart to steal or destroy the documents,
but to be prepared for the nature of

their contents, and so on an equal footing with
those who might think it worth their while to
deceive her. There was no one at Overcome
whom she could trust, she felt assured.

She had reasoned out this theory long before
the moment when she was standing in the room
with her watchful eyes directed to the sleeping
figure in the bed. In the time of action she was
as alert and cunning as if such base business
had been the study of her life. There were no
scruples of conscience, no hesitation now ; she
was as firm as Macbeth's wife, and as determinate
of purpose. She stood in the shadow of
the heavy draperies hanging from the cornice
of a huge, old-fashioned bedstead, and listened
to the fitful breathing of the sleeper, who was
beset by restless dreams that night. She was
cautious to a degree, and no statue could have
shown less signs of animation, until the muttering
of the one distressed by sleep had ceased.
Then Frances Dangerfield glided like a ghost
across the room towards the toilette-table, and
to a basket thereon, which she carefully inspected.
Another pause, and the woman on watch

turned towards the dress which the mistress of
the house had worn that evening ; crouching
away from the rays of the night-lamp, whilst
she searched the pockets. The clink of the
keys — old Mrs., Dangerfield's private keys —
sounded for a moment in the stillness with an
ominous rattle of steel, suggesting treachery,
and the woman in the bed tossed to and fro, as
though half warned of felony.

Therese,' she called, with startling distinctness
; but the maid was sleeping heavily in the
adjoining chamber, and did not hear her. Old
Mrs. Dangerfield was accustomed to ramble in
her slumbers, and Therese was not likely
to wake and listen to the wanderings of her
mistress.

Paul !' was Mrs. Dangerfield's next cry ;
< Paul, why don't you come and help me I'

For an instant Frances wavered , as detection
seemed imminent; her hold upon the
keys relaxed, as this sudden appeal for help
from the helpless dead was wailed forth in the
night.

When the muttering of the sleeper ceased

VOL. III. F

again, however, the intruder was making softly
for the door, with the keys held tightly in her
hand. Another instant and Frances Danger-field
was passing along the corridor with swift,
silent feet ; the time for hesitation was over forever,
the goal was in reach, and the truth was
close upon her. She had studied the house at
Overcome of late days, and every turn of it
was as familiar to her as to the servants. Her
late husband's study was far away on the same
floor, a room that overlooked the park land, and
must have been a pleasant place for musing in
the old summer days gone by, when Paul Dan-garfield
sat at his open window, with romance
before him, and passion growing on him, and
the misery of all its complications not apparent
in his day-dreams.

Since his death, the study had been closed
and locked, and had been only opened twice ;
once to be vigorously searched by those who took
in hand the arrangement of old Mrs. Dangerfield's
estate, and once when papers from Chester had
been brought here and locked in the iron safe,
along with her new will.

Frances Dangerfield stood before the door of
the study, with the keys in her calm hands. She
had steeled herself to the ordeal, and was not to
be dismayed by any nervous feelings of apprehension
at the eleventh hour. There was a
great task to be done, and she was on the eve
of its accomplishment. The long steel key on
the bunch was the key of the study door, she
fancied, and she was right. The wards of the
lock turned with it at once — harshly and
gratingly like a lock in disuse — and the door
opened on the dust and darkness of the room
itself.

At last !' she muttered.

There was an oil-lamp on a bracket half-way
down the corridor, and the woman abroad that
night went back for it, and returned with it in
her hand. She entered the study of the dead
husband, closed the door upon herself, and locked
it carefully. Now she was safe from intrusion,
and at the worst — in the very face of detection,
if it came there — she would defy them
all, and assert her rights. She was in her husband's
room, with her husband's books and

f2

papers; and who was living to challenge her
privilege to be there? She had a right here
long since, but had not availed herself of it
after her husband's death, and her mother-in-law's
affliction : she had asked no questions
then, and had been too proud, or too apathetic,
to be inquisitive. In his lifetime, when Paul
had seemed to be content with life, and she had
trusted him, he had spoken of his room at Overcome,
and of the books which he might bring
to town when time would give him the chance,
and they were on a visit to his mother ; but
time had passed on to eternity with one of
them, the visit had been never paid, and
the study was almost as it used to be in his
day.

There was a close air in the room, a smell of
mouldy furniture, old books, and musty papers,
natural to a place thrown out of gear, and
under lock and key ; the blind before the window
had remained undrawn for years, and was
coated thickly with dust ; there had been no
living hands upon the volumes in their open
cases, or on the oaken table, Adhere magazines

and pamphlets of forgotten years lay heaped
together ; cobwebs of strange length and thickness
hung pendant from the ceiling, one having
been span in a fantastic pattern from a bust of
Shakespeare on the mantel-piece, to an old
bronze table-lamp upon a library desk adjacent.
The mildew of neglect lay like a pall
on everything.

In a corner of the room was the iron safe, to
which the mother had alluded, and the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield had not stopped to gaze
around her, but gone at once to the object of
her search. There was no sentiment from the
widow in this chamber of dust and ashes — it
appealed not to her feelings in any way. Paul
Dangerfield was not a husband who had died in
the honour of love and glory of fidelity ; she
had kept his secret without treasuring his memory
; she had respected his name, but not the
owner of it ; in her heart this strong woman
had never forgiven him his trespass against her.
Why should she ? What was he to her, after
the discovery of his treachery, but a blight upon
her life here? — the evil he had done lived

after him, and she was still on guard to fight
it.

She placed the lamp on the top of the safe,
and looked carefully over the keys, fixing on
the right one by the name of the maker stamped
on the steel ring of the handle. The key turned,
and, with an effort, Frances Dangerfield swung
open the heavy iron door, and took down the
lamp again to throw a light upon the search.
The safe was nearly empty — there was a nest
of iron drawers at the bottom, and above them
lay the papers for which she had come in search
a heap of old letters, tied round with gi-been
ribbon, together with sundry memoranda in her
husband's handwriting, secured together by red
tape. Below them, and in a big envelope, unsealed,
was the will of the present mistress of
Overcome , but she was honest in her transgressions,
and did not care to open it. It was
not her business, until old Mrs. Dangerfield
died ; she would not have looked at it then, had
the temptation been a hundred fold what it was.
But these papers were her own, and had been
secreted from her ; — here was the history of the

troubles and temptations of Paul Daugerfield —
the cine to the mystery which he had ever kept
from her, and she had vainly guessed at — the
letters of the rival who had supplanted her, and
brought about the misery of her life.

She set the lamp upon the chair away from
her, and took the first letter to her hand. She
stared at the date upon the envelope, the postmark
of a time before she was married to Paul
Dangerfield, and then opened it ■\^^th trembling
and unflinching fingers.

So long ago as this, then, it began,' she
murmured, as she bent over the paper, the first
line of which was the stab for which she had
thought herself prepared, but which went deep
down into her heart.

My dear husband f

The fair head — for Frances Dangerfield was
still fair — bent at once in horror and despair
over the letter which she held. The cruel truth,
after all, was too strong for the woman whose
pride had outlived her affection.

It can't be true !' she whispered rebelliously
again ; * he would never have been so great a
villain as this !'

She flung the letter to the floor, as though it
had stung her like a serpent, and seized the
papers which were with the letters, and the
string of which she broke in her impatience.
Her calmness had deserted her at last, and the
papers were wildly scattered about the carpet,
until she groped upon the floor in the dust that
lay thick there, greedily collecting and counting
them. One long strip of printed paper,
with writing interlined, attracted her notice —
the one conclusive, damning piece of evidence
Which had Wrecked the mother's mind before
the wife was struck down in her turn. She
tore it open eagerly. It was the marriage certificate
of Paul Erasmus Wilberforce Danger-field,
gentleman, with Agnes Challis, spinster —
and it bore a date of three years before her own
unhappy match.

Great God ! — they were married, then !' she
exclaimed. She let the papers fall once more,
covered her face with the hands which had released
them, and rocked herself slowly to and
fro in her new misery. Yes, a new misery, and
with it a new temptation and new life. She

wondered how it would end, and what would
become of them all, even in the midst of the
soul's agony with which her woman's strength
was vainly battling in that terrible lion of her
defeat.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

WAITING FOR HIM.

The late morning dawned at Overcome as if
nothing had happened to distress the inmates of
that establishment, and Hfe began to stir there
shortly afterwards. The servants were down
early, and old Mrs. Dangerfield, waking early
also, was found in her arm-chair in the 
by Agnes Challis, who was the first
visitor to make her appearance.

I did not expect you would be down so soon
as this, grand mamma,' said Agnes, as , she
stooped and kissed her.

I could not rest. I have not slept all night,'
she answered, with that cool disregard for the

real facts of the case in which people moderately
wakeful invariably indulge.

Indeed ! Yon are not looking the worse for
it,' said Aggie.

I daresay I shall feel the worse for it presently.
Did yorn- brother stay long after I had
bidden him good-night V

Not a great while.'

It will take time to groan used to him. I
wanted to speak of him before Frances and
Estelle came down this morning. Shall I
trouble you too much T

No.'

I don't quite trust him yet,' said the old
lady ; ' I have given him up for good so long —
but I don't wholly distrust him, Agnes. I can't,
With that look upon his face, which seems to
ask you for your confidence. If he should turnout
an honest man, I leave it to you to do your
best for him. I can't leave that trust in better
and more able hands,' she said, Idndly ; ' and
there will be enough money for you both.'

Pray, don't speak of this again.'

Of what V

< Of the future, which, you say, will leave me
rich. I don't look for wealth — under some circumstances,
I would prefer to be poor.'

Strange young woman, who would prefer to
be friendless!' observed the old lady; *but,
there, I have done with that subject. Now I
have something else to ask you. Have you
made up your mind about accepting Daniel
Overdo wn V

No,' answered Aggie.

Not yet 1 Why, perhaps you will not have
him, after all !'

'I don't know. I want to tell him — I wish
him to be aware — oh ! don't talk to me, please,
now,' cried Aggie, turning pale, and wringing
her hands together piteously.

You want time to consider this again — or do
you want advice from one who has known the
world longer than you have, child?'

1 only want time,' was the reply ; ' I shall
decide correctly when that time comes.'

You are looking very miserable over it. Goto
your own room, and breakfast there. You
will not care to face these two Dangerfield
women this morning.'

I am not afraid of them,' said Aggie, faintly
smiling, ' and I do not suppose their ill-feeling
will be long-lived, when they know the truth.'

May I tell it to them?'

No ; let them discover it for themselves,' was
the reply.

Old Mrs. Dangerfield nodded her head, as if
in acquiescence, and Aggie Challis retired to her
room at the hint conveyed by her grandmother.
There was a little sitting-room upstairs, and
contiguous to her bed-room, that had been
placed at the disposal of Agnes during her
stay at Overcome, and here she breakfasted
quietly, and endeavoured to shape out her
resolutions, which still wavered strangely and
unaccountably. She would be glad when it
was all over, she thought ; when, one way or
another, she knew how it Avould end, and what
lay before her. She was almost certain now
that she did not love Daniel Overdown ; she
was sure there was no fervour of affection to
set her heart beating at his name, and make of
him, in every thought and dream, a lover to
be idolized. That might be the love of poets,

in their rhymes, but not of common men and
women, who had their bread to earn, and the
grim realities of life to encounter.

And yet how he loved her ; how patiently he
had Awaited for her ; how deeply he had studied
her ; how generously he had let her go away
to a higher sphere than his own, rather than
bind her by a word to him ! He had had great
confidence in himself, and in her affection for
him — she had always loved Dan Overdown, in
her own way — and she Alas aware long ago,
perhaps, that Dan loved her with all the
strength of his honest nature. Could she break
his heart by refusing him now — by telling him
that his world was not hers, and there was
no retracing her steps ? Could she tell him
that she was likely to be rich some day, and
that she could not share her riches with one
who would have shared his last crust with
her? Would he not think it wis the money
which had risen in his Avay to her; that her
expectations ' had hardened her against him,
and set her thinking of another lover, who
would forget her prison-life and antecedents,

not for her own sake, as he would do, bnt for
the dowry she would bring with her to the
altar ?

What would he think of me V she murmured,
with her gaze directed to the avenue of leafless
trees, and the snow-covered road beneath,
along which he would be advancing presently
for the one answer to his life. Oh ! for a few
more hom-s to think of this — for him to think of
this — and the time not so close upon her !

She was gazing from the window still, with
far-away thoughts that would distract her —
thoughts of Hamilton Redclove, and of all that
he had said and looked, and dreamy wonderment
as to what he might have meant in
his last outburst of excitement, when he had
discovered her in tears — when two warm arms
stole round her, and a rain of kisses fell upon her
face.

Estelle !' she cried, when she had recovered
her surprise.

Ah ! you will never forgive me,' Estelle
cried. ' I have let you see what an ungenerous,
jealous, wicked girl I am — I am not

worthy any woman's trust — but think the best
of me that you can. Try to think the best of
me!'

More sighs and tears, and passionate embracements
before Agnes ChalKs was allowed to answer
for herself.

*I have not a great deal to forgive, Estelle,'
she said.

You have — you have !' reiterated the half-sister.


You have suspected me a little ; but you are
naturally suspicious, and I was walking in the
fields yesterday with your cousin.'

I have been very wrong — I have thought so
meanly of you — I had built up such a story of
deceit and falsehood that I blush to think of it.
Oh, Aggie she cried, ' pray forgive me ! I will
never — never — have an unjust thought of jon
again — I will love you, next to Jim, for all the
rest of my life.'

There, there, Estelle — forgiven very freely
all that there is to forgive,' said ignes. ' Now,
tell me what has brought back the affection
Which 1 thought was gone for ever V

I did not know you had a lover, Aggie,' replied
Estelle.

^ Ah ! — who told you this V

Mamma — my dear mamma — who takes your
part this morning, and tells me how wrongly I
have judged you.'

You and she together, Estelle.'

Yes; both of us.'

Your grand mamma has betrayed my confidence,
despite my wish to the contrary,' said
Aggie, with a sigh ; ' there is no trusting any of
you. A promise goes for nothing — a secret is
not Avorth treasuring, even though its disclosure
may bring bitter pain. I did not want you to
know this, Estelle.'

But I knew it already,' replied she ; * did you
not tell me something of this before V

That 1 had a lover — hardly. But what I did
tell you, in confidence, you let Hamilton Red-clove
know at once.'

No, no ; I don't think it was that exactly,'
said Estelle, in some confusion ; ' I — I only
said '

It does not signify,' said Agnes, interrupting
VOL. III. G

her ; ' my life is very strongly marked, and I am
above disguising it. If yom grand mamma had
waited a few hours, though.'

She has not spoken to me or mamma,' said
Estelle, interrupting in her turn; 'we have
not exchanged a word concerning you this
morning.'

They must have met last night again,' said
Agnes Challis, musingly; 'your grandmamma
must have come straight to your room.'

'No; mamma Avent to hers — that is, I remember
waking suddenly from sleep and
missing her, and waiting till she came
back to me. Oh, what a fright she gave me,
Aggie !'

Indeed !'

She came in as white as a ghost, dear,'
said Estelle ; ' she had been frightened herself
— grand mamma had called out in her sleep,
and she had gone in to make sure that she was
well'

And then they sat together talking about
me,' said Agnes — ' a curious subject, that had
better have been postponed.'

Then yon would not have had me to trouble
you this morning, you mean,' said Estelle, pouting
a little.

Scarcely that, Estelle. I am glad I have
come nearer your stormy little heart again,'
said Aggie, smiling sadly; 'but don't you
know — you who are so well posted up in
my affairs — that I am waiting here in solemn
state, to receive the lover you have spoken
of?'

'Yes, I know that,' Estelle confessed ; ' I
heard Mr. Overdown was coming here this
morning.'

They have not let much of the news escape,
Estelle r

The younger girl laughed gaily ; the clouds
had vanished, and she was happy and loving
again, and there was hope before her. There
was always hope with Hamilton close at hand,
and no other woman in the way.

Well, what does it matter, Aggie V she cried.
Should I not have seen him here half-an-hour
hence, and been introduced to him, and heard
will from your own lips V

g2

I don't know,' said Agnes, thoughtfully.

Estelle dropped at Agnes's feet, crossed her
hands on her lap, and looked up into the soft,
fair face bent over her.

Tell me all about him, please ; I am dying to
hear.'

I have nothing to relate, Estelle. I have no
more secrets to confess,' was the reply.

No ; but what is he like — is he fair or dark ?
where did you meet him ? how is it you have
never mentioned his name? what made you love
him ? how did it begin ? and when ? and who
began it ? What made you think he '

The torrent of questions was disturbed in its
flow by Aggie's little hand being placed over
the busy mouth of Estelle.

I cannot answer any of those questions,
baby,' cried Agnes ; ' they would take a week to
reply to, and lead to others more embarrassing.'

'Is he very handsome?' she murmured, from
beneath the hand still lightly pressed upon her
mouth ; ' you will tell me that, won't you ?'

I will not tell you anything. I have not
owned I love anybody yet,' said Aggie. * Estelle,

yon will leave me now, please. I don't think I
can bear any more at present, even from yon.'
Why, how grave yon have become !'
These are grave times,' was the enigmatic
answer.'

If I have said anything to pain yon, dear, I
am very, very sorry,' cried Estelle.

Agnes shook her head, as Estelle rose to her
feet and stood regarding her with a little consternation.
Agnes only yearned to be alone —
she would be at peace with herself for a few
minutes before Daniel Overdown came upon the
scene. The half-sister took the hint conveyed,
and moved towards the door, coming back
again, with an impetuous rush, to pnt her arms
about her neck and kiss her many times.

'• There shall never be an angry thought between
us again, and yon shall be always my
best friend, if yon will love me,' she murmured.
Oh ! make no rash promises, Estelle.'
Yon have not quite forgiven me, I see V
Yes, I have,' answered Aggie. ' Good-bye,
child ; say good-bye now for a little while, as I
-wish yon. I insist.'

Agnes had seen Daniel Overdown advancing
along the avenue, with a companion by his side
her brother Sam. Estelle turned quickly,
IblloAving her gaze, and taking no heed of her
commands.

*He is coming — let me see him !' cried Estelle,
'just for one moment before I go away.'

Agnes Challis sat back and did not say
another word. Her heart was throbbing painfully,
and the trouble of a whole life seemed to
come suddenly upon her with a force that took
all strength and power of will away. What
should she do ? what could she do ?

Meanwhile Estelle, standing a little aside,
watched the two men approaching, with great
interest and grave surprise. Her big grey eyes
widened at their nearer approach, and she turned
suddenly to Aggie.

'Which one,' she cried, 'which one can it
bes

Agnes Challis did not answer — did not seem
to hear her.

The younger one, the taller, is not bad-looking.
Is it he V

That is my brother,' answered Agnes, very
pale now.

Your brother !'

Yes.'

Oh ! Agnes, surely it is not — it cannot be the
other one,' said Estelle, getting over the shock
of this unlooked-for revelation in her curiosity
concerning Daniel Overdown. ' Why, he is '

Agnes Challis stopped her quickly.

He is the best friend 1 ever had in my life —
the truest, most faithful and most earnest,' she
said, very firmly.

Estelle stooped and kissed her for the very
last time that morning.

I have only to say, dear, that I hope every
happiness may be yours,' she murmured. ' Goodbye
again, God bless you ; good-bye.'

She darted from the room, and Aggie Challis
clasped her hands together and waited for her
lover's coming.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

DAN S COURTSHIP.

Daniel Overdown was not long in finding his
way into the presence of Agnes Chalhs. He
and Sam had come along the avenue at a shai-p
pace, and there had been no time wasted en
route.

When the servant admitted him and announced
his name, Agnes rose and shook hands
with him, painfully conscious of the long, steady
stare with which he favoured her.

What a change since yesterday !' were his
first words, after wishing her good-morning ;
then he added — ' I mean in the weather.'

'Yes, a great change. You did not come
across the fields to-day, Dan?'

*I should have lost my way, and not have
got here at all,' he replied.

They sat down at a little distance from each
other — each embarrassed; Daniel Overdo wn the
more nervous of the two. It was courting in
cold blood, to begin with ; it was a formally
arranged piece of business which took all the
romance and poetry ont of it, if any lead ever
existed. The daylight was so strong and clear
upon them both, and he looked so unlike a
lover, sitting there.

You have seen my brother V Aggie Challis
asked, ' It was he who was with you in the
avenue just now.'

Yes. He called on me this morning,' replied
Dan, ' and we have walked from Grayling to
Overcome together. He has changed very
much for the better; he is a straightforward,
clear-headed, sensible young chap, Aggie, who
will get on in the world.'

I hope he will.'

I like Sam,' affirmed Dan Overdown ; ' he is
a man without any nonsense in him, and not
likely to stand much nonsense in anybody else.

Not a first-rate good temper, certainly ; not too
truthful, probably; but then what a terrible
training he had before a gleam of good-luck fell
to his share.'

^ Where ishef

He turned back towards the village,' answered
Dan ; ' he said he would not disturb you
at present, and it Alas not very likely I was
going to press him to come on.'

Daniel Overdown laughed, and then, meeting
with no responsive smile on the face of his
companion, he became preternaturally grave.

Has he told you of the manner in which he
lost the money Mr. Redclove gave him at
Liverpool?' inquired Agnes.

'Yes. He has been telling me also — but
there, I haven't come to talk about your
brother. You know that.'

This was sharply, almost irritably said. He
had an object in view, and he did not care to
go round about it in a helpless and pm-possess
fashion, though he felt less bold that morning
than he had bargained for. He had had much
to trouble him last night ; there had been a host

of ugly thoughts to resist, and the life beyond
had seemed suddenly full of uncertainty. He
"was not himself — he might never be his old self
again — but he would prefer knowing the worst
or the best to dreaming on as he had done
during the last twelve hours.

Is that any reason you should be cross with
me T inquired Agnes, sadly.

'No, God forbid,' he said, hastily. 'Don't
mind me, Aggie. I Alas awfully bothered last
night ; I haven't slept a wink for thinking of"
you, and of all I was going to say to-day. Now
let us get this over for once and all, gh'l.'

He drew his chair, with a sudden jerk, more
closely to hers, and faced her with an earnestness
that made her heart sink again, despite her
struggle ^Yit]l it.

I shan surprise you very much, Aggie, by
saying I Avant you to become my Avifc,' he
began. ' I daresay, despite myself, you have
often guessed I had that idea in my mind when
you and I were in Prosser Street with the old
people. I kept it back as well as 1 could, in
fair-play to you, who had a right to look round

for yourself, and were going away to new
friends. But, Aggie, that love was my existence
— the best part of it, and I shall be a wreck
without it.'

Oh ! Dan, don't tell me so !'

It's only the truth ; don't let it frighten you,'
he said. ' It may be my fault for being a fool,
for not knowing myself better and you better,
and letting a fancy grow into a great big passion,
which holds me in a vice and chokes me.
I can't think of anything else save you ; you
come between me and everything I set my
hand to — you are the end of my life !'

He had grown excited in his pleading, and
his dark eyes were ablaze with fire now. Agnes
had not expected this Warmth of expression
from him, had even anticipated that businesslike,
confident air which had invariably characterised
his demeanour, and had been ever
impressive when accompanied by that earnestness
which was seldom lacking in him. But
this force of passion was new in Daniel Over-down,
and she shrank from it in her astonishment
and sorrow. Yes, sorrow ! Nothing that

lie had said had given her one moment's joy,
one bhssfiil leap of her heart towards his own,
the silent rapt acknowledgment of his power
over hers. She was grateful to him for the
past, she could believe in the truth of every
word he uttered ; but she was afraid of him, and
could not answer yet.

He seemed to wait a moment for her own
reply, and, failing to obtain it, he went on again.

I know I am not fit for you, Aggie,' he
continued ; ' that's a plain truth which has been
forced upon me very strongly lately by my own
will and by other people. I know how much
too good you are for me.'

No, no, Dan,' in-get Aggie ; ' that is not
true.'

I know how you have grown to be a lady,'
he continued, ' and I have remained the same
rough fellow whom you knew at first, but
whose roughness did not scare you as it may do
now. I see all this so plainly, that I wonder at
my impudence — my cheek! — in walking into
this grand house and asking you to go back to
Prosser Street and become a gunsmith's Avise. I

seem to have got in your way, an ugly black
obstruction to a life that would be happier
without me, unless you love me — oh, unless you
love me, Aggie ! I thought you did yesterday,'
he continued ; ' I can't believe it quite to-day,
until you tell me for yourself all that's in your
heart. But, if you say there's love there, God
Almighty only guesses what a happy day this is
for me.'

His voice trembled with the passion that was
in him, and the tears welled to the eyes of his
listener.

What can I say V she murmured.

The truth,' he answered, ' and never mind
me for one instant. You have yourself to consider,
first of all, and I would not have you
come to me an unwilling woman, even for the
happiness I have been raving about. You have
rich friends here who may make you rich, and
set you apart from me completely. I am only a
foreman in a factory, and can never be much
else. Still, there is no one in all the world to
love you as I love you ; and I am waiting for
my answer.'

CHAPTER Xxxviii.

aggie's answer.

It was not easy for x\ggie Challis to reply — it
was, for a while, even beyond her power.
Daniel Overdown had explained the state of his
feelings very clearly and forcibly, and was
waiting for her answer, but words were lacking
yet on the part of his listener with which to
assure him or confound him. If she were less
sorry for him than she was, if there had been
more love than pity in her heart towards him, if
the future did not seem so dull and desolate,
the effort to say ' Yes ' would not have been a
difficult task. Here was one man's happiness to
be secured by a word — and that man had set

himself the task of saving her, had consoled her
mother's homes by the promise to look after her
when she came out of prison, and who, fighting
hard to live himself, had never swerved from
his task — and yet the word rose not readily to
her lips.

She had tm-ned very white, and Daniel Over-down,
watchful as a lynx, had observed this
With a sense of growing despair, although he
sat before her now outwardly unmoved. He
was the prisoner of his passion awaiting the
sentence of his judge. Agnes felt compelled to
say something — the silence had become painful
and unnatural.

I should have liked more time, Dan, to — to
answer you,' she murmured, feebly.

I don't think it is necessary,' was his reply ;
you must know what you think about me
pretty well by this time.'

No, I don't,' she confessed, in a weak voice.
< That hardly seems possible,' said Daniel
OverdoAvn, shaking his head gravely.

You don't appear to think this is a surprise
to me,' reasoned Aggie, ' and that it was only

yesterday you hinted at the truth for the first
time. What my feelings are towards you, Dan,
in all respects save in the new position you have
taken up, I know, of course ; but they are not
the feelings which you claim. I know how
much 1 esteem you for a friend — how good
and unselfish you are — how invariably kind you
have always been, but I do not know my own
heart. There !'

You love another man,' he answered, moodily.

I deny it,' she cried, at once ; ' there is no
other man who has ever spoken a word of love
to me but you.'

That Mr. Redclove is a wiser man than I
thought him,' muttered Dan.

What do you mean 1 what has he said V said
Aggie, quickly roused at the mention of his
name.

I had a long talk with him at the '• Lion '*
last night — did I not say so V

'No.'

'I am a bit confused. I have forgotten
everything in the dash at you, which has
frightened you so much,' he said, mournfully.

VOL. III. H

'I am not frightened, Dan,' replied Aggie;
< but now tell me, if you please, why you consider
Mr. Redclove a wise man V

she is a man of the world, Who seems to
understand women, and sums them up more
cleverly than I do — because he has more to do
with them, I daresay.'

Did he speak of me last night V

Oh, yes.'

Of you and me together?'

« ides. He was interested in us both, or pretended
to be, and he got rather warm in his
argument.'

'Tell me what he said,' Agnes asked, impatiently.


Well,' said Dan, with reluctance, ' he said
you would be choosing misery and slavery —
those were his words — in choosing me, and he
had told you so already and offended you.
He said I was not fit for you — that you would
be able to do much better for yourself, being
a lady now, and I being a journeyman gunsmith
still. Well, God knows I haven't shirked
the comparison — I was saying the same

thing myself only a minute or two ago to you,
but not as he said it — not with his contempt
for a man so low clown in the scale as I am —
not with his bitter sneers at the class I belonged.'


He was cruel,' cried Aggie, indignantly, ' he
had no right to talk of me, and to insult you ashe
has done.'

I don't know,' said Dan, irresolutely ; ' I led
up to the subject, being full of it, and considering
him a friend, and we talked of
you for a long time. It was his candid opinion
and he out with it, not caring how I should
take it, or thinking I was strong enough to
bear it, but he had said before that, mind you,
much that was comforting and cheering tome.'


'What was that?' said Aggie, still intensely
curious.

I told him I had come to Grayling to propose
to you.'

How foolish that was I' exclaimed Aggie.

Thanked,' said Dan ; ' that's plain, at any
rate.'

h2

« Yes, Dan, but it was a little foolish to let
everybody know this.'

He seemed one of us — I liked the man for
the past, as I like Mr. Fayre— and he drew me
out a bit.'

And his words of comfort — what were-they
inquired Aggie, reverting to the subject
on which her curiosity had not been
gratified.

« Wells said Dan, hesitating and stammering,
I hardly like to repeat them. He said you
thought I was the best man in the world. He
thought I had an excellent chance of winning
you — that I might be sure of you, in fact — and
he said to-day we should be swearing eternal
fidelity.'

'He dared to talk like that!' cried Aggie,
fairly roused — fairly losing that temper, over
which, at times, she exercised considerable
control.

Yes, and I thought it was particularly kind
of him.'

It was particularly rude,' she cried. ' What
right had he, almost a stranger, to speak of

the state of my feelings towards you — to
affect to know them so well as to detail them toyon
in the room of a public-house — to patronise
yon, to give yon encouragement to come hereto
— to say all that yon have said?' cried Aggie,
winding np her outburst somewhat incompetently.


Yes,' said Dan, in a disconsolate tone, ' I see
he had better have let that little game alone.
I see — why, Aggie, yon are crpng !'

'No, I am not,' she replied, hastily dashing
away some angry tears from her eyes ; ' I am
only hurt at being the common topic of this
place. Oh, what a wicked, disagreeable man he
is, Dan.'

Very likely,' said Dan, in assent.

I should hate him if I saw more of him,'
she cried ; ' I should despise his airs of superiority,
and tell him why I think so little of
him.'

1 wish you would think a little less of
what he has said, just at present, and a little
more of all that I have told you, Aggie
Daniel Overdown remarked, in mild reproof;

you break away from the one answer

wliicli you have to make, and which ' he

was silent for a minute before he added, very
mournfully, 'it is not very hard for me to
guess at.'

Yes, it is,' cried iVggie, impulsively.

Ay — what— why is it V

If you guess I am going to echo that man's
words to you, and say I am above you in the
world ; that the past is nothing to me, and I
have myself to think of now, not you — if you
guess that, you are wrong.'

My darling Aggie, you love me, then !' he
cried, starting to his feet.

Aggie turned very white again, and waved
him back into his chair by the rapid gesture of
her hands.

Hear what I have to say, Dan, whilst I have
the courage to say it,' she cried ; ' it is for your
sake as well as mine. I have no one else in all
the world to care for as I have you, and 1 will
try my best to love you. Your life depends on
me, you say ; then my duty is to make that life
content, if you ^^^ll only give me time.'

It was the old plea concluded in another form
and he echoed back the word.

Time !' he said again.

Time to consider the position — to know my
duty better, if you will, Dan ; to get used to the
knowledge that we are engaged to one another
from this day, if you will — before you ask mein
too great a hurry to call you husband.'

My dear girl,' he cried, holding both his
hands towards her, ' take any time. I have
hurried you, I see that now ; but you have
made me very happy at last.'

It is well I should have the power to make
some one happy,' she. mm-cured, still very faint
and Avhite.

Then wee are engaged to be married — a
regular engaged couple, eh?' Dan said, his
hands still extended towards her.

Yes, if you wish it,' she replied, placing her
hands in his.

He rose from his seat and kissed her, as he
had always imagined from books and poems it
was the fit and proper thing to do in cases of a
similar kind — and we believe it is allowable —

and she took his eager caress in sign of their
betrothal, but with the colour still strangely
dead in her cheek and lips.

God bless yon, Aggie !' he b^u^st forth, in 'the
fulness of his heart again ; ' I did not think five
minutes ago it was to end like this — upon my
soul I didn't, you looked so awfully straight and
solemn.'

He might laye kissed her again in his excitement,
if she had not drawn her hands from his,
and pressed them to her face, as she sat down in
the chair from which she had arisen.

I am troubling you,' he said, solicitously.
This has been too much for you ; you laye
been brooding and worrying about it. Don't
you think I had better go away for an hour or
two?'

I should be better by myself, Dan,' was her
answer.

'^ I'll be off, then,' he said. ' I'll go into the
village and find Sam, and tell him all the good
luck that has come to me this morning.'

It may be very bad luck, Dan,' she answered,
smiling faintly.

'No, no, that can't be. Under no possible
circumstances can that be the case, lass be
said, with a conclude of exultation at the result
of his wooing.

He was a considerate man in his way; he felt
it was the kindest act and the best policy to
withdraw ; there was even an instinctive fear, if
he remained much longer, that she would say
something to render the force of her promise
less conclusive and satisfactory. By herself she
would settle down to the position that they
were engaged, and feel all the happier presently
for the knowledge of the fact. He rose and
shook hands with her again ; he let one hand
fall upon her shoulder : gently and caressingly
he looked into her face, until he met a second
smile, less faint and forced than the other had
been, and one which he could almost take heart
from. Then he stooped, kissed her forehead,
and went out of the room.

That was the result of Daniel Overdown's
wooing, and it was happiness and peace of mind
to him. she had accepted him, and she was
too good a girl to say ' Yes,' if in her heart she

had meant ' No.' That was not like Aggie
ChaUis, a woman of great courage, who had
never shrunk from the truth. She loved hiiiiy
only he had scared away every evidence of her
affection just then by his rough manner of proposal.
She was ready to give up her new
friends and her grand style for him ; she was
coming back to his life, and to the home
wherein she should never know a moment's,
sorrow, if all his power and strength could keep
her from it. It was like a dream to think that
she belonged to him.

It was like a dream to Aggie Challis too,,
only she did not thrill with joy like the gunsmith.
Like a dream of wild speculations and
impossibilities, with dream-figures, very spectres
in their vagueness, flitting across her path, and
bewildering her completely ; but not a happy
dream that brought fair thoughts to her, by
shadowing forth the future as it might be.

Engaged to Daniel Over down ! It was her
duty ; it had been her answer, made in some
little haste and anger at the last, as if in defiance
of the Fate in which her grandmother believed ;

she had rendered one man happy, and should
be content herself m good time. She hoped
to make Dan rich presently, and to prove that,
when her prospects brightened, she had been
anxious he should share the brightness too.
In wealth as in poverty, always true to this
man, acknowledging his virtues, looking away
from his faults, and blind — always inevitably
blind — to the consciousness of the unfitness of
the match. They could tell her presently she
was too grand for him, as Hamilton had dared
to tell him last night — that it was a terrible
inconsistency, a social suicide, to pass from her
present life to a Birmingham back-street, and
know no greater ambition than to share his
petty struggles for existence ; and she would
answer, bravely, * What should I have been
without him ? His life was the life that saved
me.'

She was dreaming on, when Estelle came, on
tip-toe, into the room, as if Agnes were dreaming
in earnest, and a footfall might wake her too
suddenly. She crept in with a wondering face,
her eyes protruding in a way that was almost

burlesque in their eagerness of expression.

'Is it all over?' she asked, in a low whisper,
as if there were a hundred eavesdroppers in the
corridor without.

Yes, it is all over, Estelle.'

• And you have '

Estelle paused for Agnes to complete the
sentence. She was considerate at this moment,
and, from the thoughtful countenance of the
fair girl by the window, it was impossible to
read what had been Aggie's answer to the love
suit.

Accepted him,' said Aggie in reply ; and she
looked fearlessly into the eyes of her half-sister,
and spoke without a quaver in her voice.

This was the beginning of her ordeal, as this
might be the first comer to tell her how badly
she had chosen for herself.

Estelle continued to stare at her, as at a
riddle beyond any solution which her own weak
mind could offer, and then with the consciousness
that it was not safe to interfere, or to
hazard a remark — reading that very clearly in
the steady, hazel eyes surveying her — she put

her arms romish her, and kissed her with much
warmth.

It's all for the best, I daresay, as you love
each other very much. My dearest Aggie, I
congratulate you.'

Thank you,' was the quiet answer.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

MORE CONGRATULATIONS.

Although the fact of the engagement of Miss
ChaUis was all over the establishment of Overcome
before luncheon, and every servant of
the household, and even the three gardeners,
snowed out,' and drinking their hardest at the
village inn, were thoroughly up in the details,
Agnes Alas spared for awhile those comments
upon the match from which she had been
shrinking in imagination already. There was
a tacit ignoring of the case, for which she was
grateful ; there was a general kindness of demeanour
towards her, for which she was more
grateful still. Estelle hardly left her for an

instant; old Mrs. DangerJ&eld, looking a little
mystified certainly, and a degree or two more
thoughtful, was gentle of accent and soft of
speech, and young Mrs. Dangerfield took more
than extra pains to make amends for her discourtesy
of the preceding night. Frances had
suspected her then. With her suspicions removed,
she was anxious to be kind and conciliatory,
and behind all this was the great, awful
truth which had come to her in her husband's
study, and struck her down last night as with
a flash of fire from Heaven. It had struck
down much moral rectitude as well, and the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield knew at last that she
was a hypocrite, and must, for her own and
her child's sake — for her pride's sake — remain
a hypocrite and liar to the end of her life.
She knew the whole story now, and it debased
her. There could be no revelation of it — she
would prefer to die rather than allow that
secret to pass into the world for the world's
verdict upon it. No one must guess at the
truth after Paul's mother was dead, and she
must not, by a Avoid or look, betray that any

thought of it had come to her. And yet there
were two or three already with a strong suspicion
that it had not been fair play with the
woman who had died in want — Mr. Fayre, Dan
Overdown, Agnes Chalhs, and her brother had
hinted at strange things which might come into
the light to scare her, and, surely, her father.
Lord Redclove, by some means, and at sometime
after her marriage, had discovered the
story, and had hidden it as jealously as it was
now her task to do. She was a woman who,
with all her faults, was unused to deceit, and
whose conscience had not yet grown accustomed
to the position of affairs, and these were
the early days of utter misery for all her outward
inflexibility. She had considered herself
so good, and strong, and devout till this day —
so far above the petty temptations and
vanities of life — so close to that strange God
of hers, to whom she had prayed for that
peace which had suddenly been set for ever
from her.

She would do all that she could, except tell
people she had never been the ^^dfe of Paul

Dangerfielcl — that on Estelle fell the brand of
illegitimacy, and that the young woman from
whom she had shrunk was the daughter born in
wedlock, and whose rights had been stolen from
her and her brother. She was only an usurper.
The property of Paul Dangerfield belonged to
these children, not to her, and though Paul
Dangerfield had harried her, believing that his
first wife was dead, still the error was his, and
the shame of it remained to her — the only legacy
to which she was entitled.

She was very kind to Agnes Chalhs that
day — for the first time in her life, there was
more than common interest evinced — and the
engagement to Daniel Overdown was fresh
matter for her conscience, for the strengthening
of her new interest in her. There was no great
opportunity of showing that there was a change
in her demeanour, but it was, nevertheless,
demonstrated, without obtrusiveness, and Aggie
took it as the amende honorable for unjustly suspecting
the relations between her and Hamilton
Redclove, who, by the way, was keeping unaccountably
from Overcome and his cousins.

VOL. III. I

There was a luncheon-party at Overcome
that morning, and it was beyond Aggie's power
to interfere with old Mrs. Dangerfield's arrangements
for it. Mr. Fayre and his daughter had
heard last night of Mr. Overdown's reason for
coming to Overcome, and they had driven over
to hear, or to judge for themselves, of the result,
being as curious concerning it as other folk,
and, possibly, as much perplexed, and the hero
of the hour — the veritable Daniel — had been
sent for by Mrs. Dangerfield, and asked to
luncheon, along with Samuel Challis from
America.

«I wish you had not done this,' murmured
Aggie to her grand mamma ; ' you might have
spared me.'

Daniel Overdown and your brother are very
welcome here,' replied the old lady.

Yes ; but Daniel is not used to this life.'

He has sent word back that he will be most
happy to join us.'

'Ah! I don't doubt that,' said Aggie,-
ruefully.

It was an odd party at luncheon, as well as

ill-assorted, and Aggie Challis was nervous about
it and its incongruities. The invitation had
been given in good faith, and accepted in a
similar fashion, and there was no wish to hold
Daniel Overdo wn up to ridicule before people of
an extra degree of refinement. Dan was out of
place, but he was not uncomfortable. The
great house, the guests, and the servants did
not dismay him — he seemed even to rise to the
occasion, to the gratification of her by whose
side he was sitting triumphantly. A keen observer
naturally, he was not likely to make any
grave mistake, when he was on guard against
himself — and though he had not studied, or had
the opportunity to study, table etiquette in any
form, he did not bite his bread, or half swallow
his knife, and shock these worthy folk in consequence.
They could not help watching him,
and studying him a Httle, and he was aware of
it, without betraying a sign of discomfiture.
He felt he had the credit of Agnes's taste to
keep up, and he saw that she was more embarrassed
than himself. Mr. Fayre, regarding
him stolidly from the opposite side of the table,

i2

was not slow to set off Daniel Overdown to the
best advantage by starting topics on which he
knew the gunsmith could grow eloquent, if he
liked — the state of affairs at Woodley Moor,
the grievances of the colliers, even, despite
the presence of the ladies, the politics of the
day. America, too, came-in for a fair share of
discussion, and Dan Overdown proved himself
as well up in matters across the Atlantic as Sam
Challis, who had recently arrived from New
York. It was Sam who was more ill at ease
than Daniel Overdown, who was grave and
taciturn, and from whom a remark was wrenched
with difficulty. He felt like a spy in the
camp of the enemy, rather than a friend of
the assembled guests, he told his sister, after
luncheon was over, and when Dan had run
the gauntlet of "society" without losing
caste.

You are no spy,' she murmured back.

I don't know what I am yet,' he answered,
shrugging his shoulders ; * but I take my place
here with an ill-grace, Aggie.'
Well, it is not very unnatural.'

You have grown used to the position ; I
don't think I ever shall,' he said. ' Did you
notice how that woman watched me — shivered
atmef
* What woman?'

The young Mrs. Dangerfield.'

'No.'

And her daughter, with that half vacant
glare at you and me, as if puzzled by us both.
By heaven,' he cried, 'it's awfully strange —
awfully depressing. It shakes a man's resolutions
from him.'

You must not resolve too quickly, sam, or
without me,' said his sister ; ' I wish this for
many reasons.'

'Where is Mr. Redclove? I expected to
meet him to-day.'

We all expected him, but he has preferred
to keep away.'

I should be very glad to see him.'

Daniel Overdown came to the side of his
Betrothed, and conversation became more general,
until it was time for these atoms of humanity
to separate. Mr. Fayre and his daughter

were going back to Grayling ; Daniel Overdown
had another meeting to address at Woodley
Moor, and Sam Challis had offered to accompany
him and address the meeting too.

1 am used to that kind of thing now,' said
sam ; * I like to consider myself one of the
people, speaking up for the people.'

'Ah!' said Dan, cautiously, 'I'll hear your
arguments as you go along, before I trust you
with you' voice amongst my men.'

He turned to Aggie.

I hope 1 haven't been quite a clown here ?^
he asked, in a low tone.

« Not at all, Dan.'

It has been a hard pull through, though,' he
added. ' Did I make a mistake V

Not one.'

Was it all right about that lump of bread
with the fish?'

Hush, hush ! Quite right.'

And I haven't bored you to-day V he asked,
kindly.

No, Dan.'

Or assumed too much on the strength of my

position, of which I am awfully proud, and can't
help showing it V he said.

No,' replied Aggie once more.

That's all square. And now I won't trouble
you any more to-day, because I can't very well,'
he added, with a laugh, ' as there's a torchlight
demonstration to-night, and late hours are not
fashionable here, the old lady has told me. And
tomorrow !'

What of tomorrow, Dan V she said, as he
regarded her very earnestly.

To-morrow morning I have to say good-bye,^
for even sweethearts must not keep a man
from his work, or the work of the world would
stand still, I reckon.' "'

He took his departure along with Sam Challis,
and Bella Fayre came to Aggie's side at once,
as if she had been watching her opportunity.

Tell me all about it, Aggie,' she said, half
petulantly. ' I seem to be in the dark of late
days. You are stopping here too long, and
forgetting me.'

I shall soon be back at the vicarage again.'

That selfish old lady will not let you come,'

said Bella, almost spitefully; 'lie — but never
mind her just now, dear. Is it all settled ? Are
you really engaged to that — to Mr. Over down?'

Yes, I am engaged to him.'

He is a very odd, nice, positive kind of
person,' said Bella, reflectively; 'but I should
not have thought Oh ! bother, here's papa.'

It was papa's turn, and Agnes Challis was not
sorry. He came towards the two girls, with
his strongly-lined face full of interest, and sat
down, facing them both, offering his hand to
our heroine.

I know what you two are talking about,' he
said. ' Will you accept my congratulations
also, Agnes?'

I thank you, Mr. Fayre.'

'Congratulations that are all the more sincere,'
he added, ' because I, for one, know you
have accepted an honest man, and have let
your heart speak out in his favour.'

At a sacrifice, though,' remarked Bella, ' for
I cannot help saying — — '

'My dear child,' said the vicar, in mild remonstrance,
' you will allow me to be the better

judge of this matter. You will allow me to remind
you that I have known Mr. Overdown many-years,
and have had proof of his high character
and unselfishness. A little hasty at times, a
little harsh in his judgment of those who are
opposed to him in trade-affairs, in politics, but a
man in a thousand, take him altogether.'

Bella thought it was only one man in a hundred
thousand who would wear white trousers
at that time of year, but she did not give voice
to the idea that had seized her. She was not
pleased, and she was in her heart considerably
astonished at Aggie's choice ; but then the history
of the past was a sealed story to her. She
studied the position from her one point of view,
and was perplexed by it. There was a mystery
in it, she was certain, and she had made up
her mind to discover it, flattering herself that
she already held the clue. She was the only
member of that little community who doubted
Aggie Challis's love for Daniel Overdown, good
as he was, and long as Aggie had known' him.

She went away dissatisfied with the aspect of
affairs, and would have argued the point all the

drive back to Grayling, if her father had not
exercised his parental authority, and finally
forbidden the subject.

« I am sure there is a mistake somewhere,' she
said, even then, ' and,' she added to herself, * I
am going to find it out.'

Meanwhile the cross-fire of congratulations
had not ceased. It came from all quarters, and
rendered the recipient ill-appease. She was not
used to the position yet and time had not been
of service to her. They might have spared hera
little while longer, she considered.

It was Frances Dangerfield who came to her
side later in the evening, when Estelle was
with her grandmother, and who laid her hand
on Aggie's, and looked earnestly into her face.

You will not care a great deal for my best
wishes for the future,' she said sadly, * for you
have not learned to like me, and I have been
hard and unjust towards you, but I osier them
to you in all sincerity, Agnes.'

Thank you, madam,' answered our heroine.

And I want you — if you are able — when weare
away from each other, to believe the best

of me that you can, and to dwell no more upon
my inability, which has wounded you, and
my jealousy — there, I own it ! — lest Estelle
should think too much of you, and so forget me,
by degrees.'

As if that were likely !'

And,' she added, with increasing excitement,
I wish you to make me a promise.'

Without hearing what it is ?'

Oh ! I can't expect that. But I wish you to
appeal to me — only to me — if you are at anytime
beset by doubt, or difficulty, or danger — if
trouble is near you or your brother — if money is
wanted '

Money — and from you !' cried Aggie.

I would be glad to help you — I would be so
very glad,' she murmured, and Agnes saw with
amazement that tears were swimming in the
eyes of the speaker. It was a great change — a
great softening of the widow's heart towards
her — and Aggie replied,

You are very good to regard me so kindly
as this, but I do not fancy I shall ever want
friends.'

The world is full of uncertainty. I hope you
will remember. I — I hope you will come and
see Estelle in London.'

Mrs. Dangerfield !' exclaimed Aggie.

It is my wish, as well as my daughter's ;
you are half-sisters. God has brought you together.
I would have you love each other
now, for I can trust you with the secret of your
life,' she said, speaking very hurriedly.

Yes, you may trust me,' whispered back
Agnes Challis.

Was this part of the dream with which she
had been beset all day — the strange day-dream,
wherein she had accepted Daniel Overdown,
and Frances Dangerfield had grown wondrously
womanly, and yet marvellously strange ? The
world was altering with Aggie Challis rapidly,
or she was dreaming still. She would be glad
to rest that night, to sleep upon it, to feel less
feverish and faint.

But the night was not yet over, and there
was one more ordeal to encounter. When
Frances Dangerfield and her daughter had
bidden them good-night, and retired, and the

old lady by the fire seemed rousing herself to
her usual state of extra interest, a late visitor
was announced.

There is never any rest in this house,' muttered
old Mrs. Dangerfield, as the outer bell
rang loudly ; * people come here at all hours of
the night, without any thought for me.'

The servant entered to announce Mr. Hamilton
Redclove before this querulous assertion was
completed.

CHAPTER XL.

THE LAST CONGRATULATIONS.

Permission having been accorded to Mr. Hamilton
Redclove to pay his compliments to the
ladies, that young gentleman was shortly afterwards
shown into the drawing-room. He looked
round quickly as he entered, as though he had
expected to find a large company present ; and
then, with grave formality, shook hands with
old Mrs. Dangerfield and Agnes.

'I am afraid 1 am late,' he said, apologetically
; ' but I have been to London to-day on
business, and could not reach here at an earlier
hour.'

To London and back V remarked the old

lady. * Your business must have been of great
importance to necessitate such haste.'

Hamilton regarded the speaker attentively,
as if something in her Avoids, or the tones in
which they had been conveyed, had struck him
as peculiar.

Not of very great importance,' he said. ' I
knew Lord Redclove would be in town to-day,
and I thought I would call upon him, and make
sure he was in the enjoyment of his usual health
and spirits.'

Had you any doubt of that V

Marriage might not have agreed with him ;
the arrival of a son and heir might, at his time
of life, have unduly excited him. I was anxious
concerning him.'

I don't believe a word of it,' answered old
Mrs. Dangerfield, stoutly.

Hamilton laughed at this flat contradiction,
as he sat down near the ladies, his hat still
in his hand, significant of his intention of only
intruding upon them for a few minutes. He
was in excellent spirits, but he was not looking
well, Agnes Chalhs thought There was a tired

expression about him, as though his long journey
had been almost too much for him, and there
were dark shadows underneath his eyes, strongly
significant of a state of unrest.

'I was anxious about myself — will that do,
Mrs. Dangerfieldf he said.

Why anxious V she rejoined.

You forget my position has become precarious,'
he replied. 'Lord Redclove no longer
requires the services of a private secretary ; and
the ci-devant private secretary has lived up to
his income, and not put by anything for that
rainy day which comes to every improvident
idiot in turn. Hence, becoming acquainted
with the fact of his lordship's being in town
for a few days, it was surely praiseworthy on
my part to seek him out, and ask what he
could do for me ?'

*Ah! — yes — well?' said the old lady, either
strangely indifferent to Mr. Redclove's position
in life, or disinclined still to put faith in his
statement.

'Well, Lord Redclove can do nothing for meat
present,' Hamilton continued, coolly. ' If he

hears of anything, at any time within the next
ten years — should he hive as long — he will drop
me a line. Meanwhile, I must shift for myself
look up other friends, attempt other vocations ;
do anything save bother him for the loan of a
few pounds.'

How much money did you want to borrow V
asked old Mrs. Dangerfield.

Hamilton flinched at the inquiry, and the
colour mounted very quickly to his face.

*I do not want any money at present, thank
you, Mrs. Dangerfield/ he replied.

Why, you said just now '

I told you what Lord Redclove had hinted
at,' he said, interrupting her, ' but I did not ask
my uncle for money, or go to town with that
intention. I shall be very hard-up indeed, I
shall have swept a crossing opposite bis club
before I appeal to him for pecuniary help.'

'You have quarrelled with Lord Redclove,'
said the old lady.

We have exchanged a few fiery words, that's
all

Did you go to town to quarrel V

VOL. III. K

Being in a quarrelsome mood, perhaps I did
was the reply.

Did you quarrel about his secret marriage T
'Not I,' he answered, laughing pleasantly

now ; ' his marriage was his own affair. I had
no right to comment upon it, although I have
a bad habit, at times, of making remarks on
matters that should not concern me.'

He looked at Aggie for the first time since
he had sat down, and she was sure that her
colour changed beneath his gaze, despite her
effort to appear unconcerned by his remarks.

He changed the subject, as if anxious to
spare her any embarrassment.

My cousins — have they retired for the night V
he inquired.

An answer in the affirmative was given him.

It is of no consequence,' he said ; * I am only
the bearer of a few lines to Frances from her
estimable papa.'

He took a sealed letter from his breast
pocket, and tossed it carelessly on the table.

'I almost wonder he trusted me with it,'
Hamilton remarked.

'What should he fears asked the old lady.

My tearing it up by the way.'

'Why should you wish to destroy the
letter V

The pure malice of the monkey,' ho replied,
shrugging his shoulders. 'Lord Redclove is
a little put-out — possibly I put him out a
little,' he added, drily, ' by the news of his
daughter and grand-daughter and Miss Challis,
all being together here as your guests. He
cannot understand it ; he is disturbed and excited,
and sends down his instructions in consequence
to his daughter Frances.'

I wonder he has not condescended to instruct
me,' muttered the old lady.

I beg pardon — so he has,' said Hamilton,
coolly producing a second epistle, sealed with
the arms of the Redcloves, and handing it to
Mrs. Dangerfield. ' I believe, my dear madam,
that is for you.'

Why did you not give me this at first '?'

I took the liberty of preparing you for so
unlooked-for an event as a communication from
his lordship,' he said.

k2

I require no preparation,' was the reply.

She took the letter from Hamilton's hands,
settled her gold-mounted glasses on her nose,
leaned back in her chair, and broke the seal.
Hamilton watched her very keenly, after glancing
once more at Aggie Challis, but the effect
of LordRedclove's communication on the reader
was not apparent. The lined face betrayed no
emotion or surprise, the thin hand shook not,
the figure in the chair remained calm and passive
throughout.

'He condescends to give me advice,' she said,
folding the letter again, ' and thinks I have acted
with grave indiscretion in allowing you,
Agnes, to remain in this establishment along
with his daughter and Estelle. He does not
trust you, child.'

That does not matter to me, I think,' Aggie
murmured.

Are your feelings hurt V was the grandmother's
next inquiry.

Not at all,' was the confident answer.

Excuse me, for a moment,' said the old lady,
rising, * I will take Frances's letter to her, and

she will compare it with my own — if she has
any faith in me, that is.'

She took the second letter from the table, and
went at once from the room, Hamilton opening
the door and closing it behind her. Agnes
Challis felt a sense of embarrassment oppressing
her when her grandmother had withdrawn.
She was alone with him — alone with the man
of many questions, who said harsh things,
and had not spared her woman's pride of late
days. When they had been together last
he had wounded her to bitter tears, which
in their turn had wounded and discomfited him ;
if he would only be silent now till old Mrs.
Dangerfield's retm-n she would be very grateful.
The day had been a long one, and full of novel
excitement; if he had heard the news of the
engagementj'^he would be acting a generous part
to forego all comment upon it till a time more
fitting.

Probably something in her looks betrayed this
mute appeal for mercy, for he came back to his
seat and was silent for a short while. He sat
with his hands folded on his knees, the picture

of patience, for the space of a minute and three
quarters, when, his patience giving way, he
burst into words.

Miss ChalKs, I am unhappy until you grant
me your forgiveness for my rudeness of yesterday,'
he said, hurriedly. ' I acted unkindly and
unwarrantably, and I hope you will think no
more of what I said.'

I forgive you Mr. Redclove,' she murmured :
pray say no more about it !'

Only a few more words,' he entreated, * just
to add that it was my interest in you that led
to my harshness. I thought I was acting
for the best, and did not understand how
thoroughly I had been playing the part of ill-adviser,
and in what a brutal fashion, until I
discovered you in tears. Then I could have
shot myself for an idiot, with great complacency.'


The subject is over, I hope,' said Agnes, with
forced calmness.

And I am forgiven — freely V he cried, extending
his hand.

Agnes affected not to see it, but she answered,

Yes;

'You'll not shake hands with mew he said,
persistently ; ' you do not forgive me in real
earnest ? You do not believe in my regrets for
having offended you V

I do not comprehend you, Mr. Redclove, if
you insist upon my being explicit,' Aggie said
at last. ' You speak of your sorrow for ha^ang
pained me by your words — which you repeated,
however, in a sterner fashion to one whom you
knew I greatly respected.'

Daniel Overdown V he said, inquiringly.

Yes.'

I was mad with sorrow before he came upon
me, and he added to my madness — that is all I
can say in excuse. Every word that I can say,'
he repeated, mournfully, ' unless '

He looked eagerly towards her, but she was
watching him curiously, as if afraid of him. He
was a man she could not trust again.

*Do not say any more, Mr. Redclove,' she
said, quickly. ' I do forgive you, on the promise
of your silence. There !'

She held her hand towards him, and his

fingers closed upon it with a strange, eager
force, before it was withdrawn, somewhat
hastily, again.

I shall leave here none the worse,' he said,
for thinking you do not regard me as your
enemy.'

Never as an enemy, Mr. Redclove ; and with
the past '

Oh, let us leave the past alone !' he said,
fretfully ; ' you and I have dropped from it and
its delusions, and there is the future only to
consider. For a time, even in that past, I was
your friend. What a change since then !'

You have always been my friend,' she
replied, in a low tone.

Until yesterday.'

I will think of yesterday no more.'

*A kind promise, but difficult of fulfilment.
Always your friend, you say V he muttered.

Yes.'

A friend in whom you could confide, even
now?'

Yes she answered, after a moment's hesitation.


Tell me then he said, very humbly, * what
has happened to-day whilst I have been in
London ? I would prefer hearing it from you
instead of them. Mr. Overdown has been
here V

Yes.'

You are engaged to him now f

Yes.'

My God I' he exclaimed, in so low and
stifled a tone that she did not affect to hear
him, and yet the exclamation unnerved her,
though there was no longer the ring of contempt
or surprise in his voice. There rose to
her recollection his last explanation, that sorrow
had driven him mad. Soitow ! AVhat sorrow
could he have to affect him in this fashion ? to
set him before her as white as a ghost, or
trembling Eke a child who had been scared to
death's door by one ?

He was firm and self-possessed before he
thought the change in him had been observed.

Mr. Overdown seems a straightforward,
earnest, manly fellow,' he said, ' and you have
known him many years. Miss Challis. Let me

wish you every happiness this life can bring
before I go away to-night.'

Thank you, Mr. Redclove.'

A man's wishes don't count for much, or
there should not be another trouble for you iu
this world, where you have been so unfairly
treated,' he said, with a faint smile. ^

Thank you,' she remarked again, lacking a
better reply at the moment.

And now I need not worry you any more,'
he said ; * I daresay your friends have almost
killed you with their kind congratulations today.'


He seemed to relapse into deep thought, and
almost to forget her presence there ; for when
she spoke to him once more he started at the
sound of her voice.

'You have not heard that my brother Sam
has returned to England?' she said.

'When did he return f Hamilton asked,
apathetically.

Last night he came to see me for the first
time.'

Indeed,' he replied, half-absently.

^ He will tell yon why he did not meet yon at
the Liverpool landing-stages said Aggie ; ' he
has come to England to pay back the two
hundred pounds yon kindly lent him.'

Indeed,' he said again, bnt in a more absent
fashion still.

This startling piece of news had no power to
rose him into interest, and she was so doubtful
if he had heard it that she repeated it.

He seemed to wake to the consciousness of
being dull and inattentive after this.

Come,' he said, with forced gaiety, * that's an
amount that will help me on in the world, if I
use it with discretion.'

Then it was you who lent the money to Sam,
and not Lord Redclove !' cried Aggie, triumphantly.
' I am glad of this, I was sure of
it!'

Don't be quite sure of anything on this earth
he said. ' 1 received my uncle's instructions to
help you both, but when Sam disappeared with
the money, I was too proud to own to Lord
Redclove that I had trusted your brother too
readily. Hence my pride — always standing in

the way of my advantage — Miss Challis, you
see, cost me exactly two hundred pounds.'

Which Sam will return you tomorrow.'
Sam is very good.'

The door re-opened, and old Mrs. Dangerfield
came slowly back into her place.

Your cousin Frances begs you will excuse
her to-night,' she said.

Certainly.'

She will be at Mr. Fayre's vicarage tomorrow
at eleven o'clock, with Estelle, if the hour is
convenient to yourself.'

Convenient — in what way V

To escort her and her daughter to London.
Is it not Lord Redclove's wish !'

I don't know,' murmured Hamilton.

She did not show me the letter,' muttered
old Mrs. Dangerfield, ' but she implied it
was.'

Then it was, I have no doubt,' said Hamilton,
^ although I should have considered it more like
my uncle's policy if he had begged Frances to
remain and keep an eye on this dangerous young
person here.'

This was lightly said, but it failed in its effect.
No one smiled.

Possibly he has done that, after all,' said the
old lady, ' and Frances, an obstinate woman,
mind you, determines to leave at once.'

That is likely,' answered Hamilton, thoughtfully
; ' Frances is a woman who will not play
the spy, even to oblige her own father. She
fights on our side, I am sure.'

Our side !' said Aggie, wonderingly, * that
means '

Your side,' he replied, as he rose to his feet.
Good-night.'

He shook hands with them both — with Aggie
Challis last ; who, looking at him, saw that he
had turned very white again.

This may be the last time I shall call, I forgot
to say,' he said, ' the last time I shall see you
both, unless you come over to Grayling with my
cousins tomorrow. But the weather is too uninviting
for a seven miles' drive ; I cannot expect
so great a compliment paid me.'

Mr. Overdown is coming tomorrow morning,'
began Agnes, by way of an excuse.

Ah ! Present my compliments to him ; I had
forgotten him for a minute,' said Hamilton, interrupting.
' Good-bye, Miss Challis.'

I hope it is not good-bye,' she said, quickly
and frankly.

Thank you, for saying so,' he replied. ' Still
I have been an element of discord in your life,
and the sooner I withdraw the better. I am one
black shadow the less on your path.'

I do not believe it,' answered Aggie.

'Ah! but I do. I am so much wiser and
cleverer, you know,' he said, with his old sharpness
of tone predominant, ' and I see so very
clearly that '

He paused, and stamped his foot angrily upon
the carpet.

You shrink from me, and it serves me right,'
he cried ; ' when I would pass from you with
fair regrets, I am balked by all the bitterness
of discontent that is in me !'

You judge yourself too harshly,' said Aggie ;
I have heard nothing to offend.'

There, there ; don't excuse me to myself. Miss
Challis. And if I never see you again ' he

paused, and looked so hard and mournfully at
her that her lips quivered strangely in spite of
him, ' think the best of me that you can. Goodbye.'


He raised her hand suddenly to his lips, bowed
gravely over it as he kissed it, and then went
upon his way.

This cannot be for ever,' murmured Aggie
ChaUis.

•' For ever is a long day," ' the grandmother
quoted.

CHAPTER XLl.

NIGHT TIME.

This was one of old Mrs. Dangerfield's restless
nights, to which we have heard her allude more
than once in the course of this story. The hour
was late, and Aggie Chalhs was anxious to be in
her room, to think over the incidents of the day,
without interruption, rather than to sleep, for the
spirit of unrest was in her also, despite her grave,
fair face ; but the mistress of the house showed
no intention of retiring, and the younger woman
was forced to remain, for company's sake.

Old Mrs. Dangerfield was disposed to brood
after Hamilton had taken his departure. The
letter he had brought had disturbed her, after

all, though she had not cared to betray any
signs of distress to the bearer. It rendered her
wakeful and depressed.

This has been a weary, miserable day,' she
said, at last, feverishly ; * I don't know that in
all my life I have spent a worse.'

Why, how is that V asked Aggie ChaUis, in
surprise.

Everything has tended to unsettle me, at a
time when I should be cool and collected,' she
said ; * your engagement to Overdown, the
coming back of your brother, and now this last
visit of young Redclove with his uncle's letter
to me. To think that he who has held aloof
from me for so long should dare to dictate tome
my course of action — to warn me that you
are dangerous and untrustworthy, to advise me
to place confidence in Frances, and think and
act only for her and her daughter. What next
what next, I wonder?' she repeated, in a
higher key.

May I see the letter, grand mamma V asked
Aggie.

The old lady drew it from her pocket, and

VOL. III. L

dropped it quickly into the fire, where it kindled
into a flame and burned away.

I had forgotten he asked me to burn it,' she
muttered ; ' I am forgetting everything tonight.'


'Did you destroy it to spare my feelings?'
asked Aggie.

Yes, child ; yes.'

No, madam, no,' Aggie responded, very
quickly; 'but to keep from me what I have
known for years, and which Lord Redclove
hints at again in the letter you have burned.'

Great heaven ! why do you say this to me V
cried old Mrs. Dangerfield — ' and to-night?'

Simply to spare you one untruth, which
deceives me not and answers no end,' said
Aggie, 'for I am not curious now about the
past ; let it rest for awhile.'

Till 1 am dead, you mean.'

Living, you shall have peace, if it lies in my
power, madam,' said Aggie, very gently ; ' that
is the task I have set myself.'

Knowing I deceive you V

Knowing you cannot deceive me, but that

join love me as your dead son's daughter,' was
the reply.

The old lady held out her arms to her, and
Aggie went towards her and was enfolded in
them.

Why did I not know you earlier in life, my
Aggie ? — why did that poor dead son you speak
of keep the truth away from me V she murmured
; ' why has my life, from beginning to
end, been one complete mistake V

Is it a mistake to love me at the last V Aggie
asked.

Oh, no ! Well said, child,' replied the grandmother
; ' even to me there comes a blessing at
the eleventh hour, and where I had only looked
for hatred and uncharitableness. Now, let me
tell you, Aggie, that in the iron safe of my
Paul's study — in the room locked up — you will
find some letters of your mother, and many
papers of your father, and I would have you
ask Frances Dangerfield to read them over with
you. They will explain the will that is there
also. You two women — and you two alone —
may see the best way to act, and you must

l2

think of everybody. I can't,' she added, feebly;
I never had the strength.'
But — my brother V

You will act without him in this matter, to
begin with,' said the old lady, decisively ; * I
wish it. If it's the last word I had to say in
life, I wish that, Aggie.'

I cannot act against him.'

It may be acting for him,' was the reply. ' I
ask you for your own sake, I command you for
the sake of your father and me, to do this. I
cannot trust your brother to be merciful.'

And you trust m.eV
Yes.'

I will read the papers, then, with Mrs. Dan-garfield,
not binding myself in any way to act
upon them afterwards.'

This you promise V

This I promise, if I live.'

*If you hive!' echoed old Mrs. Dangerfield.
What put that in your head f

Life is uncertain, surely V

If you live !' muttered the grandmother. * I
never thought of your dying before me, and of

what would happen then. There, you unnerve
me ; there has been too much talk of death tonight
to please a woman on the edge of her
own grave. Let me take your arm upstairs,
and tell Therese to follow us.'

The instructions were given, and Agnes and
her grandmother went up the broad stairs together.
At the door of the elder woman's room
they paused, and old Mrs. Dangerfield said, very
solemnly,

Good-night, child ; and God be with you till
we meet again.'

Shall I come and sit with you for a while V

No ; Therese will do that.'

'You are not going to sit up, I hope?' Agnes
inquired.

'I am not going to rest immediately; but
then the old don't crave for rest — don't require
it like the young. I think,' she added, ' that I
have work to do before I sleeps

Pray, let me help you.'

'That is beyond your power, Agnes. Goodnight
again ; think no more of what I have said,
until the time comes to act. You should have

nothing save bight thoughts, for you are
entering on a new life, believing that marriage
means love, and constancy, and happiness. Is
not that it f

It should mean that or nothing,' was the
answer.

'And it means all three with Daniel Over-down.
Ah ! well,' sighed the grandmother, ' I
wish it had been Hamilton.'

Pray, don't say so ! You cannot guess what
is for the best.'

No ; I have been never able to guess
that.'

These were the parting words between the kinswomen,
and they gave a turn to the old train of
thought when Agnes Challis was safe within her
room. They turned her from the one theme
which had stalked into the foreground that
night — which had been the aim and object of
her life before love had gained the mastery.

Love — and for whom 1 She had not owned
to loving Daniel Overdown, not as a woman
should love the man whom she accepts for a
suitor ; and yet she was as troubled as a lovesick

maiden that night, and dreamed in the
moonlight like a very Juliet.

But it was scarcely the face of a JiiKet thinking
of her Romeo, as she sat at the window, with
the curtains drawn back from the winter landscape,
all white and silver beneath the moonbeams
; not a face full of praise, and rhapsody,
and hope, with the stamp of heaven upon it,
the ever creative heaven of her own bright
future — glorious fallacy that it may be to the
girl who loves for the first time. It was a face
expressive of pain, of an effort at resignation at
which her heart rebelled — the face of one who
has awakened from a dream, instead of one who
dreams on and believes evasions reality.

Engaged to be manned ! Yes ; she had
promised Daniel Overdown to become his wife ;
she had taken pity upon him, and saved him
from despair ; she had rewarded his long study
of her, by answering ' Yes.' She could not —
dared not think out the story to the end. He
had given her time, her own time ; and it would
not be difficult to train herself to the duty which
she had undertaken. He Avould not hurry her ;

he would wait patiently for years, and in years
she should forget.

Forget what ? She did not whisper all that
was in her heart ; she did not dare to own that
Daniel Overdown was deposed, had never
reigned, had only held the foremost place by
the right which constituted him her benefactor,
never a lover, or the ghost of one.

Suddenly, in the midst of her reverie, a voice
of the night startled her by calling out her name,
-and she sprang up and pressed her face to the
glass, so that she might peer down into the
shadows of the garden close beneath the windows.
There was a man standing and looking
up at her, or her dream had taken a new shape.
She opened the window with trembling hands.

'Don't be afraid, Aggie, it is I — Sam!' her
brother called forth, in a low tone.

You here again ? at this hour ! Has anything
happened f

I am watching the house, that's all ; and
there are those who don't sleep in it, any better
than yourself,' he said, in the same suppressed
tone of voice.

What do you mean V

There is a light in the room of om father's
study to-night — there was one last night,' Sam
replied.

Impossible !'

I saw it after I had left yon, and tried to
climb up by the ivy, which broke down with
me. It is there again to-night.'

Aggie Challis was a brave woman, but she
felt the blood running not so warmly in her
veins as it had done a minute or two since.

Are you certain of this V

'Quite certain. I have been expecting the
light — watching for it,' he repeated.

'I will go. Wait underneath the windows
of the study till you see me, Sam, or hear my
voice.'

'All right.'

She closed the window, took up her light, and
Avent with a rapidly-beating heart into the shadowy
corridor.

It was a rash adventure and required all her
strength of mind to follow to the end. If Sam
were right — and it was not likely that he should

be the victim of hallucination — there were
plotters abroad, and it was necessary to watch
them and confound them. In the disused apartment
of her father, her grandmother had owned
to valuable papers being secreted, and others in
the house, servants, perhaps visitors, had heard
of this fact, and were searching for them when
honest folk were sleeping. She was acting for
herself, and in her own cause, by proceeding to
the rescue. Nervous and excited as she was, it
did not strike her that she might be venting
into no common danger until she stood
with her hand on the study-door, which was
ajar — startling proof of a trespasser lurking
within.

She hesitated then for the first time — the
thought of awakening Therese, or one of the
servants on the upper floors, occurring to her asa
necessary procedure before she faced the
unknown on the other side of the wainscot.

She listened. The silence was unbroken by
a sound ; no one stirred within the study ; if
anyone were breathing there, she must have
heard it, listening thus intently. She could believe

at last that it was a delusion of her
brother's, and her hand stole forward softly and
pushed the door inwards by an inch or two,
whilst her great hazel eyes glared at the opening
thus made.

She drew back again quickly ; there is a
light burning in the study, and mortal hands
had placed it there, as surely as there must be a
mortal form amongst the dust and books of her
father's favourite room.

The light was very bright, but the stillness of
death was in the room. There was not a movement
within, Agnes was certain, and unable to
endure longer the suspense — the horror of the
position — she pushed the door aside, and went
in, with a hand pressed on her upheaved breast.

One quick, eager, comprehensive glance, and
then the truth appalled her utterly, and a wild
scream of affright escaped her, and rang echoing
through the corridors.

The iron safe was open, and old Mrs. Dan-garfield
lay on the floor before it a dead woman,
with the keys clutched tightly in her hands.

CRUEL Truths.

CHAPTER I.

WHAT THE WILL CONTAINED.

Death had come swiftly to the great house at
Overcome, and there was much talk in the
country of what had happened, and sundry
grave speculations made concerning it. Old
Mrs. Dangerfield had been a character in her
way, if somewhat obscure and shadowy; and
the long years of her insanity, followed by her
unlooked-for recovery to reason, had rendered
her an object of interest to her neighbours.
That she had gone mad about her son, everybody
knew ; that she had idolised him, and forever
mourned for him, was part of the story ;
and that she should have died in this room seemed

a fitting sequel to it all . To the outer world
it was a little incomprehensible, perhaps, unless
her state of mind was to be questioned presently,
why she should have gone to the study at
the last, unlocking the iron safe where Paul
Dangerfield had kept his papers, and dying
before its open doors. To the inner world of
friends and relations, there were separate theories
evolved, but there was scanty satisfaction obtained
from any of them. To Aggie Challis
there was mystery, and yet a clue to it. The
papers of which her grandmother had spoken
an hour or two before her death were missing
from the safe — there were no proofs of the marriage
between Paul Dangerfield and his first
wife forthcoming — there were no letters of the
mother and father, full of the affection that had
died out like a flame, to be discovered, The
will was there, and nothing but the will ; and it
was probable, thought Aggie, that old Mrs.
Dangerfield, becoming alarmed at her own confession,
and fearful of the result of it, had
destroyed the documents before her sudden
death.

There were the burnt ashes of paper in the
empty fire-grate, as evidence of this ; and Aggie
ChaUis read no greater mystery and suspected
no greater plot. Had the papers been stolen by
anyone whose interest it Alas to obtain possession
of them — and who were consequently the
enemy, or enemies, of the Challises — would not
the will have been abstracted, too, when it was
a will so strangely significant of reparation for
all past mistakes ?

That will was to be seriously considered,
to be criticised, analysed, and protested against
when the inquest had been held, the verdict
of God's visitation recorded, and the funeral
performed with some degree of pomp and
parade.

It was a grand funeral, and all Overcome
was astir. The Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield
took the arrangements upon her own hands,
and spared no cost to do honour to the dead.
She had seen the old lady's solicitor, and asked
permission to do this ; and he had told her
that no permission was required, as she would
discover for herself in the will, which Frances

VOL. III. M

would not read, or allow to be read, till the
day of the funeral.

She took the lead in everything that appertained
to rule in Overcome, and no one interfered
with her. She fell naturally into the
place of mistress of the house, noah that her
husband's mother was dead, and the servants
took it for granted that she was mistress already,
and were not elated by the change.

Agnes Challis recorded no protest, or thought
of any. She was amazed at the depth of her
own grief, feeling that it was scarcely natural
she should mourn so much, though the old
and the young had been brought together in
their strange latter days, and the love between
them had grown strong, as suspicions grew
weak.

It did not matter to Aggie that, at the last
hour of her life, the poor woman had perhaps
lost confidence in her again, or, dreading the
scandal which the truth might bring to light,
bad destroyed, with the papers, the opportunity
of establishing a mother's good name. Aggie
could understand such weakness, and forgive

it. To the Dangerfields, it would have been
a terrible revelation ; and she who had died
had possibly thought at the last of the memory
of the dead, rather than of justice to the
living.

It was a grand funeral, we repeat ; and the
tenantry, who had mustered by fifties round
the entrance to the family vault, got very drunk
in the evening at the village inn, when folk
more sober had assembled in the drawing-room
of the mansion, to hear in what manner the rich
woman had willed away her money. It would
be a strange testament, everybody thought ; for
Mrs. Dangerfield had been a strange woman,
and hosts of distant relatives, of whose existence
and kinship no one had scarcely dreamed,
scented the plunder, and came in troops to
Overcome.

One man arrived at a late hour, and took most
of the relatives by surprise, although Frances
Dangerfield had had warning of his coming,
and kept the fact to herself, as of no importance
to the general community. Lord Redclove was
set down at the entrance-doors an hour or

m2

two after the funeral, and carefully assisted
from his carriage by the prompt hands of his
valet, whose services had become necessary
now that gout had once more dropped, discourteously,
upon the limbs of his lordship.

There was a stir amongst the company in
the drawing-room as he shuffled in, a pale-faced,
sharp-eyed, starchy individual, who bowed in
that distant fashion which befits a peer of the
realm thrown amongst the God-knows-whom.
He and his valet were followed by a slim man
in black, who proved to be Lord Redclove's
solicitor, and who took his place at the back
of the chair in which his lordship, with difficulty,
ensconced himself, and looked from one face
to another until he had grown familiar nth
the guests.

In your interest, my dear Frances, I am herewith
my friend, Mr. Chavelot,' murmured Lord
Redclove. ' You remember Mr. Chavelot, who
drew up a deed of settlement some years ago,
when '

I remember Mr. Chavelot,' said Frances, with
a frigid bow to the solicitor ; * and I regret you

have seen the necessity to bring the gentleman
with yon.'

Solely in your interest, my child said Lord
Redclove again ; ' there is no selfish motive
actuating a step which costs me only pain and
discomfort.'

I am sorry to hear it, my lord,' answered
Frances.

Father and daughter had not met since the
announcement of the birth of an heir to the
Redclove estates, and the promulgation of the
fact of a secret marriage : and possibly Frances
had not forgiven the deception. Still these
were grave times, and the widow was gi^ave
to match. She had not wished for her father's
presence; but, after all, it did not disturb her
in any great degree. It was he who would
be seriously disturbed in good time, and who,
scenting trouble, or disaster, or confession, had
come in hot haste to Overcome.

Lord Redclove shrugged his shoulders at his
daughter's remarks, and then sat back in his
chair, as calm and placid as his gout would
permit. Estelle, in her deep-black dress, came

across the drawing-room to greet him, and his
face brightened a Httle as she leaned over him
and kissed him.

This is hardly a fitting scene for you, Estelle,'
he said, in a low voice. ' Amongst this crowd
of adventurers, you are sadly out of place.'

Mamma Avished me to be present.'

'Well — well — your grand mamma Dangerfield
was very fond of you.'

I — I hardly think so,' said Estelle, frankly ;
I saw so little of her during my life.'

Very fond of you,' he insisted. ' When you
were a child she absolutely doated on you,
Estelle.'

fie looked round the room again, peering
keenly from beneath his shaggy white eyebrows.

Who is the tall, fair girl in black, Estelle,'
he said, ' to whom you were speaking just
now V

Aggie — I mean Miss Challis.'
Oh ! Miss Chalhs — I have heard the name.'
It was she who saved my life, grandpa.'
Who dragged you out of a pond about here ?
ah ! yes, some one wrote to me about that,'

remarked Lord Redclove ; ' did you get very
wet, child?'

'Yes, I was wet,' answered Estelle, quaintly.

Yon might have caught your death of cold,'
observed her grandfather. ' I wonder what weare
waiting for?'

Be — Lord Redclove — had arrived, and proceedings
should surely not be unduly delayed,
he considered ; but the solicitor to the late Mrs.
Dangerfield was very busy with the papers, and
not prepared for the revelation.

The place is a perfect Babel,' Lord Redclove
said to his solicitor ; ' I cannot understand the
greed and rapacity of all these people. What
did the old Avoman know of three-fourths of
them in her lifetime to care what became of
them after her decease?'

It is a fine estate, my lord,' said Mr. Clave
in reply.

Yes — in its way,' added his lordship. ' Do
you see my nephew about, Chavelot? I am
getting damnably short-sighted, and this mob
confuses me.'

No, I don't see him,' answered the solicitor.

Hamilton Redclove is standing by the door,
my lord,' said a deep voice, and Lord Redclove
started at hearing it so close to him. He inclined
his head slowly, without looking at the
speaker, or without thanking him for the information
thus suddenly volunteered, but when the
chatter and argument, coarse jests, and noisy
laughter — and there was a good deal of all that
at last — were at their height, the head of Lord
Redclove revolved slowly round in the voluminous
white cravat he wore, and the keen grey
eyes glinted under his brows at the young man
who had spoken to him. It was Samuel Challis,
who was standing close to his side, and whom
his lordship had not seen in his life before. He
knew him, though, by his likeness to the father,
and he turned quickly away. The sight had
disturbed him, and it was like one risen from
the dead to find him at his elbow.

Chavelot,' he said, in a low voice.

My lord,' answered the solicitor.

I did not know the son had been discovered.'

What son, my lord V

Samuel Chalhs.'

Where is he V

At my side. If it isn't he, it's the devil.'

He has been sent for, then,' said Mr. Clave
after a glance at Sam Challis, in his turn ;
it is easy to guess what the will contains now.'

Pray, silence, gentlemen,' echoed a voice
from that part of the room where the deceased
lady's solicitor was sitting, and then it became
known that the time had come at last for the
will to be read. On the crowd assembled there
fell a sudden stillness that was remarkable, and
the faces — most of them white, anxious, and
eager — were all turned towards the man at the
table, with the paper in his hands, and the wax
lights burning on each side of him.

It was one of the shortest of documents, as
well as one of the most surprising to the majority
of those assembled. It gave and bequeathed
all that the testator possessed, in real
or personal estate, in houses, money, land, absolutely
and for ever, to Agnes Challis, then resident
with the Reverend Mr. Fare, of the Vicarage,
Grayling, and it constituted the Honourable
Frances Dangerfield sole executrix to the will.

'And that's all I' slioiitecl one red-faced man ;
not a word more V

Not a word more.'

Then, damn it, say I !'

No legacies whatever V said a pale, middle-aged,
shabbily-dressed man, who had spent
many years of his life in inditing begging-letters
to the deceased ; ' dear me, how very agra— ;
extraordinary !'

No legacies.'

« No codicil V

No codicil.'

She was mad I— mad to the very end of her
life !' raved another ; ' it's a mad mil altogether,
or she would not have left me out.'

Very mad,' Lord Redclove ventured to affirm.
Here is a valuable property bequeathed to a
stranger — her half-nurse, half-companion, for the
last few wrecks, I believe, and she whom the
testator has wronged — wronged in herself and
in her child — is constituted sole executrix by
Avay of crowning injury.'

By way of good faith,' said Frances Danger-field,
very firmly.

I shall dispute the validity of the will in
your interest — in Estelle's,' said Lord Eedelove,
very firmly also.

We will all dispute it was the general
chorus — ' every one of us.'

Agnes Challis was calm and grave, and totally
unmoved by her prosperity. The ravings of
the disappointed did not affect her, only deepened
the thoughtful look upon her face. Once,
when a relative more angry and excited than
the rest — having hoped for more, and on no
tenable ground that was apparent — came close
to her and shook his fist at her, crying, ' There
has been jugglery in this, and I'll find it out,'
she stepped back from him in alarm, and found
that Hamilton was standing between her and
the man who menaced her.

You had better leave this house quietly,'
Hamilton said to him, ' before I throat you out
of the window.'

Hush, hush !' ned Aggie ; ' no quarrelling
to-day, whatever is said — whatever they choose
to think.'

There was a Babel of soit, a roar of angry

voices in high keys and deep, discordant basses
it was a loud, prolonged howl of discomfiture,
with which one could not have credited respectable
society, had he not seen how respectability
lull behave itself on similar occasions when a
few lines on parchment or paper strike down
every hope that has been based on the filling-in
of a grave.

Lord Redclove was at his daughter's side
again. He had forgotten his gout, and walked
across the room unaided.

Thank God you are executrix, Frances !'

Why f was the answer.

You can do much. I Avill tell you presently.'

I will do what is right,' said Frances.

Exactly — of course,' replied her father. but
even you, with all your eccentricity, cannot but
see that this is a cruel and insane testament,
levelled at us in mockery and hate, to make
rich that designing young woman, and spite us
from the old woman's coffin.'

I see nothing of the land,' was the flat contradiction
proffered to her sire.

What !'

'I see that this, is a just will, and I will act
upon it to the letter,' answered Frances Dan-garfield.


You are as mad as your husband's mother
was,' hissed Lord Redclove, ' if you act for
Agnes Challis against us.'

Us /' echoed his daughter.

To be sure. The property should be yours
and Estelle's.'

'And, both dying before his lordship, there
would be a fine prospect for him and his son
said Hamilton, suddenly taking part in the conversation,
to the surprise of both of them.

Are you here, sir V said Lord Redclove,
drawing himself up very rigidly. ' I thought
you had gone to Australia.'

In good time, my lord.'

Did you expect anything from the will, that
you are hanging about here with the harpies f

Yes, I had my expectations with your lordship,
but I bear my disappointments with philosophy.
Lord Redclove,' he said, in a different
tone, 'will you allow me to introduce you to
my friend, Mr. Samuel Challis — an excellent

man — whose acquaintance I have had the
Tiononr to make within the last week V

No, no ; I don't want to know any of your
friends,' cried his lordship, in alarm. ' Chavelot,
your arm — get me away from this gang, for
God's sake !'

The solicitor offered his arm to Lord Redclove,
and the valet, who had been grinning his head
off at the turmoil for the last ten minutes, followed
in the rear. There was a crowd to force
a way through — a crowd far from complaisant,
and streaming towards the door also — and one
of its atoms planted a heavy boot on his lordship's
bad foot, and elicited a roar of anguish,
which would have been highly effective if there
had been less noise in the room, and more consideration
for aristocratic feeling. Into the night
and the drifting snow — for it was snowing hard
again in Overcome — passed away his lordship
and the lawyer ; and the hungry, the penniless,
the greedy, and the crestfallen drifted, like the
snow, after them, and melted away into the
-darkness.

CHAPTER 11.

AFTER THEY HAD GONE.

They were left together at last — the legatee
and executrix — the only two persons whom old
Mrs. Dangerfield had mentioned in her will, or
had appeared to be on her mind at the time of
her bequeathing. The relations had all departed,
the friends had withdrawn, Hamilton
and Samuel Chalks were away, Estelle had gone
to her room, wondering a little, but too young
and with too little love of money at her heart
to care for Agnes Chalhs's stepping into the
property ; and now Agnes and Frances Danger-field
Avere in their old positions by the fire, with

the one who used to watch them furtively away
from them for ever.

You do not seem elated by your good fortune,'
said Frances Dangerfield, after they had
sat some time in silence.

I am not elated ; this is not a time when
I should feel much joy at anything,' was the
answer.

Still you are rich.'

It would not have given me one pang if
all the property had been yours,' Aggie replied ;
or had been thrown amongst that hungry
crowd that has gone away railing at my duplicity.
It will give me no pain if they contest
the will, and win the day of me. I am not fond
of money.'

They cannot — they dare not contest it without
my help ; and I am your friend in this. You
Avill trust me V she asked.

Why should I not said Agnes, taking the
hand extended to her ; * she Who died must have
been sure you would be my friend.'

Yes, she was sure of that,' was the moody
answer.

Mrs. Dangerfield, there was a reason for it.
May I tell you what I think it is, and not offend
you

Frances Dangeirfield shrank back in her chair
in some alarm.

Not all your suppositions and suspicions. No,'
she cried, ' ]pray, spare me !'

Do you know what they will be, then V Aggie
said.

I can guess, knowing who you are.'

You are my friend, you say V remarked
Aggie, curiously.

I call heaven solemnly to witness that I am,'
was the reply.

Thank you ; only you seemed afraid of me
just now,' said Agnes, thoughtfully.

Afraid of what you might say. Yes,' she
confessed, ' for there is one scene in the past
which I can never look back at. Spare me, if
you can, Agnes ; I am not so strong a woman as
I used to be.'

*Yes, you are weaker than I thought,' said
Agnes, steadily regarding her; 'you have grown
a weaker woman even in Warwickshire.'

VOL. III. N

I have had much to try me stammered the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield. ' Estelle, for instance.'


Ah ! yes — Estelle,' said Aggie. ' Is she disappointed,
too, I wonder f

Why should she be ? I have enough money
to leave her.'

I suppose so — I don't know,' said Aggie,
absently.

There was a long silence again.

'Of what are you thinking now?' inquired
Mrs. Dangerfield, suddenly.

Of the papers that should have been in the
safe along with the will,' answered Aggie. ' Did
not the poor lady tell you of the papers we were
to read together?'

Mrs. Dangerfield's clasped hands tightened involuntarily,
but she answered, in a calm, unbroken
voice,

I have not heard of any papers.'

She would have told you of them had she
lived twenty-four hours longer,' said Aggie;
they were on her mind that night.'

What papers did she say they were V

Papers of my mother and — of my father, before
he knew you, Mrs. Dangerfielcl.'

Indeed !' replied the widow.

They would have explained the nature of the
will,' she said.

She might have imagined all this, or she
might have destroyed them in the study a few
minutes before she died.-*

Yes, she might have destroyed them,' murmured
Aggie ; ' I have thought of that.'

To spare both our feelings, surely.'

And yet to leave this will an incomprehensibility.'


'Why, is it incomprehensible to you V asked
the widow.

Oh ! not to me,' was Aggie's quick answer;
it is all very clear to me, but the world will
wonder at the wisdom of appointing as executrix
the woman whose child is cut out of the
inheritance.'

She who has died was fond of you. That is
our answer,' said the widow.

It is a weak one.'

There was another pause, during which the

n2

widow looked long and studiously at the fair
girl hy the fire — the heiress whom riches had
depressed. Agnes ChalKs was not easily content,
it was evident ; wealth did not seem to
pacify her. What did she know ? what did she
guess at? Why would she not accept her high
position in a better spirit, and settle down to
affluence with a gi-hateful heart?

Why is the will so very clear to you, Agnes T
asked the widow, somewhat timidly. 'Has it
been explained to you ? were you prepared for
its contents?'

I was not prepared for all her money.'
But this will is no surprise to you?'
'No. It speaks of a sum paid me for my
silence — the price for the papers that have disappeared,
who knows ?'

Ah ! who knows ? The Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield's heart winced, but she had already
become a clever woman at disguise ; and, all
that was at stake, no one knew better than she.
Possibly she had not acted a wise part in refusing
to listen to Agnes Challis's theory as to why
she, Frances Dangerfield, had been constituted

executrix to the will. It might be well to know,
at any cost to herself or her pride, all that was
in the young girl's thoughts to cast so deep a
shadow on her.

A little while ago, Agnes, I implored you
not to speak of the past to me,' she said, suddenly,
' but unless we talk of it freely — for this
once and ever — it seems impossible to be the
friends we might become. And I am your friend
in everything now, if you will only let me be so.'

I have not so many friends that I should
turn away from you,' said Agnes, sadly, 'and
Estelle is my half-sister, whom I love.'

I am glad this money comes to you,' said
Frances Dangerfield ; ' I have not an atom's
worth of envy in my heart concerning it. It is
as a reparation of the wrong done your mother
by my husband,' she added, suddenly.

This was a test phrase, and it had its efl^Bct.
Aggie Challis sat back , with a heightened colour
and a new expression on her face.

'Mrs. Dangerfield, I believed in my mother,'
she cried.

In what way do you mean V

In her honour and good-faith — in the truth
of her story.'

Well,' said the Honourable Mrs. Danger field,
with an effort, ' tell me what that story is, and
let me judge it for myself. I shall be strong
enough to bear it, and to point out where the
error lies. We have fought too long against
mutual confidence.'

Agnes hesitated, but it was not in distrust. She
would spare this proud woman if she could, and
she knew that her mother's history, without facts
to back it, would seem like a wild dream. And
yet, after all, it would account for much, and
she might tell it to her briefly, and set herself,
at least, in a clearer light.

I have no evidence to help me,' Aggie said,
I have been all my life seeking for it. I have
been imprisoned in a wild effort to secure it, and
I believe that I have been close upon it in this
house.'

'Evidence of what?' asked her anxious
listener.

Madam, I shall pain you very much, and you
will not believe me,' said Aggie, with excitement

now, * but say this is for once and for ever then,
and let me speak. I have shrunk back till now,
even for my own sake, lady, knowing what a
blow the truth would be to you — if this were
really a truth that I could prove.'

Go on,' said the widow, faintly, 'I guess what
you are going to say, poor child. It is natural
for you to think the best of the mother — it is
charitable and kind.'

I think, then, that my poor mother was
married to Paul Dangerfield,' said Aggie, very
firmly ; ' that, when he met her in America, he
loved her at least well enough to give her his
name. My mother never told me that, even for
her credit's sake, till she lay ill one day, and I
had grown almost a young woman, and my
father had been unkind and harsh in his reply to
a letter which she had written to him begging
for more help.'

Your mother '

Pardon me, but let me finish,' said Aggie;
'my mother was of an eccentric, passionate, wild
nature, acting not as other women Avould have
done under similar troubles, but in all my life I

have no remembrance of her telling me a he.
She was a truthful woman.'

Frances Dangerfielcl did not contradict her
again. She waited very patiently for the whole
history, and sat a white, dumb statue facing
her.

She told me,' Aggie continued, ' that they
were married in America, in an out-of-the-way
little church that she could not remember then,
and that it was a most unhappy match. They
came to England shortly afterwards, keeping
the marriage a secret, for his friends' sake, and
his fortune's sake, until life should become less
of an uncertainty with him. Then followed
jealousy, and misery, and much injustice to my
mother, until one day she stole away from him,
taking the children with her.'

And with Lord Esdaile for companion — I
have heard that part of the story, poor child.'

It was not true,' cried Aggie — * not a syllable
of that report was true, I swear to heaven
now. Lord Esdaile did not accompany my mother,
who went abroad again, and who was reported
to have died abroad. My mother always

loved Paul Dangerfield — from the beginning to
the end she loved him, with all her wilful heart.
When she came back to England years afterwards,
and found that, believing in the report
of her death, he had manned you, she kept his
secret at all cost to her good name. He wrote
of the ruin it would be to him to own the truth,
and she accepted from him an annual income, and
held her peace, until he was hard and cruel, and
her heart turned against him. All his letters to
her — every proof that she possessed of the marriage
in America— were in the hands of one she
thought her friend, and it was this friend who
was bought-over by your father and mine —
perhaps by old Mrs. Dangerfield — to betray her.
In endeavouring to secure the papers, I was
arrested at Chester, and it was my father who,
hearing from the mother of my arrest, was
hastening to see her, and to save me, when the
accident occurred which killed him.'

Why did not your mother state this at the
trial V

She was dying then in Derbyshire. Father
and mother were both strangely past the power

of helping me by a single word. I was found
in a house ransacking a bureau. I offered
no explanation — I had been instructed to wait
my trial patiently, and keep silence, for all sakes
and, when the trial came, I held my peace,
and wondered where my friends were. There,'
cried Aggie, * that is my story, as well as my
mother's, but it will explain the mystery that
has been about my unlucky life.'

A strange mystery and a strange history,
Agnes,' commented Frances Dangerfield, ' and
you have acted like a true woman in trusting
in the mother. But that my husband ever married
her you must not ask me to believe — it is
irreconcilable with every action of his life.'

Still I believe it,' murmured xlgnes.

'Ah ! that is natural, too,' answered the other;
I honour you none the less for it, though it is
a blow that strikes at me keenly. It may be
well not to rob yourself of an illusion that holds
your mother sacred in your eyes. It is as well
that the past should lie back from you and me ;
and even were you right, and I deceived, what
good could follow to either of us, and what

misery might not arise ? Be content, Agnes,
with the present, with the wealth your strange
grandmother has bequeathed to yon ; and let
ns forget what may or may not have influenced
lives that are no longer with us. Let us befriends
— for Estelle's sake.'

She added this, and it was not till Estelle's
name was mentioned that the face of Aggie
Challis softened wondrously. Yes, for the sister's
sake, it might be well to let the story rest.
Who in the world would be likely to believe it,
save one or two good friends who had believed
in her from the first ?

It was pleasant to be friends with Mrs. Dan-garfield,
to feel sure she had outlived all past
dislikes, and that the clouds were clearing from
the future. There was a supreme satisfaction
in knowing that Estelle's mother was on her
side, and would fight her battles against her
own self-interest, and Aggie Challis could always
believe her mother's history in her heart,
and take the legacy bequeathed her as her
birthright. She would be rich, and make others
rich — Sam Chalhs, Dan Overdo wn, and one

other who had been kind to her, and whom the
turn of fortune's wheel had left as poor as Job.

She wrote to Daniel Overdown, at Birmingham,
late as was the hour before she bade goodnight
to Frances Dangerfield ; informed him of
her sudden rise to prosperity, hinted at the good
she might do with the money, and the assistance
she hoped to prove to all her friends. She
was not exultant ; her letter was tinged \^dth
regret for the loss of her father's mother ; there
was no shade of difference in her manner of addressing
her lover, but in his little shabby house
in Birmingham, the epistle came not as a comfort
to him. She was away from him, rich now,
and surrounded by rich friends, and he would
have seemed further removed from her by the
will, had she not been plighted to him. He
was not elated at his good fortune — for hers
was really his, and she was not a woman whom
a man could doubt — and as he bent over the
letter, and read it by the firelight, there were
deep lines across his forehead, like a man
deciphering an enigma, the solution of which
might be a sting to him.

There was no mention of their marriage —
though there was scarcely a reason for delay
now — and there Alas a strong hint that he
might wish for money shortly to set np in
business for himself, and that he might call
upon her to grant most readily every penny
which she could spare for him and his success.

It was very kind, but she wrote like a woman
grateful for the past, and not happy in her
outlook at the future. Like a dear friend
standing apart from him, and, despite her sympathy
, really not as one looking forward to
beginning life with him. But the times were
early yet since their engagement and the rich
woman's death, and he was never himself now.
He was away from the woman he loved ; and
he had ceased to be happy in her absence.

CHAPTER III.

A CALL AT MR. Faire's.

The sudden death of the mistress of Overcome
Park had foiled many intentions for better and
worse, retarded the actions of our characters,
and sown the seeds of various changes.

Hamilton E-edclove did not, as pur readers
are aware, take his departure to London on
the morning that he had announced his intention
of so doing. He was not required as
escort for his cousin Frances, who had been
asked by her father to remain as a spy in her
own interest, and who, resenting advice, had,
with woman-like contrariety, resolved to return
to London immediately. He was in no hurry

to reach town on his account, and the death
of okl Mrs. Dangei'field had rendered him anxious
to see — though surely this was no business
of his — in what particular way the catastrophe
would affect one in whom he felt a strong
interest.

Hamilton Redclove remained at Grayling,
keeping himself out of the way of the heiress,
and out of the way of his cousins, until the day
of the funeral, when he walked into the big
drawing-room, and heard the will read, which
made Aggie Challis rich, and walked out again
without offering his congratulations.

He looked in at Mr. Fayre's to tell the news,
and to inveigh against the greed of the relatives
whom he had confronted ; and he spoke
bitterly against riches in general, as we wise
folk, without much chance of them, are in the
habit of doing. He foresaw trouble ahead too,
and opposition to the will, and a hard fight
for Aggie Challis. He did not believe in his
cousin Frances sitting down to the loss with
complacency, and he feared her power as executrix,
should her pride or her cupidity resent

the last Lavishes of Paul Dangerfield's mother.
Therefore he waited in Grayling. He woiild
be glad to know that Agnes Challis's position
in life was secure before he went away ; that
he left her with many friends, and with nota
single enemy in the world ; and, when he
learned that his cousin was anxious to can
out the contents of the will to the letter, he
began to think that his wishes might come
true, and he might leave her very safely. In
his heart, he would have been glad of an opportunity
to show himself her friend again, and
in some way or other which even her troubles
might bring about ; but there were no troubles
ahead, and no chance of demonstrating the
intensity of his friendship.

The story was at an end, and it was time to
go away. Aggie Challis would come into her
rights, and marry Daniel Overdown. The man
who had cared for her in her poverty and
tribulation — and the man she cared for ! — would
be rewarded by prosperity, and by that love
of hers, without Which prosperity would not
be worth having.

It was like a play, and it ended with the
harmonious coupling of the characters. This
was the fifth act, the green curtain was descending,
and everybody was happy in the glare
of the footlights, save himself — who was out
of that little love-drama, and glowering at it
enviously from a back-seat in the pit. He
could not help feeling envious at times; he
tried not, but there were many moments of
failure. He was sorry Aggie was going to
marry the gunsmith ; for her sake only, he considered,
until he discovered that he could not
fix on any individual whom he or she had ever
known that he would be glad to see her husband.
She was better by herself, in the clear
light of day about her, and as he had ever
known her — what did she want to marry for,
ere she had had time to look round, and to
realise the change which her new world and
her new position in it created ? Not that she
would change with the world, or that the gunsmith
Overdown would not make her a good
husband ; but he could not reflect calmly upon
the idea of Aggie ChaUis's coming marriage. It

VOL. III. O

was no business of his, still it made him miserable
to think of it; it unsettled him disastrously.


He had become very friendly with the Faites
of late days, and he had taken an odd fancy for
the society of Sam Challis, who, though rough
and outspoken, was a man of intelligence, and
whose stories of the new world constituted a
greater temptation to his listener than he was
aware of at the time. Besides, Sam Challis was
an honest fellow, Hamilton considered, and had
paid him back his two hundred pounds when
money was of service to him, and Sam Alas
going to a land where it was easy to earn more,
the man being in the right groove, and able
and industrious.

Sam, you must take me with you,' he said
one day, when they were both at the vicarage.

Samuel Challis had fallen into the habit of
calling at the vicarage very frequently himself,
and neither Mr. Fayre nor his daughter, especially
his daughter, could understand why he
dropped in so constantly.

« What— to America?'

'Yes.'

You'll not care for roughing it in my part
of the country,' said Sam Challis.

I am not afraid of work.'

There are your friends in England.'

I haven't one friend from whom I shall be
son-y to part,' said Hamilton.

That's a compliment,' said Bella, with a
mock curtsey, ' and my father and I are greatly
obliged to you.'

But will be glad to get rid of me, nevertheless,'
answered Hamilton, with a little laugh;
for I have been a terrible bore here, and very
much in the way.'

I know I'm in the Avay, too,' said Sam,
thoughtfully ; ' but I' should like to see Aggie
in possession of her property — to feel quite sure
that there will be no opposition to the will,
before I leave England for good. There's no
one likely to miss me, at any rate.'

Certainly not,' said Bella Fayre, very positively.


Sam looked at her, and reddened very much
at her answer. She was saucy and sprightly',

o2

and awfully pleasant company ; he was afraid
that he should miss her a little.

This was out-of-door talk in the big garden
of the vicarage. It was a bright afternoon,
with the air bracing and the sky bright ; the
mistress of Overcome Park had been buried
just a fortnight. It was striking two in the
church tower, when two new-comers in deep
mourning came upon the scene — Agnes Chalhs
and Estelle Dangerfield. They had walked
across the fields to the vicarage ; that well-known
short cut to Grayling that was ever
memorable to Aggie Challis and to Hamilton
Kedclove.

I thought you had deserted us in your prosperity,
Aggie,' said Bella Fayre, after greetings
had been exchanged, ' and forgotten even yom-poor
friends in the village.'

I hope I have not forgotten anybody,'
answered Aggie.

You two girls are just in time to say goodbye
to Mr. Eedclove, too said Bella, with eyes
keenly watching the effect of her announcement
; * he is really on the eve of his departure

on this occasion — absolutely and positively-arranging
for his last appearance in warwickshire


Not going to leave us at once !' cried Estelle,
very white on 'the instant at the announcement
which Bella Fayre had made.

Going — away — now !' said Agnes Challis,
less impulsively, but with a rapid change of
colour too.

I have just asked My. Challis to take me
"with him to America,' said Hamilton. *Your
brother,' he added to our heroine, ' has drawn
so bright a picture of the new world that
the temptation is too great for me to withstand.'


No one caring for him in the old world
either, or, rather, no one existing in it to whom
he shall be sorry to say good-bye. I believe,'
said Bella, * that was the polite way of putting
it, Mr. Redclove.'

Miss Fayre, you are incorrigible,' he said,
petulantly, as he walked away from the group.
He did not walk far, however ; for, to his astonishment,
Agnes followed him, and Bella, Estelle,

and Sam Calls strolled in another direction,,
as if by previous arrangement.

I have told them I wanted to talk to you fora
few moments said Agnes Challis very frankly,
as she came np with him ; * shall I be encroaching
upon your time, Mr. Redclove V

Not at all,' he replied, in mild surprise.
I came over here, with Estelle, in search of
you.'

You are very good,' he murmured ; ' does

Estelle '

Know what I am going to say ? — yes,' said
Aggie, in Reply.

He did not appear interested after this;
he walked on moodily by her side, with his
gaze directed to the frost-bound garden-path,
and waited patiently for her to resume the conversation.


You wrote a letter to your cousin Frances
last night V Aggie said.
He started.

Did she show it you?' he inquired.
she told me its contents,' Aggie replied;
and I was interested in it. You wished to

know when the property was likely to be absolutely
mine ; — when it was perfectly certain
there could be no opposition from the family.
You were only waiting at Grayling — waiting*
in England — to make sm'e that there was
peace for all of ns, and then to proceed your
own Avay in life, and seek your fortunes elsewhere.'


That was the purport of my letter, certainly
he said.

Your cousin Frances did not gather from it
neither did I from her relation of its contents,
that you contemplated that immediate departure
of which Miss Fayi-e has apprised me this
morning.'

I am unsettled — I shall be only too glad to
get away,' he confessed.

'I thought it was likely you might leave
hastily,' said Aggie, * and I came over in hot
haste myself to see you.'

It was too frank a confession to make his
heart thrill as with an avowal of her preference
for him, her deep interest in him, but he regarded
her with his old look of surprise.

I am not going away to-day,' he said.

Perhaps not ; — but I thought — I felt that at
any moment you might disappear, and the
chance would never come to say all that was in
mj mind concerning you.'

Proceed, [Miss Chalhs ; you puzzle me immensely,'
he said, all curiosity now.

You will not be offended with me, whatever
I say ? You will believe, Mr. Redclove, that it
is in earnest and in good faith V

Yes.'

This may be the last time you and I will
meet — I think it is the last time,' said Aggie,
and I wish to speak straightforwardly.'

Not a word that you can say to me, not an
announcement you can make, Miss Chalks,' he
replied, in a deep voice, ' but I will receive it in
good faith, knowing it is honestly meant, and
that it comes from you.'

Agnes Challis blushed at the earnestness with
which he spoke, and dashed into the subject
forthwith. It was time to explain, before fresh
complications arose.

Concerning Estelle, first of all,' she said,

very hurriedly ; ' my half-sister, whom I love,
and for whose future I would strive. You —
you can leave her for ever, without a pang,
then?'

r am Sony to leave anyone whom I have
known and respected ; but yes, I can leave her
without any deep regret V

She does not belong to your life?'

God forbid !' was Hamilton's unceremonious
answer.

There's an end of it. You understand what I
mean, there need be no disguise between us
concerning that poor child.'

Poor child, indeed !' muttered Hamilton,
and she knows, you say, the object of your
coming here.'

'No, no, not that,' answered Aggie; 'I have
not stated the object of my coming yet.'

Indeed,' said Hamilton, « then your interest
in Estelle and me is a sudden thought, as it
were?'

*1 wished, for Estelle's sake, to be quite

sure '

Miss Challis, you might have been quite

sure some weeks ago, when we walked across
the fields,' he murmured, half-reproachfully,
and yet you torture me again to-day.'

'Forgive me,' murmured Aggie, 'I have
never been quite sure, for you have never been
quite frank with me.'

True,' he responded, ' but I have nothing to
forgive.'

There was a side-gate here entering upon
those fields to which he had pointed, and they
paused, hesitated, and then passed through
together.

I Avould rather they did not hear what I
have to say to you,' said Agnes ; ' shall we go a
little way in this direction ?'

If you can trust me,' he said.

I can trust you,' she replied, confidently.

Thank you,' he said, ' but this is an unlucky
spot — to me !'

CHAPTER IV.

ONE GOOD TURN DESERVES ANOTHER.'

Agnes Challis did not respond to the last
remark of her companion. She was not quite
certain that it was intended for her ears, his
voice sank so low in the final utterance. Unlucky
to him ! — why should it be unlucky ? she
dared hardly ask herself at that time, and ^vith
the business of the day, the task she had set
herself, upon her mind still.

It is a very commonplace remark to say the
world is full of change,' said Aggie, *but it
paves the way to my communication. Five or
six years ago my brother and I were very poor,
and you were, in our estimation and in your

own, a rich man, with bight prospects in life
stretching out before yoii.'

A man with so high an opinion of himself
and his surroundings that he deserved to come
to this,' Hamilton added.

No ; that is not true,' was Aggie's quick reply.

Hamilton smiled at this flat denial to his
assertion, and shrugged his shoulders a little,
but he was pleased immensely — pleased, in his
heart, at the impulse which defended him
against his own personal attack.

We were very poor and you were rich,' said
Aggie again, ' and, in the fulness of your heart,
you helped us. Now that we are likely to be
rich — for I class my brother with myself — weare
anxious to help you.'

Now that I am very poor,' he added.

Yes ; you have owned it.'

Have your brother and you talked this little
matter over V

Not yet. But I know I can speak for him,'
was the reply.

It is more consolatory to my feelings to hear
you speak for yourself,' said Hamilton, in a

troubled voice ; ' to listen to all you have
thought out for me in my poverty.'

I have thought how easy it would be for me
to lighten your load in life.'

Oh, yes !' he cried. ' I know that — I feel
that — but not with your money. Forgive me
again,' he said, in a different and colder tone,
but your offer of pecuniary support has unnerved
me more than I can tell you — I am less
of a stoic than I thought I was.'

Yes, yes ; 1 was afraid myself ' and then

Aggie turned in the direction of the vicarage
again, and, as he turned with her, his dark face
fell into shadow.

You were afraid of me,' he said ; ' experience
had assured you already that I was thoroughly
untrustworthy.'

No ; don't think that.'

'And I am. I am not to be trusted with
you,' he said, almost fiercely ; ' let us get back
to the parson's garden as soon as we can.'

There was not to be a word of satire or an
unkind word between us to-day,' said Agnes
very gently.

'1 have not spoken satirically or in unkindness,'
he replied ; ' I am not to be trusted, so
help me, Heaven !'

< Still I trust you,' answered Aggie, confidently
; ' yo"Li trusted me in the face of a dark
mystery, and I have faith in you — I always
had;

'I will never abuse it by telling you what
mystery is at my heart to make all this a dream,'
he cried ; ' pray go on. Let us finish this talk
of the money which you want to waste upon
me

I claim my right to help you, Mr. Redclove,'
said his companion, very firmly ; ' and I deny
your right to turn away from any assistance I
may proffer you. You have laid Sam and
myself under a lasting obligation, and you
cannot pain us by saying you will have no help
at our hands.'

You speak as if I were a pauper — a man
struggling for a day's bread,' said Hamilton,
when I have money at command.'

The money which Sam returned to you.'

Well, yes.'

*And which must go to pay your debts iu

town,' she continued.

How do you know I have any debts V

Your cousin Frances knows ; she has heard

it from Lord Redclove.'

Oh, hang Lord Redclove ! I beg pardon for
anathematising my uncle in your presence, but
I see now that he has been sneering at me and
my poverty.'

Which I respect. Mr. Redclove,' she urged,
you do not, you cannot, guess how these riches
will weigh me down, if you wall not let me be
grateful in my turn, and if those whom I would
help pass from me in their pride, and crush me
with their scornful independence.'

Not scornful, iVggie,' he said, quickly. ' God
forbid that.'

For the second time in his life her Christian
name had escaped his lips, and thrilled her
coming from them. She looked, in a scared
manner, at him ; and he said, half apologetically,

I am not myself this morning, your kindness
has confused me ; but, if I say " No " to all your
generous heart has prompted you to offer, it is

not in obstinacy or pride — at least, in that pride
which in any way wounds yours.'

You have no right to say " No," ' persisted
Aggie, half angrily, half sorrowfully.

I think I have,' he answered, very gently,
for I am not so desperately poor, so deplorably
reduced in circumstances, that the time has
come for yoa to save me. A man is always at
his best when he can help himself — he is braver
and brighter; and you would only cast me
down instead of give me courage.'

But '

I shall go abroad in a few days possibly,
With your brother Sam,' he continued, interrupting
her. * I have a craving for a new life
in the Western States, and money is not wanted
there so much as stout hands and stout hearts.'

Hard work is not fitting for you.'

'Why? It is hard work which vnll do me
good, and of which I am not afraid,' said Hamilton.
' It will cure me of all past follies and
useless ambitions; it will set one disappointment
of my life at ^a greater distance from
me.'

Agnes shivered, and her heart felt like a dead
weight within her.

•I did not think the loss of your position
would have been so great a disappointment as
all this,' she murmured ; and then she was sorry
that those words had escaped her, for she had
not believed in them for an instant. She had
Avished to convey the meaning that she had
misunderstood — had never comprehended — what
his disappointment in life might be. Sm-ely, she
asked herself, it was not possible for her to read
all that was in his heart, and to take it to her
own !

She was very sorry she had implied that his
disappointment, in her estimation, must mean
his loss of title and estates. He was regarding
the grass at her feet very gravely as he said,

Men do not fall from affluence with an easy
grace at any time — they are naturally disappointed
at all which comes between them and
their selfishness. Still,' he added, looking into
her fair face intently, ' you must not make me
selfish again by offering money before I am in
need of it. I am none the less your debtor

VOL. III. P

because I cannot accept it — none the less grateful
for the generous impulse which has led you
to my rescue — none the less your true and
faithful friend.'

He held his hands towards her, and she took
them without a fear of him.

God bless you !' he murmured, ' and thank
you — thank you, a thousand times — for all you
would do to help me.'

And if at any time you Avant help ?'

I will come to you — there !'

That is a promise,' cried Aggie.

Yes. And failing to want help ' — his hands
tightened strangely in her own — ' it is goodbye,
and I shall never see your face again in all
my life !'

What do you mean ?' Aggie gasped forth.

I shall leave Grayling this evening — I am no
use here — I have made up my mind at last.
Good-bye,' he cried.

Good-bye, but '

Aggie, this is good-bye,' lie said, still clinging
to her hands, and with all his love reflected
in his changing looks. ' Never to see you in all

my life again — yon heard me say that — and it is
God's truth, I think. Good-bye ; pity me for
once !'

He drew her hj her hands more closely to
him, and she did not resist him whole'. There
was a greater spell than her strong weill against
it to take her by a faltering step towards him,
and strip the veil from the unreality her life
Alas. He was going away for ever, and she was
scared by the truth, and less of a heroine.

He kissed her with his quivering lips, and she
did not shrink from them. She turned away
with the tears blinding her suddenly with their
force, but it was when his hands had released
hers, and they had parted for good.

For the good, at least, of Daniel Overdown,
who was tramping across the fields towards
them once again.

p 2

CHAPTER Y.

BELLA SPEAKS OUT.

Agnes Challis returned slowly to the vicarage
the mission was accomplished ; it had been a
total failure, and it was time to be gone. She
had entered the garden by the wicket again, asa
woman might pass out of Paradise into the
dark world lying beyond it — everything had
changed with her, she had opened her eyes, at
last, to the truth, and it was hard to bear.
These after-days, which should have been to
her the best and brightest of her life, were full
of gloom and misery; the consciousness of all
that she had lost, of all that she had promised,
of all the hopes that her own acts had cut her

adrift from, was weighing her clown with a force
beyond her power to cope with. She was firm
and grave as she passed into the garden, but
her heart was very weak and womanly.

Bella Fay re and Samuel Challis were walking
up and down the broad garden conversing
together with an earnestness that at another
period would have been matter for surprise to
the young woman advancing, but Estelle Dan-garfield
was not with them.

Where is Estelle?' asked Agnes.

Have you not met her?' rejoined Bella ; 'she
wished to join you — to add her persuasions to
your own, thinking they might have more
weight nth Hamilton.'

Bella laughed merrily at this ; but there was
no change on the set features of Agnes
ChaUis.

Has she told you then ?' began our heroine.

Oh, yes, everything,' said Bella, interrupting
her ; * when her heart is full, every little secret
comes from it. How strange you did not meet
her!'

How long has she been gone ?'

Five minutes, perhaps, not more.'

She must have seen us,' murmured Aggie to
herself; 'what will she think? what will she
say

'I 'Suppose this was no secret, Aggie, which
you wished to keep from me V asked her brother,
a little anxiously.

No, Sam ; but I would have preferred to tell
yon myself presently.'

It's no business of mine,' he said, carelessly ;
still, I do not like to be quite out of your confidence,
for the little time I stay here.'

I cannot bear reproach to-day, Sam — spare
me, please !' she said, faintly.

You are ill !' cried Bella.

No, no, I am well enough, but I shall be glad
to get home.'

< Aggie,' said Sam, * I can see your mission
has been a failure. I could have told you that
it would have been, had you asked my advice
two days ago. He is an awfully proud fellow.'

Yes, I knew that.'

But I like him. I shall be glad if he goes
back with me to America.'

He spoke to me of going,' said Aggie, wondering
more and more.

Though he's not fitted for the rough work of
the backwoods, for clearing land, sheep farming,
and so forth, still, he's no fool,' Sam Challis
remarked, ' and I'm proud of his friendship. You
offered him money, Aggie V

Yes ; I should have known better ; but his
cousin told me how very poor he Alas, and 1 did
not know what to do. I thought,' she added,
sadly, ' that a favour from me would have been
less like a favour, considering the past.'

Ay, considering the past, but then he is not
the same man we met in it, girl.'

What would you have done, Sam V his sister
asked"*

* Heaven knows ! Left him alone, for a
time, at all events ; not dashed at him in a
hm-ry.'

I wish 1 had now ; and yet, no — I don't,' she
said, very irrelevantly. 'You do not blame me,
Sam 'V

You are your own mistress. Blame you, for
what

For offering him the money that will be om'S
presently,' she replied.

That will be yomvs,' said Sam, with emphasis ;
< for I cannot share it with yon, girl. I am
going to make my own fortune.'

Ah ! — well,' said Aggie, wearily, ' I cannot
argue with you concerning this money now. I
am tired of the talk of it. I wish Estelle would
come back.'

Will she, do you think V asked Bella.

Agnes started. There was a peculiar expression
on the face of the clergyman's daughter
that suggested something more.

She will not return home Avithout me, surely V
Aggie said.

I don't know. She is a singular girl, and she
Avent away in a hurry, after standing some time
at the wicket there.'

'I will go in search of her,' said Aggie,
nervously, ' I shall overtake her, very shortly.'

This is a runaway visit, but I don't like to
detain you,' Bella answered.

She walked rapidly to the side of our heroine,
and Sam Challis, fancying he was not

wanted just then, turned in another direction.

'Aggie,' said Bella, with great excitement,

when they were side by side together, ' Estelle

Danger-field is a little fool, and that's all about

itr

Hush ! What has she done V

I don't know ; but she broke away from us,
and went to watch you and Hamilton. I hope
she caught the pair of you love-making in
earnest — it would serve her right, for thinking
of a man who never dreamed of her.'

Soli must not speak like this — and to me!'
cried Aggie Challis, indignantly : ' you have no
right !'

Yes, I have, because I love you too much,
darling, to see you throw yourself away upon
that gunsmith. Because you love Hamilton
Kedclove, and he loves you, and neither of you
can help it, thank goodness !'

Oh, Bella, Bella, don't!'

I will not say another word, only I hope it is
not too late.'

Too late for what ? I am engaged to Daniel
Overdown. You — you have no right to talk

to me in this way !' said Aggie, rebellions
again.

There, I have done. Good-day. Fight this
out with Steele Dangerfield, not nth me. It's
not my affair !' and the excited young lady shut
the wicket after Agnes ChalKs, and went back to
the brother.

Look here, Sam Chalks she said, fearlessly ;
this is a nice muddle, and I told you how it
would be before your sister came back. And you
profess to be fond of her !'

Fond of her, yes ; but what can I do T

Tell Daniel Overdown the truth, and not let
her throw herself away. If you don't, I Vim,
And if I have to do it '

'Weir

Then I'll never speak to you again !'

'But if she likes Dan?'

Get out — she does not !'

I believe she does,' said Sam, thoughtfully.

'You don't know anything about these
things,' cried Bella, contemptuously. ' She
is making herself miserable, and others miserable,
and you must stand up for your sister.'

The next time I see Dan Overdown, I'll have
a little serious talk with him,' said Sam,
after a minute's further consideration of these.


CHAPTER VI.

DESPAIR.

Agnes Challis did not overtake Estelle in the
homeward route to Overcome. Across the
fields there was no sign of her. There was a
sense of fear at the heart of the new mistress of
Overcome that all was not well with Estelle
Dangerfield, and that the beginning of fresh
cares would date from that visit to the vicarage.
she was unhappy herself now ; — she had parted
with Hamilton Redclove for good, and the discovery
had come to her with overwhelming-force
that the man loved her, and was unhappy
because he had lost her. He had seemed to belong
to another sphere than hers, until love had

levelled all distinctions, and he had betrayed his
secret. If she had only known it earlier — if she
had had the faith to believe in him more — if she
had not been wilfully blind throughout, and
groped on in the darkness to this bitterest of discomfiture
! But she had not known all the
truth till that day, and now she had brought
misery to many in a wild effort to be grateful
to one. She had turned friends to enemies, and
the fitful light, that had shone of late days on her
23ath, would die out in a denser darkness than
the first had been. What was to follow this
she could not guess, but that the troubles were
closing round her it was easy to perceive. Well,
it was her life throughout, perhaps, and as it
began it Avould end. God knows, she had
fought hard to do her best, and, now, God help
the failure she had been !

And Estelle, the half-sister, what were her
feelings on awakening also to the fact that
Aggie Challis and Hamilton Kedclove loved
each other in real earnest ? It is Estelle, weak
and wilful, to whom we turn at this crisis in the
fates of many of our characters. She had been

witness to the parting between those two to
whom her heart had been drawn; she had seen
from the distance their earnest conversation,
their excitement, their first and last embrace —
token of the strong affection which had betrayed
itself in that hour. She had seen their hips
meet in a passionate, tearful parting, and
from that moment she hated both of them. Until
then she had had a faint hope of winning
Hamilton; her poor little vanities had long since
sided with her love, and made excuses for years
of appreciation. She had seen less clearly
through the glass than Aggie Challis. This
awakening was a terrible ordeal, for she had
been lacking in that moral strength which had
carried the half-sister safely over the quicksands.
In trouble Aggie Challis was strong,
and at her best ; whilst Estelle was only a weak,
fretful child, whom disappointment crushed
utterly.

Aggie had passed her in the fields, for Estelle
had crouched under the hedgerows, fearing to
encounter her, or to trust herself with a word.
She was mad with despair, and knew not what

to do. The weak, delicate girl had become a
fury beneath the consciousness of the deceit
which she believed now had been practised on
her from the first. She had been made a dupe,
her love-secrets had been lured from her — she
who had never been able to keep a secret in
her life ! — and a cruel, crafty girl had profited
by it to her own advantage. Agnes Challis had
stolen her lover from her, and left her without
a hope in the world. Alas there any of the
madness of the grandmother at the brain of
this excited girl, who raved of wrongs and
infidelity and misplaced affection as though
she had been Hamilton's affianced ^^^fe. She
was very weak; it had never l^een her task to
understand the world, its temptations and trials.
She had lived on in a world of her own, and
had set her heart on a man who had never
cared for her — one of the wildest errors that a
poor woman can commit.

The twilight deepened round her whilst she
was pacing the fields, resolved what to do.
She was an injured woman, whose confidence
had been abused, and she could not, would not,

go back to Overcome. Under the same roof
with Aggie Chalhs would be torture insupportable.
She am'ved at this resolution when she
was half-way towards Overcome, and she
hurried back With sAvift steps in the direction
of the vicarage, thinking that with Bella Fayre
there would be companionship — perhaps solace.
She paused when the vicarage was near, and
hesitated once more. Bella Fa}T.'e had never
understood her, had treated lightly her little
spasmodic confessions and sentimentalities, had
laughed at her, even if in a good-tempered way
at which it was impossible to take offence.
She could not face Bella Fayre just now; she
could not own to anyone how she had been
deceived. There was no one to understand
her or to heed her. Her mother would talk
religion to her, and she seemed past all the
comfort that it could give to her mind; she
was as much afraid of the mother as of the rest
of them.

She turned back for the third time ; it was
almost dark night when she was within fifteen,
yards of the lake from which Aggie Chalhs had

saved her. Saved her for what? What washer
Hfe worth? — why shonkl she be indebted
for it to one who had so cruelly deceived her,
and when every chance of peace was gone forever
?

It is doubtful whether her courage or despair
would have carried her to the end of the project
which she suddenly conceived, and which took
her with rapid steps towards the lake, but there
was enough of decision and of desperation in
her actions and gestures to alarm one who was
coming at a smart pace across the darkening
fields. The traveller saw the sheet of water
lying sullen and half-frozen under the leafless
trees, and the woman running towards it with
outstretched hands. Here was surely danger
which it might be possible to avert. He called
to the figure, which ran the faster at the sound
of his voice, and, failing to arrest its progress,
he set forth in pursuit. He was a man very
swift of foot, and, despite the advantage which
Estelle had of him, he caught up to her on the
brink of the lake, put his arms quickly round
her, and set her adroitly beyond the temptation

VOL. III. Q

of death, standing between it and her, and
looking at her very intently through the night
shadows, Which were thick about them.

Why do you interfere with me ? why do
you stop me V Estelle cried, indignantly.

My poor woman, is it so great a trouble that
you would end it in that awful fashion?' he
inquired ; ' have you been brought up no better
than this?'

Estelle turned from him. She was ashamed
of the impulse which had taken her to. the
water' s-edge — ashamed of herself and of this
man's reproof, terribly afraid even of his recognising
her, as his voice grew familiar to her,
although she could not tell yet who he was,
or where she had met him.

The new-comer was sharp-eyed, and quick
to discover her. As she moved away, he
kept step with her, looking hard into her
face.

It is Miss Dangerfield, I think — I am sure,'
he said, after a moment's further study of her
features.

Well — yes — it is Miss Dangerfield,' said Estelle,

almost defiantly ; ' and you will leave me.
please.'

Will you promise to go straight home V
Yes.'

I am going your way. I am one whom you
may possibly remember.'

No,' said Estelle, without looking at him.
My name is Overdown.'

Ah, — yes — I remember now. Daniel Over-down,
of Birmingham.'

The same.'

How strange ! How like a fate to meet
you !'

Fate !' he said, contemptuously ; ' is not that
the old cry of your grandmother?'

'Yes, she believed in fate, and with good
reason,' answered Estelle.

She walked on sullenly in the direction of
Overcome, with this man keeping guard, as it
were, over her ; keeping step with her, too, and
still with his persistent stare, half of amazement
and half of curiosity.

At any rate, I don't know what fate has todo
with our meeting this evening, Miss Danger



field,' he said, when they were some distance
from the lake ; * I call it good luck that brought
me to you at the nick of time

Did you think I was going to drown myself?'
she asked, with a short laugh.

It looked something like it.'

I should have stopped in time ; I am a great
coward,' said Estelle.

^ People are generally cowards who try to slip
out of life in that fashion replied Daniel Over-down
; * but why you should have had such an
idea puzzles me tremendously.'

Why puzzles you V

Because you are young, rich, and have many
friends.'

'I haven't a friend in the world,' cried
Estelle.

There's Aggie, to begin with. She speaks
of you as '

Don't tell me what she says,' cried Estelle,
turning on him fiercely ; ' don't mention her
name to me. I hate her !*

Eh?^ said Daniel, still more perplexed by an
outbui-st which Estelle had found impossible to

restrain ; ' has there been a quarrel between you
two — of all women?'

There has been no quarrel between us.'

Pray explain,' he said, fretfully ; * I am a
bad hand at riddles.'

It is not for me to explain,' she said, more
loftily, and more after the fashion of her mother.

Pardon me, but I think it is,' replied Daniel
Over down, with great gravity ; ' you speak disparagingly
of one who is very dear to me, and
one whom I cannot allow to be traduced even
by a word. Miss Dangerfield, you know in
what relation I stand to Agnes Challis V

Poor fellow — yes,' she murmured in reply.

'What the deuce have you got to pity me
for?' he blurted forth, unceremoniously.

Ask Agnes ; tell her what I have said,' cried
Estelle, with increasing passion. ' Find out your
own troubles, for I have enough of my own to
bear, heaven knows.'

Heaven knows you are an awfully excitable
young woman. 1 cannot in my conscience go
away until I leave you in safe hands,* said Ban
Over down.

I am safe enough,' answered Estelle.

'Yon talk as if something serious had happened
to shake you' faith in one of the best
girls in the world,' Dan continued, thoughtfully;
but then you talk a heap of nonsense. My
confidence is not likely to fail at the same time
as yours.'

It is likely,' cried Estelle. ' You are deceived,
as I have been ; but you are a strong man, and
will not give way like me.'

Well, no ; I shall not give way after your
fashion, whatever may be the news waiting at
Overcome,' answered Daniel Overdown. ' I
don't think the worst of news would make a
baby of me— quite. Floundering about helplessly
and raving of my Wrongs would not be
in my line at any period, I take it. Oh, no.'

He laughed at the idea of his giving way in
any fashion, and Estelle did not admire his self-complacency.
If he were strong enough to
bear the blow impending, why, so much the
better ; she knew little of him, and did not sympathise
with him in any degree. His confidence
in himself was built upon his faith in Aggie

Challis, of whom he would not think any
harm ; when he awoke to the truth, it might
be a different matter altogether, despite that
philosophy of which he was vain. At all events,
she would be no party to the deceit by which
he suffered with herself. The truth was best
for all of them now, and they were close upon
it.

They were nearing Overcome ; they could
see the lights from the windows shining out
into the night. Dam' el Overdo wn's quick ears,
too, caught the sound of voices approaching
them.

Some one is coming,' he said.

I do not hear anything,' answered Estelle.

Before they are close upon us — friends probably
in search of you — have you anything
more to say V asked Dan Overdo wn, earnestly.

No. It is not my place.'

You have charged the woman who is going
to be my wife, with want of faith both to
you and me. That is a grievous accusation.
Miss Dangerfield. Think once more, if it is not
likely to be founded upon error ?'

« Impossible,' was the quick reply.

She Avill answer for herself and convince
you how unjust you are,' said Dan Over-down.


'I have no questions to ask her,' cried
Estelle, indignantly. ' I hope that never in all
my life I shall speak to her again. I pray
that '

Hush, hush, girl, you are not yourself ; you
don't know what you are saying, and that's the
reason for all this, I suppose. Here they are ;
let me be peacemaker,' he said, kindly.

There were two or three servants, with
torches, approaching, and a step or two in
advance of them were the Honourable Mrs.
Dangerfield and Agnes Challis.

No, no, I will not face them,' said Estelle,
shrinking back.

She would have darted away, had he not
caught her by the wrist and held her very
tightly a prisoner.

We will see this to the end together, if you
please,' he murmured.

CHAPTER VII.

PHILOSOPHY AT A DISCOUNT.

Daniel OvERDOWNandhis charge waited for the
expedition which was setting forth in search of
Miss Dangerfield. There had been little time
lost after Agnes Chalhs had discovered that Estelle
had not reached Overcome; there had
been an uneasy feeling of danger oppressing
Agnes, and this had been quickly communicated
to the mother — a woman whose nerves had
given way of late days.

I don't think anything has happened,' A^'gie
had said, assuringly to Frances Dangerfield;
but I can't rest till I have found her. I will go
back again.'

1 Avill accompany you,' said the mother.

The servants had been mustered to join them,
and in the first field it was discovered that
there had been a great deal of premature fright
and unnecessary excitement, as amongst a parcel
of women there generally is , thought more
than one of the domestics who had been enlisted
into the service.

Estelle,' cried Agnes, and then she looked at
her companion, and gasped forth, 'Dan,' in her
new astonishment.

'Estelle, my dear child, where have you
been V exclaimed the mother, folding her to her
breast ; ' we were getting alarmed, and coming
search of you.'

I was not worth discovering,' was the apathetic
answer ; and the new-comers became
aware that there was something very wrong
with Estelle. There were no inquiries as to the
cause at that time ; the position was acknowledged
and the trouble tacitly accepted for the
nonce. The servants were dismissed, the
torches extinguished, and the three women and
one man walked back to Overcome, and did

not speak a word until they were in the 
looking at each other.

Daniel Overdown was the jBrst to break the
spell of a long silence.

There has been an odd sort of misunderstanding
between these young folk he explained to
the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield, * and a word or
two will set it right, and make us comfortable.
I don't know what it is — I can't guess what it
is, I won't try,' he added, decisively ; ' but if
Miss Dangerfield will speak out, as she has
spoken out to me, I'll back my existence
that Aggie gives her an answer that will satisfy
her. That will satisfy the four of us, all deeply
interested, and completely in the dark until
the light of truth puts suspicion to the blush
a bit.'

Suspicion,' murmured Aggie.

Ay ; it's a nasty word, girl. But Miss Dan-garfield
has been so much in earnest, that I
have been angry with her in your defence, perhaps
have been too harsh, considering she is not
herself to-day,' said he.

I have nothing to say,' cried Estelle, defiantly

; ' 1 do not wish for any explanation. There
is nothing can explain away the duplicity of
that woman and — and Hamilton.'

Hamilton !' exclaimed the Honourable ]airs.
Dangerfield.

Oh, take me away from this house, and from
her. Come with me to my room, mamma, pray
come !' Estelle pleaded.

Yes, she had better come with me,' said the
mother. 'Presently we can talk of this more
calmly.'

I would deny this charge at once, Aggie,'
suggested Dan Overdown, ' before they go
away, for your own sake and mine.'

'I have deceived no one,' Aggie said, thus
appealed to, ' nor sought to deceive. I ■\\dshed
to help one who had been kind to me in old
days, and he refused my help.'

Hamilton Redclove V said Dan.

Yes.'

Whom you love !' cried Estelle ; ' who took
you in his arms, and kissed you; I saw you
both, I tell you. There !'

It was the parting shot of a rival terribly

jealous, and it did not fail in its effect. Agnes
Challis turned very white, and attempted no
further defence — uttered not a single word of
protest or denial. Her explanation was not for
the Danger-fields in that moment, but for the
strong man who had dropped into the chair by
the fireside, and covered his face with his scarred
hands. Mother and daughter went out of the
room, and left them together.

This was the ordeal that Agnes had feared
and foreseen, but had not gathered strength to
encounter. She approached him very timidly,
and drew his hands down from his face ; she
bent over him with eyes glistening with tears.

You will forgive me, Dan,' she murmured.

Is it all true, then V he asked, wonderingly
and without raising his eyes to her.

Is what all true V she asked like a woman
anxious to gain time.

That he kissed you — that fellow V Dan said,
hoarsely.

Yes,' she faltered forth. * He was going
away for ever ; he was grateful for all I wished
to do to help him ; it was in a moment of

excitement, of forgetfulness, if yon will. I
have been to blame, Dan.'

Yon own it !' he exclaimed.

Bnt he was going away for good,' she said,
as if in extenuation again ; ' and I was unnerved
and off my guard.'

Damn him !' ejaculated Daniel Overdown.

No, no ; don't say that,' cried Aggie.

I say, damn him,' Daniel Overdown said
again, vindictively. ' Would you have me go
down on my knees, and pray God for his safety,
just as you will do to-night V

'Oh! why should I not r

You love him,' he cried, with his clenched
hand falling heavily on the arm of the chair in
which he sat; 'why don't you say so, and
finish me !'

No one has a right to ask me such a question,'
cried Aggie.

I have.'

'No!'

He has asked you himself ; is that it T

He has not done so.'

He has told you he loves you?' cried Dan,

pouring in question after question in his jealous

No, Dan, he has not ; really !'

He has shown you he loves you — you know
he has. My God! haven't you deceived me
enough, without attempting to blind me to the
truth?' he exclaimed.

'I cannot tell you what the truth is,' she
wailed forth. ' Oh, Dan, dear Dan, don't be
hard upon me. I am like a woman in a dream.'

I am like a dazed fool Awaking out of one,'
he groaned ; ' and there is only one thing plain
to me.'

What is that V she asked, timidly.

That you never cared for me ; that there
never was a scrap of honest love for me in your
heart,' he answered.

I have always looked up to you, Dan, and
loved you very much '

He started, and turned towards her for an
instant ; then he looked away from her as she
continued —

But it was a love I did not understand, and
that, I knew, was not like your own. I said so

I told yon so on the day yon asked me to
become your wife. Don't yon recollect V

Yes ; I recollect very well,' he muttered.

I asked for time, yon know,' she said, very
gently and soothingly ; for this man's agony
of disappointment was something terrible to
witness ; ' for I trusted in time strengthening
that affection which I always had for yon, and
I thought that it would be in my power to
make your life a happy one. It was the task
I set myself at any sacrifice.'

Ay, at any sacrifice,' he echoed, bitterly.

I would have died to spare you this pain,'
she said, with her arm round his neck caressingly
; * to keep that good opinion of me which
you had, and which I have so completely lost.
I am not intentionally ungrateful, Dan ; if I
have deceived you, I have deceived myself no
less. Forgive me, if you can.'

It is not easy to forgive a blow which strikes
down every hope a man had,' he answered,,
moodily.

Other hopes will come — other '

Don't console me,' he exclaimed, fiercely ;

don't tell me what is in store for a fellow cast
down as low as I am.'

Very well,' said Aggie, meekly.

Are you prepared to keep yom' word — to
marry me V

Can yon wish it now V she said, in a low
tone of astonishment, of hoiTor.

'I ask for the fulfilment of your promise —
why not T he said, sternly. * You profess to
be grateful for all I have done for you — well
I tax that gratitude, instead of the love you
pretended to have for me. I can't live without
you.'

She walked slowly from him, and stood at a
little distance away, regarding him nervously.

You must not call on me to lead you to his
arms,' he continued ; ' I am not the hero of a
play-book, to give up my chances for the other
man — I think of myself first in this.'

That is not like you, Dan,' she murmured.

'If you choose to say to me, "I break my
word and break your heart as well," why, say
it !' he cried ; ' it is only a woman's word, and
not worth much.'

VOL. III. R

Oh ! Dan.'

Your friends will say, too, " How wise the
woman was to drop her old acquaintance, when
the riches came that set her above him !" '

Dan, can you think it was the money V she
cried, with fresh excitement.

Yes.'

Oh ! cruel.'

I can think anything of you,' he answered,
and it was the bitterest answer of all.

It held her speech-bound for a while, then
she gave way, and spoke out, With flashing
eyes and heaving breast.

I will keep my word — I loll marry you,' she
cried ; ' all that I promised I will perform, for
your sake and your happiness, if it can come
after this awful night of explanation. You
must not talk like this or think like this of me.

You SHALL NOT DO IT !'

You mean it V he cried, eagerly.

Yes.'

When will you marry me, and end these
accursed doubts V he asked, eagerly.
'At once.'

Next week V

Yes, next week, if yon will,' she answered,
wearily.

It is a bargain,' he said ; 'it is the one hope
.left me, after all, and I hold yon to it.'

I will not break away from anything I have
promised yon,' she replied, very firmly.

Thank you,' he said ; then he rose from his
chair, took her hands, and kissed her on the
forehead, she standing still and passive and
rigid beneath his strange caress.

I have been very rough with yon, Aggie,'
he said, hoarsely; 'bnt I am a rough fellow
when I don't have it my own way. Yon have
seen the worst of me to-night, bnt I did not
think yon cared for me at all. I will go now.
Good-night.'

Good-night.'

I shall see yon tomorrow V

Yes — tomorrow.'

He went from the house forthwith, letting
himself out of the great doors into the broad
carriage drive beyond. Under the dark trees
of the avenue, he came to a full stop, as though

ra

new tboiiglit, a new impulse, had come to
him also. Then he Avent on again, with his
head bent very low. She would keep her
word and many him, and he should get the
better of his rival, as he deserved to do, but
he was not happy yet with the consciousness of
victory. His sober common-sense, he thought,
had triumphed over a sickly sentimentality that
would have ousted him from his prize, but in
the hour of his success his heart was heavy
enough.

CHAPTER VIII.

AFTER THE VICTORY.

Daniel Overdown proceeded to the inn at
Overcome, where he expected to find Samuel
Chalhs, and astonish him not a httie with the
news that he was going to marry his sister
next week. But there was no one to astonish
at the inn; Sam had not returned, and Dan
Overdown was left to his own company, which
was not pleasant company, on that particular
evening.

Left to himself, he began to think he had
been in an unnecessary hung to quit Overcome
Park — that it would have been a cleverer move
on his part to remain, and console Aggie, and

cheer her up to the best of his ability, now that
matters had been finally settled between them.
It began to impress his mind forcibly and uncomfortably,
too, that he had almost extorted
from her a promise to marry him — that he had
taunted and driven her to it — and then had
loft her without any attempt at consolation. He
almost made up his mind to return; he had
seized his hat even, and thrust it over his brows,
Avhen the second thought came to him that it
would be better to leave well alone. He had
triumphed in his argument ; he had subdued the
girl whom he loved, and whose life he was sure
would be happy with him presently, and it
would be wiser to stay where he was than to resume
a topic with her that was essentially
dangerous. A few words might turn Rectory
into defeat, after all ; for he vas dissatisfied with
his triumph, and the ugly black fact remained to
confound him that Aggie loved another man
better than him. She had not owned it ; she
had, nth all a woman's adroitness, darted away
from the question, but the grim truth remained
that she had not expected he would hold her to

her word, and that she would have been glad if
he had said, ' We will talk no more of marriage
between its — it is a mockery of affection and
confidence, and there's an end of it.'

If it had not been for this Hamilton Redclove
turning up again in AVarwickshire, what a different
state of things ! — what a life without a doubt
from beginning to end ! — what happiness with
the one dear woman who had thought so much
of him, and been so grateful for past kindness.

It was all that man ! He had made love to
Aggie, and stolen her heart away. He was
younger, handsomer, a man of education, ostensibly
a gentleman, and the Birmingham gimsmith
did not show well in contrast with him, nay,
went back into the shadow of his streets as the
other advanced into the foreground. He should
kill that man yet, Daniel Overdown thought, ashe
struck his clenched fist on the table — here
was a world of women for a lord's nephew to
chose from, and he must try to snatch this one
poor girl away from him.

Mr. Overdown,' said a voice at his side, and
the thinker looked up in his surprise at the man

who had entered the room without disturbing
the reverie into which he had fallen.

It was the rival whose presence in Warwickshire
had worked such utter mischief.

You here !' he ejaculated.

You here in Overcome again !' said Hamilton,
steadily regarding him ; ' I thought you
were in Birmingham.'

No, I have come back, and just in time, too !'
was the half sullen, half fierce reply.

'In time to bid our friend good-bye, Dan
said a third voice, opportunely, and Sam Challis
came into the room, and made one more at this
juncture.

Ah ! now he has done all the mischief he can,'
said Dan, unceremoniously, ' he will go away
and laugh at us. It is the fashion of fine gentlemen
like him.'

Daniel Overdown did not attempt to disguise
the state of his feelings. He was a bad hand at
disguise ; all his life he had had a habit of speaking
out ' downright,' and it was too late in the
day to affect a different fashion.

What have I done to make you my enemy T

asked Hamilton, calmly, as he sat down
facing Overdown, with the table's width between
them.

You know.'

I don't know,' was the reply. ' I have
fancied till to-day that I had been your
friend.'

'It's a friendship I don't care to hear
about,' said Dan, roughly, ' or to thank you
for.'

Very well. As you please,' said Hamilton,
more coolly.

I would only thank you, and advise you to
go,' Dan said, meaningly ; ' just as you hinted
that my company was hateful to you when we
met in the inn parlour down at Grayling. Then
you understood me better than I did you, and
had the pull of me in consequence Now I read
you like a book.'

1 am a book easily read,' said Hamilton, sadly
; ' you can tell him everything, Sam, when I
have got away from this place.'

I know everything — I don't want Sam's version
of the story,' cried Dan Overdown.

«

*What do you know?' asked Hamilton,
sharply.

That yon love Aggie Chalks — my girl ! — the
woman who has promised to hoe my wife,' roared
Dan Overdown ; ' yon don't deny that to my
face, I suppose?'

Hamilton turned pale, but his dark eyes
gathered fire and defiance. After all, this was
the rival who had supplanted him, and won
Aff^ie from him — a man whom he must hate.

No,' he said, glaring back at his questioner ;
I own it to your face. I love her — yes, a hundred
times better than you do !'

You dare to say it, then V shouted Dan
Overdown, philosopher, universal counsellor,
humanitarian, and Christian no longer — only a
poor fellow driven to fury by the words of this
man confronting him, who had stolen Aggie's
love from him, and left him a few shreds of her
gratitude in its place.

'Why should I be afraid to own it?' raved
Hamilton Kedclove in his turn ; ' what are you
to me but a selfish hound, who would drag her
to your level V

You have told me this before,' cried Dan.
I tell it you again. It's the truth, which
can't be hidden, and which shan't be. And I
tell you once more, Dan Overdown,' he said,
between his set teeth, ' that I love her awfully,
that I hate you for being in my way, that she
is everything in the world to me, and will be to
the end of my life.'

Damnation I'

There was a sudden plunge across the table
at the man beyond it on the other side, a cry
from Sam, a mad clutch of two excited men at
each other's throats, the overturning of the table
with a noisy crash, the lights going out and
leaving all in darkness, with high voices and
hard blows resounding through it, a heavy fall,
and then a sudden awful stillness following.

It was all over in a minute, and the bursting
open of the door by the excited landlord followed
the conflict.

'What's the matter? what's the row? Good
God ! there's blood there on the floor !'

The light from the inner bar streamed through
the open door into the room, and showed Hamilton

Redclove lying on the hearth-rug, still as
death, with Daniel glaring down at him.

Sam stooped and put his hand upon the heart
of the prostrate man. He looked up very
quickly.

Dan,' he said, ' you have killed him !'

CHAPTER IX.

IN DANGER.

Daniel Overdown came back to his senses,
which a mad jealousy had stolen from him. He
looked with horror from Sam Challis to the still
form before which Sam was kneeling, and then
said, in a low, stifled voice,

Not so bad as that, for God's sake, Sam !'

He don't breathe — I can't feel his heart
beat,' replied Sam.

This is a pretty state of things,' cried the
aggrieved landlord, 'to have a murder in the
house bang down on us, all of a sudden, in this
silken way !'

Bring lights, and hold your row !' cried Sam
nunc ceremoniously .

He calls it nimble,' gasped forth Dan Over-down
; ' what can it mean — what will Aggie
say — oh, what will she say ? Doesn't he move
at all V

No,' came back the dismal answer.

Lights were brought into the room, and the
servants of the house came with them, and
formed a crowd of white-faced, eager-eyed men
and women.

Some one run for a doctor,' said Sam ; ' is
there one in Overcome?'

There's one at Grayling.'

Saddle a horse and go for assistance. Dan,'
he said, in a low voice, and Dan leaned over
him to hear what he had to whisper confidentially.


'Weir he asked.

You must cut, old friend ; you must get away
from here.'

I am not used to running away,' answered
the gunsmith, sturdily ; ' if I've killed him, I'll
wait for my arrest.'

I fancy he breathes — faintly — but I would
get away if I were you,' muttered Sam.

It will spare my sister.'

No — I can't bolt,' said Dan, returning to his
chair ; ' I will wait for the police — I wonlcl
rather be hanged, if they want to hang me.
It's all my fault; bnt how has he come to
look like that, and be as low as that, already?'


'You fell with him — he has crushed in his
skull against the iron fender.'

It is his death-blows said Dan OverdoAvn,
with a groan.

Ay — it looks like it,' responded the landlord,
bending down to peer into the face of the senseless
man lying on the hearth-rug ; ' I mind the
fall of young Collins at the hunt, six years ago
pitched clean off by the bridge yonder, and
brought in here with his neck broke — you know,
some o' ye ? Well, he looked like that — hard
and cold — exact.'

Daniel Overdown shuddered, and turned faint,
for the first time in his life.

*Can I do anything, Sam?' he asked.

No. Don't worry me. I understand this a

little — I have seen some ugly knocks abroad
before to-day.'

Which of yon two did it ? — and how did you
do it V asked the landlord, who was growing-more
curious.

We will let you know presently,' said Sam.

No ; you had better know at once. I did it,'
said Dan Overdown.

He got up from his chair, and walked unsteadily
from the room into the dark front road
outside the house. The cool, frosty air revived
him somewhat, whilst he paced to and fro bareheaded.
He crossed the road, after a while, to
the bridge where young Collins, according to
the landlord's story, had been thrown, and met
death when he was as full of life and youth as
Hamilton Redclove. The river was gurgling
through the one arch which spanned it ; the
frost had given way of late days, and the ice
was breaking up and floating with the cm-rent ;
he had looked at it that afternoon ^^dth very
peaceful thoughts, and moralised concerning it.
He had been prone to moralise all his life — for
he had been over-wise and over-confident, with

a high opinion of that wisdom and confidence
born of the respect which men of his class had
had for him. What was he, after all, but a
noisy, blatant, quarrelsome mechanic, with tiger's
blood in him when roused to madness by a few
words, or an extra glass of drink. He had
drunk hard by himself in that parlour, and all
the good in him — God knows, he had tried to
be good, and honourable, and fair-dealing ! —had
been crushed out of him by brandy. He had
talked against drink hundreds of times before
to-day — he had made converts, too — he had always
counselled moderation in everything to
his disciples, and no violent extremes. He had
preached of patience and long-suffering — he had
kept in check his fellow-men by his example
and tact — and this was the end of it all. He
had thought himself above his order until this
night — now what would they say of him ? What
would Aggie Challis think ? Poor Aggie !— poor
unlucky girl, on whom the sunshine never fell,
and whom he load so much.

There was the noise of carriage-wheels advancing
— coming on to the bridge where he

VOL. III. S

stood. It was a narrow bridge, and the coachman
reined in his horses, and came over at a
walking pace. Could this be the doctor abbacy
from Grayhng — was there a road from Praying
in this direction as well as from Overcome
Park?

Is the doctor inside there V Dan cried, and
the coachman stopped at his gestures, not understanding
him.

What do you say V

The doctor — do you bring him with you?'

The carriage window was lowered hastily,
and an anxious face looked out — it was the
Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield's.

Mr. Over down — you ! What has happened V
she inquired.

Who is with you — in here ?' he called out,
sharply, as his keen eyes detected a second
figure cowering in a corner of the carriage, ' not
Aggie !'

'It is my daughter. We are going on to
UpenhamTJunction — where the mail from London
stops at midnight.'

Going away — leaving her'' muttered Dan.

My daughter will not remain at overcome,

and I am accompanying her to town. I But

what has happened ? Why are you waiting for
the doctor 1 It is — oh, it is not anything that
concerns us — not any more misery in this
dreadful place ! It cannot be !'

Daniel Overdown did not reply immediately
he knew not what to say to spare these two
women the shock of the announcement.

You must not think it is anything .very
serious,' he began, slowly, ' but Mr. Ked-clove
'

Hamilton !' shrieked Estelle from the carriage,
*ah! you two have quarrelled — there is something
dreadful at the inn. Mother, look at the
people in the room, there — oh, let me out ; let
me out !'

She opened the carriage-door herself, and
sprang into the roadway. Dan Overdown — for
the second time that night — intercepted her
.again, and held her back nth his strong hands.

'You must be careful, Miss Dangerficld, or
you will kill him with your excitement.'

He is in danger, then V

S 2

Yes — he is in danger.'

Through your

Yes,' he groaned, ' through me !'

Estelle waited for her mother to aught, and
passed to her side with her hands linked upon
her arm.

It only wanted this,' he murmured, as they
went slowly towards the inn, with Daniel Over-down
following.

CHAPTER X.

RAMBLING.

Hamilton Redcloye did not come back readily
to consciousness. Even in his stupor he was
obstinate, and lay for hours like the dead man
which Sam Challis thought he was at first sight.
The doctor came from Grayling when that
worthy's arrival, to anxious hearts, seemed
past all praying for. He pronounced upon the
case, shook his head ominously, recommended
great care, freedom from excitement, unremitting
attention, and one or two extra impossibilities,
ordered him to bed, and left his
assistant to take care of him till the morning.
He saw that Hamilton was conscious before

he departed — conscious, that was, of Hfe about
hmi, of noises in his ears, of bells and braying
music, and a roaring as of the sea at his brain ;
but not conscious of the faces that bent over
him, and looked into his, and tried hard to
smile him into recognition of them. Only
once he spoke, and that was to Estelle,
who was looking tearfully through the chintz
curtains at him.

Aggie !' he cried ; and Estelle drew back
with a shiver, and went to the side of her
mother.

He calls her,' said Estelle Dangerfield ; ' he
is thinking of her even now !'

He is wandering,' replied the mother.

He is dying !' cried Estelle, giving way, and
sobbing passionately on the mother's breast.

'Hush! you must be silent dear, if you stop
here and help me. Hamilton's life is in your
hands.'

Oh ! if it were only in my power to save
him,' she exclaimed.

At any cost?' asked the mother, cm-piously.

Ah ! at any cost.'

AVe must send for Miss Challis ; it is our
duty,' said the Honourable Mrs. Dangerfield.

Very well,' responded Estelle ; * but will be
want to see her, do yon think?'

It is not unlikely, when he is conscious,'
replied Frances Dangerfield ; ' and she must beat
hand.'

If we could only get him back to overcome,'
said Estelle, 'and away from this
dreadful inn.'

That is impossible.'

In the early morning, he fell off into a
troubled sleep, Avhen all who loved him, or
cared for him, were in waiting downstairs, lest
a change should come for the better, or the
worse. Daniel Overdown did not intrude upon
the watchers; he shunned Agnes Challis and
the Dangerfields, and walked about the highroad
till the daylight. Sam found him, and
asked if he would not come into the inn.

Not yet. I shall be here, if they want me,
and — if he does.'

^ ' Aggie has been asking for you.'
He shuddered.

I cannot face her yet. Let me alone, please,'
was the fretful answer.

Later in the morning, there was a change in
the patient. The doctor had arrived, and it
seemed as if Hamilton had been waiting for
him, and gathering consciousness by degrees,
to ask about all these odd people who came
and looked at him, and vanished away in the
mist that floated over everything.

I'm better,' he said to the doctor, confidently.

'I am very glad to hear it answered the
doctor.

I feel pretty well now,' he continued, in a
very restless fashion ; ' I am clear and cool. I
know who you are — and Aggie. That is Aggie
Challis, is it not V

Yes,' said Aggie , advancing from the background.


She had taken her place in that room as
though it had been her right, and no one had
gainsaid her — as though she had been this
man's lover almost.

In this sore distress, the polite conventionalities
of respectable society had gone woefully

to the wall. There would be time for the
proprieties later on ; but everybody seemed
impressed by the conviction that Aggie's rightful
place was at his side to take her share
of watching and consoling him.

I am glad you are here, Aggie,' he said, with
a grateful little sigh. ' I thought they would
try to keep you away.'

Oh ! no,' was the answer.

I want to see your husband — at once.'
'My husband!'

He stared at her rather wildly, and the
doctor looked across at her not to contradict
him.

He Avill come presently,' she said, with ready
tact. ' You are to rest now — to sleep.'

I can't rest till I see him. And I might die
in my sleep.'

Of whom is he speaking V whispered the
doctor.

Of Daniel Overdown, I think.'

Put off the interview, if you can. Postpone
it.'

But the patient was terribly obstinate in his

state of semi-consciousness, and grew excited
with opposition.

He must see him,' said the doctor.

Thank you, thank you replied Hamilton,
making an effort to shake hands with the doctor,
and unresisting when the doctor put his hand
on his to quiet him ; ' you understand me better
than all these dull people,' he added, most
ungratefully.

When Daniel Overdown came, with slow
steps, into the room, Hamilton regarded him
with his new, half vacant expression.

Is it you?' he inquired, doubtfully.

Yes, it is I.'

The man — who lives at Birmingham ? I forget
the name.'

Overdown.'

Overgrown — my uncle always called you —
and it's a deuced queer name,' said Hamilton,
hazarding a faint, unnatural laugh.

What is it you want V asked Dan ; ' to
hear me say how bitterly I regret all that
has '

Not that. I wanted to see you — yes. I remember
now. I wanted to say before I died
that this was not yom fault. He could not help
it, sir,' turning to the doctor as to a judge who
might convict Dan presently. ' I taunted him
I scoffed at him and his position ; I (five him
mad, for I was very mad myself. Where's
Aggie?'

I am here still,' she said.

I thought you had gone,' he answered, ' and
you must not leave me yet, if Dan don't mind.
You will marry Dan all the same,' he said, forgetting
that he had just spoken of her as the
gunsmith's wife. '1 should be sorry to go
away thinking I had parted you in anyway.
It Alas all my fault — and nobody to
blame.'

AVill you try to rest V

Yes, I'll try. Tell that stupid old Fayre to
keep his bells quiet, for my head aches.'

Very well. Now shut your eyes, and try to
rest.'

I will, if you wish it, Aggie.'

He closed his eyes like an obedient child at
her request, and in a few minutes was asleep.
Aggie Challis remained at the head of the bed,
Daniel Overdown withdrew, the Honourable
Mrs. Dangerfield and Estelle followed the doctor
to the room adjoining.

He is getting well,' said Frances, eagerly ;
he will come round, sir?'

I must have further advice,' answered the
doctor, thoughtfully ; ' he is in a most critical
condition.'

Not getting better !' murmured Estelle ; ' and
this is all my doing. It began from me. I have
skilled him !'

She is his cousin, sir,' said Frances to the
doctor, who was regarding Estelle With great
surprise : ' you know how excited she is ? You
attended her at Grayling.'

Of course — of course.'

*And he will recover — in time — you think?'
asked Frances, anxious to commit the doctor
to a fixed opinion before he went away — a
ruse which it is the great effort in life of a
doctor to dodge.

I hope so, but he is in a very critical condition,'
repel the medical attendant.

That means he will die,' said Estelle, after
the doctor had gone.

CHAPTER XL

THE COUSINS.

The prophecy of Estelle Dangerfield seemed
coming true next day, when Hamilton was
battling with a higher fever, and kncAV not one
of his friends. The ' fm-ther advice ' had come
in its carriage-and-pair, shaken its head over the
patient, pronounced against him, unless there was
a wondrous change within the next e!ght-and-
forty hours, pocketed its fee, and departed. And
for the next eight-and-forty hours three women
and two men waited with a grave anxiety, and
Lord Redclove sent a telegram with kind
inquiries, and regrets that the gout had got into
his knees, and put a stop to his locomotion for
the present.

The change came in the two days — whether
for the better it was difficult to determine, until
the doctor came, and his opinion was still fenced
round scrupulously by the possibilities and contingencies
that might arise. The fever had
quitted Hamilton, but it had taken all his
strength with it, and left him like a little child ;
consciousness had returned, but with it an
anxiety about his case which kept him very
restless. Was he going to die '? would the
doctor tell him plainly if he were going to die
or not ? He only wanted certainty to be calm
enough, he said, but the assurance of a fact,
in one way .or another, he must and would
have.

They were alone together when Hamilton
presse J the question, and the doctor said at last,

I don't say you may not recover, Mr. Red-clove,
or that you are without one chance in
your favour, but '

He paused, and regarded his patient ver'
deliberately. Hamilton did not shrink, or change
colour, or look aghast at him. It was a bolder
look at the world beyond this one than the

doctor had seen in many men lying so weak
as he.

But,' he continued, ' I would ask you to be
prepared.'

I think I am prepared,' answered Hamilton ;
I have done no man or woman any harm in
my life, thank God, and I am not afraid to go.'

That's well,' said the doctor. ' Mr. Fayre
desired me to tell you '

Yes, I will see him presently. I have others
to see first.'

'Indeed!'

Quite a deputation,' he added, Sith a faint
smile, ' for I have something on my mind.'

You will not distress yourself?'

Does it matter V

The doctor did not reply until Hamilton
repeated the question.

Of course, anything of importance it would
be right to communicate,' he said at last ; ' but
pray be calm ^yiih. it, and keep others calm.'

You may rely upon me.'

As the doctor was retiring, Hamilton called
him back again.

When I was very ill — in the beginning — I
think 1 remember asking to see Dan Overclown.
Is that correct V

Yes.'

That's a man I wish to see again.'

He will excite yon — he '

No, he will not,' said Hamilton ; * I am past
all excitement. I have not the steam in me.'

He tried hard to smile, and succeeded.

I only wish to impress upon yon the one
fact that this was quite an accident. A little
rough play, a scuffle, and a fall,' said Hamilton.
Never mind what that foolish gunsmith chooses
to call it in his grief — he never meant to hurt
me.'

I don't think he did,' replied the doctor.
Good-morning ; I shall come over in the evening
to see how you are again.'

Oh, then, you give me till the evening V
said Hamilton, shrewdly.

Yes — certainly.'

That is more time than I thought I should
have,' ho said ; * but may I begin at once ? I
should prefer it.'

VOL. III. T

The doctor returned to the bedside and felt
his pulse.

Wait an hour,' was the reply ; ' you have
been talking too much.'

That's a fault I shall speedily atone for,' he
said, in his old satirical way, and the doctor
departed, thinking that Hamilton Redclove was
a very singular young man.

Hamilton waited an hour patiently ; then he
sent for his cousins Frances and Estelle, who
came in with anxious, Wondering faces, on
which were the marks of a grief impossible
to hide. He regarded them attentively, almost
critically, until they were standing by his bedside,
looking down upon him.

I haven't asked you two to come up here to
receive my last dying speech and confession,'
he said, with a lightness which jarred upon
them terribly, ' so you must not depress me by
your woful countenances just yet. Can you
hear what I am saying V

Yes,' replied Frances.

At three yards distant V

No.'

It is hard to be reduced to a whisper when
one wants to short ont, harder still to find one's
shortness of breath in the way of a long talk —
bnt, Estelle dear.'

Estelle leaned towards him quickly.

I have a few words to say to your mamma
which yon must not hear ; weill yon look ont of
that window for three minutes V

Shall I go away, cousin V

No ; I want yon in sight. And, Estelle '

• Yes,' said Estelle, returning his long, earnest
gaze at her.

Are you friends with Aggie Challis?'

• Yes.'

Keep so — pray keep so, for an old cousin's
sake ! For she is the one good woman I know.'

Estelle turned away to hide her tears, and
went to the Window, as suggested. Hamilton
made a sign for Frances Dangerfield to put her
head close to his pillow.

I should like to think that all the mysteries
are at an end before 1 go, Frances,' he said.
Are you afraid of the truth still V

What truth V she whispered back.

t2

Of the relationship between Agnes and
Estella

I have not told her,' mm-cured his cousin.

Tell her before your OAvn time comes,.
Frances,' were his warning words, * for it maybe
soon.'

I have thought of this of late days, Hamilton,'
replied Frances, in a lower tone — 'of Estelle
witling me in the world, and of a sister's
love that might be hers to comfort her and
keep her strong. I will tell her, if you
wish.'

Thank yon. I wish it.'

My pride has sunk away in all this trouble.
It is for the best, I think, now.'

Will yon tell x^gnes Challis and Estelle the
whole truth V was Hamilton's next inquiry.

Frances looked at him doubtfully — nervously.

What do you mean, Hamilton V she said ;
I — I hardly — comprehend.'

You have lately grown frightened of the
truth, you know. You were a better woman —
a more honourable woman — when I knew you
first. Poor Frances !'

She slindderecl, but she uttered not one protest
against his verdict.

'And yon have been less happy lately,' he
continued — ^ is not that true V

Yes,' she confessed ; ' heaven knows I have !'

I should be glad if you would trust Aggie
Challis and her brother — they are not hardhearted
or unjust, and they have not been
treated well.'

What shall I tell them V asked Mrs. Danger-field,
as white now as the man whom she addressed
— ' what you wish I will do.'

Tell them of the papers you found in your
husband's safe, and destroyed in the study at
Overcome Park,' he whispered ; ' assure them
of their birthright.'

She covered her face with her hands, hiding
herself away from his dark eyes.

You knew it, then ! — you knew it !' she
exclaimed.

I was in the park that night you went to
the room ; I climbed the ivy to see who was in
the study, and where the blind was torn aside I
peered in and saw yoiiF

And yet-and

yet I was silent — for the family credit
I suppose,' he said, mockingly ; ' but I had
thought that with the restitution of the money
the secret might remain, for your sake and Estelle's,
until the shame of it, and the sin of it,
have come close to me lying here. Now — all
the truth — for honour's sake, and heaven's.'

What will they say — and do?' she asked.

Trust them both.'

I will do this she replied, more boldly.
God knows, Hamilton, it has been an a^u^ul
weight upon my conscience, and I have grown
grey struggling to bear it. And — those papers
I have not destroyed them. I was not wicked
enough for that — even at my worst.'

I am glad to hear it,' he said ; ' and now,
God bless you, cousin, and bring you peace of
mind — as He will !'

Ah !' she answered, * as He only can.'

CHAPTER XII.

THE LAST OF IT.

Hamilton Eedclove had borne well the ordeal
of the interview between him and his cousins,
but it taxed the little strength that was left in
him.

I must take care, Frances,' he said to the
widow ; ' I must wait a little while before I seethe
others. It's some hours till night still.'

What then V asked Frances.

Daniel Overdown and — Aggie. I am very-anxious
— about them.'

'WhjV

He did not answer. He closed his eyes, as if
to intimate that the subject was ended, and
Frances did not seek to tire him with her questions.
She and her daughter stole from the

room, and left him to his rest, and it was not
till the afternoon that he was again busy with
his inquiries. They were all for Agnes Chalhs
and Daniel Overdown — he wished to see them
at once — and he betrayed suddenly a nervous
haste that to those who listened to him seemed
ominous.

Aggie and her betrothed were standing by
his bed presently with the door shut on them.
He motioned to Agnes to stand more closely by
the bedside, with the dark, rugged face of Dan
Overdown near her.

He looked at Aggie almost cheerfully, as he
said,

You two have been told, I daresay, that I
am not likely to last the day ouf?'

They did not answer save that their silence
was an answer to him.

That clears away the ground, you see,' lie
whispered, in the same light tone, ' and saves
explanation. Well, Aggie,' turning to her,
I wish you to understand, as I have tried to
make the rest of them, that it was all my fault,
and none of this good fellow's doing. I did my

best — or worst — to madden him, and I succeeded.'


I take the blame upon myself,' muttered Dan.
I will have no excuse for me. I accept the
consequences.'

Consequences of a mere accident, you silly
fellow,' said Hamilton, ' there, shake hands with
me.'

Dan put his rough hand in the sick man's.

'Is this forgiveness?' Dan Overdown asked,
hoarsely.

I have nothing to forgive, man.'

Yes, you have,' said Dan, ' for I tried to kill
you.'

With an old-fashioned iron fender. What an
instrument of malice !' he replied, and with his
strange satire evident once more.

Well, forgiveness then. You must not mind,
Aggie,' Hamilton added, turning to her again,
*■ what he says in his despair. That is a good
fellow, to be thought of, and to be loved,
always.'

But,' began Dan, when a look of Hamilton's
checked him.

Let me go on, Dan,' entreated the sick man,
let me have it all my own way now. Just for
once ! You are looking very grave, Aggie !' he
said.

Don't mind me, oh, don't mind me,' Aggie
Challis pleaded.

Lying here, I have had a dread that you two
might separate, or misunderstand each other for
all time to come, without a word or two of mine
before I went away,^ he continued, ' and you
must not do that.'

'We understand each other, Mr. Redclove,'
said Agnes, ' pray leave the rest to us, and think
no more of him or me.'

You have not quarrelled T was his anxious
question.
'No.'

Do you love him less than you did V he asked,
curiously.

No,' said Agnes, frankly ; and ' Heaven
bless you, girl,' Daniel OverdoT^oi bm'st forthwith.


You will not mind, then— and I am sure Dan
will not mind— my telling you how much I

loved yoii, — bow I strove to keep it down and
hide it away for my poor pride's sake, seeing
with every day more clearly what a foolish
affection it was. 1 say this not to distress you,
Aggie, God forbid, and so don't give way and
tremble so, bnt I offer it as the excuse for the
quarrel I had with Dan last week. It was not
malice or bad temper, only a passion that had
despaired of you, and was preying on itself. It
is your forgiveness I want badly,' he exclaimed.

I won't have thisbe cried Dan, ' she has nothing
to forgive you. There is no one to blame
but myself, and you are a mistaken man, I tell
you, sir.'

'I do not see what you mean,' Hamilton
manured, ' but my eyes are very misty now.'

Well, I mean she loves you,' said Dan, boldly,
and yet very sorrowfully, ' and I am NOT
the man she cared for.'

Aggie, is this true ? Can it be near the truth
in any way,' Hamilton asked, eagerly, ' don't, at
the last like this, be hard with me.'

She bent her head down till it touched his,
and whispered back.

It is all true, Hamilton I couldn't help it I I
tried to keep my word to Dan, to fancy you
never liked me, but '

Well, well,' Hamilton said, impatiently.

But,' she concluded, in a tone lower than his
own, ' I loved you very much.'

There was a long silence after this, which
Hamilton was the first to break.

I am very happy,' he murmured, ' I shall die
happily, too, but oh ! this poor fellow here with
life before him, I had forgotten him.'

Don't mind me, sir,' said Dan Overdo wn-with
hips that quivered a little as he spoke, ' I shan't
lose sight of her, or hope for her.'

She will want friends,' said Hamilton, in reply.

Not if you live, and then '

Not if I live !' echoed Hamilton, despairingly
at last.

Whilst there's life there's hope, and such a
l^ig lump of hope for you that's worth the trial,'
cried Dan.

Ah, yes,' said Hamilton, with a sigh.

And if you live there will be hope for me too
and no crime upon my conscience.'

hopes

'Somewhere abroad continiiecl Dan, thoughtfully,
* until I could come back one day, and find
you two together, and be strong enough to say,
God bless you both " with all my heart.'

This is a true man whispered Hamilton to
Aggie: 'will you not many him — presently?'

No, Hamilton, I cannot,' she replied ; ' he
knows I cannot. I will be his friend, sister,
child, but never his wife. Don't ask me,'

Very well,' said Hamilton, easily resigned to
this, at all events. ' Now, will you kiss me,
dear, before I try to sleep ? For you are mine,
till I go away for good, Aggie I'

She kissed him gently, and tried to smile back
at him through her tears, but it was a desperate
effort in that hour of trial. She might have
given way then — for she was very weak — had
not the doctor entered at this juncture.

Come, come,' he said, advancing, ' we must
not have too much of this. I must interfere
with my authority.'

He looked steadily at his patient, stooped,
and peered more closely at him, felt his pulse,

put his leach on bis chest, and Hastened to the
beating of his heart.

*Weir said Hamilton.

Well,' echoed the doctor, ' you are no worse.
Talking seems to agree with you, although we
will have no more of it to-day.'

No worse !' said Agnes.

Just a trifle better, I am disposed to think,'
he replied.

Then there is hope !' cried Agnes.

Agnes and the doctor were at the door then,
and the doctor said, with his old cautiousness
and his old catch-word,

He is in a very critical condition. He is not
out of danger, but I don't think — he is — entirely
without hope.'

'Not now!' said Daniel Overdown, who had
followed them.

And Hamilton was not, for hope came back
to him and his friends after some days further
battling with his wealoiess. Life at last seemed
brightening for him and Aggie Chalhs, as it
should do in real life at times, and for real
lovers ; leaving not all the happiness in the

world for the end of pleasant story-books.

This was later on, when Frances Dangerfield
had found courage to keep her word, and discovered
that the Challises were not hard to
her, when Estelle and Aggie knew that they
were sisters, and Estelle's jealousy seemed to
vanish strangely with the waking to the truth ;
when all were friends, and enemies were nowhere
; when Sam Chalhs, or Samuel Danger-field,
Esq., seemed disposed to settle down in
England, and make love to Bella Fayi'e ; and
when Daniel OverdoAvn stole away one day in
early spring, and was seen of no man for long
years.

That day followed some weeks after the confession
at the bedside. Hamilton was strong
then, and Walking, in the sunshine, on the
terrace of Overcome Park, with Aggie by his
side. He was not too weak to walk without
support, the doctor said ; so his arm Alas naturally
round the waist of the heiress. The two
were very happy, and very forgetful. They
had forgotten Daniel Overdown's existence,
until the gunsmith suddenly came up the steps

of the terrace, turned very white, and stopped
as if shot by one of his own rifles.

Dan cried Aggie, quickly, and with the red
wishes on her cheeks, ' will yon walk with ns a
little way V

We have something of great importance to
tell yon, old friend,' said Hamilton, looking into
Aggie's face, and laughing, almost hysterically,
at his own bliss — or at the promise of it which
he had gained that day from her affection.

Dan Overdown stared at them both, and then
smiled strangely.

Yes — I see,' he said, drily ; ' give me a little
time, though. I'll be back presently.'

He went down the broad terrace steps into
the green grass of the park, and on under the
trees into the shadows that vere there. When
they saw him again his beard was long and
grey, and there were half-a-dozen laughing-children
round the knees of the only woman
on whom he had ever set his heart.

THE END. >—

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, BLENHEIM HOUSE.
