"L I E> R.ARY

OF Thou
N I Verity
or Ill Noise

V. I

AND

OTHER TALES.

VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

THE TREASURE OF THORBURNS. By Frederick

Boyle, author of ' A Good Hater,' &c. 3 vols.

THE SON OF HIS FATHER. By Mrs. Oliphant,

author of ' It was a Lover and his Lass,' &c. 3 vols.

COULD HE DO BETTER? By Arthur A. Hoffman,

3 vols.

Catherine. By the author of ' Lauderdale.' 3 vols.
WEEPING FERRY. By George False. 2 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

AND

OTHER TALES

BY

F. W. ROBINSON

AUTHOR OF

grandmother's MONEY," " NO CHURCH,"
"THE COURTING OF MARY SMITH,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

III. The Prison Daisy 218

IV. Daisy is Deceived 232

V. The Infirmary Cell 244

VI. The Message from the Dead . . . 249

VII. Mistress and Maid 259

VIII. The Whole Truth 280

The Luck of Luke Shands :

L My Lady's Chapel 293

VOL. r.

CHAPTER I.

THE LODGERS AT BROADBROOK's.

Marsh Walk, in the heart of busy Lambeth,
was, at the time of which my story treats,
one of the most bustling, struggling, fighting
and tearing thoroughfares of the many crowded
highways of human life which are to be discovered
in South London. The Marsh Walk
was always busy ; it was a place in which no grass
grew under the feet of its inhabitants. It was a
squalid place altogether in its way, and they
were very poor, ' hand to mouth ' folk, who
thronged its streets, and haggled for prices at

b2

butchers' shops, and begged for credit * till next
Saturday night, sir, — oh ! only till next Saturday
!' — of the stern man behind the counter,
who was selling at the lowest prices the harshest
and most alum of bread, and striving hard himself
to live, and failing very often.

Marsh Walk was the highway of the ' poorest
poor' — and the shopkeepers were, as a rule,
very poor too, to match their customers. Names
were always changing over the shop-fronts in
Marsh Walk, and only the publicans and pawnbrokers
were * old established ' and waxed fat on
people's thirst or people's troubles.

One of the poorest shops in this neighbourhood
to which we direct our reader's attention was
Mr. Broadbrook's — and it was always a matter
of grave speculation how Mr. Broadbrook lived
and kept house and home together on ' easy
shaving at a half-penny ' and ' gents and ladies
hair cut at three-pence,' or, cut and curled for
the sum of fourpence, paid in advance, to save
unnecessary disputes, or the fatigue of opening
credit accounts.

But Mr. Broadbrook did live, and keep house

somehow, and supported, or endeavoured to
support, a grimy, and carroty-b aired Mrs.
Broadbrook and nine small Broadbrooks, all
grinder and more carroty than their mother, and
whose hair was never cut and curled, and was
altogether a reflection on the parent male, a
dreamy little man, who passed the greater part
of the day in his shirt sleeves, at his open door,
with a comb behind his ear, and the handles of
several scissors sticking out of the all round
pocket of his dirty white apron, like a buccaneer
armed to the teeth.

Certainly, Mr. Broadbrook had lodgers, and,
icJieii they paid their Avay ' fair and square,' that
was a something ofi" the rent, and made up for a
paucity of customers. And it is of these lodgers
we have to speak ; just as the inhabitants of
Marsh Walk — especially those living over the
way — had spoken, and wondered, and speculated
about them for the last two years, and made
artful attempts to ' draw out ' Broadbrook, who
was not to be drawn out, for the very sapient
reason that there was nothing to draw, and the
barber was as ignorant as his neighbours.

The lodgers then who rented the small first
floor of Mr. Broadbrook, were a woman of some
forty years of age, and a boy of eleven or
twelve ; the woman a pale, washed-out, fragile
being with ' not an ounce of strength in here's
Mr. Broadbrook said, and said very near the
truth ; the boy also fragile, and white as a ghost,
with two grey eyes which were several sizes too
large for the thin, small face they lighted up so
strangely. A quiet pair of lodgers who gave little
or no trouble, who had brought their own furniture
to the first floor of Mr. Broadbrook' s, and
settled there for good, paying ' pretty tidy
middling ' take them the year round, was the
verdict of the hairdresser.

No one was expected to pay punctually in
Marsh Walk such an out-of-the-way luxury as
the rent ; Mr. Broadbrook seldom paid his own
rent till the brokers were in, when he dunned
Mrs. Wharton for arrears, and sold something on
his own account to make up his quarter. Leave
Mr. Broadbrook alone, and he left other people
alone, being an easy-going person, as was Mrs.
Broadbrook, and as are most poor people with

large families, we fancy. If they were not, they
would die despairing of the better days, and
under the grim surroundings of their lives — as
some reckless souls do die in the big city, after
all, and glad to get out of it too I

Mrs. Wharton was glad to live and take care
of her nephew Phil— though she had not much
to be glad about, and it may be said, at first
start, that Phil took care of her. There had
been times when this was different, but now the
position had changed, and one good turn had
deserved, and brought about another, as it should
do, and as it will do occasionally.

Mrs. Wharton was an invalid, at the period our
story opens, one who had almost lost the use of
her limbs some time after her arrival at Marsh
Walk, and so had been unable to do as much for
Phil as she had anticipated when she had taken
upon herself his sole care and custody.

What did you do that for V asked Mrs. Broad-brook,
who was by nature more curious than
her husband.

There was no one else to take care of him.'

Why not V

Well,' was the slow, reflective response, as if
such a question took a long time to answer,
because there wasn't, don't you see V

Mrs. Broadbrook did not see, but she thought
she did.

An orphan ! poor little chap, is he ? x\h !
that's hard.'

I didn't say he was an orphan.'

*Bad mother, perhaps — or a father who
drinks,' she suggested, without eliciting a response,
and adding by way of encouragement
to confide in her — ' Broadbrook drinks, if he
ain't busy, and it's astonishing what a little gets
into his head.'

*I dare say it does,' was Mrs. Wharton's
broken answer, ' but Phil has not a mother.'

Oh, I see ! that's why you take care of him
whilst the father's away, 1 suppose V

Yes,' she said, ' whilst the father's away —
that's it.'

This was not strikingly explicit, but it was all
the facts that could be elicited from Mrs. Wharton.
And as the father seemed always away,
and never came to see his son, or sister-in-law,

and never wrote a line to either, Mrs. Wharton
had no correspondents whatever. The Broad-brooks,
and the little circle of hard-workers
round the Broadbrooks, were left to guess at
the facts, or give them up. The missing Mr.
Wharton might be abroad, on foreign service,
in the army, or in gaol, or might even have a
nice little lighthouse to mind somewhere — there
was no telKng where he was from Mrs. Wharton's
comments on the subject, and the boy
Philip was as reticent as his aunt.

The Wharton paid their way tolerably fairly
for a while, and Philip went to school in the
neighbourhood, and was considered by his contemporaries
a quiet, milksop sort of youth, who
stood a lot before he was ' riled,' and then let
out a bit and had his say and held his own on
his little battle-field of life, weak and sickly ashe
was. Mrs. Wharton was an artist in wool,
which article, during the first year of her residence
in Marsh Walk, she was incessantly knitting
and crotchets into all kinds of soft goods
that were made into a big parcel once a fortnight,
and sent off to a wholesale house near St.

Paul's Churchyard. And it was out of this
wool-work that her nephew Philip was supported,
for when rheumatic fever seized her, and it was
found after a tedious recovery that the use of
her hands had not come back to her, the woman
and child were in sore straits enough, and had
to throw themselves on the mercy of Mr. Broad-brook,
who, always in a chronic state of debt
and difficulty himself, was not greatly shocked,
and said, ' Don't trouble,' in quite a sympathising
way, and ' When they begin to .bother me,
why, I must bother you, andnot before. That's all.'
And that was quite enough ; for the water rate
was down upon him the next week, and the gasman,
accompanied by a myrmidon in corduroys,
cut off and carried away the meter the week following
and left Samuel Broadbrook to paraffin
lamps and candle dips till the question of arrears
was finally adjusted. And they were adjusted by
Mrs. Wharton's aid, and by the sale of something
or other out of Mrs. Wharton's big box
with brass nails — and Philip always noticed
that when times were very hard, and the people
in them harder, Mrs. Wharton dived into the

big box, and fished therefrom something or
other that fetched money at the pawnbroker's.
Hence there was treasure trove in the corner of
her Httle back bed-room, and it never wholly
failed them. It was to Philip's mind an inexhaustible
well-spring, till one day there was
nothing more to sell, she said, and this at the
time when Samuel Broadbrook had the shadow
of his landlord's last quarter falling once more
across his chequered career like a big black
smudge.

It was at this period that our little hero woke
up.

I think I can earn money now,' said Phil,
very thoughtfully, one day.

Not yet, my poor boy,' said his aunt, shaking
her rusty cap at him, ' it isn't likely yet.'

I'm sure I can earn money,' he exclaimed
with a vehemence which scared Mrs. Wharton
and took her breath away, her nerves never
having been properly under her personal control.
' You see if I can't.'

Mrs. Wharton waited patiently, and did see
within four-and-twenty hours, when Philip

Wharton marched indoors with a golden sovereign
in his hand and laid it triumphantly upon
the table.

'There, auntie,' he said, 'how about that?'

Good gracious, Phil, you must have stolen it,'
exclaimed the old lady, beginning to tremble
like a blanc-mange ; ' oh ! what have you
done V

Earned it.'

Earned a sovereign ! You could not, Phil, it
is not possible.'

Well, I'm going to earn it,' he explained, ' I
begged for this on account, because you weren't
well enough to do any work just yet, I said, and
we were behindhand with the rent, and getting
hungry. And the gentleman said, "I don't
believe in boys, but I'll trust you for once," and
gave me that out of his pocket, and — just like a
gentleman, that was, wasn't it V

'Very much like a kind-hearted gentleman,
indeed, if '

'Here, I'll tell you all about it. They've
been talking about my voice, oh, for ever so long,
at school, and pushing me forward in singing,

and I heard old Prout — that's our singing-master
— say, " That boy's got a soprano voice
that's worth something," and then the choir-master
and organist of a church over Westminster
way came and heard me a week or two back
and said, " What a pity I hadn't been better
trained," and made Prout awful waxy, and
then — are you listening, auntie, or going to
sleep V

I'm listening to every word you say, but yon
rattle on so fast, my head's going round and
round, Phil,' she said, ' and I don't see '

Why, how can you see, when you shut your
eyes, Aunt Bella,' he cried.

Sharp as his father,' muttered Mrs. Wharton,
well, go on, who gave you that sovereign V

Why, the gentleman at Westminster — the
choir-master of St. Eustace's Church, — and he's
going to train me and put me in his choir as
soon as he can, and I am to have twenty pounds
to begin with. There !'

Twenty pounds ! and at your age !' exclaimed
his aunt. * Gracious !'

Andperhaps thirty, though he doesn't promise

that. 1 walked straight to his house to-day,
found him, settled the business,' said this small
boy, with grave self-confidence, * and I only wish
I'd done it before, when I was a young one.'

Thus it was that Master Philip Wharton became
a boy soprano at St. Eustace's Church,
Westminster, and being a quick boy, with a
voice as clear as a bell, he dropped into a salary
that was remarkable considering his years, and
became the mainstay, the prop and support, as
it were, of the feeble woman struck down before
her time, whose one grief was that she was of
so little help to him, assuaged by the one comfort
perhaps that he was of great help to her, and
gave that help with all the warmth of his ungrudging
little heart.

And so, from eleven years of age to twelve,
did Philip Wharton remain at St. Eustace's and
become of grave importance to the choir, and
progressed in musical knowledge, under the
efficient training he received, and was somewhat
a wonder of a boy soprano to be jealously guarded
from other choirs and choir-masters who would
have snapped him up and earned him away perforce.

For choirs are like the myriads in the
water drop, and prey on one another. Philip
was not elated at his success, and indeed hardly
knew he was successful. No one spoiled him
by flattery, and the chorister, an irritable old
gentleman who meant well, but was always
finding fault, told him regularly twice a week
that he could not sing a bit, and was not worth
his salt. The boys were not pleasant company
to Phil either, being bigger and stronger than
he, and invariably disposed to make game of
him when they were not knocking him about,
and his only friend was the young organist,
Folkestone Miles by name — christened Folkestone
by an admiring mother, because he was
born in Dover — and a sandy-haired, limp young-man
by nature he was, who carried his hat on
the back of his head, and wore violet-coloured
glasses, which were always askew, on the
bridge of a long, thin nose. He was a hardworking
young man, paid sparsely for his duties
at the rate of forty pounds per annum, and looking
through his spectacles vaguely for extra
pupils to make a living for him. He lived or

lodged in Hercules Buildings, Lambeth, and
Philip AVharton, being a little fellow, with a
long way to go from Westminster in the same
direction, often trotted by the side of the
organist, who was not too proud to have him
for a companion, and to ask him many questions,
and to be generally interested in this quiet boy
who had much less to say for himself than
most choir boys have, as a rule.

He was an eccentric young man this Folkestone
Miles, and perhaps as curious as the folk in
the Marsh Walk, for the isolation of the lad, his
self-dependence at so early an age, the self-restraint
or reticence, which was characteristic of
him, all aroused the organist's interest and
sympathy.

'That boy's a queer customer,' he said to
himself more than once. 'I'll draw him out.'
And, instead of this, it was Master PhiHp Wharton
who drew out Mr. Folkestone Miles, one
sultry August evening when they were crossing
Westminster Bridge together.

Have you lived in Lambeth all your life,
Phil V Mr. Miles asked, as they walked on side
by side.

'No — have you, sirs answered the quiet lad.

Yes — almost all my life. My father and my
mother died in Lambeth.'

'Did they, though?'

Your father and mother are dead too, Phil,
I suppose V

Mother is — long ago.'

Don't you remember your mother then V

Oh, yes.'

'And what's your father?'

I don't know what aunt calls father. Your
father was an organist, too, wasn't he, sir?'

Yes— that's it. Who told you V

I have heard you say so before. He was at
the same church years ago you told me once.'

Did I,' said this absent-minded young man,
very likely I did — I don't remember.'

Wasn't he very clever at the organ V

He was a great musician,' said Folkestone
Miles, who would always grow enthusiastic over
his father's accomplishments, ' he composed a
fugue that should Lave made his fortune, but it
did not. And there's an oratorio in a drawer at
home — such a manuscript ! If it had only been

VOL. 1. C

played anywhere, Phil, I should have been in a
different position by this time, but you can't sell
oratorios just when you feel disposed. Very
few people want to buy oratorios,' he added,

and nobody wants to hear them.'

What a pity !' said Phil.

I have been composing a little myself — but
there, you don't want to know what IVe done,
and it isn't worth while,' he said, ' only I've done
no good, Phil, and that's my luck always,' he
added, with a pleasant laugh at his own misfortunes.


'Are you very unlucky, Mr. Miles?'

To be sure I am ; but it can't be helped.'

I wish I had forty pounds a year ; I shouldn't
think I was unlucky,' remarked Master Phil,
with great deliberation.

Why, you cheeky young rascal, what would
you do with it?'

*Help aunt more. Help poor old Broad-brook.'


And help yourself,' suggested the organist.

No, I wasn't thinking of myself,' said Phil ;

good-night, sir.'

Good-night, Phil, good-night. Be early
Sunday morning, or you'll have the choir-master
down on you. He said you were very
late to-night. And you mustn't offend him.'

Did he say that V said Phil ; * yes, I tuas
late. But I couldn't help it.'

One can always help being late.'

Not always,' replied the boy, deliberately,
and very gravely.

Why not V

'Not when anyone's ill, and wants a doctor.'

Who's ill where you live V
My aunt.'

Why, you haven't said anything about it,'
said the amazed organist. ' You didn't tell Mr.
Holloboys that that was the reason f

'No. 1 didn't want to talk of it. Goodnight,
sir ;' and Phil, with his hymn-book under
his arm, and his hands in his trousers pockets,
walked slowly and thoughtfully away, looking
more like a little old man than the boy of twelve
that he really was.

The organist glanced after him curiously,
stood on the kerbstone of his native street, and

o2

watched bim through his violet glasses, instead
of letting himself into the house with his latchkey,
and proceeding to his bachelor quarters on
the second-floor back. He grew almost uneasy
about the lad ; the lad's grave manner that night
puzzled him, and suddenly he made a dash after
him, and overtook him as he was turning into
Lambeth Road. ,

Here, Phil,' he said, as he came up with him
again, to the boy's astonishment, 'can 1 be
of any use in any way? You're down tonight,
and if there's anything I can do, you
know '

Thank you, Mr. Miles. It's very kind of you,'
he answered, looking up very steadily with his
great grey eyes at the speaker ; * but no, you
can't be of any use to her.'

Is she so very ill, then V

I don't know. I couldn't wait to hear what
the doctor said.'

Do you think she's very ill V

She's different like — to me,' he answered.

Isn't there anyone to write to V
'Oh, no.'

nobody?'

Nobody

Shall I come home with you V

What's the use, sir?'

'Well, I don't know,' confessed Mr. Miles;
but if you should find out in any way that I
<;an be of use, why, you know where I live.'

The boy nodded, and murmured something
that was intended for thanks, but which would
not come further than a brand-new bung which
had suddenly risen up in his throat, and arrested
further powers of speech.

With the consciousness that he was rather in
the way, Mr. Folkestone Miles turned back,
wondering at the boy, wondering a little more
Avhat would become of this quiet youth if the
aunt were to die, and leave that twelve-year old
to begin life entirely on his own account. He
wondered at a little more than that, too— why
he should be interested in him in any way —
having had some years' experience of choir-boys,
and being disposed to consider them, upon the
whole, as hideous and irreverent tormentors,
prepared for any mischief when his back, or Mr.

Holloway's back, was turned, and doing a fair
amount of it on practice nights before his very
face.

'But this is such an odd sort of boy,' he
muttered, ' a boy who keeps himself to himself.
A boy I don't make out, at all, a boy who — oh !
bother the boy.'

And he stepped out in double-quick time towards
home, resolved to mind his own business,
and to brush and do himself up sprucely for a
late visit to a pupil — a brush manufacturers
daughter in the Westminster Road, who served
in the shop, and had only time for the accomplishments
after nine o'clock in the evening,
when her father, a rough old savage, sat and
smoked opposite master and pupil, and made
crude and scoffing comments upon his daughter's
five-finger exercises. But, though of limited
musical intelligence, she was a pretty, amiable
girl, and Folkestone Miles thought a great deal
about her, and only wished his receipts were
five hundred pounds a year instead of about
fifty-eight, take them altogether, and then — Oh !
then.

Still it was not nine o'clock, it wanted a
quarter to nine, when he was outside in the
Hercules Buildings again, with a sprig of red
geranium — his own culture from a sooty plant
which was perched on his window-sill — in his
left hand top button hole, and the boy he had
left suddenly rose in his mind again like a ghost
not to be exorcised too readily.

I'll just go into the Marsh Walk and see if
it's all right at Broadbrook's. If — if the shutters
are down, and the blinds are up, poor little chap,'
he muttered, and away he went once more in
the direction of Phil Wharton's lodgings, a being
possessed with one idea.

Yes, it was all right, and Folkestone Miles*
spirits went up seventy-five per cent, for no
reason that could be accounted for, or that he,
callous being as he thought himself, was likely
to own. There was Mr. Broadbrook at the door,
serene and smiling and red-headed and hot,
with a girdle of bright scissors handles glistening
all round his fairly plump waist; there were
three little red headed Broadbrooks, who should
have been in bed hours ago, tumbling about the

j^hop, and playing with two razors and half-a-dozen
balls of sand soap left promiscuously on the
floor, and there were the blinds on the first floor
still drawn up to admit into the room all that
was left of the twilight lingering in Marsh
AValk.

That's all right,' thought Mr. Miles again ashe
walked away. But it was not all right, or
hardly as right as it might have been.

For if Mr. Folkestone Miles had not been
short-sighted, or had his weak vision been unclouded
by violet glass, which had grown
terribly steamy and dull that close evening, he
would have recognized, and been surprised to
recognize, a burly, high-shouldered, broad-faced,
black-muzzled man, who had asked him in
Westminster the way to Charing Cross, who had
thanked him surlily for the information, and
then marched off in a different direction to that
which he had been told, who had hung about
the church and listened to the choir practice
going on within, who had put his head through
the doors to listen more attentively, and to peer
more closely into the shadowy edifice, who had

followed step by step the organist and the boy
from Westminster to Lambeth, and who was
leaning against the lamp-post at the corner of
the street opposite, ostensibly a street figure that
was very street, and was watching furtively
from his bloated and blood-shot eyes, as wolves
and foxes Avatch, the windows over the barber's
shop, or something beyond the windows of the
room in which Phil Wharton and his aunt were
sitting.

Aunt and little Phil were as unconscious of
the man without, as Folkestone Miles had been.
They would as soon have believed in one risen
from the dead, as in his coming back ; and they
would have been less scared at the opening of
the grave, and the white figure rising in its
cere-cloth, than at encountering face to face that
dreadful man again.

CHAPTER 11.

FOXY WHARTON HAS HIS HAIR CUT.

Although Folkestone Miles, organist of St.
Eustace, had not seen the man at the opposite
lamp-post, the man at the opposite lamp-post
had taken stock of him, and swung his ungainly
and ill-clad body round a Httle, as if anxious to
escape the attention of one of whom he had inquired
a short time since the way to Charing
Cross. When Mr. Miles had departed after satisfying
his mind that all was right at Broadbrook's,
the man slowly relapsed into his old position, and
from under his shaggy eyebrows — which seemed
made of wire, so thick and bristly were they —
kept his watch again upon the hair-dresser's
shop, and upon the hair-dresser himself standing

in the cool of the evening on the threshold of
the domicile, with a self-satisfied smile upon his
countenance.

Presently the watcher crossed the road, and
with a solid, heavy slouch moved towards Mr.
Broadbrook, who not expecting a customer, or
such a customer, gave a little jump of surprise
as he stopped in front of him.

Not too late to have my hair cut, governor,
is it V he said, in a tone of forced familiarity that
was particularly out of place in a gentleman so
strikingly forbidding.

*N — no,' said Mr. Broadbrook, hesitatingly.
It's never too late for customers.'

Very well then.'

The charge is threepence — in advance,' Mr.
Broadbrook added, doubtfully regarding the newcomer.


' Don't I look worth threepence V asked the
man, as he placed three pennies in the hand of
the hairdresser forthwith.

Oh yes, but it's the rule of the establishment.'


Mr. Broadbrook backed into his shop, andover

his sprawling children, set a chair for his
visitor, and entrapped him with much briskness
and sleight of hand in a grey cotton sheet that
had only been a week from the wash, and was
less dingy than might have been expected.

Run away, my chicks,' said Mr. Broadbrook
to his progeny, ' You see, papa is engaged,' and,
.at this suggestion, the three young Broadbrooks
-scrambled off the floor and departed like dutiful
children to another sphere of action. Meanwhile
the customer for hair-cutting sat with a
very much battered, billy-cock hat on his head
as though there was no necessity to remove
it.

Will you allow me ' said the hair-dresser

at last, with a suave movement of the hands in
the direction of the hat, and the man who was
staring absently at the fireplace in the shop, and
the hot shaving water ready on the hob for anyone
who might want an evening ha'porth, said
nothing in dissent. Mr. Broadbrook removed
the hat gently, turned up his one jet of gas, and
produced a pair of scissors from his apron ^vith
an easy flourish. Then he paused and looked

down on his customer's head of hair, with a
certain amount of curiosity and awe. He had
seen a great many heads of hair in his time, and
had operated upon them fearlessly — and masculine
heads of hair in Marsh Walk were of all
degrees of singleness and picturesque confusion
but this particular crop was uncommonly and
luxuriantly wild, and matted together so
strangely that even Mr. Broadbrook was perplexed
how to make his first start, and in which
direction.

Fine weather for the country, sir,' he remarked,
as he hovered in the rear with comb and
scissors prepared for immediate action.

Yes,' hastily assented the gentleman in the
chair, ' fine weather.'

Been in the country lately, sir V Mr. Broad-brook
ventured to remark, as he became aware
of the various grassy filaments mixed with his
customer's hair, and which were strongly suggestive
of the gentleman having slept last night
under a haystack.

I came from the country yesterday. I have
been there for the benefit of my health,' he add-eel,

with a sudden, mocking laugh which had no
sense of fun in it.

Oh ! indeed. Harvest all in, I suppose V

The man writhed in his grey wrapper as
though !Mr. Broadbrook's questions were annoying
him, and then growled forth —

I don't know. And I don't care if it isn't.'

*No — ahem — I suppose not. Hoar will you
have your hair cut, sir ? Long or '

Anyhow,' he answered, without waiting for
the operator to finish his sentence.

*0h.'

You don't think it matters a great deal in
what particular style I have it cut,' he said, in a
friendly tone, as if suddenly aware that civility
of demeanour would become him better, ' do
you, now?'

Well — we always like to know.'

I was particular enough when I was a
young fool, but I've got over all that nonsense
now. So, Mr. Broadbrook, I leave it to your
taste.'

Very good, sir.'

Then the little barber attacked him in earnest,

and struggled hard with comb and scissors, the
customer groaning very often, and cursing now
and then between his strong, white teeth, which
would have been a redeeming feature in his
personal appearance, had they been a little less
in size than dominoes.

Presently when he was out of pain, and there
was a considerable portion of his hair shorn or
torn away, and lying on Mr. Broadbrook's sanded
floor, he said :

You must find it uphill work to make a
fortune here, Mr. Broadbrookf

Fortune is not the word, sir. A having it is
nothing more.'

And you get a living out of this. Really V

Really,' repeated the hairdresser, not disposed
to run down his own position in society before
so rough a customer, ' and a fair living too, as
times go.'

'Ah! you're lucky,' remarked the man, as if
he doubted him ; ' I don't see how it pays myself.
I could put you in a way of earning
money a bit faster.'

Mr. Broadbrook did not respond. He did not

like the manners of the individual whose head
he was, as he inelegantly termed it, ' licking into
shape,' and though they Avere exceptionally
good manners for the gentleman under treatment
— company manners, in fact — they had
failed to make a favourable impression on the
hairdresser.

After a moment's silence, and imagining Mr.
Broadbrook had not heard him, he repeated
slowly :

I could put you in a way of earning money
a bit faster than this. Don't you hear?' he
added, sharply: and after another moment's
pause, 'Where's your tongue got to all of a
sudden ? You were talkative enough a minute
ago.'

I don't want to earn any money,' said the
hairdresser, tetchily.

Oh, don't you though V

And you will excuse me, but you look as if
you did.'

The man scowled at Mr. Broadbrook, as
though he resented this flippant and uncalled-for
observation, and the hairdresser felt an unpleasant

creeping up his back, at the darkhug glance
bestowed upon him. Mr. Broadbrook was not a
brave man, and, as a rule, not personal, but the
impudence of some people, he considered, would
make a worm turn, and hence his natural affability
had changed suddenly to pertness. He was
a London shopkeeper in a big thoroughfare — one
who paid his rent and taxes pretty regularly —
and to be ' talked to ' by a common rough,
emphatically a rough, was a little too much for
his equanimity.

Nevertheless he wished he had not taken any
notice of him and his remarks, after encountering
that terrible sidelong glance from the man
saddled up in the grey wrapper. It told of a
creature who was dangerous — of a wild beast to
be on guard against, he was pretty sure of that.

The best thing to be done, was to get him
out of the shop as speedily as possible, and to be
as cis-il as possible to him also until he had gone.
This was a fellow out of the common — or out of
the jungle — and Mr. Broadbrook had not discovered
that fact a moment too soon.

The man seemed to read what was passing in

VOL. I. D

the hairdresser s mind — being with all his crudeness,
his suppressed desperateness, a man of an
observant tm'n — for he made another effort to
laugh pleasantly, and turned Mr. Broadbrook all
goose-flesh in the futile effort.

Money-making never was in my line,' he remarked.
* I've had my chances, and lost them,
like a good many more people. And T don't
complain, do I ?'

*No, indeed. Dear me. Certainly not,' replied
Mr. Broadbrook, willing to agree with his
customer on every point now.

What's the good of complaining after the
chance has slipped out of one's hands ? Do you
see any good in that V

No, I don't.'

Then you're a philosopher. Come over the
way and have a drink V

'N — no, thank you,' stammered Mr. Broad-brook,
*I — I never drink in business hours.'

That's a lie,' was the flat contradiction here.
You came out of the " Jolly Gardeners " three
quarters of an hour ago, wiping the back of your
hand on that slobbery mouth of yours. I saw you.'

'I — 1 went to see the time,' explained Mr.
Broadbrook, and yet wondering why he said
this, as if by way of an apology. And he had
popped across the road with that object, and
the landlord had in the most friendly spirit asked
him if he would — 'just a drain,' and he had
'drained' accordingly, at the liberal expense of
a liberal but improvident host who was fast
draining himself into his grave by undue consumption
of the stock-in-trade.

I don't want to force anybody to drink with
me said the man, making another effort to be
conciliatory, after his impromptu burst of energy.
rVe plenty of friends too glad to get drunk at
my expense. Even you don't find friends of
that sort scarce, I reckon V

Oh, dear, no, certainly not,' assented the
barber, with a feeble chuckle. ' There's lots of
that sort about, and no mistake.'

The man's hair was cut, but he still sat there,
wrapped in Mr. Broadbrook's cotton toga, as
though he had found the hairdresser to be
pleasant company, and was very loth to part
with him. He could not expect to sit there all

d2

night for threepence, and talk in that queer,
scoffing way like a man who had had his better
days, and been a fool in them ; and Mr. Broad-brook
hoped in his heart another late customer
would step into his premises and oust the
present party from them.

There you are, sir, unless there is anything
else I can do,' said Mr. Broadbrook at last, and
whisking the wrapper suddenly from the stalwart
form before him.

The man looked at him from his half-shut,
crafty eyes, and, with a smile that was as bad
as his laugh had been, said,

Do you think I look nice and smart now V

It has certainly improved you.'

Fit for the society of ladies, eh V

Why not V rejoined Mr. Broadbrook, lightly,
and yet not committing himself to a palpable
untruth.

'And why not?' was the echo back. 'Then,
Mr. Broadbrook, be good enough to inform your
upstairs lodger — your " first-floor front," as you
would call her — that her brother Foxy particularly
wishes to see her.'

Bless my soul and body !'

And that he's not going away without seeing
her,' added Mr. Wharton, as his big teeth
closed together with a clashing sound, ^ and if
he stops here till doomsday. You may as well
mention that to her as well whilst you are about
it, Broadbrook.'

CHAPTER III.

WHAT HE CAME FOR.

Mr. Broadbrook remained speechless for a few
moments, and regarded Mr. Wharton with eyes
distended, and his lower jaw reposing on his
chest.

Mrs. — Wharton's — brother !' he gasped forth
at last. ' I — I didn't know she had a brother.'

She's a close one. Miss Wharton — or Mrs.
Wharton, if she likes it better — always was a
close one,' replied Mr. Wharton. 'Don't you
see a likeness V

Can't say I do, although, now you come to
speak of it '

Tell her, will you V exclaimed Mr. Wharton,
very roughly now. ' Do you think I can wait
here all night talking to you V

Mr. Broadbrook was scared by this fierce
inquiry out of his own shop into his back-parlour,
where was Mrs. Broadbrook, to whom he
communicated the news in a stage whisper, and
making many excited danger-signals with his
arms.

Go up and tell her, Charlotte, he's come.'

Who's come?' exclaimed his better half.

Her brother — a regular blackguard — had his
hair cut — wants to see her — ask her to tell you
whether I shall show him up, or send for a
dozen policemen to take him away. Look
sharp.'

Mrs. Broadbrook, looking sharp in consequence,
hurried upstairs to the first floor, and
her lord and master skipped into the shop again,
where he found his customer examining a small
regiment of razors ranged in a row against the
wall, taking one down after another, and feeling
the edge of each with a very black, thick thumb.

< Well, what does she say V he asked, as the
hair-dresser reappeared.

Mrs. Broadbrook has gone upstairs with your
message.'

I asked you to go,' he growled forth. ' Women
always muddle messages.'

Mrs. Broadbrook is a much better hand at
messages that I am ; and I never leave my shop
till the shutters are up,' the hair-dresser added,
with a faint assumption of dignity.

Except when you go over to the '• Jolly
Gardeners'" said the man, with a shrug of his
broad shoulders. Then he put the last razor
back, and began to walk round the shop slowly,
reading all the bills upon the walls, the programmes
of the ' Surrey ' and ' Victoria,' the
grand attractions at the 'South London' and
the ' Canterbury,' the wonders to be seen nightly
at ' Gatti's ' and the * Winchester,' the ' friendly
lead ' at the ' Masters' Arms, in Gravel Lane,' the
annual summer excursion of the Lambeth Undertakers
to Box Hill, the terms for a quarter's instruction
at the dancing academies down various
back streets in the vicinity, the forthcoming
great cricket-match at the Oval, and a * prompt '
sale by auction of the goods and chattels of an
unhappy neighbour, too far gone in arrears of
rent to do anything but be sold off without reserve.

Mr. Wharton had read all these announcements
before Mrs. Broadbrook came into the
shop : his impatience had vanished again and ' he
seemed to take it awful easy,' thought the hairdresser.
He was in no hurry now — quite the
contrary.

And how's the boy getting on, Broadbrook V
he asked, as he turned away from the last specimen
of wall literature with which the shop was
decorated, 'how's Phil f

Oh ! he's pretty well,' replied the hair-dresser,
works hard, and gets on, I should say, famously.
A nice little fellow.'

I am glad to hear you say that. Thanked,
sir — thanked.'

He ain't — is he — ' began Mr. Broadbrook.

My only son, sir. Yes. And what a sweet
voice he has — and how it tells at St. Eustace's.
Have you heard him sing?'

I should think I had,' exclaimed the hairdresser,
* not at St. Eustace's, for it's a goodish
way off, and Mrs. Broadbrook takes the young
ones to the chapel round the corner, in the afternoon,
when it isn't too hot ; but of course we have

all heard him. We sit on the stairs, one behind
the other sometimes, and listen to his singing,
his practising, you know. It's beautiful — one
wonders where it comes from — he's a wonderful
little chap, take him altogether.'

Yes. That's why I'm so proud of him,' said
Mr. Wharton.

Oh ! you are V replied Mr. Broadbrook, < Oh I
indeed.'

I don't miss a note of his voice every Sunday.
I can pick him out of the whole lot of
them, like a winkle. I can Oh ! here's somebody
at last.'

Mrs. Broadbrook emerged cautiously from the
back parlour into the shop, and approached Mr.
Wharton almost on tiptoe.

She's very ill '

What do I care about that,' cried the man,
flaming out again, ' what's that to do with me —
what's '

Gracious, man, let a body finish exclaimed
the barber's wife, starting off herself in a higher
and shriller key, < but she'll see you, if you wish.'

All right. J do wish.'

Then go upstairs, and don't make too much
noise or you'll wake my baby,' said Mrs. Broad-brook,
* it's the first floor front room.'

I know,' answered Wharton, nodding his
head as he strode past her into the parlement
through a side door leading to the stairs, up
which he clumped his way in heavy, thick-soled
boots, covered with a week's mud, which had
dried upon the leather in a white and nubbly
pattern. On the first landing stood a pale-faced
boy holding in his hand a small oil-lamp to light
the footsteps of the visitor towards him — a boy
with eyes too large for him now in very truth,
dilated, as they were, with horror at the man's
approach. The coming of a phantom from
another world could not have scared young-phil
Wharton more than this coming of his
father, who from another world too — a world of
sin, and shame, and devilry, beyond one's power
to describe — advanced towards him like an ogre.

Phil,' said the father, in a rough grating voice,
as he caught sight of him on the landing, * so
you're there then.'

Yes,' was the soft, low answer back.

As the father approached, the son, Hght in
hand, went slowly backwards through the open
doorway keeping his great grey eyes fixed upon
the visitor, and then, step by step, into the room
and to the side of his sick aunt, sitting in a
pillowed chair by the fireplace, nth two thin
hands crossed upon her lap, and her white,
lined face, turned steadily towards her brother
as he entered with that scowl of hate she knew
so well, and had fled from, years ago. And yet,
with him before her again, it seemed only a day or
two since she had stolen away, taking his child
with her, saving his child from him.

Phil put the little lamp on the mantelpiece,
and then stood by his aunt's side watchful, and
calm, and pale, and Foxy Wharton looked from
one to the other as he closed the door carefully
behind him, and turned the key in the lock, as
though doubtful or afraid of those who might
follow in his wake.

Mrs. Wharton was the first to speak.

I did not think 1 should see you any more in
life, Mark,' she said, calmly. ' I had a hope
that you were dead.'

A pretty hope that was,' answered the man,
so nice and kind too ! I'd have been ashamed
to own as much as that to anyone. Well, I
haven't come to see you — I could have lived on
or died off, without fretting myself about you,
Bella, very comfortably.'

What have you come for, then T

For him /'

And Mr. Mark Wharton, better known
amongst a choice circle of friends and acquaintances
as Foxy AVharton, stepped across the
worn-out hearth rug, and laid his big broad hand
upon the shoulder of his son.

CHAPTER IV.

PHIL ACTS FOR HIMSELF.

Phil Wharton shrank for an instant beneath
the heavy hand of his parent, and then recovered
himself and looked his father steadily in the
face.

I can't leave aunt,' he said.

We shall see about that Mr. Wharton answered;
'you go and sit down there whilst I
talk to your aunt a little while. I hate listeners.
They're dirty sneaks.'

Phil need not stay at all,' murmured Mrs.
Wharton.

Oh, yes, he need,' was the flat contradiction
proffered by her brother. 'Do you think 1 have
taken all this trouble to find my only child — the

long-lost son, feloniously abstracted from my
house and home — to have him slip away
again. Thank you, Bella dear, but I'll keep
him in sight, please.'

Phil sat down by the window — which was
still open that hot summer night — and looked
into the street below. He was very pale, but
very grave and self-possessed. It was impossible
to guess what thoughts were troubling him,
or distressing him, by. a glance at his quiet
little face. They were shutting up some of the
shops in the Marsh Walk now ; all the drapers
and all the ' fancy goods ' depots for wooden
dolls and tin soldiers and detonating balls
were closed ; the green grocer's, the hot-baked
sleeps' heads emporium, the cheesemonger's
next door, and the oil-shop were still expectant
of customers, though they had lowered their
gas to half-cock : the tobacconist over the way
was actually busy with three youths, the tallest
having resolved to try one of ' Brown's famous
penny smokes,' and his two companions having
accompanied him to superintend the purchase
and make sure that Mr. Brown picked out a

nice and mild one; and the * Jolly Gardeners*
was a blaze of light and life, with two performers,
with violin and piccolo, playing at the
jug and bottle entrance, the piccolo with his left
eye riveted on the landlord behind the distant
counter. There were some drops of rain pattering
into the street, and covering the parlement
with black spots, and the policeman across the
road was telling the master butcher next to
Brown's that it would be a wet night, and very
good for the country, if not for him upon his
beat. Phil could hear the words, and he wondered
what hind of night it would be for him
now, and how it would end, with Foxy Wharton
glowering at him there, and his aunt endeavouring
to look calm and undismayed, and
hold her ground against her brother.

Mr. Wharton had taken a seat and was leaning
a little forward on the chair making his
intentions as plain as possible to his sister, and
emphasising his discourse by various slaps on
the table with his brown, hard hand. He had
been always, even in his l:)est days, a noisy braggart,
Mrs. Wharton was aware, and therefore

his manner was not new to her, and did not in
any way surprise her. She remembered it too
well — she, and the poor wife who had died
young, and got away from him, had grown very
used to it once upon a time. And here was
the grim, dark time back again, as it were, and
these three face to face again without any
friendly greeting, any token of the strong tie of
kindred existent between them, any loving
looks or fair-spoken words. Nothing but fear
and distrust, and a wonder in the woman's
mind, as in the boy's, as to what would come of
it all.

The man was endeavouring to make that
clear enough to them ; but his listeners were not
disposed to agree with him, only to speculate
already as to what would be the result of opposition
to his wishes, even to the extent of a
direct defiance of them.

He spoke of the law, and laid before them the
law's opinion, which they did not believe. He
had been all his life too lawless himself to impress
them very much in that way — hence his
legal knowledge, his exhibition of virtuous in-vol.
I. K

indignation, might-under less serious circumstances
to them, have bordered on burlesque.
But now in their hearts they were simply afraid
of him. They had run away in fear of him some
years ago, and the fear had grown no less.
That night had even added to its strength.
This was a crisis in their career which they
thought might come some day, although the
man had never cared for them, and might
possibly have been very glad to get rid of them
for what they knew to the contrary. Why
should he want to see them ? — they had been a
clog upon him always, and he had always looked
upon them as very much in his way, and told
them so, and swore at them for the encumbrances
they were. They had not credited him
with any paternal instincts, and yet, after all,
there he was before them asserting his rights
to be considered the lawful guardian of his son.

What use would he be to jour inquired Mrs.
Wharton at last.

Never mind what use. That's my business,'
replied her brother ; * and its high time I looked
after him, and saw his education was not being

neglected. How do I know in what way the
boy has been dragged up V

He has been well looked after,' was the slow
reply. 'He will make a better man, Foxy,
than you have been.'

I don't want any sauce,' Mr. Wharton replied.
You always had a nasty, biting tongue of your
own, and that's what got you so generally disliked.
And I'll thank you not to call me
"Foxy;" it's a vulgar nickname, which I repudiate.'


You were rather proud of it once, I used to
think.'

'Pity you hadn't something better to think
about,' said her brother ; ' to think, for instance,
how that dear boy is going to get on in the
world after you are gone — and you don't look
as if you'd last the blessed week out — or of how
you reconcile your canting talk with running
away with my property. What have you done
with that V

It was Mary's own property. It belonged to
her mother. It has been used to keep Phil
alive. Mary gave it me, when she begged me

E 2

Library

"^"VERs/TYoFfrrrwov

to escape with Phil, at any risk and cost, to get
away from you

It's all very well to tell me that. It's a poor
excuse, and I don't believe a word of it,' he
said.

It's the truth.'

*It's a clear case of kidnapping and wholesale
felony. What do you think the police would
say to the whole business V he inquired.

Call in the police and ask them.'

Shan't. I am not so fond of them. I can
manage my own business, thank you. So, Phil,*^
(in a loud voice), ' get on your cap, and come
with me.'

Where f asked Phil, quietly.

Never you mind where,' roared the man;
that you'll find out in good time. Pm your
father, and there's no one here dare stop me — no
one to prove he has the faintest right to stop me ;
so come on.'

x^nd aunt, who has been so good and kind
to me since mother died — who has been so like
the mother to me V murmured the boy.

Rot your aunt !' he exclaimed. * I'll have

nothing to do with her ; and I'll train you up to
hate her presently.'

« Oh, no, you won't.'

What's that you say f

You can't do that, father ; that's not in your
power.'

Mr. Wharton looked hard at the boy, whose
pale face was set and resolute, and whose grey
eyes did not flinch from the fierce light they met
in his. He wavered, and then changed front.
I mean,' he said, ' when you know all the truth
which she's kept from you, boy. When you a ad
I are in the country together, living like lords
or fighting-cocks, and happy as the day is long,
with no work to do, and yet the money coming
in, nice and regular, Phil, and only the two of
us to spend it. When '

I can't go with you.'
But you must go.'

I can't trust you again. I'm afraid of you as
as mother was,' said Phil. ' I recollect what
you were before we ran away. I can't forget all
that.'

Here, Pve stood enough of this !' he shouted.

What were Mr. Wharton's intentions were not
very clearly manifested, although he had sprung
to his feet as if with the object of carrying off
his son by sheer force of arms — not so difficult a
task, perhaps, considering those with whom he
had to contend, and ' the rights ' which were on
his side. He could not go to law, perhaps, for
the recovery of his child, but there was no one
to go to law with him — no one to whom this
mighty, sluggish law would listen, if Phil were
once in his possession.

Bella Wharton saw this, and the boy's instincts
were keen enough to second her. In his father's
power he was surely helpless. Foxy AA^harton
had been so terrible a sire — so iiTcdeemably
bad and callous and unjust — and life with him"
again was to live the life of the lost. Woman
and child had striven hard to get away from him,
and this was too miserable an end to all their
efforts.

Phil seemed to have only one chance of
settling the question that night, and that was to
get away as speedily and swiftly as it had been
done before. At all events it would postpone

the question for that evening, and save further
disputes and much violence of language. Phil
stepped suddenly out of the window, amongst
the flower-pots, and went lightly along the
narrow ledge of shops to Hickman's the cheesemonger's
next door, where there was a shop-blind
still running out across the street, and an
iron bar thereto supporting it, festooned by Ostend
rabbits. The instant afterwards Phil Wharton
was dangling amongst the rabbits, and the
instant after that he had dropped to the ground,
bringing down a rabbit or two with him,
frightening the man in charge, and scaring ]mr.
Broadbrook almost out of his life, and just as he
was gingerly putting up the last shutter of his
establishment.

Bless my soul and body, what's the matter
now,' exclaimed the hairdresser, as he slipped
down, shutter and all, on the wet pavement in
his consternation.

Don't say which way Pve gone. Be good
to aunt, please,' cried Phil, as he took to his
heels — and a very light pair of heels too — along
the middle of the Marsh Walk, sending up a

fountain of mud over himself as he ran. Mr.
Broadbrook gathered up himself and his shutter
and looked vacantly after Phil's retreating
figure till he was once more swung round by
an opposing force in the huge shape of Mr,
Wharton, who came tumbling out of the shop
and upon him.

Which way has he gone V he cried out.

Which — way — has — who gone V asked the
barber, staggering about with his shutter very
helplessly.

Foxy Wharton did not stop to explain. In
the distance he could see Phil running swiftly
along, and he set up a whoop of ' Stop thief,'
which roused the echoes of the street, and
enlisted attention and auxiliary forces at once.

*Stop thief set all Marsh Walk alive. It
always did. The place was a common hunting-ground
for the vagrant and the desperate, and,
though this was a cry patent to the neighbourhood,
it always aroused interest and excitement
and ' fun.' Mr. Broadbrook put up his remaining
shutter and then joined in the race on his
own account, and in the hope of being of some

service should Phil be overtaken, and the cheesemonger's
young man followed with alacrity,
believing that he was a rabbit short, and not
stopping to count his stock in hand in the eagerness
of pm^snit.

But when Foxy Wharton, and his band of
volunteers, and the hairdresser, and the cheesemonger's
young man had turned the corner
of the street down which Phil had plunged,
there was no sign of the youth who had taken
flight, and all was damp, and dark, and desolate
in James Street. Conscious of this fact, after a
while, Mr. Broadbrook went speedily homewards,
before Mr. Wharton had recognized him, and
bolted and barred his premises for the night
with an extra degree of precaution.

He would sit up for Phil, nevertheless, being
sure that he should see him later on, and hear him
knock quietly at the door for re-admittance,
which would be granted after a few inquiries
through the key-hole, and the making sure that
it was not Foxy Wharton who had returned.
He went upstairs along with his better half, to
talk it over with the aunt, who had ' quieted

down,' she said, and was very glad that Phil
had got away — and very sure, like Mr. Broad-brook,
that Phil would quickly be back again.

I shall see him soon, and then we will talk
over what is best to do,' she said.

But she never saw Phil Wharton again, and
there was no talking it over in this world for
her.

CHAPTER V.

FALSE SECURITY.

The next day there came a letter to Mrs. Wharton,
care of Mr. Broadbrook, hairdresser, 729,
Marsh Walk, and the letter was from her nephew
Phil, and ran as follows : —

Hercules Buildings,

Lambeth.

« My dear Aunt,

I got away stunning ! But it was
not till I was clear off that I found out I had
twisted my ankle dropping from old Hickman's
blind. Tell him I avery sorry, and hope the
rabbits did not get much damaged, and if they
did, I will pay for them some day. I fancy you
gave me the office ' tipped me the icinh — the boy

had written iu true boyish slang, and then had
crossed it out again, at the suggestion of a
friend to whom he had shown the letter before
despatching it) 'to get away; and it was jolly
easy to slip out of the window and drop into the
street. I am afraid I dropped upon Mr. Broad-brook,
as he was shutting up the shop ; but I
don't remember anything, except seeing him
sitting upon the wet pavement, with the shutter
in his lap. My love to him, and I hope he isn't
hurt. I am quite safe with Mr. Miles the organist,
who is going to keep me in his house, and out
of the way, until my ankle is better, and I can
get about again. He is a regular good one'
(rich had been erased, and good one substituted),
' and won't let me move off the sofa ; and
hopes you will not fret about my being absent,
or let father worry you again, if you can help it.
You will do as well as you can without me, and
keep nice and cheerful. I hope to get to church
next Sunday. Mr. Miles-thinks it would not be
safe for you to come round to me, as father maybe
watching the shop in Marsh Walk, and follow
you. I miss you very much. My best love, and

please feed mj silkworms, which you will find
inside my Sunday cap, and I should like my
prayer-book and hymn-book sent by post, and"
don't worry about me, and get well soon, and
God bless you, auntie, and with love to you, and
all the Broadbrooks,

*Your affectionate Nephew,

Pnnjp Wharton.'

That's a good boy, to think of all those who
are anxious about him,' said Mr. Broadbrook, to
whom the letter was slowly and gravely read
by Mrs. Wharton ; • I'm very glad he's written.'

You will not let my brother know where Phil
is, if he should call again?' said the old lady.

« Madam, 1 would rather welter in my own
gore, in my own shop, slain by his own hand,'
answered the brave Broadbrook,

*Yes, it would be better,' remarked Mrs.
Wharton, absently. * Thank you — sou are very
kind.'

But there was nothing seen of Foxy Wharton
in Marsh Walk, and the opportunity to defy
that gentleman was not offered to Mr. Broad-brook.

Still, the bouse was watched, and a
very thin, shabby, collarless man, deeply pitted
with small-pox, took an interest in the wares
displayed in the shop window, and gazed at
them admiringly half an horn' at a time, despite
the stock consisting only of pomatum pots, a few
combs and brushes damaged by the sun and the
flies, and seven bottles of ' Broadbrook's Threepenny
Rose-Oil for the Nursery,' a bright crimson
fluid which the nurseries of Marsh AValk sternly
refused to patronize, although there was nearly
half a Pint for threepence, and the colour was
absolutely dazzling.

This tliia man of shabby exterior, * with a
face like a cribbage board,' as Mr. Broadbrook
described it afterwards, was evidently keeping
an eye upon the premises, and was not to be
frowned away by the proprietor. Ashen tired
nth gazing in the window he would take up
his position by the lamp-post, where Mr. Wharton
once stood, or hang around the doors of the
Jolly Gardeners,' dropping in occasionally, like a
man with drink money to spare, and very often
thirsty. Mr. Broadbrook took counsel of a

policeman, who did not see what was to be done,
and recommended Mr. Bradbrook's applying to
the police station in the Lane, where the hairdresser
was snubbed by the inspector and told
to mind his own business, and to wait at least
till something illegal had happened before he
began harassing the authorities with his 
stories. As for the father, why, he loss
the boy's father, and nobody denied it, and
there was nothing to be said against him that
anybody could prove, and Mr. Broadbrook
and his female lodger had better be careful
they did not get themselves into trouble presently
for keeping the boy away from his lawful
guardian. Just what Foxy Wharton had said —
and said with emphasis; and Mr. Broadbrook
returned to his shop in Marsh AValk in a desolate
frame of mind, and with a dim prospect of
standing in the dock by the side of Mrs. Wharton,
to answer a charge of kidnapping.

But the lawful guardian did not claim the
assistance of the law. The name of Wharton
was unknown to the police, but there were
several aliases by which he had been known,

and might be still inquired for, and it was as
well to manage matters his own way. And his
own way was to take possession of his son, and
bring him up to be a comfort, and a source of
profit to him.

And we may say at once that he was perfectly
aware what had become of Phil, and
with whom he was staying. He had not followed
Phil Wharton from the church of St.
Eustace, Westminster, to his home in Marsh
Walk for nothing ; he had seen his son in company
with the organist, and noticed him shake
hands with him at the door of his lodgings ;
and it was Folkestone Miles to whom his
suspicions were first directed when it was
discovered that the choir-boy did not return to
his aunt Bella.

The nets were closing round this little stray,
though he was unaware of it, and Folkestone
Miles, as well as himself, was buoyed up by
false security.

It is all right, I think,' the organist said on
the Sunday morning, when it was very much all
wrong, and Phil was able to limp, if a little

slowly, across Westminster Bridge to the church
of St. Eustace and sing his very best there. In
the evening Mr. Smiles, always thoughtful and
considerate, and warm-hearted, treated him to
an omnibus ride to Westminster, and thought,
he said laughingly, that it would ' run to it ' on
the homeward route again; and Phil's heart
warmed to the young man as towards an elder
brother, and life would have been pleasant and
happy with him had it not been for the
thoughts of his aunt, patient and hopeful, and
always waiting for him in the upstairs room at
Broadbrook's.

The house is watched — you must not come
home yet,' she had written to say, forgetting, or
rather not guessing, that Mr. Miles's house was
watched as well, by men determined to have
this singing-bird, and seeing the way to make
it worth their while. Had Foxy Wharton been
captain of the forty thieves he could not have
been served more faithfully by the subordinates
about him, and two of them were even inside
St. Eustace's itself next Sunday evening, outwardly
devout, and inwardly watching and
VOL. I. F

plotting for the boy's capture. They sat in the
free seats, and Hastened to his singing, clear and
bell-like, and of surprising power ; they nudged
each other craftily as they noted the effect upon
many of the congregation to whom the chou* of
St. Eustace was the principal attraction, and
prayers and sermon only a secondary consideration,
if even of any consideration at all ; they
crept out of the church before the service was
quite finished and lay in ambush outside, in the
shadows of the vestry, trusting for the chance
which might present itself, and for which they
had planned. For which they had prayed too,
understanding such prayers as that, and
knowing nothing of the earnest supplications
they had listened to, in church that night, making
neither head nor tail of them.

It was by cruel chance that the vicar of St.
Eustace called Mr. Folkestone Miles back into
the vestry that evening, when the choir had
gone its various ways, and Phil was about leaving
with his friend.

I will not keep you a moment, Mr. Miles,'
Bait the vicar, blandly, and Mr. Miles, nodding

to Phil, and implying by that nod that he was
to wait for him outside, passed into the vestry
with the clergyman, and Philip went on, recking
not of danger by the way.

The vicar was not quite as good as his word,
and the minute became two, three, five, lengthened
even to ten before all had been explained
about a special service which was due on Friday
next. When Folkestone Miles was in the open
air at last it was lightening vividly, and through
his violet glasses he could see no sign of the
chorister. Phil had grown tired of waiting, he
thought, and had gone slowly in the direction
of Hercules Buildings, unmindful of the ride
homewards that had been promised ; and Folkestone
Miles stepped out, confident of overtaking
him before the Houses of Parliament
were reached.

But he failed to come up with him, or his
weak sight had not stood him in good stead, or
he had passed him, or the lightning, which was
very blue and vivid, had confused him on his
way. He was not nervous about Phil, even
when he found that he had reached home before

f2

the boy ; he was a sharp walker, and of course
had passed Phil, who was very lame just then —
it was only half-an-hour afterwards, three-quarters,
and then an hour, that there came to his
slow mind the suspicion of foul play.

CHAPTER VI.

DISAPPEARANCE.

Folkestone Miles sat up all that night waiting
and wishing for the coming of little Phil, but the
choir-boy was seen no more in Hercules Buildings,
Lambeth. He had vanished like a ghost —
leaving, ghost-like also, not a clue by which he
might be tracked. Those who had trapped him
had managed their nefarious business neatly,
and had vanished as completely ' into thin air '
as the boy whom they had captured. Over the
whole affair hung the black curtain, heavy and
thick and pall-like, and there was no drawing it
aside and seeing where Phil was. He was gone
and for good.

He came not back to the organist's home ; he

was seen no more by Aunt Bella who, pale, ill,
and patient, was sure every morning that she
should hear of him before nightfall, possibly see
him ; and thus buoyed up for a while her poor
vain hopes, though growing weaker every day
along with them. Folkestone Miles, restless
and excited, called twice a week to see her, to
ask if there were any news, to talk it over
downstairs with Mr. and Mrs. Broadbrook, and
speculate with them concerning the great
mystery, all three making wild guesses at the
truth.

He must be dead,' said Mr. Broadbrook on
one of those occasions ; ' he would have surely
found time to write, to let us know somehow
where he was. Depend upon it, sir, that boy is
dead.'

I don't think so,' remarked Mr. Miles.

Murdered probably. If ever I cut the hair of
a murderer for threepence I cut it that blessed
night he kicked up such a row here,' said the
barber.

It was not worth while to take all that
trouble to murder Phil,' said Mr. Miles.

Perhaps there were estates coming to him,'
suggested Mrs. Broadbrook, who had been
reading ' penny dreadful,' in large quantities,
and was a little weak in mind in consequence.

Yes, but who would have benefited by killing
Phil V said Mr. Broadbrook, critically.

The usurper,' was his better half's confident
reply.

Who's he — that father of his !' cried the
barber, with a disparaging elevation of his
nose. ' Well, he didn't look much like one tome;
although I must say I never saw a real
usurper to my knowledge. What's he like, Mr.
Miles?'

Mr. Miles found it extremely difficult to
describe ofi-hand an usurper's personal appearance
and said he did not know for certain. From
a histrionic point of view, he thought it was
something in black velvet with a point lace
collar.

< Well, the boy's murdered,' said Mr. Broad-brook,
firmly, * you see if he isn't. You wait.'

We shan't see — and we must wait,' replied
the organist, as he walked away thoughtfully.

And seeing nothing and waiting in vain
became the order of the day in Marsh AValk and
Hercules Buildings, and with never a gleam of
light to show the track through the mists. Mr.
Broadbrook's neighbours talked of it for a
time and then dismissed the subject ; the choirboys
wondered and wondered for a week or
two, and then almost forgot that Phil had ever
lived ; the chorister, a sceptical man, half
believed there had been an underhand plot to
smuggle Phil off to another church at an
advanced rate of wage ; and the vicar, still more
sceptical, was quite sure of that, for it was an
old trick ; the police laughed their heads
nearly off at the station-house, and could see
nothing alarming in a boy's going away with
his own father, and without the ceremony of a
formal farewell to a sleepy old aunt, and one or
two people who seemed to know very little about
him.

And so time drifted by, and the hot, close,
summer in Marsh Walk became the cooler
autumn which presently drifted into the mild,
wet winter for which that year was famous.

even in crowded Lambeth, where the difference
in the seasons is noted by the goods upon the
costers' barrows rather than by any changing
tints or fall of leaves, and the days which
draw in,' as the phrase runs, are only regulated
by the longer scores upon the dials of the gamesters.
And later in the winter Bella Wharton
died and was buried by the parish, and Mr.
and Mrs. Broadbrook officiated as chief
mourners, and shut up shop to do honour to a
lodger who had died very much in their debt,
and yet with whom these wonderful folk were
sorry to ,part. And later on still Mr. Broad-brook
got more deeply into debt himself, and
discovered that his landlord was a more
merciless creditor than he had been to Phil's
aunt ; for the brokers swooped down in earnest
upon him at last, and out went the barber, his
wife and family in a strange hurry, and were
seen no more in Marsh Walk or parts adjacent.
I wonder what's become of old Broadbrook,'
one or two people said at first — the landlord of
the * Jolly Gardeners,' who missed a good customer,
for one — and then the world spun round

and there were fresh faces in the crowd of
struggling men and women, and * Jones, Dealer
in Second-hand Wearing Apparel, and Ladies'
Wardrobes purchased,' was printed over the
premises, and announced in the windows where
Broadbrook's Rose Oil for the Nursery' had
offered its attractions to passers-by in vain.

To round off this portion of our little story
we may chronicle another change, although it
did not happen till late in the spring, when
there were wall-flowers on the barrows, and
green-peas could be got for sixpence a peck from
the costermonger, if one were inclined to put
faith in a measure the bottom of which was
pushed upwards when the peas were put in !
Mr. Folkestone Miles left the church at Westminster
' to better himself,' went in for a competition
for an organist's post at a fashionable
church further west, and got it, even to his own
astonishment, not being quite certain whether
he was a clever fellow or not, but inclined to
think at times, and with a due amount of
modesty, that he was not quite a fool. Hence
Hercules Buildings knew him no longer, and the

last of the characters of our story passed away
from Lambeth, and, unlike the rest of them,
began to prosper a little and to gather round
him by degrees various well-paying pupils in
the new neighbourhood in which he had pitched
his tent. So whilst some folk went down
others went up, in the see-saw fashion patent to
humanity.

CHAPTER VII.

THE MINSTRELS OF THE TYROL.

A CLEAR twelve months after the disappearance
of Phil Wharton, there was bright summer
weather down at the pleasant watering-place of
Tenby, in South Wales. The old town was
full of company ; in the memory of the oldest
inhabitant there had never been so prosperous
a season, and the north and south sands were
equally thronged with visitors amusing themselves,
or being amused, working hard at sand-digging,
cavern-exploring, fossil-hunting, energetic
bathing, and desperate donkey-riding, or
taking it very easily in lazy, happy groups of
loungers and sprawlers on the sands, or in the
Castle grounds, listening to the Tenby band, or

those itinerant musicians whose mission in reappeared
to be to take the bread out of the
mouths of the Tenby band by vigorous competition,
and who had been lured thither on this
occasion by the news of Tenby's doing well and
being very full of company — of Monmouth and
Cardiff folk, of Swansea swells, of the ' fat of
the land' from Birmingham, Manchester, and
Liverpool, of the families from London, with
time and money to spare for the long journey,
and for settling down afterwards, of the tourist
from everywhere with his clattering bicycle,
tricycle, sociable, or, better that'll, with his own
sturdy legs to carry him up or down fair mound
stiff path, or valley, where anything on
wheels would surely come to grief in this nub-ably
quarter of the kingdom.

Into this romantic old Welsh watering-place
there tramped one bright morning a band of
singers and players who styled themselves the
Minstrels of the Tyrol,' for no particular reason
that was apparent, one man being a Gordian,
another unmistakably French, and the rest as
thoroughly English as anyone could wish — unless

it was in a faint attempt at a costume
which might by a stretch of imagination be set
down as Tyrolese, and which consisted of
steeple-crowned hats, green cotton velvet
jackets and knee-breeches, and tricolour ribbons
dangling from their shoulders and knees, and
from the rims of their weather-beaten felt hats.

They were eight in number, one man not a
singing member of the corps, but a burly gentleman
who wandered about with a highly-polished
shell, which was presented to each
visitor who stopped to listen, and who, having
contributed to the expenses of management,
was rewarded with a bow so elaborate and
profound, and with a grin so wide and alligators,
that the suspicion that all this was a burlesque
of gratitude instinctively occur-ed to
the donor.

Nevertheless the * Minstrels of the Tyrol '
became popular favorites at Tenby, and were
rewarded by so many sixpences and shillings
that the rumour that they were coining money
began to circulate amongst the visitors. They
became the favourites of the place — as itinerants

will, tinder certain favourable conditions,
and with some talent to raise them above the
street standard of howling vagabonds — and
their entertainment on the sands became extensively
patronised, and was considered 'quite the
fashion ' to attend between the hours of twelve
and one.

These minstrels were clever in their way : the
Frenchman was an expert violinist, who played
on his instrument upside down, and fiddled away
with extraordinary rapidity and precision ; the
German was a flautist of ability, and a third man
worked the violoncello, less effectively perhaps,
but with a knowledge of time and tune that
kept him in accord with his contemporaries.
The remaining few were part-singers, and the
chief attraction of the company ; three voices
were a little above the average of men singing
out of doors for a living ; but the fourth voice
was of surprising sweetness and volume, a
remarkable boy soprano voice, that took listeners
off their guard and entranced them strangely.
It was a voice out of the common run indeed,
and led to innumerable inquiries of the man

wijjithe shell, who shrugged his broad shoulders
"and showed his big white teeth, and thanked
everybody for much advice and friendly suggestion,
and gave everybody as much information
as time would allow concerning his ' beetle son,'
speaking in the broken English of his native
Whitechapel; but imposing on a few folk, credulous
and unsuspicious.

Filippo Moriega was a clever boy — a good
boy — yes, he should be trained by great masters
soon some day — to be sure. That's what he
(Ludovic Moriega) was saving for — taking a
troupe round the country for — to make money
to give Filippo — Good bless him I — a musical
education at Rome. Indeed, they were making
their way to Rome now, the whole of them,'
Monsieur Moriega, senior, affirmed, as though
Rome was somewhere round the corner, and
South Wales was indubitably the nearest way
to it.

Filippo said very little himself, and it was
found difficult to say anything to him ; lie
remained always in the centre of the singers
and players, a thin pale-faced youth, with large

grey eyes and a very sad and thoughtful expression
in them — a youth who walked with a
crutch, and that with considerable difficulty, it
was observed.

What a pity he is a cripple,' said many a
sympathizer amongst the crowd which the
Minstrels of the Tyrol ' drew about them ; and
Has he been a cripple all his life V was often
the inquiry put to Monsieur Moriega, who
answered, ' Ya'as,' unless his questioner looked
medical, when he said, * No, sa'ar,' with equal
confidence, before he bowed himself from too
many questions which might become irksome
and inquisitorial. It was observed that none of
the minstrels cared for too much questioning :
they were in Tenby to sing and play, not to
give autobiographical sketches of their career,
and at times they were so haughty and reserved
that a few romantic minds had spread about the
notion that they were foreign noblemen in disguise,
Italian refugees or Neapolitan wreckage,
or a something or other wrapped in mystery,
although the maestro of the company was of the
full proportions of an English navvy, and looked

VOL. I. G

far more bulgy than aristocratic, in his green
cotton velvet small.

It was one hot August morning, when the
Minstrels of the Tyrol ' were playing and singing
to a large audience on the south sands, that
a lady and gentleman, attracted by the crowd
and by the part-singing which was going on
just then, left off walking hand-in-hand, in a
slightly silly and sentimental fashion, and strolled
towards the centre of attraction,

Something in your line, dear,' said the lady.

'Yes, my darling love, so it is,' replied the
gentleman.

The affectionate couple stood at the back of
the crowd and clasped hands together again,
then the gentleman who wore violet glasses on
his nose, and a straw hat encircled by a broad
blue ribbon on the extreme back of his head,
rose on tiptoe and endeavoured to peer over the
heads of the audience, and failing in his
manoeuvre, being short of stature, to gain a clear
view of the singers, began jumping about like a
sportive kangaroo.

'My dear Folkestone, whatever is it?' exclaimed

the lady, alarmed for the sanity of her brand-new
spouse and helpmate — not married more
than forty-eight hours to him either, and coming
all the way from Westminster Bridge Road,
where the wedding had been celebrated, to this
picturesque portion of South Wales to spend the
honeymoon.

What's the matter ? Oh, dear ! what is it ?
Is it a fish-bone ? Won t you tell me ?'

It's all right, Fanny ; it isn't a bone in my
throat — it's the voice — it's — it's that boy!' he
exclaimed, incoherently, and continuing to
jump.

In your throat — a boy ! Oh, Folkestone !
what do you mean V

It's Philip AVharton — you know — the missing
lad. I'll swear it is, by thunder !' exclaimed
the excited organist. ' Fanny, we must part !'

Oh, mercy !'

For a few minutes — perhaps for half-an-hour,
or till dinner-time — don't fret ; don't
stop me — please let go the pocket of my jacket,
Fanny, or I shall rip — I must know all the
truth !'

And with a sudden dive into the crowd, unprepared
for so unceremonious an attack in the rear
Folkestone Miles plunged his way into the front
rank, and stood glaring through his glasses at
the singers, deaf to the objurgations and protests
of several ladies and gentlemen, astonished,
shocked, and indignant at his rudeness, and
hurling ' Well-I'm-sure's ' and ' I-never-did's ' on
all sides at him. But he paid no heed to them
did not even hear them.

Yes, that was surely Philip Wharton I Little
Phil, of Marsh Walk — the lad who had been
spirited away from him, carried off twelvemonths
ago almost to the very day. But Phil
did not recognise him, although he stood exactly
in front of him, and Folkestone's glasses
should have been a landmark and reminiscence.
Folkestone could have run forward and shaken
hands with him — even have hugged him to his
breast in the joy of the discovery ; but a second
and wiser impulse warned him to be careful. If
it should be necessary to get Phil away from
them, if Phil was a prisoner and anxious to
escape, if he had not joined this band of singers

and players of his own free will — he, Folkestone
Miles, must not let any excitement betray him
to this crew. He would simply stand there
direct in front of Phil until he was recognised
by the lad. There would be plenty of time to
act afterwards, he thought.

But Phil did not recognize him. Gentlemen
m neutral-tinted glasses, blue, violet, or black,
were not uncommon in August by the seaside
when the sun's glare was powerful, and Phil
had got used to them now, although they had
made him start more than once in the grim,
early days of his strange wanderings. And the
present Folkestone Miles was so wholly unlike
the little, shabby, rusty black-frocked young
man by whose side he had trotted in the old
Lambeth days, that he could not associate the
organist of St. Eustace with a straw hat, a 'blazer'
jacket — red and green — a pair of baggy, flannel
trousers, and sand shoes of a dazzling yellow.
That was a festive figure, foreign to Hercules
Buildings and the life within fifty miles of it.
This was holiday time, and there had been no
holidays in Lambeth for Folkestone Miles anymore
than for Phil Wharton.

The boy glanced once at him from underneath
his broad felt brim, and went on with his
singing calmly and unconsciously, and the
thought that he might be mistaken crossed the
mind of the organist. Phil was not so tall, not
quite so pale and thin as that, and not a youth
scarcely able to put the tip of one foot to the
ground — the crutch was against him, and the
costume, and the place in which he was. But
that voice, thought Mr. Miles, with his ears attuned
to music very keenly, and with a memory
for voices that had music in them preternaturally
strong, was it possible he should be deceived ?
Phil's was an uncommon voice, too; he had had
strange dreams of what Phil's voice might turnout
one of these fine days if it were cared for
properly and duly trained; it had been, as a
soprano in a church choir, a remarkable voice ;
it was on these bright sands, and nth a sea-breeze
interfering with it, still more remarkable
that day.

Yes, it must be Phil ; but why did not Phil
recognise him as readily as he had recognised
Phil, thought Folkestone Miles, not taking into

account the extraordinary 'character' of his
tourist suit, and the complete disguise it was to
him. Presently an idea seized him ; he would
beat time with a copy of that day's Birmingham
Post, which he carried in his hand. He had a
demonstrative way of beating time, and the
choir-boys had often giggled at it, when he had
been called upon to act as deputy in the choir-master's
absence, and Phil had laughed too, or
sat and stared at him with wonder when he was
extra energetic, which had occurred more than
once in his lodgings in Hercules Buildings.

Folkestone Miles rolled up his newspaper, and
began, to the evident astonishment and disgust
of the Tyrolese; there was a little tittering
amongst the community around him ; ' a musical
enthusiast said one, and ' drunk so early in the
morning — dreadful I' was the verdict of the
charitable majority Ashen he had executed a
particular flourish with his extempore baton, and
stamped wildly upon the sand — sending a dense
shower of gritty particles over a basket of very
sticky tarts which a youth was purveying round
the inner circle — the boy, Filippo Moriega, or Phil

AVharton, turned suddenly very white, dropped
his crutch, and left ois singing.

It was only for an instant, but Mr. Miles knew
he had been recognized, although Phil was
strangely impassive the instant afterwards, and
went on singing very calmly, as though nothing
remarkable had occurred to disturb his equanimity.


Folkestone Miles left off beating time, put a
shilling into the shell which Signer Ludovic
IMoriega presented to him suddenly, with his
usual bow and broad grimace, and with an extra
keen look at him from head to foot, as at an
object of great interest. Folkestone backed
his way out of the crowd, and rejoined his
anxious wife, who was inclined to reproach
him, and to sob upon his shoulder in the light
of day.

I — I didn't think you would desert me like
this — and so soon too,' she cried.

My darling, you don't understand,' said
Folkestone Miles.

Oh ! why did I leave home V

My precious one — haven't I explained? Don't

you remember all about little Phil Wharton?' he
exclaimed.
'Phil who?'

Phil Wharton, of Marsh Walk — the choir-boy
!'

Yes — yes. I think 1 do. But is this — this
a time — to be running after dirty boys !'

My dear Fanny, we must save him. We —
they're going. Good gracious I' And away
darted the excitable organist again, as the
crowd separated, and the minstrels one by one
plodded across the deep sands towards the
High Street. The boy With the crutch was the
last of them, and Folkestone had increased his
space, to get to his side, and say a few words,
when the big fellow, like a shabby cotton velvet
brigand as he was, suddenly strode back and
took up his position on the right of his son,
clutching at Phil's arm, dragging it through his
own, and glancing back at Folkestone Miles,
who was stealthily approaching.

Who are you looking after?' lie asked.

Nobody.'

'Yes, you are. I know that man,' Foxy

growled in the ear of his offspring, ' and so do
you. So take care Avhat you're about, do you
hear ? or it will be the worse for you.'

CHAPTER VIII.

THE HAPPY PAIR.

Folkestone Miles did not intrude, after all
upon the society of Foxy Wharton and his son
that particular morning on which he had discovered
Phil. Discretion was the better part of
valour, he thought — the better part of a great
many things besides valour, if he Avere going to
act as Phil's champion or deliverer. Through
his violet glasses he perceived that the boy
thought so also — seemed even to warn him not
to speak, and as effectually, by the droop of his
shoulders and drag of his gait, as by the very
forbidding scowl which he had received from
Wharton senior.

flaming up his mind suddenly to a new and

distinct line of policy, Folkestone Miles marched
past them both at a smart pace, and went home,
thereby leaving, he hoped, some doubt in the
mind of Wharton pere whether there was anything
more in him than in the ordinary sea-side
lounger. He did not know, however, that Mr.
Wharton, one practice night, had followed him
and Phil from the church of St. Eustace, "Westminster,
to Hercules Buildings, taking stock of
him all the way, and remembering him always
from that time by his thin, pale face, his long-hair,
and the coloured glasses to his spectacles.
He had a fallacious idea that Phil's father had
never set eyes upon him before, and, therefore,
that he would be able to act presently with
considerable success.

Mr. Miles returned to his sea-side lodgings to
find Mrs. Miles in grief and great tribulation of
spirit. She had not settled down to married
life yet, and the vagaries — she could call them
nothing better than vagaries, she said — of mr.
Miles had very seriously disheartened her. It
was like absolute desertion to have Folkestone
flying all over Tenby after minstrels of the

Tyrol at a time when she had a right to expect
— even demand — his sole and undivided
attention.

It's — it's not a bit like a honeymoon,' she
cried behind her white pocket-handkerchief.
'I was never treated so in all my life. It's
dreadful I'

My precious !' he said, soothingly.

But ' my precious ' was not to be soothed too
quickly by endearing terms, and it was only by
appealing to her feelings, by telling the story
of Phil Wharton over again from beginning to
end, by gently and delicately reminding her
that they might have a dear child of their own
stolen away some day, and with no human soul
to help them find it ' ever and ever again,' that
the excitable young bride became interested
in the case, and thought that Folkestone might
be excused his eccentric conduct of the morning.

We will save him, Folkestone,' she said at
last, ' but we will save him together.'

Well, we'll try, at any rate,' answered the
bridegroom, though he did not quite see the
way to begin, not being blessed or cursed — which

is it? — with a particularly fertile imagination.

They must wait and watch, they both considered.
The Tyrolese would not, probably,
leave the town whilst business was brisk. Mr.
Wharton was strong on the point of law, and on
the point of possession, and it was difficult to
knows how to act until Folkestone had had a
little talk with Phil. Poor Phil ! he thought,
walking about with a crutch, and evidently a
cripple for life — poor Phil, a prisoner in bad
hands, and unable to escape from them ! ' By
Jove, he shall escape though !' cried the organist.

Folkestone Miles and his young wife made
many inquiries that day concerning the Tyrolese
; they found out that they were lodging in
the small house of a bibulous fisherman, down a
back street near the pier — ' all of a lump, like a
lot of pigs,' said their informant — and that they
were not particularly amicable amongst themselves
after business hours, and were heard
quarrelling and swearing and shouting long
after their more peaceful neighbours were in
bed and trying to sleep. Once the Frenchman
was heard crying * murder,' but as he

turned up on the sands in the morning, smiling
and gesticulating as nsnal, it was set down as a
little pleasantly on his part dining the previous
night. And once Mr. Moriega was heard striking
something or some one with a strap, and it
was thought it might be his little son, as he did
not sing the next day, and was at home with
toothache, ' poor little fellah,' the father explained,
with a deep sigh, to those who had missed
him and inquired after him.

The general opinion of the working-classes
of Tenby — those who knew the Tyrolese in
their hours of leisure — was that they were a bad
lot, and the sooner the town was rid of them,
the better. 'If the swells only knew what a
gang they were, they wouldn't pitch their
money at them quite so freely,' was the verdict
pronounced, but the swells could pitch away
their money, and the Tyrolese were surely prospering,
although there was nothing to show for
it particularly, except some straggling figures
reeling homewards late at night down the narrow,
shadowy street wherein they lurked.

This makes my blood boil, Fanny,' said the

organist at supper — in their smart first-floor
lodgings on the North Cliff — and flourishing his
knife and fork bravely above his head ; ' the boy
is kept a prisoner — treated badly — half-killed —
I'm sure of it.'

Yes, dear — but please don't shout so. They'll
hear you in the road.'

And perhaps they are watching us, my darling,
as we are watching them,' he said.

Oh ! don't say that, Folkestone, you make
me so dreadfully nervous. Hadn't we better
shut the windows?'

Fanny Miles left the supper-table at once and
approached the French windows, opening on to
a balcony, where this happy couple had intended
to sit lovingly and quietly day after day
and watch the great green, restless sea, and
the oyster boats sailing in and out with the
tides, and the white gulls scudding from cliff
to wave, and from wave to cliff again, and the
happy pleasure-seekers wandering below them
and not half so happy as they were. The
clock in the tower of the old church was
striking eleven as she stepped timidly on to the

balcony and peered doAvn into the dusky road.
They were Hviug at the upper end of the town,
and the place was very still and quiet at that
hour — the lapping of the sea upon the sands
and the soft murmuring of the summer wind
alone broke the stillness of that starlit night.
There was only a light here and there behind
the blinds of the houses in the terraces sloping
towards the pier — people Avere tired and ]had
gone to roost, and there was but one living soul
in the far distance — a primitive-looking policeman,
grey-bearded and bent a little askew, who
was toddling along in the middle of the road,
with his little cane in his hands like an antediluvian
' master.'

I had no idea it was so late said Fanny, * I
had no idea Yah /' she shrieked out, dashing
back, all legs and wings, into the drawing-room,
bringing the heart of Folkestone Miles
into his throat, and curdling every drop of blood
in his body. ' Mercy ! — save me ! — fire I —
thieves ! — help !' Then she fell into the arms of
her lord and husband, and hid her head upon
his manly waistcoat.

VOL. I. H

'My dear, what is it? Pray compose yourself
he entreated, ' how you've frightened me I
I've run the fork through my upper hp —
what is it ? Pray don't kick, my love ! what
can '

The balcony. Somebody creeping up it ! oh,
shut the windows !' she screamed ; ' for heaven's
sake lock the windows, Folkestone, we shall all
be murdered

No — no — wait a moment ! Don't shut me
out, oh ! don't shut me out,' cried a shrill voice,
and then Phil Wharton, hapless and hopeless, and
with his velvet jacket torn across the arm,
where he had encountered a nail in climbing up
the trelHs-work beneath the balcony, tumbled
into the room and ran panting and scared towards
his old friend.

CHAPTER IX.

A VERY STRANGE BOY.

Phil — my poor Phil,' exclaimed Folkestone,

sou have got away then. How did you get
here? Where's— the crutch?' he asked, after a
moment's hesitation.

I haven't got it. I don't want it,' exclaimed
Phil, speaking very homely. ' May I draw
down the blinds ? It's safer.'

Folkestone nodded, and Phil ran back and
pulled the blinds down before the windows.
Meanwhile Mrs. Miles had been deposited in an
ai-chair, and was slowly recovering from her
alarm.

To think you've got away,' said Folkestone,
shaking hands heartily with Phil, ' and now —
and now — what are we to do with you V

h2

I haven't got away yet,' cried the boy. *I
have only come to see you, Mr. Miles.'

But '

But let me speak, please, sir. I leaven
much time. I want to get back before they
miss me. Don't you see that V he said.

I don't see anything very plainly,' answered
the bewildered organist.

I am so glad to find you — to know you are
here and will help me presently. I am so glad !'
Phil exclaimed again ; ' it's the old times come
back to see you — the dear old times in Lambeth

when you and I ' and then a lump rose in

Phil's throat and he could not get on any
further.

Take it more quietly, boy. Sit down, there's
a good fellow, and let us understand the position,
and what is to be done. Where have you
been all this while V asked Folkestone. * What
have they been doing to you that you never
wrote to us, or sent any of us a line V

I wrote as soon as I could get the chance ;
there was no chance for months : and the letters
came back to the address I'd put upon them.

You had all gone away, my aunt, Mr. Broad-brook,
you. I wrote to all of you.'

'Ashen was that f

Six months ago — nearly.'

Yes,' said Folkestone Miles, thoughtfully,
we had all gone then.'

Your aunt '

Yes, yes, I know, sir. Don't tell me again.
She's dead,' he said, sorrowfully. ' They knew
that soon afterwards, and they told me, thinking
I should settle down amongst them, having
no one to care for and to fret after anymore.'


And why did you not write earlier?' asked
the young wife.

I'll tell you as soon as I've got my breath,
ma'am,' Phil replied, and Mr. Miles noticed that
he was still panting from his recent efforts
to approach them, and looking considerably
exhausted.

Folkestone poured him out a glass of ale,
which he sipped at and then set aside again.

It has struck eleven, hasn't it V he asked.

eyes.'

I must be back before twelve. Before lie*
he added, with a shudder, ' comes home.'

Your father,' said Mr. Miles, interrogatively.

Yes — my father,' he replied.

The wretch — the awful wretch,' cried Folkestone,
indignantly.

Yes, he is an awful wretch,' said Phil, with
grave deliberation, ' that is, everybody says so.
But we won't speak of him just now, please.
There isn't time.'

Well — well,' said the organist, ' it would take
a long time to reckon him up, I daresay. How
did you fall into his hands ? How did I manage
to miss you on that night, Phil ?'

I'll tell you in a moment, sir,' said Phil,
Hurriedly, *and then the whole story another
day when — when I'm safe. For,' he added,
lowering his voice to a whisper, as though there
might be eavesdroppers in that very house, * I
am not safe at present.'

I hope you are, boy.'

No, not yet,' he answered, sadly, ' it has not
come yet.'

What hasn't come V

The chance of getting away from them.
They would follow me — they would kill me.'

We'll see about that,' said the organist, with
a cheery laugh. ' Kill you, indeed !'

But the boy did not laugh in return, only
stared at the speaker with his great eyes.

They were waiting for me outside the church
that night,' said Phil, by way of explanation of
last year's disappearance. 'That's how they
got hold of me, although I struggled very hard.
There were two or three men, and there was a
cab ready to pitch me into, and to be driven
away with me. They were determined to have
me, Mr. Miles, and that's how it was done.
They hid me in a house in a street that seemed
somewhere near St. Eustace, for we weren't
long in getting there, and then they found my
leg was broken. You may remember, Mr. Miles,
it was not strong just then, and in my struggles
it snapped.'

Poor little chap,' said Folkestone, sympathetically.
* Here, take some more beer, do. And
the doctor — didn't the doctor '

They never sent for a doctor. That would

not have done. One of them had been a medical
student, and he set my leg, after a fashion.'

And crippled you for life V
Almost. Although,' he added, sinking his
voice to a whisper again, after the new habit he
had contracted with the wild beings amongst
whom his life had been lately spent, 'I am
not so bad as they believe. I don't want the
crutch, but I pretend I do, so that they shall
fancy, sir, I can't move without it ; and every
night they take the crutch away, and think I'm
safe.'

I see. That's pretty cunning for a young
one, that is,' said Mr. Miles, admiringly.

I have been amongst cunning people,'
answered the boy, frankly ; * and I haven't
improved. That Wasn't likely, was it V

Well, no.'

I have dropped awfully down. But I'll get
back again — I will, sir, if you'll help me,' cried
Phil.

Why, of course I'll help you.'

Thank you. 1 didn't know. Everybody has
seemed so much against me that I didn't know
how to trust in anybody.'

Poor fellow. Take some more beer.'

No, thank you,' said Phil ; ' I won't have anymore
of that, or I shall go home like father,
drinks' he added, with another visible shudder ;
and when he's drunk he's very dreadful. At his
worst then — always.'

I don't doubt it in the least,' said Folkestone
in reply.

For six months I never got a chance, night
or day, of wanting to anybody, of telling anybody,
ho^v I had been snared,' Phil Wharton
explained further. * When I was well enough
to leave my bed and limp about, they took me
away, and we went from town to town earning'
our living, as you see. My father never let me
out of his sight ; it is only lately he thinks I
have got used to him, and not likely to escape.
And I did not know where to escape to when
the letters came back and you were all gone —
every one of you ! I gave up then. I should
not have minded them killing me for trying to
find one friend ; I should have been glad enough
to die and get it over.'

And now you are going to live, and grow

famous, perhaps. For it's a wonderful voice,
Phil,' said the organist ; ' and something must
be done with it soon, instead of wearing and
tearing it all to pieces with those singing
scoundrels.'

That's what father says.'

Your father appears to have studied the
matter very deeply,' said Folkestone Miles,
caustically.

Yes, and he's proud of me, after his way,'
said Phil, to his listener's surprise. ' Sometimes
I think he even cares for me a bit — as a father
should, I mean. But,' with an odd little sigh.
I suppose that's all fancy.'

Most likely,' assented Mr. Miles.

Though he lost his voice when he was young,
he seems to know as much as you do about
music, Mr. Miles — and I haven't gone back in
that,' he added, with a hollow little laugh. ' It
would have been better for me if I had.'

'VVhyr

They would have turned me adrift then, I
think,' Phil answered; ' and I should have got
back to London, and found some of you.'

Perhaps you would.'

How's Mr. Broadbrook, and Mrs. Broadbrook,
and all the rest of them V he asked, with all a
boy's eagerness for news ; * you know, I daresay.'

They have gone away. I don't know what
has become of them,' was the reply.

And you — married V

Yes, and down here for my honeymoon,
Phil'

You're a— bit — better off than you were
then?' he inquired, with some delicate hesitation.

'Yes. I have a better church, and I have
five-and-twenty pupils.'

I am glad to hear it,' said Phil ; ' I wish I was
one of the pupils.'

So you shall be — if you will.'

Yes, presently — who knows,' cried Phil, with
his eyes sparkling at the prospect, and then becoming
full of thought again ; ' some of these
days, I hope.'

And now, what is to be done f asked Folkestone,
' will you stop here and defy them ? Shall
I ask the landlady to take care of you, to hide
you ? They'll never guess you're here.'

Ob, yes, they will ! They know who you
are, and they can easily find out, as I have,
where you're lodging. Father knows you very
well. He said he should probably cut my
throat if 1 had anything to say to you,' said the
boy, coolly.

Oh, good gracious !' exclaimed Mrs. Miles.

But he always talks like that ; that's his way,
ma'am,' said Phil, apologetically, on his sire's
behalf.

And a very nasty way of talking too. Folkestone,'
to her husband, 'he had better not go
back. What is the law about it V

Smothered if I know,' replied Folkestone,
rubbing his hair up the wrong way in his perplexity,
' and I don't much care. I'm going to
defy the law.'

There's a dear,' said Mrs. Miles, admiringly ;
I thought you would.'

'■ Yes, Phil, you had better stop. We could
set away in the morning.'

No, we couldn't,' said Phil, who seemed to
possess the most practical mind of the three,
'they would watch this house and watch the

station. That's why I have come — to ask you
to take no more notice of me yet awhile to
leave me with them just the same — to let me be
quite sure of the next step before 1 make it. In
the night like this I can come again, tomorrow
or the next night even, and tell you what I have
arranged.'

You talk as if you hadn't quite made up
your mind to get away,' said Folkestone,
regarding him for the first time somewhat
doubtfully.

I think I have ; oh ! yes, I'm sure I have.'

They treat you badly.'

Yes, they treat me badly, most of them,' he
added, with a reserve.

And life much longer with them means going
utterly to ruin.'

Yes, that's it,' assented Phil.

Then you must get away.'

Yes, I will get away,' said the boy, starting
to his feet, ' and you will help me. That's
arranged, unless '

Unless what V

Unless anything should happen. They might

find me out coming here. I might die ; there
are such lots of things to stop me, after all.
But,' he cried, * I am so glad I've seen you,
and found you well and happy. I am so very
glad. God bless you and this lady, sir ;
and thank you both for thinking of me. Goodbye.'


And, without a moment's further hesitation,
Phil shook hands with them, darted to the
window, drew up the blinds, and passed through
to the balcony, over which he climbed and disappeared.
Always very handy at climbing and
getting in and out of windows, this Phil
Wharton.

Husband and wife went to the balcony and
watched him speeding along in the shadow of
the houses, and looking very unlike a cripple at
that moment.

He's keeping something back,' said the
organist, ' he seems almost loth to leave them at
the last.'

Poor boy, he is confused''

I should not be surprised if he stops with
them, for some reason or other.'

Impossible.'

But it seemed as if Folkestone Miles was not
very far from the truth in his new and startling
surmise. At the same time the next night, when
the town was still and most folk seemed to have
locked up and gone to bed, Phil Wharton came
like a cat up the trellis-work again, and
through the window left open to receive him.
He came in looking very white and scared still.

I have altered my mind, sir,' he said ; ' don't
think the worst of me. But I'm not going to
leave them.'

Not going to leave them, Phil !'
No, sir. I can't.'

CHAPTER X.

THE BREAK UP OF THE MINSTRELS.

We can more easily and briefly explain the
mysterious behavior* of Master Phil Wharton by
looking in upon the home of the ' Minstrels of
the Tyrol' on the morning preceding Phil's
second visit to the Miles's. The minstrels were
seriously depressed, and yet nervous and excited
; there was trouble in the house of Wharton,
or in the house which they temporarily occupied,
and it was considered that Foxy Wharton was
not quite himself by a very long way indeed.
It might be even said that he was 'beside himself
with rage, being a man who took any little
ailment with great discomposure of mind and
spirit, and broke into much bad language under

any affliction with Which he might be visited.
If there was one thing more than another which
put him out completely, it was the fact that he
was not feeling as well as he could wish. And
he liked to feel well and strong, with a grand
capacity for eating and drinking — especially
drinking, which he always thought agreed With
him.

Yesterday he had not been first-rate — qualmish,
in fact, with shivers. And now all day he
had been troubled with a splitting headache,
and, possessing a large head, there was of course
more ache in it than there would have been in
people's heads of less abnormal development.
He had come home very drunk the night before
and quarrelled all round with the members of
his band, and knocked down the German for
screaming at him in a foreign language he did
not understand, and had thrown himself on the
floor to sleep in a somewhat excited and heated
condition. There he must have caught cold
and cramp, for he woke up with this headache,
and with pains in his joints and with no appetite,
and with most unpleasant swimming, and

VOL. I. I

a general inability to make use of his limbs — all
of which signs of bodily prostration he anathematized
freely, and raved over, and wondered
at.

Still he was determined to go out with the
minstrels as usual that morning. There was no
one w4iom he could trust to collect the money,
and he was not going to be robbed at his time
of life, just when a little more prosperity, and
an opportunity of drinking more freely, had
presented itself, thanks to a liberal public. But,
when he rose to put on his felt hat, he found a
difficulty in walking, and the first half dozen
steps into the street were accompanied by such
a formidable attack of ' staggers ' that he sat
down on the pavement to consider the question
afresh, and to look helplessly up at the seven
dusky faces looking down at him.

'Have any of you fellows been trying to
poison me V he asked, suspiciously. ' Have you,
Phiir

No. No one had been trying to poison Foxy
Wharton. No one had dreamed of such a thing.
The German, who had been knocked down last

night, thought it was not at all a bad idea, but
it had Dot suggested itself to him before.

I can't go any further,' he groaned ; ' help me
up, and take me in again.'

Shall 1 run for a doctor V asked Phil.

A doctor ! Mr. Foxy Wharton here expressed
his mind, firmly, strongly and most fully upon
doctors in general, declining their interference,
and threatening to kill, or gouge the eyes out
of the first medical practitioner who came to do
him any good, or even to so much as look at him.

Take him indoors, and let him rest ; he should
be better before the morning was over. He was
only a bit queer on his legs — spasms, perhaps, or
indigestion.

They helped him into the front parlour, and
put him on an old sofa there, which did duty asa
bed for five of them during the night, Phil and
the two foreigners sleeping in the room above,
when there was a chance of sleep, Phil's father
being fond of late hours, and cards, as Avell as
ardent spirits. . It had been a dispute over the
yards which had led to blows last night ; they
were at it when Phil had returned from the

I 2

organist's to his lodgings, and gone up to his
room via the zinc waterspout outside.

You chaps go and do your best without me.
And don't keep any of the money. I know
what it will come to pretty well,' he said, ' and
I'll look you up later on, I daresay.'

All right.'

And, hi ! — here — Phil will stop with me,'
roared forth Mr. Wharton, ' he shan't stir a step.*

A blank look of dismay settled on the countenances
of the itinerants.

We can't do without him. We shan't get
any money without him,' grumbled the spokesman
— a shadowy figure in our story whom we
have once seen cowering in the back seats of
the church of St. Eustace — an old friend of
Foxy's, and a man who spoke his mind at times
a prime mover in the capture of Phil Wharton
twelve months since.

I tell you he shan't go,' shouted Mr. Wharton,
' isn't that enough V

'You can trust him with us,' said the man,
persistently, ' we can see after him as well as
you. We're not likely to let him go, are we?'

'I'll keep an eye on him myself. He stops
here,' cried the father.

Very well, then we'll all stop,' was the obstinate
reply, and the musicians unpacked their instruments,
and pitched their felt hats into a
corner, and the German, with a strong want of
consideration for the headache of the manager,
began tuning up his double-bass.

Mr. Wharton looked at them indignantly and
then doubtfully, and finally, to their amazement,
when they had settled down, and taken out and
lighted their pipes, and filled the little room
with tobacco smoke, he burst into tears and
began to moan and gesticulate like a big child.

'Blest if he isn't going soft,' exclaimed a
minstrel ; ' what's the matter now, Foxy T

To be treated like thereafter all I've done
for you — you infernal vagabonds,' he cried,
wringing his hands, ' I won't stand it — I can't
stand it ! Phil, reach me something ofi* the
mantel-piece to throw at them. That flat iron
will do.'

Phil better not do anything so seemly,' muttered
the Frenchman.

Take him with you then — get out of the
place, let him run away and ruin us, as he means
to do. I know — I know all about it. Get out
all of you, before I go mad looking at your
cussed ugly faces,' he went on, whimpering and
raving, * just leave me to myself.'

The men rose, and prepared once more for
their exit. Phil went to his father's side.

I would rather stop with you,' he said.

Mr. AVharton scowled at him, and dried his
tears with the back of a huge dirty hand.

What's that for?'

You're ill, and not fit to be left,' explained
Phil, as he looked at him very thoughtfully.

What do you know about it ?'

And I'd much rather stop — oh ! so much
rather, if you'll let me,' pleaded his son.

Well — I'm blowed,' muttered Foxy Wharton.

He lay and considered this proposition, staring
hard at Phil until a fresh shivering fit seized
him, and his great white teeth rattled Eke
castanets.

Go — why don't you go ? Every one of you,'
he screamed at last, * don't you see the money

we're chucking away? Phil, you won't mn off
and leave usV

No — not now.'

Say, " wish you may die, if you do." '

Phil said it to please his suspicious parent,
but he still remained at the bedside and looked
imploringly at the others.

Leave me with him,' he said at last, ' he is
my father, and I have a right to stop.'

I tell you to get away,' said Mr. Wharton ;
I hate the sight of you.'

And Phil, at this paternal remark, got up and
departed with the minstrels forthwith. But he
could not sing that day ; his voice trembled and
was out of tune, and he thought in his heart he
was going to be ill like his father.

Something's the matter with the boy,'
thought the visitors, and the absence of the
big, bland Mr. Moriega was explained to a few
inquirers who were full of sympathy. Phil
looked round once for Mr. Miles and his wife,
but, true to their new line of policy not to look
conspicuous and arouse fresh suspicions, they
were not upon the sands, and presently, and

before the entertainment was over, Phil slipped
away and went back to the little cottage near
the pier.

Here he found his father much worse, and a
neighbour from next door attending upon him,
and endeavouring to pacify him. At sight of
Phil he was a little calmer, and the ruling
passion was strong in him for a moment again.

'What's the take this morning?' he inquired,
hoarsely.

Three pounds odd.'

'Where's the money ?' he asked ;' who's got
the money?'

Higgins.'

Higgins is a thief, and will stick to the lot if
we don't look after him.'

I don't think he will.'

'You did not run away, then,' he said, after a
long pause.

No.'

Why didn't you V

'I — I couldn't leave you like this,' replied
Phil, in a low voice.

Why not ?'

'I may go when you are strong and well
again, but J shouldn't like to slip off to-days
said Phil, thoughtfully. ' I don't know why,
except it seems so strange to leave you now.'

Foxy Wharton glared at his son, and tried to
speak again — this time failing and making a
miserable noise instead. Phil ran out of the
house, and on his own responsibility went in
search of a doctor, whom he brought back with
him, and who pronounced Mr. Wharton, alias
Moriega, in a very bad way indeed, although
extremely guarded in his opinion as to what
was the matter with the gentleman.

He recommended perfect quiet, and the withdrawal
of the minstrels to another lodging, and
Foxy AVharton was too ill to utter anything byway
of protest. Pie could just stretch his hand
out towards his son, and say, in a sad, piteous
tone, ^ Don't go away, Phil,' and that Alas his
last coherent phrase for a considerable period
of time. He was raving with brain-fever before
the day was over, and the news took an exaggerated
shape, as news will, now and then, and
the worthy souls of Tenby were scared the next

morning by the news that scarlet fever or smallpox,
or scarlet fever and small-pox combined,
had seized upon the ' Minstrels of the Tyrol,'
and heaven and the doctor only knew how many
of them were down in it. This alarming news
was circulated in the market-place on Saturday,
and detailed over shop counters and at street
corners, the result being that when the * Minstrels
of the Tyrol,' minus the Moriens, father
and son, appeared upon the sands, there was a
general stampede away from them, and they
were left to two empty bathing-machines, a
blind man, and a dog with a tin mug in his
mouth.

There was a hurried consultation as to ways
and means, and by the afternoon train the
minstrels hurried away to Milford, and were
fiddling and singing in the streets that evening
with but indifferent success. They would have
taken Phil away with them, but he refused to
go, and was deaf to all entreaties, threats, or
promises. The law was very clearly on his side
now, and, as the members of the company did
not see well how to break it with impunity,

they hastened away and were seen no more in
Tenby. Were seen never again, we may add
by Philip Wharton or his father.

CHAPTER XL

m GOOD HANDS.

Many clays passed before Mr. Wharton, better
known to the Welsh folk as Moriega, was conscious
enough to become aware that his band
of singers and players had vanished away from
him. When he came back to himself, or to his
senses, he was very strangely weak; and life
lay before him very strangely too, like a steep
np-hill track over a foggy moorland, and in
crossing which rugged way, so weak and faint
as he was, the odds were that he would die.

Phil thought he would die, though he had
never faced death before, or known anything of
the signs and shadows of it; the neighbours,
sympathetic in their rough, homely fashion,

were sure Mr. Moriega was not long for this
world ; the doctor, in his heart of hearts, had not
any hope of him. The fever had burned itself
out, but it had burned away the life of
the man too, and here was almost the end of it,
unless signs and tokens, neighbours' prophecies
and doctor's forebodings, were all equally
delusive.

The first sign of his better estate in one respect
was in his recognition of Phil sitting by
his bedside watching him attentively, with his
thill hands upon his knees.

• Have you been there long T he asked, in a
faint whisper.

Not very long,' was the reply.
Since the morning when I was taken ill V
he asked again.

Off and on — yes.'

For how long now V

Ten days or more.'

Good lor', you don't say so !' .

Then he put his hand up with a great effort
to his head, which he found as smooth and shines
a billiard ball. This was a new surprise, and

not having struggled out of his delirium a perfect
Christian, as people always do in very
proper books, he took a long breath for a good
swear, and got through most of it before he gave
over suddenly.

Don't go on like that now, father,' cried
Phil.

Because — why V

Because you mustnH.'

Oh ! mustn't I ? We'll see about— who the
blazes has been and shaved my head?' he asked,
indignantly, but very faintly still.

The doctor.'

I'll about kill him when I get round,' he
muttered, * see if I don't, the brute. What
business '

And then Mr. Wharton had to give up, being
entirely pumped out of breath for that occasion.

'You are to keep very quiet, father,' said
Phil, ' and to be kept very quiet.'

Mr. Wharton did not answer. He lay and
looked at his son steadily until his eyes closed
by degrees, and he passed away again into
dreamland.

Later on in the night he mustered up strength
to feel his head very carefully again, as if exceedingly
perplexed by its smoothness and
spherical conformation, and to mutter,

He'll pay for his larks presently. A pretty
game to be up to when a fellow couldn't help
himself. Phil!'

Yes, father.'

Where are they all V

Gone.'

Run away ? The lot of them V

Phil nodded.

'Why didn't your

Phil did not reply to this.

They asked you V

Phil nodded again.

Ah ! I think I see,' were the last words he
said that night.

But in the morning he saw more than that, as
men sick unto death do see at times, when the
great Hand draws the curtain aside. The doctor
came, and told him, after Phil had been sent
away upon some errand, all that Phil had done

to nurse and watch him, and help those who
nursed and watched along with him ; he spoke
of the unselfishness, even of the affection of the
boy, distressed and amazed at this man of
mighty strength and force reduced to such a
strait as this.

Do you think he's sorry, then V asked the
sick man, wonderingly.

I'm sure he is.'

It's not likely. About as sorry as you are
for nialdng me this infernal scarecrow of a
Chinaman. What did you go and '

There, there, you must take things very
calmly, Mr. Moriega. You must not excite
yourself in the least,' said the doctor, laying his
hand gently on the shoulder of his patient.

« How would you like 2/oitrug\y head shaved?'
muttered Wharton.

I should be glad, if it gave me a better
chance of life,' was the ready answer.

Foxy Wharton considered this ; then he said,
very sharply,

Has it given me any chance V

It was necessary. It '

Look here. Am I going to pull through, or
to die V

That is in God's hands, not mine.'

'What do yozi think r

A doctor does not care to be pressed for a
definite opinion as to the condition of his patient,
but the man seemed anxious to know the
exact truth, and there might be reasons why he
should.

I am afraid, my poor fellow,' he said, after
another moment's hesitation, ' that you will not
get over this.'

You know I shan't.'

No, I don't know,' said the doctor.

Foxy Wharton did not ask any more questions
; did not say much during the rest of the
day — only towards evening he made a sign, to
which the watchful Phil at once responded.

You want me, father. What is it V

'Ask that — organist chap — to come and see
me,^ he whispered. ' Look alive — I'm getting
precious — weak.'

Phil gave a frightened look at him, and darted
away. Half-an-hour afterwards, he and Folks

I. K

stone Miles, and a third figure, who stood in the
background, were in the room together.

'Who else have you brought with — you V the
weak man asked, feebly.

A minister,' said Phil. ' Mr. Miles thought
you would like to see him presently.'

1 — don't want any minister,' he answered,
with a hard laugh. ' What next V

Shall I send him away ? Ask him to come
to-morrow ? Tell him '

No. Let him be,' muttered wharton ; then he
turned to Folkestone Miles, who was looking at
him through his glasses very curiously.

You've been a friend to Phil,' he said ; ' do
you mind — my sa^dng — thanked 1'

I am glad to have your thanks.'

'He has — a wonderful — voice. Look after
him, will you?'

I will,' was the promise given here.

Thanked again. He's been in bad hands —
but it hasn't — spoilt the boy.'

'No.'

A smile — a very strange smile — lighted up the
broad, white face for an instant, as he whispered,
very faintly,

In good — hands — now !'

Philip Wharton is a great singer at the present
time — a rich man, it is said, and one who
makes good use of his riches, and turns not his
back upon old friends ; takes trouble even,
people say, to find out old friends and help
them in his way, as they helped him, in old
times, in theirs. There are a few who set him
down as a trifle too eccentric even for a popular
professional. He is bringing out an oratorio,
in which a Mr. Folkestone Miles is deeply interested,
and which Francis Poorer, a musical
critic of light and leading, and who writes
oratorios himself, says will fail, let Wharton try
all he may to force it down the throats of the
public, and take the principal tenor part in it, and
all that nonsense. But PhiHp Wharton says it
shall succeed, and slaps the back of Mr. Miles, —
who is his sole and permanent accompanyist at
all the concerts, and who is doing very well
indeed — and adds that he means it to be the
big hit of the season.

Yes — an eccentric man, Mr. Wharton. Ho

k2

walks all the way to the Westminster Bridge
Road to have his hair cut at Broadbrook's ' Hair
Cutting Saloon and Fashionable Emporium ' —
an establishment all plate-glass front, wax mummies
and ivory hair-brushes — and how Mr.
Broadbrook managed to start such a business
as that, all of a sudden too, no one in Lambeth,
aware of Mr. Broadbrook's antecedents, has ever
been able to make out.

Phil Wharton knows, and Folkestone Miles
can make a very tolerable guess.

MR. BIRD'S BEST UMBRELLA.

Rat-a-tat-a-tat-a-tat-a-tat-a-tat — Bang !
There was a pause, and a long enough pause to
give me the impression that I had been dreaming
of earthquakes, or of the bombardment of
the British Museum, or of a volcanic eruption in
Russell Square, to convince me even forcibly
that I must have been dreaming, as I sat up in
bed, and rubbed my eyes and listened. Then
Bang ! bang ! bang I — rat-a-tat-a-tat-a-tat-a-
tat-a-tat-a-tat — Bang ! Yes, there was somebody
evidently knocking at the street-door,
hanging by the street-door knocker, and throwing
his whole soul into the instrument— the
house was on fire perhaps, or we were wanted

next door at Brian's, or a fanatic had escaped
and was clamouring for admittance, strait-waistcoat
and all, or else the upstairs lodgers had
come back prematurely from their visit to Tunbridge,
and were anxious to get in out of the
rain, which was coming down with a vehemence
that was certainly startling. I could suiTtiise
nothing more at a moment's notice and at half-past
two in the morning.

We all slept very soundly in No. 10, Pross
Street, Prossiter Place, Russell Square,
Bloomsbury, for we worked very hard at No.
10, and the house was a large one. It was a
house of many lodgers— parlour-floor, first-floor,
and second-floor — and all comfortably let, and
those lodgers who were at home were all fast
asleep, or else waiting for me, the poor, weakly
proprietor of the establishment (Jane Neildd, at
your service, gentle reader, age twenty-two, and
an orphan with an establishment on her mind, and
a living to get out of the establishment), to call
to the servants (Bridget, able-bodied, ' general,'
aged forty, and a frightful temper, and Sarah,
aged thirteen, child with a chronic cold and a

red nose, but handy as a help to Bridget) to getup
and see what "was the matter at No. 10, or
with the party outside No. 10 who was * kicking
up such a deuce of a row.'

That was the way it was put at last by
Captain Choppers, my drawing-room floor, an
irritable old gentleman — not to say violent when,
roused — who came out on the landing at last
in an attire which Bridget told me afterwards
was far from decorous, and began bawling
vociferously up the staircase the names of each
of my maids in turn, concluding with my own
name in a shriek of sheer despair.

Miss Neildd — here, I say — is everybody dead ?
Miss N-e-e-e-ild !'

'Bless my soul, captain, what is it now?' I
cried, through the crack in my door.

'Don't you hear that infernal noise downstairs,
madam ? AVho the deuce is it at this
time of night, who . the — ivhat do you say,
madam?'

I'm going to open the window, and inquire,
unless you '

It's no business of mine. Miss Neildd,' bawled

the captain. ' I don't expect anybody — I'm not
going into the drawing-room at this time of
night, with my cold. I'm disturbed enough, as
it is, through your being all so diabolically deaf.
I shall leave this day week, ma'am. There.'

And slam went the back drawing-room door,
and crick-crack went the key in the irascible
captain's lock. I was in my dressing-room, with a
flannel garment, which 1 take the liberty here of
calling a ' muffler,' wrapped round my head and
shoulders; and, as 1 went towards the T\andow,
trembling, I must say, in every hmb, the knocking
was repeated for the third time, and with
a threefold vigour, born of the delay and irritation
at the gross want of attention to past
summonses.

I waited till there was silence again, or nearly
silence — for I could distinctly hear Captain Choppers
loading all his firearms — and then opened
the window, and peered down into the damp,
shiny street, which the wind and rain had all to
themselves, with the exception of a dark figure
on my top step, whose hat, I could see, was as
shiny as the pavement.

What is it V I inquired ; but the wind whisked
my voice into Museum Street, and I had to
repeat the inquiry in a shrill falsetto. The
man below paused with his hand to the knocker
again — for he was just going to begin afresh —
listened, and then ran down the steps and stood
on the edge of the kerbstone, with his hands
behind him, looking up at me at last. I could
make nothing of him in the darkness from my
point of view.

What do you want, sir V I asked, now that I
had secured the attention of this individual.
What are jow making such a noise for, at this
time of night V

I'm very sorry to disturb you, lady '

So it seems,' I said, acrimoniously ; but he
did not hear me, and perhaps it was as well he
did not. I have not a reputation for being
severe in my remarks, but then this was an
exceptional proceeding, and deserved rebuke.

The fact is, madam, the wind has blown my
umbrella clean out of my hand into your area.
I would not mind so much,' he condescended to
explain still further, at the top of his voice, 'but

it's an umbrella I set great store by. Besides,
it's raining tremendously.'

I really cannot come down at this hour and
get your umbrella,' I said, severely ; ' you must
call tomorrow for it.'

'Isn't there anyone in the house — any man —
who can get it V

The house is locked up for the night.'

It's such a very deep area, or I would drop
over and get it myself — but then I don't see
how to get out again,' he said.

I can't help you, sir ; I am very sorry,' I
replied, ' but I can't go down to-night for it.'

I should be a brute to ask you, ma'am,' he
said, politely now ; and here I could see he
raised his hat to me ; ' of course I could not tell
who was in the house, or whether it might not
be easy to get my umbrella — which I really
value very much, I assure you ; it's an umbrella
which —but I am very sorry to have disturbed
you. I will call in the morning — thank you,
good-night.'

And away the gentleman strode, turning up
the collar of his coat above his ears as he went

on clown the street. I closed the window, I
set my 'muster' aside, and in another moment
I should have been in my humble couch again,
when Rat-a-tat- a-tat-a-tat-a-tat-a-tat-a-tat-a- tat
Bang ! once more aroused the echoes of the
neighbourhood, but brought no policeman to
the rescue, or any anxious inquirers to the
windows, except myself, who, once more en-wrapped,
and this time trembling with indignation,
was a minute afterwards in my old
position facing the dangers and inconveniences
of the gale, and looking down once more at the
figure behove me, standing in his old position on
the brink of the deep gutter in the roadway.

'I beg your pardon again very much, I am
awfully sorry to be such a nuisance, but I really
don't know Vv^here I am,' he cried, rattling on
with great volubility. ' I haven't the least idea,
and the streets are all alike, and I am quite a
stranger to this part of the world, and I am
afraid 1 shan't know this house from any other
in the daylight. Might I just trouble you for
the address?'
• ' Prossiter Street,' I called down to him.

I thank yuii very much. Washington Street

Prossiter Street,' I screamed.

Prossiter — a thousand thanks and apologies.
And what number, ma'am, may I ask V

'No. 10.'

I am very much obliged to you,' he bawled
forth, ' I am exceedingly indebted ; I would not
have troubled you in this way if the umbrella
had not been '

But I would not listen to any further explanation
; he had already said that he set great
store by the umbrella, and I did not want to
hear that fact again with the rain coming down
like a waterspout, and the wind blowing every
way at once. I closed the window summarily
and cut short his volubility, and the instant
afterwards I heard him running along towards
New Oxford Street as if to make up for lost
time, or to overtake a passing cab of which he
had probably caught sight.

It was some time before I could get to sleep
after so lengthy a discussion under such peculiar
circumstances. I was annoyed at the man's
pertinacity concerning his trumpery umbrella,

his indifference to time, and the personal inconvenience
to which he exposed people by his-unseasonable
request, and I lay in considerable
fear of his third return and another series of
questions at the top of his lungs. But he came
not again, and I dropped off to sleep at last,
and was troubled by dreams of tempests, and
tornadoes, and white squalls carrying away
whole grosses of umbrellas, till Sarah knocked
at the panels of my door with her customary
information that it was half-past six o'clock.

1 was perforce an early riser. There was a
great deal to superintend, and my parlour-floor
was a gentleman connected with the railway
goods traffic department, who was always getting
up early and going out to business and
letting himself in again with his latch-key about
seven in the morning, when he expected breakfast
ready, and ate it walking about the room,
as a rule, preparatory to running away again in
hot haste. I should have considered Mr. Goode
an irritable lodger if it had not been for the
angelic contrast that he afforded to Captain
Choppers. As it was, he seemed only a little

bit fussy and precise, which was attributable
chiefly to his lot in life. Mr. Goode was a
widower with two sons at boarding-school, and
if those boys had lived and died at boarding-school,
instead of coming home twice a year
for the mondays, I think Bridget and Sarah
would have rejoiced exceedingly.

I remember Mr. Goode asked Sarah that
morning if he could speak with Miss Neildd
before he left, and I went upstairs at once to
see him. He was walking about with his mouth
full and a slice of bread-and butter in his hand.

'That was a dreadful noise last night. Miss
Neildd,' he began ; ' 1 couldn't get a wink of
sleep. The captain, I suppose, again '{ I must
certainly ask you in ray name to present my
compliments to him, and '

It was not Captain Choppers.'

Indeed. No. Well, I thought I heard his
voice,' said Mr. Goode, very much disappointed.

There was no ingenuousness between Mr.
Goode and Captain Choppers — I may say even
that there were times when they hated and
loathed each other.

He's a beggarly upstart civilian, madam,' the
captain would roar in excited moments ; and
He a captain !' Mr. Goode would say with
withering contempt. 'Captain of a penny
steamboat, perhaps, nothing more.'

But to my strange story.

*A gentleman dropped his umbrella down
the area and knocked me up for it,' I explained,
with a little acrimonious emphasis.

Well, of all the confounded impertinence !'
exclaimed Mr. Goode; *1 should like to treat
that party to a bit of my mind. You never got
up and gave it to him.'

'No, I did not.'

'I am glad to hear that. For you must take
care of yourself, Miss Neildd, and keep strong.
You are not looking well,' he said, regarding me
with his head on one side as if he had a troublesome
wen on the other which he was anxious to
keep clear of the edge of his shirt-collar, * upon
my word you are not. You are pale and fragile-looking.
A little change at the seaside now
would do you a world of good.'

Yes, I daresay it would.'

VOL. I. L

This large house is a trial to you — and that
captain, with his absurd fancies and his ridiculous
tempers, would worry the life out of a saint
and you are really looking extremely pale
this morning. And — good gracious 1 had no
idea it was so late !'

Mr. Goode swallowed the last portion of his
bread-and-butter whole, and dashed like a
harlequin out of the front door. When he had
gone I surveyed myself in his parlour glass and
wondered if I was looking very ill, or whether,
being a dismal man, he was trying to frighten
me, and I arrived at the conclusion I was looking
about the same as usual, ' a prim, pale, pert
little puss,' as my dear old dad called me once,
when I was arguing with him on the housekeeping
expenses, and how the weekly money
would never hold out if he would continually
ask the lodgers into supper and a game at cribbage
afterwards.

Poor dad, he died next year, and left me sole
proprietor of the lease and furniture of the
house in Prossiter Street, and there where no late
suppers and cribbage any more. I was seventeen

when he died, and I had had five years'
charge of No. 10 since — ' getting quite an old
maid, Lily Brian, who lived next door, said ; but
then Lily was four years younger than I, and
assumed upon her youth, as girls will. A nice
girl was Lily Brian, and my one friend and confidante,
but perhaps too fond of laughing at
everything, although that showed she was
happy and had a keen sense of humour and a
fine set of teeth.

Well, perhaps I incas a trifle paler, was my
second conclusion after the first five minutes,
and with a tinge of redness — a mere tinge —
about the nose, just as if I was * breeding a
cold,' as Bridget put it. And this was not
remarkable, considering last night's experiences,
and sure enough the cold was bred before my
early dinner-hour, when the sneezing stage had
set in with considerable force. This reminded
me once more of the umbrella which had been
dropped into the area last night, and I asked
Bridget to bring it to me.

The what, i'm V asked Bridget, with a wild
stare.

l2

The umbrella.'

Umbrella, and down our airy, did ye say,
i'm ? There's not a scrap of umbrella down
our airy. I've been in and out twenty times,
and must have seen it," continued Bridget.

Bridget, there must be an umbrella,' I said
go and see.'

Bridget departed and returned with the
information that there was no umbrella in the
area, and then I went and looked for myself,
and, as it was still drizzling with rain, I caught
another cold on the top of the first one, and
was at fever heat ere twenty-four hours had
ensued. But before then the gentleman had
called for his property, and I had met face to
face the individual who had rendered last night
hideous.

He came at three in the afternoon, sending
in his card by way of preliminary announcement
that he had arrived. I did not associate
him with the umbrella — indeed, I was feeling-drowsy
and ' out of sorts,' with pains at the
back of my head, when a huge glazed card was
presented to me bearing the inscription in large

fancy letters of ' Geoffry Bird, Carver and
Gilder and Picture-Frame Maker, 967, Boswell
Road, Islington, N.'

'I don't want any picture-frames, Sarah,' I
said to my small help, wearily.

It's the gentleman about his umbrella, mum,'
said Sarah.

Good Heavens I Oh, indeed. Well, ask
him to step in, then.'

My sitting-room was a small apartment at
the end of the long passage, the only little room
I had to myself and my day-dreams — yes, my
day-dreams I — when the house was full, which it
had been all these years, for they were the
same lodgers who had lived with us in father's
time — odd, inconsiderate, queer-tempered lodgers
enough, but faithful to my house, and keeping
an old promise to my father, too, * to stand by
the little woman a bit when he was gone.'

Mr. Bird was ushered into my presence, and
he came in with a low bow and with a trifle too
much of a smile to wholly please me, although
it suggested itself to me somewhat quaintly
that he would not have much to smile at presently.

Mr. Bird was a slim and somewhat
short young man who wore his black hair long
enough for a violinist, and had upon the smallest
of hands the reddest and most prominent of
knuckles. He was rather a good-looking young
man, with brown eyes and black bushy eyebrows,
and with a habit of shaking his head suddenly,
as if to get the hair back from his forehead, or
as if he had just come up out of water. He was
fairly well dressed, might have passed even fora
gentleman if it had not been for his red
knuckles and that very obtrusive smile.

Good afternoon. Miss Neildd — for 1 understand
your name is Neild/ he began ; ' 1 am very
sorry for the third time in my life to be such
a complete nuisance to you. But I think I
am in the right this time, being here by invitation.'


Yes; I asked you to call at a more seasonable
hour, I remember,' I replied, ' but '

'And I owe you no end of apologies,' he
added, ' for the noise I made last night. I was
in too much of a hurry — I am naturally impulsive,
in fact — and when the wind caught my

umbrella, and blew it clean out of my hands
into your area, my first impulse was to run up
the steps and knock.'

Yes, 1 heard you knock,' I said, quietly.

No, I'm sure you didn't,' he said, flatly contradicting
me here ; * you couldn't have heard
me the first time, for I waited a reasonable
period before I knocked again. It was a tremendous
while to wait with a fellow drenched
to the skin all the time. Bj George, I was
never out in such a rain. I shall catch a nice
cold, I am afraid. You have a bad cold, young-lady?'


I caught cold last night.'

Not — not at that window T

Yes, at that window.'

Oh, come, I am awfully sorry for that,' Mr.
Bird cried, ' I didn't think of that. I thought
some gentleman, or servant, or porter might be
up, for there was a light burning over the hall
door, and it wouldn't be a great deal of trouble
and save my getting wet through. Why, I
would much rather have lost my umbrella altogether
than have given yoii cold, although it's an

umbrella which I would not take twenty pounds
for —no, nor fifty pounds either.'

Is it a very valuable umbrella V

Oh no, not at all ; but, as you know now, it's
my best umbrella in every sense of the word,' he
said, laughing, ' my very best umbrella, don't
you see V

But I did not see ; neither the application nor
the umbrella was apparent to me, and my heart
quite sank at the news which I had to impart to
him. The man was so entrapped in his umbrella
— speaking figuratively — that I felt it was
necessary to break the news gently.

I'm sorry to say I don't see I replied, ' for
the fact is '

Yes, he was impulsive, and dashed to conclusions
; and the smile did leave his face as suddenly
and completely as if somebody had pulled
it away by a string, and a settled look of horror,
and for an instant open-mouthed idiocy, took its
place.

The fact is ' he repeated, very slowly at

last ; ' go on, please.'

That there 'seas no umbrella down our area
at all;

Oh ! that won't do,' he exclaimed, so abruptly
and rudely that I felt the colour coming up
all over me, * that won't do at any price.'

I don't know what you mean by any price,
sir,' I said, drawing myself up to my full height,
as the novelists say — and that height was exactly
live feet three inches and a half when fully
drawn and a little bit on tiptoe — ' but you must
take my word, sir, that I haven't set eyes on
your umbrella.'

No, Miss Neildd, I don't suppose you have,'
he said, very quickly ; ' don't think that I think
that you think — that — that — why, of" course I
don't,' he said, tumbling into another sentence
as the first one became hopelessly involved,
and it's not at all likely ; but it went down
your area — 1 was perfectly sober — and the servants
must have seen it in the morning. Ma' I
ask the servants V

I have asked them.'

'Isn't there a page-boy, or somebody who
comes early to clean something ?'

^ No.'

Who is the first to go into that area in the

morning, Miss Neildd?' he inquired — * somebody
for coals, I suppose?'

Bridget or Sarah, certainly.'

I should very much like to see Bridget and
Sarah,' he suggested, * if you would not object

You must be content with my word, sir, that
your umbrella is not on the premises,' I said,
still loftily ; ' I cannot have my servants subjected
to a cross-examination on this question. I
have abbacy made every inquiry.'

And they tell you they have not seen my
umbrella?'

'They-do.'

And you believe them V

Certainly.'

« Well, 1 don't — and that's plain speaking,' he
said, frankly.

I'm aware of that.'

Because, you see, it is quite impossible, unless
there's anybody else in the house who gets
up earlier than the servants. Is there anybody
else V he asked.

Yes, there's a gentleman who lodges in my
front parlours, who leaves very early, but '

'That's the man. Where is he?' cried Mr.
Bird, with a frantic dash in a near direction of
suspicion, ' 1 should like to see him.'

He's a gentleman holding a high position on
the railway, and is not at all likely to confiscate
property that does not belong to him,' 1 said.

I don't say he has confiscated it,' answered
Mr. Bird, less brusquely, 'but he may have
seen it this morning, and put it aside for further
inquiries.'

Mr. Goode is not in the habit of going into
my area,' I said ; ' I don't believe he has been in
the area in the whole course of his life.'

'Not before this morning, Miss Neildd — very
likely not, having nothing to go for, as it were.
But when he caught sight of an umbrella — and a
very peculiar umbrella — lying on the wet stones,
I haven't the slightest doubt '

He could not get into the area, sir,' I said ;
Bridget takes up the key with her every night,
and, besides, I told him about the umbrella this
morning.'

What did he say to that V

'He said it was like your impertinence —

confounded impertinence," I may say were the
actual words used,' I answered ; ' to make such
a noise in the middle of the night, and he should
like to give you a piece of his mind.'

Oh ! he said that, did he V he remarked,
biting his finger-nails almost savagely.

Yes.'

Then he's the man who's got my umbrella,'
he cried ; ' I see it all now. He's keeping it
back out of spite I'

Mr. Bird, this is absolutely unendurable.'

I suppose he was the fellow bellowing about
the house like a bull last night, trying to make
somebody understand that I was knocking. I
heard him.'

No, he was not the fellow I replied, severely
; ' that was Captain Choppers.'

Does Captain Choppers get up early V

No, he doesn't, he's a very late riser indeed ;
I believe he's in bed now.'

That's his artfulness,' said the suspicious individual,
*just to make you stingy '

But I could not allow him to proceed any
further. I was fairly roused by this stranger's

disparaging reflections. I rose, looked steadily
and gravely at him, and said —

This interview is at an end, Mr. Bird. These
gentlemen are my lodgers — I might say almost
my friends — and I cannot listen to yom cruel
and uncalled-for remarks against their common
honesty.'

Common honesty it may be, Miss Neildd,' he
replied ; * but you must allow there is very
uncommon dishonesty somewhere in your
establishment.'

1 mil allow nothing.'

1 don't mean I want you to allow me anything
for the loss of my umbrella,' he said,
hurriedly. ^ Pray don't understand that to h&
my wish.'

Of course not. The idea !'

That's all right then ; very likely I am a little
put out — rude, in fact,' he added, apologetically
for I'm not a lady's man, and don't know anything
about ladies ; but, as I am quite prepared
to take my oath the umbrella did go down your
area, it's rather aggravating to be told you don't
believe a word I say.'

I never said that,' I answered.

I shall find it all out my own way, I daresay ;
I have got a habit of sifting to the bottom of
things, they tell me — but I will not trouble you
any more about it, Miss Neildd. If I have been
a bit rough he said, ' I'll ask you to forgive me,
and to believe I don't think for an instant yon
know anything about it. Heaven forbid, with
such a nice look as you've got '

*Sir

I beg pardon. Don't mind me ; I'm bothered,'
he ran on, with extraordinary volubility,
and this umbrella was my old father's last
present — just three days before he died — when
he was given up, and one would have thought
he had had something more serious to consider
than buying me an umbrella for my birthday.
He died on my birthday, too, which is another
odd part of the story,' he ran on ; ' but there,
good-day, madam, I am bothering you. I wish
your cold better — good-day.'

And away marched Mr. GeofFry Bird out of
my room, and down the long passage to
the street-door, swinging his arms wildly to

and fro. He jumped the whole flight of steps
into the street, and was gone, as I thought, for
good.

The next day I was very ill indeed — too ill
to rise. I had caught cold at the open window
and in the damp night air, and it had become
absolutely necessary to send for the doctor, and
to make what I always considered was too
much of a fuss over me. Lily Brian told me a
week afterwards, when I was able to sit up for
the first time in my room, that I had been in a
critical state, and there had been one night
when everybody was anxious and excited, and
even Captain Choppers walked continuously up
and down the stairs for two hours and a half,
and said, ' Poor girl, poor girl,' and had a secret
conference with Mr. Goode as to the advisability
of having a physician in the morning, at
their mutual expense and ' say nothing about
it, sir, to anyone.' But I was better that next
morning : I changed for the better with the
summer weather which came in, bright, and
fine, and hot, and suggested holidays out of
town and by the great green sea for the lucky

folk ^vho could afford to spend their money,
Lily Brian and her mother and father, and
two gawky brothers whom I did not like very
much, and thirteen small members of the family,
were all going out of town, and ' Why not come
with usT Lily had said, kindly.

My answer was a very old one, and very
natural, and very truthful too.

Because 1 cannot afford it, Lily.'

Oh, bother the money,' said Lily.

That's what I often say myself.'

'It shall cost you next to nothing — hardly
anything,' Lily suggested. ' Papa says you
will only have to pay for a room somewhere,
and you can board with us, and oh, dear, it will
be awfully jolly!'

It's very kind of your papa, and — and I'll
think of it, Lily, at any rate.'

And make up your mind and say " yes," '
cried Lily — ' won't you, Jane V

I don't know.'

That fright of a captain's going somewhere,
I know,' Lily said, ' and Mr. Goode has got a
free pass down the line, you tell me, and he's

sure to go into the country with so Httle to pay
for it : it's just like him. And do think of it,
Jane, there's a love !'

I did think of it. Thought of Mr. Brian's
large family, eighteen of them altogether, and
whether it was possible I could intrude gracefully
upon them. Mr. Brian had retired from a
cocoa-nut fibre and street-door mat business in
the Tottenham Court Road, and was pretty well
off, with only a slight necessity for letting his
drawing-room floor. He was evidently not a
rich man, and there were a few struggles to
keep up an appearance,' although he went out
of town with his family for a month every
summer, by express desire of Mrs. Brian, who
required change every August, and regularly
sallied forth, en famille, from her large establishment
in Prossiter Street to a house down a
back slum in High Street, Margate, where the
rooms were small, and the children were heaped
together sardine fashion, and now and then
came back with ' something catching,' as a
wind-up to the season's enjoyment.

And this particular August I was asked to
VOL. I. M

join them. There was ths sea, aud ' You must
take a Httle change,' said the doctor, and Lily
Brian was very pressing, and Captain Choppers
had talked of going away for a week or two,
and the boys Goode were coming home for the
holidays, and I, Jane Neildd, was able to pay —
and would insist upon paying — my fair share
for board with the Brianss, having my little
room out of the house, too, for that peace and
quietness which is not always found in large
families. Yes, 1 would go down to Margate
when I was strong — when I was well enough
to bear the fatigue of the journey.

This was a promise on the day the Brianss,
with much formality of departure, left town for
the season, and I made up my mind to get welland
strong as soon as possible, and join them.
When I was downstairs again in my little back
room there was a great surprise awaiting me.
Nailed against the wall, under my father's
cabinet-sized photograph, was a brand-new
ornament — a little carving in oak of a dead
bird hanging by its claws head downwards, and
with every feather wonderfully delineated. I

stared at it with intense astonishment, and
Bridget stood in the background with a grin
on her face from ear to ear.

Where did this come from ? Good gracious,
how beautiful ! how — well, I never did !'

My thoughts flashed to Mr. Goode, for he was
liberal at times, and grateful for any little attentions
in his widowhood's estate in the shape of
darning socks or re-establishing the security of
buttons ; but the truth soon came out, and then
I was more astonished than ever.

If you please, i'm, its the young man who
lost his umbrella,' explained Bridget, with a
loud guffaw at last and a violent stamping of
both her big Irish feet, like an excitable person
^vith a bone in her throat.

'What!'

'Yes, i'm,' continued Bridget; 'and I was
to say nothing about it to anybody but you —
and not till you were downstairs again — because
he wouldn't have you worried about
anything, he said, not for worlds.'

'He said all that?'

Yes, i'm.'

.m2

But, bless the man,' I exclaimed, * what has
he left this here for V

It's — it's a prisent, i'm, I'm thinking.'

A present to me, and from that impertinent
being !' 1 said ; * I'll see about his present presently.
When did he come V

He's been here every day, i'm.'

Every day?'

Twice a day,' Bridget replied. ' And the day
you were so ill he came three times, to make
sure the doctors weren't killing you.'

It's very extraordinary.'

He is 'strongly, i'm,' asserted Bridget,
sure, and there's not much doubt of it. The
way he axed me and badgered me about that
umbrella, i'm, every day after you were took
ill, you'd have thought he was a judge and jury
rolled into one — and Sarah, too, poor critter.'

I never heard of such behaviour in my
life.'

Right ye are, Miss Neildd, as far as that goes ;
but when Sarah bust out crying at last he was
very sorry and gave her 'half-a-crown ; and so he
did me, i'm, like a real gentleman, when I

thought it was quite time I cried too, when
'arf-crowns were flying about like that.'

'That'll do, Bridget,' I said— for Bridget
when loquacious was familiar — 'when was he
here last V

This morning.'

Indeed.'

And I told him you were quite come round,
and he said, '• That's a good job," and went
away.'

Do you think he'll return V

I don't think so, m'm,for he said, " Good bye,
Bridget; mind you take care of her," as he
walked himself off.'

Did he say anything else V

N — no, i'm, I don't seem to recollect '

Answer me truthfully, Bridget ; what else did
he say V

Sorra a word else, except he hoped Margate
Avould do you a power of good.'

How did he know I was going to Margate V
I inquired.

That's more nor mortal can say, i'm. He
knows a great deal more about other people's

affairs than he ought. He interferes like, doesn't
he ? He's a terrible curious young man.'

Bridget, you have something more to tell me,
I'm sure you have.'

Oh ! Miss Neildd.'

How dare you deceive me ! how dare '

Mercy on us, my dear mistress, don't go and
throw yourself all the way back again by flaring
off like this. I'll tell ye everything, and it's not
much, after all, if ye'll only keep cool and
comfortable.'

Well — go on.'

And ye may give me a month's warning and
send me away afterwards, if ye'll only be cool.
Miss, and don't blame me too much jest at
present.'

Why don't you explain V

'Well, then, he took it into his head Mr.
Goode had got his umbrella or else Captain
Choppers, and one day, when they were both
out, he axed me to let him look into their rooms,
and I did, i'm — and begorra I shouldn't have
been surprised if either of 'em had got it, mane
souls that they are, with never a kind word to

those vrh.0 are slaving their hearts out for 'em,
and '

Bridget, go downstairs directly.'

To be sure, i'm, I will if ye don't want meany
more.'

Bridget departed, and it dawned upon me
that she had been imbibing just a little — and
this had occurred once before, when papa was
alive. And she had too, but it was for joy that
I was better, and to drink good luck to me, she
afterwards confessed, and I forgave her, especially
as on the next day she joined the Blue Ribbon
movement, in sheer conciseness of spirit,
and was for ever afterwards — that is, up till now
a worthy, if humble, member of society.

But this Mr. Geoffrey Bird, how the man did
trouble me I How his nasty suspicious nature
had led him to poke and pry about my establishment,
and to take advantage of my helplessness,
and the proneness of Bridget and Sarah for half-crowns,
to ransack the whole place ! My blood
boiled with indignation. And then his present !
if it were a present — obtrusively nailed against
the wall, too, as if / cared for his carvings, or

did anything but despise his miserable manners
and his uncharitable self. He could not take
my word that no one had stolen his umbrella,
oh, dear no ! He must prove for himself that
I was not speaking the truth. How I hated
him !

I was recommended to take a drive next day,
and I hired a hansom cab and went to Boswell
Road, Islington, with the carved bird. I discovered
No. 967 at last, and found the house
empty, and a bill with ' This House to Let '
pasted upon the shutters. Mr. Geoffry Bird had
left the neighbourhood within the last few days,
and no one in Boswell Road knew what had
become of him.

So I had my journey for nothing, and all the
expenses of payment for carrying me through
the heart of the big city, where there was not a
breath of air stirring that hot day. I do not
think the drive did me any good, I was so terribly
vexed that Mr. Bird was not to be discovered,
and that I had to return to Prossiter Street
with his hateful carving on my lap. I would
have thrown it out of the cab only I was afraid

of hitting somebody between the eyes and creating
an uproar in the metropolis.

Put that wretched thing away where I can't
see it,' I said to Bridget, on my retm-n.

Yes, i'm, leave it to me, i'm.'

I don't mean where we can't find it,' I
added, meeting a decisive expression in Bridget
Gowan's green eyes that alarmed me ; * the
man may call again, although I doubt it very
much.'

Next week I was strong enough to join the
Brianss at Margate — that salubrious retreat
where one meets everybody he knows, if he
only waits long enough. And on the jetty
extension that evening I met Captain Choppers
and Mr. Goode, who had both come down ' by
accident,' and who had been passing each other
on the jetty all the evening as though they had
never met in the whole course of their lives.
;Mr. Goode's two sons were in Margate also, but,
having fallen headlong into the water whilst
fishing, had gone home to bed whilst their suits
were being dried. And the next morning
whom should I meet face to face, and smiling

as vigorously as ever, but Geoffrey Bird the
carver.

It was early morning, when few people were
stirring, and I had gone for a walk along the
Fort to put my blood in circulation and get an
appetite for breakfast. The Brianss were not
early risers, and I knew it was no use calling at
their apartments till half-past eight o'clock.

Mr. Bird was clad in a dark blue pilot suit,
with a very yellow straw hat set on the back of
his head and a large telescope under his arm.
He was supremely nautical, and I took him for
somebody rather high in the coastguard service
— a sergeant or something — before he raised
his hat and came with an antelope kind of spring
towards me.

Miss Neildd,' he exclaimed, * I am so very
glad to see you about again. You really cannot
imagine how glad T am !'

I don't understand why it should occasion
you any pleasure, sir,' I said, in my most reserved
tone of voice.

'Don't you, though? Oh, well, I'll tell
you.'

He turned and walked by my side, and I did
not see on the instant how it was possible to
get rid of him. I felt my equanimity was
seriously disturbed by his appearance, by his
insufferable obtrusiveness. This was part and
parcel of his ordinary behaviour — a total want
of forethought, which was as evident that day
as in the small hours of the morning when he
had roused me out of my first sleep by nearly
battering the house down.

He alluded to that little incident at once.

In answering me that unlucky night, Miss
Neildd, you nearly caught your death,' he explained,
* and nobody can imagine how miserable
I was — how desperately wretched — until I
heard you were out of danger. I should have
never forgiven myself, upon my honour, and I
did not know a moment's peace till Bridget,
your girl, told me you were out of danger.
Lor', what a trial it was !'

I don't see why — I don't understand at all —
I '

I can just fancy how a man feels who has
committed a murder and is not found out yet,'

he continued : ' it was dreadful, and all my own
fault too — every scrap of it.'

I did not feel so bitterly towards him after
this. His manner was genuine, if too forcible
and fluent for every-day wear. I might have
even thanked him for his exaggerated interest
in my health and said good-morning, if I
had not suddenly remembered his surreptitious
visits to my lodgers' apartments. Then I was
adamant, and he saw it. He was certainly an
observant man whom very little escaped. I
noticed the broad smile disappear, and he said,
almost with astonishment,

Why, you're offended with me still !'

As I have only seen you once before in my
life, I cannot very well speak of being offended,
Mr. Bird — but I must say '

No, no, don't say it,' he cried, interrupting
me, ' don't say a word more, please. I — I know
it was a great liberty— an unwarrantable liberty
but I couldn't help it. I wanted to make a
little return for all the trouble and misery I had
brought about, and I couldn't think of anything
else. I had just done it, you see.'

Done what V I exclaimed, snappishly — I
could have screamed at him for two pins.

Why, the little bit of carving — aren't you
talking about that V he inquired.

No, sir, although I'll trouble you to remove
the article from my premises as soon as you
conveniently can.'

'Oh!'

But 1 am alluding now, sir, to your ungentlemanly
behaviour in bribing my servants to let
you inspect my apartments.'

'I didn't bribe your servants, Miss Neildd.
Poor girls, I frightened them, but I did not give
them money as a bribe. You might have thought
better of a fellow than that,' he said, very
sorrowfully ; ' although why you should I don't
know exactly.'

You had no right to go into my lodgers'
rooms and search for that trumpery umbrella
you lost.'

No right !' he repeated.

Certainly — no right.'

But one of those two old beggars has got it,'
he cried, energetically ; ' I'm sure of that.'

How dare you say this to me !'

AVho else can it be ? I know yoic haven't
got it,' he cried. ' I am sm-e yom* two servants
are as innocent as babes unborn, and they were
the only two besides in the house that night —
the upstairs lot had gone to Tunbridge for two
days.'

How did you know that V

'Oh, I made every inquiry,' he explained,
coolly ; ' and as the umbrella was a precious
possession to me — I think I told you before it
was a gift from my father on his dying bed — 1
made every effort to find out what had become
of it.'

And a very mean way to find out it Alas,' I
said, with asperity, ' and — good-morning.'

Go-good morning,' he said, in a low, croaking
voice. He raised his bilious straw hat, dropped
his telescope, which he picked up and tucked
once more under his arm, came suddenly to a
full stop, and let me go on my Avay unmolested
any further by him.

Ashen I had got a good distance from him, I
began to feel a little sorry — even a little in

doubt if I had not been too hard upon him. He
had appeared so utterly unbounded by my
last opinion of his conduct, and he had turned
of such a variety of colours. Perhaps, from his
point of view, and with an umbrella which had
vanished from every point of view, he was not
wholly to be blamed. Perhaps the captain had
no, that was quite impossible. Perhaps Mr.
Goode — oh ! I was getting as miserably distrustful
as this unhappy man.

Yes, I was a little sorry. x\s I went off the
Fort, I stole one glance behind me to make sure
what had become of him — that his impulsive
nature even had not led him to jump off the
cliff. He was all right, he was a long way off —
indeed, in the very place where I had left him —
not overwhelmed or mad with grief and shame,
as I had almost feared he might be, but standing
with his legs planted widely apart looking
at me through his telescope. When he saw I
had turned he wheeled quickly round and feigned
an interest in the sea, knocking the hat off a
bath-chairman just passing him with an early
fare who had lost the use of his legs.

Well, there was an end of the intruder, I
thought, and I could have wished — yes, I did
actually wish — that I had been more of a young-lady
and less of a vixen in my reproaches to
him. I had been put out by his appearance at
Margate, by his venturing to address me, and
had lost my self-composure, but then a more
obtuse and aggravating person I had never
encountered before.

Not so very obtuse either, but very quick to
take a hint, and to guess when he was disliked
and his company objected to. We passed each
other twice or thrice a day after that, but he
never ventured to speak to me again ; he braved
with great "gravity, and exhibited an extraordinary
formality in taking off his hat, seizing it
in the middle of the crown, and raising it like
the lid off a saucepan, and there was no further
occasion to object to his expansive smile. He
was a stolid, even a woebegone, young man,
with something on his mind. Had it not been
for that everlasting telescope under his arm, one
could have imagined him a prey to the deepest-rooted
sorrow.

I think he was the most sad when I passed
him in company with the captain, who sometimes
condescended to promenade with me, and
the most angry when I was out with Mr. Goode,
to whom I was a relief from the wear and tear
of two boys wonderfully full of animal spirits
on unseasonable occasions. When I was with
Lily Brian, he seemed to brighten up a little,
and Lily was curious concerning him, and asked
me many questions.

Who is that good-looking young man, Jane,
who is always taking his hat o&V she asked
one morning.

He is a carver and gilder ; I don't know him
that is, I hardly know him,' I said. 'He
called once about something he had dropped
down our area, and he has claimed an acquaintance
ever since.'

Then why doesn't he speak V asked the
practical Lily.

He's much too quick with his speech ; and
it's a very good thing he's a trifle quieter just
now,' I said, sharply, and Lily looked at me
and said, eagerly,

VOL I. N

Tell me all about it ! Is he '

No, he is not'

Oh, I beg your pardon, Jane ; I thought he
was.'

An enigmatic dialogue, but we perfectly
understood each other. And I hoped that 1
had made Lily understand I had no interest in
Mr. Bird, for young girls jump so rapidly at
conclusions where young men are concerned.
Not that Lily was in the habit of jumping after
young men in any way — 1 do not mean to convey
that impression. Lily was full of spirits, but a
good girl in every respect, with not an atom's
worth of the ordinary Margate jetty girl in her
constitution ; not she. Still, curiously enough,
I was deceived in and by Lily Brian. 1 had no
idea she could have been so cunning or so
easily deceived. One morning when I walked
down the jetty, I found to my intense astonishment
Mr. and Mrs. Brian, Lily, George, the
eldest Master Brian, and Mr. Goode, all talking
and laughing with Mr. Bird, and taking it in
turns to peer through his telescope at some

object on the far horizon. I walked up slowly,
and with blushes on my cheeks, I am sure, in
my surprise.

Lily, my dear, here's a gunboat,' said Mr.
Brian, as I approached ; ' this gentleman has
been kind enough to allow us to inspect it
through his very powerful telescope. Look
here, child.'

Mr. Bird did smile a little, in a sheep-faced
and embarrassed kind of manner, as he glanced
towards me, but he did not say a word when
Mr. Brian handed me the instrument. He even
let Mr. Goode focus the instrument for me without
interfering in any way, although I fancied I
heard him grinding his teeth.

It's a capital glass, sir,' said Mr. Brian to
him. Mr. Brian, being of a genial turn, was
always disposed to be friendly with the first
stranger whom he encountered out of town.

Yes, it's a good glass.'

Had it long, sir ? Would you like to dispose
of it now V was the insinuating inquiry.

'It belonged to my father,* was the reply,

therefore it has not a money value to me. It
was his present when I was one-and-twenty,
and 1 shouldn't like to part with it'

another birthday present, I thought. Heavens,
if he was to lose this too !

Certainly not, certainly not,' said Mr. Brian ;
• I admire your good feeling, sir. George, you
hear that,' he said to his son, who was wholly
lacking in filial sentiment, and was at that identical
moment sucking the bare knob of his stick
as if it was an egg,

George nodded and then winked at me. A
most objectionable lout was George, and Mr.
Bird scowled ferociously at him, and from him
to me.

I inspected the gunboat, or tried to inspect
it, .for the object-glass was very misty with little
transparent worms that seemed to be wriggling
and dancing all over it; I returned the telescope
to its owner, who said, ' Thank you,
ma'am,' very quietly, and with his look of sadness
highly developed again.

Still he remained remarkably non-obtrusive ;
he did not attempt to force his conversation

upon me in any way, and presently he was
walking down the jetty with Mr. Brian, and
talking and laughing as if he had known him
all his life.

I thought all this was a new and deep-laid
scheme of his, but it was really Lily Brian who
was at the bottom of it all, or who at least induced
her parents and her brother to say from
that day ' Good-morning ' to Mr. Bird, and even
to shake hands with him. Hence I was obliged
to say * Good-morning ' also when he directly
addressed me, and to become by degrees on
speaking terms with him again, and almost to
forget that umbrella question which had been
a bone of contention — a whalebone of contention
— between us. Not that the umbrella was
off his mind in any way, for he had been introduced
to Captain Choppers on one occasion —
by Captain Choppers's express request, as that
gentleman wanted to borrow his telescope —
and to my astonishment I heard Mr. Bird say,
five minutes after the introduction,

You see, it was not for the value of the
umbrella, but because of the associations connected

with it. I hope you understand, captain.'
'I understand perfectly,' was the reply; 'but
that was no reason why you should have kicked
up such an abominable uproar, sir.'

Captain Choppers had borrowed the telescope,
and was now dominant and rude.

The time was drawing near towards the end
of the holiday when Mr. Bird and I were friends.
I may remark, actually friends, although I will
say very firmly, and despite Lily Brian's opinion,
nothing more than friends. Mr. Bird's holiday
would expire a few days before our own, I
learned, and, though I would not have owned
it for untold wealth, I was sorry he was going
back to London. He had informed me of his
position by that time, and of his prospects for
the future, or of some of them. He had given
up the business, and his father's business before
him, of carver and gilder in the Boswell Road ;
he was very clever at his trade, I felt sure, for
he had been offered the post of superintendent
of work by an eminent firm in Oxford Street
with whom he had done business for years, and
at a very respectable salary indeed.

He was exceedingly communicative the last
day of his stay in Margate ; we were sitting
together under the shelter of the verandah of
the refreshment-room, with the band playing
out in the rain. We were alone for a wonder ;
the Brianss were on the rocks in search of anemones,
with the exception of Lily, who had left
me half-an-hour ago, with an injunction to come
home if it * poured,' and with an umbrella to
shelter me, as I had ventured out without my
own. She had seen — ha^ang very sharp eyes
of her own — Mr. Geometry Bird advancing down
the jetty, and had made some trivial little excuse
to leave me, ' to give the poor fellow a chance,'
she told me afterwards. And there he was
sitting by my side, cool and comfortable,
and with the rain coming down in big drops
and startling and confounding the pleasure-seekers.


I shall be quite the gentleman soon, Miss
Neildd,' he said, with a laugh, 'and with a soul
above shopkeeping. I only Avant a few friends
about me to make life worth living, but I have
never had any friends. Never had the time,

or never saw anybody who was worth taking
any trouble about, until — until lately.'

I could not reply to this. 1 did not know
what he meant by ' lately.'

People never took to me either,' he confessed,
ruefully ; ' I have a bad habit of speaking out
what is on my mind, and I'm inquisitive and
suspicious at times, and so forth. Altogether a
beastly character.'

He waited for me to reply to this. I had
thought him abrupt and inquisitive and suspicious,
but that seemed a very long time ago
now. He had improved wonderfully of late
days ; there were little traits of character, of
frankness, earnestness, generosity, one could
almost admire, but I was not going to tell him
so, though he waited patiently as if he expected
something of the kind. As if men were not
vain enough in themselves, without being told
of their accomplishments !

You would not like anybody to say that but
yourself,' I said, however ; and it was a remark
which did not commit me to anything.

No. I should knock him down probably,'

he replied, ' especially if it were the captain or
that railway goods inspector fellow.'

Don't you like them V I asked, innocently.

*Do yon?' he rejoined.

They are old friends, almost.'

You don't make your lodgers your friends?'
he remarked.

^ Not always.'

I should think not,' he said, very scornfully
now.

'But these two gentlemen knew me when I
was a little girl.'

Ah ! That makes a difference, 1 suppose ;
that's why they are both so fond of you,' he
added, with a sigh.

^ Fond of me !'

You might marry either of them tomorrow,
if you cared to hold up your little finger — I can
see that.'

What nonsense !'

Oh ! it's true enough,' he cried.

I laughed.

Then I shan't hold up my little finger.'

That's right,' he said ; and he actually drew

a long, deep breath, as though it relieved him
to hear me say so ; ' for that captain's a pompous
old noodle — a selfish party, who's stuck to
my telescope a whole week — and the railway
man would fidget any woman out of her life ina
fortnight.'

What's the matter with him V

He's an old woman, that's all.'

*Upon my honour, you are very uncomplimentary
in your verdict upon my lodgers.'

I hate your keeping a lodging-house,' he
muttered.

My poverty, and not my will, consents,' I
answered.

He was very silent for a long time now. The
visitors had hurried homewards, or had sought
shelter like ourselves, the band had ceased
playing, the rain was coming down in earnest.

May I ask a favour of you before I go back
to London ?' he said, suddenly and very hoarsely.

'What is it r

Will you say " yes " ?'

Not till I know what it is about,' 1 replied,,
with spirit, ' certainly not.'

Well, then,' be cried, * don't give me back
that little bird I carved. You said you would,
and it has been preying on my mind that it will
come flying back some day when I least expect
it, and so upset me terribly. 1 want it hanging
on your wall, to remind you of me sometimes,
you know ; being a hijxl like me, you see, it
must. And though our acquaintance did not
commence auspiciously, still you have forgotten
and forgiven, haven't you?'

Well — yes — almost.'

'And you'll keep that little carving?'

Perhaps I will.'

Bless you, Jane— Miss Neildd, I mean. And
now '

1 was getting alarmed at his vehemence, and
very much afraid of what he would say next.
1 jumped up.

I think I will go home to Lily. She's all
alone, poor girl.'

But it's raining cats and dogs.'

I don't mind the rain, and I'm fond of cats
and dogs,' I said, tripping from the shelter, and
struggling to open the umbrella which Lily
had lent to me.

You have caught cold in the rain before
now,' he said, drily, * do stop a few minutes
longer.'

No,' I said, shaking my head, ' I would rather
not.'

*Here, let me manage that thing for you,
then,' he said, making a dash at the umbrella,
opening it, and holding it above my head, ' if
you must run away ; but you'll get very wet.'

I've got my waterproof.'

Yes, but— oh. Lord !'

What is the matter V I exclaimed, as he
turned very red and white, just as I had seen
him on the Fort, only now he looked at me as if
I were a ghost, and my spectral appearance had
frightened him.

He did not reply at once, and I cried,

Oh ! what is the matter ? Aren't you well ?
AVon't you tell me V

It's all right — that is, I shall be all right in a
minute,' he answered, in quite a new and hard
tone of voice ; ' don't mind me.'

What can it be?'

*I tell you it's nothing, Miss Neildd,' he said.

Don't take any notice of me, please. I had
rather you didn't.'

It was a strange request, but I did not. I
maintained a rigid silence, being a little nettled
presently at his own silent movements at my
side, his steady stare ahead of him, the stern
expression on his face. He marched along in
so grave and dumb a fashion at last, that I
could have slapped his face for him. AVhat did
he mean by such behaviour, I wondered? At
the end of the jetty he brought my heart into
my mouth, by suddenly roaring out,

No, I'll never believe it ! It's magic, it's a
lying dream, it's anything but this! I can't
believe it of you — I'd rather jump into the sea
than think it for another moment.'

'Think what? Good gracious! why don't
you tell me ?'

Think that you have deceived me all the
time. You, too, of all the lot of them !'

What have I done, Mr. Bird V

This — this umbrella,' he cried.

'Well?'

It — it's the umbrella I dropped down your

area ! My father's present ; I can swear to it
anywhere. They're my initials on that silver
collar, " G. B." Oh ! heaven and earth, to fancy
for one instant that you — Miss Neildd, I am goin.tj;
raving mad. Look at it, look at it I'

I stared from him to the umbrella, which he
had thrust into my hands, and felt going mad
myself. I looked so terribly mean and guilty,
and yet I was so perfectly innocent, and I did
not want him now to have one thought against
me. I was confused, I did not know how to
explain ; I felt too indignant in the midst of my
grief even to try to explain ; for he should
not have jumped to conclusions in this way,
but have waited, and — and then I burst into
tears.

Oh, pray don't cry,' he called out, * for
mercy's sake, don't, Jane ; I don't care about
the umbrella now, I don't mind your taking — '

'It's — it's not mine I' I screamed out at last.
It was lent me by Lily Brian, because she
thought it — it — it would rain before I got home.
There !'

Thank God ! What an awful thief she is for

one so young he cried. ' I am so tremendously
glad though, so awfully glad '

Take your umbrella,' I cried, pitching it at
him ; ' and I'm glad it's found too, very.'

I don't mean I'm glad I've found it, but that
you '

How dare you suspect me V I cried, sweeping
majestically away from him, but he followed
me, and held the umbrella over my head again,
and overwhelmed me with hurried and incoherent
apologies, which I declined to accept.

Perhaps it's not mine,' he said at last. ' Pray
be rational, Miss Neildd, " B " stands for Brian as
well as Bird. Is Mr. Brian's Christian name
George, do you think?'

Don't speak to me. You know it's your
umbrella.'

It is a little like it,' he said, dismally.

I don't want any miserable evasions, Mr.
Bird, and I never want to see or speak to you
again, and I '

'Why, Jenny, what's the matter?' cried Lily
Brian, suddenly appearing round the corner of
the street, and under another umbrella, and with

a shawl over her arm. ' Where have you been ?
Ma was afraid you wanted more wraps, and has
sent me out with them, and — how d'ye do, Mr.
Bird? Who'd have thought of seeing ?/o?« this
wet day V

I've offended Miss Neildd,' he said, not smiKng-
in the least at her arch manner of address to
him.

You ! Oh, what about V she cried.

That nasty, hateful umbrella,' I said. ' Where
did you get it, Lily ? oh ! where did you get it V

What's the matter with the umbrella V asked
Lily, very cool and self-possessed.

It — it's not yours !' I exclaimed, ' it never
was yours V '

No, it's George's. He lent it me this morning.'

'And where — where did your brother get it?'

1 don't know.'

But we did very shortly. George had found
it in his father's area, and, with a total disregard
of other people's rights — being young, and short
of umbrellas — had quietly appropriated it without
any fuss. It was like a merciful dispensation
having his initials already engraved for him, too.

Yes, it was down Mr. Brian's area that Mr. Bird
had dropped his umbrella that night, and Geoffry
had knocked at the next door by mistake.

I call him Geoffrey now. And a very lucky
mistake it was, he always says, even to this day,
and I have been Mrs. Bird three years, and
there is another Kettle Bird croaking in its nest
too.

VOL. I.

o2

A PRISON FLOWER

CHAPTER I.

CHILD OR woman.

The sun was sliming brightly in the airing-yard
of one of onr great Government prisons,
and the ' children of the night,' poor, forlorn,
purposeless women most of them, were plodding
round their allotted space in the mill-horse
fashion patent to the place, with the matron, a
vigilant atom of humanity, in the background. It
was early spring-time, and cold even in the sunshine,
and the women, under their thick shawls,
walked with briskness, as if anxious to get the
hour's exercise over, as well as to put some

extra degree of warmth into their bodies. It
was the penal-class ward which was taking its
exercise at this period when the curtain rises on
our story, and the grim and lowering visages of
the female prisoners stood almost as a warranty
of the crime for which they were under lock and
key for many years of their terribly wasted
lives. They looked like beings without hope,
or faith, or love ; With hearts like the nether
millstone, and on their rugged countenances
was marked * Dangerous* as clearly as though
it were imprinted as a warning to all better folk
brought into contact with them. Round and
round, in Indian file, went the prisoners, stolid
and silent, the rules against them as to conversation
with each other. These Avere newcomers,
of the worst class, or old offenders, or
returns ' from other prisons, where the lighter
duties or the privileges of 'association,' had
been abused, and so they were back again to
the first and worst estate of penal servitude.

They were, taken altogether — taken mayhap
without an exception — ' a bad lot,' and the
matron was wary of her black sheep. The

prison was out of gear — ' out of sorts ' — that
day, as it had been for weeks past, for the
matter of that. Things had gone wrong generally
; matrons and assistant-matrons had been
changed ; some new orders had been issued to
the class which hated new orders ; one or two
of the women had broken out in defiance of
them, and been carried to the ' dark cells,' and
more than one life had been threatened for
offences real or imaginary.

Even in the airing-yard there was an extra
shadow cast, and the gloomy prison world was
hardly working satisfactorily to prisoners or
matrons, much less to the Honourable Board of
Directors sitting in solemn conclave at Parliament
Street, eternally studying the great question
of ' Our Criminals '; the gigantic paradox of
how these unruly souls shall live or die by
rule.

Suddenly there appeared in the yard one
prisoner a little behind time, and under escort
of her officer — a new arrival, to whom rules
were new and convict life unknown ; and it washer
unlooked-for advent which turned the current

of every woman's thoughts, and woke them
up to life and wonderment and a strange excitement,
for which even the matrons were
wholly unprepared. For this was an innovation
upon the monotony of prison service ; a something
new and unprepared for ; a change in the
affairs of those who were working out their
sentences.

This was surely not a woman ; rather a child ;
and even the matrons on duty, accustomed to
cloak all feelings under official reserve, were
taken off their guard. The new-comer was not
fifteen years of age, but looked two good years
younger. So child-like was her face and figure,
and so short in stature was she, that the smallest
sized prison dress in the establishment had had
to be pinned up carefully round her to make
even the semblance of a fit of it. A fair-haired,
blue-eyed child was this too, Avhose proper place
should have been at her mother's knees in some
peaceful English home, rather than one more
atom here of a world of crime and ignorance and
horror.

The prisoners came, as if by one general instinct,

to a full stop in the airing-yard ; everything
was forgotten but the presence in their
midst of this new recruit to the ranks of the
Devil's regiment, and the matron on duty, surprised
even in her turn, omitted at once to remind
them that they were infringing the great
rule of the establishment. The child — for she
looked no more than a child and was at heart
far less— had touched some unused chords in the
wild nature of these prisoners ; perhaps they had
had sisters and daughters like her ; they had
been like her themselves before the world was
steeped in murky darkness to them, and they
knew what a terrible place it was, and how unfit
for this young life. It was, even to the callous,
sin-begrimed souls here, so awful a beginning to
the little waif suddenly starting up amongst
them, and proclaiming to them by her presence
that she was one of them ; just as bad as all the
rest ! One old woman who had lived in gaol
almost all her life, and was prone to boast of
her eight-and-twenty sentences, was the first to
stop, horror-stricken, and arouse the attention
of the rest.

<My God I look here,' she shrieked out
across the thing-yard. ' Oh I just look here !'

Silence !' exclaimed the matron, roused to a
sense of the disorganisation gradually gaining
the upper hand of all obedience to order.
Silence, please.'

Why, she's only a kid !' cried another. ' Oh,
it's dreadful I'

It's a shame — it was a burning shame to
bring her here,' was the next exclamation.

Avon's she done ? AVho is she ? Here, let's
have a squint at her, will yer,' cried a tall, raw-boned
Lancashire woman, leaving the ranks and
elbowing her way towards her.

Why, it's like my own Bessie when I saw her
last at home,' cried a fourth. 'I can't stand
this ; I canst look at her !'

It's a shame,' welled forth the deep, hoarse
murmur of the prison voices once again.

There were stifled sobs, suppressed cries of
grief, even loud wings and protestations
against the enormity of the law which had
placed this little stray in the great prison
amongst them.

Meanwhile the subject of all this attention remained
quiet and composed ; she had even fallen
into rank before the ranks had become broken
up, and the matrons had grown nervous as to
the ultimate result. It took but little to excite
these women ; they were always waiting, longing,
and scheming for reaction.

Take her back to her ward,' cried the
matron in charge ; and it was by only these
means that some semblance of peace and concord
was brought to the disorganised forces.

The child was hustled away, and, by dint of
appeal and threat, the regiment of despair was
once again formed into line, set slovvl}^ in
motion, and proceeded on its monotonous
tramp, tramp, tramp, round the big airing-yard.

The silent system was a delusion for the day ;
it was policy to ignore for a while the quick,
short whispers of the prisoners when they
thought themselves fairly beyond the earshot
of their watchers. The element of discord had
been removed, and in a few more minutes it was
hoped that the women would settle down. Two
prisoners, plodding on at the distance of a yard

from each other, were the most talkative ; one,
the tall, Lancashire female already alluded to ;
the other, a thin, fragile being, of some two or
three-and-twenty years of age, who had seemed
to take less heed of the new-comer than the rest
of her contemporaries. Only seemed — for there
had been keen eyes which had taken stock of
the latter prisoner, and ears which had heard
one wild, heart-breaking cry escape her : a cry
that had been wholly submerged in the Babel
of sound which had broken loose. Finlanson,
the Lancashire woman, remained still demonstrative
; she who had the strength of a man,
and was at times as violent as a man. Finland
vas sniffing very much, and occasionally
wiping her eyes with the back of her hand in a
quick, angry fashion.

I'd like to smash the head in of that old
judge who sent the kid on here,' she growled.
I only wish he'd come in to see us, and I knew
the bloke. He wouldn't get out alive, I'm
reckoning.*

What business is it of your V was the sharp
answer back, and without looking round.

It ain't nat'ral, Wilton, that's all ; it ain't a bit
natural;

I daresay she's as bad as you are.'

How do you make that out V

1 don't know. Don't bother me about the
gal said Wilton.

Did you see what blue eyes she'd got ? Blest
if they wasn't like bits of ehaney,' exclaimed
Finlanson.

I didn't notice.'

I never felt so much like a baby in all my
life as I do this blessed day,' Finlanson muttered.
' I there's that cat of a matron looking

at us.'

I don't care for the matron,' Wilton responded,
sullenly.

No more do I. For two pins I'd fling that
stone at her.'

Oh, no, you won't ; not while I'm here, you
won't do that trick.'

Won't I? You, you whipper-snapper, to talk
to me. Take that!'

And, excited and out of temper, and readily
impulsive, and altogether weary of the method

and monotony of an hour's exercise, Janet
Finlanson, taunted by Mary Wilton, brought
one large and heavy hand on the top of that
lady's big straw bonnet, and levelled her to
the ground. Then began at once a second
scene of tumult with Janet Finlanson raving
like a mad woman, and threatening annihilation
to the authorities in general, with prisoners
siding for and against her, an alarm bell ringing,
and male warders from the men's side springing
up like magic and bearing off to solitary confinement
the pugilistic and kicking Janet, ' put
out ' by the mere entrance into prison service of
a girl of tender years, and not to be reduced to
a quiet state again for many desperate days of
insubordination and defiance.

Meanwhile Mary Wilton was picked up from
the ground and helped to her own cell, under
protest. She was well enough — well enough to
cut the heart out ' of that Lancashire brute the
first time she came across her again. ' See if
she didn't ! See if she was going to be bashed
about for nothing by a common ritter like that !
Only just wait and see !'

It was on the cards that Mary Wilton, in her
cell, and suffering from Janet Finlanson's 
assault, would prove herself another
source of trouble presently to the
authorities. She was excited and hysterical and
hurt, and a little out of the common way had
been known before to disturb the equanimity of
Mary. But locked up in her cell, with her work
ready to her hand, she, after a few minutes
deliberation, thought better of it, and put down
the metal ' pint ' from which she had emptied
some water on the floor, with the intention of
battering at everything within reach. She sat
down, snatched up her work suddenly, and after
one little suppressed scream, with her face
pressed against the mattress folded on the wall,
so that no sound should well into the corridor,
where the matron was on duty.

Had Miss Greenwood been listening without,
she might have heard the following short
soliloquy :

No ; I'll keep quiet for this once. To think
that she's come, after all. My little sister Daisy
just as she said she would !'

CHAPTER 11.

ON NIGHT DUTY.

At nine o'clock in the evening there entered
upon night duty a young and pretty — if a pale
and delicate — woman, who at first sight seemed
as singularly out of place in the precincts of a
gaol, as little Daisy March had looked that
morning. As she stood, talking to an officer
before proceeding on her task of watch and
ward, there ' seemed too much of the lady ' in
her to render the onerous duties of a prison fair
and acceptable service ; a common observer
even might have perceived that this was someone
from the better days, who, by a strange
chance, or a strong motive — or, say even by a
perverted taste — had been led to an uncongenial

and unsatisfactory mode of life. The story maybe
faintly sketched forth presently, so far as it
pertains to the chronicle which we have set ourselves
to write, or affects the prison characters
which will flit athwart our pages ; therefore we
need not enter into details here upon it.

Patience Greenwood had not been long in
the service, and was, therefore, new to the rules.
Night duty is the novitiate of the new officer —
there is less upon the mind, less calls upon one's
judgment in the dark hours with the wild beasts
in their dens, asleep or feigning sleep, and, as a
rule, particularly still. To a nervous matron,
the night duty is probably a greater trial than
the day's, but then one is not called upon to
consider nerves in prison service. People with
nerves are better out of it, and the less imaginative
they are, probably the better too ; and if it
Avere possible in a young and thoughtful woman
to submerge all sympathy with her surroundings,
as one might sink a big stone to the bottom
of the sea, why, in time she might become a
model officer. But given nerves, and imagination,
and a true woman's heart which will not

VOL. 1. P

grow callous with the callous and unyielding
souls within her ken, and there is soon an end
of it. The wheels grind heavily and harshly
against each other, and their revolutions are
fast and furious, till the final crash conies of the
whole machinery.

Miss Greenwood was not a nervous matron
for all this — on the contrary, one more self-possessed
and calm it would have been difficult to
match in the great gaol, but she possessed imagination,
and mixed with a strong, religious
feeling was that deep sympathy with the unfortunate
which was at least against her becoming
an e very-day, mechanical officer. Still, these
were early times, and she had not settled down
yet ; the prison world was strange and new to
her, and even interesting. She was already
considered very diligent and earnest — a new
broom which had begun by sweeping cleanly.
Presently, the old stagers thought, she would belike
the rest of them — more matter-of-fact and
less ' fine ' — more like her sharp sister possibly,
who had been a prison matron some two years
and a half, and had all the rules and regulations

at her finger-ends. It was the elder sister whom
we have seen that morning in the airing-yard,
when the coming of Daisy March had seriously
upset the little amount of self-command of which
the female prisoners had to boast.

The younger Miss Greenwood proceeded
upon her night duty calmly and methodically,
making the detour of the prison, passing noiselessly
and quickly from cell to cell, along corridor
after corridor, listening once or twice to a
more than usually heavy sigh, or muttered
sleep-word, once exchanging a ' good-night '
with a restless soul, wide awake and staring,
and waiting for those two words from her, as
though in some way they were grains of comfort
which a woman might take to heart and
sleep presently the better for. Down the dimly-lighted
wards to the corridor beyond and apart,
at the end of which where the dark cells, in the
days of which wee write, proceeded the young
night officer. She closed the door after her as
she entered the passage, for Janet Finlanson
was bawHng a ribald ditty at the top of her
voice, and accompanying herself with emphatic

p2

kicks upon the wooden bench whereon she was
lying full length. The dark cell had not daunted
her; time had not weakened her voice, but
only rendered her particularly husky, and her
sense of injury was very strong upon her
still. Janet Finlanson was making a night of
it.

Here — Hi ! you Greenwood gal I' she shouted,
directly the assistant-matron was in the
ward, ' I know you're here. You can't do me ;
I want to speak to you.'

Miss Greenwood approached to listen to her
complaint, and Janet Finlanson left off thumping
with her heels in order to address her officer
for awhile, and if the said officer were disposed
to listen to her, which she was.

r say, I've got a word or two for your sister.'

Indeed.'

She's dropped me into this mess, mind you,
and I shall smash her when I get out,' said Fin-hanson
; ' I'll smash her into atoms.'

That is a poor message to give me, Finlanson,*
said Patience Greenwood, quietly.

Well, I mean it, and she'd better look out.'

She will look out, although you don't mean
it.'

Don't I V And here Finlanson was about to
asseverate most solemnly and fiercely her fixed
intention to ' do ' for Miss Greenwood within the
next seven days, when the young matron said
Good-night,' in a quiet way that checked her.
'You ain't a-going?' cried Finlanson at once.

Yes ; I must not stop, you know.'

Sometimes you stops longer,' remarked the
prisoner. ' The last time I had a kick-up, and
settled all the glass, you said as you was sorry.'

I'm always sorry when you break out.'

Good lor' — why V

Because you are so steady and straightforward
when you are going on well.'

Miss Greenwood knew the power of flattery
over the majority of her sex, although there was
truth as well as praise in her last assertion. No
prisoner could behave better than Janet P'inlan-
son when she liked — the pity of it was that she
very seldom liked. Even when disposed to be
diligent and placid she was to be turned into a
fury by the least fancied slight from officer or

fellow-prisoner, and without so much as a moment's
warning of the transformation.

Ah ! yes ; but the likes of you won't let us goon
well.'

Some of us try.'

You do, pVaps. I don't know no one else,
and I likes you sometimes,' was the gruff response,.
but as for your sister '

Ah ! you don't know what a good sister she
is.'

What did she want calling in the men, jest
because I flattened Poll Wilton's bonnet ? Mind
yer, I shall kill Wilton, bang off.'

Oh, no ; you like her.'

I shall wittingly kill Wilton,' persisted Janet.
The likes of her a-talkin' about what she'll do
to me, if I — but never mind that. The inference
of her — why, I could blow her away at any
moment.'

Yes. She is very weak,' said the assistant-matron.
' You must not be too hard upon her,
Finlanson. She thinks a great deal of you.'

What next will you say V

She said she was very sorry you'd got into

the " clailv," and it was all her fault. She nearly
broke out, too, to join you.'

'Did she though?' said Finlanson, with a
great gasp, * what, Poll Wilton ?'

Yes.'

I don't see how you know, as you ain't in
her ward, and ain't on duty all day,' said Fin-hanson,
suspiciously.

My sister told me.'

ah! well, tell Wilton I don't mind a bit
then. I don't care what they do to me. I'm
strong as a 'ouse, and can keep it up. Here
goes again.'

And Finlanson began to sing and scream and
hammer with her heels until Patience Greenwood
said ' Good-night ' once more.

Oh ! you're off then.'

Yes, my head aches.'

I won't make any row till you've got out of
the ward, jest because you haven't cut away
without saying a Avoid to-night. But I shall
kill your sister, must chance ; see if I don't.'

These were Janet Finlanson's last words, but
they did not impress Patience Greenwood as

words uttered b}^ women less demonstrative and
more dangerous might have done. Finlanson
was a big woman, with big words to match,
but with an infinitesimal amount of brain, and
some semblance of a heart left. An impulsive,
spasmodic, awkward customer, this ' Lancashire
lass ' of fourteen stone, to whom the coming of
a child to prison had been an offence and grievance
only to be protested against by a meaningless
outbreak on her own part. * One of the
worst of women,' was written against her in the
prison-books, but this was hardly fair. ' One of
the most unmanageable,' would have been a
fairer criticism ; but then there had been no one
to manage and control this nature in its early
stages — no one to love and rear her, and only
the eternal horror of a bad example for ever set
before her — examples of theft and profligacy,
and even murder, in the dens of Liverpool,
where she had been born and bred, and hence
the result scarcely to be wondered at. Here
was the natural outcome of neglect in one misguided
nature. What the sum total is of such
neglect amongst the poor and vicious, one reads

whilst running past in fear of them. The prisons
were always full in those days. The light of
better times and truer thoughts shines even now
but dimly over the waste land on which the
darkness rests.

i

CHAPTER III.

THE PRISON DAISY.

We, as faithful chroniclers, are somewhat disposed
to assert that Patience Greenwood had
at least not that supreme reverence for prison
rules and regulations which a properly organised
matron was expected to possess. Had
she remained all her life — or the best years of
her life — ' under government,' it is doubtful if
the reverence would have deepened very much.
She was an eccentric young woman, and would
have given trouble to the authorities by ' wanting
to know, you know,' — by objecting to the
rules, and possibly by sending in proposed
amendments to them, by an absence of profound
respect, mayhap, for principals, and an inner

consciousness that they were but fussy, pompous
and common-place folk, take them altogether,
to whom in her old and higher estate —
from which a father's speculations had hurled
down a family — she might have thought it
preferable to hold aloof, or to laugh at good-naturedly,
for their little vain displays of brief
authority.

But she was fond of * the service,' and with
an honourable desire to be of service too, which
is not always the incentive to exertion in the
heart of every matron. She had a fair idea of
what was duty, and she followed it to the best
of her ability, — although it was remarked that
she showed too much interest in the prisoners,
talked too much to them at times, and had
been even known to preach at them. Though
a good officer, she was not likely to prove so
sharp and efficient as her elder sister, it was
thought. She would probably wear herself out
quickly, taking things to heart too much as she
did, and not getting used to the business so
promptly as she might have done. Her sister
Kate thought this, as well as many strangers

with not half the interest in her, but Patience
Greenwood only smiled, and continued the even
tenor of her way.

Decidedly an inquisitive young woman, we
may assert without exaggeration ; and it was
evident that Daisy March had aroused in her
more than a common amount of interest. She
would have been glad to know the whole story
of this child of fourteen's appearance in gaol ;
and why the sentence had been so severe upon
a girl so young. This was an impression which
Patience could not shake from her mind — not
even as it became fairly evident to the Avorld
about her that Daisy March was as wild and
wilful, as resistive of all discipline, and as defiant
of it, as women twice and thrice her age, and
with twice and thrice her penal-servitude experience.
Taken altogether, Daisy March was
hardly an interesting character, people thought;
she was only a specimen of one who had
matured in crime with a more frightful rapidity
than her fellows, and seemed at her early age
as bad as any of them. The prisoners had soon
grown accustomed to her, and their sympathy

had evaporated as quickly as it had been
shown on her first appearance in their midst ;
she was as sullen and harsh to them as to her
officers, as ready to take offence, as watchful
of every opportunity to deceive — the regular
gaol-bird — and of the old, grim, regulation
pattern.

Still, in the estimation of Patience Greenwood,
there cas something in her which was different
from the rest — there was, even to the assistant-matron's
mind, the certainty of a mystery about
her presence there, which had not yet been
fathomed.

That girl March pretends to be worse than
she is said Patience Greenwood one day to her
sister.

'My dear Patience, how you worry about
that prisoner. She cannot be a great deal
worse, I fancy.'

I am not so sure of it.'

You must not be romantic in this sad business
of our lives,' said the elder sister, ' or the
work will become too much for you.'

'. It is too much for me already.'

Yon are not feeling ills asked Kate, anxiously.


1 don't know that I am feeling particularly
strong,' was the reply.

You will apply for sick leave, then. Go
down to Aunt Mary's in the country. You
must not give way.'

Oh ! I shall keep well,' said the younger
sister: 'you and I cannot afford to fall sick.
We must leave that luxury to the rich.'

I don't quite understand you,' said Kate
Greenwood, regarding her sister doubtfully ;
but I know that I am not going to have you
killed by prison service. If you cannot get
used to it — resign.'

Have you got used to it ?' answered Patience,
with a visible little shudder.

1 think I have.'

Then I am sorry for you.'

It is my " profession." ' said Kate, laughing,
and I study it professionally.'

If our poor, dear dad could only have known
what was to become of us, Kate,' said Patience,
half slowly, half-drily, 'perhaps he would not

have speculated in quite so many bubble companies.'


Patience, 1 am sure you detest this life.'

I don't like it a great deal,' was the confession
; * possibly for the reason I have already
stated, that it is too much for me.'

You will give it up ?'

Not yet.'

Presently V

Yes — presently.'

'Before the long hours and the hard service
render you unfit for anything else. Oh I Patience,
you are all I have left in the world, and I cannot
afford to lose you.'

Kate flung her arms round her, and kissed
her. The elder sister was not an impulsive or
demonstrative woman, but there was a true
affection for the younger in her heart, one of
those unfathomable loves which one sees at
times — not too often — between sisters, and
which, in its deep solemnity of devotion and
self-sacrifice, amazes people of a colder stamp.
And Kate Greenwood was devoted to this
younger sister — had been as a mother to her in

those tender years of girlhood, when the mother,
by God's will, had been taken away from them
both. Under the mask of her imperturbability,
she was watching her sister every day with
keen attention, and setting others on a friendly
watch also.

Our dialogue had occurred in the little room
of Patience Greenwood. It was Kate's ' night-off,'
and she was spending an hour or two with
her younger sister, whose time for going on
night duty was approaching. The time passed
quickly with them ; they had had a great deal
to talk about — of many little plans for the future,
when, perhaps, they should be able to give up
prison service altogether, and live somewhere in
the country. This was Kate's day-dream, which
rendered the present life endurable, and which
kept Kate stronger than her sister Patience,
whose day-dreams were hardly as bright, and
who did not see the end of it so clearly as the
other.

A few days afterwards, it was announced to
Miss Patience Greenwood that she was to be
transferred to another government prison in a

pleasant London suburb, and Patience regarded
the lady-superintendent a little doubtfully when
the announcement was made to her.

I would prefer to remain with my sister, Mrs.
Edgar,' was Patience's slow reply.

The order has come from Parliament Street,
and there is no appeal,' said the lady.

Patience flew to her sister.

You are at the bottom of this transfer, Kate,
and it's no use denying it.'

Well, I am,' the elder sister acknowledged.
I was anxious about you, and spoke to the
doctor. The new prison is on a more healthy
site, and you will have a better chance of
health.'

This is our first separation, then T

' We are separated now, Patience,' was the
other's reply, ' and we shall even meet more
often under the new arrangement. Our "nights-off
" will be the same, and we will spend them
together.'

I shall miss all the old faces,' said Patience.
The matrons I have learned to like, and the
prisoners who have become, as it were, my
VOL. I. Q

charge. I wonder what Daisy March will do
without me.'

'Without you!'

Well, she does mind what I say, now and
then, I think.'

My dear Patience, you have Daisy March
upon the brain.'

And this Daisy March, whose name stands
in this story as one of our principal characters
what of her ? That young lady was in ' the
dark ' at the present moment, having tried the
effect of a break-out, it was thought upon Janet
Fiulanson's earnest recommendation, who considered
that it ' kept the pot a-bihn'.' But
Daisy had especial reasons for this extraordinary
ebullition of temper, and they were soon apparent
to the night officer. Daisy March had
been three months in prison at this time, wee
may add.

I say. Miss Greenwood,' she said, in a low
voice, when the ' inspection ' had been opened,
to see that the refractory prisoner was ' all
right ' in the dark cell to which she had been
consigned, 'I want to speak to you.'

Well V

'I ain't to see much more on you, they say.'

How do you know that V

You're going' to t'other prison, ain't you V

Who told you V

Oh ! it's all over the place, you can't keep
things quiet here. I snowed it yesterday, and
that's why I've got to " the dark." '

You ! And for what reason V

I could speak to yer, you see — I could '

She paused, then went on again.

I could tell you I was sorry you was a-going",
miss.'

Why, you don't care for me V

Don't repose 1 care for nobody. Nobody at
all ; but I don't want you to go, somehow.'

Why not r

You ain't like the rest on 'em,' she replied.
You ain't like your sister — not a bit of it. Nobody
likes your sister.'

That's bad news to me.'

You do, I repose?'

Yes. She has been a good, kind sister tome.'


q2

Has she, really V

And you have a sister, who has been kind
to you.'

How — how do you know that V cried Daisy,
very quickly now. It was her turn to be surprised
at the information.

I have fancied it,' said Patience Greenwood,
drily.

You knows too much for me,' said Daisy
March ; ' you are precious artful, if '

If I sometimes think I can guess the reason
why you are here.'

Well, what was it r

Because your sister was here too. And you
were rash enough, and wicked enough, to join
her at any cost.'

You know a lot, you do,' said Daisy, ironically.

Am I wrong V

Well, Poll wos allers good to me. She took
my part — fought with father for me, scratched
mother, did everything for me — and as I
couldn't get on without her, why, I came here.
That's it. And you won't split, will you?'

And you are fond of this sister, then?'

I jest am !'

Why do you break out like this, then ? Mary
Wilton doesn't.'

Oh, she puts me out, though ; she talks to
the other women too much,' Daisy added, jealously,
' and I can't bear it. But,' she added,
quaintly, ' I came here to see you this time, and
I'm weary com for bul. / like this shop /'

Horrible !'

And I shall come and see you in your new
-crib,' said Daisy, positively. ' I goes in for a
bran new leaf tomorrow. I shan't be weary
long afore I follow you, you see.'

Ah ! you'll have to be very good, March, to
get to the next prison.'

You'll see.'

You can be good if you like, then?'

You jest see V was the strong reiteration
here. 'Poll's going, and now you're going, and
I mean it now.'

Mean it always, Daisy March, and I shall
be very glad,' said our heroine, earnestly.

You glad ! What if I Here, did you

say glad V

Yes, very glad.'

Well, you are a rum un,' was the inelegant
response, in a low, sepulchral, wondering tone
of voice. * I don't make it out, you know.'

Why I should be glad V

Sickly so, miss. Because you see I'm so
awful bad ; born bad, without a scrap of good
in me anywhere. They'll tell you so in Scrooge's
Court, Liverpool, and no flies. They'll tell you
there '

I don't want to hear what they say of you
there, Daisy. Never mind them. What they
say of you here is another matter, and I shall
be glad when you have your good conduct
badge. I'm going now. Good-bye.'

Good-bye for the present, miss. That's all ?'

'That's all.'

And you will be glad to see me ?'

Yes, very glad.'

Thanked, thanked. God bless you, miss. I
don't make it all out, but God bless you.
There !' shrieked the girl.

The matron walked away slowly, stopped,,
came back again.

What made you say that V she asked.

< I don't know. I've heard people talk like
that, off and on.'

'Do you know what it means?'

Dashed if I do.'

Do you know anything of Him whom you
call upon to bless me?'

'No.'

'Not anything? — oh, not anything?'

The parson's been a train' to make me know
a bit, and I've been a train to understand him
but lor, bless you, there's no making him out,
miss ; try as hard as you can.'

'You will understand, I hope. Meanwhile,
God bless Daisy March for trying. I think He
^vill in His good time.'

And Patience Greenwood moved slowly away
moved on for ever from this neglected prison
flower. Matron and convict had made many
plans, and looked forward to the future. But
the future is God's, and belongs not to man or
woman.

CHAPTER IV.

DAISY IS DECEIVED.

Step by step, to trace the prison life of Daisy
March, and to track her faltering, feeble progress
— but still a progress — in detail, comes not
within the province of a story of this kind. It
will be sufficient to record that a wild, distorted
nature put forth some green young shoots towards
the light and life lying beyond the murky
world in which she had been cast, and that she
showed some little efforts to work upwards.
And if this was not repentance, and there was
no religion in the question, if the chaplain of
the gaol exercised no power over her, and was
at any opportunity an object to be ridiculed and
scoffed at, still Daisy March worked on doggedly,

learned some lesson of self-restraint, gathered
to herself the fact that, by good behaviour and
fair obedience, the distance between the penal
class and ' the association ' — the prison, wherein
the rule was silence and severity, and the prison
beyond, where silence would be the exception
grew less and less with every day. The good
conduct badge was earned at last, and it was on
the cards that Daisy March might be transferred
at any moment. There had been every incentive
to exertion ; her sister had gone, and was a
Number One woman ' in the new prison, and
Patience Greenwood was waiting for her, she
was sure. It had been a promise between them,
and the young assistant-matron had been the
only officer to give her a good word. This
sister of hers — this Kate Greenwood — was not
one of the right sort. She was * down on her ';
she was all for the rules; she was more like a
machine than an officer ; she seldom smiled, and
Alas always very silent, watchful, cross ; she
gave her no news of the ' other one '; not she,
without it was wrenched out of her.

Once or twice in odd opportunities to say a

few words, when Daisy March had become a
prisoner over whom a less amount of rigors was
exercised, when she was a * cleaning woman,*
and allowed a few half-hours of liberty about
the wards, efforts were made by her to render
Kate Greenwood conversational.

Yon don't tell me anything about her, Miss
Greenwood,' she said once ; ' I don't know
nothing.'

Miss Greenwood regarded her very thoughtfully,
and, as Daisy March considered, very
crossly, being a bad judge of the looks of earnest
folk.

What do you want to know, March V

She's at the other prison, I repose V

My sister r

Yes.'

She is in the country now,' was the reply ;
at her aunt's.'

There, now ; blest if I didn't think there was
some game up. What's the use in her been'
away when I'm a-going' to her directly ? What's
the '

She has been ill,' said Kate Greenwood,
interrupting her.

< You don't say that !'

But she is getting better, they say. She
will be on duty next week again, I hope.'

'Why didn't I know this afore? Why
couldn't you tell me ?' said Daisy March, almost
peremptorily.

1 am not here to give you news,' was the
cold answer ; •' and, besides,' she added, ' it might
have unsettled you.'

Oh ! much you cared about that.'

And,' she continued, very calmly, and quite
oblivious to the taunt conveyed, ' I wanted you
to get to your sister.'

Oh ! she's told you that, then, has she V exclaimed
Daisy.

No ; I told her long ago,' was the reply.

Ah ! you're too sharp for me, i\Iiss Greenwood,'
remarked the other. ' And what's she
doing V

She is doing pretty well.'

It's funny you're having a sister and me
having one, too, and all going on together like
a four-in-hand ; ain't it 1'

I don't see the fun in it.'

It's funny to me, and no mistake. You don't
know '

I know you are talking too much,' said the
matron, closing the subject suddenly and
peremptorily. ' There, get on with your work.'

Ah I I shall never like you a bit,' muttered
Daisy March to herself; 'and, what's more, I
shan't try.'

The impression even grew upon Daisy March
that she disliked this officer more with everyday,
and that the prim young matron evaded
her, and took a deal of pains to keep out of lier
way, a tremendous deal of pains, as though she
hated to say a word to her, or give her one
scrap of news. Thank goodness, she should
soon be out of her clutches, soon have earned
her right to get away to the prison where the
other was, and where the rules were not so hard
and fast, or ' doAvn upon a gal.' She should
like that new prison, she was sure ; she would
be presently in association there, and allowed to
talk a bit, and she was ' uncommon fond ' of
talking, if they would only let her.

There was a great deal to perplex this half-child,

half-Avoman. She did not quite make
everything out. Miss Greenwood was not seen
for days together ; then she took her fortnight's
holidays, and came back, looking all the worse
for them. There was something wrong somewhere,
she thought; and one early morning
Daisy seized her opportunity and made a dash
at her in the ward :

How is she ? You don't tell me nothing,.
you don't,' was the old charge against the
matron.

Miss Greenwood turned white, but she was-very
calm, and even firm.

How is your sister, do you mean V she said,,
interrogatively.

No, no, yours ; is she well V

She is very well,' came the slow answer,,
which Alas accompanied by a swift walk away
from her questioner, with whom she would hold
no further converse, it was evident, that day.

Stuck up ; allers so dreadful stuck up. I do
hate the sight o' you, and no mistake,' Daisy
March said, shaking her fist after the matron.

A few days afterwards there came back to the

old prison big Janet Finlanson, the woman who
had broken out into a fit of passion because so
young a prisoner as Daisy March had fallen into
the custody of the State. Janet had worked
her way almost by a miracle to the secondary
stage of prison servitude, but it had been more
than a miracle to keep her subservient to the
rules there. She had had her feelings hurt ;
there had been a great deal to upset her in Poll
March's behaviour, and she had shivered all the
glass in the kitchen with her broom one day instead
of doing her v/ork, and had tried to knock
Poll March's brains out against the wall for
sending her contemptuous messages, and returning
the lock of her hair which she had given
her, covered thickly with salt.* Janet had been
sent back to the penal ward, with her badge
stripped from her, and all her hard work to
begin over again. She did not care, she said ;
nobody should trample upon her ; and as she
had come back, by jingo, they should have a

An insult which one female convict will occasionally
offer to another, and which invariably leads to much heartburning
and passionate outbreaks.

time of it — the lot of 'em ! And a time of it
they had.

Still, Daisy March found an opportunity to
communicate with Janet Finlanson. In a ' stiff'
which is the cant name for a written missive
surreptitiously conveyed from one prisoner to
another, and faithfully passed on till it reaches
the hands of her for whom it is intended —
Daisy, who could write a little now, asked two
questions —

Was Poll hurt ? How was the Greenwood
girl?'

She did not get her answer readily. It was
three days coming back, and was at last taken
from under the back hair of a prisoner, and
surreptitiously conveyed to her.

Here is the letter, the ink manufactured from
the smoke gathered at the bottom of a ' pint '
which had been held over the gas-jet in the
cell, and the paper a torn fly-leaf of her Bible.
Janet Finlanson had been taught to write and
spell in prison, and here is a fair specimen of
her powers of composition :

Pots had. Lade up. She sint mi air lao

saluted, art 1 rushed ser fur it. She won't cheek
mee afjane. hope I aunt hurt her to mutch, i dont
no loot u, mene his onus the other greenwood. She's
ded.'

Daisy March deciphered this epistle with
great difficulty, but, when it was mastered, she
was more like the child she looked than she
had ever been yet — a child in her passionate
abandonment to grief and the extravagant
misery of her despair. There Avere strange
depths of feeling, wild and incomprehensible
and unfathomable in this untaught nature , but
they displayed themselves only in the old, sad,
mad fashion of our female prisoners. Daisy
March ' broke out ;' the glass within reach was
shattered, the metal pint was battered out of
shape, the blankets were torn into a hundred
strips, and fighting, kicking, and screaming, this
distraught chill was carried to the penal cell
out of the way of women striving to do Avell,
but terribly quick to follow an evil example,
and only too ready to fling away all sense of
self-restraint.

It was a source of regret to more than one

female officer that Daisy March had broken out
again. The extreme youth of the prisoner had
always stood in her favour, and enlisted the
secret sympathy of the matrons in her anomalous
position ; there had been no little satisfaction
at the child prisoner becoming more childlike
and natural with the teaching of the gaol. And
now it had all to be begun again — and the
weary, heart-sickening, hops-def erred task, to
start afresh from the very beginning of this
miserable, soul-shadowing existence.

They told me a lot o' lies ; they kep it all
from me, an' she was dead all the while. I
won't go to any other prison now. Ill die here,
if I can. I won't care for anything or anybody
ever any more. I won't — I won't — I won't !'

The matron on duty came to see her every
hour, and strove to pacify her, but she would
not listen to a word. She was a fury, who
might scream herself to death in time— a demoniac,
and not human in her ravings. The
disappointment was hard to endure. Heaven
knows what thoughts had been in this young
girl's mind concerning her new life in prison,

VOL. I. R

her better life beyond it, and she did not bear
this disappointment well. She gave way completely
— so very completely that even the
matrons, accustomed to these scenes, became
alarmed, and the prison surgeon regarded her
as a being whom it was difficult to comprehend,
and beyond his power, as it seemed, presently
to save.

No one had imagined that Daisy March would
have taken the matter to heart; she was a
prison item, nothing more, and not to be
credited with more human feeling than the
rest of them, and indeed, in the early stages
of her career, she had shown herself in many
things particularly callous. But Daisy March
was not to be measured by the square and rule,
and no one understood her yet. The suspicion
that this was a character out of the common
order had been guessed at faintly, perhaps, by
Patience Greenwood, sleeping now peacefully
in a country churchyard, with all the dangers
and difficulties of prison service for ever far
removed from her.

Daisy March refused all food — fought with

those who endeavoured to give it her — was
found at last lying like a dead thing in her
cell, and was carried to the infirmary, where
she battled with a raging fever, and the bodily
weakness following the fever, for many a long
day.

r2

CHAPTER V.

THE INFIRMARY CELL.

Closely attached to the infirmary of the prison
were several cells, whither were drifted those
invalids whose refractory nature would resist
even the mild rules of the doctor, and * break
out ' on the sick beds, to the distress and discomfort
of their fellow prisoners about them.
Such women would be removed to large and
airy cells away from the general ward, and here
the ordinary attendant, very often a prison
cleaner, who had been promoted for 'sobriety
of conduct,' or general good behaviour, would
wait upon them, or occasionally a special attendant
in those extraordinary cases which are
patent to gaol life as elsewhere.

Cases of infection would be isolated thus, of
course, and Daisy March's had become one of
these. Hers had been a terrible fever, and the
authorities had become greatly alarmed for the
safety of their large flock of black sheep, and
hence Daisy March , on coming to herself, found
that she was the inmate of a large, well-ventilated
room, or cell, wherein was plenty of space,
and light, and air ; and that this cell was her
own exclusive, private apartment, for her sole
use and benefit, and with the luxury of a special
attendant to her needs.

And that special attendant, sitting with her
back towards her, seemed, to the half-dazed
intellect of Daisy March, something like a figure
she had seen before, although, mayhap, a dream
figure, one of the many by which she had been
lately most terribly perplexed, and which took
all shapes and every conceivable and inconceivable
form and face, from Patience Greenwood's,
the woman who was dead, to those * pals ' of
the Live-pool dens, from which, for a time, the
hand of the law had snatched her away.

She was too weak to speak, so she lay and

wondered till her weakness led her to close her
ejeSj and finally to faint. And so on for a day
or two, with the attendant very calm and self-possessed
and watchful, until some slight renewal
of vitality gave the sick girl strength to speak.

Then came the words out, very low and
falteringly, and with a ring of wonderment in
them which was not to be repressed.

You are her sister, then V

Yes, her sister.*

And where's this ? Prison still V

This is one of the infirmary cells,' was the
reply.

And you — what's put you here V

1 will tell you when you are stronger. Not
now.'

*I don't want to be no stronger. I don't
want to hear any think about you. I won't —
1 '

'Hush, hush!' said Kate Greenwood, rising
and bending over her. ' You forget I have a
deal to tell you, when you are a little better. '

A deal to tell me V repeated Daisy March,
slowly.

*Yes.'

About her, do you mean ?'

Yes, about her. She charged me to denver
you a message.'

'Honour bright?'

'Yes— honour bright,' replied Kate Greenwood,
earnestly.

Becos you're such a har, you are,' murmured
Daisy March.

The matron winced at this plain-speaking.

Why do you think that f she asked, softly.

You told me she was well — very well, you
said ; and all the time she was dead and gone.
And you knew she was !' cried Daisy March,
fretfully.

'There, there, you must not grow excited,
Daisy,' said Kate, in a low tone. ' I was asked
not to tell you — it was her wish that you should
not know till you had gone to the. new prison.
And she incas well, I think, in Heaven.'

You were not to tell me ?'

No ; I was not to tell you.'

That's queer. Let me know all about it tomorrow,
please, when I'm a bit less like a baby.
Will your

Yes.'

But on the morrow she was ill again, and it
was feared that the relapse would carry Daisy
March away before the message from the dead
could be delivered to her. The morrow brought
a faint ray of hope again, and though she did
not get rapidly strong, though it seemed as if
it were destined that health and strength should
come no more to her, still she lay a fragile and
faint semblance of life at last, and with the
courage to hear the story out. And this was
it, told by white, quivering hips, and from an
earnest woman's heart.

CHAPTER VI.

THE MESSAGE FROM THE DEAD.

You wasn't to tell me, you say. And why V
was Daisy March's inquiry, when she was well
enough to hear the story.

Lest it should lead you to break out, just as
it did after all when it was told you by Finland
My poor sister Patience was very anxious
you should get away from here,' replied Kate
Greenwood ; * here were the worst of prisoners,
and you were very young.'

Was she anxious V murmured the sick girl.
Well, I thought she took to me a bit ; I did,
indeed. She was not like any of the rest of
you ; no, that she wasn't.'

And on being transferred to the other prison.

Daisy, my sister had hoped that you would remain
; passing on in time to Fulham Refuge,
and from the Refuge to an honest life beyond
it,' continued the matron.

The likes o' that now. To think all that of
me, as if it could be done !'

'And 1 should have told you of this before
you went away, giving you her message, when
you were stronger of heart and had more self-control,'
said Kate. ' Do you understand me ?'

I think I do. Go on, please, and don't give
me too many hard words, if you can help it.'

When my sister Patience lay dying, she
thought of you very deeply. You seemed to
be as a dart of her life, which I had never
known. She had had strange hopes about you
a strong wish to rescue you from the old life
that has sent you here, poor child. Had she
lived, she would not have lost sight of you ; and
when your four years had been served, Daisy,
she, with God's gi-eat help, would have striven
very hard to make you better than you are ; to
put you in a fair way of beginning life again,
and beginning it well.'

She was very good,' said the sick girl,

-thoughtfully; 'but '

*But?' repeated Kate Greenwood.

But it couldn't have been done, at no price !'
*Yes — yes — it could have been done,' said

Kate Greenwood, quickly.

The girl lay and regarded the excitement of
her nurse with a faint and wondering interest ;
but she said again :

I shouldn't have been up to gi'owin' good,
like those poor critters in the tracts the lady
comes and reads to us,' said Daisy March ; ' I
wasn't born good no how. Averse never had a
good 'un in our family : nothing like one.'

Then you must leave the family, Daisy ; get
away from all of them.'

It ain't easy that,' was the reply ; * they likes
me, and I likes them. They'd do anything forme,
the lot on 'em, though we fight orful at
times.'

And " the lot "who are they?'

Daisy thought the matron particularly curious,
but she answered, very readily :

'There's the guv'nor, but he's at Portland

jest now; and mother — she keeps 'ouse, and looks
after me, and Poll, and Tom, and Teddy, when
she can.'

'When she is ont of prison herself ?' added
Miss Greenwood.

Ex'axly.'

And when in prison V

Ah ! there it is. Then we gets into a mess,
and that's 'ow Poll got here. And as I missed
Poll dreadful— for she's been allers kind to me,
she has — I thought I'd come in after her. And
much good that's done,' she added, querulously
'•' and much I've seen on her !'

Perhaps that's for the best.'

Oh ! it's easy to say that ; but didn't you like
your sister?' said Daisy March, with the blue
eyes keenly watching over the coverlet.

Yes,' was the reply, ' she was a good woman.'

I knows it,' answered Daisy ; ' and Poll's a
bad 'un. And bad 'uns like each other, too ;
they can't help it, I repose, sometimes. And,'
continued Daisy, warming with her subject,
Poll allers took my part becos I was a little
'un, and fought 'em all round at times, guv'nor

and all ; and when she was looked, and I was
left with Tom and Ted, I thought I'd rather
come here jest for peace and quietness ; and
here 1 am.'

'Out of love for your sister f inquired Kate
Greenwood.

'I don't quite know what it wos for now; I
tried to be caught, and it didn't take a long-while
to catch me, did it?' she added, with a
feeble little laugh ; ' it was the sixth case again
me, and 1 caught it hot ; jest as I calculated.'

Kate Greenwood regarded her attentively ;
even critically. In the matron's mind were
many thoughts and doubts, and the child's character
was difficult to comprehend. There were
lights and shades in it, though the shades were
terribly predominant, and only a faint thread of
gold, here and there amidst the darkness, told
of the good that might have been, with
other hands leading her away from — instead of
towards— the terrible pitfalls about her desolate
young life. To look now so very fair, and
gentle, and bright, and to have known only
the ghastly experience of sin, and to have been

trained to theft as to something that paid, even
taking into account the ' bad luck ' against it
sometimes, and the accumulation of the sentences
against it, leading at last to penal servitude.
Not fifteen years of age yet ! and presently to
go into the world with no better thoughts or
fairer hopes than when she had been locked up
away from it. The matron had had experience
herself of prison characters, had witnessed much
defiance of good, the cunning to resist right,
the awful callousness to all impressions which
sought to convey one idea of God, or hope of
heaven ; and of the power of these lower and
benighted natures to reform at all, she had become
a little sceptical. She had seen a great
deal of hypocrisy, and no true penitence, and
hence had grown — albeit a good and earnest
woman — somewhat callous in herself, the natural
outcome possibly of the fife which she had
chosen, or necessity had chosen for her.

But there had come a change to her, too,
though she hardly knew the length and breadth
of it yet ; in her sister's thoughts, her sister's
death, she had witnessed a more earnest and

hopeful nature than her own, and it had softened
and impressed her ; teaching her the lesson of
true sympathy for the poor humanity about her,
and pointing out the way, at times, to be of
service to it.

It was as if some of the kindly Christian virtues
of the younger woman had fallen to Kate
Greenwood as a legacy, which she would
treasure all the more out of the deep love for
her to whom it had belonged.

I wish you wouldn't stare at me live that,'
said Daisy March at last.

Alas I staring V murmured Kate ; * I did not
know it.'

You won't thinking' of me, I fancy. Poll
stares like that at times. Poll again !' said Daisy,
fretfully. * Blest if I can keep her out of my 'ed
at all to-day.'

I was thinking of my sister, too,' said Kate at
last, ' and in what way I should deliver you her
message.'

You've been a long while giving it a body.'

<I have.'

Go on, please. I 'spoke there's a sermon in

it ; but I can bear her preaching now. I liked
her said the child prisoner, very thoughtfully
again.

No, Daisy March, the sermon was for me, and
I have profited by it. It was to me she preached,
and taught me courage, and faith, and perseverance.
Her message to you was this ;
'* Trust in my sister Kate ; she takes my place,
and will save you if you will try to save yourself'"


'Is that all?' said Daisy March, somewhat
disappointed, ' becos I don't know as how I
make it out.'

'And she bade me say with all her heart,
what you said once to her, " God bless you." '

The girl was very silent for a while now,
and closed the blue eyes, over which the long
lashes quivered painfully. When she opened
them again, she said ;

'I am to trust you then ? She said so V

If you will.'

What are you going' to do with me V
Pray for you. Teach you to pray for yourself.'


I'm too old for that fun ; I know I am.'

You are not yet fifteen?'

Yes ; but then I never wos a child, you see
she answered, moodily ; ' and what are you
going' to make out of me here '

Oh ! not here, so much,' cried Kate, seizing
her opportunity, ' but away from here, if you
will come to me when the old, bad life Thes
further back, and the light shines upon the new :
the light of Heaven, Daisy. For ' — she added,
after a pause — ' I am going away.'

Going away ; you, too !'

I shall be waiting for you, as I promised my
sister Patience that I would, under any circumstances,'
she said ; * and you will come to me a
better woman.'

I can only try,' murmured Daisy March.

And you will try V

Yes.'

That is a promise. We can talk more of this
before I leave for good. I am hardly of the
service now, and only here by a kind permission
to act as nurse to you until you are strong
again.'

VOL. I. S

< Oh ! I don't want to get strong if you're a-
going' when I'm well.'

For the sake of her we have lost, get strong
in health, and so strong in the good pm-pose to
begin life afresh.'

*1 can but try,' said the child prisoner again,
and in a lower voice.

And try you will,' was whispered back again,
and as the old response to her.

Yes,' answered Daisy, for the second time,
jest as if she was a-watchin' on me, as they say
God watches ; don't they V

Yes, always.'

'x\ll right. I make it out a little now, I
think.'

CHAPTER VIL

MISTRESS AND MAID.

It is not necessary to dwell at much greater
length on the prison life of Daisy March, though
this is a story of the prison-land. It will' suffice
for the clearer explanation of our narrative to
say that Daisy March came by slow degrees to
convalescence, even to a fixed resolution to
amend, backed by the hope of future peace, the
fair promise of a home, the fairer promise of a
friend. She became one of the few female
convicts — terribly few, alas ! — who, without
hypocrisy, do make an earnest, upward effort,
and awaken to the sense of the horrors by which
they have been surrounded and the evils from
which it is in their power to escape. She awoke

sto

penitence ; she learned diligently to read and'
write now.; she became one of the most promising
of the prison school ; she read, and presently
she understood her Bible ; the misty land of doubt
and despair receded further and further back,
and the life in store for her grew brighter as she
gazed towards it.

She grew up a fair young woman with a very
sad and thoughtful face — they called her the
Prison Daisy, or the Prison Flower — and her
fellow convicts were proud of her, despite all her
efforts to keep good, and show herself ' Oh ! so
much better,' they added, scoffingly, ' than anybody
else.' It Alas these scoffs which were
hardest to bear up against, as they came also
from her sister, of whom she was very fond, for
whose sake she had sinned to share her prison-home,
and who, having never recovered from
her last conflict with Janet Finlanson, was almost
a confirmed invalid. Presently * Mary Wilton,'
as she had called herself upon her trial, and was
known by in the prison books, was delegated to
the infirmary, where, before Daisy March's time

was up, she died — a poor, weak, wilful woman
to the last, and resisting to the last all efforts to
amend. It is the rule which governs innumerable
lives like unto this, and which are ever
drifting away, with good men, as it seems,
powerless to save them,; it is the dark cloud forever
lowering above the miles of roofs covering
these ' prison homes,' and is charged with the
lightning which destroys.

Let us in our farewell chapters pass from this
benighted land to a brighter scene beyond it.
Here at least will be the moral to our story, the
plain truth, as old as the green hills, that the
^ ways of restoration ' are ' fashioned to the steps
of ALL infirmity \ and that the Great Hand is
stretched forth to help all sinners striving to cross
the border-land, separating the old life from the
new, the false from true, the bad from good.

Seven years afterwards two women were
seated, in the early evening of a summer's day,
on the lawn of an old-fashioned garden, in one
of the fairest portions of our Essex county. The

church clock had struck six, but there were two
hours at least of clear daylight in that bright
midsummer time, and the heat of the day had
disposed them both to linger there. They had
been talking very earnestly — the younger woman
seated on a lower seat at the feet of the elder,
and looking up into her face with an earnest,
wistful gaze, born of her deep affection.

Both women had served their apprenticeship
to sorrow long ago, and looked before them now
a trifle seriously, as if the ways of life were not
all rose-strewn paths leading unto peace, whichever
route the wayfarer might choose to strike
out for himself. And one woman, the younger
and fairer, had sinned and suffered and repented,
and we know her still as Daisy March.

The elder. Miss Greenwood, of the Larches,
*down in Essex,' — she had come into a little
property bequeathed her by Aunt Mary, and had
retired from Government — was listening attentively
to the remarks of her companion; for more
of a companion than a lady's-maid, and more of
a friend than either, had this prison waif become.
The love and gratitude of Daisy March, the

slowly failing health of Kate Greenwood, the
strange tie of prison service, even in so different
a fashion as the State had been served by each
of them, had bound their hearts together very
strongly, and the memorable past, though there
were bitter records in it, was a link that time
only riveted more closely.

Kate had worked hard for the redemption of
a stubborn nature that had-known sin, and been
trained to it from the cradle side, but here washer
reward at last, in the faithful reverence of
her handmaiden, in the sweet knowledge that
this soul had been saved from the darkness by
her efforts,her encouragement, and her example,
by that consideration for the ' fallen and degraded
of our kind,' which had been at the heart of
one good Christian, whom we have known as
Patience Greenwood.

That Daisy March had become a perfect
character in all respects, it would be a mistake
to assert — the perfect beings exist not on this
lower land. She had many faults, was not
always patient under the little trials of life, as
though some sparks of the old red fire of opposition

were smouldering still within her ; but she
strove readily to make amends for all her petty
faults of omission and commission, and at her
heart was ever the deep sense of gratitude to
set her right again, and the deeper consciousness
of all that she had escaped, and all the
peace and rest of the present life about her.

Still life had not ended yet, and Daisy March
was only one-and-twenty years of age. There
were trials and temptations yet to come — nay,
had come, for Daisy was perplexed and almost
fretful that day, and Kate Greenwood was acting
as adviser on that summer evening when we first
escape our prison world.

Daisy March had had an offer of marriage that
very morning, and it had disturbed, perplexed,
grieved her, and altogether had resulted in unsettling
her from her usual train of calm, grave
thoughts. It had come upon her unexpectedly
too — which is not often the case in feminine
history — but then Daisy March had never
thought of marrying, or giving in marriage,
knowing that the great, black past lay like a
barrier between her and any honest man who

might think what a fair young wife she would
make him. The past was dead — and as she
hoped from all memories irrevocably buried —
but it was a reminiscence to her not to be lived
down, and she would have no one in the better
life about her dream of it, save the earnest,
religious woman, whom she called her mistress.

Kate Greenwood still retained her gift of
perspicacity — she was a strangely observant
woman with the great art of not appearing to
observe, and ill-health had not weakened her
power in this respect.

But you love this Robert Halstead, Daisy,'
said the low voice of the mistress.

Oh ! I'm almost sure I don't,' cried Daisy, ' I
I have never thought of such a thing. And
as for thinking that he, he — had it ever in his
heart to think of me, I never could have fancied
that. Oh ! what made him so foolish,' cried
Daisy, bursting into tears at last, ' when there
were so many better girls about than I can ever
be.'

« Still you love this Robert Halstead V Kate
persisted in asserting.

1 didn't,' cried Daisy.

'But you do now.'

I — I don't know. I'm sure I don't though
cried Daisy, very irrelevantly.

And Robert Halstead loves you,' said Miss
Greenwood, very thoughtfully, ' and that must
be taken into consideration too, before we have
quite made up our minds what to say, and Mr.
Halstead comes here for your answer.'

My answer is, No,' said Daisy, very firmly.

You have made up your mind to that V

Yes, yes. Very decidedly, very firmly, I
have made up my mind,' answered Daisy Marchand,
oh ! my dear mistress, do not you try to
turn me from it.'

I mil make no promise yet,' said Kate Greenwood,
in reply.

I shall think you are tired of me — that you
want to get rid of me— or to tell him all the
story of my guilty past,' cried Daisy.

A past of which you have repented.'

But which I would hide for ever from the
world,' cried Daisy, * which I will hide, or die —
especially from him.'

Hush, hush, this is extravagance, not reasoning,'
reproved Kate Greenwood, ' and yon do
not know what is best.'

Do you. Miss Kate V was the rejoinder.
Well — no, not yet,' confessed the mistress.

I think I do — I'm sure I do,' said Daisy
March, * to thank Mr. Halstead for his offer, and
say — I won't have him at any price !'

What a reply ! And he ^vill ask your
reasons.'

I am not obliged to tell them.'

He will try and find out for himself then,
being a curious man.'

No, no ; I don't think he will do that.'

He will wonder what offence he has given ;
whom you love better than he, or why you
are afraid to share your life with him.'

Ah, then,' said Daisy, with a sigh, ' he must
wonder. That is all.'

We will see,' murmured Miss Greenwood to
herself.

And he — Oh ! here he comes. What shall I
do ? where shall I hide?' cried Daisy March, her
fair face flushing very crimson. She had leaped

to her feet, and would have run away into the
house, had not Robert Halstead been too close
upon her to allow of even a retreat moderately
graceful. As it was, she stood by the side of
her mistress's garden chair and looked down at
the grass, as the lover came slowly to her side.

Robert Halstead was a man some ten years
Daisy March's senior ; and, therefore, had passed
his thirtieth year. He was a stalwart young
farmer, with an honest face that looked at the
world in an undaunted fashion, and with a fearless
outlook at it, which told — unless looks were
deceptive in this instance — of much courage and
self-reliance. Hardly a handsome face, and yet
one which was worth a second glance for the
determination it expressed.

He came towards them with but little sign
of the bashful suitor in his mien ; more like a
man who expected an answer which would be
favourable to his suit than one whose heart was
failing him for fear.

Well,' he said, in a clear, ringing voice, in
which only an acute ear, such as Kate Greenwood's,
might have detected a scarcely perceptible

tremor ; ' I hope you have made up your
mind, Daisy.'

Yes,' was Daisy's answer, and without looking
into the steadfast grey eyes directed to her
half-averted face, * I have made up my mind to
say it cannot be.'

Cannot be !' he repeated, in a lower, deeper
voice.

'Yes, cannot be,' Daisy responded again.

May I ask '

Oh, no, no ; don't ask me,' cried Daisy March
at once ; ' it was what my mistress said you
would do, and I cannot bear it.'

Ay,' he said, more firmly now, ^ but it is what
I have right to ask, I think. It is what every
man has a right to ask before he goes away for
good.'

Daisy Marsh wrung her hands silently together,
but did not utter another word.

I was mistaken, then, altogether,' he said.
'I was too rough and uncultivated a fellow,
with his own way to make in the world, 'and
with no right to think of a young wife until his
place was more assured. Is that it V

No answered Daisy, quickly.

'I was too old for you, perhaps. Ten years
are a !along sight of time between man and
woman, some people think ; but it's all on the
right side, and I '

He stopped as Daisy turned away, dropped
slowly to her mistress's side and buried her fair
head on her shoulder.

Tell him not to say any more. Ask him to
go,' she murmured ; ' I cannot bear it any
longer I'

Can you not trust him with the whole
truth V whispered Kate, in the agitated girl's
ears, as Robert Halstead took one turn across
the lawn with his strong hands clasped behind
his back.

For Heaven's sake, no,' cried Daisy ; ' I
would rather die — 1 have said so, and I mean it,
than tell him what I have been. Let him go
his way.'

« Shall I tell him for you V

If you do, I will drown myself to-night,'
cried Daisy March, with the old prison fever
raging in her suddenly. It was awfully exemplified

; here was the fire lighting up again, the
^ break out threatening, and Kate Greenwood
was dismayed and silenced.

It was not till Robert Halstead was coming
back slowly to them that Kate found her voice
to say :

Trust me ; he shall never know this secret
from me.'

Thank you,' murmured Daisy; *but say
something to him which will not — not make it
seem so hard to both of us.'

I will,' was the whisper back, ' and if I can.'
Robert Halstead was close upon them ; he
had thought out his own position now, and was
prepared to speak again, and argue his case
from a new stand-point, which he trusted might
plead in his favour, but the lady of the Larches
balked him by taking up the thread of the discussion,
and acting at once as spokeswoman for
her he wished to marry.

Mr. Halstead,' she said, very calmly, ' I
think, for this poor girl's sake, it is hardly fair
to prolong a painful interview. She has made
up her mind not to leave me, and I have no

wish to part from her. It is unlikely that her
life or mine will lie apart mitil death steps iu
between us.'

Yes, women talk like that,' said Robert Halstead,
bluntly, ' but they do not mean it very
often. And you. Miss Greenwood, I should have
thought a more sensible woman than to have
talked like it at all.'

Miss Greenwood coloured at the reproof, but
she went on, very calmly :

And Daisy does not want to go away. She
and I have lived together for years, and understand
each other's ways as no two persons can
understand each other, until fidelity, and truth,,
and real affection have been proved to be something
more than words between them. And so
Daisy will not leave me ever.'

For ever is a long day, madam,' muttered
Robert Halstead ; ' and you will pardon me for
saying so, but it appears to me that there is
more of selfishness than love for Daisy March
in keeping her with you, in binding her life so
hard and fast to yours.'

Yes, it is selfish from your view of it,' confessed

Kate Greenwood ; * but Daisy March is
selfish too, and finds her happiness in my quiet
home. And,' she added, after a pause, ' she
will always find it there, unless her heart misgives
her at the eleventh hour.'

Daisy,' cried Robert Halstead, ^ say it does,
girl!'

No, no ; it does not,' answered Daisy at this
appeal.

I am almost an invalid, and require careful
attendance and much faithful service,' concluded
Kate ; ' and I should be wholly lost without this
little friend of mine ; and so she will not desert
me. She is very grateful for the osier of your
hand, but she has the courage to look you in
the face now and say it is better you should
part.'

Daisy looked up at this appeal, quick to
respond to her own share in this hard deception.


*Yes, it is much the better for us all,' said
Daisy, very firmly. * I — I should not be happy
with you.'

I can say no more,' he answered, very sadly,
VOL. I. T

save that I am dashed down completely, and
that it is my own foolish fault.'

He held out his hand to Daisy, and wrung
it in his own an instant ; then he bowed more
formally to Miss Greenwood, and went his
way.

Why have you made yourself so cruel in his
eyes V asked Daisy March, as the cock of the
wicket gate told that he had passed into the
country road.

I have been cruel to be kind,' was the enigmatic
reply.

But you have made yourself so — so unlike
yourself,' said Daisy ; * and it was not what I
wished.'

I had a reason for it.'

That he should not suspect there was a mystery,
or that there had always been a bight
about my wretched life V cried Daisy.

No, not that. And the life should be no
longer wretched to one poor child who sinned
from ignorance, and only wanted the right way
shown her to amend. Such a life, Daisy, should
be glorious, even now. Unless '

Unless !' echoed Daisy March.

Unless you love this man very much indeed.'

I love him too well to deceive him was the
answer back, ' and I am very, very happy with
you.'

That's well.'

And your reason for lowering yourself — for
being so unlike my own true-hearted mistress —
to this Robert Halstead?' asked Daisy March,
returning to the old subject which had bewildered
her, even in the rush of love-thoughts
which had come to her brain.

Ah ! that I will tell you presently replied
Miss Greenwood, with a smile.

The twilight was deepening on these figures
as they walked towards the house, the stars
were quivering over their heads, the sun had
gone down in a glory of golden flame, and the
night w^s close at band. As they passed on
together, there followed in the shadow of the
bushes the shadow of their lives — a spectre
from the old grim prison days — a wreck
drifting still more hopelessly and wreck-like
on the ocean of crime towards the barren

T 2

shore on wliicli it must break piecemeaL
They had been tracked by this outcast of the
prison. She had followed them and found
them out with much cunning, acting by orders
of men and women as .cunning as herself, and
who were lurking in their dens of London and
Liverpool unwilling to give up one clever child
whose * handy fingers ^ had done so much for the
gang, and had resulted in such handsome profit,
A genius, this Daisy March — and not to be
allowed to quit her sphere of action without
one more effort from father, mother, friends.
Without a dozen efforts, if it were necessary, for
that matter.

When the light was shining from the window
of the little parlour, where the blind remained
undrawn, and the window was left open for the
sweet summer air to cool the room in which the
two watched women sat, the watcher approached
more stealthily, and took up her position
where, in the distance, her keen sight could see
them very clearly.

It was Janet Finlanson, the woman who had
served her time out, and gone back to the old,

bad life — the woman who of late days had
made the acquaintance of the March, and had
heard them wondering what had become of a
child more than ordinarily clever, and who
would turn out a woman more than ordinarily
clever too, and make a fortune with her ready
wit and handsome face.

I think as I can find her,' Janet had said.

Tell her her mother is dying, and wants to
see her bad suggested Mrs. March, who was
very much intoxicated at that moment, and
might be — possibly was — dying fast of the drink
she took by wholesale now.

Janet had started on her expedition hopeful
of finding her ; and resolved to find her at all
hazards — being pertinacious in all things evil,
and when the evil days were free for her to act
her worst. Still Janet was^a strange woman in
her way, and had one fault or virtue. She was
prone to act on impulse — for good or for bad —
and there were moments when she was hardly
Janet Finlanson. As she approached the open
window, with the noiseless step of a sleuth
hound, there rang out clear and resonant in the

summer air the words of Holy Writ — words of
consolation and comfort to those stricken down,
words of hope to those in suffering and sin, and
of promise to the penitent, words which Janet
Finlanson had heard in the prison chapel scores
of times with deadened ears and heart, but
which vibrated awfully within her that night.
She stopped aghast, and went back a step or
two, but still where the inmates of the room
were not hidden from her view. She could seethe
well-known face of the matron bending over
the open Bible, and with a bright look upon it
that seemed hardly of the earth in that hour,
and the rapt attention on a face more fair and
young. The resignation and the trust expressed
there, touched the woman on the watch — and
such a woman! — with the live coal of a strong,
if fitful remorse. She recoiled, and went further
and further back into the gathering night,
flinging up once her arms despairingly, and as
she had done seven years ago when a child of
fourteen years of age was brought into the prison
yard.

No ! I won't have nothing to do with it.

Not me /' were the last words of Janet Finland
as she passed from the garden into the
country road lying beyond.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE WHOLE TRUTH.

Mistress and ward had read far into the night
before the Bible was closed, and they were regarding
each other with looks of fair content.
The timepiece on the mantel-shelf was striking-eleven,
a late horn for early Essex folk, as Kate
Greenwood looked round astonished not a little
at the progress of time.'

So late as that,' exclaimed the mistress, ' 1
had no idea of it.'

She had been reading very long and earnestly
; her extensive knowledge of the Scriptures
had stood her in good stead, and enabled her
to dwell upon innumerable passages which seemed,

as it were, to have been written especially
for souls stricken down as Daisy March's was
that night, despite the strong, good fight she
had made.

Yes, it is late said Daisy, ' but go on.'
Not now.'

I am resigned,' Daisy March continued, * and
my duty lies with you for good. Every hour I
see that very clearly.'

I do not see it so clearly as yourself,' replied
the elder woman, ' but I am very happy to think
of your content, in time. And if you ivill be
contented with my quiet life and ways.'

I will,' responded Daisy March.

At the same moment there came to their ears
the sound of footsteps on the lonely country
road, and both of them paused to listen, even
held their breath to listen. They were advancing
rapidly, and to one pair of loving ears they
were familiar footfalls.

He is coming back. Oh ! Miss Kate, he is
coming back,' cried Daisy, ' what shall we do
now, if he begins to talk again V

'Who

Robert Halstead. I am sure it is his step,
I would know it in a thousand.'

^ Strange !'

What is he coming back for at this time of
night f asked Daisy, trembling again.

Courage,' replied Kate Greenwood, ' we shall
see.'

They stood at the open window waiting and
watching, and the footfalls came on nearer and
nearer, approaching with strange haste. There
was a sudden pause at the gate beyond, as if
the lighted room were a surprise in its turn to
him who was advancing, and then the figure of
a man came across the lawn towards them.

Is that you, Robert Halstead f called out
Kate Greenwood.

Yes, it is I — do not be afraid,' was the deep
answer back, before Robert Halstead stood
facing them once again.

What is the matter V said both watchers at
once, as they went back step by step into the
room, followed by him who had evidently come
in search of them.

A woman has met with an accident crossing

the canal bridge, and has been carried to my
farm,' said Robert Halstead.

We can be of assistance, then,' said Kate.
Shall we come at once ? Has a doctor been
sent for?'

The doctor is there, but the woman wishes
to see Miss Greenwood before the night is out.'

Indeed !'

Her name is Janet Finlanson, and you, Miss
Greenwood, she says, will remember her asa
prisoner once under your charge.'

Yes,' replied Miss Greenwood, very calmly,
I remember her very well.'

You have been in prison service, then, Miss
Greenwood V

^1 was a prison matron for three years or
more,' was the answer back.

'I did not know that,' he said. Then he
looked wistfully and very sorrowfully at her
whom he had asked that day to be his wife, and
added : ' I have not been trusted very much
with the history of your lives, and I had no
right to expect that' you should tell it to me.
Only '

Only,' repeated Daisy and Kate.

Only you might have trusted me. It would
have been so much the best.'

Has Janet Finlanson said anything more V
asked Miss Greenwood.

She is wild in her statements — altogether a
strange and uncontrollable woman,' was his
evasive answer ; ' but she is anxious to see you
both, to ask your forgiveness and advice. Put
you both, as she says, on your guard.'

Is she in danger?'

There is no immediate danger.'

I will go to her now. But why does she
want to see Daisy V inquired Kate Greenwood.

She wishes to see you both, I have said.
She has mentioned both your names,' answered
the farmer, looking hard at Daisy.

'What — what has she said about me?' was
asked now, in a troubled voice.

She has told me all she knew,' he replied.

Daisy clasped her hands together for an
instant, and then spread them before her face.
Kate Greenwood came back from the doorway
and stood beside the girl she had sheltered and

saved ; the protector to the last, if any help were
needed.

She has told you what I was ?' murmured
Daisy.

Yes,' was the reply ; ' but '

But you do not believe it,' said Daisy. ' Oh !
it is true enough, God knows.'

But it has made no difference in my thoughts
of you,' he answered very earnestly ; * and that
is what I was going to say when you interrupted
me. Yes, I know all the story, Daisy; I
have insisted upon knowing it, and it is a record
of salvation surely. You stepped from darkness
to light ; you have repented. You began a new
life here with this good woman at your side ; you
have made restitution.'

I think you understand her now,' said Kate
Greenwood, very softly.

And it was for this, then, Daisy, that you
would not become my wife?' he asked.

I was unfit to be your wife, Robert. And I
did not want you to guess what 1 had ever been,'
she cried. ' I — I would so much rather have died
than have had you know.'

It is as well I do.'

He was leaning over her and endeavouring to
draw her hands down from her face, but she
resisted him. Kate Greenwood moved once
more towards the door.

I will get my bonnet on,' said she ; and
Robert Halstead looked gratefully towards her,
when Daisy cried :

Don't go : oh ! don't go.'

Kate paused again ; and Robert Halstead
said :

It is right you should remain for a minute or
two longer, if you will.'

Very well.' And Kate went back to the
side of Daisy March ; and once more the arm
was passed round the neck of the weeping
girl.

I'm a rough fellow in my way, Daisy,' said
Robert ; ' and say things out very plainly, and I
fear I have offended you.'

No, no.'

'That's well. I am doubtful if I am a religious
man,' he said, ' but I do not look back at the
past of any man or woman if the present tells

of a worthy and earnest life ; and that is true
religion, possibly.'

It approaches it,' answered Miss Greenwood,
but it is not religion.'

What is it ?' he asked, quickly.

Charity.'

And Mercy,' murmured Daisy March.

Well, let it be Faith and Hope as well, or
lead to them,' he answered. * I am alone in the
world, and without the world to take into consideration
; and I am unhappy alone, and without
you, Daisy. Let the past go back from us ;
you and I can look forward to the future, trusting
in each other.'

Can you ever trust me V murmured Daisy.

With all my heart, I will,' answered Robert
Halstead.

I must have time to think, to make up my
mind,' said Daisy ; ' it is all so like a dream tome.
You know now, at least, that it was out of
respect for you and your good name that I said
No, to-night. 1 felt myself unworthy, though I
dared not tell you so.'

I thought you loved me a little, perhaps a

great deal, but Miss Greenwood threw me aback
and confused me. I went away, madam,' he
said, turning to Kate, ' thinking it was all your
fault.'

That is what I wanted you to think,' Kate
answered; 'what I schemed for after my woman's
fashion.'

Daisy looked up now, and for the first time.

Kate went on :

I wanted you to think it was my selfishness
that stood in the way, and not her affection. I
wanted you to wait for her, to give her time ; to
see, as time went on, that her heart was, after
all, in your honest keeping. And I thought,' she
added, * that, in that good time, she might be led
to tell you all the truth, and you to pardon it for
her sake.'

*As I have done, at once. And if I have any
right to pardon.'

You will look not back to the past, but to the
future, together.'

He took Daisy's hands in his, and she did not
withdraw them from him now ; but she whispered,
in a lower tone :

That past is so terribly black !'

But the future has the light of Heaven on it

answered her lover.

Heaven !' repeated Daisy March.

VOL. I.

THE LUCK OF LUKE Hands.

CHAPTER L

MY lady's chapel.

It was a quaint little village that of Felspar.
It is still a quaint village, although Felspar is
famous in its way now, and has one big hotel in
the valley, and by the stream which falls headlong
from the hills to a boulder-broken channel,
where the water fumes and froths and rushes
by, a mass of seething silver in the smi. The
hotel does well in the summer time, because
there are curiosities in Felspar, and tourists and
geologists come to see them ; because there are
fine bits of English hill scenery and woodland,

pine-trees and white, weird tors, and artists
come to paint them ; because the guide-books
have written up Felspar, and it is fashionable to
see it, and fashionable folk, being sheep-like,
come in droves in the season with odd-looking
shepherds to keep an eye upon them sometimes.
But our story is of Felspar before it woke up,
and found itself famous, and of a certain humble
individual who helped to make it famous, and
who, without a dream of greatness, fortunate
fellow that he was, had greatness thrust upon
him. There are some lucky people in the world
even of a world not lying back more than
fifteen years from present date.

Fifteen years ago, then. Felspar was only
known to a few in the county in which it was
hiding, and to the people who lived and died in
the little nest of cottages clustered by the searched
stone bridge crossing the babbling brook;
to the inhabitants of the bigger village ten
miles away, and to a few folk in the nearest
town, twenty miles off as the crow flies, the
town that had a railway-station all to itself, and
was a flourishing place, and had waters which

cured gout and rheumatism and general bone-disagreements,
and was at all times and seasons
running over with every variety of cripple and
contortions.

Felspar, fifteen years ago, was only running
over vdth every variety of beauty — which it
had completely, which those living in it day by
day did not seem to value, for they were a
homespun, matter-of-fact lot, whose only thought
was how to live, but who clung to the place
because their fathers and grandfathers had clung
to it before them, struggling in the summer on
a-few-shillings-a-week's wage to rear a large
family — and rearing it ! — and fighting with the
winter always desperately, and dying in the
fight now and then.

It was getting on for winter, when the days
were cold and the nights set in very early in
the Felspar valley, although the leaves had not
shaken themselves off the trees, and there were
rare autumnal tints about for those who cared
to notice them, and nobody did care. * Leaves
brownish,' was the one verdict, and there was
an end of it, just as in the City sometimes.

money's tights,' and then there is an end of
that.

And yet, if anyone noticed the beauty of the
autumn in the valley, it was Peggy Brantwell,
a pretty girl acclimatised to much out-of-door
occupation, with her grandfather's pigs and
poultry to look after, and two cows to milk, and
her grandfather to keep in a good temper, and
make sure that his poor old legs took him up
safely to bed in the early evening before ' a
sight of candle-light ' was wasted. Peggy was
a beauty in her way, or rather had been a
beauty in her day, for she was seven-and-twenty
now. She was a favourite with Felspar folk,
who thought her grandfather was hard upon
her, and put upon her, like an old curmudgeon
as he was, they said, old Brantwell being as
generally disliked as are most people who give
themselves airs, and are better off than their
neighbours. Why Peggy had grown up so
amiable and lovable a little woman under the
guardianship of Matthew Brantwell no one exactly
could make out, and why, when it was
rumoured he was not kind to her, and said hard

things, and taunted and suspected her, and
threatened her even with turning her out of
house and home, she did not take him at his
word, and get ' op and foot o' it,' the Felspar
community did not understand. But the Felspar
community was not quick of comprehension
; they were fully certain Peggy could have
done better for herself than remaining all these
years her grandfather's drudge — that Lady Glide
up at the Hall would have been glad long ago
to have had her for lady's-maid, and trained
her for a lady's-maid; they did not think it
possible that there could be any affection for
an irritable, rasping, ungenerous old hunks who
gave nobody a good word ; she might be waiting
for her grandfather's money — which, with
his usual spirit of contrariness, he would be sure
to leave elsewhere — but it was impossible to
say what she teas waiting for. Unless — she was
waiting for Luke Shands, which we may say at
once was exactly the fact of the case.

Perhaps, to put it more politely, it would
have been graceful to say Luke Shands was
waiting for her ; but, as they're waiting for

each other, it matters not a great deal, and
looking at it either way is to look at it in the
right light.

Matthew Brantwell, however, did not look at
it in the right light at all ; they were waiting
till he was dead, he said ; he was sure they were
waiting till he was dead and gone, but he was
not a-going to die to oblige either of them.
His father had lived till ninety-four, and he was
only seventy-three next bean-feast, and, bar his
cussed legs, he was as good a man as any in
Felspar, and, if they were waiting for his death
and his money, never were two people more
mistaken in their lives. As they would see, see
if they wouldn't, rabbit 'em for a selfish, aggravating,
greedy pair !

But Ave are not waiting for your death,
grandfather,' Peggy said, on the autumn day
to which we have already alluded ; ' I shall be
only too glad if you'll live to be as old as
Methuselah.'

I shouldn't be surprised if I did.'

No,' said Peggy, laughing.

There's been some wonderful ages in my

family. I don't see anything to laugh at in the
idea said Mr. Brantwell.

Oh, you're not an old man yet, grandfather
said Peggy, as she bustled about the room preparing
the afternoon tea for her relative. ' There
are plenty in Felspar older than you, and plenty
younger who look as old already.'

Because they never took care of themselves
he said, ' but spotted away their time at the
Quarry Inn' and sat up till nine or ten night
after night, like them rackety Londoners. Because
— but ain't you in a mortal hurry to get
tea over to-night?'

'What a question !' said Peggy, briskly ; 'is
it any earlier?'

It's a good bit earlier said her observant
grandfather; ' the shadow across the floor was
longer yesterday afternoon by fourteen inches
afore the kettle boiled.'

I didn't notice the shadow,' said Peggy.

But it was.'

Indeed !'

Very well — it was, then. x\nd it was later
in the afternoon, o' course. And you know it

was later. And you had a reason for its being
later yesterday, or earlier to-day, and it's no use
trying to trick me,' he snapped.

I am not trying to trick you, grandfather.'
'Yes, you are. You had a reason.'

Well — I had a reason,' Peggy confessed.
You're a-going out.'

Yes— for a little while.'

To meet that Luke. You know you are.'

No, I'm not going to meet that Luke,' replied
the grand-daughter. ' I'm not thinking of such
a thing.'

'Oh, ain't you exclaimed the irritable old
man, bringing his broad brown hand with a
formidable slap into the tea-tray, and causing a
considerable commotion amongst the crockery
in consequence. ' Then why can't you be fair
and straight, and say what you are going todo
? Why can't you tell me you want to choke
me off with tea before I've got the dinner down
my throat, and to put me into bed again afore
I'm hardly got out of it, or it's had time to cool?
I hate such artful ways.'

Grandfather, what has disturbed you to-day?'

I ain't disturbed

You are not very often like this.'
Yes, I am.'

Not often quite as hard as. this, I think,' said
Peggy, in a calm, half-wondering way, which,
if it had not been natural, would have been
very aggravating. But Peggy was really surprised
by the extra energy which her grandfather
had contrived to throw into the conversation
that afternoon.

I shall be harder soon, if that's any comfort
to you,' was the final remark of this amiable old
gentleman ; after which he went to bed, though
the sun was still shining, and it was half an
hour before his usual time. Indeed, the alacrity
with which he had taken himself off would have
aroused the suspicions of most folk ; but Peggy
was not distrustful — on the contrary, very, very
trustful — or she would not have waited all this
while for Luke Shands, and Luke Shands' luck,
which was generally going the wrong way to
which he was.

Five minutes after her grandfather had gone
to bed, Peggy had put on her neat little straw

hat, and was out of the house and tripping
along the high-road. Had she looked back, she
would have seen the head of old Matthew
craning out of the front window watching her.
Had she waited at the bend of the road, she
would have found old Matthew there five minutes
afterwards; and, had she hidden herself
behind the great sprawling brambles, she would
have seen Matthew bribe little Tom Grasp — a
ragged youth, who professed to mind the sheep
in Owen's fields, and spent his time in flinging
stones at crows — to follow her, and bring him
back the news where she had gone ; to make
all the haste he could too, because he, Matthew
Brantwell, did not want to be out of his bed
much later than his usual time.

But Peggy, unmindful of all this treachery,
had gone on her way with grave composure,
steadily and swiftly. She had turned from the
high-road, or the apology that there was for a
high-road in so break-neck a part of the country
as Felspar, and gone down into the valley, deep
down into the lower path by the side of the
stream, where the trees arched overhead, and

the way was thickly hidden now by rusting
dead leaves.

Presently she crossed a little plank across the
stream, and went up from the valley by degrees,
making for the higher ground by a steep ascent
through trees and bushes, which hid the way
from those below. Here a hundred or a hundred
and fifty feet from the valley's level, and
a quarter of the way to the summit of the gi'een-
crested tor, she paused at a strange fissure in
the rock, which she could now touch with her
hands, and looked around at the fair English
landscape lying beneath her steeped in autumn
tints.

It had been a sharp ascent, and she might
have paused to get her breath, only she was
light of foot, and not half as ' blown ' as Tom
Grasp, who, lying on his stomach amongst the
bracken, was panting like a puppy-dog.

Peggy Brant well was waiting for something,
it was evident. She crossed her hands, and sat
down on a. boulder that had slipped in times
remote from the summit, and was covered now
with lichens and mosses, and here she waited

patiently, looking along the valley, a pretty
iSgure that any artist would have loved to
sketch. There was just a little expression of
anxiety on her face even, as she gazed towards
the sun dipping slowly behind a cloud-bank
of purple and gold — a sun which she watched
sink at last with all the devout expression of
a fire-worshipper. Then, as the edge of the
disc disappeared, she turned round, darted into
the cleft of the rock, and was gone.

The cleft widened after a few steps over some
rough, loose shingle, and here, well out of the
draught, Peggy lighted a candle which she had
brought with her, and went on groping her way
steadily forward into the heart of those grand
old cliffs, which have been the wonder of geologists
of late years, but which no one thought a
great deal about in Peggy's time.

Peggy's best time, that is — for Peggy lives
and flourishes still, and has grown very stout
and buxom, and laughs when she tells this
story, as she has told it to the present writer —
with all the fears and troubles in the background
of some fifteen dusty years, and with the

sunshine, as she says, ' round about her everywhere.'
And yet it was Peggy's best time, for
her good looks, and health and strength of
youth, and the faith and courage of love, and
in the belief even in old country superstitions,
which she clung to with the rest of the good
folk in Felspar, who believed in ' all the wonders,'
just as unsophisticated Peggy did.

But Peggy was showing her belief by acts,
having great faith, poor little dreamer that she
was. And the proof was in this desperate expedition,
and in the sudden dropping down on
her knees in a ragged, jagged part of the
cavern, which had widened out into some semblance
of a rough-hewn room, and in planting
her candle on an anvil-shaped rock that stood
ill the centre, uncommonly handy for catching
unawares the knee-caps of rash explorers. And
had anyone been listening, which there was not
for Tom Grasp would not have followed her
into ' My Lady's Chapel ' for the wealth of
Felspar, and was even lurking outside with his
hair on end — he would have heard this extraordinary
appeal to the hidden genius of the
VOL. I. X

place, supposed to be propitiatory to all intercessions,
if uttered five minutes after sundown,
neither more nor less, because her ladyship
loved punctuality, objected to be kept waiting,
and, it was possible, had important business
elsewhere :

Lady of the Grey Tor Chapel (this repeated
three times), listen to me, Peggy Brantwell, speaking
with all her heart, as all must speak who enter
here, please bring luck to my clear Luke, change his
had luck into good, and help us all you can. No
one has seen me come in, no one shall see fine come
out. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven (which,
being exactly the number of letters in Felspar,
was supposed to be the principal part of the
ceremony). A, h, c, d (to the end of the
alphabet). High, low. Jack, game. Amen.' Here
our superstitious heroine blew out her candle,
deposited it as a votive offering to the gods on
the extempore altar, and groped her way cautiously
and timidly through the fissure to the daylight,
which shone at last ahead of her, and
which she was so long in discovering that she
began to fear she had taken a wrong turning.

and was coming out at the other end of the
world.

There was only twilight left in fact, when she
emerged from My Lady's Chapel, and it had not
pierced very far into the shadows. It would be
pitch dark night before she got home to her
grandfather's, she was afraid. Never mind, she
had succeeded in her mission, and perhaps luck
would turn now. At all events, she had done
her best to make it turn, and no one could blame
her afterwards. And no one had seen her come
out, and — Yah !

Peggy gave vent to a very substantial, unromantic,
and high-pitched yell, for exactly in
front of her, and evidently highly amused by her
exit from the cave — * grinning like a goose ' she
called it afterwards, and in her hot indignation
was Luke Shands.

END OF THE First VOLUME.

LONDON : DUNCAN MACDONALD, PRINTER, BLENHEIM HOUSE.

LI B R.ARY

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

eras

V. 2.

& SON'S

3N LIBRARY,

188, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.

NOVELS ARI ISSLEO TO AND RECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

6 Months. i2 Month*.

For ONE Volume at a time £0 12 1 l

(hovers tn more than One t otume art not available /or this class of Subscription.)

For TWO Volumes „ . 17.8 Ill 6

(,\<rvels in more than Trio volumes are not available /or this class o/ Subscription.)

For THREE Volumes „ 1 a 2 2

For FOUR „ „ 1 8 2 10

For SIX „ „ 1 15 3 3

For TWELVE „ „ 8 6 5

(>

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

The person charging this material is responsible for its

renewal or return to the library on or before the due date.

The minimum fee for a lost item is $125.00, $300.00 for

bound journals.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons

for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from

the University. Please note: self-stick notes may result in

torn pages and lift some inks.

Renew via the Telephone Center at 217-333-8400,

846-262-1510 (toll-free) orcirclib@uiuc.edu.

Renew online by choosing the My Account option at:

http://www.library.uiuc.edu/catalog/

AND

OTHER TALES.

VOL. II.

AND

OTHER TALES

BY

F. W. ROBINSON

AUTHOR OF

"grandmother's money," "NO CHURCH,'

"THE COURTING OF MARY SMITH,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. n.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

PAGE

The Luck of Luke Sh.\nds (Continued).

11. 'The Quarrelling of Lover,' etc., etc. . 3

III. A Sunday Bargain 11

IV. The Luck turns in good Earnest . . '22

Jacob and Polly 33

Dick Watson's Daughter 57

To BE Called For . . . . ■ . . .113

Too Much of a Discovery 157

Another Man's Wife 205

A Big In'\tst.aient 253

The Stone Bouquet 297

(Continued.)

VOL. II.

CHAPTER IL

THE QUARRELLING OF LOVERS IS,' ETC., ETC.

Luke Shands was a very fine specimen of
Felspar manhood, and manhood ran there to six
feet one, as a rule. Luke had run over. He
was six feet two, with a chest like a bull's, and
hands like sledge-hammers. Why a man with
such latent force in him should have been for
twenty-five years of his life such an unlucky
fellow — a sober, hard-working young herdsman
as he was, too — is not to be accounted for anymore
than why he should be so particularly good-tempered
over it. He was always laughing,
even at his own bad luck ; he would have his

b2

jest, and be none the worse for it. That he hac
never been able to save money enough to marry
Peggy Brantwell was the only thing he had not
roared with laughter at ; but there were odd
little points of hum oin\ about that even which
made him smile, if with a little effort at times,
like a twinge in the wrong place. And there
he was laughing at Peggy's surprise and fright
and discomfiture, as at a huge joke which really
was worth a little extra hilarity that evening.

Did you see me come out V she asked,
quickly.

Yes, of course I did.'

'Then it's all spoiled, and I've had my trouble
for nothing ; and you ought to be ashamed of
yourself for following me about in this way,'
cried Peggy. ' I — I shall never forgive you,
Luke,' she added, whimpering, ' never.'

I'm sorry I've put you out, lass said Luke,
becoming suddenly grave, ' and, of course, I
didn't mean it — but what have you been assaying
of to the lady ? Now come — a clean breast
of it. Won't your

How did you know I was up here V

Cock-eyed Dobson,' he explained as they
proceeded down the winding path together,
told me he'd seen you go by, and I thought
you had gone to Mother Twitters, who's doAvn
with flimsy, and wheezes awful. And then I
caught sight of Tom Grasps sneaking and dodging
about the bushes, and I followed him. And
I scared him a bit,' said Luke, with a sudden
and prodigious roar of laughter, which scared
Peggy in her turn, and made her slip a step or
two ; ' and he went home in a hurry. Hadn't
sou better take hold of my hand V

I don't want your hand."

You're not as sure-footed as usual, lass. It
was Tom,' he continued, 'who told me you'd
gone up to yon chapel.'

Tom's a sneak. I'll never give him a halfpenny
again.'

He's not worth it.'

And I'll never forgive you,' she added, ' spying
and prying after me like this, just as if —
just as if — you thought I was — I was not to be
trusted by myself, for a moment. It's not fair.
It's not like you.'

'No ; it's not like me,' asserted Luke, ' and it's
not like you, lass, to come a-clambering up
here and saying in the cave all sorts of gibberish
that a pack of silly women have been a-
talking to you about. Mother Twitters for one,
I'll be boimd. I know her.'

Never mind,' said Peggy, startled by Luke's
proximity to the truth, and taking refuge in a
phrase that committed her to nothing, and at
the same time asserted that spirit of independence
which he had aroused.

It's not as if you haven't been sensibly brought
up,' said Luke, gravely, ' or were one of those
wenches in the village. It's just the sort o*^
thing I can't abide in man or woman, Peggy ;
hardly in a child. I can't abide it.^

Then don't abide it,' said Peggy, pertly ;
that doesn't matter to anybody, I suppose.'

I should hope it would matter to you,' he
said tenderly, now, * and if it don't matter what
I say or think, why, you're not my Peggy, but
some other lass who's come out of My Lady's
Chapel instead of yourself.'

You shouldn't make me angry.'

You shouldn't have gone up there all alone,
Peg he said, reproachfully ; ' there's some rough
fellows at the quarries about, and it's late and
dark. And you might have fallen, and it's a
steep way down too. Catch hold of my hand
—do.'

No, thank you, Mr. Shands.'

Luke Shands looked gi-avery at her, and then
said:

I shouldn't have thought it of Peggy Brant-well,
if anybody had told me but herself, that
she could go off in a tiff and temper because the
man who Hies her was afraid she might come to
harm. I couldn't have believed it.'

It isn't as — as if '

And then Peggy, meeting a sob on its way
upwards, made a gurgling noise, and swallowed
it to disguise her emotion.

And blest if I believe it even now,' he added.

I — I didn't want to be seen.'

Just as my luck has turned, too — just as a
little streak of good luck seemed coming to you
and me — that you should go on Hke this,' he
said.

'And snap me up just like that old grandfather
of yours. I wish,' he cried, a little crossly himself,
that I may never be lucky again, if this is to be
the end of it

Oh ! you wicked '

And then Peggy burst into tears, and frightened
Luke, who drew her more closely to his side,
and soothed and caressed her, and was very
nearly crying too. Thus the storm ended, and
the sheet Lightning flickered away, and before
the lovers had reached the village they were
laughing and talking together, and the best of
friends.

And what is the good luck, Luke f she asked,
as he did not speak of it again, indeed — such is
the aggravating habit of the male sex in general
seemed to carefully avoid a subject upon
which he knew she would be anxious. ' Why
don't you tell me V

^ Well— Uncle Ribton's dead.'
'Oh!' exclaimed Peggy, 'how dreadful!
And you call that luck V

Well— Uncle Ribton never saw any of us

for years — he wasn't unlike your grandfather,
I've heard, not but what lies very pleasant at
times if he likes. Fve no cause to fret much
because Uncle Ribton's dead. I don't even remember
what he was like when he was living,
you see.'

That makes a difference,' said Peggy,
thoughtfully.

And, as he has no relations so near as I am,
the lawyer wrote to me to-night to say I've
come in for his pigs.'

His what V

His pigs. He was a pig-dealer in Celtes
Haven't you heard me say so V

Did you get that letter by this afternoon's post ?'

Yes.'

Just at sundown ? That was when I was
praying for good luck to you, Luke.'

Were you, though ? Well, that's a little
strange, ain't it,' said Luke, ' and for me too.
Bless you, Peggy, let me kiss you for that
before we go any further.'

That little ceremony having been gone
through satisfactorily, Peggy said :

*It doesn't seem to matter anyone seeing
me go in or out of the "Chapel" — Fm sa
glad;

Perhaps something happen to spoil it
said Luke, with another long laugh, * as it has
not been done according to Mother Twitters — it
was Mother Twitters that put all that nonsense
into your head, wasn't it, now V

Well, Mrs. Twitters did mention it,' Peggy
confessed.

Your grandfather said long ago she was a
witch, and ought to be drowned.'

Poor thing ! And how many pigs are there,
Luke V asked Peggy, returning to the main
subject ; for upon those pigs hung the destiny
of this young couple.

Five ; and one of 'em's blind,' replied Luke.

'Oh, good gracious, all this fuss about five
pigs !'

It's a stroke of luck,' said Luke Shands again.

CHAPTER HI.

A SUNDAY Bargain,

Luke lived all alone in a tumble-down, one-doomed
shanty, close to the hills of Felspar. He
was worse housed than even Felspar folk were
housed as a rule. The Irish mud huts were
roomy and capacious in comparison with many
of the domiciles where the villagers of this
remote district drew the breath of life.

It was a cottage perched by itself some ten
feet below the level of the narrow path in front
of it, so that a spiteful person passing by could
have easily kicked the roof off, and it possessed
a back garden of some twenty feet in length,
ending abruptly with the white, blank hill-side,
a colossal wall of four hundred feet which

hovered above it and shut out air and light.
In the distance, from the valley and the lower
ground, Luke Shands' cottage seemed growing
out of the jagged limestone like a wen, but there
was room in the garden behind for the pigs, if
those animals would not object to a little overcrowding.


And Luke had brought his pigs home, and
]matthew Brant well, a shrewd business man in
his old age, toddled over to see them, and to
see too what could be. done. Whether Luke
could not be * done ' might be added, even without
reflecting too severely on the character of
Matthew, who was certainly an unreasonable
and covetous old gentleman. Everybody knew
that — even Luke, who thought the best of most
people, Mrs. Twitters excepted, had his suspicions
of it, though he made a great deal of
allowance for the eccentricities of Peggy's
grandfather.

For Peggy's sake, and at Peggy's wish even,
Luke was always extra civil to matthew Brant-well,
a civility which was not often reciprocated,
Matthew's temper being a bad one. For

Peggy's sake even he was living in this cottage,
as a tenant of Mr. Brant ell's, at four
pounds per annum, a sum of money for which
Luke might have secured quite a comfortable
room at Cock-eyed Dobson's, and without the
bother of housekeeping. But Matthew had persuaded
Luke two years ago to take the establishment
after his mother's decease, and Luke
had thought it as well to please the old gentleman,
not caring much where he lived until he
settled down for good with Peggy. It was
only to sleep in ; all day he was in the valley,
or on the hills with the sheep, and in the early
evening he was courting Peggy — Sunday excepted,
when he and she walked seven miles to
church in the afternoon, with three or four other
devout inhabitants of Felspar, the rest of them
stopping at home from year's end to year's end.

It was on Sunday morning that Matthew
called on Luke, who was shaving by a bit of
glass hung up in the front window, which
Matthew banged at with his walking-stick and
cracked.

'I've come to see the pigs,' said Matthew,

who was an authority on pigs. 'Peggy tells
me you've had quite a bit of legacy.'

Yes, Master Matthew, I call it luck myself.'
Your Uncle Ribton and I have done many a
stroke of business together, Luke,' said the old
man ; ' and if he had lived twenty-four hours
longer I should have had those pigs, and there' d
been a matter of — well, ten pounds, very likely,
in his stocking instead.'

Oh !' said Luke, as he put away his shaving
tackle, 'I've heard they're worth a lot more
than ten pounds. But I ain't a judge of
pigs.'

They're very ugly.'

They're uncommon ugly,' asserted Luke,
but they're very healthy.'

They'll eat you out of house and home.'

Yes — they do eat,' said Luke, with a sigh,
*but there's a chance of getting their own
living down the valley. I let them out everyday.'


You'll lose 'em.'

Oh, they know their way back to supper,'
said Luke, with one of his laughs, ' trust them.

But they're so aggravating, 1 wish they wouldn't
come back sometimes.'

Why don't you sell 'em, then ? You're notable
to keep 'em in ease and comfort, as a pig
should be kept, any more than you have ever
been able to keep yourself — though 1 say it as
shouldn't, perhaps — in ease and comfort. But
I'm a plain-speaking man.'

You are, sir.' •

Why don't you sell the pigs, then ?'

Bless your heart, I'm going to,' said Luke.

t Eh— what ? What's that you say V

I'm going to sell them, and bank the money,

before the winter comes on. At least, I'm going

to sell four of 'em.'

Well — well then, what do you want for the

four V asked Matthew. ' That's what I've come

all this beastly way for — and my legs so bad

too — to ask if I should take 'em off your hands.

The five, I mean — I want the lot. What's the

use of keeping one pig T

I shall stick to the blind one,' said Luke,

very firmly.

Why V

Well, my old mother was blind the last two
years of her life, and the pig reminds me of her
very much.*

Matthew Erantwell sneered at this touch of
sentiment, but he said no more about the blind
pig just then.

Let's look at them,' he said, shortly.

They passed into the Httle space behind the
house, where were the five animals, all with
their noses turned towards the gate which shut
them out of the valley. Luke was right — they
were uncommonly ugly. A misshapen, rhinoceros
kind of pig, four of them red-eyed, as
though they had been crying, and the fifth
with his eyes bunged up for ever.

The sight of them excited the cupidity of
Matthew Brantwell.

' I'll give you twenty pounds for the lot.
Say it's a bargain, and don't be a fool, Luke,'
he said.

I can't drive a bargain on a Sunday, Master
Brantwell,' answered Luke; 'not that I'm a
religious man, hard and fast as I ought to be —
but I promised Peggy I never would again.'

'Peggy's always got some nonsense in her
head, and a-interfering about something.'

Peggy's always right, only she's a bit superstitious.
Nothing ever came right that was
done on a Sunday, I've heard her say over andover
again, bless her.'

'Never mind about Peggy'. We're talking
about pigs, ain't we T

I'd rather not talk about them any more till
Chipstoke comes to see them.'

Chipstoke— what, from Rounded Pikes?'
exclaimed Matthew.

That's the man.'

What do you want to see him for V

I don't know that I want to see him,' replied
Luke. * fie sent me word last night he wanted
to see me. That's all. Except that he said,
Don't part with the pigs till I've made you a
good bid." '

Selfish beast,' said Matthew, * that's like him
I know him of old — and then he'll offer you
less than I have. See if he doesn't. He'll want
them for a mere song, and you'll be soit
presently you didn't let me have them.'

VOL. II. C

I don't say I won't sell them to you. You're
Peggy's grandfather

To be sure I am — Peggy's grandfather,
exactly so.'

And you shall have them for what he offers
me — there.'

'Oil'

Matthew Brantwell seemed checkmated for a
moment. What might not Chipstoke offer if
dead-set ' on these pigs, and knowing what
pigs they were ? And what might not Chip-stoke
make of them, being an expert in pigs — a
specialist — a pig-collector ?

Luke, if you don't let me have these pigs
now, I'll forbid you ever coming to my house
again,' he spluttered forth. 'I'll move out of
Felspar, and take Peggy with me. I'll go and
live in London ; I'll be shut of you altogether.'

Good Lor' !' exclaimed Luke, in horror.

1 hate Chipstoke — and he mustn't stand afore
me.'

Of course not,' said Luke. ' I never said he
should.'

Look here, Luke Shands. I'll tell you what

I'll do. I'll give you this cottage — this freehold
property — for them. There, you're rent-free for
life — needn't' worry about rent any more— can
save up, and build another little room here
presently, so that when you marry Peggy '

When — I marry Peggy !' cried Luke. * Yes,
yes, go on.'

Well, it will come to that some day, I daresay,'
said the old man. ' At all events, when
you marty somebody, you can take her to a
good roomy place, as this would be, and say
here's our home — rent-free — now and for ever.
And you may keep the blind pig — there.'

Done !' cried Luke.

Done !' echoed Mr. Brantwell,

The two men shook hands, and clenched the
contract.

We'd better not say anything about this to
Peggy till it's all settled,' said Luke, after a
little reflection ; ' as it is a Sunday bargain,
after all.'

Certainly not. Not a word to Peggy.'

Shall I give you a bit of writing about

itr

o2

Yes ; and date it Saturday, Luke. It look
so much better, too.'

It is astonishing how quickly that bargain
was concluded, and how the freehold of Luke's
cottage was made over to Luke by a lawyer
Who came from Neltescombe on purpose, and
how Luke became his own landlord, and felt
very proud of the new position he had secured.
But when he met Peggy the day after the four
pigs had gone home, leaving their blind companion
in Mr. Shands' possession, a little light
even a strong, lurid light — was thrown upon
the whole transaction.

'Luke, do you know what you have done?'
she cried, with tears in her pretty blue eyes,
'and done without telling me anything about it,
of course V

Done ? Yes ; got a house of my own over
my head, at last.'

You great big silly, what's the good of such
a place as this ? You might have bought it for
less than fifty pounds at any time, and you've
let him have four pigs.'

'Well?'

*And they're exhibition pigs — prize things,
and Avorth forty pounds apiece. And grandfather
has sold them already, and is laughing at
you.'

'Your gi-grandfather is a sharp old man, and
I'm a dull young ass,' said Luke, looking very
gi'SLve.

And that was all he had to say at Matthew
Brantwell's ' besting ' him.

I knew something would happen to you for
watching me at " My Lady's Chapel," ' said
Peggy. 'I knew what it would come to. I
wonder where it will end now.'

I wonder what that blind one's worth V said
Luke.

CHAPTER IV.

THE LUCK TURNS IN GOOD EARNEST.

The blind pig was not worth much — indeed,,
was not of the same ' strain,' and was not even
fit for pork when the winter set in in real
earnest, and the animal caught cold, and went
blundering about the back yard, coughing like
an old man, or leaning against the rock at the
end of the garden, too weak to get round the
premises without taking a good rest by the way.
The pig suffered very much from cold, and
Luke, being a good-tempered and feeling fellow,
took the animal indoors for one night on the
Hibernian system, when it had a shivering fit
that nearly brought the house down, and

screamed so loudly to get out again, that Felspar
thought there was murder doing somewhere
in the valley, and ran for the one policeman
of the place — who had gone ten miles over
the hills to a supper-party, and could not be
brought back to duty under six good hours.

That pig s going to die, Peggy,' said Luke,
when he saw her again. ' Did you ask your
grandfather whether he'd make a bid for him V

Yes, and he said he wouldn't have it at any
price.'

He's very ill,' he said. ' Do you know what
I'm going to do V

No,' said Peggy, a little alarmed, for Luke
was not particularly wise when the impulse
seized him.

i've got some dynamite charges from the
quay, and I'm going to blow him a sty out of
the rock — a good, big hole, where he can get in
out of the snow and the wind, poor beggar.'

^ Oh, you must not do that.'

'Why not? It's my rock. It's part of the
freehold,' he said, with a laugh not quite so
hearty as usual.

Yes, it's your rock, but you'll blow the freehold
down, Luke.'

Ah I I had forgotten that.'

The house was condemned months and
months ago, only grandfather kept it to himself.
And the surveyor says it'll have to be rebuilt,
or he won't answer for the consequences.
That's why grandfather wanted to sell it in a
hurry.'

Yes ; 1 know. I've had notice instead of your
grandfather,' said Luke, ruefully. ' Your statement's
quite correct, lass.'

And what's to be done V

I don't quite see. I shall have to chuck up
the freehold, I expect.'

But the next day the blind pig was so very
ill, and the mist came swooping in such bitter
gusts down the valley, that Luke Shands resolved
to carry out his original intention.

It will bring the house down, too, I daresay
and I don't care if it does,' he added, * the
darned old lucifer-box that it is. Yes, I'll chance
it

So Luke Shands, in a desperate kind of mood,

full of anger against bis house, and of sympathy
for his pig, laid his plans and his dynamite, and
went to work in a business kind of way, lia^ang
done good service in the quarries at times, off
and on, for a change. Hence he lighted his fuse,
and retired a little way down the valley, leading
his quadruped at the end of a string, and there
waited the result with grave composure. But
Luke's luck kept pace with him. The report
came, and the crash of cliff wall followed, and
the pig died of flight there and then — turned
over on his side and gave up the ghost forthwith.


Tbafs a settler,' said Luke ; then he marched
back, and found his house standing, with only
the roof blown a trifle askew, and looking as if
it had got a cocked hat on. And the hole he
had blown into the cliff was black and cavernous,
and seemingly without end — and, what was
the most remarkable part of the whole occurrence,
it had all gone inwards, as though the
charge had shattered a thin crust of limestone,
and driven a way into the heart of the
bills.

Bless and save us, this is a queer start,' said
Luke Shands.

It was a queerer start than Luke imagined,
than Felspar had imagined, than scientific folk
had imagined, until they came down presently
in twos and threes, and accounted for it clearly
and graphically, and said it was just what might
have been expected. Luke had not expected
anything, and it was not till he had lighted a
candle and passed into the hole that he discovered
he had blown a passage into a cavern, long
and tortuous and seemingly winding its way
now up and now down to an extent that, on the
spur of the moment, he thought he would pursue
no further.

Why, here's a lady's chapel all to myself in
my back garden,' he said, with one of his hearty
roars, and then he was startled by the rays of
his candle-light falling on what looked like a
lace curtain with tints and traceries from roof to
floor.

That's very queer,' said Luke.

But the first scientist who came to see this —

and he was handy on the spot, and had been
foraging about Felspar with a hammer for the
last week — said :

That's one of the grandest stalactites I have
ever seen in my life.'

ind the cavern was full of stalactites and
stalagmites of all shapes, sizes, and colours, when
one came to explore it carefully.

You'll exhibit this,' said one of the wise men.
Have the gas laid on, and charge so much a
head.'

Can't afford it,' said Luke.

Oh, but you'll have plenty of people here
presently. I shall write aa account in the
Universal Geological Chronicle." Is this your
own property?'

Yes, sir.'

You're a lucky fellow. Do you know the
man who owns the cavern in the Crockaway
Hills?'

I've heard of him.'

He's worth twenty thousand pounds.'

Luke sat down on his garden palings and felt
as if he should faint away on the spot.

You don't say so !' he said.

But I do.'

You'll excuse me, sir, but I must run and tell

And away Luke started down the valley at a
pace that might be set down as headlong, and
Professor Treguffin seized the opportunity to
chop off one small stalagmite that he was sure
would not be missed, and which would add
considerably to the character and tone of his
own private collection.

There is not much more to be told. Shands'
cavern was soon famous in the Felspar district,
had its place in guide-books, became a feature of
interest in the locality, and was lighted up by
gas presently, having a little gasometer all to
itself, on the site where the blind pig died.
And all at Luke Shands' expense, when Luke
began to get a rich man, and that with some
degree of rapidity. The last Easter Monday
before Matthew Brantwell died, three thousand
excursionists came to Felspar valley from the
new station a mile and a half away, and most of
them paid a shilling apiece admittance without

a murmur. After that Matthew Brant well
died of jaundice, and Alas buried with his forefathers.


Luke and his wife — need I say, Luke's wife
^as Peggy Brant well, whose grandfather had
cut her off with a shilling? — and the children
are living in a brand-new stone house at the
head of the valley where the Felspar hotel is
now.

It was in this strange fashion — and true
fashion — that Luke Shands' luck turned, and in
her heart of hearts Peggy still puts it down
to her little prayers in My Lady's Chapel that
autumn evening when the spell seemed broken
by her lover's untimely interference. But
Luke will not have this ; and Mrs. Twitters —
who is still living, we rejoice to say — thinks that
a man who could have had such luck as he
had, and not be grateful to it, and own how it
came round to him, is little better than a born
heathen, and does not deserve to prosper.

JACOB And POLLY.

Jacob Cattleyy was a messenger to Messrs.
Parkinson, Goldchest, and Co., the rich bankers
in Lombard Street. At least he always considered
himself attached to the establishment as a
messenger, though he had never * signed articles '
with the principals, and was just tolerated outside
on the pavement, at an acute angle of the
building and three feet from the street-doors,
where customers and clerks were not likely
to tumble over him. He had been hanging
outside this big bank for many years now, and it
had become a custom of late days to send him
on little errands which were not within the pro-vol.
n. D

vince of a regular clerk's duty, and which the
clerks of Parkinson, Goldchest, and Co. would
have scorned to perform at any price whatever.
If anybody required a cab, Jacob was sent for
one ; if a country gentleman with a big balance
on the books wanted to be shown the way to
the Bank of England, or Billingsgate, or the
Tower, Jacob was told off as guide ; if something
was wanted surreptitiously by the clerks,
n the shape of a newspaper or a ham sandwich,
Jacob was sent for it, and there had been times
when it was even considered safe to trust him
with a telegram.

Jacob received no salary, but was supported
by voluntary contributions, like a hospital, and
what those contributions amounted to in a year
there had been much speculation concerning, at
the bank, amongst the clerks. It was set down
by young and imaginative minds, as a ' pretty
penny, take it altogether 1' But taking Jacob
Cattleyy altogether was, to the ordinary observer,
to set him down, as a poor, half-starved, ill-clad,
miserable old man, struggling hard to live, and
always on the brink of failing at it. A shabbier

old gentleman was not to be found between the
Bank and Houndsditch ; but he was never in
rags, and he always boasted a clean face under
his rusty-brown top hat, which he poised at the
extreme back of his grey head. He did not
appear to flourish on his contributions, but grew
thinner and more pinched with every week of
his outdoor service there. ' You can see him
shrivelling away,' one young man had seriously
asserted. * He's a regular miser, I'll be bound.'
And with his hollow cheeks, and peaked nose,
and prominent chin ground fine to match that
poor pinched nose of his, he might have been
taken for a miser, or a pauper, or indeed anything
deplorable.

Still he had what the clerks called his ' tips,'
find Mr. Goldchest, every Saturday morning,
when he left the bank, and before he stepped
into his carriage, the door of which Mr. Cattleyy
always opened for him, gave him something, it
was noticed, but whether a sovereign or a
threepenny-piece was a matter of uncertainty,
the claw-like hand of Jacob closing so quickly
on the gift. The junior clerks thought it would

d2

be a * threepenny,' Mr. Goldchest not being a
liberal paymaster, in their humble opinion, forcibly
expressed each quarter-day, but Jacob,
probably of a reticent disposition, never let
them know, and, at all events, he did not wax
fat on his emoluments ; and in the rainy and
frosty seasons caught many a cold and cough,
and wore, ranter and summer, the same suit of
grey threadbare clothes, to which, in very inclement
weather, a red cotton neckerchief,,
relieved by white lozenges and tied in a strange
knot, was added, by way of protection, to a
giraffe-like throat.

Jacob was considered a poor hanger-on ; but
Jacob had his hangers-on too, and people whom
in his turn he took upon himself to patronise.
There are always depths below depths in this
eccentric world of ours, and always some poor
brother and sister to whom a hand can be held
out, or a little kindness rendered, and Jacob
Cattleyy had his dependent in the background,
and one who waited and watched for him as
regularly after banking hours on Saturdays ashe
waited and watched for Mr. Goldchest about

noon ; and this dependent on Mr. Cattleyy was
a dark-haired, dark-eyed purveyor of penny
*• button-holes ' and twopenny bouquets, a poor
flower-girl who regarded Mr. Cattleyy as a
regular customer on Saturdays, one who was
always good for a penny, sometimes even twopence,
when he had been extra fortunate in the
City.

Jacob, it may be said, never purchased his
flowers in Lombard Street ; no one in that busy
centre had seen Jacob Cattleyy spend a penny-piece
upon anything, but once away from the
City proper, and hurrying on towards Black-friars
Bridge — on the Surrey side of which he
lived, and which he crossed regularly twice a
day to and from his 'place of business,' — anyone
who had taken the trouble to watch him —
which no one ever had — would have seen Jacob
somewhere in the neighbourhood of Lydgate
Hill bargaining with Polly Baxter for a nosegay
every Saturday afternoon.

Jacob Cattleyy would even condescend to
patronise Polly Baxter, and to occasionally pass
-a remark upon the weather, or the extent of her

stock-in-trade ; but all this was done in an austere,
stand-offish way, which did not encourage
conversation in return, and which was a washed-out
copy of the great Goldchest manner, when
the big banker skated across the pavement to
his carriage. Polly Baxter did not know thisbe
and thought it was very kind of the old gentleman
in the queer-looking comforter to say a
word or two to her now and then — words
which, with all their coldness, had a little ring
in them of interest or sympathy, or something
not easy to comprehend, and which the flower-girl
did not attempt in any way to account for.
Sometimes she wondered why he purchased
flowers, or what he did with them after he got
home ; he was so particular about the bunch he
purchased, and had so strong a fancy for the
brightest colours.

Suddenly Jacob Cattleyy was missed from
Lombard Street, and from the neighbourhood
of Lydgate Hill; and Polly Baxter's basket
blushed with flowers in vain for him. Everyday
Polly Baxter had been accustomed to see
him between four and five trotting homewards

with his sharp face set due south ; every day he
said * Good morning,' in a grave, fatherly way,
and ^vith a solemn bend of his long neck ; and
on Saturdays, as we have intimated, he always
stopped to bargain with her for her gayest
pennyworth. And now Jacob was missing, and
no one knew where Jacob lived, so that the
mystery of his disappearance might have been
solved by a friendly call.

He's dead, for sixpence, poor old cove,' said
one of the junior clerks, a pert and slangy and
over-diseased youth, whom Jacob had in his
heart dished, despite the offering of a penny
now and then. ' He's off, depend upon it. I'm
sorry I was so deuced hard on him last week.'

Polly Baxter wondered more about him than
the rest of the community aware of his existence.
She did not know why she should 'bother about
the old man,' but she did. He was a something
removed from her life, a regular customer gone,
and that was to be regretted when regular
customers were scarce. When she had bought
her flowers at Covent Garden Market in the
early morning, and had taken them to her little

attic where she made up her penny bunches for
the day, she caught herself thinking of the funny
little bloke, and of his grave, old-fashioned
ways. She had had a father like him once in
some respects, and he had died in the workhouse,
praying that she might ' keep good,' which she
had. Polly was a poor ignorant girl enough,
who had never been taught to read and write,
and her father had been ' a bad lot,' as it was
termed, and had not cared to see her taught, or
cared much about anything save himself, until
he had become a martyr to rheumatism, and lost
his situation in the Market, and had to go finally
into the house, leaving his daughter with all the
world to herself, and nobody in it to look after
her, except a policeman or two, who hauled her
up at times before aldermanic Solon for ' obstructing
the thoroughfare,' and got her fined
and * cautioned.' Then the father was sorry,
and woke up to some little thought of his girl,
when he could do little else but think.

Nevertheless, Polly Baxter earned her own
living honestly, and made the best of her
position by thrift and industry, coming very

close to starvation once or twice in the hard
times which will turn up to the hard-workers.
Still she fought on, and had begun to teach
herself to read and write of late days, and to
find her way on Sundays to a little chapel down
a back street, and listen with much surprise to
what they told her there, and to wonder why it
had been kept from her all these years, and why
no one in the highways and byways of her life
had said a word about it.

Possibly thinking of this had made her think
of other folk as the Hght filtered a little through
the darkness of Polly Baxter's fife, but she did
think a great deal of the poor old-fashioned little
man who seemed to have vanished like a ghost,
and it became a matter of speculation why he
had ever bought flowers of her at all, being a
man Who probably had not much to spend on
the minor luxuries of life. And so regular a
customer, too, thought Polly, with a sigh again.

Suddenly however, the regular customer,
turned up again one Saturday, six weeks or two
months after everybody thought he was dead.
It was like a ghost rising up in Lombard Street,

aud even Mr. Goldchest, taken unawares by this
re-appearance at his carriage-door, gasped out,
Bless my soul !' and slipped one foot off the
kerbstone into the gutter in his first surprise.

He was even a little curious for so great a
man, and said,

Have you been ill, Jacob V

He did not knows his other name. * Old
Jacob ' was Mr. Cattleyy's cognomen in Lombard
Street ; ' Cranky Jacob ' sometimes.

No, sir.'

^ Then '

Jacob's rugged face twitched very much ashe
touched his hat deferentially, and said,

I've had a loss, Mr. Goldchest.'

Oh, indeed.'

Mr. Goldchest did not ask what or whom he
had lost ; he glanced at the big rusty hatband
wrapped round the rusty hat of his humble
dependent ; there was a fugitive fear even that
there might be something * catching ' from Mr.
Cattleyy's close proximity, and he stepped with
alacrity into his carriage, and drew up his
window sharply. He did not reward Jacob on

that occasion; he gave no thought to the appears
Which might have accumulated during Jacob's
absence from his duties, and the old man walked
home very thoughtfully, and with a downcast
expression of countenance. On his way home
he encountered Polly Baxter, who also was disposed
to take him for a ghost, and nearly
dropped her basket into the London mud at the
first sight of him.

'Why, lor', sir, who'd have thought of it?'
she exclaimed.

Thought of what V he asked, a little curiously.


Of your being alive and moving about like
this again. I'm so glad.'

Glad, are you ? What are you glad for?' he
inquired, sharply.

Glad to see an old customer,' was the truthful
reply.

Ah ! just so,' said Jacob.

*And not that exactly, mind you,' added
Polly, ' but because you are here, you know.
That's it. Where have you been, sir? Laid
up?'

This was Mr. Goldchest's inquiry also, but not
conveyed with so much interest. And his
answer was the same as before.

I've had a loss.' "v

Not — not money V

i've lost my daughter; all I had in the
world to me ; all I cared for, child. Good day,'
he said, with an excitement for which Polly was
wholly unprepared.

Yes ; but here, Jiold hard, old un,' she cried,
inelegantly ; ' ain't you a-going to have any
flowers to '

The ' old un ' hurried away from her, darted
across the road under horses' heads and omnibus
wheels with almost the alacrity of youth,
and it was not until he was upon Blackfriars
Bridge that he had recovered his composure,
and quite finished with a ragged pocket-handkerchief,
which was evidently a segment of his
winter wrapper, being of the same striking pattern
and colour. When he had crossed the
bridge and Southwark Street, and was turning
into one of the little crowded thoroughfares on
the left of the Blackfriars Road, leading to the

salubrious quarters of Gravel Lane and parts
adjacent, he was astonished and discomfited
again to find Polly Baxter at his elbow, exceedingly
red in the face, and short of breath.

Well, you jest can stump out, guv'nor, and
no flies,' she said.

What do you want with me ?' he asked,
testily now ; ' what — what is it ? How dare
you r

I only want to say I'm sorry like,' she blurted
forth. * I didn't think, all at once, about the
flowers, and that you wanted them for her, of
course, who's gone now, and who was fond of
flowers. I twig, I see ; you won't mind what I
said — will you now V

Jacob Cattleyy stared at her, but he croaked
forth, very hoarsely,

*No.'

I'll never ax you again — I'll never look your
Avay ag-in ; but take this, please, for this once,,
won't you V

And Polly held out his usual-sized bunch of
flowers, at which the old man shrank back, as
though it had been a pistol levelled at him.

It isn't for the money,' said Polly, excited
now herself ; *I don't want any money — ketch
'old, please do. Jest to make believe you're
taking them to her the same as ever, sir.'

The old man stretched out a trembling hand
towards the flowers at this suggestion, and Polly
thrust them into his grasp, and fairly ran away
across the bridge again, leaving him looking
after her open-mouthed, and with some salt
tears brimming over his blinking eyelids and
making their way down the deep furrows in his
cheeks.

On the Monday, Jacob passed her as usual on
his homeward route, and with his old, patronizing
bow, and with a steadier stare at her too, as
if no longer afraid to face her. But Polly looked
the other way, and would not see him — fell
into the habit of hiding from him even — and on
the following Saturday would also have eluded
him, had he not come up the reverse way of
the street, and taken her unawares by a flank
movement.

Let me have a good bunch to-day — a twopenny
bunch,' he said, in quite a business-like
manner.

Polly Baxter was surprised, but she gave him
the flowers he required, and he dropped the
money into her basket.

'But you don't want "em now — do you?' she
murmured.

Yes, of course I do. That was a good
thought of yours, child, last week. And I took
the flowers to her J

Oh !' ejaculated Polly.

And shall do so every week, making believe,
as you say, that's she waiting for them. It's
not a bad thought at all,' he muttered ; ' she
was so very fond of flowers.'

How old was your gal V asked Polly.

About your age, I should say.'
And ailing allers, was she V

For the last three or four years, yes. Good
day ;' and then Jacob hurried away, and this
time she did not attempt to follow him.

It was from this time that Jacob contrived to
be as regular a customer to Polly Baxter as he
had ever been, and had anyone had the curiosity
to follow the movements of the old man, he or
she would have seen him every Sunday, in fairweather

or foul, plodding on to Tooting cemetery,
to lay his little offering on the grave of the
daughter who had been always fond of flowers.
When the wintertime came on, and flowers grew
very scarce and dear, and Polly was compelled
to raise her prices, the old man looked very pale
and pinched with cold, and did not move along
with his customary alacrity — on the contrary,
limped painfully at times with the rheumatism
which had seized him.

One very cold Saturday she said to him,
suddenly :

You ain't well V

Well, not quite as well as I might be,
perhaps,' he answered, cautiously.

'I don't mind your paying for these some
other time, you know,' she added, hurriedly,
'if '

If what V he asked, as she came to a full
stop.

*If you're hard up. It won't make much
difference to me, and she might miss 'em now.'

Thanked,' he said, gently ; and he looked
very hard at her from under his tangled, wiry

eyebrows ; * that's a kind thought, child. ^Vhat
did yoTi say your name was V

I didn't say,' she answered, surprised in her
turn ; * but it's Polly Baxter.'

Living where, now V

St. James's Row,' she answered, 'at the back
there. But why V

Good day.'

That was the last time Polly Baxter met
Jacob Cattleyy in the London streets, for Jacob
disappeared again, and Lombard Street and the
flower-girl on Lydgate Hill missed him altogether.


He must be dead this time, poor old cove !'
thought Polly.

But Polly was again deceived. One morning,
a short, red-faced woman, with a market-basket
on her arm, and a key in her hand, looked hard
at her, and stopped.

Is your name Baxter V

Yes.'

'Polly Baxter?'
« Yes, that's it.'

You're wanted in George Street, Gravel
VOL. II. E

Lane, No. 29. My lodger, the old man who
iTsed to buy flowers of you, wants to see you
precious bad.'

He ain't dead, then,' cried Polly ; ' well, I
am glad.'

Don't see what you're got to be glad about
said the old woman, sharply ; ' but, no, he ain't
dead yet. He's hooking it off, though, sharp
enuf.'

Oh !— is he ? Oh ! I hope he ain't !'

Can you find your way?'

Yes. Trust me for that.'

Polly Baxter trudged away at once to George
Street, and to No. 29, where, on the top-floor,
she found poor Jacob Cattleyy, very much down
in the world, and with very little life left in him.
The rheumatics had got an iron grip of him at
last, and fever had followed, and this was very
nearly the last of him, as the red-faced woman
had prophesied.

As Polly entered the room, he smiled at her
as at an old friend.

Polly,' he said, speaking with great difficulty,
I wish to put you in mind of an old offer to me.'

MVhat'sthat, sir?'

I want you to open a credit account with me.'

*A what?' cried Polly.

It's a term we have in Lombard Street,' he
explained, quite airily, 'to trust me, I mean, fora
little while for a few flowers.'

To be sure I will !' cried Polly. ' Right you
are.'

I'll pay you soon ; and I want you to do more
than that, much more.'

Polly waited and wondered till he took time
to recover his breath ; then he added,

1 want you on Sunday afternoon to take them
to her, and lay them on her grave for me. Do
you mind very much?'

Not at all,' said Polly. ' I'll go dii-ely after
chapel, if you'll tell me how to find it.'
Do i/ou go to chapel V
Yes, reg lar.'
Good girl. Keep that up.'

No fear, sir.'

And come and tell me regularly what they
tell i/oit there ; will you, child ? I should like to
know.'

E 2

To be sure I will, sir.'

When you come back from her'

Then he gave his directions which Polly Baxter
carried out faithfully, until the end came,
and Jacob Cattleyy was bmied with his daughter.

After his death, Polly Baxter went regularly
to the cemetery just the same, and laid her little
bunch of flowers on the grave of him who had
said kind words to her in life. That was the
end of him, and of the story, she thought, until
one day, a week or two afterwards, a prim little
gentleman in black called upon her, and asked her
many questions and made perfectly sure that she
was the genuine and only Polly Baxter, flower
vendor, before he surprised her with his news.

Jacob Cattleyy had been a bit of a miser, after
all, and had scraped together, by his faithful and
humble services in Lombard Street, the sum of
one hundred and fifty pounds. He had died
without a relation in the world to care for him,
and he had left his money to Polly Baxter, of
49, St. James's Row, City, E.C., in remembrance
of her kindness, and * in settlement of his credit
account with her.'

Polly Baxter is married now, and she and her
husband have a flourishing little greengrocer's
shop and are doing very well. There are fresh
flowers on the old man's grave at Tooting, and
one grateful heart keeps his memory green.

SSn.^.t."-

DICK WATSON'S DAUGHTER.

Yes, sir, Portland born and bred, and proud of
it. We Hollanders are a bit proud of it, a good
many of us, this being always home to us, as it
has been to our fathers and mothers before us,
don't you see ? Can't say exactly why this
should be always home — it's not easy to explain,
and I am not a good hand at explanation. Has
anybody ever explained why cats love houses
and back yards and not the people in them?
why they will starve on the tiles, or in an empty
house rather than go with the master who has
fed them all their lives? Something to do with
the overgrowth of the organ of locality a wiseacre

told me once, and perhaps he was right.
But old dad said he was a fool, and dad was
just as Hkely to be right as the other man. I
don't always know a fool from a wise maa
myself; it takes a lot of time to find out that
even in London, where you are all so mighty
sharp.

I stick to Portland. Do you see Weymouth
and Welcome over yonder in the bay ? I've
never been across, and shall never care to.
AVhat's the use? I've everything I want —
health and strength ; a good house, and a goodwife
; plenty of work, and plenty of smiles to
meet a man after the work's done. AYhat more
should I find over yonder ? — and how much less ?
My father lived and died here, so shall I. I
can't abide with people always wanting change
that's a bad complaint, sir, you take my word
for it, and gets people into all sorts of trouble —
into prison too, poor hammocks. I'd lay a
crown-piece there's a lot of them up at our big
prison there, who could say to me, * That's true
enough, David Costerbadie, if you never speak
another sensible word in the whole comes of

your blessed life ; that's uncommon true.' Very
well then, what's there to laugh about 1 I daresay
your London is a fairer, squarer place than
this, but it would not suit me any better for that.
Not it.

Well, perhaps a few years ago I was not
quite as satisfied as I am now, and was bothered
just a Httle with an idea of sliding off, of
turning out a soldier, or a policeman, or a diver
which my uncle was, and got drowned byway
of a judgment on him, the dad has always
said, for sneaking away and getting underwater.
But, though it did cross my mind I had
better make one less, it never came to the big
march to go, and matters worked round by
degrees, as they will, sir, if you only wait and
work hard and don't snivel. Bless you, yes !
It won't come round the way you thought —
dashed if it ever does that !but round it comes,
just Hke the hand of a clock, and as I'll prove
to you clear enough if you don't mind listening
for a while. Mine's a queer story in its way.
When those young ones about us grow up, I'm
a-going to tell it them, even with then mother

sitting by to hear it. I don't know there's much
of a moral in it, but Bets says there is ; and
Betsy has always her wits about her, if I haven't,
though she's not Portland born and bred, as we
Costerbadies are. She's a foreigner, she is —
ain't you, Betsy lass ? — and very much ashamed
of it too, though it wasn't her fault, poor thing,
as some people might think. She comes from
your town — from a part of it called Whitechapel
which sounds like a place clean and pious
enough for anybody, and Betsy says perhaps it
may be in the parts of it she doesn't recollect.

It was her coming to Portland which made
all the fuss about us, and put us all to sixes and
sevens, as the saying is, although we were at
sixes and sevens before she turned up, for that
matter, owing to hard luck. There had been
bad times at the quarries — the private quarries
were all wrong somehow — changing hands and
changing men, and the new stone they fetched
out of the land did not come up well, or did not
last long, or had something or other the matter
with it which kept us quarrymen chopping
and changing, or sitting still in the house-place

out of work, and wondering when the work
would come again. We grumbled a bit, too,
at the prison lot taking the labour from our
hands, and letting us lie idle. But people lull
grumble, and Government wants its quarries
worked at a cheap rate ; and at all events here
the prison is, for good or bad, and no getting
rid of it again. We're a bit grown to it, and,
with work enough for both of us, we don't
grumble as we used.

Betsy Watson crossed over to Portland in the
bad times then, when work was very slack, a
score or more of years ago I may say, before
the railway came to us, and the big breakwater
was finished. I mind her standing in the
street with a big bundle in her arms — a crimson
bundle with white spots — and looking round as
if she'd lost her way, and a poor, thin, pale,
gawky kind of wench she was that day. Just
to think of that, sir, looking at her now, that
wide!

She came over by the steamer, and, when the
people had all got on shore and gone away, she
walked slowly along the road towards Chesil —

that's the lot of old houses by the Chesil bank,
which we see from this window down on the
shore there. We all lived at Chesil at that
time, a family of us Costerbadies, dad and
mother, and sister Leah, and young Jonathan,
who was a cripple and died before his time, and
your humble servant. 1 had been out of work
all the winter, and was hanging about the road
as if I had stolen something — and ready, if anybody
had asked me, to carry anything up town
or top of the island for a stray sixpence or less.
And there was nobody I could be of use to
but Betsy Watson, who strolled on with her
black straw bonnet blown to the back of her
head, and who was wondering where she was,
or which was the right way to go, or what had
become of those who should have been at the
landing-stage to meet her and help her with her
bundle, and say, ' How d'ye do V and had not
come to time, or never meant. It was something
of this, I fancied, before I caught her eye and
slouched away a step or two, and then stopped
again with my mouth all open like a trap, Betsy
told me afterwards, and looking a rare silly.

It was she who spoke first — women being
naturally more forward in their ways than men,
or being more inclined to settle things ofi"-hand,
and not to go beating about the bush so much
as we shy fellows. And I was shy enough of
strangers, of course, though this bit of a gawky
girl was ten years younger, and like a child tome.
She was exactly seventeen, and I was
seven-and-twenty. She was five feet seven,
which is a strapping height for a gul, even if
she has overgrown herself a bit, and I was six
feet three ; so there you have us Hke a picture,
and a rum picture we must have been too.

Do you know, sir, where I could find a cheap
lodging in these parts T she asked, bang oS", of
me.

Oh I there's plenty of lodgings,' I answered,
pointing to no end of bills in all the windows of
all the little and big houses in sight. It was
Easter time, when company was scarce enough,
and the weather was awful cold that year. It
was actually snowing while she spoke to me,
and the snow was settling on her hair like flour
on a bright brown chestnut.

Ye — es, but I want a very cheap lodging,
1 don't mind how poor, being poor myself,' she
added, frank and straight.

*0h! I see.'

And I shall not give anybody any trouble
while I stay here ; that is, I hope I shan't.'

This was a very young woman to come out
holiday-making by herself, and, indeed, for all
her height, I took her to be a year younger
than she was, she was that thin, and had so
innocent a face. A sad face, too, and sorrowful
people do not look younger than they are, as a
rule ; but she did somehow.

The sort of lodger people like, lass,' I replied,
with a laugh, 'and you'd suit a good many
about here.'

I did not speak to her as to a lady born, but
as to one of my own class, though I was as red
all the time as beetroot. And I was wonderfully
taken by her, as by a child that had lost its way
and wanted help to find it, and might not get
into careful hands, being ignorant of life. She
was very poor, although neat as a new pin, and
well shod. The wind did not quite seem to suit

with her thin black dress and wisp of a shawl,
though, but to cut through them both, as she
stood there trying not to shiver. I thought of
all the neighbours in Chesil, and along the hillside,
and, not being quick to come to conclusions,
I did nothing else but think and keep my
mouth open. When an idea came to me, I gave
her the benefit of it, but it was not very often,
as we walked slowly along the road together.
I should have been glad to carry her bundle,
but did not like to ask,

They let lodgings down there,' I said, pointing
to Chesil, * but it would be awful cold for
you, and sometimes the sea swamps you when
the wind keeps in this quarter long. There's
old Bruce's, there's Churchfunnel, there's Mother
Break's, there's '

David, who's this wench V said a shrill voice
my sister Leah's voice — and sure enough
there was sister Leah at my elbow, as curious
as any woman, and wondering who I had got
to talk to and walk with all of a sudden at that
time of day.

Betsy Watson looked at Leah, and crept aside

VOL. II. F

like a girl a bit frightened at the sight of her.
And Leah was not a well-favoured lass, I must
say, not for thirty-five, when good looks are not
always in their bloom even with good temper
to back them, which Leah never had. Leah
had grown very yellow of late and full of hard
lines, and had lost two front teeth only last
week — one top, one bottom — and that would
make any woman cross, though there was no
one to see her but dad, and me, and mother,
and Jonathan. Leah had been out marketing,
and had come upon us with her basket on her
arm, and a something green sticking out of the
basket. She had no bonnet on, and the wind
was blowing her hair — almost grey now — a
good many ways at once, and her face was
pinched and not so clean as I had seen it now
and then on Sundays. She looked a bit spiteful
at us both, too, goodness knows for why.

< This young girl,' I said to Leah, * was asking
me where she could get a lodging hereabouts,
and I was saying '

Oh I you're a pretty one to talk about lodgings,'
Leah answered, uncommon sharp ; * what

kind of lodging do you want ?' she asked, vnih
a 'long steady stare at Betsy, and then at the
bundle in her arms.

Betsy told her what she had told me, and
more. She wanted a very cheap lodging ; she
was poor ; it had been said she must have
change of air, and she had saved up all the
winter to get that change, and here she was. It
was all plain speaking, and no beating about the
bush.

For how long V asked Leah.

A fortnight — perhaps three weeks, if my
money will last out, and I can get to like this
place,' she answered, with a little shudder at it
already.

You came from — where V

London.'

You've come a long way, if you're short of
money,' said Leah, with a kind of snort.

They said this part of England would do mea
deal of good, and besides '

She did not say what besides, but stopped all
of a sudden, and my sister, more interested in
Betsy's means of living and paying her way

f2

than iu her reason for giving Portland a lookup,
said, bluntly,

What money have you got V

'That's not for you to ask, Leah, or for me
I broke in here ; for I saw the poor, weak thing
flinch again at the question coming from such a
stranger; 'that's no one's business but hers.'

'Yes, it's my business,' said Leah, 'for this
child — and she's but a child, tall as she is — may
not be able to pay those who'd feel the ill-luck
of being cheated of a penny."

Oh ! I don't want to cheat anybody,' said
Betsy Watson, quick and warm at this. ' When
the money is getting low, I shall be ready to
go home.'

'I should think Mother Break's would suit
her, because '

Because you know nothing about it, David,'
said Leah, ' or about anything save quarry
work, which you can't get. If this child can
pay her way — fair and square, as she will — she
might spend her holiday in a worse fashion than
along with us, I take it.'

Oh ! no cried Betsy, shrinking away for the

third time, 'I — I don't want anything like that
How do you know what it's like, or what
we're like V said Leah, ready to argue the point
at once, and with no end of force too —-just like
Leah, that was. ' We're neat and clean ; there's
a bed-room all to yourself, with a fine big sea-view,
too. We'll board and lodge you cheaper
than anyone in Chesil, and we haven't had a
lodger for nine months, and this hulking brother
of mine is always out of work, and you will bea
help to us. One house is as good as another,
if it's an honest house, ain't it?'

Ye — es,' said Betsy, frightened from all argument
by this ; * oh, yes ! quite true.'

Then what do you want to go anywhere
else for ? Come and see the house — there it is :
it won't kill you to look at it. That's my father
sitting in the doorway — there's my mother looking
over his shoulder at us — there's Jonathan at
the window — your window. You come and seethe
place before you say, " I don't want anything
like that ;" you mayn't know what you do
want ;' and Leah seemed to drag Betsy Watson
down the road to the stone houses in the shadow

of the Chesil bank, where the waves were dashing
and roaring finely that afternoon, and with
a noise that steered her first go-off.

I walked a Httle distance behind ; the way
my sister talked had swept away a little objection
of my own which I should have liked to
make, but I was clean silenced by her style. I
had never known Leah go on quite like that
before, never seen her so excited and so anxious.
Generally Leah was a woman of few words,
which were plain and hard enough when they
did come out, which was not very often. ' A
sulky toad,' I have heard father call her more
than once, and * A sour lot, that Leah Coster-bade,'
had been said of her by the Chesil neighbours
for no end of time. Leah had never
seemed particularly anxious about anything till
that day — but then it was hard to guess whether
she was anxious or not. So her manner opened
my eyes as much as it did young Betsy Watson's,
just for the reason I was no more used toit
than she was.

When we got home, Leah said to me, ' You
wait here, while I show the young lady over

the place ;' and ' the young lady ' looked at me
for a moment as if afraid to trust herself with my
rapacious sister ; then she gave way and passed
into our house as if she was Leah's prisoner,
and there was not much chance of running away
from her.

Presently she was talking to father and mother
in the parlour, and Leah slipped out and caught
me by the arm.

She'll stop if you don't blunder out something,
and turn her against us,' she whispered,
hoarsely.

Yes — but don't you see '

You fool!' she cried, 'don't you see ever?
Ain't we starving !'

She backed into the cottage again, leaving
me all of a big heap against the stone wall.

It was as bad as that then, and it was harder
lines with the Costerbadies than I had guessed.
Well, the old people, and Leah, and Jonathan
had fought their battles well without my guessing
much about it, and without my wondering
how long the money would hold out. No one
had worried me, fretful as they all were in their

way, for I took things about as quietly as most
folk, even when there laws anything to put me
out, which was seldom, though Leah and dad
had a bad way — T own it — of aggravating
people, and each other. Not so much in bad
times, for then we held together a bit more, and
helped each other all we could. Presently my
brother Jonathan — poor cripple and hunchback
he was, and yet close on twenty years of age —
came limping into the street towards me.

Davie, she's going to stop,' he said; 'she
thinks the place will suit her.'

*AVell, I hope she'll like it,' I said, *and I hope
you'll all be kind to her, for she's a poor body
enough.'

Yes, ain't she V piped Jonathan ; « I wonder
what she came for?'

Change of air.'

Did she tell you so V
*Yes.'

I Eke her face,' said my brother, after thinking
it over a little, ' but it wouldn't be lucky if
she died here, would it V

Lor' bless the fellow — no.'

It would be our luck though — wouldn't it V
*You shut up, and keep that nonsense to

yourself, Johnnie — she ain't a-going to die,' I
said ; * what's made you think of such stuff as
thats

going to die, indeed ! Why, in twenty-four
hours from the time she set foot in Chesil she
was a different young creature altogether, and
as full of life as ever she could stick ! I don't
suppose change of air ever agreed with a young
person as it agreed with Betsy Watson ; there
was quite a colour on her cheeks next day, and
before the week was out she was as brown as
any berry.

That Whitechapel of your must have been
a very sickly place,' I said to her about the
third day of her stay with us, and when she was
getting redder and redder, nose and chin especially,
' for you to have got as pale as when I saw
you first.'

I can't say if it's sickly,' she answered, doubtfully,
* all I know is I am very sick of it.'

Were you born there V
Oh, yes !'

People don't get sick of where they're born
at least, we don't in Portland.'

^No/

But Whitechapel mayn't be quite as fresh a
place as this, take it altogether.'

1 don't think it is quite as fresh,' she answered,
laughing at me.

Then what makes you stop V

Oh ! you're as curious as your sister,' she said
pettishly, and went away from me and sat on
the Chesil bank, and chucked stones into the
water for hours afterwards. I felt she did not
want my company ; I walked away till tea was
ready, and thought of what she had said all the
mortal time.

As curious as my sister ! Well, Leah was
curious enough, I knew, but I had never been
called curious before, and never had been that I
knew of. ' You don't seem to me, David, to
bustle about quite enough or take enough
interest in things,' the dad had told me over andover
again ; * you're too big and lumpy like !'
And now here was a Httle chit of a woman telling
me I was curious, and running away from

me because I worried her with questions —
actually worried her !

Yes, it was singular, because somehow, sir, I
was curious about her. She looked to be so
very much alone in the world, so adrift like, and
yet a contented little soul, very quick with her
needle, and not too much of a lodger. She
liked to be of help in any way, knowing she was
poor, and fancying herself almost one of the
family after awhile. And she incas of help, and
Leah, who was never backward in making use
of people, put upon her, as I thought, before
the week was out, and got her to in on errands
and do all kinds of things for her, even to reshape
and fit her Sunday dress — which Leah
had had for years — in the new tip-top Whitechapel
fashion, too, which Betsy knew all about,
of course, being straight from London, where
all the fashions come from.

She was really one of the family by the end
of the week, quite at home, and glad Leah had
not frightened her from it when they had first
met in the open street. They all took to her,
Leah and all, and I do not remember Leah's

taking to anybody before, male or female. Not
that Betsy could see this, not understanding her
so well as we did, and thinking she was always
very cross and snappish, not guessing that if
Leah had not taken to her she would have ' let
her have it,' and screamed and yelled and
jawed at her, as she had done at other people
whom she could not abide, as she had always
done at home when put out by any of us. Leah
was handy at making fishing-nets, and Betsy
Watson, handy at anything, looked on one day,
helped her the next, and at such a rate, too,
that my sister almost smiled.

You're clever with your fingers,' she said.

We are in Whitechapel — some of them too
clever she added, with a sigh which was not
easy to account for.

No one can be too clever,' said father.

Oh ! yes, they can,' answered Betsy, briskly ;
too clever by half.'

How's that r I said.

Over-clever people get into trouble, David,'
she answered, thoughtfully now ; ' at least, I
have heard they do, Whitechapel way.'

xlnd that's an affliction, David boy, that'll
never happen to sou, depend upon it,' said mj
father, at which everybody laughed, Jonathan
the loudest, because it did not take a great deal
to amuse him, poor little chap I

How that first week slid away whilst Betsy
Watson was amongst us ! — though I was out of
work, and hated being out of work, ' big and
lumpy ' as the dad said I was. Though dad
did not mean all he said about me, bless your
heart ! Only his nasty way when anything disagreed
with him, or when his cough was bad,
and shook all his good qualities into his bad
ones. Gracious, but the old man could cough,
when put to it I ' Coughs his hardest on purpose,'
Leah always said, but that wasn't quite
correct ; though, when the whole house was
shaking, I used to think he did let loose a bit.

The old dad was fond of Betsy, too, in his
way ; she could not play chequers — draughts,
as you may call it — when she first came, but he
taught her, and she beat him hollow before the
week was up. And mother took to her, and
poor Jonathan went over head and ears in love

with her — which was silly, to say the least of ita
little helpless cove as he was.

By the end of the week we knew all about
Betsy Watson, and what she had not told us
herself at starting Leah kept asking her until
she did. Betsy worked in a wholesale house
Whitechapel way ; * gentlemen's ties ' and that
fal-lal rubbish turned out by the ton, and meaning
hard work, long hours, and deuce of a little
pay for it. The work had taken most of the
health and strength away from her before I
had first clapped eyes on her. She had no
mother — she had died when Betsy was a little
thing not higher than that sir. And the father?
Ah ! here comes the story, and out it came all at
once, when Leah was harassing one evening,
and I was smoking a short pipe at the open
door and listening to every word she said.

Father and mother and Jonathan had all
sone to bed, and the two women-folk were
fitting up late and working rather hard. I
remember it, just as if it was yesterday, and I
am likely to remember that night surely.

Yes, my father is alive,' she answered.

'Then why didn't you say so before?' said
Leah.

I didn't think it mattered to you, or anybody
else but me,' she said, ay, and with spirit too.

'And what's your father doing, Betsy?' Leah
asked.

He's in David's Ene.'

You don't mean that V

'Up at the prison yonder, working in the
quarries, that's where father is,' said Betsy,
speaking very quickly now, ' and it's as well you
should know it. I don't like keeping anything
back ; I never did.'

Bravo, Betsy !' I said, putting my head in at
the door to cheer her, and getting my nose
snapped off for my pains.

Isn't it time you went to bed instead of hanging
about there at this time of night ?' cried Leah.
What have you got to sit up for ? You haven't
any work to do.'

That's not my fault.'

Yes, it is,' said Leah ; ' you were never fond
of work.'

I should have knocked anybody over who had

told me that outside Portland, but I could not
do anything to Leah, uot even shake her. It
was not kind of her, but I said, quietly,

I can't make work.'

Here Betsy broke in before Leah could say
anything else unpleasant.

I should like David to know everything as
well as you,' she said, ' because I can trust him
always.'

Thanked for saying as much, my lass,' I said
back to her ; ' yes, you may trust me.'

My father has been in Portland close upon
seven years,' she began, ' and he has seven years
more to serve, less the time struck off for his
good conduct. A long sentence, isn't it V

What's he in for ?' asked Leah.

Housebreaking.'

'It wasn't the first or second time, for him to
get locked up so long,' was Leah's sharp
opinion.

Oh ! no — he has been at it all his life,' said
Betsy, quietly. ' I can't remember ever seeing
my father. When he was not in prison, he was
always keeping out of the way of those who

wanted to put him in it. Once or twice he
called to see me when I was very little — but I
don't recollect.'

Where were you V

« Oh ! he paid people to take care of me.'

Thieves, too, I'll be bound,' said Leah.

'No ; honest people who did not know how
father got his living. That's the odd thing
about my father, and it makes me love him, spite
of everything.'

« What's odd about him V

That he did all he could to keep me out ot
harm's way. He had an idea I should never
know anything about him, and that one day
he would turn up a rich man and take me abroad,
to live peaceably there With never a soul the
wiser. Very foolish!' she said, with a sigh,
and this is how it ended.'

Just as it ought to end,' was Leah's short
answer; 'I've no liking for a lot of thieves.
And if you have never seen him — how do you
know this V

He writes to me from prison when they allow
him.'

VOL. II. G

*Aid he's awfully sorry, of course. That's
because they read his letters before they let
them go,' said Leah.

I can't say he's sorry. He never says he is.'
And when his time is up — he'll thieve

again V

Yes — very likely.'

Well, he's a nice brute to love, I must say.'

He's my father.'

You'd better have been without one.'

Don't you love your father, Leah?' she
asked.

Can't say I do particular,' said Leah ; ' he's
much too aggravating to suit me. But, at all
events, he's honest ; I couldn't do anything but
hate and spit upon a thief !'

'Yes — Leah — I daresay you would,' replied
Betsy, ' and I don't ask you to love my father,
or to pity him ; I know he was very bad — I have
read about him in old newspapers, and there
was nothing much to be said for him. But still
he does not forget me — he writes to me — he is
sorry I've no mother to take care of me — and
he did the best he could in keeping me away

from him when I was young and he was bad.
You see that?'

I don't see anything good in him.'

I do, Betsy,' I said from the doorway ; ' at
least, it's my idea he might have made life much
worser for you — and much blacker for you.'

You get out I' cried my sister ; * your idea
indeed ! You never had one in that thick head
of yours that was worth an ounce of sugar.
Who cares for your ideas V

I haven't asked anybody to care.'

Then hold your noise,' said Leah ; ' do you
think I'm sitting up to listen to your gabble V

Ah, never mind her, David,' cried Betsy at
this moment ; ' your sister is kinder than she
cares to let us see, and she doesn't mean all she
says.'

'Much you are likely to know about me,'
answered Leah sharply at this. 'I do mean
what I say — I should be a poor creative if I
didn't. And you, Betsy Watson, might have
told us this before — knowing we are honest
people — and said what you had come for 

^

right. We shouldn't 'a' thought the worse of
you for telling us the truth

Here I Looked here !' I began, when
Betsy stopped me by holding up her hand and
asking if she had not told the truth, — told more
than there was any occasion for, considering
what she was and where she was.

You said you came for your health,' said
Leah.

That's true enough, for I was very ill.'

And you came for something else besides
that. You can't look me in the face, and say
you didn't,' went on my sister.

I am going to tell you what that something
else is.'

I can guess. To see your father?'

Yes. I have an order from the Directors to
see him the next visiting day. That's next
Wednesday,' she answered.

As if I didn't know what you were at Portland
fori' said Leah, proud of her cuteness —
and she was cute certainly.

For once in my Kfe,' Betsy went on, * I
thought I would work extra hard to save

money to bring me here ; and, in working extra
hard, I broke down a little.'

What do you want to see the wretch for V
'What wretch r

Your father.'

To see what he is like — to ask if I can do
any good, or be of any use when he comes
out.'

You'd better let that alone,' said Leah.

It is my duty, I fancy, now.'

^ Ah I you're eaten up by fancy,' was my
sister's last remark. ' I suppose if he was to be
let off you'd go to him, because it was your
duty.'

If he asked me — I would go. Oh ! yes.'

Though you know he's a bad un V

'Yes.'

And that there's no chance to make him a
good un V

Still— I'd try.'

And he'd drag you down instead — that's what
it would come to.'

No ; I should only die. That's all,' said
Betsy.

Leah bundled her work together and pitched
it in one corner.

I haven't patience with a bit of a thing Eke
you a-talking like that !' she said, as she walked
off to bed. Betsy prepared to follow her, coming
first to my side, as I stood smoking outside
the door.

David,' she said, * have you patience with
nef

0' course I have.'

Thank you. I am glad of that.'

So am I.'

She hasn't,' jerking her little head towards
the stairs, up which Leah had tramped without
much consideration for those already in bed and
fast asleep.

Oh! you mustn't mind her.'

She won't have any patience, any mercy —
as you will, David, when you are trying to
think the best of me, and when you and she
know '

What V I asked, as she came to a full stop.

That I haven't told her everything — that
I've kept a good deal back,' she said, all of a

flutter now, and not breathing at all regular.
Have you though V
Yes,' she said, in a whisper.

Well, you're not bound to tell her anything
or me either,' I said, by way of cheering her
up a peg or two. * It's not our business

*No, it is not. That's where you are right,
David — as you always are — dull as they think
you,' she said.

I was pleased at this. These were kind words
from her to me, and if others thought I was a
fool, she did not, which was comforting. I said
a Httle more.

I am only surprised you told her such a lot
about yourself and father, Betsy. I wouldn't
have done it; just as if I'd been drove to it,
too.'

I was drove,' she answered, ' for she knew
already. One of those men with the long coats
and peaky caps was speaking to her yesterday,
and asking who I was.'

What men V

The men who are always about here and on
the hills. The men who walk outside the prison,

night and day, with guns,' she added, with a
shiver.

Oh, the 'warders ! I know.'

And the men have seen me walking outside
the prison, too — for I've been outside, day after
day, just as if there was some comfort in being
nearer to him.'

*Ah!'

Do you think he is so very bad,' she asked,
and quite past hope, David ? For it's all truth
I have told you about him and me.'

*I daresay there's many worse than the —
gentleman. Why not V

This seemed to console her, for she said after
me, ' Why not V and then walked towards the
stairs on tip-toe, stopping with her little foot
upon the first one, and looking at me again, so
very strangely that I felt curdling and creepy.

You icill have patience with me, David.
Don't forget,' she said; then she went like a
ghost, so quiet-like, to her own room.

She left me a deal to think of, and I was not
fond of thinking. I did not like to know she
had not told us all, when I came to spell over

the subject, although a little while ago I had
agreed with her. I liked to think her frank,
and with no sham about her. In one week I
had got to fancy her a good deal, and to see her
as different from anybody else as chalk from
cheese. And yet she had been straight-forward
enough for half-a-dozen girls — straight-forward
enough to tell me she was not quite straightforward,
and to hope I should be patient with
her, when I came to know or guess a little more.
Which was odd — which was more and more
odd, the more and more I thought of it, leaning
against the door-post, with my hands in my
pockets, and the pipe, which had long since
burned itself out, still held tight between my
teeth.

I was very restless that night, and did not
think of sleep. It had been hard to find sleep
since I had been out of work, not having enough
work to knock the wakefulness away from me ;
so 1 leaned against the door-post, and took it
easy-like. For how long I didn't know, but I
must have gone to sleep in the open air, standing
up straight, like a statue, or a stuck pig, or

anything you care to call me, sir. It was a
dark night, and warm; the wind had changed
in the last four-and-twenty hom-s, and brought
a breath of spring with it; I never remembered
going off to sleep in the open air like that before.

The fact was, I thought so much of Betsy, of
all my sister had got her to say, of all she had
said herself after Leah had gone, that I thought
myself silly, and went off clean to sleep. All of
a sudden I woke up with a start, and banged
my head against the door-post — woke up, 1
might say, almost in a fright, as somebody
stumbled over my feet, and made a run for it
along the street towards the Chesil bank.

I had got thieves so across my mind, that I
was sure some one had slipped into the parlour
through the open door, whilst I had been dozing,
and robbed us Costerbadies, until T recollected
as a fact that there was nothing to take
away, and this set me right again. But then,
recollecting — and all this of a flash, though I
was not naturally quick — that the party falling
over me had caught me on the side next the
doorway, and so must have come clean out of

my own house, was to set my long legs after
him pretty sharp.

If there was one thing, besides quarry work,
that came natural to me, it was running, when
I was put to it ; and off T went Hke a rocket
after the party, who was scampering along close
to the houses, and not going it as fast as a man
in a hurry to get away would go, as a rule.
When he was in the open, and was running and
clambering up the bank, as if he hoped to hide
there, or jump into the sea, or something, I could
see he had a bundle in his hand, which looked
like Leah's bundle, which she had pitched into
the corner of the room a little while ago. A
sense of being wronged and robbed set me off
now at double-quick, and I was on him the next
moment, and then over him, and then under
him, and then over him again, with my knees
upon his chest, and my hands upon his throat.

Hold hard ! Don't choke a fellow ! I give
up,' the man gasped out; and 1 was gentler
with him, and got my knees, one by one, off his
chest.

Who are you — and what are you V I asked.

Your prisoner — isn't that enough?'

« No, it isn't

Don't make a row. For mercy's sake, don't
make a row until you've heard me out !' he
urged ; ' I'm clean done for.'

Is that my bundle V I inquired.
'No.'

You took it out of the house yonder. I'll
swear you did.'

It's my own property.'

It's a lie,' I said ; ' but get up, you rascal,
and come back with me.'

He got up, with a little trouble and some help
of mine, and stood by me trembling Hke a jelly.
He was not a strong man ; he saw he was no
match for me, and it was not worth his while to
try to get away. As he stood up straight, and
with no end of trouble too, as if I had hurt him,
I saw what he was at once, dark as it was, and
with only a blurred outline of a man to look at.
I had seen so many poor devils like him — all of
one pattern, and not to be wrapped away even
by the dark night.

You've escaped from the prison.'

'Yes, that's it,' he answered.

'How on earth did you manage that?' I asked.
It isn't often a man gets away from there.'

'And it's hard when he does,' answered the
man, sulkily, ' and after all his plotting, planning,
working, cursing, praying, to come to such
an end as this. I'd rather you shoot me than
give me up to them again.'

I never said I was going to give you up.'

You're not !' he said ; ' good fellow, brave
fellow, God bless you, whoever you are ! God
bless you, sir !'

And the man's voice broke, and his hands,
which were shaking like a leaf, seized mine, and
wrung them with a tighter grip than when he
had clutched me on the beach.

'And I never said I was going to let you go,'
I added; at which the man shuddered, and
dropped my hands, and slunk back from me.
It all depends upon that bundle. So just you
come back ^vith me into the light. D'ye hear V

It's mine, I tell you.'

Are you coming back, or shall I make you V
I asked.

*ril come. I can't do anything else. Let
me lean upon your arm, if you don't mind, mate.
I'm hurt — awfully.'

Did I do it?'

No ; I scrambled down the rocks from the
prison, and missed my footing and fell. So I
got up a maimed, damned wretch like this.'

That's why I bested you so 'easily V

Yes— that's it.'

The man passed his arm through mine, and
crawled with me towards the house, groaning
with every step he took. We went into the
parlour together, where he dropped into my
father's Windsor-chair, into which I guided him.
I stood over him whilst I struck a lucifer and
lighted the candle, which the draught, or the
man, had blown out whilst I was dozing at my
post. And then I saw, clutched in his hand, a
bundle of things tied up in a big red-cotton
handkerchief, all red with white spots, the very
bundle which Betsy Watson had carried from
the steamer on the day she came to Portland.

Well — you are a thundering thief to begin
again so quick — and an awful liar, too !' I said ;

*that bundle belongs to this house, and you
sneaked it off, a quarter-of-an-hour ago.'

I said it was my own — and that's the truth,'
muttered the man, between his teeth.

No. It can't be the tmth.'

x4nd I can't explain. Don't ask me — what's
the use ? Give me some water, for I'm fit to
die.'

There was a jug of water on the table, and I
held it to his Hps, which had turned very grey.
Yes, the man was ill, and had been knocked
about a good deal, and was fit for nothing, save
to pity, perhaps.

1 did not know why 1 should pity him, — but
he looked so helpless and broken-down a
wretch, with his two big eyes, like an animal's,
watching me in fear, and trjang to guess by
my broad face what I was thinking of. His
was the face of a man of forty-five — though I
thought it was an old man's face as I looked at
it then ; it was so full of lines, the skin was so
dark and withered, and the close-cut hair upon
his head was as white as snow. There was
blood upon his forehead and nose, and upon his

hands and convict dress — lie was a nasty sight
to look at, take him altogether, and it did not
come to my dull wits who he was, and why he
had walked into my house on his way from
gaol. I was not quick at guess-work ever. I
have said so. It did not come to me till, with
my ears pricked up, I heard the softest tread
upon the stairs, and some one coming down
them, step by step, pausing at each and listening
to our talk, and then coming on again.
There was only one who could tread as light as
that in Chesil, and before she joined us I
guessed the truth of it, as I ought to have done
before. I put my hand on his shoulder, and
said, in a low voice,

Your name is Watson V
Well,' he answered, ' and if it is ?'
The father of the girl who's coming to us
now ?' I asked, hoarsely.

Yes,' he said, with a groan ; * God help us
both— that's it !'

It was no use denying it, and he knew it as
well as I did. I daresay he would have told a
lie if he could have done it easy, and spared her

or himself; but with her coming towards him,
dressed as I had seen her last, and with her big
brown eyes staring wide at me, and looking as
if she hated me already, there was not much use
contradicting it by a single word again. She
went towards him, and put her arms about his
neck, and drew the bruised head to her side,
and smoothed the short white hair upon it.

Yes, this is my father,' she said ; * what are
you going to do with him, David V

I looked from her to him.

I don't know,' I answered ; ' it's not my
business to hurt him, or to give him up — or — or
anything.'

He did not steal that bundle — I gave it him.
I brought it from London for him,' she explained,
in a low voice; 'it contains clothes
which he was to change for this dreadful prison
dress

Lor ! You knew he was going to
escape V

Yes, I did,' she confessed.
How was that V

Some one came to her at Whitechapel, and
VOL. II. H

told her so,' explained the father, ' and to ask
her to be ready for me any night after the
twenty-second. A man out of his time sneaked
that message to her for me, with the prison
brutes never a bit the wiser. Oh, no !'

He almost smiled, until a twinge of pain
brought him to his miserable self again.

You've worked it well between the lot of
you,' I said, rubbing the bumps upon my forehead,
and feeling lost and silly at all this.

Do you call it well?' he downright hissed at
me ; ' to be crippled like this, and with no power
to move hand or foot — to be dragged back
presently to the cruel slavery of a Hfe like
mine ! Fourteen full years of it now, too, by
God ! Think of it, man— think of it !'

I was thinking of it already, and it was making
me feel very miserable, with Betsy's brown eyes
watching me all the while.

Yes, it's bad enough,' I said ; * it's precious
bad, I know. But haven't you deserved it?'

Perhaps I have,' he muttered. ' But there's
lots to be said on my side, for with no one ever
caring for me, or being better than myself, I

grew to this, of course. Betsy,' he said, turning
to his daughter, ' who is this — this giant of a
man?'

Mr. Costerbadie — he Hves in this house —
where I lodge.'

Very poor, ain't you V he asked, sharply
now.

Yes, very poor I said.

And honest,' added Betsy.

Ay, he's had a better start than I had, I'll be
bound,' said Watson.

And generous,' concluded Betsy, and I felt
myself blushing all over as she went on ; ' a
good, warm-hearted fellow, father, who is my
friend, and who will be your friend for my sake,
even at some risk ; who will hide you, and protect
you somehow till you're strong again, and
not give you up as any coward would.'

I was very dull, but hardly quite as dull as
not to see the drift of this, for all the way in
which she put it ; and not to see the danger of
it either to the lot of us ; to her especially, who
was very much upon my mind, I tell you, sir —

h2

more than she could possibly think, considering
the little time I'd known her.

Yes, I saw all the danger — but this was
Betsy's father. And I knew Betsy's father was
a blackguard, and not worth thinking of overmuch
or getting into trouble for, but I said,
slowly.

I'll hide you, if I can.'

'God bless you, Davie!' cried Betsy, with
trembling lips and tears springing in her eyes —
so quick, that I could have cried myself just to
keep her company.

« I don't think as how He will for taking care
of him,' I said, pointing to my father ; ' and it
isn't for his sake, but for yours, I'll chance
getting into prison along with him. That's all.'

The convict looked from me to Betsy curiously,
and then from Betsy to me again.

It's not a bit of use,' he said at last, and he
groaned hard again as he said it ; ' where could
this chap hide me where I shouldn't be pounced
upon half an hour afterwards ? Is there such a
place in Portland V he asked.

I'll try and find one.'

'But is there r

« I don't think there is. Still, I'll do my best.
You're hurt, you see, and '

Yes, yes, that's it,' he answered ; * that's the
cruel mischief of it. If I had been as well and
strong as I was yesterday, I might have got
away.'

You might,' I said, doubtfully.
And now I get you and Betsy into trouble
instead.'

And Betsy's been a good girl all her life,' I
put in here.

How do you know V he asked.

She's told me so.'

The man actually laughed at this, and patted
the hands that were clasped about his neck —
laughed so loudly, that had not Leah and the
rest of them been sound sleepers they must have
heard him in their rooms.

Here's a man with faith in you, Betsy, and
believes every word you say, and takes it down
for gospel truth— and which it is,' he said, turning
suddenly to me, « for I have kept her away
from Dick Watson all my Hfe, and so have

kept her good. That's something, ain't it?'

'Yes.'

But I was getting tired of that,' he went on ;
'and when her letters reached me, now and
then, and were full of pity for me, and were
clever letters, too, that told me she Alas brisk
and sharp, and so on, I thought if I could get
away she would be of mighty help to me.'

In— what V I asked.

In what I have been brought up to all my
life, and am only clever in myself,' he cried, as
if in spite now ; * do you think I can begin anything
else at my age, you big idiot V

Betsy had turned very pale, and the hands
about his neck were trembling very much.

« Mine was a different view of Hfe, father,' she
whispered ; ' it was of a place away from here,
where you and I might have begun very humbly
but worthily — something ! I thought if I could
get you away — if I only could — I '

That'll do,' he answered, hoarsely, ' I don't
want to hear it. It's a picture, but it ain't
reality. There's no more good in it than in me.'

And yet there was some good in this waste of

a man, and it came out, too, in a queeiish way —
and where I least expected it. And this is how
it came out.

He looked up suddenly to Betsy.

Do you mind leaving us for a quarter of an
hour, and going to your room ? I want to talk
to this man.'

Betsy looked sm-prised.

You can trust me with him, can't you?' he
asked, almost fretfully.

Oh : yes.'

And if he gave me up — why, Betsy, it
wouldn't matter much. You're saved, he's saved,
and it's only the old life again for me ; and if
we get away,' he added, fiercely, ' it means,
mind, my thief's life, with you to help me always.
None of your weeping and wailing penitence forme
; it isn't in my hne, and I won't have it.
There !'

Betsy shivered and moved away.

We will talk of this presently, you and I together,'
she answered, * and with God's help.'

Very well. But go away now — and, Betsy — '

Yes.'

Kiss me, will you V he growled out ; * there,
now hook it.'

As Betsy went softly upstairs, Dick Watson
scuffled to his feet, put his arm through mine
again, and said, in a thick, low voice,

Come on, gov'ner ! Take me away, get me
out of this.'

I don't know where to take you.'

Back to prison, you dolt ! Don't you see I'm
only fit for that V

Oh ! I see that plain enough,' I answered.

And that's where I am going ; I won't have
her brought into the scrape. I won't have you.
Do you hear ? don't you understand V he cried ;
if I could have got away, I'd have altered my
mind now.'

You're going to give yourself up V

Something like it. Come on ! Let's get out
of your house, I can't breathe in it somehow.'

*But — Betsy?' I asked, as we walked from
the house together.

I have said good-bye to her. You can tell
her tomorrow I wasn't going to get her into
trouble, and that life with me would have been

all 1 said just now. You need not,' he said,
talk about my repentance, or any of that humbug;
but for all that, Costerbadie, my pluck
failed me at the last. She's better without me.'

We were in the dark high-road together, and
making towards the higher ground, at a slow
and painful rate for him. His arm was like a
lump of iron upon mine, as he leaned with all his
weight upon it.

You'll never be able to go much further,
man,' I said, « but I daresay I can carry you.'

I'll go till I drop,' he answered, between his
teeth, ' and taking our time we shall be able todo
it. I'm in no particular hurry !' and here he
laughed again, like a man who had no end of
fun in him, and was letting some of it off now,
like steam.

Presently he said,

You don't persuade me to alter my mind V

No.'

For Betsy's sake, ain't it?'
Yes ; that's it.'

Just as for Betsy's sake you'd have tried to
hide me for a time?'

Yes, exactly.'

Not a bad sort, you,' he muttered, *and with
some sorrow in you even for a fellow like me,
though you don't show it much.'

I'm not sorry for you,' I said, bluntly enough ;
but he did not seem to take any notice.

Tell her I was determined to go back to
prison, will you, Costerbadie T

She'll think I have taken you there, and will
hate me after this,' I said.

She will soon understand,' he replied ; ' she
will see it as clear as day, and bear in mind all
1 said to her just now. She's not as dull as you
are.'

Don't you think she'll follow us when the
quarter of an horn is up T

« Ah ! she may ; let us get on a bit faster.
Hark— what's that r

We stopped to listen. There came the grind,
grind of heavy feet in the distance and coming
down the hill.

'Two of them!' he said, after a minute's
pause : * two of the warders.'

Perhaps not.'

As if I didn't know that infernal tread by this
time ! as if I hadn't heard it day after day, year
after year I Catch hold of roy collar, will you ?
Quick !'

What for r

You've found me, and are dragging me backs
he cried. ' That's five pounds in your pocket,
for your loyalty to the Crown ; it's always five
pounds' reward. Don't you understand V

Yes — but Betsy ! Oh ! Lord's sake, what
will she think of me now V

The five pounds is for her ; she ^^-ill not have
a penny when .she gets back to London. Give
it to her, as a little present from me !'

But '

'Man, it's your only chance of not being
dragged in as my accomplice ; it's her only
chance too. Catch bold, you fool !'

1 held him by the collar, and then the prison
men were before us — two black shadows of
men, who carried guns under their arms. As
they approached, Watson said to me, in a loud
voice,

You need not hold as tight as that unless

you want to choke me; I'm coming quiet enough,
ain't I?— and here's the cursed slops to help
you

The men were facing us now, with their guns
very handy for shooting us both down.

Watson !' cried one, * and out of prison !'

Ah! and caught again,' said Watson. ' Haven't
they missed me yet?'

No, hanged if they have !' growled the
officer ; * and who's the man that's caught you V

David Costerbadie, quarryman,' I said.
Where did you find him V

On the Chesil bank,' answered Watson forme,
' and the big brute has been jumping on me
to keep me still. He's nearly done for me.'

Serve you right,' was all the officer's reply.

And that's the shabby way, sir, I got Dick
Watson's daughter out of trouble, and it was a
long while before she forgave me, or understood
it, or would see anything but a double face in
me ; and when she did see it all clearly I was
very unhappy, and that seemed to bring it
round pretty quick, and open her eyes of a sudden

to the truth of it. Opened her eyes by
little and little, too, to the fact that I was fond
of her, and so she did not go back to Whitechapel
ever any more, but found work to do in the
town until I got into full work soon afterwards
myself, and on the strength of it got married.
That was two years before Dick Watson died
in Portland prison.

He never got out of gaol to begin his new
life, or take up his old one, and I think it was
just as well. He had done a good tui'n in his
life in leaving Betsy to herself; and the day
before he died, when Betsy was allowed to see
him, and say good-bye to him, he was very
proud of that.

It's one to me, Betsy, now they've come to
the long reckoning,' were the last words he said
to my good lady, sir.

TO BE CALLED FOR.

CHAPTER L

I DO not know why I should keep this story ta
myself — to myself and second self, more correctly
speaking — any longer. There is nigh upon a
score of years between the time of its happening
and now, and all the harm the telling of it
might have done is as dead and gone as Uncle
Samuel is. But to begin at the beginning —
which is shipshape and suits me, being an
orderly man always.

My uncle Samuel was my guardian, my
father and uncle rolled into one, and took care
of me after my own father was drowned. My
mother was Uncle Samuel's sister, and became
his housekeeper after father's death, attended to

VOL. 11. I

her brother's business when he was out at sea,
put up with all his bad tempers when he was on
shore, and was 'a perfect slave to the old brute,*
it was said in Deal, though my mother was
only a hard working woman, and Sam Angle
was not exactly a brute. However, my mother
did not live to see my brother at his worst — that
was in the latter years of his life, when he lost
the proper use of his Hmbs, and had to creep
about the house, changing to the walls and
furniture, or to toddle down the street with a
couple of crutches which would always go very
wide apart, and which he was never able to use
with any fair amount of grace. At this period
of his career Samuel Nangle was certainly trying,
and no one was more certain of that than
myself, his nephew Martin Townshend, at your
service. The most trying time was when I was
about five-and-twenty years of age, and mother
had been dead fifteen out of them. Then he loss
a trouble to most folk who had anything to do
with him, to me in particular, to whom the care
of the ' Flying Fish ' inn, and of the * Flying Fish*
steam-tug, and of my uncle, the proprietor of

both these Flying Fish, had come by way of
natural sequence, as the saying is.

*Not that you're going to have my little
tug, when I'm dead and gone, Martin,' my
uncle would say, * they're both too good for you,
and I haven't slaved and toiled and boiled all
these blessed years to fatten a lazy hunks Hke
you. Don't expect anything from my death, or
you'll be more out of your reckoning than you
have ever been in your life. You've been too
pig-headed, too stuck up, too damned silly to
please me, and you must take the consequences.
And I hope before you die, Martin, and when
you find yourself in the workhouse, that you'll be
sorry you didn't treat me better when you had
somebody to see after you, and to keep a house
over your soft head. There, get out.' And I
got out accordingly, and left him to his own
company in the little room at the back of the
bar, where nobody came now to smoke a pipe or
drink a glass of grog with him, my uncle having
insulted everybody all round long ago, and lost
all his customers, who would not come and spend
money and get drunk in his back parlour, to be

I 2

told they were fools and asses, and encumbrances
on the face of the earth, and gibbering,
slobbering idiots, who knew no more about
Deal, or ships, or the sea than his spittoon
there.

It was Uncle Samuel's idea — and I am rather
disposed to think that all uncles have a weakness
this way — that no one knew anything save
himself, that no one had ever done anything
that was worth mentioning except himself, that
no one had ever been so wise, so careful, so
far-seeing, so lucky, so plucky as he, and it was
his great affliction now that, though everybody
knew this as well as he did, there was no one
to say it to his face like a man, or give him any
credit for it. He knew that was human nature,,
for he knew everything, but he sat in his big
chair by the fire and cursed human nature for
all that, and, when tired of cursing human
nature in the abstract, he would set to work
cursing me.

Well, yes, a dreadful man in many ways, I
own it. There was not much disguising of it
in Deal, though I did my best to keep the old

man's name sweet in Bilge Street, where he
lived.

Why you don't cut and run from him, I
can't make out,' was said to me by way of
sage advice. ' The way you're treated, too. It's
abominable I'

But I could not cut and run from so helpless
an old man. He was so terribly alone, and my
mother's brother, too, who had taken care of us
when father went to the bottom of the sea. My
uncle told me about twice a day I was stopping
for what I could get — what would come to me
after he was gone ; but he had already warned
me there would be nothing for my share, and I
knew that lawyers had been sent for, and his
will made long ago, and I was out of it. Uncle
Samuel had one virtue — he was always charmingly
frank — ' infernally rude,' some people said
and he led me distinctly to understand that I
was * out of it ' for many reasons that he was
not going to explain to a jabbering parrot like
me, who would go and tell all Deal half-an-hour
after I had heard them. Sometimes I fancied
that he wanted me to get away, though what

he would have done without me heaven knows,
I do not. But then I am a Httle conceited, like
my uncle. He always said I was stuck up, and,
if so, it was in the family. Whether Uncle
Samuel was rich or poor was a matter of grave
speculation to me, and more than me. It was
generally considered that he was a rich man —
that he must have made a lot of money, and
have a rare long stocking somewhere. If the
« Flying Fish ' inn had not been a profitable
speculation, the * Flying Fish ' tug had been,
and he in the days of his health and strength
had certainly been a shrewd fellow, and not
overburdened in any way by principles. He
had had his trials, certainly — he had even been
tried for smuggling — but the tug had brought
him in considerable profits, and he was invariably
so early at a wreck that there were a few
evil-minded folk to fancy he must have arranged
the wreck beforehand, which, of course, was not
always possible. And he had never been afraid
of work — downright hard, awful work, in the
face of the storm, and of the death which the
storm threatened, and Dare Devil Sam had

been his nickname in the town for years, before
his dare-devilship stumped about the streets on
crutches.

I remember the last winter I spent with my
uncle very well ; it was a memorable season,
and his manners were peculiar, even for him. He
was getting worse and worse, they said in Bilge
Street ; the neighbours were not safe from scoffs
and taunts when they passed him in the street,
and the Httle children shrieked at sight of him
and ran away, though their big brothers made
up for this by throwing stones. In the corner
of the bar-parlour he was only bearable when
fast asleep, or after his fourteenth glass of grog,
when he would become boastful of his past exploits,
or maudlin over the helplessness which
hindered him from repeating them. Even in his
miserable old age he seemed to love the sea,
and to be more keen and clear in his faculties
when he could hear it roaring and breaking on
the beach, with the wind shrieking like a
woman. One winter's night, when the elements
were going it in real earnest, he sat huddled in
his big chair, with his legs on a footstool, and a

warm rug round him, listening with grave satisfaction
to the storm.

Had I been as young as you are, I would
have been out in this he said to me. ' 1
wouldn't have been hulking here scouring pewter
pots.'

I had done my scouring long ago, but it was
his neat way of putting it.

It's a roughish night,' I said, not caring to
aggravate him by any defence, now that he was
a little pleasant in his manner.

I should have had steam up in the " Flying
Fish," and gone. That's where the pull is, for the
ships are sure to go to pieces, or run ashore on
a night Hke this, as sure as thunder and lightning,
death and the devil, boy.'

Yes, exactly,' I said ; ' and you were never
afraid of danger?'

Afraid I' he roared forth. 'I was never afraid
of anything, you fool, you ! I never stopped at
anything, or let anything stop me; what I wanted
I had always. If they said I shouldn't have
it, I took it for myself

'If who said r

What's that to you ? And so I've got pretty
warm and comfortable, and '

I vent-ed to supply a word.

xlnd happy V

*No, you wretched, limp, underdone, hairdresser
of a man — not happy. Who could be
happy with you 1 Who could be happy with
a blazing pair of legs like these, and with '

Then he was silent suddenly, and I mixed him
another glass of rum-and-water at a peculiar
sign he was accustomed to make, with one hand
and one eye, and which meant rum and water,
hot, with a slice of lemon in it. Ho did not say
any more. He became strangely silent for him;
for, when he had not me to talk to, he would talk
to himself for hours — talk himself to sleep, and
then go on muttering in his dreams in a rare,
busy fashion. But that night he grew suddenly
still and quiet, and stared before him strangely
at a Grace Darling picture on the opposite wall,
and continued to stare after I had left him to
attend to a customer in the shop, who was a
little impatient, and kept tapping so persistently
with a piece of money on the pewter-covered

counter, that I had quite made up my mind to
sauce him for his hurry. But it was not a * him.'
When I had reached the shop, which was down
a long passage, and a good distance from the
parlour, between which and the shop there were
more rooms than one, the flying Fish' inn being
a rambling old place, 1 discovered my customer
to be a female, a young female, and a pretty
one, too, for all her pale face and big blue staring
eyes. I did not know her for one of my
neighbours — for anyone in Deal, where I knew
everyone by sight, and 1 was sure she was a
foreigner before she spoke a word. Her dress
was very dark, but it was peculiar ; her hair was
very light, her hat or bonnet seemed rather of a
queer shape, and there were two fanny Httle
crystal crosses in her ears.

What can I get you, lady?' I asked at last,
as she continued to look at me — to regard mein
my turn in the light of a curiosity.

Then she spoke in English, but with a foreign
accent, and in a very low tone.

You cannot be the man,' she said, wondering
ugly — *you are younger, taller, different altogether.

You do not answer the description ;
you '

What man do you want?'

I wish to see Mr. Samuel Nangle, of the
*' Flying Fish," ' she answered.

This is the " Lying Fish," and Mr. Nangle is
my uncle.'

'He is alive?'
Oh, yes.'

And well V

Not well. He has not been well and strong
for years, but then he is very old.'

Yes, I know.'

I was surprised at the extent of her knowledge,
but waited for her to inform me of the
object of her visit.

Is he indoors V

Yes.'

Can I see him?'

'Ye— es, I think so,' I said, hesitatingly,
although it's late in the evening, and he is
not particularly nice to visitors, as a rule.'

He expects me !'

My — my Uncle Samuel — expects you !' I
exclaimed.

*Yes, he has been expecting me for sometime,'
was the quiet explanation proffered, ' for
days, months, years, I daresay. He has been
always certain I should come. Why, it was assure
I should call some day as that the sun will
rise tomorrow.'

For the first time she smiled, and I liked the
look of her when she smiled.

*ril tell my uncle you have come then,' I
said.

Thank you ; do.'

Who — who shall I say has called V

Bertha Keefeland. He will know the name.'

Indeed !'

Has he never spoken of it to you V

Never.'

That's strange,' she remarked. ' Has he
altered very much of late years V

Yes, very much.'

'People do. Well, tell him I have come,
young man.'

I was proceeding in a wondering, dreamlike
fashion towards the long, dark passage again,
when she called back, and said,

'Is his memory as good as it used to be?
Old people forget ; my father did, sadly — very
sadly.'

Her face shadowed at some reminiscence, and
I said,

I think his memory is pretty good for most
things.'

Still, he may have forgotten,' was the
thoughtful comment here ; ' the name may have
even passed away altogether from his recollection.
He never speaks of me, you say V

He does not.'

'Perhaps it will be as well to say Caspar
Keefeland's daughter.'

'I'll make a point of doing so.'

And if he's too old, or too ill to see me, I
will not worry him,' she continued. ' Only tell
him to let me have the sandal-wood box which
was left here to be called for.'

'To be called for r

Yes. Which my father left with him —
which he told him I should fetch some day.'

Oh ! did hew I said, completely bewildered
now, and wondering at all this, and what it

meant, and what was to follow. I was borne
down by grim forebodings, which closed thick
and fast about me as I shambled my way along
the dark passage to the inn-parlour.

CHAPTER II. •

Uncle Samuel Nangle was sitting very much
in the same position as I had left him, only he
had dropped his rum-and-water from his hands,
and the glass lay shattered into a hundred
pieces on the floor. He was still staring at the
picture portraying Grace Daring s heroism, or
at a something beyond the picture, very faraway
indeed, and which troubled him that
night. I should have fancied in another minute
that he had had a stroke of something, if he
had not said to me very plainly, but huskily, as
I came into the room,
What is it, Martin V

A visitor.'

A what V

A visitor,' I repeated. ' Somebody who

wants to see you, and who has come a long
way to see you, I should say,' was my reply.

A long way, is it V he muttered ; ' you don't
mean from the grave, Martin ? You wouldn't
frighten an old man in that way V

Certainly not,' I cried ; ' why, is that like meat
any time V

Nothing is like you,' he said, slowly and reflectively
; * I don't call to mind anybody just
now who was ever such a fool as you are.'

My uncle was coming round to his old manner
now, and I was glad of it. His staring fit
was over, and it had scar-ed me just a little. I
had fancied something was going to happen,
ha^ang been full of fancies all that day.

Well, who is it wants to see me f he asked,
querulously. * Who's come all of a hurry to ask
after my health, and to wish me joy of it V

« It's a young girl I'

'Eh?'

«A foreigner — German, without doubt, or
Dutch, perhaps.'

'EhV

A pretty girl, but very pale.'

Eh ? oh ! go on. With glass crosses in her
ears?'

Why, yes. But have '

And what's her name, Martin V he asked now,
very eagerly.

Bertha Keef eland !'

Xo — no — no — that's a lie. That's a dreadful
He of somebody's,' he roared forth, suddenly. ' I
tell you it can't be !'

Oh I but it is, uncle,' I explained ; * and she's
come, she says, for the sandal-wood box which
was left here to be called for.'

There's no sandal-wood box,' he exclaimed,
in the same loud key. ' There's no Bertha Reefed
for she has been dead these six years.
There's no '

And then he fell forward, with a horrible screech,
face foremost on the floor, and I ran to him and
picked him up, and wiped the dust off his hard,
rugged cheeks and forehead, and put him back
again in the big chair from which he had pitched
out. I was as sorry to see him struck down
like that as if I had loved him, or he had loved
me a little, and I scuttled into the bar again for

VOL. n. K

water, for the help of the young woman, who
might run for a doctor for me, or mind my uncle
whilst I ran myself. But the shop was empty,
and there was no Bertha Keefeland waiting forme
to come back with my uncle's answer to her
message.

CHAPTER III.

The host of the ' Flying Fish ' did not recover
from the fright or the malady which had seized
him. He was one remove nearer to the end of
his time now ; I knew as well as possible that he
would never want his crutches any more, and
that one of these fine days or nights he would
be sailing clean away.

He knew it himself, I think, though the
doctor had not warned him. The doctor had
left it to me, who was not Hkely to be a good
hand at breaking to the old man such news as
that, and who did not care to tell him, and
thought it was as well not to tell him, as
it was not likely to do him any good. I did ask
him if he would like to see the parson, and he
swore at me with such fluency for the suggested



ion, that I thought for a minute or two he was
getting rapidly better. But he wound up in a
"milder fashion.

Parsons ain't any good to me,' he said, * are
they?'

« Well, 1 don't think they are much.'

I always hated parsons. I haven't seen one
of my own accord since I was christened. I've
kept out of their Avay.'

Yes, you have.'

I know I have,' he added. * I could have
told the parson a blessed sight more than he
could have ever told me. And, besides, saltwater
doesn't mix with holy water, does it V

« I don't know.'

No. You don't know much.'

He did not say any more that day. He was
very thoughtful at times now, as he had been
on the night when he was spoken to. From the
day of his last illness to this — a fortnight afterwards
nearly — he had never alluded to the girl
who had called at the < Flying Fish,' and whom
I had not set eyes on since that stormy night.
And yet I believe he was thinking of her a good

deal, and of the message she had sent to him by
me. Presently I knew he was thinking of her,
and could think of nothing else.

One day, and a very long and thoughtful day
it was to him, he beckoned me to his bedside
with his thick, crooked finger. He had got very
hoarse, and there was a difficulty in making out
all he said, but I had managed it somehow
during the morning and afternoon.

Martin,' he croaked forth, almost Hke a raven,
I don't fancy I'm quite as well as usual tonight.'


Perhaps it is fancy, uncle V

'Am I looking as well? I don't want any
lies about it !'

I don't see much difference in you.'

Then I don't suppose th-ere is. You were
never much of a liar, Martin. You have been
over-particular that way, and that's bad for a
man who means to stick to business, hard and
fast'

I'm not so sm-e of that.'

But I am, and that's enough, ain't it V

All right,' I said, although I knew it was all

wrong, and so had begun lying on my own
account. But I did not wish the old gentleman
to get excited over any argument. ' Give him
his own way had been the doctor's orders ;
'let him say and do what he pleases.'

*1 know I am not going to get over this,
Martin,' my uncle said. 'That's all square
enough ; and I've had my innings, and don't
grumble. But, Martin, where the devil am I
going to?'

• For mercy's sake, don't go on like this !'

I didn't reckon on her calling for me — on her
waiting for me,' he muttered. 'Fancy her
always with me afterwards. . It's awful !'

Do you mean '

Then I came to a full stop, but he understood
me.

Yes, I mean that girl.'

'Bertha Keefelandf

Yes, Bertha Keefeland.'

How can she be waiting for you, uncle V

Didn't she come two weeks ago V

Why, yes.'

She came out of her coffin,' he whispered,.

and I was waiting for her that night. She
had been upon my mind all day. 1 couldn't
get her out of my head. She was troubling it
very much.'

That's all nonsense,' I cried. < She was flesh
and blood, I'll swear

He shook his head.

No, she wasn't,' he said ; ' how could she be V

I could not reason with him. He was so
convinced to the contrary, and I was perplexed
and horseflesh. Certainly Bertha Keefeland
had mysteriously disappeared, after giving me
the message to my uncle, but people are always
disappearing and being advertised for, and turning
up again. And this might have even been
a practical joke, only — and then I thought of a
sandal wood box, which was upstairs, and had
been upstairs for years, on the top of a tall,
double chest of drawers belonging to my uncle,
and the mystery of it was beyond my fathoming.

But he let in the light upon it presently, and
it was a red Hght, warning him of danger — a
light as red as blood.

She couldn't have been flesh and blood,

j\Iartin,' he went on, slowly ; * for, six years
ago, when you were away in London once, she
came into this house, into that shop downstairs,
just as she did a fortnight since, said she was
Bertha Keef eland, and had called for the box
her father had left with me.'

Good gracious !'

She was tall, and thin, and pale, with glass
crosses in her ears, and she knew very little
English, and spoke it very badly. Ts that the
girir

It answers the description,' I answered, with
a shudder. ' Well, she has called again, that's
all'

Yes, she's certainly called again,' he repeated,
grimly.

'Well, then '

But,' he added, with a look which I shall
never forget, and which silenced me at once — a
look which comes to me often and often in my
sleep still, and gives me awful nightmares, 'I
killed her on the night she called to see me
first, and for three days her body lay behind the
big vat in the cellar where the whisky is, until

one dark night I took it down to the beach, and
the sea earned it away for me, and there was an
end of it, I thought. An end ! As if there
can be an end to things Hke that — as if she was
not to come back some day just as she has done.
I feel that's a clean breast of it, Martin, and you're
not the man to put a rope round my neck for
telling you ; not you.'

Xo. Xot I.'

I stood and looked at him, and wondered if
he were raving at the last — for I did not think
there were many more hours of life in him, and
his senses might have left him first, as they will
do sometimes, perhaps out of politeness. Could
it be possible, I thought, that my uncle was a
murderer, that this was true, and that the Bertha
Keefeland of a fortnight since was a spirit from
another world? "Were there, after all, such
things as ghosts to walk the earth and avenge
the deeds which made them so ? To look upon
this agitated, earnest old man was to believe it
almost. It seemed so awfully like the truth
coming from those thin white lips. And presently
I did not even doubt it.

I don't mind telling you the rest of it, Martin
you'll understand then why I haven't left you
any money in my will. It's more than twenty
years ago when Caspar Keefeland and I were
friends first — when he fell sick one day, in this
very room, and was afraid he should die before
he got back to his native village, and the wife
and baby he had left behind him there. He
travelled a good deal between Russia and
England, and always put up at the " Flying
Fish." The last time I am talking about — when
he was ill, that is — he had bought with him a
box made of sandal-wood, a legacy, he told me,
from a rich relation who had died in London
that year. Before he left Deal, he got the
notion into his head that he should die before
he reached home, and so he asked me to take
care of the box and its contents, being pretty
sure his mates would stick to it if he shouldn't
live to get off shipboard. For some reason, too,
he did not want his wife to know of this at
present. '' It'll be a surprise to her some day,"
he said, " and for Bertha. I'll leave it-with you
to be called for, Sam," he said; "it's safe with

you as with the Bank of England. Bertha shall
come here for it some day, when she grows to
be a woman — that's time enough. I don't want
for anything now ; I may then. I can trust you,
Sam, and I can only trust you, to keep it safe
for her. And, if I should die before I get home,
you'll take it to Germany yourself. Say that's
a promise ?" And 1 said it was a promise. Soit
was.'

Well r I gasped. ' Go on.'

But Caspar did get home, though he was
taken worse on the journey. He was never fit
for much work again. He was something like
I've been of late years, lad, I'd heard — a ,
a studied Guy Fawkes, a scarecrow
of the cussedest. But he sent me one linCj
which somebody wrote for him : *' Keep? it till
called for' it said, '' till Bertha comes'' and I kept
it.'

'And she career

Yes. Don't be in a hurry ; you're always in
such a beastly hurry,' he said. ' I haven't toil
you what was in the box.'

Did you know?'

One night I broke it open.'
*Mohr

I wasn't particular ; I never was over-particular,'
he said ; ' and I wanted to be sure
what Caspar was making all this fuss about.
And there were diamonds and large gold bits
of foreign money, and then more diamonds in
the queerest settings. They fetched a lot of
money.'

Did you sell them V

I was in difficulties,' he continued. ' I had
been tried for smuggling. There were heavy
expenses for my defence, and heavier fines to
pay, and I wanted money badly. When I
wanted money badly, I always got it somehow,
and Keefeland's jewels came in handy.'

That was dreadful.'

Old Keef eland took no notice, and nobody
called for the property. I thought he must
have forgotten to tell anybody about it,' he
went on ; * that he had gone off for good without
telling wife or child — that he had thought
I might as well have the things as anybody
rise. He was so very fond of me.'

I wonder why that was V I said.

You mind your own business, and wonder at
what I've got to tell you,' growled my uncle.
That'll be quite enough,' he added, with a
shudder, which lasted so long that I thought
he would shudder himself out of the world, and
so an end to him before this story. But he suddenly
ralHed, and went on — ' One night, though,
she did come — Bertha Keefeland^ at the same
time, on the same sort of night as the last, with
the wind roaring down the street, and shaking
all the windows. She walked into the place,
and asked me for* the box just as she asked you,
and I should have sooner seen her ghost then.
God knows I did not know what to do. I had
sold the jewels and the foreign money. I could
only see a prison for me, and — and I was always
a desperate fellow in my heart of hearts. I
asked her to step into the next room — the room
close to the bar, which I always keep locked.
You guess now why ? and — and — but I've told
you all the rest. You know — you know ! and
you have seen her risen from the dead. And
she will come once more for me, too ; we shall

see her walk into this room again, you and I
together ; now, mark my words. That's what
I am waiting for.'

Oh, don't get that into yom head.'
And I shouldn't like you to be out of the
way when she calls for me instead of for the
box. I'm to be called for now, so don't leave
me, Martin, not for a moment, there's a dear,
good lad.'

CHAPTER IV.

Was Uncle Nangle, after all, so very bad a
specimen of a murderer, or had he learned repentance
after his fashion, and understood what
remorse was — what atonement? He told me
before he died that he had left all his money to
the nearest of kin of Caspar Keefeland, whoever
he or she might be ; that it was on his conscience
or what he thought his conscience — that this
should be the destination of his money, which
was not half as much as people thought he had
scraped together. He told me something more
than this. That he had made himself as hard,
cruel, and brute-like as he could to me, so that
I should be glad, rather than sorry, when he
was gone — so that there should seem a natural
reason in his strong dislike of me for leaving
the money somewhere else. Even after his

death no one would suspect him of so babyish a
thing as restitution, he hoped. He would have
liked to die * hard as nails,' but it was not to be.
He could not have his own way in everything.
AYho can ?

I wasn't half as bad as I tried to be, Martin,
that's all,' he said to me the next night, when
he was lingering on still. * I wanted you to
hate me. But you wouldn't.'

His voice was a long way off now — he was
much weaker — he could hardly lift his hand
from the bed-clothes. He was not likely now
to spin me any more of his long yarns. That
very night, again, I was trying hard to think it
incas a yarn, and nothing more.

Later on, he said, in a half-absent way, and
yet in a way that was strangely impressive tome,


She hasn't called for me yet. What a time
she keeps me waiting I^

I put my hand on his, which was fidgeting
restlessly outside the bed-clothes, and said,

Don't think anything more of such nonsense.
If it's all true you've told me '

If !' he murmured, indignantly.

Think of that a bit, and how sorry you are now.'

He stared at me like a man resenting my
advice ; then he made a sudden effort to sit up
in bed, and failed ; lastly, he clutched my hand
with both his own.

Fm — called — for I' he said. ' Here she is, by
God— at last !'

He gave a long sigh, shut his eyes, and died ;
and the breath had not been out of his worn old
body half a minute before, to my hoiTor and
amazement, the door was slowly and softly
opened, and there stole into the room the young
woman, or the ghost of the young woman, whoa
fortnight since had told me that her name
was Bertha Keefeland.

I thought, in that moment, it was the ghost of
Bertha — a ghost with glass earrings ! — for my
nerves were unstrung ; my uncle was just dead,
and his story wasnotfour-and-twenty hours old.
I cowered from her among the bed-curtains. I
was not half a man for the next five minutes. I
could hear my heart pounding away inside me
like a steam-hammer.

VOL. II. L

Here a very natural woman's voice exclaimed :

Dead I Oh, is he dead, my poor old father's
friend V

I looked round the curtains at her ; she was
bending over him with tears of interest in her
blue eyes. She had put a little hand upon his
cold, hard forehead. She was so uncommonly
unlike a ghost that I could not believe in Uncle
:Sanders story any more. His brain had given
way in his old age, and that was the explanation
of it. An odd coincidence or two —
life is all coincidences — had helped to make
the yarn remarkable, and that was all.

How long has he been dead !' she asked, in a
whisper, and as if afraid she might wake him.

Just a minute,'

I heard in Deal that he was very ill, and I
came to you at once. I could not make anybody
hear in the shop, so I thought 1 would not
run away again, but come upstairs to where the
footsteps were. I guessed what was happening,'
she said, sorrowfully, ' and I had hoped to see
him once before his death ; to give him poor
father's message — father's thanks.'

You — you have never seen him before
then?'

Never.'

You have never been in England before this
year V I asked.

Never.'

'And you are Bertha Keef eland — Caspar
Keefeland's daughter?'
Oh, yes.'

Poor old Uncle Tangle,' I murmured, looking
at him, ' how your mind wandered at the last, to
be sure !'

Did he speak of me V she asked.

Yes. I should rather think he did.-*

My coming to England distressed him a
deal, reminding him, 1 daresay, so much of
father.'

Hum I perhaps it did.'

*' Don't tell him everything too suddenly —
he's oldHke me," said my father, before he died,'
she continued : ' " give him plenty of time to
think matters over — say you'll call again, or
anything." And when, a fortnight ago, I heard
him shriek out after you had taken in. my

l2

message to him, I felt I had been too hasty, and
I crept away at once, giving him more time, as
father wished

« Oh ! I see.'

« See what?'

That yom father was a wonderfully considerate
man. And yet '

And yet she repeated.

'My uncle never seemed exactly the man
for anybody to be considerate about,' I concluded.


My father liked him very much always. I
don't thinkyoucouldhaveunderstoodyouruncle,'
she said, thoughtfully, almost reproachfully.

Well, I suppose I didn't,' I confessed.

1 have a little more to say — but,' she added,
with a shiver, * is there any reason I should say
it here Any reason we should stop here
longer V

No. Please come downstairs,' I answered.
We went to the bar parlour, where she sat

down in. my uncle's chair, and looked hard at
me. She was a very pretty German girl, I
thought.

Now, about the box,' she said, ' I don't wish
to trouble you concerning it till after your
uncle's funeral. I will simply ask you to take
extra care of it, now that it is in your sole custody,
and not in the good man's upstairs, who
has held it in faithful trust for me so long. I
may tell you even there are jewels of considerable
value in it, and I am very poor. That may
interest you, perhaps — for my sake,' she added,
with a faint little smile.

To be sure,' I answered, heartily, 'and that
it does. But '

She waited for me to proceed, looking at me
anxiously.

But before his death my uncle spoke of those
jewels, and said— whether in his sober senses or
out of them, the Lord knows. Miss Keefeland —
that — that,' I stammered forth, ' he had turned
the jewels into money.'

Why should he have done that?'

As a kind of loan, perhaps,' I suggested.
His statement was not very clear, and, as there
was a ghost mixed up with it, 1 could not make
it out exactly ; but the long and the short of it

is, he has left all his money, every scrap of it, to
you.'

To me !'

'To the next-of-kin of Caspar Keefeland.
That is you, I hope?' I asked, nervously, * or
the poor old boy has made a pretty mess of
it.'

'Yes; it is I.'

That's all right. I'm glad.'

But you are his nephew — should be his heir,'
she exclaimed. ' What has he left you V

He has not thought of me in any way.'

Oh, that is wrong !'

No ; I think it is right,' I answered.

How can it be V

How can anything be V I said, in my desperate
bewilderment. ' Don't try to make out
anything just yet, Miss Keefeland, please. If
you had only come before — years and years
before !'

I was taking care of father, and he only
spoke of the box a few months ago, and just
before he died. It had passed out of his memory
completely, he said. He was a very forgetful

man ; and she added, thoughtfully, * as he had
many troubles, it was just as well.'
Yes I assented, ' I should say so.'

I should not have been surprised if the box
had been missing altogether she remarked. ' I
was prepared to hear you tell me that when I
first called here.'

< Why?' I asked, cautiously.

There was some one who knew the box was
here — my father's second wife, and a Bertha
Keefeland, too. My father had told her of it
once. He remembered that he had spoken of it
to her.'

I felt a creeping up my back now.

Your father's second wife I repeated, in a
husky whisper.

Yes. He married her a year or two after he
had come back from Deal for the last time.
Married her for a nurse, and to take care of me,
left motherless. And she was too wild and
passionate and — and — wicked. She deserted
him.'

What — what has become of her V

I don't know. She left a letter on the table

one night, stating that she could bear her life no
longer, and must go away from him and me.
She was then about the age I am,' Bertha added,
thoughtfully. * She was much too young for father.
He was very fond of her, though ; after she had
left him he made me dress like her, and wear
ornaments like her, too. It was a strange
fancy.'

Yes. I saw the story now, I thought, from
its shadowy beginning to its end. The young-wife
of Caspar Keefeland, after deserting her
husband, had come to the ' Flying Fish ' for the
sandal-wood box, had come with a lying message
from Caspar, and met her death in coming.

Uncle Nangle's confession was true, after all.
Bit by bit I sifted it out. The old man had
killed the wrong Bertha Keefeland, and year
after year it became more and more plain to me
more and more of a terrible tale of temptation
and cupidity. Let me turn away from it for
good — it will be known only to Bertha and me
until this hand is still which puts the record on
paper.

Bertha is my wife. She came into my uncle's

money, and, as she insisted upon sharing it with
me, we made up our minds just to share our
lives together as well, and so round the story
like an orange.

And the moral of this story always strikes meas
a queer one. If Uncle Nangle had not
murdered Casper Keefeland's second wife, I
should have never married Bertha Keefeland,
and been happy for the rest of my days. Bertha
says I must not put it down as murder, but
then she always looks on the bright side of
every thing.

TOO MUCH OF A DISCOVERY.

After mature deliberation, I have thought it
better to commit my statement to writing, lest
when I get into years some of the facts may
escape my memory, or people should assert that
my mind had given way, and I was only fit for
Bethlehem Hospital. Extraordinary as this bare
recital of my narrative may be, still let me
record here the plain unvarnished truth of it,
leaving the world to think what it Hies of the
matter, and having at least eased my mind of a
weighty burden. This by way of preface — byway
of confession, if you will — of SeHna Sarah
Stonehouse, of Vox Stellarumum Villa, .


1 am Selina Sarah Stonehouse, spinster. I
reside with my brother Erasmus Pascal Stonehouse,
bachelor. We have been together all
our lives, the early decease of our parents having
set us side by side together with an united
income, which may be designated as comfortable,
if limited. It is extremely doubtful if
Erasmus or I — especially Erasmus — have ever
given a thought to having apart from each other,
to forming those domestic ties which render the
separation of brother and sister a thing, as a
rule, to be desired.

Speaking particularly for Erasmus, I have no
doubt whatever that giving himself in marriage
to anyone, or having anyone given in marriage
to him, has not, up to the present period, entered
into his head. He has not had a moment's time
to think about it, and, as he is now exactly
sixty-three years of age, I believe it is probable
that he will continue to the end of his days to
regard the tender passion as a fugitive something
belonging to poetry and dream-books, and
not to active life — active life, speaking figuratively,
of course, for Erasmus has only been

once out of his own house and garden since he
was five-and-thirty, and that was to the funeral
of his old friend Mithridates Mould, who sent
his compliments to him on his dying bed, and
hoped he would make it convenient to come.

As for the tender passion as regards myself, I
am only fifty-seven now, and youth is hardly
far enough in the background to state with any
certainty what may ultimately ensue to one's
career. But as yet my heart has not fluttered
very sympathetically to the emotions, for the
sad reason that no one — with the exception of
Professor Cinders— has fluttered sympathetically
round me. Of the professor I will speak
presently, for he is a prime mover in this story,
alas ! and rests, as it were, like a shadow on my
life — the shadow of a Httle round-shouldered
man with goggle eyes, who wears slippers and
takes snuff*, and is sixty-five, if he is a day. I
speak with acrimony, and possibly I have cause,
but he is sixty-five. I have seen it in ' People of
the Day though what the editor wanted to put
him in for, and leave Erasmus out, is only to be
explained by that new theory of ' Chicken and

Champagne,' which a young man on the superior
papers has lately promulgated with much solid
airiness of style.

My brother Erasmus is scientific — intensely
scientific. He takes it from his grandfather on
the mother's side, who died scientifically. If
Erasmus had given his talents fair play, instead
of diving into the abstruse subjects, and
seldom rising to the surface again, I believe my
brother would years ago have been the talk of
all the learned societies in Europe. The wonder
of them would be a more appropriate expression.
The talk of them he may have been, for
he used to write to them twice a week in various
languages, and refute by positive proof
almost everything they said, defying them to
answer him coherently, which they seldom did,
coherently or incoherently, for the matter of
that. Such was the en^'y^ my brother created
at one period in the world of science, the reader
perceives ; but Erasmus bore up bravely, and
studied on, feeling that the spirit of research,
like virtue, was its own reward, and, encouraged
by my sympathy, he was content with it. All

the same if he were not, it may be said, but 1
simply state the fact.

Vox Stellarumum Villa was a few years ago the
resort of the numerous learned minds who were
resident in Sydenham, where my brother read a
paper once a week to all the friends and acquaintances
he could possibly persuade to come
and hear him. In these evenings he imperceptibly
influenced modern thought, like the pebble
in the water-brook, with the ripples widening
and ever widening, and so forth — a happy metaphor,
but a trifle spoiled by everybody using it.
I presume my brother Erasmus would not at
any time have been generally considered cheerful
society. To speak metaphorically again, he
did not make the welkin ring with his hilarity.
He was conversational, he was fond of reading
aloud ; but as his conversation and his readings
were all of the deepest calibre, and full of
logarithms, decimal fractions, parallaxes, and
angles of refraction and reflection, they were
beyond my finite intelligence to fathom, and I
was simply content to reverence him.

But he was not cheerful. He rose early, and
VOL. II. M

perambulated the garden in his dressing-gown
till breakfast time — walking very fast, with a
pencil and note-book in his hand, lest any idea
should dart away from him before he could get it
on his tablets. When he was on friendly terms
with Professor Cinders — who lives next door —
he used to hold long converse with him. Professor
Cinders rose early also, and perambulated
his garden in very much the same fashion as
Erasmus, and when they both came to a standstill,
to see those two learned heads, both in
skull-caps, and both resting their chins on the
top of the brick wall dividing their gardens, and
both arguing their hardest on the differential
calculus, or the volatility of comets, was to
apprehend they might eventually come to blows
in the pursuit of science. And that fear arose
in my breast chiefly on account of Erasmus,
who was excitable under opposition. Professor
Cinders was, on the contrary, heavy and phlegmatic,
but dreadfully aggravating ; and from my
chamber window — which commands a fine view
of the back garden — I have often dreaded lest
the goggle eyes of the professor should be

mercilessly ' bashed ' into his system by an impulsive,
but neighbourly, fist.

At breakfast Erasmus was accustomed to read
all the scientific papers which had arrived by
the fii-st post ; after breakfast he sat down to
contradict the major portion of the contents ; at
dinner he was exceedingly thoughtful, wondering
what he had written or what he had forgotten
to write ; in the evening Professor Cinders
would call, or some of his learned friends,
and they would retire to his study at the top of
the house, there to remain till the middle of the
night, when they would let themselves out
softly, like conspirators or burglars, for fear of
waking me or the servants out of our first sleep.

Hence, you see, my Hfe has been somewhat
dull and neutral tinted, but a change came
suddenly, and the even tenor of my maiden way
became upheaved with earthquakes. And this
is how it all occurred.

In the beginning of the winter of some three
or four years since there was to be detected a
perceptible difference in my brother Erasmus's
demeanour. From a studious and absent-minded



ed man, he became by degrees — and by very
rapid and startling degrees — a marble statue,
with scarcely the gift of speech, and with an
unpleasant habit of sitting with his mouth open.

Erasmus, for goodness' sake don't stare like
that,' I said to him, sharply, on the first occasion,
and he closed his mouth at once, and answered,
very meekly,

I'm not staring, Selina.'

He was not aware of it, but it was none the
less a dreadful falsehood. And five minutes
afterwards he was glaring so dreadfully at the
pink bow on the top of my cap that I thought it
was on fire.

Oh, dear ! Erasmus Pascal, you make me
shockingly nervous. Is anything the matter V
I exclaimed.

Yes, something is the matter,' he replied.
Good gracious ! Where?'

Something is very much the matter,' he said,
in a deep whisper, 'and it must not go any
further.'

Well, dear— what '

1 will tell you tomorrow. I am going to my

study directly. I don't Tant to be interfered
with, Selina. 1 shall not require you, or Mary,
or Jane ' — our servant-maids, I may remark here
' to come upstairs every five minutes to tell
me dinner is ready. When I want dinner, I'll
ring for it. At present all I require is perfect
repose in the establishment.'

Erasmus had been on the verge of many
remarkable discoveries during the course of his
life, but had always, at the eleventh hour, been
forestalled by some one with a similar idea, or
had his idea completely stolen from him. Sad
experience of human kind had rendered him
secretive — turned his trust and confidence, even
in me, into a fear of betrayal — and he would
tell me nothing then. When I questioned him
too closely, as time went on, he would respond,
Anon, anon,' like a character in an Elizabethan
drama, and glide out of the room backwards,
waving one hand towards me.

There came a complete change in all his
habits. He left ofi" writing to the learned societies,
their printed papers remained uncut upon
the table, unless they were papers on electricity,

Avhen he would devour them along with his ham
and eggs, and laugh silently to himself, until
something went the wrong way and nearly
choked him, which would bring him round a
little. He left off his conversazione, and sent
down apologies to his numerous friends who
called, stating that he was particularly busy
just then, and could not spare a moment of his
time. He declined to see Professor Cinders,
who was not to be turned so quickly off the
premises, and who sent word back that he
would wait till he was disengaged, Which he
would do for hours, playing five-card cribbage
with me, night after night, till I was afraid the
servants would think we were engaged. And
Professor Cinders was attentive at that period of
my career, took pity on my loneliness, discoursed
with me about Erasmus, and of the probability
of brain-softening having set in with alarming
suddenness, talked of my dull existence, and of
his lonely widower's home, with six grown-up
daughters always quarrelling and shrieking ;
talked of the comfort I was to him, and how
glad he was to get out of his own house.

Very late at night, when the supper things
had not been cleared away, Erasmus would
come creeping down and say, feebly,

Ah ! Cinders, are you here ? How d'ye do V

I'm very well, Stonehouse ; I hope you are.'

I'm famous, thank you,' my brother would
reply; ' any news?'

The professor would tell him the news, to
which he would listen for a few minutes over
his supper-plate, and then there would come
that fixed glare at my top-bow, or at the place
where the professor would have had a top-bow
had he worn one, and the lower jaw of Erasmus
would begin slowly to descend.

Once Professor Cinders, a bold and resolute
man, appealed to him in the hall, when Erasmus
was seeing him off the premises. Of course, I
could not see the professor off the premises at
my time of life — I mean at that hour of the
night.

Stonehouse,' he said, decisively, * you'll allow
an old friend to say you're killing yourself.'

Pooh, nonsense !'

You'll also allow an old friend the privilege

of saying you're making a fool of yourself,
Storehouse.'

'Pray don't mention it.'

And I may add, it's not particularly friendly
io keep us all in the dark as to, as to — what the
devil your game is.'

'You won't be in the dark much longer,'
Erasmus said, meaningly.

That's well. I'm glad of it, for one. For
upon my honour, Stonehouse, it's a very difficult
thing to know what to do with one's evenings,
when there's no club within a rational distance,
no scientific mind to commune with, nothing
but your sister, and an old cribbage-board and
four damned lucifers for pegs.'

I was not listening, but the words could not
escape me. I felt my colour rising at his meanness
— for the lucifers were his own suggestion,
as the pegs had got mislaid somewhere.

'Cinders, I am on the verge of a great discovery,'
1 heard Erasmus say, in a stage aside,
one of the greatest discoveries — decidedly the
greatest discovery of the age. Presently the
world will be considerably thunderstruck, and

its whole social fabric shaken to its centre.'

Good God — it's fireworks !' exclaimed the

professor ; * it's a new gunpowder, or something.'

No, it's nothing explosive — though,' he added,
'smith a Httle squeaking laugh, ' it will burst
up a good many pet theories. Good-night,
Cinders.'

But '

You shall know all anon,' interrupted my
brother, * not now ; and you'll excuse my standing
any longer in this draught, with three
buttons oiF my dressing-gown. Good-night,
good-night.'

Erasmus returned to the sitting-room, and
recommenced his glaring.

Selina, have you heard what Cinders and I
were telling about V he said.

Yes ; I have heard a little.'

You have been playing the eavesdropper.'

I have played at nothing this evening except
cribbage, and that I have played with Mr. Cinders
for the last time,' I said, loftily.

Has he been cheating V
'• Xo — he has not.'

He Avould cheat me out of my birthright —
my mess of — mess of — something or other — my
discovery. But till it is all worked out heres
tapping his forehead, ' and there' pointing to the
ceiling, but meaning his upstairs laboratory,
no living soul shall guess what is in store for
this present memorable century. No living,
human, breathing soul, Salinas he added,,
sharply.

Yes, dear. What is it now f

If you should hear a strange hissing noise in
the middle of the night, it will not be snakes or
the Kitchen boiler exceeding its maximum of
steam,' he said : ' it will be my biggest battery
at work."

But you are not going to study any more tonight
V

Just for half an hour, while the moon is at
the full, my dear. That's all.'

Moon at the full,' indeed, I thought with a
sigh, as he departed, returning an instant afterwards
to tell me that he expected a wagon-load
of tubes in the early morning before it was light,,
so that Cinders should not see what was coming

into the house, and catch the idea before
Erasmus was too far ahead with his invention to
be overtaken by en^-y, hatred, and universal
craving for distinction.

Poor Erasmus ! I thought. Was he really
going out of his mind, or had that mind at last
struck out some bright original discovery which
should hand him down to fame for Evermore ?
There was too much method in his madness for
Erasmus to be very mad, and I hoped for the
Evermore, and waited as patiently as I could,
and took in all kinds of mysterious hampers and
let in mysterious workmen who had been
ordered to come from London surreptitiously,
and who tramped up and down my clean
drugget, caiTpng upstairs curious-looking
wheels and rods and iron implements — some of
them red hot out of the kitchen fire — and bringing
down baskets of broken glass and bits of
fused metal, and even my brother's blue pantaloons
burnt in various portions to a tinder, as if
he had been squibbing somebody and had
materially got the worst of it. Presently there
commenced with much formality the erection of

a steam engine in the back kitchen, and a
summary invasion of the premises of innumerable
grimy beings in fustian jackets, and smelling
so strongly of grease and iron mould that
Yox Stellarumum Villa from that period more
closely resembled a factory than a gentleman's
private and suburban residence. And finally, a
whole troop of navvies and bricklayers arrived
and bricked round the hole very carefully, and
sat all of a row on the grass-plot one morning
waiting for an enormous boiler, which, after all,
was twenty-four hours behind time, the wagon
which supported it having broken into the main
drainage coming up the hill.

Erasmus, what does it all mean ? Will you
not confide in me?' I asked at length.

Anon, anon, child,' he replied, once more ;
we are getting on famously.'

We shall be ruined with the expense of all
this.'

We shall be the richest people in the world if
we sell the invention,' he replied.

Ah ! inventors always run away with a foolish
notion of that sort,' I said, acrimoniously ; * the
house is a complete wreck.'

A complete wreck, Selina?' he repeated.
'Alas, yes I'

Then we can't do any further harm by taking
down part of the staircase wall. And the flooring
will have to come up here and there for the
wires,' he said, thoughtfully.

'What wires r

We are running wires from the engine to my
study. That's a necessity, because — but you'll
tell that Genders.'

Ah I you distrust me, Erasmus.'

Yes, I do — very much,' he replied, absently,
as he walked upstairs carefully counting the
steps, or else deep in some new calculation which
my presence disturbed.

Time stole on, the dry winter dissolved slowly
in the soft arms of spring, and the big boiler was
a fact accomplished in the back-garden, and so
was the boiler-house, and there were wires allover
the establishment, and all leading into the
top room where Erasmus worked on in the cause
of science and human progress.

At last, towards Christmas time, he came down
one evening, very pale and with his grey hair

perfectly on end, sat before the fire with his
knees resting on the top bars, and said, in a
sepulchral voice,

Selina, it will be done tomorrow.'
Done ! The discovery will be done ?'
Or done for. A great success or a mighty
failure — the Lord knows which. But I think,'
he added, with a shriek, as he took his knees off
the front bars, ' that there is not a doubt of
triumph. And then — and then a monument to
Erasmus Pascal Stonehouse !'

*You — you — don't mean in a cemetery?' I
exclaimed.

Foolish, babbling trifler — no I' he said,
angrily : then he ate a very hearty supper,
thoroughly enjoyed it for once, and had seven
distinct nightmares, he told me afterwards,
before the milkman rang in the morning.

And the morrow came, and with it a big, broad-chested,
broad whiskered, bandy-legged man,
in a pilot jacket and a moleskin waistcoat and
trousers whom I hoped I had seen the last of
four weeks ago, as he was fond of beer and paid

attentions to the cook. He had assisted in the
erection of the steam-engine and boiler, and had
been altogether very busy and officious, and not
too civil either. He was a man I had particularly
disliked, and to whom I had expressed my
mind very clearly once or twice, without in anyway
disturbing his.

Selina, my dear, I think you have seen Mr.
Tomkins before,' Erasmus said to me, by way of
introduction.

Oh, yes I I have had that pleasure,' I answered,
severely.

Mr. Tomldns is our chief engineer ; he will
have entire control of the steam engine, and fora
few weeks, probably, be as one of the family
with us.'

Oh, dear I indeed,' I ejaculated.
That is the position, Selina.'

'And whatever' — I began, when Mr. Tomkins
had gone downstairs, but Erasmus interrupted
me.

Hush I not a word against Mr. Tomkins,' he
exclaimed. 'My future fame is in his hands.

An over-pressure of stean:i, an undue allowance
of cold water, and everything may be shattered
in an instant.'

Great heaven !' I exclaimed. * And the
insurance V

Every hope may be shattered — I mean every
bright dream of the fame for which I have
panted and struggled and striven. Where's
Cinders r

*I don't know where Mr. Cinders is. He has
not looked in during the last week,' I replied.

I had an idea yesterday that he was boring
a hole through the party wall on purpose to see
what I was about. There was a peculiar grinding
sound all day in the next house,' he said.

He had had the painters in, and they were
rubbing down the walls preparatory to ' flatting,'
I learned afterwards.

He would never act so shabbily,' I said.

A good fellow, Cinders, and full of humour,'
my brother remarked ; * but he would certainly
die of jealousy if I achieved my fair share of
distinction in the world.'

Genius is prone to jealousy,' I remarked.

And SO is mediocrity, Selina, and ignorance,
and everything else. But there, Tomkins has
begun,' he exclaimed, executing an insane leap
in the air in his excitement, * I must go to him
at once. The first step depends upon Tomkins.
As for Cinders, he may come to-night, and I shall
be delighted to snap my fingers in his face, in
everybody's face — in the face of the whole
world.'

He ran downstairs to the steam-engine, where
he remained till late in the afternoon, occasionally
varying the monotony by running upstairs
three steps at a time to see the effect in his
laboratory, wherein he never failed to lock himself,
lest Tomkins should follow him.

I dined alone with Mr. Tomkins that day —
Erasmus altering his mind about having any
dinner at the last moment, and sending me word
that he would take it later on. His heart was
too full, his brain too busy, and he could not
come, lie said.

I hope it's all right with the old gentleman,
ma'am,' said Mr. Tomkins, despondently, ^ but
he's in a sad way, to be sure.'

VOL. II. N

Of course it's " all right," ' I replied, though
I was in a little doubt myself.

He won't let me have anything to do with
the upstairs business,' Mr. Tomkins remarked —
nobody knows what he's doing there, he
thinks; but, Lor' bless yer, it's easy to make a
guess.'

.' Is it ?' I asked, anxiously.

You see, there's been too many hands over
this business ; and, though I must say the old
bloke '

Sir !'

'The old gentleman — I beg your pardon,
ma'am, for the remark,' he said — 'has been
blessed artful ; but there's no keeping everything
quite dark in this world! Me and my
mates have talked it over a bit, and, though we
haven't been able to make head or tail out of
what he's up to, still the general idea is he's
as mad as a March hare upon it.'

Well — but — but what is he mad upon V

A telescope, ma'am.'
A telescope !'

Yes ; that's it. It's been sticking out of

window the last half-hour. He's a-going to
begin, I'm sure.'

But what is a steam-engine and all these
wires to do with a telescope, Mr. Tomkins V

Ah ! there you gets the best of me, old lady.'

Mr. Tomkins went downstairs to his engine
again, and began carrying on a conversation
with Erasmus through a gutta-percha tube,
which leaked a great deal, for we could hear
them all over the house shouting instructions to
each other, and a most dreadful uproar they
created between them.

Presently Erasmus, in his full-dress suit,
entered the room to my profound astonishment.

Selina,' he said, very solemnly, * the time
has come at last. The great epoch in my
career has dawned, and I have dressed to do
honour to the occasion.'

'Ye — es. I see.'

'Send Mary to Professor Cinders with my
compliments,' he said, 'and will he step
round for a few minutes to inspect the great
invention ? This is an inauguration night.'

The message was despatched to our scientific

n2

neighbour, who sent word in return that he
was playing a game at chess with Herr von
Flyfischer from Stuttgart, and could not possibly
attend.

My brother despatched a second missive.
Bring Herr von Flyfischer/ was the purport
of the epistle, to which the answer was returned
that when the contest was concluded Professor
Cinders and Herr von Flyfischer would be
pleased to drop in for a few minutes.

As if the matter were of no consequence
said my brother, irritably ; * as if this night did
not herald a complete revolution of everything.'

I hope not, Erasmus.'

The greater the revolution the more I shall
be talked about he said ; * I wonder how long
they will be. I am glad Von Flyfischer is next
door; a very able man, Selina, and knows more
about the pulsation and capillary attraction of
frogs than any sarojit in Europe. What a lucky
coincidence he should be at Sydenham tonight
I'

He sat before the fire in silence for two more
minutes, and I suggested his having dinner

now. He thought he would try, but he rose in
the middle of his soup — in the middle of drinking
his soup, to be precise in this matter — and
went downstairs to see how the steam-engine
was getting on. ^yhen he rem-ned, he asked
if Cinders and Yon Flyfischer had been heard of
yet, as though they were missing in some remote
region of the earth.

Of course they have not, Erasmus. Why,
it's not ten minutes since they answered your
invitation.'

He went on with his dinner for a 
more ; then said :

What paltry beings we mortals are. It is all
jealousy, petty jealousy, Selina, of my success.'

'Is it a success?'

Xot a doubt of it,' he cried. ' It is finished
and complete ! I sit before you — and before
this cold and flabby fish — a man perfectly
successful.'

Oh, Erasmus, are you sure?'

I am quite sure. Though I have not dared
to make the last step yet.'

You haven't looked through it V I askecL

'Looked through what?' And he drew himself
up very rigidly at once.

Is it — isn't it a telescope f

Selina, you have been playing the spy upon
me,' he said, with a spasm of anguish distorting
his expressive features.

No — no — I have not,' I replied. ' It was Mr.
Tomkins who told me at dinner to-day that he
could not make head or tail out of what you
were up to, as he coarsely put it.'

Tomkins is a shai-p fellow,' said Erasmus
but no one can do me any harm now. No one is
likely to hit on my calculations, or to fasten on
the clue which has led up to a glorious crisis of
my career, Selina. I shall have a name that
will be handed down carefully and reverently
for generations and generations.'

Was he insane? An inflated idea of one's
own importance was a sure sign of insanity, I
had heard, and Erasmus was certainly * inflating '
that evening.

Selina, I will tell you everything,' he said,
leaving off his dinner to sit by my side and take
my hand in his for caution's sake, and to prevent

any exhibition of hysterical excitement on my
part. ' 1 am the inventor — the sole inventor —
of an Erasmo-Micro-Electro-Telescope.'

The announcement did not come upon me
Hke a thunder-clap, Mr. Tomkins having done
his best to bring about an anti-climax.

And what is an Erasmo-Micro-Electro-
Telescope T I inquired ; ' what will it do V

It will combine the telescope to an extent —
with the microscope to an unlimited extent ; it
will combine the telescope and the microscope,
with a boundless supply of electricity, and — and
what do you think it will do V he asked,
cautiously.

Explode, perhaps,' I suggested, ' and that is
what I have been afraid of all along!'

Selina, this is childish trifling,' he said.
Listen: it will so increase the telescopic power,
and go magnify that power when increased, that
the moon, the planets, the nebulas, the volatile
comet, and the stern fixed stars will all be close
at hand! Not twenty yards away, relatively
speaking — not twenty feet. They will be with
us!'

Good gracious I What shall we do with
them V

'We shall know all about them, and what is
in them, their composition, material formation,
the manners and customs of the inhabitants, if
any, everything will be bared before us. We ' —
he sprang to his feet, and frightened me with
his cry of exultation, ' I can wait no longer. I
will take up Tomkins first. I will try the experiment
on Tomkins. He shall immediately
follow my first glimpse into the mighty revelations
of the stars. Tomkins — ho, there !'

And away bounded my brother in search of
the engineer, who having turned on full steam,
and seen the engine fairly at work, grinding out
innumerable quantities of electric force, was
wiling away his leisure moments by chasing the
cook round the kitchen-table.

Tomkins,' I heard Erasmus say, very sternly,
this is unworthy of you. Come upstairs with
me.'

Yes, sir. Certainly.'

You have been an agent — if a low and
grovelling agent — towards my complete success,

Tomkins, and you shall be the second in the
world to marvel at the mysteries of the universe.
Science lingers by the wayside and plays chess,'
he added, very bitterly, and in allusion to
Cinders ; * let honest, horns-handed craftiness
take precedence of science. It is ready !'

*May I accompany you, Erasmus?' I inquired.


'Not yet. I am afraid,' he confessed, 'I don't
know what is to be seen ; and it may not be even
fit for a lady to see — for who can tell ? Come,
Tomkins.'

And should the professor and Von Flyfischer
arrive V I inquired.

You can show them upstairs after me. I
shall be there waiting.'

And may I come with them?'

Yes — with them then,' he said, smiling faintly
at my pertinacity. * By that time all will be
known.'

He walked slowly upstairs, followed by Tomkins,
who was less elated at the prospect dawning
before him than one might naturally have
supposed he would be. He would have 

romping with the cook, I honestly
believe.

I listened to their ascending footsteps with a
bosom palpitating with emotion ; yes, this was
the crisis, and fame might be within a hair's-breadth.
My brother thought it was.

The footsteps ascended and ascended, and
finally were heard creaking about the top landing.
I heard the door of the study unlocked,
opened and shut, and then an unnatural silence
seemed to reign over the premises. So strangely
still it all was as I Hastened nervously for the
least sound of joy, the faintest song of triumph
from my brother and his subordinate, that the
sudden and heavy knocking at the street door
which presaged the arrival of the professor and
his friend collapsed me with alarm, and brought
me into a sitting posture on the mat at the foot
of the stairs.

I recovered myself with difficulty. I tottered
to the door, waving back the servant.

I will admit them I said.

I opened the door, and Professor Cinders and
fleur von Flyfischer — a very stout little man

with enormous spectacles in tortoiseshell rims —
came into the hall, followed b}^ a long-haired
young man with a book under his arm and a felt
hat on the back of his head. This hat he removed
when he was introduced to me, and gave it
in an absent manner to the professor to hold
whilst he bowed.

Our young friend, the poet of the future,
Mr. Greenstrings,' said the professor ; * ho has
been staying with me the last week — he is
engaged to my Clara — thank God !' he added, ina
low aside.

Oh ! indeed, but '

Erasmus will be glad to see him,' he said ;
and this is my illustrious friend, Herr von Flyfischer
— who unfortunately knows not a word of
English, but will be inexpressibly delighted to
make your acquaintance.'

Herr Flyfischer blinked at me through his
spectacles and bowed profoundly, and put his
hand on his capacious chest, and paid me some
profuse compliments in German.

'And where is your dear brother?' said the
professor.

In his study. We are all to go to him at
once.'

'The end has come, then, of the great mystery,'
he remarked, a little spitefully.

The beginning of it,' I answered, enigmatically
; * will you please to go upstairs now V

We went slowly up the stairs, Herr von Flyfischer
as the honoured visitor from Berlin going
first, the poet who was engaged to Clara, second,
and the professor and myself bringing up the
rear.

We were halfway up the first flight of stairs
when a terrible scream, a prodigious howl of
anguish from above, took every particle of breath
out of our bodies, and then, with a mad, thunderous
clatter, Tomkins, with his hair on end, came
bounding down the stairs four steps at a time,
and bellowing like a bull. He saw us advancing,
a compact body of visitors, but did not stop
in any way. On the contrary, only screamed
the louder.

Let me get by — let me get out of this. Oh !
Lord preserve us all — oh I '

And then he had reached Von Flyfischer, or

had hurled his form at him, or something equally
temple, for I remembered no more, excepting
a strong German oath which sounded exactly
like English, and then life was a perfect blank
"with me, and the professor, and the poet, and
Herr von Flyfischer, all in one dreadful heap at
the bottom of the stairs, and with Tomkins on
the top of the heap, kicking and shouting furiously,
finally kicking himself free, darting out
of the front-door, and, with a wail of anguish,
tearing down the street bareheaded, and with
his arms swinging wildly to and fro, as Solomon
Eagle might have done in the days of the Great
Plague.

We gathered ourselves together slowly, Herr
von Flyfischer, T\dth the left eye of his spectacles
crashed into a star pattern, and his nose bleeding
slightly above the bridge, assisting me to
rise.

It has exploded, then V I murmured.

We will see,' said Professor Cinders. ' It is
most remarkable, certainly.' And, having recovered
from a sense of bewilderment at the
extraordinary behaviour of Tomkins, and being:

beset by the idea that something was happening
in the study, which he should miss if he
were not quick, he took to his heels up the
stairs at a pace only to be equalled by the rate
at which Tomkins had come down them. Herr
Yon Flyfischer, seeing this, set off after him at
once, and, asking the poet, who was rubbing
his knees in a corner, to be kind enough to shut
the street-door for me before he followed, I
made all the haste I could myself, lest my
brother should need protection from these rival
scientists.

And what a scene met us in that study in
which Erasmus Pascal had immured himself for
so many weeks and months ! In a corner of
the room, with a large pair of scissors in his
hands, and sitting on the floor, with his mouth
open more widely than I had ever seen it yet,
there sat Erasmus — just as if he were being
examined by an imaginary doctor for a quinsy
helpless, prostrate, breathless, with his eyes
twice their natural size, and with the same terrified
expression upon his countenance which I

had witnessed upon Tomkins's before he had
knocked me down.

And the room ? A chaotic mass of scientific
implements of all kinds was scattered everywhere,
as though my brother and Tomkins had
been throwing them at each other, or dancing
a wild jig amongst them ; whilst at the open
window stood a huge telescope on a tripod-stand,
with strange wheels and cogs arranged
at what I may scientifically term the butt-end
for the want of a better expression at the
moment — and with wires trailing from the telescope
and disappearing into Leyden jars, and
coming out of Leyden jars again, and making
for a box in the corner, and trailing once more
from the box a few inches from the floor and
disappearing down a tube, which, no doubt,
was connected with the steam-engine that had
been erected in the back kitchen.

All this I observed at a later period, sly
only thought now was for Erasmus, the picture
of a perfect idiot, cowering and gibbering, and,
to a casual observer, making frightfully offensive
grimaces at Heir von Flyfischer.

Erasmus, my dear Erasmus, what has happened?'
flinging myself beside him, throwing
my arms round his neck impulsively, and running
the points of the scissors he was holding-through
the stomacher of my best black silk ;
but being mercifully spared from injury by a
staybone. ' Tell me what has happened. I am
Selina — don't you know me V

Don't know any Sehnas,' he murmured.
What planet do you belong to V

1 am your sister — your only sister, dear.'
*No — no — impossible. No wings he said,

despondently — ' only one head too. Good
gracious, only one head, poor thing !'

He's raving mad — he's gone,' said the professor.
' Whatever is he doing with those scissors
? He'll hurt somebody presently.'

He has hurt me already,' I said, for, though
not wounded, the jar had been tremendous.

No — no — I'm not mad,' cried my brother ;
Don't think that, please. That's all nonsense.
I am only a bit confused. I shall be better in a
year or two. What's a year T

Three hundred and sixty-five days, six hours

nearly, sir,' answered the poet, like a man
responding to a conundrum.

WWs that?' asked Erasmus.

Mr. Greenstrings, my future son-in-law,' said
Cinders. ' A rising poet, Stonehouse.'

Where's his '

'Where's his what?' I asked, breathlessly, as
Erasmus seemed coming to himself slowly.

Where's his phosphorescence ? Why doesn't
he shine ? The Lord have mercy upon him,
why doesn't he shine like all the rest of
them V

*Yes, he's clean gone,' said the professor.
It's turned his brain, whatever it is. I should
send round to the station for a hansom, and take
him off to an asylum at once. I don't think
there's any time to be lost, Miss Stonehouse.'

I'm perfectly sane, thank you,' said my brother,
quite chirping. * Take the hansom yourself,
you bald-headed old egotist !'

Well, of aU — Stonehouse, do you know who
I am V said the professor.

'You're Cinders, the man who lives next door
at least, you look Hke him ; but you are mar-vol.

II. O

zealously changed, and as tailless as a guinea-completely

wrecked !' said Cinders, holding
up his hands in pity for me. ' Miss Selina, I
fear the little brains he ever had are completely
shattered.'

Let me bleed him,' said Von Flyfischer, very
promptly, to the professor ; and though he spoke
in German, I perfectly understood him when he
produced a pocket-lancet.

You shall not shed a drop of his blood !' I
shrieked forth. ' Erasmus, pray collect yourself.
What are you sitting on the floor for?'

I am sitting here in astonishment, Selina !' —
(he knew me — he was coming to himself) — ' in
perfect bewilderment, horror, and admiration !
I did not anticipate — I should not have thought
no Having, breathing being on the surface of
the earth could have possibly imagined — it's
beyond human conjecture — it's too much altogether
— sit's altogether too much — and coming
with a rush in this manner, and to be suddenly
introduced into an entirely new state of things
—it's — it's overwhelming ! That's all !' And he

shut his eyes, as if the mental prospects were
too ranch for him now.

What can it be ?' ejaculated the professor.
Is it possible that this is a plagiarism, Stone -
house V he asked sternly of my brother.

My own invention, entirely,' gasped forth
Erasmus, feebly.

Two years ago I lectured on the sidereal
system in this very room to a select but learned
audience ; we had models of the system in active
revolution — Dutch cheeses coated with luminous
paint, and all going at once : we '

It's my own discovery,' murmured Erasmus ;
I have brought the stars to earth ; I have been
in the interior of Jupiter ; and — oh ! you can

never imagine anything so Will anybody

oblige me ^vith a glass of water?'

Some one — the poet it was, I think, who
came in so handily on this occasion — ran down-stars
and got the water-bottle off the sideboard
in the dining-room.

What is that ?' asked the professor, pointing
to the telescope.

It's my Erasmo-Micro-Electro-Telescope.



It's perfect — it's too perfect. I'll never undertake
the responsibility of upsetting the whole
world — I can't — I won't !'

Whatever can it be that '

The professor walked towards the telescope
on tiptoe ; he was stooping to peer through the
eyeglass, when Erasmus curdled the blood in
all our bodies again by the wildest of screams.

Don't, Cinders, don't ! Your brain is not
strong enough. We shall aU be in asylums if
this continues. Cinders, pray dont /'

Professor Cinders bestowed on poor Erasmus
a look of utter scorn.

You have asked me here as a guest,' he said,
coldly but cuttingly ; * you have asked my
learned friend, Von Flyfischer : I have taken
the liberty of bringing a young gentleman of
high ability, who is engaged to my eldest
daughter, Clara, and we cannot be made the
dupes of deception, or the victims on your part
of a practical joke.'

I never made a joke in my life,' said Erasmus,
who was too weak to argue or resent
reproach.

And,' continued the professor, for whom I
shall never entertain again one atom's worth of
respect, * if your brains have stood the test of
this marvellous discovery, I flatter myself that
I shall be able to survive.'

He advanced again, and Erasmus passed the
scissors to me.

Save him,' he murmured, in a husky whisper.
' It must be done. Sever the connection

I dare not attack him, Erasmus. I '

Cut that wire ; that's all. Cut it, cut it I'
I understood now; and as the professor turned
the broadest portion of his frame towards us,
and stooped slowly and a little nervously towards
the marvellous proof of Erasmus's great
genius, I snipped in half the copper wire at my
side in solemn silence, and Erasmus laid his
head upon my shoulder, and, with a long quivering
sigh of relief, went off like a babe into a
most refreshing slumber.

Meanwhile, the professor had applied his left
eye to the telescope, then his right e^^e, had
drawn forth his pocket-handkerchief, breathed
on the glass, and polished it, had stooped again

and tried his left eye and his right once more,
had finally stood up and faced ns with an
expression absolutely withering.

'I can't see a single thing. Not a single
thing is to be seen,' he affirmed. * This is the
freak of a lunatic'

We — we had better run round for the hansom,'
murmured the poet.

Hush !' I exclaimed, ' not so much noise
now ; he sleeps.'

*Let him sleep, and be blowed,' cried the
professor, devoid, in his impotent rage, of the
commonest decencies of civilised life ; ' if he
has taken to play the fool and the mountebank,
this is the last time he will play it on me, or on
any friend of mine. Come, Yon Flyfischer,
come, Greenstrings ; it's no use your trying to
see anything through that thing ' — they had
taken it in turns now to inspect, — ' it's a dummy,
or he has bunged up the other end. He was
anxious to make fools of us, and he has made
fools of us, and I wish him joy of his success.'

Then away marched the professor, and the
professor's friend, and the professor's future son-in-law,

and I was left in a corner of the laboratory,
with my brother's head pillowed on my
heaving chest, where it remained till I thought
that I should die of cramp.

He came to himself in the middle of the night
he was aroused by the boiler exploding in
the back garden, I may observe, for the steam-engine,
which had been going on madly by
itself downstairs, had been utterly forgotten —
opened his eyes and surveyed me very sadly.

*Selina Stonehouse,' he said, *they have all
gone, then.'

Yes, they have all gone.'

You have saved them, but none the less it
was a marvellous discovery.'

He rose, and I rose with him, every bone
aching most dreadfully.

I think I should like some supper now,' he
said. *I cannot understand why I am so
frightfully hungry.'

Thank Heaven, you are your noble self
again,' I ejaculated.

I always was,' he answered back; *but the
invention was too much for me — too much for

anybody. The responsibility is not with me to
alter every human aspiration and upset every
science. Let it perish. Here goes !'

And in one moment he had tilted the big
telescope out of the window, whence it went
crashing through the glass roof of the conservatory
— once again and for the last time bringing
Professor Cinders upon the scene, who
leaned half out of his own back window with
his night-cap on.

What the devil is it now V he cried ; ' has he
thrown himself out ? Has he committed suicide V

No, it's only the telescope.'

Oh, that's a pity.'

And then the window was slammed down.

That is my story. Erasmus Pascal Stonehouse
invented nothing more. I do not think
he has been the same man since, and certainly
he is a little more absent, and studies not at all.
Sometimes he sighs, as though he regrets the
sacrifice of his great invention ; but he always
maintains it was too much of a discovery. And
I believe him.

Tomkins, the engineer, never ceased running,
I have heard, till he reached Liverpool, where
he took steamer for New York, and has not
been heard of since. He left a wife and seven
children to the care of Camberwell parish, which
is still advertising for his whereabouts, and will
be extremely obliged to any lady or gentleman
who can favour it with any authentic particulars
respecting him.

ANOTHER MAN'S WIFE.

Ten years ago I ran away with Strafford's wife.
That is the plainest way of putting it. I set it
down here just as if I were not writing of myself,
just as if, God help me, it was not possible
1 could have been at any time of my career so
weak, so desperate, and so despicable a villain.
So leak — because the woman was pretty and
romantic, and thought she loved me until it was
too late to love anybody else. So desperate —
because mine was a name looked up to ; I was
one in whom people believed, and I was clever
enough in my way to have made my mark, to
be talked of, to be flattered. What I was does
not matter to the purport of this confession —

what I came to does, and in its proper place
will be related here. So despicable — because the
woman's husband was a good man, and I hardened
him to stone ; a happy, trustful man, and
I wrecked his happiness and trust ; a father, and
I took away the mother of his children.

That is why I said just now, God help me. I
have said of late days, God forgive me, too ;
only of late days this is, and for a reason to be
presently explained, and I say it with all the
heart and soul and strength left in me.

I could preach of 'extenuating circumstances '
if I were sure of a sympathetic audience, but I
should shriek at my own excuses afterwards,
shriek with a mocking horror, as the fiends
shriek. I was a sentimentalist and a fool ; if I
have one excuse that is worth recording it is
that I loved the woman — that I believed her
life would be brighter with me than with him,
and that I resolved all my life to try to make it
so. There was no thought of a fleeting passion,
of a setting her aside, of a lower depth for her, of
the old story of the streets ; it was the sacrifice
of my life and honour to her life and shame, and

in its early days it was set down to romance, to
the * affinities,' to a something which two misguided
souls, proceeding rashly their own way,
could afford to call their fate.

All a delusion, all very common-place, and
miserable, and cruel, and, my God ! the waking
to the fact that it was so I — the stern truth that
name and fame, and good men's thoughts of us,
had wholly passed from our sphere, and we were,
even in our own hearts, accursed things.

If I could have been — if she could have been
as callous as are some folk ; if we could have
forgotten the past wherein people thought so
well of us, if the present could have been everything
without a thought of what had been, or
of what might come to us, of the horror and the
disgrace to grow upon us when the glamour of
the sin had vanished, and we were simply everyday
sinners, without a single excuse I To me
the life has been ever unbearable, and yet I have
borne it. To her it has been a reproach which
she has been unable to hide from me, a sting
which has struck into her heart and poisoned its
life current, and turned her brain at times. And

we each disguised from the other for a while
what a mockery om' Hves together were, what
an ordeal of mental anguish, what a damnable
and awful failure.

If she had been heartless, if she could have
become so by degrees ; if the days, and months,
and years passing by with us could have rendered
us as callous as sin can make people, we
could have borije life with a greater patience,
and almost with a light heart. But this is not
the story of our lives together, or why I let the
daylight in upon it now.

There was no romance left between us ; we
had chosen our lot, but we despised it. We
were verily ashamed, but there was no return to
goodness. The great gates were shut, and we
did not pray for them to open, and let us back
to our old Hves, our old homes, our old self-respect,
and the loves of those whom we still
loved and dared not say a word concerning.
We were silent tortures to ourselves.

We had sacrificed our lives, but there was no
confidence in the new estate ; on the contrary,
there was complete restraint. The curse of a

strong imagination was always upon us, and
made us worse. We did not believe in each
other ; we wondered at each other's thoughts,
and what regrets, repining, remorse, were commingled
with them. Sometimes I found her
in tears, in an utter prostration of grief, and
she would not tell me why she wept, and why
it was beyond my power to console her. I have
been always left to wonder what it was that
would suddenly crush and abase her, and yet
to know that it was Strafford she was thinking
of, and of Trafiford's children — not hers, for she
had abandoned them ! — who rose up like accusing
angels, and looked towards her, and
even talked of her as ' dear mamma who was
dead,' and whom she could never take again
to her heart.

And I? I had repented long ago. My life
was one curse of helplessness. There was a
vague sense of duty to this victim, a feeling
that I must atone for wrecking her life, by
trying to make it endurable to her, and the
awful consciousness that I was not succeeding,
that I could not render it anything but one

VOL. II. P

profitless series of reproaches, which were not
spoken to me, but which every action and every
look betrayed.

I could have reproached her, had I had the
cruel courage to do so, but in all our life together
I did not say a word. I could have told
her of her own folly, of her great and little
vanities, her recklessness, her resentments, her
futile reasonings with the clear-headed, strong-hearted
surgeon who had married her five years
ago, and would have had her as good and staid
and homelike as were other wives about his
sphere. 1 could have scoffed at her desire for
absolute admiration and power, her foolish resistance
to control, the self-will which at last
cast her into my arms and away from the better
man's. I knew her character — 1 could read it
like a book. I could influence it for good or
harm, and I sank my own identity to make her
career with me the record of her own self-satisfaction.
It was her own way absolutely
her own life, not mine — but no roses ever
strewed the path along which we went together,
only the dust and ashes which grew deeper and

thicker with every step we took away flora
right.

Ten years afterwards it might have been
thought that we had settled down, but we
never had. She was thirty-five years of age
then, and as pretty and graceful a woman as
she had ever been ; the only change in her was
in the depth of grave, strange thought which,
in repose, her features always showed. That
long look ahead was very sad to watch, and
one need not wonder of what she was thinking,
or of the figures in the distance that flitted
before her yearning gaze. And she did not
know herself how long she would look thus,
or how completely she had drifted from the
life about her, and from the home that had
never seemed to be hers. On the contrary,
she would reproach me with my long brooding
fits, my forgetfulness of lw and there would
come the terrible fear that lull come to women
like her, that I had grown weary of it all, and
would be quit of it soon, without much thought
for her. There where times when she would
tell me this as the deep conviction which she

p2

had, and I had to deny its truth to keep her
sane, knowing in my heart how true it was,
and that the life was one which I continually
deplored. And yet there had never come tome
a resolution to escape it — mine had been
a career deliberately adopted, and it must goon
to the end. It could not be altered without
my being to the world a greater villain than
I was already. I had repented, but no man or
woman would have believed in such a repentance
as mine; 'he has thrown her off,' would
have been the outcry against me. I had acted
like a hound from the beginning to the end, and
it was like me. What else could have been
expected ? Poor woman !

AVe had lost sight of Strafford all these ten
years. We had tried to forget him ; we had
been abroad, moving from place to place ; we
had left him to his London practice in a western
suburb of London, so far as we knew, and
he had not endeavour-ed in any way to find us
out. He had let us go from his sight. He had
not sought to obtain a divorce, for he had not
thought of taking to himself a second wife, and

he was content with the two children — one boy,
one gh'l — which she had left with him. We
did not even know that he had become famous
in those ten wasted years of ours, and that men
spoke of him with admiration and with gratitude,
the gift of healing being a God's gift
With him which had worked great ends. There
were stories of his goodness as well of his
eccentricity, but we had not heard of them then ;
of his generosity, of his bad temper, of his
power, of his pride, as there are stories, false and
strange, of all men who nse above the level of
their fellows. It was not till we were back again
in London, tired out with many cities, that I
came across his name in the newspapers, found
that it was not easy to escape the name which
cropped up in every important case connected
with the court or the nobility. People sick unto
death seemed to cry aloud for Sir Edward
Trafiford ; he had been plain Ned Trafiford when
I stole his wife away, a man of strong opinions
and firm will, but one who I had never thought
would rise to honours such as he had gained.
I tried at first to keep the newspapers from

her, bnt she was fond of news. The theatrical
world interested her, the concert world, the
world of art and hteratm-e, and she would have
guessed my motive had I made any marked
effort to conceal news from her. She must
have seen his name very frequently at last, but
she never alluded to it ; in London she grew
more restless and excited, and was even strange
at times and gave me gi-eat concern, as for a
new trouble that might be advancing. We
were out a great deal ; the theatre and concert-room
were our distractions ; we were not fond
of home, we were strangely glad to escape it.
It was not pleasant to sit facing each other for
long hours, and to be uncei-tain what thoughts
were troubling us — even if one might not despise
the other in that heart of hearts which was
under lock and key. We had no society ; we
were to have been 'all in all,' and we still
shrank from those friends we might have had,
or the few honest, trusting folk who would have
believed in 'the respectability' about our
darkened world, and called us friends of theirs.
We were above deceiving them ; we accepted

our position and lived very staidly ; we would
have no new friends, and we had set ourselves
apart from all the old.

Now and then, strange accidents occurred
and unlooked-for meetings. The world is full
of them, and we could not escape them. Ten
years had not swept us out of those tenable
memories for faces and incidents which some
people have. I need not speak of them more ;
they were part of our trials which there was no
eluding, they were part of our contract.

It had often occmTcd to me that I should
have been glad to meet a man like myself, of
my thoughts and character, some one who had
done as I had done, and to whom I could talk
and reason — and, if it were so, confess. What a
hundred questions I could have asked Mm ! —
whether his life's sin had been worth an hour
of his better life ? whether he had lived down
remorse, or if remorse had made his life a hell ?
And when such a man by chance confronted me,
some one whom I knew by evil repute to be a
man like me — as bad as I was ! — strange feeling
that it was, I could shrink from him as

from one lost beyond redemption, and whose
career had been a scandal and a gross alii-ont
to me ! I Alas a sentimental, I have said
abbacy. The reader of these lines will not understand
me "without knowing of my weakness.
I could not make the best of my position ; it was

beyond mes

I was thirty-seven years of age and a i-ich

man comparatively, when I came back to London
^yit\l her. I was in the prime of life, when
life should have been at its best, and yet 1
could envy the workman with his child strolling
in the public park through which I dashed on
horseback. I would have changed places with
him had the chance been offered me and at the
price of my forgetfulness. If I could have only
forgotten ! If I could have hardened like steel,
and been like other men ! If she had been
happy, very happy, say moderately happy, and
kept me from thinking desperately — if in her own
strange sadness there was not ever a lost soul's
whisper to me — ' This is yom work ! without
you I should have been an honest woman at
peace with God, at peace with myself!'

One thing I had been spared hitherto in this
miserable association — the curse which comes to
most men who have acted after my fashion —
jealousy. In no instance doing those ten years
had she raised my mistrust ; in no instance had
I seen in her that instinct to attract, to encourage,
to flatter other men, which is part of a weak
woman's character, and which had led her from
her husband's side to mine. The first fault had
been the great fault, and she was faithful to me
terribly faithful I Shall I own that there were
times when I regretted this — ^Avhen it crossed
my mind that there might have been an excuse
to close the sin of it, with a blacker sin for her ;
that it would be even a natural sequel to a
commonplace history, and so an end to it, and a
retracing of my weary steps along the way I had
come ?

When we were in London again the jealousy
came at last, and I was amazed at the strength
and passion of it — at its bewildering effects upon
me. She became more eccentric in her manner,
a woman with a mystery, a woman who would
not explain. There were days when I returned

home to find she had deserted it, and soon the
various excuses offered for her absence aroused
mj suspicions and did not appear to be the
truth. Which they were not. Which presently
I proved to be Hes, but such les as disarmed
my jealousy and filled me with a new despair.

She had discovered her children. She had
found out her husband's residence in a Avert-end
square, and she had planned and plotted to see
them, even to speak to them with all the earnestness
and passion of a woman at bay.

'Why did you not tell me?' I asked, when
the secret came out at last, * why hide it all from
me?'

You would have been angry.'
'No.'

And I could not keep away. For the soul of
me, Ernest, I could not keep away. I wanted
to see them, oh, so badly.'

It can do no good.'

I know that.'

It may do a deal of harm.'

It may,' she assented.

You have not told them who you are ?'

Oh, no, God forbid that ! I have only asked
them a direction in the street, just to hear the
sound of their voices, just to look at them a little
closer and be sure that they are my own boy
and girl. Don't you understand me ?' she screamed,
' won't you understand mew

Yes, yes, I understand,' was my reply ; ' but
this will drive you mad.'

at may.'

It is too late in the day for this exaggerated
sentiment,' I added, even harshly; 'had you
loved yom children more, you would not have
gone away from them.'

That's true,' she answered, gloomily ; * I own
it. I was selfish. I did not think of them at
first. I thought only of you then. I '

Oh, Eva, forgive me. I did not mean to cast
that dart at you.'

It is all true,' she said ; ' I did not think of
them a great deal, and I — I Ime they would
be happy with their father, and well cared for
and loved. He was always very fond of children,.
a just, good, hard man,' she added, thoughtfully,,
and very fond of children, very.'

You see, all this has brought fresh misery to
you ; rendered you wholly unhappy and restless.
What is the use of it V I asked.

I don't know,' was the helpless answer, and
she wrung her hands together for an instant ; ' I
am not trying to see the use of it, the good of it.
How should I know what is good? I don't
even understand why it should come to me after
all these years to find them out, to yearn for one
look of their bright young faces, as one Hke me
might yearn to look at heaven just for once —
but it has come, and they are my boy and gil.
Whatever I am — whatever I have been — they
are mine. Don't you see that ? Don't you see
I can't help all this 1 I can't ! I can't !'

Her grief, her self-abandonment was so great
that I could only attempt to soothe it, implore
her to be calm, to be reasonable, to forget my
harshness, to exercise some soi-t of self-restraint,
and then the calm followed — that dread calm
which was very like despair.

I did not set an interdict on her movements ;
I did not inqime again where she had been ; I
had to let things take their course and remain in

ignorance as to which way they were tending.
I seemed to expect a catastrophe — to hoe waiting
for it — to be wondering how long it would be.
And yet I was not wholly passive, I was making
arrangements to go abroad again, to be quit of
England, this time, for ever.

Ashen the time came to tell her, she shook her
head sadly.

'I cannot go,' she answered.

I have made all preparations.*

'Yon will I'll me, if you take me from
England any more,' she said ; ' but, if you insist,
I must die.'

I did not answer. I resolved to speak of it
again to-moiTOw, when she was less excitable,
when she had grown more accustomed to the
news. I had sm-piised and shocked her. I was
not a wise man. I did nothing that was
right.

And, on the moiTOw, the catastrophe for which
I had waited had come, and there was no talking
or reasoning with her again. It had come
to myself — to me who was unprepared for it,
who had not looked for it in my own direction,

had not dreamed the hand of fate could strike so
heavily.

My horse had taken fright, and I had been
thrown. It was a terrible accident, and they
picked me up, as they thought, for dead. I was
carried to the nearest hospital, in one of the
wards of which I found myself days afterwards,
lying like a child, speechless, nerveless, with not
even the strength to turn my head. Strange
faces came and looked at me for an instant and
then vanished in a mist that grew about them ;
voices very far away sounded meaninglessly in
my ears, where there was always the rushing of
a sea and the breaking of its waves in thunderous
booms upon the beach. 1 must be at sea,
I mused, when the first thought came back tome.


There was no power to move, I was like a
man chained down. At that time I did not
know what had happened, whether I was not ina
dream or trance; everything about and around
me belonged so completely to the unknown, and
it was so full of clouds, into which I was always
vanishing, sometimes very slowly, at other times

with a celerity that was Hke being hurled into
an unknown depth and then forgotten.

A woman's face, looking intently into nine,
was the first thing I recollected as paint of waking
life. A strange, kind face, and yet I whispered
Eva,' wonderingly, as at a change in her, for
which I was unprepared, and yet I was not
wholly surprised.

Ah I I am not Eva,' said my nurse, smiling.

*Then '

Hush. You must not talk any more. You
must wait.'

I remembered that injunction, and obeyed her.
I read the meaning in her clear, bright face, and
said no more. The doctors came and looked at
me, and I would have spoken to one of them,
but he shook his head, and lightly touched his
hips with his fingers before he turned to those
about him.

'He's conscious,' one said.

'Marvellous I' ejaculated a little man, with dark
spectacles.

Will he pull through ? Is it possible V asked
another.

Hardly.'

Then they passed on down the ward, and I
lay and thought they were talking of somebody
else, and faintly wondered where they had
come from, and why they all had looked at me,
till I floated away once more into forgetfulness.

By-and-by — a day afterwards, I was told it
was — I became more conscious of surrounding
objects, animate and inanimate ; I knew that I
was an inmate of one of the wards of a large
London hospital, and that bandages were on my
head, that my limbs were in splints, and I was
powerless.

What has happened?' I asked.

The nurse told me in soft whispers and with
her cautious eyes upon me all the while. My
horse had taken fi-might and I had been thrown.
I had been brought to that hospital, and it was
thought I could not recover; it was beyond
human skill to save me, it was thought, but I
was still alive, and it was hoped that now I was
likely to live, with a little extra care and special
nursing.

Thank Heaven !' 1 answered.

Life had not appeared to be of much vahie tome
before my accident ; I had contemplated the
easiest means of quitting it once or twice ; but,
strangely, it was of gi-eat value to me now.

You have Sir Edward Strafford to thank for
your life,' said the nm-se.

'Sir Edward Strafford?'

No one else could have succeeded with the
operation.'

It was a complicated case of trepanning
that had been the most dilBScult paint of the
matter, one that Sir Edward had carried out
on a new principle which was to still further
enhance his fame in the world. I was amazed,
discomfited, cast down. The nurse saw the
change in me, and called out for further
assistance. I remembered nothing more that
day.

My return to consciousness, to the state of a
reflective being, was marked by what they
thought was a stem reserve, an odd manner
altogether. I might be going mad — it was one
of the results which they feared — and they were
very observant. There seemed some one al-vol.

II. Q

ways flitting near me, watching me ; I had
hardly the time to think for myself, to wonder
what was to be done and said after all this.

I was getting stronger of speech: 1 could
think ; and I Alas gTOT^-ing beset by two tenable
fears: what had become of Eva? when would
Sir Edward Strafford come and look down upon
me l}^g there as the other doctors looked ?

'Has he been here?' I asked.

'Sh Edward?'

'Yes.'

He came every day for the first week. You
were his case — you are his case,' said the nurse.

Will he come again V

Yes, to be sm-e. He is away just now, but
you are in good hands. You must not won
about that. You are getting better. Sir Edward
will be back in a few days.'

She tallied very rapidly, and I could not interrupt
her. '\\Tien she had done, I said aloud
and it seemed impossible to help saying, —

I do not wish to see him.'

The nurse looked surprised.

Am I compelled?' I asked.

I don't see how you can help it,' she said,
regarding me with new interest ; ' you are Sir
Edward's case, I have told you

Yes.'

After a pause, she said,

Why don't you ^\dsh to see him V

I was silent. I saw that I had acted wrongly
if I wished to keep my secret. I replied to
her at last,

I don't know — I can't tell.'

'I should think not,' she said, brusquely, as
the walked away.

Late in the day one of the surgeons came tome,
tallied to me, congratulated me on my
better state.

'Am I out of danger?' I asked, anxiously.

'Well, not absolutely out of danger. You
must be careful, of course.'

Could I not leave here — be caned home —
at any cost. Money is no object to me, and
I would be so glad to get away !' I urged.

It is quite impossible.'

To-morrow, or the next day?'

Not for many days. You must be resigned

q2

to this, my good fellow. There is no jumping
back to yom old self at a bound.'

He laid his hand kindly on my shoulder and
said,

You must be thankful for coming back to
the world at all. You must be patient — it is
your one chance.*

I cannot be patient here.'

You must try, Mr. Edwin.'

I flinched at the mention of my name. I
felt like a man stabbed, like a man betrayed.
I had hoped they did not know meat
this hospital ; that I was one of many, and
unrecognised : that there had been no clue to
my identity. I knead now that my card-case
had not been in my pocket; that I had no
letters with my address upon them, and I fancied
it had been no one's particular business to
trace and track me out. My linen was only
marked with my initials, and I had hugged
myself with the conviction that I was not
known, and that by care and a sacrifice of
my feelings I might pass unknown from the
hospital.

From the moment of the mention of Strafford's
name, I had resolved to be as silent as the gi-ave
to ask no question as to Eva — to send no
message to her — to leave her even in the agony
of doubt as to what had become of me. Better
that, better anything, than that I should be
known as Ernest Elwin, the man who, ten years
ago, ran away with Trafiford's wife.

Sir Edward Traitor had not recognised
me, I was certain — the poor, crushed wretch,
bleeding and dust-begrimed, was, in the
confusion of the accident, not likely to be
known ; and ten years had made enough
change in me, without calamity. And yet
this man called me Elwin, as if he knew me
very well.

Why do you say Elwin V I asked.

I don't know,' said the surgeon, carelessly ;
"* it is Elwin, is it not?'

He was short-sighted, and he walked to the
head of the bed, peered closely at a large card
affixed there which stated the nature of my case,
my diet, and my treatment, and all particulars
for the information of the surgeons and students

going to and fro : and my name and number
were there also, it was evident.

You're down here as Ehvin — Ernest ElA\'in.
Is it wa-long, then V he asked.

I did not answer : 1 could have shouted
'Yes!' in my rage and distress, but it would
have been a fooHsh he. Some one had recognised
me, or something had betrayed me, and
my long silence had been all in vain. I had not
spoken of my home, and no one had cared to
ask me concerning it ; if there had been anybody
whose anxiety I could allay, they thought
probably I should have been the first to mention
it, of course. But I had been very silent, very
grim. It had seemed to me better that Eva
should remain in suspense awhile, than that she
should come here and possibly meet Mm. The
great sui-prise was over by this time, and it was
only a short time longer. Had she known I
should not have been allowed to see her yet
awhile, she would have called persistently and
been discovered. All this, I had had the
strength to plan out, to feel the misery of it all,

and yet to feel sui-e it Alas the best. And after
all there was my name at the head of the bed,
and the secret 1 had kept so close exposed to
those who cared to read.

'Is it wrong V the surgeon asked again.

It is quite right,' I replied at last. ' Bnt who
put my name up there V

'1 don't know.'

Later in the day I asked the nurse, and she
could not inform me either. It had been a
matter of form — done by one of the students,
she supposed — she could not say.

Strange !' I muttered, doubtfully.

I don't recognise the handwriting either,'
she said, looking at the card in her tm-n, ' it's
not the usual waiting. Does it matter V

'No.'

But I lay and tried to puzzle out the meaning
till I grew very fault and went back a step or
two towards a relapse. When I was well
enough to speak again next day, I asked that
a message might be sent to my home explaining
to Eva where I was, and saying that she

must not come to see me : that I must not see
anyone yet — it was Sh' Edward Strafford's instructions.


Say Sii- Edward Strafford's,' I pleaded, ' and
ask her to write to me instead, and assure me
she's well.'

In due course the answer came. There were
only a few words, and I had thought she might
have sent me a longer letter.

I have been abbacy told of your accident,
and have promised for your sake to keep away,'
she wrote. ' I am tembly bewildered. I pray
every night — I, who have not prayed for years —
for your recovery. I am ill.

Eva.'

She had knoT\'n all, then ; but who was therein
the hospital to inform her of my accident ?
Her address was not on the books, and there was
no one to whom my accident was of any extra
interest, save from a scientific or surgical point
of view Unless — and 1 tried to think if it
were possible — Sir Edward Strafford had done

all tins himself, had recognised me, found out
my address, and written to her who had been
once his wife. Surely impossible !

The probable return of the gTcat surgeon to
tovni filled me ^^-ith dismay, and retarded my
progress to recovery. AVhat would he say
when he saw my name at the head of the bed ?
What would he think ? What would he do ?

I owed my life to the man whose home I had
shadowed, whose name I had dishonoured, and
my life was valueless in his eyes and my own.
If I could escape before his return ; if I could
only get away before he looked down upon me
with his great, inquiring, dark eyes I I seemed
suddenly to remember his eyes, and how they
glistened through the glasses which he had
always worn. I grew afraid of them. If I
could only steal away I If I could escape
him !

Then came the relapse in earnest, born of all
this mental struggle of which 1 could not, dared
not speak, and all was chaos to me, from which
I emerged at last, weaker than I had ever been.
I had come back from delirium — there had been

another operation necessary; I had been carried
to the Theatre, and back to my bed,
without my Knowledge ; there had been a cold,
critical discourse upon my case to the students
who had thronged the operating room to gather
knowledge from my suffering, from the hips
of the great surgeon who so seldom addressed
them now and only in important cases like my
own.

In the twilight, before there were lights burning
in the wards, one day when I was stronger,
1 woke from my sleep to find him sitting at my
bedside. The nurse was near him talking in a
low voice, and he was listening attentively.
My heart seemed to stop still when I was sure it
was he.

I was right. I knew him by his eyes. In
all else he was a changed man. He was nine
years Eva's senior, but I had not thought to see
him with hair as white as snow, and with a
hundred fine deep lines about his face. It was
a very stern face, with the thin lips compressed,
as I had always known them ; but it was handsome
still, for all its gravity and oldness of expression.

A face of intense poAver, a clever
man's face, from which a poor, weak sinner Hke
myself seemed to cower and try to hide away,
lest its very looks should blast him.

This is Sir Edward,' said the nurse.

I know,' I mnrmm-ed, hoarsely.

'Leave ns,' followed the diy, hard tones of
the surgeon, and Ts^th a ' Certainly, Sir Edward,'
the nm'se departed.

Then there was a silence. He looked steadily
at me, as I had thought he would look, and I
looked away from lum down the ward, and along
the row of sufferers there.

Elwin !' he said at last, and 1 glanced wistfully
towards him. I tried to speak, but could
not.

You have had two hard fights for your life,'
he said, calmly, and without a quaver of his
voice, ' but you are spared, I am glad to say.'

'Glad?' I murmured.

'Yes — very glad.'

I could not reply. Strange hot tears came
to my eyes, whose founts had been sealed for
years.

We are always glad when we succeed in a
difficult case, and yours has been the most
critical that I have ever known,' he continued,
in a hard, metallic way, that brought me slowly
to myself. ' It is a triumph of surgery to restore
you to the world.'

To restore me to his wife ! Did he thinly of
that in the midst of his success, I wondered?
Or was that a matter which did not concern him
in the least now, which was not any part of his
thoughts ? Yes, he was a hard man ; she had
always called him hard and unsympathetic ; it
had been his profession fii-st, and his wife second,
and his life had resented the preference, fretted,
complained, and fled.

He will never miss me,' she had said, ' he will
be happier without me.'

Perhaps he had been. Who could tell, looking
into that inflexible face, whether he had
suffered or not ? I was not sure, even, whether
he knew me ; he spoke so calmly, and regarded
me as a patient in whom, on account of the complications
of the case, he was more than ordinarily
interested. And for no other reason ?

Do you know who I am ?' I asked at last,
fretful and impatient.

'You must keep cool, sir,' he said politely,
but firmly ; ' excitement is all we have to fear in
you.'

'You do not answer my question. Sir
Edward.'

'Why do you ask r

I cannot say — I cannot explain,' I replied.
But I would be very glad to know.'

Will it ease you* mind to know V

I think it vrilV

Yes. I knew you directly you were brought
into the hospital. I never forget a face,' he said,
quietly.

Why did you not kill me when I was so completely
in yom power?' I bm'st forth. 'I
deserved it — I '

He laid his hand upon my arm, and rose from
the bedside.

There, there, that will do,' he said. ' You
must recollect a surgeon's pride, his fame, rests
on the saving of his patient, not the killing of
him.'

'Ah! well, you may kill me presently in a
fairer way,' I said. ' I am at your orders,
always.'

'Thank you,' he said, drily, 'I know that.
And now try to sleep. And a good-night to you,
for it is what you need most.'

He walked down the ward somewhat feebly,
I thought, for his four-and-forty years, and the
nurses rose and curtsied to him as he passed,
and the patients watched him with their big,
wondering eyes, a giant amongst men, and
as he stopped at the far end of the room, before
one who was also his especial care, the
students pressed closely round him, and hung
upon his words.

A good man, is he not, nm'se V I said to the
attendant who had approached my side again.

'I don't know. He is a great man, at all
events.'

'Yes.'

It is an honour to us for him to come now,'
she said, ' an honour to you that he should have
been so deeply interested in you. Everybody
lias thought him particularly interested. But

then it's a inii-acle that you're alive, ^vith a skull
all smashed into the brain as yours has been.
Why,' she added, cheerfully, in order to raise a
smile in me, ' you've no business to be alive at
all. It's against the record.'

No. I have no business to be alive,' I murmured.
' That is it.'

Ah ! well, go to sleep,' she said, soothingly,
you'll be more cheerful in the morning.'

Cheerful! In the morning I waited very
anxiously for him. I longed to see him ; I had
thought of many things which I should like to
say, and I wished to find the courage, the
strength, to say them, and to thank him for all
his consideration for me. But he came not that
day, nor the next. He was keeping out of my
way now ; perhaps he thought his presence disturbed
me, and led to an excitement that was
injurious ; or, ha^dng set me on the road to convalescence,
there was gone all interest in the
matter, and he left me to men whose time was
not so precious as his own.

I had got well enough to see visitors at last,
but I had begged Eva not to come yet — not to

come at all. And it was for her husband's sake,
rather than for hers. I would have spared him.
I was beset by a strange, unknown fear of
those two meeting, and possibly at my bedside.
It was too horrible to contemplate.

She did not come. She took me at my word
and left me to myself. And I was greatly
relieved. The fear of seeing her was awfully
strong upon me — the woman who had shared
my life, who had sacrificed her life for me, and
to whom I had surrendered my ambitions, my
friends, my honourable career — the woman who
was my whole life, I did not wish to see. I
was afraid of any grief or excitement which she
might betray — I was more afraid of her indifference
— still more of the thoughts she might have
of her husband, and her wish to beg for his forgiveness,
and to tell him how bitterly she had
repented of the wrong that she had done him.

She did not answer my note, and I was glad
of that. There was always in her letters,
amidst the kindliness of her nature, the ring of
the natural discontent at what she was, the
wail sometimes over what she might have been,

disguise it as she might by obscure words and
phrases. I had been always in di-eat, in the
few times that I had been away from her, what
sorrow might be shadowed forth in every
missive to myself. In returning to her, I had
always wondered what might have happened
in my absence, and always, as I approached our
home, been, as it were, prepared for something.
There was a selfish satisfaction in knowing that
she would not come, that there was no letter
for me, that I was left in peace, and alone, to
get well.

The next time Sir Strafford visited this ward of
the hospital, to my astonishment he passed me by.
He had paid some extra attention to the patient
at the remote end of the ward — a man I did
not know even by sight, but of whom I felt
jealous ! — and then he came slowly along, accompanied
by students and one or two surgeons
from other hospitals ; and, like a king attended
by his suite, he passed by me. He did not
even glance towards me. I was a man forgotten.


Why 1 felt this slight so acutely, why I
TOL. II. B

grieved over it, it is diflSciilt to say. The sick
man is all self; the whole world belongs to him,
and he is the central figm-e in it. Had he been
the dearest friend of my life I could not have
felt this setting me aside with a deeper grief.
I could imagine in my weakness that he had
done me a cruel wrong to ignore my existence
in this way. He had brought me to Kfe again,
but it was the fable of Frankenstein : he did
not love the monster for all the life that he had
given him. I was his monster, and he shunned
me. Might he not even regis-et this in his heart,
that he had recreated me to work more evil,
to go on as I had begun, to feel that it was
my duty to sin on, bending to man's law and
this code of honour, for the sake of the
woman !

If Strafford would only speak to me, if he
would sit down by my bedside and let me
speak, if he would only come again, so that I
might just see him and look my gratitude, I
thought at last. But days went by and weeks,
and I was able to get up, able in a few days
more, they told me, to go away. I wrote a

letter that day to Sir Edward Strafford, and
asked the nurse to post it for me. She looked
at the address critically.

What are you T^Titing to him for V was her
abrupt inquiry.

My thanks.'

Ah ! well, it's right and proper you should
be grateful,' she said ; ' but he does not care for
thanks, I know.'

I had not thanked him ; I had only begged
to see him for a few moments before I went
away. I had implored him to honour me with
a brief interview, to spare me from his golden
minutes only one.

All that day and the next 1 lay resolving
"what I should say to him — what words that
could show my gratitude, my sorrow, my remorse,
without paining him too much. There
was one confession which I wanted to make to
him, one acknowledgment, but he did not
come ; and my orders were to go away, at
last.

On the last day, when 1 was dressed and bidding
good-bye to envious sufferers who had

r2

been near me, to nurses who had been kind tome,
to young students and surgeons whose
cheery words had brightened a few minutes of
my sickness now and then, an attendant came
up and said Sir Edward was waiting in his
private room to see me before my departure.

My heart leaped with an unaccountable joy.
He had relented, he had come to see me, he
was waiting for me.

1 went downstau's to the private room to
which I was directed. I felt my heart beating
quickly and painfully, my senses almost leaving
me, as I stepped into the room and the door
was closed behind me. He was sitting at a
table writing, and he looked up keenly as I
entered, and saw that I was strangely moved.

You are not a strong man yet, Mr. Elwin,' he
remarked very deliberately, 'and of any excitement
you must be scrupulously careful.
You should go down to the sea, and live a
quiet, peaceful life, say for the next six months.
I would recommend the Norfolk coast, or Yorkshire.
Good-day.'

'No, Sir Edward, not good-day yet,' I replied

promptly ; ' I have something more to say,
and I feel that I must say it to yon, God
brings me here to say it surely

'My time is not my own,' he answered, looking
at his watch.

'Five minutes, su One minute, if you will
allow me,' I pleaded.

'Take a seat. You must not try your
strength too much, at present,' he said, ' I
cannot afford you five minutes, I am afraid.
Let us say three.'

Very well.'

'Proceed, then. And pray be brief and
cool.'

In the first place, Sii' Edward, let me thank
you with all my heai-t for '

That would be wasting time,' he interrupted
;' 1 am here to do my duty, and need no
thanks. I might thank you for the liberal
elongation which I hear you have given this
morning to the funds of the institution ; but
being a wealthy man, that is your duty too —
your gratitude.'

Sii' Edward,' I exclaimed, passionately, ' you

have saved my life. Tell me what to do Tv-with city
in God's name.'

And in God's name, sir, don't ask me,' was-his
quick answer, and for an instant there was a
flame in his eyes 1 had not thought to see.

'It is your life. What shall I do ^\^th it
now?' I cried.

I do not understand you,' he said, very coldly.
' Yom-s was a deeply interesting case, and
has afforded me an opportunity of testing a
theory of my own — of prosing a fact that has
been long disputed by my contemporaries. I
was glad to find a subject — and there the matter
ends.'

Not to me. It cannot end like this.'

Pardon me, but it must. Three minutes !' he-said,
looking at his watch.

Sir Edward, I cannot go back to her,' I exclaimed
; ' I cannot begin the life from which
my accident snatched me.'

That is no business of mine.'

I will make her independent of aU worldly
cares, but I will not return to my old life. I
wil not wrong you '

*Pray do not rave of my wrongs, or of yours
he said, vrvth. just the faint suspicion of mockery
about his thin-cut Hps. ' She did not break my
heart when she was good enough to prefer you
to me. I was the hicks man, not you. She was
bad enough for me to despise and then forget,
and there was an end of it. I cut the cancer
away, and the scar does not give me pain.'

'Did you tell her I was in the hospital V

I told somebody to white — I forget whom —
when we had discovered your address. She
was asked not to come : an interview A\'ith you
would have spoiled the best case that has ever
come beneath my notice. And I was anxious
to make a success of you. You are a success.'

A success !' I groaned.

To me, I mean.'

To myself I am for ever a dead failure.'

He took up his pen again ; but, before he did
so, he struck a bell at his side. The attendant
appeared.

'Mr. El^^in is ready to go. Is his cab
waiting V

Yes, Sir Edward.'

'May I say God bless you?' I asked. 'May
I say, for all the past '

No ; don't say any more, please. You won
me.'

May I,' said I, approaching him, 'just touch
your hand in love and gratitude — for once in all
my misspent life, sir?'

There ^^as a slight contraction of the massive
broth, a shudder which he could not repress,
and both his hands were put behind his back.

No, no,' he said, quickly, ' not you ! See
him safely to the cab, Johnson — let him take
your arm.'

But I had wrenched myself away from the
attendant, and was stooping over him and
whispering in his ear.

'As God is my judge,' I cried, 'I do not
return to her. I cannot.'

'No. You cannot. That is quite impossible.'

She — what do you mean ?'

She died in a lunatic asylum, a foi-night
ago. A curious instance of mania about some
children whom she had deserted ten years

Dead ! And I have not been told of this I' I
exclaimed.

It was of the greatest importance to keep the
news from yon,' said Sir Edward ; ' you would
have spoiled my case. Take the gentleman's
ann, Johnson again. Good morning.'

A BIG INVESTMENT.

It is a goodish ten years ago since I was a
junior partner in the firm of Flasher, Gutter,
and Creech. I am Creech, a ' poor creech-ur,'
Fisher used to say in his volatile moments, but
Flasher thought himself a punster. Gudger considered
Flasher ' a conceited hass,^ and said so in
confidence to me when business was not brisk.
And I thought Flasher and Gudger, the couple
of 'em, about as tricky and knowing a pah of
mortals as I had ever met in the profession.
But not a bad sort take them in the lump — far
from it even.

1 was intended for the law. My parents,
respectable gi'eengrocers in High Street, Peck-ham,

had determined that it should be the law,
when I decided for the circus, and ran away and
joined Poynder's troupe. I was fifteen when I
took to horsemanship in public ; in my private
capacity, and on my father's pony, I had already
distinguished myself to all my acquaintances asa
daring bare-backed steed rider. I was applauded
by my contemporaries, and vaulting ambition
took me to Poynder's, where, though I say it
myself, I gathered fame by degrees, and earned
thirty shillings a week for years and years, more
years than I care to count now, mind you.

When Poynder's Circus came to grief, I had
put a little money by even out of my weekly
stipend of thirty shillings, and was enabled to
go into business on my own account. I took a
share in Flasher and Gudger's Museum of Wonders
and AYorld Renowned Emporium of Matchless
Marvels, and became the junior partner in
that show. Perhaps I was wrong, perhaps I
was not far out — I don't know. The advertisement
in the papers was very catching, and
Flasher and Gudger wanted capital. They
wanted novelty too, and they thought capital,

discreetly invested, would produce novelty.
They had no capital themselves, save as it was
represented by two boa-constrictors, a leopard
that was always suffering from headache, two
performing monkeys, a mechanical group of
waxwork dolls representing Daniel in the lion's
den, a two-headed child six inches long in a
quart bottle of splits of wine — the representation
on the canvas was, I blush to own, that of a fat,
double-headed youth in rigorous health, and ina
bright blue suit of clothes — and the horse and
caravan. The caravan wanted repairs, and the
horse — Mayflower, aged seventeen, cocoanut
kind of cataract on the left eye — was possessed
of a constitution that was going rapidly to pieces
for want of proper nourishment.

Still, I joined the firm. There seemed money
in it, and I was too old to settle down. I was
forty-five years of age then, and had been
wandering about all my life, and I loved a
wandering, hand to mouth, open au', vagabond's
existence, as men and women do who drift early
into it, and go here and there with the tide and
never come to anchor. It's not a bad life. It's

not respectable, oh no ! but oh ! the lot of the
world you see, and the changes there are in it !
From bad to worse sometimes ; but then there's
hard lines everywhere, even among you City
swells, as the penny papers tell us quick enough,
and when the hard lines come, you can't laugh
as we can at 'em— not you! You don't get
over 'em at the next town, or the next fair, orin
the next crowd at the seaside. We do.

Well, they were not good times when I went
into partnership with Flasher and Gudger ; but
I went into the concern with my eyes open. 1
saw something might be done, and I paid thirty-five
pounds into the business and went in for my
thirds,' and did my share of work with the rest
of them. I became the Chinese juggler and
fire-eater in professional hours. I was ' expressly
imported from the interior of Chinese Tartary,'
and as I had juggled a good deal on horseback,
it was easy work on the floor of the Emporium,,
and only wanted space.

With our curiosities living, dead, and bottled,
with myself for juggler, with Flasher for acting-manager,
comic vocat. and Shakespearian

reciter, and with Gudger for a tattooed man,
who had escaped by a miracle, and highly ornamented,
from savages in the Caribbean seas — he
was a sturdy, square man, whom we stencilled
over with an elaborate pattern in indigo twice a
week — ewe had not the worst show in the fair,
take it altogether, and we jogged on. We did
not make money ; it was not money-taking times,
and the two-headed prodigy caused no end of
disputes for not coming up to sample outside,
but Flasher was quick nth his tongue, and
could turn the laugh in his favors pretty quickly
too. He had been at it all his life, and knew
what to say to put people in a good humour', and
to thinking that their pennies had not been
absolutely thrown away. Flasher had resources ;
Gudger had not. Flasher had a splendid imagination,
alKed to a reckless mendacity, and
Gudger had no imagination at all. He was
satirical at times, but anyone whose liver does
not act properly is bound to be satirical. Gutter
was a melancholy man, too, and full of
forebodings. "We were always going to the bad ;
it was always going to rain; the horse was
VOL. II. S

always going to die ; we were never going to
earn our salt, and when facts confuted his predictions
he seemed rather sorry than otherwise,
and was disposed to wish for bad luck next
time to make up for it. But he was a hardworking,
honest soul after all, with a chronic
hoarseness brought on by continual exposure
of his tattooed torso to an agricultural or provincial
public, and he had dreams of future
greatness at times despite his moods of doleful
prophecy.

If we could only Hght on something new —
something more of a novelty than pitching balls
about and spinning daggers,' he said, with a
half-contemptuous glance in my direction, ' we
might make a Httle pile before we die — or get
stone broke.'

Quite right, old man,' said Flasher, always
light and easy in his manner. ' AVe'll have a big-investment
some day. Trust me for that.'

I hope we shall.'

We've got talent; we're not moving, perhaps,
with the times, but we're moving.'

'Oh, yes, we're moving; if it's only to the

workers, we're moving Joe,' remarked the ironical
Gudger.

We were moving about Yorkshire then,
making for Doncaster by slow degrees — very
slow, because the horse was lamer than usual, and
suffered from general debility, which not only
necessitated the company's walking by the side
of the show, but compelled a good deal of shoving
the caravan behind whenever there was a little
bit of hill-work. When we came to a decent
village we had a ' pitch,' unrolled our canvases,
and gathered in one or two stray pence, but the
villagers were few and far between where it was
possible to earn anything.

For three days I remember once we had not
had a show ; we had got a little out of our
reckoning, too, and had lost ourselves in a dead
and alive part of the country, where it was all
hills and lumps of stone. Gudger was extra
gloomy, and Flasher not in his usual spirits,
when Mayflower suddenly came to a full stop,
and gave up all efforts to proceed. It was a
patient animal, but wise. It knew what it could
do — what would happen to it if it over-exerted

S2

itself, and it said, suddenly, and as plainly as if'
it could speak, * Gentlemen, this is very inconvenient
for the lot of us, I know, but I can't
move a step further, upon my honour. I give
up. I am done for the next twelve hours.
Urge me by brute force another hundred yards,
and I drop down dead as a door-nail, and not
sorry either to be out of such a hilly and rascally
world.*

We three tramps and ' diverting vagabonds '
sat by the roadside and stared hard at Mayflower.
We were all careful men and understood the
position at once. Showmen are acclimatised to
the unlooked-for. There was only the best to-make
of it. We took Mayflower out of the
shafts, and Mayflower — very much like a gouty
man — hobbled slowly on to the moor, and then
lay down and tried to shiver itself to bits.
Flasher lighted his pipe ; and Gudger, who had
corns, crawled into the caravan and took his
boots ofi*; I found some grass for Mayflower.

'What a beastly place to be wrecked in,'
said Gudger in a sepulchral voice from the
window.

It's a bit breezy,' responded Flasher, ' but
nice and fresh.'

'Fresh be hanged,' said Gudger. *I can't
keep a tooth still in my head.'

'Try a piper

Not on an empty stomach. Not me !'

Then leave it alone.'

'IwiU.'

Flasher and Gudger had these spars occasionally
when things went contrariwise, as they had
done that day, but they soon got over their
little differences. Half-an-hour's sulks, a faint
burst or two of bad language, and it was allover.
They had pulled together in harness too
long not to understand each other's ways. They
had then* weaknesses of character ; Flasher was
of an over-sanguine temperament — a visionary ;
Gudger believed in the worst of everything, and
was an excellent foil to the high flights of our
senior partner ; and I was the happy medium
between the two.

After an hour or two Flasher and I went off
in search of provisions ; Gudger refused to lock
up the caravan and accompany us. His corns

were 'oiful bad, and he fancied Mayflower
might die before we came back. He did not
want anything to eat himself; he might be
going to die too, for what he knew; he felt
cnssed queer all over, he said. Perhaps incessant
stencileing in indigo had struck at last into
his system.

When we were well ahead of the show, and
making for the top of the hill, I said —

Gudger's getting worse and worse.'

He's only put out a bit,' said Flasher ; ' he'll
be as brisk as a bee tomorrow ; brisker perhaps
who knows?'

At the top of the hill we took a keen survey
of the country. It was too much country altogether.
The whole thing was overdone.
Rough moorland broken by lumps of stone, and
backed by distant hills — a bleak, wild part of
Yorkshire, with not a cottage roof or sign of
chimney smoke showing up anywhere, even in
the far distance.

This is a rum go,' said Flasher.

I don't see what is to become of us.'

There's a penny loaf on the top of the

monkey's cage that will do for us at a pinch, if
Gudger doesn't eat it before we get back, but
we want grub for the monkeys and a shinbone
for the leopard, and a lot of things.'

Yes.'

'And we must step out till we find them,
that's all,' said the energetic Flasher.

And, by Jove, we did step out for miles and
miles, without meeting man, woman, or child,
and then we found we had overstepped the mark,
for, looking back to see if there was any sign
of the show, we saw, three-quarters of a mile in
the rear of us, in a dip of the land, and in what
looked Hke a disused quarry, a one-storied
cottage huddled in a comer out of the wind,
and with its one window, Hke a half-shut eye,
squinting at us from the distance.

Come on, Ted,' said Flasher, ' there's land insight.
Come on I'

Flasher had long legs, and the prospect of
refreshment and assistance gave an impetus to
them that quickly took him in advance of me.
When I reached the cottage I found him calmly
ensconced in a rush-bottomed chair', staring

with all his might and main at a very big,
middle-aged, rosy-faced woman in a mob-cap,
who sat in a capacious wooden chalky a small
hire burning in the grate. A tremendous woman
the fattest female I had ever seen in my
Hfe.

She sat and smiled, nodded to me a welcome,
and said ' Good day d'ye * in a broad Yorkshire
accent that 1 will not scare my readers by trying
to imitate in print. She looked the very picture
of good-temper, and when Flasher remarked,
This is my friend and partner,' she said in the
most cheery manner, ' And I hope you're quite
well, too, sir. Take a seat.'

I did so, and looked from the tenant of the
cottage to Joseph Flasher as if for some kind
of explanation. But Flasher continued to regard
the lady with grave interest — I might say
even with grave admiration.

My good man will be back in a few minutes
with the boys, and then he'll help you all he
can, though he can't help you very much, I'm
afeard,' said this cheerful and stout matron.
You don't mind waiting?'

Not a bit,' was Flasher's reply, 'we're tired
and glad of a rest.'

Ah ! rest does a powerful sight o' good,' said
the lady, 'though I have more than is good
for me ; sometimes I ain't hardly able to move
for days.'

I'm sorry to hear that,' said Flasher, politely.
' May I ask now what complaint V

It ain't a complaint ; it's only weight. My
mother was like it, so was my grandmother, I've
heard.'

You might have earned a lot o' money, the
three of you,' said Flasher, regarding the
position from a showman's point of view.

'I don't see it,' said the woman, with a
chuckling laugh that was pleasant to hear,
unless it was by sitting still. Oh, here's the
good man and the boys. They know when it's
dinner-time as well as most people, bless their
hearts !'

There was a cloth spread for dinner, a huge
dish of potatoes smoking in the centre of the
festive board, and an uncut loaf of a very swarthy
complexion at the side, and the preparation for

the humble meal had evidently exhausted the
strength of the lady of the house, who had been
recovering from her exertion when my friend
Flasher had amved.

The good man and the boys — the man
cadaverous and lanky, and in a torn smock frock,
and the boys, five of them, ranging from seventeen
to ten, in smock frocks too, that had been
darned and patched in many places, and had
possibly belonged to the father at an earlier
period — looked very poor and hungry ; there
was an entire absence of that pleasant expression
and amiable deportment which had surprised us
in the fat woman. They all six glared at us in
mute astonishment, and then stood round the
table, clutched at the potatoes, and dabbed them
into a plateful of salt, and ate voraciously, eyeing
us distrustfully meanwhile. The woman
joined them, and glanced apologetically towards
us, as if she was sony there was not enough to
eat for the lot — which there was not, certainly.
We were sorry for that too.

Presently, when the potatoes had disappeared,
she explained the position, which Flasher

had already made clear to her before I had
amved.

'Garge,' she said — she meant George, of
course — ' these gentlemen have had a breakdoT\Ti
on the road, and are obliged to stop till their
horse is a bit better.'

Garge looked out of one eye at Flasher and
me, and said, ' Oh !' and cut himself a shoe of
bread.

They keep a show. Going onto Doncaster.'

Garge said ' Oh !' again, but was evidently
not deeply impressed. The boys betrayed more
interest, and regarded us attentively. The
youngest went to the door and looked about him
open-mouthed for the exhibition, returning with
a sad expression.

The gentlemen keeps wild beasts and serpents
and wants to get food for them, and are ready ta
pay for it, of course.'

Oh !' said Garge again, whilst the boys betrayed
renewed symptoms of restlessness and
curiosity.'

I thought Farmer Shocks could help 'em a
bit, Garge,' said the motherly female, and Garge

said 'Oh!' for the fourth time, and thought
it over quietly, or looked as if he was thinking
it over.

What's 'ee want V he asked at last.

Flasher was the speaker, and detailed his
requirements and what he expected to pay, and
Mr. Oints — for that was the shepherd's name —
thought over it for so long a time that we thought
he had gone to sleep.

They'd better go to old Shocks and talk to
'ee,' he said, suddenly.

Will you show us the way V said Flasher.

It's my way,' said Mr. Oints.

Oh, come on then.'

We were soon on the moor together making
cross cuts for a farm that was evidently hiding
about somewhere, and the lanky boys presently
scattered and went their own ways, looking
about them curiously for the show that had
been talked of.

It was then that Flashed displayed his diplomacy
by sidling closer to the sulky shepherd
for he was a bit sulky, or stupid — and
saying.

'Your good lady is a wonderful woman, sir.'

Wonderful fat,' was the reply.

'Might I ask, do you happen to know what
her weight really is T

'Noa, Don't.'

With good Having and plenty of nourishing
things, she'd get bigger than that, ^Ii-.
Omits.'

Then she won't get no bigger here,' said Mr.
Oints, decisively.

You mean you can't afford good King V

'Never mind what I mean,' said Mr. Oints,
she eats enuf, that's all.'

He did not seem to relish so much questioning,
and turned his shoulder a Httle towards Mr.
Flasher and hunched his back a bit. He was
not an agreeable man, but Flasher drew him out
at last.

She'd be worth a couple of sovereigns a week
to me,' said Flasher.

What !' exclaimed mr. Oints, roused suddenly
to an intense interest in my partner's conversation
; ' what's that you're talking about V

Flasher repeated his assertion.

D'ye mean a-showing her V said Oints, with
his Httle gi'ey eyes ablaze now.

That's what I do mean, old man,' was my
partner's reply. ' It's a pity such a fine woman
should hide herself away under a bushel.'

« What bushel?'

Oh, bother,' interrupted Flasher, ' your wife
would draw crowds to see her.'

You should have seen her mother.'

It's too late for that ; never mind her mother,

she'll do instead. K she'll come — if you'll take

two quid a week, it's a bargain.'

Two quid is two pounds ?' asked the York-sherman.



Yes, that's it.'
'Oh!'

He walked on in deep thought after this, and
Flasher winked at me behind his back. I was
excited, too, at the prospect of a new speculation
which looked absolutely promising. We
had made a discovery, we had found a prodigy,
and Mr. Oints was very poor.

You'll keep her in wattles — that won't be my
look-out V said Mr. Oints, suddenly.

Oh, no.'

She eats a lot when she can get it.'
So she ought.'

There'll be no drawbacks V

Not a penny piece.'

'Where's the show?'

Flasher told him, and he nodded his head
slowly once or twice.

I'll see you again,' he said.

And he saw us again later in the day, when
Farmer Shocks had supplied us with all the
necessaries of life for men and wild beasts, and
we had found our way back to the show and to
Gudger, who had eaten the penny loaf in despair,
and whom we discovered fast asleep in a
corner of the caravan. We found Mayflower
better in health, but lame as a cat, and after
feeding the animals and ourselves, we sat outside
in the sun and talked of the money that was
to be made by the exhibition of Mrs. Oints,
imtil Gudger, who was a bit avaricious, began
to be earned away by the eloquent description
of Joe Flasher.

She can't be as big as all that, Joe,' he said.

deprecatingly, and Joe took every oath he
knew — and he kne\Y a great many — that he
was not exaggerating the ample charms of Mrs.
Oints.

Then the big investment has come,' said
Gudger.

She'll look a picture in white book muslin.'

We must have a new painting outside,' I
suggested.

Leave it to me,' said Flasher.

We shall make five pounds a week,' said
Gudger.

We shall make twenty,' cried Flasher, ' see if
we don't

'But Oints won't agree, perhaps, or Mrs,
Oints,' said Gudger. ' You've one fault, Joe —
you're always so blooming cock-sure.'

'Ain't they all starving, Ted?' said Joe,
appealing to me.

Well, they ain't prospering.'

Ain't he a miserly old hunks, who wouldn't
offer a fellow a tater T

Two fellers and two waters,' I corrected.

Never mind. He wouldn't do it. And when

I said a couple of sovereigns a week, he lighted
up like a bonfire.'

'He did

Very well then. You wait and see. '

And we did wait. And just before it was dark
he and his ^yq sons came tramping down the
road, the father to drive the best bargain with
us that he could, and the sons to see the show
for nothing.

To make a long story short, and to get to the
more exciting part of this narrative, it may be
said at once that the bargain was settled, even
signed and sealed three days afterwards in the
town of Doncaster itself, and a memorandum of
agreement — for three years certain, with option
of renewal for a similar period at an increased
rate of wages — given to each party interested,
and all legal formalities gone through and paid
for out of the balance that was left from the
purchase money of my share in the Emporium.

Mr. Oints had thought it over, and Mrs. Oints
had thought it over, or had been talked over,
and the good lady with the complacent manner,
the large smile, and the appetite was duly con-vol.

II. T

situated one of the chief attractions of the
Emporium of Wonders, and was exhibited for
the first time at Doncaster with the most
tremendous success.

I can hardly tell you what a success it was,
or how we had pinched and struggled to make
it a success by expending every penny of our
substance in white book-muslin, and a new oil-painting,
and a printed poster in three colours.
Mrs. Oints was pleased, too, at her sudden
popularity, and her new book-mush dress, and
with the comments of the crowd as to her proportions,
and if there were a happy family at
Doncaster, it was our noble selves. The tide
had turned and our heads were turned with it.

'We shall make thousands,' exclaimed the
sanguine Flasher.

For good's sake, Joe, don't let it be known
what we're taking,' said the cautious Gudger.

Trust me.'

But Mrs. Oints was curious — Yorkshire folk
are just a Httle bit too curious, I fancy — and
wanted to know all about it.

'They're half orders,' said the mendacious

Flasher ; ' must give away a lot of orders to
begin with.'

They come to see the tattooed man chiefly,'
said Gudger, with a touch of conceit that was
a little contemptible.

Or the fire-king and prince of jugglers,' I
added. ' At all events, it's the combination.'

'Ah! very likely,' said Mrs. Oints. with a
heavy sigh that shook the show to its centre,
for she was a woman who believed what was
told her.

That sigh was starting ; Httle did we think
it was a forerunner of a variety of trials and
troubles in store for us. We were elated with
our success, but we were dancing on the brink
of a precipice, and did not know it. People do
indulge in that exercise sometimes in better
circles of society than ours, I am told.

*1 wonder what they are doing at AYool-
combe,' she said, after the second day of the
exhibition.

What who's a-doing V asked Gudger, who
was dreadfully illiterate.

Garge and the boys.'

Can't say,' he added, sympathetically.

I've never been parted from Garge before,'
she said.

Haven't yon, though V

Never.' "

Then she heaved another sigh — and her sighs
-were as heavy as herself.

Here, don't you go moaning and groaning
all over the place,' said Gndger, who was quick
to see the worst of everything; 'it ain't good
for yon.'

Ain't it, sir V

No. It shakes the fat about,' he replied,
It don't give it time to settle. You mustn't
sigh like that.'

I won't if you object to it ; if I can help it.'

You really must help it, my good woman.'

Very well, sir. But I — I think I should feel
happier if I could be sure Garge and the boys
was a-getting on well without me.'

'Sm-e to be getting on well,' said Flasher,
lightly, even flippantly, as he entered dung this
part of the conversation, ' why, there's more room
in the place now.'

More room doesn't mean more happiness,
sir. Flasher,' said Mrs. Oints, bursting into a
flood of tears. And, when I sap a flood, I mean
a flood ; I never saw a woman with so much crying
her.

My good soul, for lor-a'-mussy's sake don't
go on like this,' exclaimed Gudger. ' You
mustn't fret, upon my soul you mustn't. You'll
lose flesh, you'll bust up the whole concern. Do
have a beetle consideration for other people,
who've sunk a fortune in you.'

I— I can't help it.'

You'll have a letter from Oints in the
morning.'

He — he can't write.'

He'll get somebody to write it for him,' said
Flasher, ' and you'll read he's well and jolly, and
got his two quid, and *

I — I can't read.'

"Well, I'll read it for you then,' said Joe.
Thank you, sir.'

Do you think a little rum and milk would
bring you round a bits I suggested. I was
always practical.

Well, just a little sip, perhaps.'

We brought her a pint and a half, which she
finished, and began to smile. The rest of the
day she was comparatively cheerful. But Gutter
(always Gudger) sowed the seeds of bitterness
in the firm.

Later in the day he took Flasher and me
aside.

Alarm my eyes if she isn't getting thin,' he'
cried.

Nonsense.'

'Taint nonsense,' said Gudger, indignantly.
/ can see a difference in her.'

Hasn't been time.'

Yes, there has. Hers isn't solid, healthy fat,
you may depend upon it,' said Gudger, ' it's a
dissolving view almost.'

Much you know about fat,' said Flasher, with
a disparaging elevation of his nose.

But Gudger was right. The aggravating
part of every dispute with Gudger was that he
was generally right. A miserable and morbid
mind, but too far-seeing for enjoyment of this
world. Next day Mrs. Oints was weighed at a

coal shed, to which we took her in the darkness
of the night.

At the railway station, a week or so ago, she
had bumped carelessly into the scales and dislocated
the machinery, and there had been a
violent altercation between Flasher and the
railway porter — especially as Flasher had been
weighing her surreptitiously — and Flasher had
been delighted and booked the weight carefully
at once. At the coal merchant's a change came
over the spirit of our dreams. Mrs. Oints had
lost eight pounds nine ounces, the weight of a
decent leg of mutton.

Cuss it,' said Flasher.

Later on in the night, when Mrs. Oints was
sleeping in the caravan, and we were walking to
our cheap lodgings in the town — an extra expense
which had come to us since we had begun
speculating in feminine marvels — Flasher said,
suddenly and decisively,

She mustn't get any thinner.'

How are you going to help it ? ' said
Gudger.

We must keep her cheerful. We must stop

her fretting somehow, if we do it by violence.
This mustn't go on,' he exclaimed, with excitement.
' And it shan't go on. Dashed if it
shall.'

'Well?'

She will have a letter from her husband tomorrow
— a jolly letter, see if she doesn't,' he
said, with a meaning nod.

And she did. Flasher amved with it all fuss
and bluster as usual, waving the missive over his
head like a squib.

'Here you are, Mrs. Oints. A letter from
Woolcombe at last,' he cried. ' I told you it
wouldn't be long before you had one.'

Oh, I'm so glad.'

Thought you would be.'

I've had such a sinking ever since daylight
for fear I shouldn't hear from him.'

Sinking, ma'am I Don't say a sinking.'

But it was.'

Did you ever try cod liver oil for sinking V
he suggested.

Never.'

'It's a capital remedy. I'll get you a pail

■of it — a pint of it, I mean. You'll like it ;
yon'U '

Where's the letter V she exclaimed, not waiting
for his fm-ther remarks.

Flasher tendered her the missive, which she
turned over and over in her big hands critically.

'It didn't come by post,' she remarked at
last.

Yes, it did,' was Flashes reply ; ' it came
enclosed in a letter to me acknowledging the
receipt of the first two pounds. Shall I read it
to you V

If you'll be so kind, Mr. Flasher.'

Flasher was only too ready to be kind. He
opened the envelope, drew forth the letter, and
began :

" My dearest Matilda " '

What's that ?' cried Mrs. Oints at once.

He repeated the term of endeaiTiient, and Mrs.
Oints said, gravely,

He never went on like that in aU his Hfe
except at fair time, and many a year ago then.
He's took to drinking — I'm sure he has. And,

oil, the poor boys ! what will become of them ?
—oh ! oh ! oh I'

Hold hard, mari ! just hear what yom good
gentleman has got to say before you flies off
again,' said Flasher ; ' I'm sure it's a cheerful
letter — a capital letter. It looks like it.'

Flasher was quite right about the letter's
cheerful tone. He had written every word of
it himself.

'Don't 'ee mind me, sir. I'm a-listening,'
answered Mrs. Oints, drying her eyes. ' Please
go on ; and don't gabble quite so fast, please.'

Flasher read the letter. In it, to begin with,
the fabulous Mi'. Oints informed his wife that he
and her boys were as jolly and comfortable as
they could possibly be.

They don't miss me a bit,' said Mrs. Oints,
with quivering lips ; ' la ! how soon a poor body
is forgot. Just as if I was dead and gone and
put away already. And only a beetle week,
too!'

But they did miss her, it appeared.

'we're uncommon jolly, but we miss slavery
much, of course," ' Flasher went on, with

alacrity ; ' " we can't sleep for thinking of you." '
Can't sleep ! Oh, poor dears. Oh, what

" Except in the night," ' added Flasher, impressively,
* *•' and then a clear and serene conscience
gives us peaceful slumbers." '

Gives 'em what ?' inquired Mrs. Oats.

Perfect rest. They go to sleep, you know.
The money which that good, kind fellow
Flasher — to whom my respectful regards and
components and eternal gratitude for taking
care of you are due — has sent me conduces to
the comfort and joy I feel ; and you T^-ill be
comfortable too, and free from all wonits,
blessed with the connection that you are doing
you' duty in that sphere of Hfe to which it has
pleased heaven to call you. Let us rejoice and
keep up our suits always in this time of
universal prosperity, and
" Believe me,

" Your loving and ever faithful husband,
" George Oints." '

This was probably not a happy dash at the

style of the absent ]mr. Oints, for the broad
countenance of Mrs. Oints shadowed at the
peroration.

'He must have been drinking awful hard
when he got somebody to say all that rubbish
she said, gloomily ; ' and Garge can't stand
drink. I wonder who wrote it for him.'

Farmer Shocks, I should say.'

'Farmer Shocks can't write either. Do you
think everybody goes about writing and reading
like a pack of children where I come from V she
cried, indignantly ; ' as if they hadn't something
better to do.'

This old woman will be a trial to us,' said
Flasher, half an hour afterwards, as he wiped
the perspiration from his brow.

She's a trial already,' said Gudger.

We must keep her cheerful,' Flasher remarked.
' This is the aim and object of our Hves.'

We'll try.'

Do you sing comic songs, Gudger f

Never sang one in my life.'

'I can't do all the blessed work,' said
Flasher.

'Who asked you?'

We must buy some comic books, and read
them to her — some really laughable books — aud
amuse her that way after business. AVhat's a
good comic book, Creech V

I had a literary bias, it was thought, and
might help them with my advice in this matter,
but I could only think of 'Captain Cook's
Voyages ' and ' Tassels."

They won't do,' said Gudger, with smothering
contempt. ' We must take her to the
play.'

And we did that very evening, and, as luck
would have it, it was a Hvely piece, and kept
her really amused and up to the mark till a fool
of a flute-player squeaked out, * Home, Sweet
Home,' and then we had to hustle her out of the
premises in violent hysterics.

The next day there came a letter from the
veritable Mr. Oints to his wife — a sludge
epistle, with the spelling abominable and all
downhill. Flasher — never too particular a
fellow — felt that he could not show such a letter
as that to Mrs. Oints, so he opened it and read

it aloud to Guclger and me before putting it in
his pocket out of the way.

There was no ' Dearest Matilda,' no amiable
prefix to the letter at all, in fact. It went at
once to business and startled us.

" You mustn't think of cummin' back," ' it
began, ' "so it's no use sending no more
letters. ' "

She's got somebody to write for her,' ejaculated
Flasher.

Who is the traitor V asked Gudger, looking
at me, ' who is the worm in the bud that turns
again us V

It ain't him, so shut up,' said Flasher.
" Don't let that old woman write any more,
becos I don't want to 'ear." '

It's Mother Warts,' said Gudger.

Mrs. Warts was an estimable and venerable
lady whom we had discovered in Doncaster
willing to tidy up and char the caravan twice a
week for four shillings and her food and two
orders for admittance to her nephews.

Warts or no Warts, it matters not,' said
Flasher, loftily ; then he read on, ' " It's in the

contract you're to stop, and stop you \vi\\. Sono
more at present, from Garge Oints." '

An unfeeling, mercenary brute, sirs,^ said
Flasher. ' We will spare his wife such an
epistle as this. 1 will write her a much better
one before the week is out.'

Is this quite on the square V I ventured to
inquire.

Perfectly,' said Flasher, airily, ' self-preservation
is the first law of nature, and Mrs.
Oints cannot afford to lose another oimce.'

But she did lose a quantity of ounces. She
had recklessly thrown away six more pounds
when wee weighed her with great care the
following week. And yet we did work hard to
amuse her. We exerted ourselves to the utmost.
We were ingenious in subtle devices to bring a
smile to her countenance. Gudger tried hard
to be comic even, and made such ugly faces
over his anecdotes — acting his stories, he called
it — that Mrs. Oints thought his brain was softening,
and refused to be left alone with him.
Flasher thought conundrums might relieve her
mind, but they only harassed and pei-plexedher.

She never guessed one, and she did not appear
to understand when they were explained to her,
and the practical jokes he played on me — which
we planned between us sometimes — only reminded
her of her louts of boys on Sundays,
and brought copious tears into her eyes again.
A settled gloom fell upon Gudger and me, even
a shade of carling care finally flitted across the
genial countenance of Flasher.

'If this goes on we shall be ruined,' said
Gudger.

She's big enough at present ; she can afford
to lose a stone or two,' said Flasher, ' but I
don't like it.'

I should think you didn't.'

After the races she shall have some sea air,'
said Flasher ; ' it'll give her tone.'

She don't want no tone ; she eats like a
horse.'

Tliafs a good sign,' said Flasher.

But it was not a good sign with Mrs. Oints.
The appetite increased, but her form decreased.
She became resigned — I think the dinners tended
to resignation, perhaps— but peace of mind did

not produce any further development of body. On
the contrary, week after week showed a serious
deficit, and sea-air made her nearly thin. We
tried Blackpool, as it was bracing ; we toiled and
worked through Lancashire to get to Blackpool,
and then the place was out of season, and the
wind blowing the roofs ofi" the houses, and the
shops half shut, and the streets very nearly
empty. We had a row at Blackpool, too. One
man said Mrs. Oints was no bigger than his
mother, and wanted his money back, and this
eventually led to blows between him and Flasher,
and to Flasher having two black eyes.

The Fates were really against us. The big-investment
was not likely to turn out well. It
was our luck.

I know what I'd do with Mrs. Oints,' said
Gudger, one day very gloomily after sitting for
an hour on the caravan steps, with his face
buried in his hands.

'What would you do?' inquired Flasher, a
little unceremoniously ; ' it's something for you
to have an idea ; out with it, Gudger, before it
escapes you.'

VOL. II. U

'I shouldn't give her any more food,' said
Ginger.
'What!'

It's a waste,' he continued.
Our only chance,' said I, ' is to keep her

«p.'

We'd better keep her down,' continued Gutter.
' She's disposed to go down, ain't she, and
presently we can exhibit her as the Living Skeleton,
and get our money back that v/ay,' said the
miserable man.

Gudger,' said the senior partner, ' I'm
astonished at you. I'm shocked. I mean it.
It's irreverence. It's flying in the face of — we'll
take her to the doctor's this afternoon,' said
Flasher, ' and see what he can do.'

We took her to the doctor, who congratulated
her on getting rid of so much superfluous flesh,
and prophesied that it would be much better for
her health, fie had no more consideration for
the results of our speculation than a pig. He
would not look at it from that point of view fora
moment. He would not understand that fat
was her normal state, and that when she was

getting tliiu she was becoming unnatural in the
highest degree.

We A\Tote to Oints a touching letter at last
this Alas when Mrs. Oints was resigned to us,
and not a bit bigger than any other woman — and
informed him that she was grieving dreadfully
for home, that the doctor thought she had a
compound complication of Nostalgia (we found
that name in the dictionary), and that we would
not answer for the consequences if she were not
taken back at once.

Oints's solicitor replied promptly and sharply,
and resented us to the memorandum of agreement.
He also asked to see a medical certificate
from a duly qualified practitioner as to Mrs.
Oints's present condition, and Flasher immediately
proceeded to write one, till I told him that
that kind of game might lead to penal servitude,
when he said he would think it over a bit more,
which he did, and gave up the idea.

Still, it must be recorded to the credit of
Flasher, Gudger, and Creech that they kept to
their agreement as long as the show's receipts
would allow of two pounds a week to be settled

u2

on the mercenary Oints, who kept an eye upon
sus, and seemed to always know, though he never
stirred from Woolcombe, whereabouts at the-end
of the week we were Hkely to be situated.
He had a bad habit at last of sending some one
for his money every Saturday, as though he
doubted us.

Perhaps this was the last feather ; perhaps it
was the death of the leopard with brain fever —
his head had not ached for nothing all these
years — perhaps it was the extra resignation to
her surroundings that Mrs. Oints suddenly
evinced ; but one early morning when we were
outside York, and the incubus seemed to us
within easy and comfortable distance of home,
to be passed on by one or two friendly parishes
if she got short of funds, we made up our minds
to fly the whole concern — to fly the country, if it
was necessary.

We were in debt to an agent, and there was
an embargo on the show, the two boa-constrictor,
the monkeys, the boy in the bottle, the
caravan, and Mayflower. Also on the leopard,
our most valuable asset, which had gone to

a better world where leopards are at peace —
and we knew the information of the animal's
• decease would bring on the foreclosing of the
loan from Isaac Moss, of Liverpool.

It is a sad confession as a wind-up to this
story — it leaves it utterly without a moral — but
we shook hands sadly with each other one
wintry evening, and went our separate ways,
and were never heard of more. That is, under
our own names. What became of Gudger is a
mystery to this day — some one thought he had
seen him preaching at the comer of a street, but
he could not say for certain. Flasher fell on his
feet and became a chairman at a music hall, and
wore a dress suit, and studs you could not tell
from diamonds, and his easy ways made him a
great favorite. I went back to circus life, but
it was only to groom horses and hold horses for
other people Ah, well ! such a life.

What became of Mrs. Oints we never knew.
I cannot say that we ever cared much, she had
embittered the last days of the Emporium so
terribly.

Perhaps she is still sitting in the caravan in

white book-muslin waiting for us to come back,
Joe,' I said one evening, when Joe Flasher was
standing me a drink at the bar of the Electric ,
Spark Music Hall in Houndsditch.

Let her wait,' said Joe, vindictively.

He had got on in the world at least, but he
had not forgiven Mrs. Oints.

There are some Throngs which a man never
forgives : being done out of his money is, perhaps,
the crudest wrong of all.

THE STONE BOUQUET.

CHAPTER I.

Everybody said it was not likely to turn out
well — but then everybody is so wise. And
what everybody says must be tine, especially
when it is upon a subject which nobody understands
and nobody takes to heart, but the one
poor biped who is principally concerned. Was
everybody right in my case — and was I so
egregiously wrong? So blind, so shallow, so
vain? He who reads these lines shall judge
for himself. I have lost the faculty of judging ;
I am waiting for a greater judgment, and wondering
what it will be like. catheter I shall be

able to plead my own extenuating circumstances
— the fact that I was always true and
earnest, and that I loved her with my whole
heaii:, and would have died for her at any moment.
And that, in loving her so much, I
wrecked at last the little sense which I had ever
had.

I married Cicely Grey when I was foi-ty years
of age, and she was a gii'l of nineteen. An ill-matched
pah, an ill-assorted couple, the beginning
of the old story, May and December
almost : the impulse of youth on one side, the
glamour of the * well-off man ' on the other.
That is what the world said. My petty little
world ! Yes, I incas well-to-do. That is, I had
attained a certain position in my profession, had
made my mark as an engineer, had been successful
in one or two important schemes, was
spoken of — a little — at home and abroad as a
clever and rising man. Almost a genius.

I had studied hard all my life, it was asserted.
I had sacrificed everything to the pursuit of
fame, or of money. I was a close, keen man of
business, and had let nothing stand between me

and my profession. I was thorough. And then
Cicely Grey stood between — took me into another
world, changed the whole consent of my
life, made of me a passionate lover in my
middle age. That fate befalls a man at times
when he loves not in his youth — ' Wait till he
comes to forty years,' and a man Thrill laugh
at love, proclaims the great cynic. But the
cynic is not always right, and that man who
is an exception to the rule — well, woe betide
him !

I met Cicely Grey, and loved her — loved her
all the more passionately because I had not had
the time to love before — had laughed at the
romance of youth from the grim seclusion of
my study wherein I had immured my better self.
When the time came — when I was almost famous
— when people pointed me out as Haviland
the engineer, I found that I could love as deeply
as other men, and be as great a fool in my
own way. And with my youth gone, and when
flecks of white were in my hah', I knew this, and
hoped and prayed one fair young flower would
turn to me too, and take me to her heaii, and

think: the best of me — think me the best of all
the men whom she had ever known I

She was not then twenty years of age, — ' old
enough to be my daughter,' people said, of
course. They always say that. And that was
terribly near the truth. But I was not quite
like other men, and this was my first love. I
had had none other. It was a new life to me.
Cicely Grey had been brought up in seclusion ;
she was the daughter of one of my own craft —
an engineer who had been knighted by his
sovereign. She knew as little of the world —
the hard, real, artificial world — as I did, I was
sure. Men are so sure of what they wish. The
pieces of the puzzle — a fair-woman puzzle —fit
in so well to the wish of the egoist. He sees
no faults, and is deaf to the whispers of the
crowd. He is a blind man in his adulation. It
is as well, sometimes ; but often, alas, it is not
always well.

Cicely had been left motherless at an early
age, and girls who have grown up to womanhood
without thei mothers are to themselves
and to other folk three parts a mystery. They

have lost so much. The life about them is
without the white light to show the way and
train the faltering footsteps. They are not
always to blame, these motherless girls. Was
Cicely Grey to blame for marrying me, for not
telling all the truth, for disguising from me the
one romance of her life in which no one had
shared but the man who was the hero of it ?
The man of whose existence 1 had not dreamed,
and whose name had not passed her lips ? Washer
father to blame, who had some hazy notions
of the truth and of the misery of a mesalliance,
and had trusted to time, and travel, and me — his
old friend — to sink a past folly wholly out of
her remembrance V I cannot say. In later days
it was intimated to me that the father had left
it to the daughter to explain, to laugh away if
she could with a few careless words, about a
school-girl's fancy that had flemished and died
away, and so an end of it ; and the daughter
had thought the father might tell me and leave
me to consider the position, and hence between
the two the silence, and the ignorance — which
was bliss then.

It would have been all the same had the story
l)een told me word for word ; it would not have
swerved me aside — from her — by one hairbreadth
; it would have been no grievance then.
I could have laughed with the father, sympathised
with the daughter, and passed the whole
thing by. Later on 1 did not laugh, but sat
down before an a-svful truth and let it kill me
by degrees.

We were married in the early summer, and
went away for a long tour through the most
picturesque portion of our native land. We
eschewed foreign travel : we had had enough of
the continent, we both thought ; business had
taken me abroad very frequently, and Cicely
had been educated in Paris and knew but little
of England. She would not care to go abroad
for her honeymoon, she said.

It was a honeymoon that presaged much of
happiness for us both — all was so fair : life had
changed for both of us so much, and all about
our new world was fresh and bright.

After our marriage in town Ave started from
the church doors for the country. I had wished

to evade all the fuss and frivolity of a wedding-party
; I had felt that I should be looking too
old and lined and gi'ey at a manage-feast, and
that the guests would whisper of ' sacrifice '
and ' monetary considerations ' and ' poor girl '
to each other, whilst wishing us every happiness.
Cicely had not demurred ; my will washers,
she said.

I shall be always very obedient, Ulric,' she
said to me, laughing, ' and my clever old husband
will always have his own way.'

I laughed too, but the word ' old ' waited a
little. It was not pleasant for me to consider
myself old, or getting old, yet awhile, when I
was beginning my real life. It was more unpleasant
still that she should think so, even in
jest. And I was so young at heart. Good God,
how young I was then — what a little I knew of
W' Oman or a woman's ways — altogether, what a
fool!

There was sight-seeing in the little town into
which we first took refuge. Though wee had
not bargained for it or thought of it, it was a
show place in its way. I will call it Heather-combe,

for a reason that I have. Here we were
to spend a quiet, halcyon week, surrounded by
all the beauties of hill and dale, of forest and
fell, and intensely restful in our own society.

I am sure I shall be very happy all my life,'
she had confessed to me, ' for I know how well
I can trust you.'

She had put her hands into mine in saying this,
and looked at me unflinchingly and with all the
clear depths which her great gi'ey lucid eyes
could express.

The emphasis struck me even then.

'Have you ever trusted in vain?' 1 asked,
laughingly. For it did not seem possible that
one could do anything to deceive her by word
or deed,

I have been too imaginative, that is all,' she
answered, ' too sanguine, impulsive, hopeful.*

Good faults, one might call them all.'

I have expected too much — set my friends
on too high pedestals,' she said ; ' young people
always do.'

And some of the idols have been top-heavy
and tilted over,' was my rejoinder. ' Ah I never

mind, cliilcl ; they Avere uot worth the trouble of
putting back in their places.'

They were not,' she said.

We were wandering in the gardens of this
little town. It was our wedding eve. I have
said Heathercombe was to a certain extent a
show place, and in these gardens was one of the
wonders of the county. It boasted a rocky
mound over which trickled and spluttered a
stream of water with properties of turning into
stone anything exposed to its action for a certain
period of months. Such wells are not uncommon
in England or abroad, I believe ; but it
was a novelty to both of us, and there was
pleasant jesting over it, and over the various
articles which the preceding sight-seers had left
to be petrified — gloves, feathers, hats, and all
kinds of odd tokens, suspended in such a manner
from the rock as to bring them in contact
With the stream.

1 know !' cried Cicely, clapping her hands,
Wait for me, Ulric, I shall not be a minute.'

But a minute out of sight then was an hour
of suspense to a love-sick man. Where can

VOL. II. X

she have gone, what can have happened, I was
wondering five minutes afterwards. Yes, she
was impulsive at all events, and full of strange,
odd conceits. Presently she returned from the
hotel A^4th her wedding bouquet that she had
brought from London — that I had sent to her
early that morning — a poem in fair white blossoms
from a Covent Garden flonst.

This shall not wither away, Ulric, but be
always with us — a memento, a record.'

Love turned to stone,' I answered, a little
ruefully ; ' is it a good idea V

Yes ; a proof of love that endures,' she said.
That is what I mean.'

It was a strange conceit, but I had no objection
to urge. Let it be so. There was poetry
in the fancy, looking at it in the right way.
Love perpetual and that nothing should wither I
So the bouquet was left with the custodian of
the dripping Avell, and no more was thought of
it for awhile.

That is the prologue to my story.

CHAPTER II.

They were twelve months of happiness which
followed. Even the sceptics only muttered
How long will it last, we wonder ?' There
was not a cloud in our heaven ; I studied every
wish, and she was gi-hateful for it. At times
there came a faint, far-away doubt if she were
as happy as myself — might be only happy in
the second degree, taking her life and lightness
from me — content and at peace, seeing that I
was content, but not the life and light natural
to her own young self. A passing doubt even
this, and which she laughed away Avhen I
expressed it once, in the grave earnest fashion
that was common to me, that would make me
look stern and thoughtful at times, even when
my heart was too full of joy for words.

x2

There came no cold to hallow our union, and
we both regretted it. There was never a child
to complete the links in the home chain ; surely
it would have been so different had it been
God's will to bless us thus. I think I see this
now ; I feel it more acutely every day between
this and the end of it. And yet if all had
happened the same, what an extra toi-ture for
the child — what a heritage of horror when it
became impossible to hide the truth, that tnith,
which some snake would have hissed out somewhere.


A little more than twelve months after this I
was compelled to leave England again. The
opportunity was too great and grand for a man
of my profession to miss ; it was the talk of the
world at that time, and I was congratulated on
my good fortune at every turn. But my mission
for some three years lay in a far-away wild
quarter of the world, where a woman's health,
perhaps her life, would be necessarily in jeopardy.
There was rough work, if gi-eat work, even for
men ; so I was to go my way alone for awhile,
and it was arranged that Cicely was to return

to her father's home and keep house for him,
as in the old days, till I came back again.

The last night I spent in England was at a
ball given by an aristocratic friend. I had not
intended that it should be spent in this fashion.
I had thought there was a clear week longer
for me at home, when a telegram arrived
urging the necessity of my immediate departure.


Cicely turned pale.

It is to take you away from me,' she said.

Yes.'

Hen's was the next eager inquiry.

To-morrow.'

Then we will not go to this ball. I do not
want to dance on the brink of my desolation,'
she cried, bursting into tears.

Till that hour she had been very brave, very
sure that it was all for the best, for my fame's
sake and name's sake, but this sudden cutting
away time from under her feet unnerved her.

Cicely, if you msh me to stop — ^if — ' I said.

*No, Ulric, you must go,' was her reply,
don't mind me. I am only surprised. Our

parting; is not for all time — you will be back
again soon. I shall not be so very old, so very
nuich changed when you return to me.'

We did not break our engagement to the
dance. Dancing was her passion, and I was
pleased in watching her pleasures, and content
with a quiet quadrille or two for my share in
the festivities. I thought the evening's excitement
would distract her thoughts from the grim
fact of our premature separation, and that in
the morning, when she Alas tired out and resting
peacefully, I might be able to steal away without
the ordeal of a bitter pah-ting, sparing her
and myself some pain. I was afraid she would
break down utterly in a last leave-taking, and
that the remembrance of her sorrow would unnerve
me, perhaps bring me back to her before
my task was done.

It was a great ball in its way — that is, there
were many guests, and the rooms were crowded
with men and women of rank and distinction.
After our first dance together. Cicely was lost
to me amidst a host of partners, and I was left
to discuss commonplaces with middle-aged

contemporaries, to receive vaiioiis congratulations
on my appointment, to talk right and left
of the very subject which I was trying hard to
avoid.

Presently I found myself Watching Cicely
from the door of the ball-room ; my eyes had
wandered in search of her for some time in vain,
and then I found her sitting in the recess of a
window, whose heavy curtains almost concealed
her from ^-iew. It was only by the fan, a large
and heavy fan of ostrich feathers quaintly
grouped together, that I knew it was she. She
was sitting with her back towards me, half
hidden in the recess — it was only a half-outline
of her graceful figure that I saw there, but 1
was sure it was Cicely.

That was the first heaii-stab which I had
ever had. On that night there seemed to open
out to me by slow and sure degrees the consciousness
that I might not have won the love
of my wife so wholly and completely as. to
render us safe together or apart. My trust in
her, my oantii self-esteem, had received no shock
till that hour, but here was struck the first

jarring note of a whole soul's discord. I woke
as from a dream, and I was none the better for
the waking. There came even then to me the
consciousness that I might be a very Othello in
my jealousy, if God so Tilled that an angel
should prove false. I did not know till then
that I was an intensely jealous man ; she had
been so fair and fond a vri^e, she had cared so
little for the admiration of other men, and had
even taken pains to evade it. It was not from
my wife's manner that this jealousy suddenly
obscured my reasoning powers, my keen foresight,
my knowledge of human nature, every
gift with which other people had credited me.
My suspicion came from the man with whom
she was conversing. I could see him plainly
from my post of observation — a tall, dark man
of three or four and twenty years of age, with a
handsome and impassioned face, and black
eyes which seemed to flash like diamonds with
the toiTcnt of words which he was pouring forth
to her.

It was the life in that face, its earnestness, its
rapt expression, its forgetfulness even of the

scene in which he formed a part, the gestures
which betokened the absorbing nature of his
conversation. Of what could he be talking to
Cicely, to betray so much excitement and
earnestness, what theme of such deep moment
to them both to g-iye that strange look to him ?

My heart sank like a plummet in the sea. I
was aware of danger to me, to Cicely — I hated
him already. I felt this was no common man
standing between me and the happiness of my
Hfe ; the power in him to influence that life for
good or evil was apparent to me at once — I
knew it by some subtle instinct, by the sudden
warning which came to me from heaven — or
hell — as no warning ever came before. A
friendly hand fell upon my shoulder, and startled
me. It was my host, Lord Sandbourne, who
stood laughing at my surprise.

'What, dreaming, Haviland?' he said.

A reverie, my lord — a summer-night's dream
of going away and leasing all this bright life to
others.'

Gad, I wish I could go with you. I should
be glad.'

Lord Saudbourne had had a craze for 
expeditions, and had wandered over
half the world in his day, and written many
wearisome books that nobody cared to read.

I did not continue the subject.

Who is the good-looking young fellow talking
to my wife V I asked, very lightly — too
lightly to be natural— but Lord Sandbourne was
not critical. He put up his eyeglass and stared
in my direction.

Gad, I don't Iniow ; 1 never saw him before,'
he said. ' Lady Sandboiu-ne sows her invitations
broadcast, and I leave the crop to her. This
sort of thing is woman's business, you see.'

Yes, I suppose so.'

I walked away from him. I made my way
quietly and almost steadily towards the recess.
I felt like a man playing the spy. I was not
in any way like Ulric Haviland that night. I
was a new man who had begun a new life.
A dark life, with the light of the old one dying-out,
though 1 would not have believed it then for
all the world, although five minutes afterwards
there did not seem much doubt of it to me.

When I was close to them, the truth was close
t(j(). Neither had heard me approach; the
Avhirl of the dancers past, the bragging of a
waltz from the orchestra, the place in which
they Avere seemed security itself, and these two
did not take heed of me, in their self-absorption.

Why did you marry then ? Why could you
not wait and believe in me?' were the words
which this indiscreet raver uttered to my Avise,
who Alas shrinking back from him, and trembling
and flushing, whose eyes were Swimming
in hot tears.

Cicely,' I said, With suppressed coolness, as
I stood before them, ' I have been Wondering
what has become of you.'

My wife rose and put her hand on my ain.

I am glad you have come, Ulric : I have been
Awaiting for you,' she exclaimed. 'Take me
home. I am tired of all this,' she added, speaking
very rapidly.

Who is this gentleman V I asked, in a Ioav
voice.

Madame HaA'iland Avill introduce me to her
husband,' said the man before me, hi a foreign

accent ; and Cicely said, still homely and like
a woman under a spell,

This is my old friend. Monsieur Danano,
whom I knew once in Paris.'

Oh, indeed.'

Monsieur Danano — now of the French opera
of whom you have probably heard, Ulric'

The name was not unknown to me.

Yes, 1 have heard of Monsieur Danano.'

'As I, sir, have heard of the name of Mr.
Haviland, the famous engineer,' he said, with a
low bow, and a smile which I did not return.
He had recovered from the surprise of my appearance,
the excitement of his own avowal ;
whether I had heard any part of his conversation
to my Avise or not, did not appear to
matter to him. With perfect ease and self-confidence
he said,

You have probably been familiar with my
name, Mr. Haviland, before the Parisian world
thought it worth mentioning above a whisper.'

No, sir.'

I was an old friend of ma dame's — almost an
old schoolfellow — very nearly what you English

call " an old flame." I was saying,' he added,
as he looked keenly and yet laughingly at us
both, * when you did me the honour to arrive,
that Madame Haviland might have waited a
little longer for me. But I am vanquished,' —
here he bowed again — ' and you, sir, are the
vector.'

One could but thy to smile at this bold, but
good-humoured explanation, and then with a
light word or two I bore my wife away from
him. She was anxious to get home, she said,
and I took her at her word. Why should I
doubt it vet ?

END OF THE Second VOLUME.

london : Stunted BY Duncan Macdonald, BLENHEIM House.

o

<>

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.
NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO ANO Received FROM Subscribers IN SETS ONLY.

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR COOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

'! ^' nth. 18 Months.

For ONE Volume at a times . , £0 12 1 l

(hovels tn were :han One Volume are not available for this class subscriptions.)

For TWO Volumes „ C 17 e 1 11 6

(Novels in more than Two Volumes art not valuable ;o> this class of subscript on.)

For THREE Volumes „ 130. .230

For FOUR „ „ l 8 2 10

For SIX „ „ 1 15 3 3

For TWELVE „ „ 3 5 5

I i

LI B RAR.Y

OF Thou

N Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

V.3

AND

OTHER TALES.

VOL. III.

AND

OTHER TALES

BY

F. W. ROBINSON

AUTHOR OF

"grandmother's money," "no church,'
the courting of :nary smith,"

ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. in.

LONDON :
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1887.

All rights reserved.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

The Stone Bouquet (Continued) 3
The Fourth Son of the Earl of Moo . . .37

Gigson's Goose Club '':^7

Samuel Crocketty's Shoes 133

Friends from the Clouds 185

Penprase the Stone-Breaker 231

(CONinOJED.)

VOL. HI.

CHAPTER III.

That ride home was very silent, and almost
solemn. The shadows in the carriage seemed
part of the gloom about my new life — now that
the light of the old, as I have said already, had
gone away for good. I was restless and disquieted
for all my grave demeanour, and I sat
and looked before me and tried to think it out.
As if all the thinking in the world could have
helped me !

Suddenly, and when we were within a street
or two of home, I said,

You never mentioned this Monsieur Danano
to me. Cicely.'

B 2

My voice roused her. She had fallen into a
reverie of her own ; after glancing askance at
me, once or twice,

'Never?' she rejoined, almost evasively.

Never,' I repeated.

But you had heard from father that '

I had not heard anything from your father.
What had he to tel me?'

Nothing,' she said, in a low voice.

That was all the conversation between us,
until Yv'e were in our own dining-room, and were
facing each other at an untouched supper.
We waited till the servant had gone, having
first placed on a side table a bulky packet
that had been left at the house doing om* absence
that evening. 1 rose and stood by the
side table whilst I cut the strings of the parcel,
which Alas heavy and unshapely, I remember.
This gave me an opportunity of speaking in an
unconcerned manner, which I thought might
deceive her. As if she did not know my heart
better than I did hers.

• Did he speak the truth to-night, that man V
I asked.

The truth,' she repeated, slowly.

He said you were an old flame of his.'

I suppose he liked me a little at one time.'
You thought he did.'

Yes, I thought so,' was the naive confession.
And he told you so V

She looked at me steadily for a while. I was
sure that she was looking very intently at meas
I went on with my task.

'Yes. But '

'And you loved him,' I said, tithing round
and facing her with a darker face than she had
seen before ; ' why didn't you tell me all the
truth ? It is not too late to own it. I shall only
be sorry that you kept it back from me all this
while.'

Ulric, don't ask me any questions. Cannot
the past remain the past between you and me,'
she urged ; * what does it matter now it is allover
and gone, when he is nothing to me —
can never be anything more than what be is
now — almost a stranger. Why do you torture
me like this V

My God ! Is it torture to speak of this man V

I do not want to speak of him.'

Did yon love him ? Why don't you own it
frankly?'

Yes, I did,' she confessed, ' he and I — not
much more than boy and girl — would have been
man and wife, had not my father separated us.
Oh, yes ! I loved him, as young girls love the
first man who speaks to them as women, and
talks of his devotion. But it is all ' gone. Oh
don't you hear me tell you so V

Cicely, he loves you still.'

'Oh I'

• And he has told you so to-night. He has
reproached you for deceiving him, and you
have listened to him. You, my wife — do you
hear T

1 had raised my voice now — what demon I
looked like then, God knows — but she was
huddled in the chair away from me, with her
jewelled fingers held before her eyes. I had
frightened her — as well 1 might have done— in
my excitement. She could not answer me, and
I went on.

'And you love him still. You would have

hissed at him with scorn had the Frenchman
been as far away from your heart as I am. I
understand it all.'

No — no. You understand nothing ; you are
not fair to me, Ulric. I was only a weak gil then
I had not met you, seen you. Why do you make
a grievance of all this at last,' she cried, * when
you are going away from me ! when you are
leaving me alone !'

That will be no grievance, only a relief,'
was my bitter answer; and she sprang up
before me then, with her hands drawn from
her face, and clenched together ; with her eyes
blazing ^^dth contempt for me, almost with
hate.

You coward !' she cried ; then there was a
pause, a sudden change of feature, and she fell
back in her chair and gave way to a torrent of
tears, of passionate sobs, of strange, wild failings
that brought me to my knees, and at her
side, in pity for her and the grief I had caused
her. I could not see her give way like this and
remain uncharitable and exacting. I forgot
everything but that she was my fair young wife.

and I bad crushed her with my words. I felt
the coward that I was then, and her griefs were
mine again.

Forgive me, Cicely ; think no more of it,' I
implored. ' I was mad or jealous ; I will ask no
further questions. It is all past — vanished —
dead ! And you are my wife. My wife, Cicely,
to whom I have not said a harsh word until tonight
; whom I ^vill trust ; who shall not hear a
word of this again, I swear.'

She was moved at last, pacified by degrees ;
but she remained very white and sad. The
look in her eyes haunted me for months, as she
rested her thin, hot hands upon my head.

My poor, foolish old Ulric,' she murmured,
in a low tone, ' who would have thought my
strong, stern husband would have given way
like this.'

Who would have thought '

Then I paused — I was silent. I stooped and
kissed her. I had no more to say. The grave,
grey husband was almost himself again.

There, there, compose yom-self, Cicely ; I
will not say another word. This is our last

night together for ever and ever so long ; we
must not look back upon it through our tears.'

Don't go,' she whispered.

'Oh! — 1 must go. It is for the best,' I
answered, ' it is too late to break my promise.'

She did not speak again. Mechanically I
turned to the parcel to give her time to recover
from her sorrow, opened it, and di-ew forth a
dark, reddish, heavy mass of stone, at which I
looked in amazement for an instant.

It is the bouquet,' I said at last. • See, it has
come back — a peace-offering. Cicely. We will
take it as an omen.'

Cicely glanced at it wonderingly, then
shuddered.

A stone bouquet ! Its flowers roughly defined
still, but with all the poetry gone from it, a hard
untameable, angular mass. Yes, it was an
omen.

CHAPTER IV.

When I was away from her, when we had said
good-bye, when thousands of miles stretched
between my ^-ife and me, I thought of the last
might — that miserable horn* of om* parting, that
first sharp quarrel between us. I could remember
too much, so much that was temple and
sad — and her troubled face was always before
me. There were so many questions which I
should have liked to ask her now, and her past
was, after all, so unguessed a story. I was
ignorant of it, I was still in the dark ; she had
taken me at my word and become impenetrably
silent. I was away, and could not solve my doubts.
I did not speak of them in my letters to her,
and she never alluded again to the trial we had
shared together on the day I went away. Heaven

alone knows how the weeks and months went
by in the far-away land where work was arduous
and news from home but intermittent. Work
cid not ciu'e me of the agony of suspense, as
work will do at times to a mind ill at ease —
it was ever before me to brood upon, and grow-like
a cancer in my heart, eating away all trust
in her. Every letter that I received from her
became a study, an effort to detect a difference
the coldness born of our separation from each
other, and of his proximity to her. He would
be always near her, the young, impassioned,.
handsome suitor — the first love from whom they
tore her away — and I, old and grey and
defenceless, was in the accursed country whither
my ambition had borne me.

Yes, all this is a tenable recital, and yet so
commonplace. I was the slave of circumstances
the dupe. They had married her to save
her from him — that was the fact which weighed
upon me, which bowed my head, and set deep
furrows in my cheeks, not the arduous nature of
the task to which I was a slave. Yes, always
before me — the tear-stained countenance of my

Tvife, the face of the handsome Frenchman looking
into hers, the clash of the band, and the
waltz tune which it played for ever ringing in
my ears, when I found them together, the old
lovers — the hero and heroine of a story which
had been scrupulously kept back, which no one
had cared to tell me lest I should ask too many
questions, and be scared away by the answers
they might give.

There were several French newspapers that
reached the South American quarter wherein I
was prosecuting my work ; many of my coadjutors
were French, Avhose friends had not forgotten
them and sent them news. It was strange
how the one subject engrossed me even in this
particular. With every mail I pored over the
advertisements in the French journals, and when
I saw Danano's name, which was very frequently,
it was an intense relief to me. He was singing
in Paris at such and such a time, and here
was my wife's last letter of the same day, with
the London post-mark and dated from her
father's house. They could not be together ; it
was all well then !

When Danano was not singing at the opera,
I began to fancy there came no home letters tome.
This was pure fancy, dissipated very often
by a missive from her, but it was a new torture
whilst it lasted, and I gi'ew more crazed upon
it. Thinking it all over now, in this seclusion
where no face I love can look at me, unless it
is down from heaven in pity and forgiveness —
and my mother's face, not hers — I feel sure that
I was mad. After a sunstroke that I had had
and recovered from, I was completely but
quietly and unobtrusive mad, keeping my
madness so completely to myself that those
about me did not even dream that Haviland's
brain was flawed by one idea. I was all business
to them when business had grown a horror
to me. My great scheme was, in their estimation,
my one thought to Which I sacrificed all
health and comfort — when my one thought was
Cicely, the woman I had married and left
—the young wife with a lover in the back
ground watching like a wolf. A man of her
own age, belonging to her romantic past; a
Frenchman vdth his accursed false French sentiment

that is ever like an ulcer in their books
and plays and poems.

The climax was reached more speedily than
I had calculated upon. I had made up my mind
to return to England before my time, to leave
to others the reward of success, to let the
world of science and engineering say what it
might of my want of courage to attempt great
works and face great difficulties. 1 had lived
down ambition and only cared for peace. In a
few months, instead of two more years, I should
be on my way home. I had acted unwisely to
leave home altogether. I should have known
human nature better in my staid middle age.
But this resolve was hastened on more rapidly
than I had bargained for.

There wandered into our camping-ground a
new recruit — a man ^\dth high credentials from
his government — a friend of Danano, the actor.
It was this friendship between him and my
wife's old friend that attested immediately my
attention, although that friendship had not extended
between them to implicit confidence.
This was all the better, or the worse, for me — I

know not which — but it fixed my resolution to
be gone.

Danano was the prince of good fellows, this
man implied, a great genius — a fellow of infinite
jest and infinite sentiment. He was the idol
of the Parisian world, favoured by the aristocracy,
flattered by the women, altogether
admirable.

And so his head is turned by all this adulation?'
I inquired, after he had come to the
end of his ovm encomiums. ' A Frenchman's
head whirls round very quickly with the breath
of praise.'

Ah, but I do not believe that. Danano is a
man of the world, a sensible being, far-seeing
and acute. He keeps out of mischief,' added
the new-comer, with a laugh, ' but then there
is a reason for it.'

Ay. Indeed.'

A grande-passion which a melancholy Englishman
would call an unfortunate attachment.
A first love even, about which he raves — well,
like a genius possibly. That is this one weakness,'
added his friend, ' but it keeps him steady

and quiet and out of what you call the hurly-burly.
It has that effect with gi-eat men sometimes.'


He is a sentimentalist.'

Yes, if you care to call him so.'

And a sorry one. And the lady's name V

Oh, I do not know,' was the reply ; ' and, had
I the honour of being acquainted with it, I
should not have considered it my duty to
communicate it to monsieur,' he reeked, with
a low bow.

'No, no, of course you would not. And of
course,' I added, with a laugh, * the lady is
married.'

Oh ! that is the rule all over the world. One
of the two is sure to be married, or where,'
shrugging his shoulders, ' would be the interest
of the story V

To a vile Frenchman,' I answered, sharply ;
then I left him amazed and indignant and
thinking of pistols.

That evening I was on my way to England.
I left everything in the wildest disorder : I did
not stop to explain ; I told no one I was going,

but I tlu'ew Tip my work, cast discredit on my
name and good faith, and, with a crii*t note of
resignation on my desk, left the workers to
their o^ti devices. They said from that day
in the camp that I incas mad ; they knew it more
quickly than the dull-^^dtted at home. Danano's
friend only thought that I was frightened. I
had insulted his countryman and had stolen
away to avoid the consequences. An apology
would have been sufficient — the Englishman
i need not have been so frightened as all that.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER V.

In London again, and no one aware of my return.
That was the grim humour of it. 1
caught myself laughing at the idea more than
once in my room at the ' Grosvenor,' but it was a
laugh that told me I was unsafe, there was so
vrild a ring in it. I had not hurried back to
the aiTQS of my wife, to the love Which might
be waiting for me, to the sure happiness I had
set aside for the fame that I had not secured.
I thought I would wait — that, not being expected,
I should have opportunities of discovering
the truth, which would be better than living
to the end of my days in an atmosphere of
lies. To know the tiaith and act accordingly.

Was 1 better than a spy once more — a mean-spirited,
dastardly spy? Perhaps not; but I

do not know the man, beset by the course of suspicion,
who would have acted differently. He
would have found it all out ; and it is never a
difficult task when the soul is set on the solving
of the riddle.

For days I watched the house of my father-in-law,
and paid others to watch, picking my spies
up from the street and rewarding them handsomely
for any scraps of news they gave me,
and they were not scraps which contained any
news of her. She was away — or she was ill.
A doctor's carriage at the door one morning set
all my plots and plans flying to the winds. I
wished into the house, announced myself, strode
past the servant into the drawing-room, and
when he had followed me would have caught
hit by the throat and squeezed the information
from him, had he not backed to the door in his
alarm.

« Who is ill — is it Mrs. Haviland ? — why don't
you tell me ? Don't you know who I am V

'It is — Mr. Ha^-iland— is it not?' gasped
foi-tithe old servant.

Yes — yes — who is ill, I ask V

c2

'My master, sir.'

That's well. I am glad of that,' I said, to'
the man's fui-ther amazement. ' She is safe,
then. Mrs. Haviland is well, I mean ? Quite-well
r

1 — I don't know, su'

Where is she ?'

'I cannot say, Mr. Haviland, really. She is
not staying here now.'

I did not answer. Half stunned as 1 was by
the information, I had expected it. I sat
down.

When the doctor has gone, tell Su' William
I shall be glad to see him for a few moments.'

Yes, su.'

But when the doctor had departed, when he
was descending the steps to his carriage, and
the footman was holding the open door and looking
after him, I stole from the chewing-room and
went with swift steps upstairs. The house was
familiar to me, and I knew my father-in-law's
room. In another instant I had entered unceremoniously
and was standing by the sick man's
bedside. Sir William stared at me as at an

apparition. He was twenty years' older than
when I left him.

Great heaven, Haviland. Is it you V he
cried ; * what has happened ? What is it V

He was very old and feeble, but I did not
spare him. I had grown merciless.

You can guess,' I said.

acely ! My God— not Cicely. She '

He stopped and waited for me to explain.
And I was baffled.

I have come to i/ou to know what has
happened, Sii* William,' I said ; ' it is 1 who
should hear the news.'

'Yes— but '

^^^lere is my wife V

At her o^vn home — your home — for what I
know to the contrary. Haviland, have you not
heard I have been seriously ill — that I am only
just recovering ? How strange you are.'

'Did she leave you because of your illness?'
I asked, bitterly. He looked at me now in gi-ave
perplexity of mind. Did he see I was not as
sane as when I had bidden him good-bye ?
Could he have any suspicion of me ? I should

lose all clue to the truth, if I were not more like
my old self. ' You must not mind me, Sir
William,' I explained, quite meekly, ' I have
been travelling night and day, and am more
excited and upset than I ought to be. But I
wanted an interview with you — I thought I
would come on and see you and Cicely — of
course, Gcely — at once. Adhere is my wife?'
I repeated, ' why does she keep away from me ?''
She left here for the country a few weeks

ago

You said she was in her own home !' I
shouted now.

She will return to-night to it. That is, I
understand she vnlV

You do not know, for certain?'

Not for cei-tain, Ulric. How should I know
anything lying here ? How inconsiderate you are I's

Yes, I am. Forgive me,' I replied. ' You
are a sick old man, and I have forgotten that.
In what part of the country is she V

Folkestone.'

'Folkestone. That is handy for France, Sir
William.'

What do you mean V

Is she going on the Continent V

I believe not. I do not even know for certain
that she is in Folkestone.'

You do not correspond V

N — no, Hic. Not just at present.'

Has she ^T.itten to you V

*No.*

Not since she has left this house V

Hic,' pleaded the old man, ' I am not strong
enough to talk to you — to answer all your questions.
Cicely and I have not agreed very well
together of late — we have had a few words —
not many,' was the simple correction proffered
here ; ' don't think, CMc, it was anything like
a quarrel between us. God forbid that. But
she was unhappy here ; she had gTo^Ti used to
a home of her oro., to friends of her ora, she
said, since her manage. She has outgrown my
ways a little, that is all. And she thought it
would be better — and that we should clash less
if she returned to her own establishment.'

Yes.'

After people are married, relations are better

in the background for awhile. It is an old saying,
Ulric'
Yes.'

I could have shrieked at him a thousand
questions now, but I would not put one more to
him. I had become full of a most merciful
consideration for this father lying here sick unto
death. I could have asked him to reconcile his
story of lier being at home with her being at
Folkestone ; demanded of him the meaning of
her words that she had * friends of her 0A^^l ;'
asked him if he, a shrewd old man, had objected
to those friends ; and if one of them — cruise
him! — were named Danano? I could have
raved at him like the madman that I was — mad
now nth the awful consciousness that my wife
was false to me, that the old lover was once
more in the foreground of her life, and that
I was set apart from her eternally. But I raved
no more. The old man was my friend ; I had
always respected him, honoured him. And I
saw he was in trouble.

I will find Cicely,' I said, calmly, ' in a day
or two, at any rate. Good-bye, Sir William,

and better health to you. I am sony I have
been so hasty, but I have been very anxious.'

Then I went out of the room and shut the
door softly behind me.

CHAPTER VI.

It was night when I went to my own home. I
took time to consider it all ont. I would do
nothing more in haste. People were becoming
suspicious. Even the servants I met upon the
staircase of the hotel seemed to be glancing
askance at me. I do not know why — unless
the muttering in my room had reached their
ears.

The servant who admitted me was the man
I had left in charge. It was his tm-n to be
surprised.

Mr. Haviland !' he exclaimed.

Yes. I have come back.'

He looked out into the wet street — I remember
it was raining hard — for a cab heaped up
with luggage, or some sign of a traveller's

return, and then at me, standing there in evening
dress. I passed him and went into my own
house. It looked very desolate.

When does your mistress come back from
Folkestone V I inquired.

We expect her back by a late train, sir,'
he replied : * she sent a telegram to the housekeeper
this morning.'

I should be glad to sm-prise her, Robert,' I
said, T\dth a pleasant, hearty laugh — not one of
the new laughs which made people turn white
to listen to me ! — ' this must be a secret between
you, and me, and the housekeeper, if you
will. No one else.'

Does not mistress know that '

I am supposed to be in South America,' I
interrupted, ' so this will be an agreeable surprise
for her. I rely on your confidence. Don't
forget. I shall reward you presently and —
handsomely.'

The man chuckled at my little plan. He
was a dull fellow, without a grain of intelligence.
On that night I was a better actor than
Danano.

« Where shall I go?' I said, half thoughtfully.

Your own study Avill be best, sir,' suggested
the man.

Yes, capital.'

Mistress never goes into it,' he explained.
'I don't think the room has been opened for
three months, sir. I had better light a fire.'

No. Bring me a lamp, and leave it as it is.
And — take no further notice of me under any
circumstances. You understand V

Yes, sir ; I understand.'

I passed upstairs into my old study ; it was
thick with dust. No one had thought of it,
or attended to it of late days. It was like a
dead room. Well, I was dead to her, and not
expected back any more. And the servants
had neglected it in the mistress's absence, and
like the mistress. On the mantelpiece Alas
the stone bouquet. It was a fitting emblem
after all. I took it up and poised it in my hand.
How heavy it seemed to have grown, or had I
become weaker? It was like an ugly iron
ornament rusting away, and felt like iron to my
touch. When the servant had brought the

lamp, I locked myself in. I would not be surprised.
Then I sat down and waited, and stared
at the stone bouquet, and thought of all that
had happened since I had sat there last in that
room, of every miserable fact in my purposeless
life.

Pi-presently — two hours afterwards, it might be
there was a knocking and ringing at the
outer door. I unlocked my study and listened.
There were voices talking in the hall downstairs
men's voices.

She has not reached home yet V I heard someone
inquire.

No sir, not yet'

I knew the voice, and I came out on the
landing-place and craned my face over the
balusters to look at him. Had he glanced up,
a face grinning out of a coffin would have
dismayed him le.

*1 will wait.'

But '

'No — I will write a note. Please see that
Madame has it immediately upon her arrival.'

I heard money clink in the servant's palm, as

monsieur Danano was shown into a little room
on the right of the dooi\ I went back to the
study and waited very patiently. I could be
very patient when I chose. * Everything comes
to him who waits.' The line runs in that fashion
somewhat.

Presently 1 heard the street door close after
Monsieur Danano, and the servant stood in the
hall as if he were thinking, and with his fingernails
pressed to his lips. When he went away,
I stole downstairs into the room wherein Danano
had been shown. It was a favourite little room
of my wife's, looking on the square. The gas
was burning there. On the desk in the corner
was a sealed letter. I dashed at it, tore it open,
and read amidst many wild words of affection
and fool's rhapsody these words of warning :

You must hesitate no longer. I icill come at
twelve for you, my beloved. It is too late for
further deliberation. We must fly. Your husband
is in London, and dangerous

Dangerous ! How did he know that I was
dangerous ?

I put the letter in another envelope, sealed it,
and left it on the davenport whence I had picked
it up. It might be as well to see the end of
this, the very, very end. I went up to my study
again, and sat there with the stone bouquet
clutched in my hands, as if some need of
comfort, or of self-restraint, might come from its
cold touch. But the life-blood at my temples
was like the fluttering of a bird, and my heart
Alas swelling and leaping with sickening force
Within me, and everything before me was shimmering
through a mist of blood, as though a
red veil had been cast before my eyes.

So I kncAv all at last. It had all been true
enough then. There was no further doubts forme.
This could not end like the last act of a
comedy, with explanations, forgiveness, and
flippant jesting over past mistakes. The dark
curtain must drop on the grimmest tragedy by
which a man's life can be shadowed. I was not
the first man to be deceived — or the last man
to avenge deceit. Not by many thousands, I
thought, laughing again at the crowds of fools
who were like me, who were about me too, and

grinning at me. I could see their faces — and
their awful eyes — everywhere that night.

There came another knocking and ringing at
the door. It was she. She had come home at
last. God ! I could hear her voice in the halL

I stole out on to the landing again. I had
the stone bouquet still in my hand, and that
was very strange. The servant was speaking
to her, telling her of the last visitor who had
called.

Where is his letter V 1 heard her ask.

In the morning-room, madam.'

She passed in, and the servant lingered in the
hall. Once he looked up the well-staircase, but
he did not see me watching. I had lowered the
gas outside the study door, and was standing
somewhat lack, wondering myself what 1 was
going to do next.

Her voice in the hall once more recalled me
from my half-stupor.

Don't remove the boxes from the cab,' she
was saying homely, ' leave all as it is, Robert
tell the man to wait. I — I am called away
again — at once.'

She was coming upstairs towards me. On
the second stay', she paused and looked back at
the servant.

I have written a letter — give it to Monsieur
Danano when he returns. He will understand.'

No — he will never understand in this world,
neither will Cicely Haviland, nor lier mad husband.
It is all left for the next. As she came
upstah's, I sprang forward and struck at her from
the darkness of my lair, and she fell back, with
one little cry, a dead woman on the marble pavement
of the hall.

I had killed her with the stone bouquet.

They do not know at the asylum that I am
writing this. They Avill see it presently and it
may amuse them — or it may hang me. It
matters not which. I suppose I am mad now —
very mad. But it was not Cicely's death that
turned my brain, or wholly wrecked it. That
seemed just enough till I read the letter she had
left for Danano, and which I had thought washer
instructions where to meet him. It was that
letter which drove me raving mad. Only ten

VOL. III. D

lines, and vet to bring me to this. They ar
seared into my soul till the judgment-day.

^ 1 loll not see you. Havel been hiding from
you all this while and for so poor a sequel I go
away again to escape you — to ic ait fearlessly for my
husband and to confess the truth to him. To confess
that I was a weak vaimvoman, yes ; one echo
loved you, yes ; but guilty, never. And so God will
forgive us both in His good time perhaps, and as
my husband ivill. I will pray for it very hard.
Farewell, Louis, and for ever. I begin my new life
my better life — from this night.'

she was right. Before the ink was hardly achy,
she had begun life anew.

The Reverend Paul Lech\'itcli was fathoms deep
in the perusal of his Times newspaper, and the
Reverend Paul Ledwitch's mother-in-law was
fathoms deep in wool-work of some kind or
other, and flourishing, twisting, and thing
two highly-polished wooden skewers in that
energetic way for which she had been invariably
distinguished. sirs. Goodfields was an energetic
woman, under whose feet the grass was not disposed
to grow, and her son-in-law would have
been knee-deep in grass had he been left to himself
and allowed to have his own way, which
before and after the decease of Mrs. Ledwitch

nee Gooclfields — Arabella Araminta Goodfields,
who lead had almost as much energy as her
mother — had never been the case.

This was fortunate for the Reverend Paul
LedAvitch, for he wanted rousing, and Mrs.
Goodfields, by a merciful dispensation of Providence,
was a natural rouse. He would be at
peace With all the world, and his mother-in-law
was seldom at peace with one person in it of
her acquaintance, not even with the members
of Mr. Ledwitch's own congregation, with
whom she quarrelled in turn for not treating
her with ' proper respect.' Mrs. Goodfields
Alas an austere woman of aristocratic descent —
second cousin to an Irish viscount who was living
quietly abroad out of the way of his creditors —
and therefore she had something to be proud
of; Mr. Ledwitch was a lethargic, placable man,
who composed sermons very much of the
same character as himself, and whose natural
bent was catching butterflies. The composition
of his sermons was a moral torture and a
mental strain upon him, just as the understanding
of them afterwards was to this broad-faced,

bovine Lincolnshire flock in the Httle college of
Deepdunes — population three hitched andfom-,
and taro babies expected before the first of
September — but show him butterflies, let them
flutter in his way over the broad, flat, gi-been
meadows stretching around his dumpty little
church, and he verged upon genius. He was
lachrymose and monotonous in this pulpit, but in
the meadows, in his straw hat, and with a blue
gauze bag at the end of a long cane, he was almost
a giddy boy. He was a free man then —
free of Mrs. Goodfields who ruled him T\dth a
rod of iron.

The late Mrs. Led-itch, it was rumoured in
Deepdunes, had ruled him with the same
objectionable article of domestic discipline, and
hence catching moths and butterflies, studying
their manners and customs, diving into the
inner life of their wriggling and hairy progenitors
the caterpillars, had been as it were a
harbour of refuge from many a stone to the
Reverend Paul Ledwitch, until it had pleased
Heaven to remove this helpmate, for whom he
believed as deeply as though she had been a

more amiable and losing woman than she was.

Whether it was out of respect to his late wife,
or whether it was in sheer subjection to a
stronger will than his own, or whether, as sardonic
folk were not slow to assert — there were
at least four ' sardonic ' in Deepdunes — it was
on account of a snug little bit of property which
Mrs. Goodfieldshad the power to will to whomsoever
she chose, that accounted for her sojourn
at the vicarage, certain it was that Mrs. Good-fields
who had made her son-in-law's house her
own during her daughter's lifetime, continued to
constitute it her abiding place after that lady's
decease. And there she was, that bright July
morning, particularly at home, and her gi'ey-
haired son-in-law of forty-one perusing his newspaper,
which always turned up at Deepdunes
twenty-four hours after publication, Having to
cross-country roads and a general difficulty in
reaching the village, which was well out of the
way of any railway station, and very nearly well
out of the world.

Is there nothing in the paper this morning,
Mr. Ledwitch, absolutely nothing ?' asked Mrs.

Goodfields, briskly at last. A little too briskly,.
but he did not notice it.

'No news of any importance that I can see,'
he replied, without taking his eyes from it.

You have been an hour-and-a-half — to my
certain knowledge — buried in it,' remarked Mrs
Goodfields, ' and you haven't opened your lips
the whole time.'

Haven't I ? Well, I did not remark that,' he
said, looking up at last with a feeble kind of
smile that always aggravated this late wife's
mother.

What have you been reading f

I hardly remember. Oh ! by the way, there
is something interesting,' he exclaimed ; ' a full
report of the entomological '

My dear sir, don't tell me anything about
that. Please do not. I ask it as a favour,' she
said, holding up her hands full of wool and
knitting pins.

Certainly, Mrs. Goodfields — certainly.'

Have you looked over the Births, Deaths, and
Marriages this morning V she inquired.

I have not — at present.'

Just like YOU. Friends may be born, buried
and — bridled without a human being knowing
what has happened to them. Why do you
neglect that part of the paper, and '

I'm not neglecting it, Mrs. Goodfields. 1 am
coming to it directly.'

I don't believe you would have thought of
such a thing, if I had not mentioned it.'

Oh ! come now,' said Mr. Ledwitch, helplessly.

He probably would have left that task to Mrs.
Cornfields, having an expedition on his mind to
Claycross Dyke, where a wonderful specimen of
Vanessa lo had been seen as late as yesterday
afternoon. The gardener's boy had called it
^ old spotty,' but Mr. Ledwitch knew what he
meant perfectly well. And there could be
nothing in the first column worth Ins looking at,
he knew ; he had forgotten all his friends, or they
had forgotten him, long ago, and he was not
deeply interested in Mrs. Goodfields' friends,
whose high-sounding names, and whose important
places in the world, were dinned into his
ears with irritating frequency. He glanced at
the notices listlessly — with fishy grey eyes and

au expression bordering on idiocy, and then he
gave a sudden leap in the aii* — almost an acrobatic
leap — and brought the heart into the mouth
of this mother-in-la^v, avIio was totally unprepared
for such excitement from a human hoeing naturally
undemonstrative.

Gracious heavens I' he exclaimed, ' mercy
upon us ! What can it possibly mean V

What can wJiat mean T

I don't see the object — 1 don't make it out.

I ' and here the Reverend Paul Ledwitch

put his right elbow on his knee, and his hand to
his head, and sat in deep thought with the newspaper
trailing in front of him, till Mrs. Goodfields
snatched it out of his left hand, and frightened
him by her impulsive comes of action.

What is it V she asked.

In the Manages,' he replied ; ' it's — it's
astounding. You might have knocked me
down ^\'ith a Have you found it V

»No; I haven't. But I will,' and Mrs. Good-fields
set on her nose a massive gold-framed
pair of eyeglasses, and firmly focussed the
intelligence.

She had soon discovered the piece of news
which had surprised Mr. Ledwitch, and which
corrugated her expansive brow, and made her
thin hips shut with a snap like a mousetrap.
Then she opened her mouth again, and read
aloud with deliberate emphasis the floating : —

On the l?>tli inst, at St. Mark's, iJeepdunes,
Lincolnshire, hy the Rev. Paul Ledwitch, M.A., the
Honourable Septimus Bullthorpe, fourth son of the
Earl of Moo, of Moo Hall, South Wales, to Alice
Henrietta Shotter, only daughter of the late
Timothy Shotter, of Tiger House, Camberwell Fa7%

s.e:

What do you make of that, Mr. Ledwitch T
she asked.

I don't make anything of it, my dear madam.
I can't.'

Have you the faintest idea V

No ; I haven't.'

You never had,' she replied, smartly. * This
is a hoax.'

Yes ; I am aware it's a hoax. I have not
married anyone for three weeks. The last

couple were Biche, the wheelwright, and Sally
Walker. xA.nd Biche had his face tied up, poor
fellow.'

It's an infamous hoax,' asserted his mother-in-law,
without any regard for Uncle.

It is, Mrs. Goodfields. It is.'

And what are you going to do V

Well, I haven't made up my mind just at
present.'

It must be detected and exposed'*

'That will be my duty, of course. I will
write to the Times before the post goes out.'

You will do nothing of the kind, sir,' said
Mrs. Goodfields, snappishly.

Eh— dear me. Why not V

At least, not yet. The mischief is done, I
daresay — but we must assert our innocence to
the parties most intimately concerned.'

Certainly. The child unborn is not more '

You must ^\TL'ite to the Earl of Moo.'
Ye — es ; it might be as well.'

'And to the Honourable Septimus Bullthorpe.'
Ye — es ; and to him too, I suppose,' he added,
With a sigh.

And to Miss Alice Henrietta Shotter — no, I
would not A^1'ite to her ; doubtless, she is at the
bottom of this gigantic fraud upon the public, if
the truth could be elucidated. Paul Ledwitch,'
she said, solemnly, ' you must elucidate the
truth.'

1 fancy, after all, that a letter to the Times
would be the better way of making things
plan.'

That can be done — that vdW be done in due
course,' she said, solemnly. ' But it is your
duty to call upon this Miss Shotter, or the
Shotter relatives, and ascertain what the motive
is, or the deep design, and unearth it for the
sake of the dignity of the house of Moo. It A^dll
be the means of introducing you to the notice
of the Earl of Moo — it may advance you in the
Church presently, who can tell. And goodness
knows you need advancement, Mr. LedT\-itch.
You've stuck here long enough. If you had
the spirit of a mouse in you — which you have
not — you would start for South Vales this
very evening, and see the Earl of Moo at once.'

I really think that a letter to the Ti '

'But you ^^-ill not go to South Wales, of
course.'

I ^^'ill write to bis lordship.'

That is imperative. And to the son.'

Yes. Although a letter to the Ti '

It would have shoAATi a greater respect ta
the aristocracy of this land, whose names have
been thus nelly trifled with and thirst into
unbecoming and unsought-for publicity, if you
had paid them a personal interview, however
gTcat the inconvenience might be to you.'

I'm sure that a letter to the Ti '

Will put the conspirators on their gaiard, and
enable them to elude detection,' she concluded.
And such a gross imposition as this must be
discovered and punished.'

*It certainly is an exceedingly base and cruel
trick,' said the Reverend Paul Led^^'itch, wanning
with his subject.

It is.'

But I think the Ti '

The Earl of Moo, or his son, will write to
the newspapers. That is their business.'

Yes. So it is.'

But they may not see it. They may be
abroad.'

80 they may.'

And this Shotter '

My dear madam, Miss Shotter may be the
injured party for what we know to the contrary.
The blow, for some sinister purpose, may be
aimed at the defenceless bosom of Miss
Shotter.'

I don't believe it for an instant.'

It is at present a complete mystery.'

Which we will unravel, Paul.'

If it's possible — certainly,' assented her son-in-law.


But the unravelling of the mystery was not
so readily done as contemplated. Not all the
energetic nature of Mrs. Goodfields, exclusively
directed as it was to the rousing of the vicar of
Deepdunes, was sufficient to explain the motives
which had actuated some person or persons
unknown to register in the columns of a
newspaper that the Reverend Paul Ledwitch
had officiated at a marriage which by no possibility
could have come off as advertised.

The Reverend Paul Ledmtch wrote to the
Earl of Moo, and to his cub of a son— as he
disparagingly termed him afterwards — the Honourable
Septimus Bullthorpe, but to neither
epistle was the slightest reply vouchsafed ; he
wrote to the Times at last, and had his letter
published therein, without any effect upon the
mind of any human being that was apparent ;
and it was not till he came across a chance advertisement
in the papers informing the British
public that the Earl of Moo would preside on
Saturday afternoon next at a public meeting at
Exeter Hall in aid of the funds for the Propagation
of the Gospel among Hairdressers, that
Mr. Ledwitch became aware that here was the
mystery still intact and unexplained, and to be
confronted now or never.

You will go to London at once, Mr. Led-witch,'
said his mother-in-law, ' and see his
lordship— and see the Shotters. They are all
together in town.'

Ye— es, they are all in town, I expect.'

Then, there you've got them.'

Oh, yes — I've got them.'

VOL. III. E

This is a case in which your name has been
called-in question — taken in vain, Paul, I may say,'
she remarked, ' and. it must be seen into. It maybe
a conspiracy levelled at you — who can tell T

'Yes, I think I'll go,' said Mr. Ledwitch; 'I
have a little business in town next week, at the
Clerical Stores, but I may as well go this week
instead.'

'To be sure. I'll see your portmanteau is
packed immediately.'

Hence it was that on the morning of the
Friday, Mr. Ledwitch started for London, determined
to sift the mystery to the bottom — to
leave not a stone unturned to satisfy the curiosity
of his mother-in-law and himself. He had
certainly got roused to an inquiry stage at last.
There must have been some motive in expending
six or eight shillings on a bogus advertisement
— people did not fling away shillings for
nothing — and the object was to annoy him, or
Miss Shotter, or the Earl of Moo, or the son of
the Earl of Moo. The odd part of the whole
affair Alas, he could not tell which party it was
intended to annoy.

When he was in town and had had his dinner
at the Inns of Com-t Hotel, it began to dawn
upon him that he had probably come upon a
\\'ild-goose expedition, and he shed in his
heart that he had not been roused, but that he
was trotting about in the Lincolnshire fens with
his gauze bag after the butterflies, or his bull's-eye
lantern, at the hour of midnight, after the
moths. He would have been happy there — and,
after all, what did it matter to him, any more
than to the other parties mentioned, and who
evidently treated the whole affair ^^-ith silent
contempt. He was afraid he should look like a
fussy old parson meddling with business that
hardly concerned him, and dragging into light
again a matter that everyone had been glad to
forget at the earliest possible opportunity. He
thought it would be advisable to proceed cautiously
He would take a little stroll over
to Camberwell in the early hours of that summer
evening, and interview Miss Shotter in the
first instance. Perhaps after that there would
be no necessity to call upon the Earl of Moo
before or after his Presidency at Exeter Hall toe



LIBRARY

Universal OF ILUN0»^

morrow afternoon ; he did not particularly like
the idea of calling upon the Earl of Moo, a
right honourable lord of the land, who had not
taken the trouble to answer his letter.

Now that he came to consider the matter
coolly and temperately, and without the goading
influence of his mother-in-law, he was quite
certain that he did not like the idea. He was
placing himself in a false position nth the Earl
of Moo, he was afraid, and subjecting himself to
a snub from this lordship for his extra officiousness.
And yet there might be a desperate and deeply-laid
conspiracy in the background — the advertisement
must have meant something — there
must have been somebody working in the
dark and for some out-of-the-way reason or
other. He could go to Camberwell Gate by an
Atlas omnibus for twopence, and by a tramcar
for a penny the rest of the way to Camberwell
Park, a topographical waiter had informed him.
The whole mystery might be solved for the
modest outlay of sixpence there and back — the
Shotters would be sure to know more about it
than he did, and the Shotters were located at

'Tiger House, Cambei-well Park, S.E. He would
proceed to Camberwell forthwith, and make
every inquiry for Miss Shotter.

He found that he had some trouble to find
Tiger House. It took a lot of finding. The cab-men
recommended him to try Tiger Bay, and
Tiger Yard, and Tiger Rents, and though each
and all of these localities looked as if any amount
of conspiracies — or of anything else — might be
conveniently hatched there, they did not associate
well, neither they nor their soundings, with
the Earl of Moo, or the Honourable Septimus
Bullthorpe. Tiger House, Mr. Ledwitch had
connect-ed, might be probably a seminary for
young ladies — and the plot had been the outcome
of the teeming, mischievous minds of
boarding-school girls — but there was no school
with so unpleasant an appellation in the
vicinity.

The Reverend Paul Ledwitch got his information
at last from the police-station at the
corner of the Camberwell New Road, and was
subjected to a close scrutiny from a member of
the official force on duty at the time.

Yes, I know Tiger House. What do you
want there T

Mr. Ledwitch felt he was not being treated
with a fair amount of civility.

I don't think I am called upon to state my
business,' he said, with no little display of
dignity.

Oh ! it's business — is it ? You know old
Shotter, do you f

I don't know old Shotter, or any Shotter. I
thought Shotter was dead.'

Tim Shotter's dead, and,' he added, after a
thoughtful pause, ' a thundering good job too.
He gave us a lot of trouble — and we never
could lay hold of him. Never.'

You — you don't mean to say that these
Shottei-s are not — are not respectable V asked
the Vicar of Deepdunes.

I don't say anything about then being respectable.
But if you are — I should advise
you to be cautious. You are a clergyman
really T
a am.'
Have you lost a dog V

No, I haven't,' replied the sm-pnsed vicar.

One of our men ^Hll put you in the way.
And he can wait outside till you come out.'

'Good gracious!' exclaimed Mr. Led^^-itch,
is there any danger V

'I don't say there is,' replied the reserved
policeman; 'I don't say but what everybody
has come out who ever went in — if not always
in the same condition. Xot always.'

I do not follow you, my good man. Am 1
safe in going to Tiger House V

I don't say you ain't. Here, Jem.'

Jem appeared. Unmistakably, a policeman
in private dress, A\T[th a billycock hat all on one
side, and champing at the stalk of a strawberry.

'Show this gent round to Shotter's, Jem.
Business, he says.'

Was the Reverend Paul LedTsatch deceived,
or did the speaker wink at the new-comer on
the scene ? It was a keep-your-eye-upon-him
warning, and he was under suspicion. It was
very ridiculous. As if he should have called at
a ponce-station, if he were in any degTce connected
With a nefarious transaction — as if he

looked nefarious. He would follow the matter
to the end now ; he was glad he had called.
There was a mystery, but he was on his guard.
There were adventure too and incident — and all
the adventures and incidents of his previous
career had been connected with moths and
butterflies. What a deal he should have to tell
Mrs. Goodfields when he got back to Lincolnshire,
to be sure I

He walked by the side of his guide, who
slouched round to the back of Camberwell Park
and then dived into various small thoroughfares,
turning up at last before a row of shops in a
narrow street which in the distance seemed to
end in a strip of water, some timber yards and
whitening works, and in which street legions of
dirty children were whooping and yelling, playing
and fighting.

There's Shotter's,' said Jem. ' I daresay
you'll find me about here when you come out
again — ^if you're not too long.' The Reverend
Paul Ledwitch surveyed Shotter's from the
other side of the way, and did not like the look
of it. Shotter — old Shotter — did not keep his

place clean, and it was necessary to keep a
place clean when the stock-in-trade consisted of
canary-birds, finches and linnets, pigeons, bantam
cocks and hens, parrots and magpies, a
monkey or two, rabbits and guinea-pigs, and
innumerable dogs. Shotter was evidently a
naturalist, and his emporium could be smelt
across the road with starting distinctness. It
was a small house, with some of the windows of
the first floor broken and stuffed with rags.
Tiger House, in black capitals on a drab background,
was painted between the windows,
and Shotter was emblazoned over the shop
front in a dusky red.

Shotter was a respectable tradesman, one who
probably did a fair anoint of business as a
naturalist, judging by his miscellaneous wares.
He, the Reverend Paul Ledwitch, saw nothing
to arouse suspicion in the emporium of Mr.
Shotter, or to warrant his receiving from the
police a subdued warning to be careful when
engaged in business transactions with its proprietor.


I wonder what is my next step,' he soliloquised,

as lie crossed the road to the shop,
which smelt stronger with every step towards
it, and had all the richness of aroma of a stale
menagerie when he was fahly on the premises.

To his sm-prise Mr. Shotter himself, a dwarf
of a man in stature, but tremendously Avide to
make up for it, loomed before him in his shirt-sleeves
— and very duty shirt-sleeves they were.
He was Averring a sealskin cap well over his
brows, and smoking a short clay pipe.

Oh, you've come at last, have you, mister T
he exclaimed, in a hoarse, grating voice ; ' not
that / was in a hurry for you. But blest if you
ain't a-took your time for all that.'

Did you expect me before, then V

You're the parson, ain't you?'

Yes, I am a minister, but '

Then you'd better hook it upstairs afore she
goes off altogether. It's no use a-jawin' to me,
is it ? I didn't send for you,' he said. ' I had
enuf to do with one of yom* lot when I had
five years penal for wot I didn't do — oh, you
know all about it — fast enuf, everybody
knows. I don't pay rates and taxes to be civil

to anybody, and if you've thought better on it,
au' come here after all, 1 ain't called upon to
thank you, am 1 ? I didn't want you — and the
sooner you're gone again the better.'

Ml'. Ledwitch was bewildered by this ton-went
of vituperation eloquence. There was no time
to reply, and Mr. Shotter did not pause for a
reply. An explanation would have been more
to the purpose, but Mr. Shotter did not leave
him any room for explanations, any time for the
collecting of his ideas, so that he might calmly
and deliberately state his case. And Mr. Shotter
had been drinking, and, though the smell of
rum was a pleasant and odoriferous contrast to
that of the Hve stock, it was hardly worth
arguing With a ' iTim customer.'

And the opportunity did not present itself,
Mr. Shotter flung open a door on which hung
cages of several birds, who summarily toppled
off their perches and chu-pet and fluttered in
much confusion as he swung it open. He put a
half-closed red hand to his mouth and shouted
at the very top of his lungs,

Sophy.'

Hullo,' responded a voice as gruff as his own
from remote regions above stairs, ' what's the
row now V

'Here's the blooming' parson thought better
on it. He's coming' up sharp.'

Mr. Ledwitch hesitated no longer. It was
useless to enter into any explanation, and upstairs
was some poor soul sick unto death. He
ascended a steep flight of uncommonly rickety
stairs, holding on for precaution's sake to a
greasy hand-rail, which was broken in one or
two places and stuck out here and there in
javelin fashion, bristling with splinters. At
the top of the stairs were two doors ; the one
looking into a back room was open, the front
room over the shop was locked, and the key in
the trousers pocket of the gentleman downstairs.
Mr. Ledwitch walked into the back room,
took off his hat and looked round.

It was a small apartment, and did not take
much looking round to master the position. It
was a room that was a bit of sui-prise to the
vicar of Deepdunes, for it was a clean and neatly,
if poorly, furnished apartment, without any sign

of the dirt and squalor which characterised the
rest of the establishment. There was a small
harmonium in the comer, there was a youngish
woman of thu-ty, with a complexion of chime
yellow, standing by the fireplace, and in the little
iron bedstead by the window lay a gul of some
eighteen years of age, very paid, very thin,
very handsome, ^^^ith great dark staring eyes,
and a wealth of dark hair streaming over the
pillow on which her head was resting. She lay
very still ; there was a faint quivering of the
eyelashes as Mr. Ledwitch entered, which might
have been taken as a greeting or not according
to the strong-th of the imagination of the visitor,
and there was a look of sm-prise that followed by
degrees, as if she could not believe the evidence
of her own dark eyes. The woman vrith. the
yellow face, and with as fine a specimen of a
scowl impressed upon that yellow as Mr. 
had ever seen in his life, put her hands
upon her hips and exclaimed harshly and unceremoniously
:

And who the devil are you V

I am a minister of the Chuix'h of England,*

was the answer ; * can I be of any service here V
What's he sent you for ? Is he afraid to
test himself with the likes of us now — or what V
asked the yellow woman.

Mr. Led^^-itch thought that he would not explain
to this inquisitive personage, and that it
might be difficult to explain. The white face of
the sick girl attracted him, and the sad earnest
expression upon it enlisted his sympathy. He
was a man naturally sympathetic, was the
Reverend Paul Led^dtch, but in Deepdunes
there was not much opportunity of expressing
kindness and tenderness. Everybody was deplorably
dull and disgustingly healthy.

Have you come instead of Mr. Mandeville V
said the soft voice from the bed.

I heard downstairs that you had sent for a
minister,' he answered. ' I do not know Mr.
Mandeville.'

It is chance then V

'Partly chance. But I was coming to see
you.'

Again the great dark eyes betrayed surprise,
and for a while there was silence in the room.

The invalid was thinking deeply; the yellow
young woman was watching her askance, varying
proceedings by furtive glances towards the
new comer. Presently the eyes of the sick girl
closed, and the colour left her lips, and the face
took a shade more pallor and more angiilaiityto
itself. The woman went to the bedside.

There I' she said ; ' she's off again — off and
on — faint after faint ; it's enough to tire a horse
out. She'd better die and get it over sharp, I'm
thinking. What do you say about it ?'

Mr. Led-itch did not quite know what to say,
and looked it.

'What's she got to live for ? With her straightlaced
notions, and her voice all gone to pieces,
and the guv'nor dead against all she says and
does. She'd better cut it. I only Abash I was in
her place, that's all I'

That is a hard thought for one so young as
you are.'

I've had iwy tm-n,' was the short reply. ' I
don't want to get old, and I won't either. Look
at the beastly colon* I am — that's the jaundice,
that is. And it gets worse and worse.'

And here the discontented female walked to
a small dressing-glass on the toilet-table, critically
examined her complexion, and then lumped
herself down, in a despairing fashion, in a cane-bottomed
chair.

I am cussed ugly, and no kid about it,' she
remarked.

This poor child here ; had you not better *

Oh, let her be. She'll come roimd again ina
liffey — in a minute or two, that is ; she does it
on purpose, just to get me savage. She — oh,
AHce, old girl, do pull yourself together,' she
exclaimed, with a dash across the room towards
the invalid ; * don't make it so beastly hard forme.
Don't go and die right off. I didn't mean
that exactly. Don't '

Alice had opened her eyes again and was looking
at her dreamily.

Oh ! here you are,' continued the woman.
'Now, then, what's to be done with this old
geyser ? Let's have it.'

The sick girl looked towards the Reverend
Paul Ledwitch.

What has brought you here, sh V she asked.

I will not trouble you about it now, my child
said the A-icar, kindly. ' You are too ill to be
disturbed by any business of mine ; and such
paltry little business as it is.'

Perhaps Sophy will do as well. She's very
quick, very kind, and only a little rough. She's
Hke a sister to me in everything.'

Sister, indeed !' was the gruff correction ;
no, nor half a sister. We don't want any
Hes about it. I'm her cousin — old Shotter's gal
and a precious bad one too. Anybody'll tell
you that ; and I don't care who does I'

I don't think it's worth troubling you either.
Miss Shotter,' said Mr. Ledw^tch, politely, ' and,
at all events, some other time will do. But,*
turning to the invalid, * might I ask, before I
go, why you sent for a minister?'

He had a good opinion of me once, when I
was in his choir, sixteen months ago,' she said,
thoughtfully ; ' but uncle would not let me stop
after father died.'

'Why not?'

He thought my voice was good enough for
the music-halls.'

VOL. It. F

Oh !' exclaimed Mr. Leclwitcb. — ' great heavens
!'

So it was,' muttered Sophy, ' a blessed sight
too good.'

And Toil sang at — at one of those dreadful
places ?' said Mr. Ledwitch.

I had to get my living, sir.'

Yes. But, my poor girl, there are many
ways '

Here, hold liard, parson,' interrupted Sophy,
very bluntly now. ' She's not a poor girl ; shea
good one, and has kept herself straight and
proper all her life — straighter and proper than
you, I'll bet. She's the best of us, I must
say. We've all run wild a bit but Alice ; we're
a bad lot, bar one. And you needn't think
a word that's ^\Tong of her ; put it all do^Ti
to me, and you won't be far out in your
reckoning.'

I am not thinking wrong of your cousin, or
of you,' he added.

I'm a music-hall party too. I do the comic
biz, and the dancing, and the topical, and don't
get on at any of it. I ain't up to much. Sometimes

they hoot me at the " Rosemary and the
Star " when I lay it on too thick. What's the
odds of that now I've got such a frightful
colour ? But Alice here does the sentimental,
and gets a turn or two at the '• Pav. " and the
*' Troy. " now and then. Oh, fine !'

Sophy Shotter was talking Hebrew to the
vicar. But he said very mildly to her sick
cousin :

And you liked this kind of life V

No,' answered the gii'l, with a shiver, ' I
hated it.'

I'm very glad to hear it,'

Oh, shut up I' said Sophy, restlessly.

And I did want to tell the minister so, if — if
an}i;liing happened to me. For he believed in
me once. He was a good man. He was sorry
when I took to the halls. He — he thought the
very worst of me afterwards. Oh, dear !'

That's just it,' cried Sophy, ' as if we're all
bad. That's why I should have liked to shy
something at his head, instead of sneaking-round
to his house to-day and begging and
praying him to come and see Alice. As if-^^he

f2

wasn't good — a blessed sight better tliaii he is.
As if she couldn't have married Spoffins — you've
heard of Spoffins, the giant comic, I suppose V

'No, I cannot say I have.'

My stars ! you must have been dragged up
in a desert, old man. Not heard of Spoffins '^
Why, he gets fifty quid a week all round. But
she couldn't bear him.'

Indeed,' said Mr. LedAvitch, politely, ' and so
comic too.'

And if she'd been fly, and played her cards
well, everybody knows she could have nobbled
a real lord's son. He was an awful fool, cere
goodness! and an awful wretch.
But, at any rate, he would have made a lady of
her, and that's '

Sophy, Sophy !' exclaimed Alice, ' you must
not talk like that. You know I — cannot bear
it.'

'Here, don't go off again. I'll stash it; I
haven't any more to say. That's the only thing
we've ever had a row about, she and I ; and,
my eye, an all-round row it was. As if anything
wasn't better than this life ; as if a

brougham and lots of coin to spend, and a
slobbering idiot to help you spend it, wasn't
ever so much better than being knocked about
by the old brute downstairs.'

Your father, does he '

Pitch into us V concluded Sophy. • Oh, yes,
when we put him out or don't give him enough
money to get drunk ^4th. I'm used to it. I
can give him as good as he sends ; but, when he
lays a hand on this Kettle one here, I feel as if I
could almost put a knife into him.'

« Horrible, humble !' exclaimed the astonished
vicar.

Yes, he is. That's exactly it. Ah, and one
of these fine days he'll go too far, you see.
And mind you, AHce girl, if you go and die, I'll
up and tell how he threw you down all those
blessed stairs because you wouldn't ask the
Bull-pup to lend you twenty pounds. There,
that's the fact, old man : the governor thought
Alice was flinging away a good chance of
bettering herself with the Bull-pup, and he
wasn't far out about that.'

Might I enquire who — who is the Bul-pup V

Oh, a real lord's son, to be sure. The girls
call him Bull-puis ; it isn't a bad name for him.'
'Is his real name Sections Bullthorpe ?'
That's the party.

He's a nobleman's son,
He's a nobleman's son,
He's "

But what do you know about him ?'

I-still explain tomorrow. I will come tomorrow
and see how your cousin is. And I
should like the address of the doctor who
attends her, and J\lr. Mandeville's address. My
child,' he said, leaning over the sick girl, ' if I
could do anything for you, in any way to help
you, I should be very glad.'

You're very kind, sirs came the low answer
back, ' but I don't know of anything just now.'

I may come again to see how you are V

You are going to Mr. Mandeville's?'

Yes.'

If imcle will let you come again I should, I
think, like to hear what Mr. Mandeville says-about
me now,' she said, in a low voice.

'I will come again.'

Then Mr. Ledwitch departed, and Sophy
Shotter, closing the door behind her, came a few
stairs down with him.

The doctor's name is Dolby : the minister's
house is by his church, next street. If you can
help her, do,' she said, in a quick, broken voice ;
if you can get her out of this, for God's sake
do. The police know all about it. I've split
ah-lady. But her life is not safe in such a den
as this. Save her if you can. "Will you, old
man i Do, now.'

And then, without waiting for any reply,
Sophy Shotter backed upstairs again and disappeared.
The vicar of Deepdunes descended
into the shop in a state of great perplexity of
mind. Here was a woman in danger, here was
foul play, and he, with more knowledge of butterflies
than of human nature, was scarcely strong
enough for the defence. In the shop he found
the thick-set, truculent Mr. Shotter waiting for
him. From a pair of beady black eyes he looked
out fm-lively at Mr. Led^^dtch. His manner had
completely changed. There was a new suavity
of demeanour about him that was starting.

'Is she comfortable now?' he asked, vainly
encleavoimng to give a ring of sympathy to the
luckiest of voices.

I hope so.'

The doctor doesn't think she'll pull through,
poor dear. But she's young. What do you
think, Mr. Mandeville V

She's very ill'

S'elp me, she just is ! Can't think how the
what the deuce is the matter with her myself,'
he said. ' I've pampered her jest as if she twos
my own child; but she gives up somehow.
Temper perhaps,' he added thoughtfully.

I T^dll call to-moiTOAv again.'

Thanked. She'll be reasonable tomorrow.
She's a bit off her nut to-day — says aU kinds of
tidings, doesn't she V

No ; she has not said much.'

Oh. You don't want to buy a must-rate
black-andaman, I suppose V

No ; I don't.

Capital dog for the house. I've got a swell
parrot too, Mr. — fresh as paint, from Live-pool
this morning. Not a feather ^^I'ong with him.

There he is, cage and all, for four pounds.
He'll say anything.'

It was a fine paiTot, and it would say anything
— that was improper. For suddenly, and
without a moment's warning, it burst into the
vilest and most shocking torrent of words, and
brought the crimson blush of shame to the
cheeks of Mr. Ledwitch. It was a clever parrot,
but hardly a clergyman's parrot.

Mr. Led^\4tch waved two deprecating hands
and flew through the shop door into the street.
A di-dreadful den, as Sophy Shotter had called it :
even ' the fowls of the air ' used bad language.

Outside in the streets, where the lamps were
lighted now, there was some one loitering. Not
the policeman in plain clothes, who had grown
tired of waiting for him, and gone back to the
station-house in Camberwell New Road, but a
very tall young man, who had given Avay between
the shoulders somewhere, and craned
forward awkwardly — who was dressed in the
height of fashion, and wore a white hat nth
a black hat-band — who had goggle eyes, and
wonderfully round, and wonderfully red features,

and Abo, lavishly endowed by native with an
extra length and thickness of tongue, was compelled
to carry part of that ai-title upon his chin
for greater convenience. So very odd a young
man was he, that the Reverend Paul Ledwitch,
whose nerves had been considerably shaken that
evening akeady, gave a little spring into the
ail Avhen this individual crossed the road, and
took his arm in the most friendly and confidential
manner.

How is she ? Is it all up V in the thickest
of accents, and with an aggravated lisp, which
it is needless to repeat here in all its richness
of incoherency. Camberwell was a marvellous
place for character, thought the vicar; there
were extraordinary people to be encountered at
every turn.

You allude to Miss Shotter V

Alice Shotter, oh, yes, awfully so. Did you
tell her I was waiting outside?'

I didn't know you were outside, sir. I don't
know who you are now,' said Mr. Led-vetch.

'Don't you really though? You've heard
enough about me, I'll lay odds,' he said. ' I've

been the cause of all the beastly bother over
there, upon my soul I have, and, 'pon my soul,
nobody can be so a^-fully sorry as I am. I
didn't think — I couldn't imagine — I'm devilish
cut up all round. If anything* happens to that
girl through me — I shall — just you look here.'

And, to the amazement of Mr. Ledwitch, the
tall young man produced a very bight revolver
from his pocket.

Just bought it. Shall send a IjuUet clean
through Old Shotter, and then another through
myself.'

Good gracious, sir I put that dreadful instrument
away.'

When Shotter comes out of that shop, and is
putting up the first shutter to denote that she's
gone, I shall blaze away at him — from behind !
Do you know whom I am now?' he asked, as he
pocketed his revolver.

You're the Bull-pup.'
What the devil '

I mean you are Mr. Bullthorpe, the fourth
son of the Earl of Moo.'

Yes, that's so. And,' he added, in a deep

slobbering whisper, * the most unhappy ^vvTetch
in all the world, if that poor girl dies through
me. 1 shall never get over it. I shall turn

monk, if I don't shoot myself, that is which

I will. How is she V

'Very Aveak.'

I've promised her cousin not to come on the
premises, although Shotter would be glad to
see me, and to sell me something, I know ; and
I've said I won't worry any more. But I can't
keep away. I'm going out of my mind. Brandy
does not do me any good now, and 1 take a lot
of it, too. Oh, Lord ! she was a nice girl, wasn't
she ? Isn't she ? AVhat do you think V

'I think that you have behaved very disgracefully,
if I know anything of the story,' said
Mr. Ledwitch, severely.

'So I have. Come and have a drink — nowe
can't have a dank in this street — liquor's
beastly. We'll have a cab, and tool down to
the club, and — no, I shall not leave the neighbourhood.
You are quite right, Mr. , I forget
what name you said you were — you was
hours was — but I have been a brute, a beast,

a perfect monster, as regards that girl. I "would
have taken her away he continued, ' from that
peaceful home yonder, where all the dogs and
stinking rabbits are — by gad, sir I I would have
named her. 1 didn't know it at the time, but I
would have rather done that than lose her, or
that she should have come to grief like this.
And when she fired up, and told me I was a
damned villain, or something of that sors, and
fetched me the ave-fullest slap one side of my face
just here— I could have knelt down and worshipped
that girl as my guardian angel. See V

Mr. Ledwitch saw that this foi-th son of the
Earl of Moo was very close upon being a gibbering
climatic — that was the most palpable fact
before him at the present moment, and a very
deplorable specimen of ' softening ' he was,
whether it arose from the accident of birth, or
the incident of brandy. He would be glad to
be quit of this scion of a noble house, but he did
not quite see his way to shake him off at present,
the aristocrat clutched him so tightly by the
funny-bone.

When she got home one night there was a

row about something,' BuUthorpe Event ou,
about me and some money, I think, she hadn't
borrowed, and Shotter pitched her downstairs —
awfully practical man is Shotter — and said she
shouldn't stop in his house any longer. And
altogether — but there, it is a shocking story.
I shall I'll Shotter and myself, and make it
shocking, though, if anything happens to
Alice. And, if she gets well, I mean to marry
her. Right off, straight.'

Mr. Ledwitch thought that it would be preferable
for the young woman to die right off instead,
but he did not express that opinion aloud.

Do you know what I did to cheer her up
last week ? — sent her a newspaper announcing
our marriage, just as it might happen, just as I
intend it shall happen, when she gets all right
again. A hint, you know ; wasn't a bad idea,
was it, that I meant everything that was fair
and straight and above-board ?'

Oh, that was you V

Yes ; a perfectly original idea, 1 flatter myself
it was. I put my own advertisement in the
newspaper, and slapped down some old fool's

name iu it for the parson that I fished out of
the "Qergy List" at the club. Wasn't that

good feeling, Mr. , ti-ue repentance. Wasn't

that smart V

Much too smart,' said the old ffjol out of the
Clergy List,' ' and risky. What did your father
say ?'

Oh, there was a row when he found it out,'
replied the Hon. Septimus Bullthoi-pe. 'He
thought I was nianied at first, and then, when I
explained how matters stood, he swore he'd
shut me up in an asylmn. He wouldn't stand
any more of it.'

*Has he had much of it?' was the quiet inquiry
of his clerical companion.

Poor old man — I've been a bit Childish, I'm
afraid,' he confessed. ' But to talk (jf shutting
me up in a lunatic asylum,, when I've got the
brains of the whole family, is rich I Well, here's
a chance of settling down, and everything
proper, and the pater ought to lee glad of it.
And Alice would be a credit to anybody ; she's
been well brought up — or she has l^r ought herself
up well — and she is as good as gold. She

hasn't got an uncle that is all that could bo
washed he added, thoughtfully, * and her cousin
Sophy's a scorcher ; but I shall pension them
oft', or — or poison them. Don't quite know
what to do yet. It's difficult, don't you see, to
know what to do with all of them.'

Ahem. Yes. '

Where are you going now ?'

I'm going to find Mr. MandcA-ille, and *

Ai-on't you Mr. Mande\411e ?'

No, I am not.'

Oh I I thought you were the parson she
makes such a fuss about, Who's got a shop — I
mean a church, or something — at the end of the
next street. He's only a beggarly cm-ate, you
kno^^', and is taking care of the shop — the
church, I mean — for the rector, who's gone to
Jerusalem with Cook's last batch.'

Oh ! indeed.'

'I shan't go any further with you, I shall
wait about here till Soph sends down to tell
me how Alice is. I laye the pleasure,' he said,
raising his hat some distance from his head, ' to
wash you a good evening.'

Good evening, 'Mi Bulltliorpe.'

And the Vicar of Deepdiines parted from him
with alacrity. The next hom or two were spent
in finding out ^Ii*. Mandeville and Dr. Dolbr,
and in hearing from the former full particulars
of the antecedents of Alice Shotter. Mr. mandeville
had only just returned from the country
which accounted for his not calling at Tiger
House when sent for that day — and he heard
the story of her present weak condition saith
grave interest. He was a black-hand, black-bearded
yoimg man, with a big forehead all
bumps.

She was one of the best gulls camberwell,*
he said. ' There wasn't a gii*l like her in the
parish, in fact ; and then the family got very
poor, and she was forced to help them. I was
afraid her taking to the music-has was to bethe
end of a good yoimg Hfe, and I said so. I
tried to stop it, I was angiy^ I was heart-bro

, I was rather hard, perhaps, but I didn't

like it at all.'

Mr. Ledwitch went in search of the doctor
after this. He found that Dr. Dolby was of
VOL. iir. G

opinion that there had been nearly murder done,
but he kept that opinion to himself. It was not
pleasant or safe, whilst attending a patient, to
have that patient's father thirsting for one's
blood. But he could assure Mr. Ledwitch that
Mr. Shotter was one of the most desperate
characters in the neighbourhood, and that the
wretch had not heard the last of it.

Neither had a great many more folk. Miss
AHce Shotter was worse the next day, and the
police, on the evidence of her cousin Sophy,
suddenly made a raid upon Tiger House, and
by the aid of six of the best men in the force, and
a good, strong, serviceable stretcher, conveyed
Mr. Shotter to the station house. And, before
Mr. Shotter came out for good, Alice Shotter
was far away from his clutches — being nursed
back to health and strength by a motherly old
cottager near the sea-coast of Lincolnshire,
whilst her cousin Sophy took charge of the
business till father was free. That was Mr.
Ledwitch's idea — the poor girl was better out
of the way, he thought, for a while. Better out
of the way, even of the Honourable Septimus

BuUtliorpe, before the young man softened
much more, and became dangerous. He had
asked her opinion first though — lest, after all,
she should be fond of the gentleman, and lose a
chance of being connected with the peerage —
and she said, ' Yes, she would be very glad to
get away from him.'

And, having got completely out of his way,
the Honourable Septimus Bullthorpe went back
to the ' Pav.' and the ' Troy' and other halls of
harmony, and did marry, after all, Patty
Chesterton, the ' great Variety artiste,' and was
disinherited on the spot by his father the Earl
of Moo — a nobleman who never stood any
nonsense, and was afflicted by three more sons,
all very much of the same pattern as Septimus,
It not half so impulsive or warm-hearted.
Sophy Shotter accepted an engagement in the
States the day before her father was out of his
time. It was hardly worth while waiting at
home to receive his greeting, she thought.
She sent a letter to Alice before her departure.

I shan't come and bid you good-like,' she
wrote. ' You'll get on all right now, and 



out me. I'm more harm than good to anybody,,
and that's the truth. I'm off with the Gander-son
trio, and the Chicks family. Three ponds
a week, and all found ; but Pol Anderson is
too high and mighty for me, so there'll be a row
soon. I'm not half so yellow as I was, thank
the Lord. So no more at present, from your
affectionate cousin.'

There was a postscript.

'Mr. Mandeville's coming to see you by
Sat-day's excursion, he says. He ain't so bada
sort, is he ?'

And Mr. Mandeville did run doA^^^ into
Lincolnshire. And Mr. Led^atch has a very
shrewd suspicion now — although his mother-in-law,
Mrs. Goodfields, will not believe it for an
instant— that he shall officiate at i\.hco Shotter's
wedding, after all ; for Mr. Mandeville keeps
on running doAvn at every available opportunity,
and Alice Shotter seems very glad to
see him.

Gibson's GOOSE CLUB.

I HAVE never been quite able to make out why
it has been my lot in Hfe to have been more
unlucky than most fellows of my acquaintance
to have had longer spells of bad luck, to have
had luck dead against me from the beginning
to the end, to have never known what it was to
have a fair, fat, downright shoe of good fortune
handed over as my share. I cannot make it
out. I never shall. I puzzle over it sometimes
in my retirement from society's rude glare, for I
am not above confessing that I am an indoor
resident of Saint Malthus's workhouse, and have
settled Hke a butterfly on the parish for goodby
way of compensation for its ' settling ' me

with its rates and taxes, summonses and distraints,
when I was a respectable householder
trpng as hard as I could to pay my way, and
never quite succeeding ; always being just a
little behind, you know, and never able to
catch up. That is not uncommon, is it ? I hear
that even the upper cycles have the same complaint
at times — but that is all hearsay, of
course. I do not know anything about them. I
do not want.

What I should like to know, in these latter
days, struggling with underdone gruel, contract
bread, and bits of gristle which would wreck
the stoutest gums, is why I have never got on
in life, or never had the chance of getting on ?
I have asked the question of myself, I have put
the question to my friends, and from my friends
I have had lots of answers, guesses at the
enigma, candid explanations — ' straight tips,' as
they politely call them, when they wish to say
anything extra cutting, — but they are wide of
the truth, all of them. Everybody is wrong.
There is a deeper reason for it than it has been
in their power to fathom ; the mystery, the

hard luck, and the criic4 injustice of it remain
inscrutable.

I have been told that T was always ' too easy,'
as if being too easy, even if it were true —
should be a came to be visited by the sentence
of the Union ; that I did not attend to business
which is a libel ; that I was too fond of
political argument in the bar-parlour of the
Regent,' — as if political argument were not
the glorious prerogative of a free-born citizen
of this mighty empire ; that I was too fond of
my glass, and, worse crime still, of letting
other people dip into it at my expense ; that I
was a bit of a fool, and never knew how to take
care of myself.

Well, I was generous and conversational, and
unselfish and social, and this is the world's verdict.
This is what people say of me !

But I am not writing my life and adventures ;
I may be a bit of a fool, but I am wise enough
to know nobody wants a long history of how a
man went down in the world. That is common
enough, anyhow. This is an incident in my
life — an episode, a something peculiar that happened

to me before I took to the workhouse,
aud scraped roads, and broke stones, and perhaps
the reader will get some amusement out of
it — more amusement than I did. For there are
heaps of people to laugh at other people's
troubles — lor, how they do roar occasionally !

It was at a time when I was not particularly
prosperous. I was nearly at the bottom of the
hi, but not quite. Being of a more sanguine
disposition than Mrs. Brownash, I had had an
idea that things would take a turn. The gas
had been cut off, and we were burning oil
lamps in our little mill shop, and our regular
customers were complaining of the general
skimming of the fluid in which we dealt, and
the Vater-rate was positively insulting to us
after his fourth application, and coals and
meat were ' awful dear.'

Still I was genial and hospitable to the last :
I had a cheery way ^\i\h. me at the worst of
times ; I was the sunshine of No. 4, Barchester
Buildings ; Mrs. Brownash was the ominous
cloud. She had a bad habit of prophesying
disaster, which was aggravating, especially

-when it came true. I lived for the clay, she-told
me, poor thing. Well, that was quite
enough for me, twenty-four hom's of it.

If you weren't so much at the " Regent," ^ she
would say to me, as if I could stay at home all
the evening in the beastly lack-parlour and see
her dam socks till supper tune. There was
nothing more monotonous ; besides, after a hard
day's work, a man requires society, not socks !

I will o^m that I was fond of society, even the
society of my wife's relations, and that is sang
a gTcat deal. For my wife was not fond of mine
'couldn't abide them,' she o^^iied frankly.
Well, they were not up to much. They never
lent me a penny, or stood security, or backed
a little bill for form's sake, but neither did her
relations for the matter of that. I was an individual
who did not appear to inspire any gTcat
degree of confidence or love in the bosom of
my kinsmen. And yet I would have done a lot
for them had the chance ever presented itself.
I had the best intentions towards them all, I
bore no one malice, I've stood scores of them,
the thirsty ones, no end of drinks. When I was

hard up, when I did not quite see my way, for
all my sanguine forecast of the futile when the
frost should break, and I could get at the pump
more freely, I even had the corn-age and the
generosity to ask eight of my wife's relations to
dinner on Christmas Day. And Mrs. Brownash
was not grateful or thankful for my liberal offer
to her own flesh and blood. She had, I regret
to say here, reached that peculiar stage of temperament
when a woman is not grateful for anything,
when she's snappish and nagging, and
lets you have it at every turn.

'What have you asked them all to dinner
for V she rasped out, when I told her the news.

I thought you would be pleased to have them
about you,' I said, T^dth emphasis ; ' your own
kith and kin.'

Perhaps I should if there was anything to
give them to eat,' she murmured, in a low voice.

There ^vill be plenty to give them to eat,
Sarah I said.

How's that V

Didn't I tell you I was in Gigson's Goose
club V

You are !'

Yes,' 1 said.

You don't mean in a raffle for a goose T lie
inquired, doubtfully.

Oh I no. I have been pang a little a week
from last September, Sarah, and I'm to have a
splendid goose on Christmas Eve. We're all of
us to have splendid geese.'

Who's all of us V she asked, with lack-lustre
interest. I gave her the list of a few of the
neighbours whom I was accustomed to meet at
the 'Regent' — pleasant, amiable, jolly fellows
every one of them, a little too jolly just a few of
them — did not know when to stop, and all that
soi-t of thing, one or two of them — but men of
delicate feelings, keen susceptibilities, thorough
knowledge of the world, deep insight into
human nature, red-hot politicians of both
Liberal and Conservative tendencies, honourable,
upright, convivial friends, whom I greatly respected,
and who cheered my solitary path in life
after my milk-walk all day. My wife sniffed
at their names contemptuously, but I was used
to that.

They've set you an example, such as it is.
But oh! the drink you'll all get through on
deposit nights. We shall have a Christmas
dinner I suppose for once, if you keep up your
payments,' she added.

'If I' I exclaimed.

And I did keep up my payments — the landlord
of the ' Regent ' saw to that. A keen man
of business Alas Gigson — not a bad fellow in
some respects, but with no faith in his fellow-creatures.
There came a time when he even
mistrusted me — that is when he could not trust
me to the mean extent of half-quartern. But
I was out of collar then, and the brokers were in.
That was after Christmas — after the excitement
of the event which I have sat down to nan-ate
in the best English at my command. For T
was brought up well. I married beneath me.
Mrs. Brownash's education had been neglected,
and she was not altogether a fit companion forme.
People have been foolish enough to say,
It's a good job you've got a sensible wife to
look after you, BroT\'nash * — but they never understood
me. They thought I wanted looking

after, the idiots I I suppose they considered it
sensible of Mrs. Brownash to come stalking
into the ' Regent ' at eleven P.M., or a little
after eleven sometimes, put her head round the
door and call into the parlour, ' Are you ready,
Mr. B. V I think, to this day, that that was an
unfah* and unladylike proceeding. That it was
lowering to me. I do not assert that I was the
only one called for, as a rule, but that makes it
none the less humiliating. However, poor
Sarah is dead and gone ; I cast no aspersions
upon her ; she was as deficient in tenderness as
she thought Gigson's goose would be when I got
it, and, though she had not sympathy with my
numerous misfoi-tunes, she was not a bad ^vife
take her in the lump. ' A precious sight better
than such an old soaker deserved,' my wife's
sister Maria has said more than once, and to my
face too. Good knows what she has said behind
my back. I have reason to believe that I could
have got her two years for libel at any time,
had I been so disposed. But I am of an easy,
forgiving disposition, I have intimated. A fly
might trample on me without my raising a hand

iu self-defence. And yet I have been roused —
terribly roused — as natures like mine are prone
to be under exceptional circumstances. I was
roused at Gigson's goose time, and to some
purpose. That is the story which I am coming*
to.

The goose club reached a satisfactory termination
in its way. We were not all satisfied —
that goes ^Adthout telling. You cannot satisfy
everybody. Gigson did not expect to do so.
AVe all met on Christmas Eve and received our
geese ; we left oui* wives, or our shorten, or
GUI' eldest sons to see to join* various businesses
those who had businesses — and we met in the
Regent ' bar-parlour and made merry, as befitted
the festive season, and drank each others'
healths and the landlord's health and the landlady's
health, and had what the vulgar herd calla
high old time of it,' sitting round the room
each man with a goose under his ann.

There had been a little chafe"— or rather nota
little chaff — about these geese of Gigson's.
Gigson had not been absolutely fail* perhaps —
or my usual ill-luck had come to me, and I had

got the worst goose of the lot. Everything had
been drawn for, fair and square — Gigson said
that I had no cause for grumbling. But when
a man gets a very small goose — a dropsical
duck kind of goose — and that goose is not a
properly proportioned bird, but has in its early
gosHng days either broken its chest-bone or
developed a compound pigeon-breast that looked
liked a carpenter's plain concealed under a
film of goose-flesh, or done something to generate
an abnormal disfigurement of torso, there
is an excuse for protest. And good-tempered
as I was, despite my wife's relations on my
mind — all coming in the morning — I did my
share of giTunbhng till I was laughed and
bantered out of my disappointment. I never
could bear malice after my fifth glass of Scotch,
^^'ith lemon. After that, Gigson might have
palmed on me a deformed cock sparrow, and
received my blessing for it into the bargain.

We were more than customarily festive that
Christmas Eve ; I remember that we were absolutely
hilarious. Gigson grew gi-ave about a
quarter to twelve — when he had pocketed all our

vol. iir. H

money — and told us we were a ' sight too noisy,'
and that we had better get home with our geese
before the police stepped in and interfered.
And, after all, we were only brimming with
good fellowship. I was a trifle more brimming
than the rest, and slopped over a bit more, but
then I have told you that 1 was naturally of a
genial disposition, and on special occasions disposed
to ' let myself go.'

I mention this to account for what follows,
when we were all outside the ' Regent ' laughing
and chatting in the cool night air, Slowfii-e,
the cheesemonger, resting his forehead against
the lamp-post because the night was not quite
cool enough for him. And it was not a cool night
for Christmas time, but damp, and muggy, and
foggy, and altogether disagreeable.

I do not think I have explained very clearly
where the ' Regent ' was — if I say in the suburbs,
Pelham way, that will be sufficient for the
purposes of my story. The ' Regent ' was at the
corner of Crash Street, which ran into Gum-ford
Road, which ran into Birchester Buildings,
which ended in a brick wall and no thoroughfare.

I lived in Birchester Buildings, and mv
boon companions — Slowfire excepted, who
thought he should feel better if he remained
where he was for half-an-hom* — were unanimous
in their intentions to see me home — to ^^-ish mea
final merry Christmas on my own doorstep —
to osier Mrs. Brownash, if she would kindly
accept them at so late an hour of the evening,
or the early morning, all the compliments of the
season.

So we marched along three abreast, keeping
to the pavement because it was foggy, very
foggy, and we did not wish to lose our way orbe
run over. We sang, * For he's a jolly good
fellow,' and other pathetic songs on our homeward
journey. AVe roused a Httle too inconsiderately
the echoes of the night, and set a few
dogs barking, and brought Sawkins the policeman
doAvn upon us with a threat to run ' the
blooming lot ' of us in, until Sawkins discovered
that I was one of the pasty, when he changed
his note and his peremptory officiousness, pretty
quick.

I do not think I have mentioned that Sawkins



was a second cousin of my ^\'ife's, and an active
member of the metropolitan constabulary He
and I differed in politics, and on religious topics,
and on the chief burning questions of the daj^
and did not get on very nicely as a rule, but ashe
lived in Birchester Buildings too, and was a
relation — a very poor relation — of my wife's,
and as he and his gawky girl Araminta were
coming tomorrow to dinner — have I mentioned
that Sawkins was a widower? — it world not
have been quite in keeping with the etiquette of
the position to rim me in on the day of the banquet,
and turn the key on the giver of the feast.
He knew that as well as anybody, so begging
us to go along more quietly, and muttering
something about the inspector coming up the
next street, he got out of our way as soon as he
possibly could. I do not thinly Sawkins could
have done less than that.

But, when we were in Gifford Road, we forgot
all about Sawkins again — and the fog was
so thick we were not quite certain that we were
in Gifford Road at all — and Timldns began to
sing again, until in a playful vein — the play-fullest

manner you could conceive — Jones,
always as full of humour as ever he could stick,
whirled his goose round and round by the neck,
and brought it down-^dth a good honest ' bash '
upon the crown of the white hat which Wilkins
was wearing on the back of his head.

To this day I have never been clearly able to
account for Timkins losing his temper in so
unseemly, sudden, and uncalled for a way. We
had been full of good fellowship and faithless
fun until that particular moment, nothing had
gone wrong, and we were returning to the
peaceful bosoms of om families ^\'ith our Christmas
dinners under om arms — looking forward
as it were to the bright tomorrow — when Tim-king,
after struggling from under his hat and
getting his face well out of it, spluttered forth,

Who— who the devil did thats

Nobody said it was Jones — nobody wanted to
make words as a wind-up to a pleasant and
sociable evening — and he never dreamed it was
Jones, who was one of a three-abreast party,
much lower down in our procession. Did I say
there were exactly twenty-one of us ? Slowfii-e

would have made twenty-two, had he left the
lamp-post and come on. Jones had slipped back
to his place very adroitly, and when Timkins
twisted himself indignantly round, there was I
immediately behind him, grinning, as he said
afterwards, from ear to ear.

That's like yom stupid drunken foolery
Brownash,' he bawled ; and then, before I expected
it, there came his goose, — a fine, fat
fourteen pound goose of which anyone might
be proud — slap across my mouth. He might as
well have struck me with a bludgeon, for being
at the same time taken ofi* my guard, and on
the extreme edge of the kerb, doAvn I went into
the roadway, dragging my two friends with me,
one of whom had come in for the rest of the
blow which my features were not large enough
to accommodate. That was Simcox the shoemaker,
who was naturally a hasty man, and at
whose precipitate action in consequence I was
not as surprised as I had been in the case of
Timkins. For, before I could avenge my own
wrongs at this unfair and cowardly assault,
Simcox had sprung to his feet and run at

Timkins, and overturned him — unfortunately
on to me, just as I was getting up and putting
myself straight.

I remember very little more except that there
was a general melee after this, a taking of sides
as friendship or chance directed, a deal of bad
language and brute force, a scuffling and budging
of each other into various front gardens, and
then out again into the middle of the road,
a banging of each other's heads with goose-flesh,
combined with much shouting and a general
mix up. 1 am sure blows were freely inter-^
changed, and that I received more than my fair
share of them — that I felt at last I was fighting
for my life, — and that people from their upstairs
windows were screaming ' fire ' and
murder.'

I became conscious at last that the battle was
over, and that we were all shaking hands again,
and apologising one to another, and saying it
was all fun, and weeping on one another's
shoulders, and wondering how it had all
happened that we should have suddenly thirsted
as it were for each other's blood, and made

such awful idiots of ourselves. And I Lad
dropped my goose in the confusion somewhere
and there was not a trace of it left — not a
sign of it anywhere. That was the extraordinary
mystery of it all. The goose had vanished
utterly and completely. Here were twenty-one
of us, and only twenty geese. The hump-chester
bird was no longer of my world.

We stood in a compact little mob, and considered
the position. I received the sincere
condolences of all my friends — even Timkins
condoled with me, as I had forgiven Timkins'
unjustifiable onslaught — and every man Jack
offered to be searched from top to toe if I should
have the remotest suspicion that any one of
them had got my goose.

I did not suspect them — I told them that I
would prefer death at the stake to suspecting
the most unworthy of the score of them — and
they believed me. They were sorry and
bewildered — they put themselves in my place
and were exceedingly distressed — they swore,
very improperly, not to leave me till the goose
was found — and they were indefatigable in their

search without result. AVe went into all the
front gardens, and groped about on our hands
and knees ; we retraced our steps to Crawfish
Street, we gravelled about the gutters, we ran
against each other in the fog, we scoured the
pavement on both sides of the way, we lighted
all the matches and vesuvius we had in our
respective pockets, but there was no light
thrown on the missing goose.

It was a blow to me. A gi-eater blow than
Tim king, in the heat of the moment and with
his blood boiling in his veins, had given me
some time before. I was utterly overcome. I
sat do^Ti on the kerbstone with my back against
a letter-box and nursed my sorrow. I dared
not face Mrs. Brownash alone under the peculiar
circumstances of the case, and not one out of the
score of them talked any more of accompanying
me home to wish Mrs. B. all the compliments of
the season. Oh ! no — that would not do now,
they were sure of it, the cowards !

Timkins said to me,

What's the use of sitting there, Brownash V

I don't know.'

You'll catch your death of cold?'
I don't cares

Are you coming on V Simcox said.
I ain't a-coming on.'

'Then stop where von are I' was Simcox's
brutal remark as he marched away from me.

After that the party broke slowly up. I
daresay 1 was obstinate and hard to manage —
and the hour teas late, and there were other
wives waiting for their husbands' return besides
Mrs. Brownash. I daresay if I had had five
Scotch's ' instead of six, it would have rendered
me more ductile and flexible, for I declined to
move from my ]position, and the letter-box
sheltered me from the wind, and there was only
cold comfort at home.

My old companions drifted from me by degrees
most of them with their teeth chattering ; the
cold grew more intense, and the fog thicker.
Jones was the last to go, but he too finally gave
me up in despair*.

You'll be found frozen to death in the morning,
and there'll be a pretty go,' said Jones, in
warning accents.

I'm quite ami enough, thank you.'

I can't stop any longer.'

I ain't asldng you to stop, am I ?'

I shall tell the first policeman to keep an eye
upon you,' he said.

That's right ; tell Sawkins.'

'Are you sitting here with any object, or
hasn't you V Jones asked, snappishly. He was
rather an ignorant fellow was Jones, though
not bad company at the ' Regent.' At the
Regent ' Jones was at his best.

Yes, I have a object,' I said, with considerable
satirical emphasis, but he did not seem
to see it.

'What is it?'

I am not going home without my goose.'

But you can't find it.'

I shall when it's daylight, 1 daresay, and if
some of you fellows haven't nicked it.'

After which ungenerous remark, Jones walked
home Tv^thout so much as another word. He
was the last of them, and I was left alone in my
glory in Rumford Road.

Very probably he did me a good turn after

all, tlioiigli I did not think so when the news
came to me days and days afterwards, that he
had found out Sawkins and told him where I
was and what I was doing, and begged Sawkins
to keep an eye on ' the obstinate old beggar,'
and so Sawkins came tramping round to find mea
quarter-of-an-hour afterwards.

Have I said that Sawkins was a rough, uncultured
bully of a man, and of a policeman ?
I think 1 have impHed so. There was no more
refinement in him than in a pig. I fancy I must
have dozed ofi" a little after Jones had gone, for
I was certainly not prepared for my wife's second
cousin suddenly catching me up under the armpits
and propping me against the letter-box.

Upon my soul and body, relation or no
relation, I'll run you in, BroA\mash, if you give a
fellow all this blessed trouble,' were the first
words he murmured — very hoarsely — in my
ears. ' AVhat the blazes have you been sitting
here for V

Haven't you heard the dreadful news V

Yes. You've lost your goose. Well, this
isn't the way to find it, is it V

How would you set about it V I asked, sarcastically.


I wouldn't set here,' said the ungrammatical
beast : ' I'd go home, and come back when it's
daylight. Though,' he added, illogically, ' that's
not a bit o' use.'

« Why ain't it V

Some of your mates has got it fast enough.
It's one of their' larks, you may stake your daddy
on that.'

If I thought so— I'd—I'd— I'd be the death
of the thief.'

I daresay you'D. find it tied to the knocker,
or sent round in the morning, or something,' he
suggested; 'you're all a bit on, and don't know
what you're about.'

Sawkins,' I said, gravely, ' if you say another
word, I'll report you to your inspector.'

This annoyed Sawkins — a chide, rough-handed
jack-in-office, clad in a Httle brief authority.
Y ou know the kind of man I mean.

Looked here, Brownash. Cheek is a thing I
never did stand from a cove in liquor,' he said.
Now, for the last time, are you a-going' home.

or ain't you a-going' home? Let's have it.
Straight.'

He could afford to be insolent and tyrannical
now. There was no goose for to-moiTow's dinner
— there was no dinner at all, for the matter of
that. It was a fine look-out, the Lord knows.
He could tower over me nth his superior youth
and strength. He was only forty-two, and as
big as an ox — one of your big beasts.

Well, I'm going home,' I said, sullenly at last.
Will that do for you V

It's the wisest thing you can do,' he replied.

I don't know that. I'd just as soon be run
in out of sirs. Brownash's way till it blows over.
But,' I added, ' the first thing in the morning I
shall be out again. The goose is somewhere
about. The damned thing can't fly.'

'Yom* mates have got it,' said the positive
Sawldns again ; ' don't I keep telling you so V

You're precious wise, you are,' I muttered.
Then I walked homewards, and he walked after
me, trpng to keep an eye on me. I dodged
him there, though. I crossed over the way,
doubled in the fog, and left him wondering what

had become of me. I was not going to be
followed about by him — not if I knew it. But
I went home. after all, it was about the best
thing that could be done, although only Sawkins
had said so.

Over the incidents of that return home I draw
a veil. The reader shall be mercifully spared
the recital of family bickering and injustice, of
accusation and recrimination, of what Mrs.
BroT\'nash said to me, or I said to Mrs. Brown-ash,
and how Mrs. Brownash's sister — have I
mentioned before that I consider Mrs. Bro^\Ti-
ash's sister a spiteful old cat? — backed up Mrs.
Brownash in acrid remarks of her own, which
proved conclusively to me that she was the
most waspish being that ever was weighed in
the scale of feminine humanity. I ^\dll not
sully these pages with assertions against my
own name and fame, uttered by the bone of my
bone, the flesh of my flesh, the scrag of my
scrag.

I had no peace. I tried to laugh away the
stone, or to make head against it, or to submit
in sullen despair to it. Their conduct, their insulting

remarks, their stream of abuse kept on.
It was as well, I thought — I behave I told them
in plan words — that there were no children
about us now to learn how their poor mother
went on. For our Sally was manned and gone
from us to HolloAvaj. She and her husband,
and their first baby, were expected to dinner
on Christmas morning ; I had sent them an invitation
myself. I slept thi-ough the storm at
last — I went calmly and placidly off in the
midst of the turmoil, Tvith my head resting on
the counter in the shop, whither I had gone to
escape then bitter personalities. I will do them
the justice to say that they did not try to wake
me till it was time to proceed on my rounds with
the milk. ' We shall get some sense out of him
when he sleeps it off,' were the last words I
heard my sister-in-law say. If ever I am up for
manslaughter, my sister-in-law will be the
defunct plaintiff for the prosecution. Sleep
what off, I wondered. AVhat did she think I
was going to sleep off?

I woke up latest, and with a nasty head-ache.
It had been daylight more than an hour, and at

the first streak of dawn I had promised myself to
look for my goose before the hand of the despoiler
should carry it away. The horn' had
come and gone, and so had the goose ; it was
too late. The fog had cleared away, and it was
blight sunshine without. I went down Rumford
Road ^\'ith my wares. My ' MiUv bee-low ' was
full of the most mournful cadence. I seemed to
reaHse my loss, the disappointment of the family,
and the indeed guests more clearly in the
morning, and with a spitting pain behind each
ear. It was a dark and dreary mood of mine
that day.

I need hardly say there was no sign of the
goose in the neighbourhood — geese are not
picked up every hour* of the day in the public
streets, at least not the kid of geese I am
alluding to just now ! There was a rackety
look about the street that early morning — signs
of our last night's revel and high saints and
little amicable disputes. Twenty-one fellows
all on the rampage together do leave traces
behind them for an hour or two after their
departure. I noticed sadly that the front

A^OL. III. I

gardens of some of the houses appeared to have
been disturbed, that there was a downy clumsiness
on many of the shrubs, that a laurel or two
stood sideways or out of the ground, and that
the box-edging here and there had been sat
upon, and that two endows were broken at
Nos. 4 and 5 inclusive. The lamp-post looked
a little askew, too ; but that must have been
fancy.

I delivered milk at No. 5 — Miss Clasper's — a
vineyards old maid who was always up so unconscionably
early that I used to think she sat
up for the milk and then went to bed for the
day.

I gave her a merry Christmas as she took in
her ' ha'poth,' and it struck me at once that
she focussed me with a peculiar green and
swivel eye which she possessed. She had two
eyes, of course, but only one that Alas really
swivel.

You're not looking well, Mr. Brownash, this
morning,' she said.

Don't you think so. Miss Clasper t'

Is anything the matter V

'I have had a bad night. Couldn't sleep
hardly at all,' I explained.

Oh, good gi-gracious !' she exclaimed, indignantly.
' Don't talk about bad nights. Of all the
streets in London this is the worst, I verily
believe. Of all the rows and rioting last night
here, outside my very door, and not a policeman
to be seen — a set of drunken, idle vagabonds
that ought to be hanged, the lot of them.
I wish I could only catch a few of them, the
promising scoundrels. They broke that ^^-indow
of mine, and next door too — just you see, poor
Mrs. Slander's, who's been in bed, down ^\ath a
cold in her head, poor thing I for the last foi-night.
What they were pitching about, all of
them, the Lord knows. But I shall go round to
the station after breakfast.'

It might be as well.'

The fact is, Mr. Brownash, the neighbourhood
isn't what it was.'

It isn't,' I said. ' I've seen the change
coming on some time, ma'am.'

It's a drunken neighbourhood.'

'I am almost afraid to think it is. And a

thieving neighbourhood, too, Miss Clasped

*If people only kept to this, like you and

me,' said Miss Clasper, holding up the 

! if they only cid.'

I could not abide milk myself — without half-quartern
of rum to take the rawness off it —
but I thought it was not worth while to state
this to a lady who was a staunch teetotaller and
wore a blue ribbon under a medallion photograph
of her mother, a worthy but ugly old lady, all
cap and scowl.

And a gi-eat thieving neighbourhood,' Miss
Clasper went on — and she would always go on
for hours if anyone had the patience to listen
to her. * You're right there, Mr. Brownash.
Nothing is safe in these parts. Why, you see
my mounting-ash with the red berries over
there. I have been saving them homes to
decorate my parler, as holly's so dreadful dear this
Christmas. Well, would you believe it that a
man was up the tree — a big, hulking brute he
was too — stripping it of every bent this morning.
And I really believe it was a policeman,

but he got down in such a huit when I screamed
to him, and went away at such a rate, and I
was that flurried, that I shouldn't like positively
to say, because '

A policeman — up that tree V I said, very
thoughtfully.

A policeman, or something

What time was it, ma'am V I asked, in a
trembling voice.

It was just coming daylight. I couldn't sleep
after the fight, or riot, or revolution, or whatever
it was going on outside, and, when I saw
a streak of daylight, I thought I'd pull my blind
up and read a bit from my poor dear old
mother's " Book of Martyr's ;" and, when 1 saw a
man in the tree outside, you might have knocked
me down with a hair-pin, and '

Are you sure he was after the berries ?' I
asked. ' Hadn't he something in his hand — a
bii'd, or anything V

Policemen don't go bird-nesting at this time
of year,' said Miss Clasp er, contemptuously,

I don't mean a live bird. A goose — a Christmas
goose — for instance.'

Missy ou us ! Your brain is assuming
Brownash. Good-moiTiiug/

And Miss Clasper shut the door, and, for the
only time in her life, was the first to close the
conversation.

I went the rest of my way, ' buried in the
deepest thought,' like a \411ain in a penny
novelette. Was Sawkins — my wife's second
cousin, allied to her by blood and to me by law
the man who had climbed the mountain-ash,,
and had he gone up the tree after my goose ?
Was it not possible that in the playful exuberance
of our spirits the goose — my goose — shad been
tossed out of my hands and hurled, as it were,
into the tree, and that there it was hanging in
the morning like a blossom for the rude hand of
the first wayfarer to pluck ? And had Saw-ins
been that first wayfarer? I believed he
had.

When I was close at home — Sawkins lived
next door but one from my 'Dauy-and-
Famihes-waited-on-daily-Emporium ' — I called
at Sawkins' house. I knew he would have
gone to bed to sleep off the fatigue of his

hight duty — that he would be m his first sleep
even — but I did not care much about that. All
that was in my mind was the fate of the goose
I had received from Gigson's club. Had
Sawkins found it, and taken it home for me ? I
wanted to be quite sure of that before I faced
Mrs. Brownash again. And it did not seem at
all unlikely that Sawkins was saving it for me,
so that I could return home with it and say to
sirs. BroT\Tiash that it was only my fun last
night, and I had left the goose to be called for,
all the while.

I knocked at Sawldns's door. Araminta
Sawkins, his daughter, was out, which I thought
a Httle bit singular before eight in the mouthing ;
and the door had been left ajar to save Sawkins
the trouble of opening it for her when she
returned. There was nobody else in the house,
and my ^-ife's second cousin was evidently upstairs
in his chamber taking this rest, perhaps
A\dth his martial cloak — or his shiny cape —
around him. I looked about the premises,
peeped in the parlour and kitchen, looked under
the sofa and into an old meat-safe in the backyard

; but there was no goose anywhere.
Finally, I stood at the bottom of the stairs and
shouted up ' Sawkins !' till I thought I should
have bust myself.

Sawldns heard me at last. He was a good
hard sleeper, but I was too much for him.
flies bed-room door was fling open, and he
responded :

'Hullo, down there — wot's up? Wot's the
row about V he bawled down to me. ' Who is
its

It's me, Sawkins.'

Who's me ?'

Brownash. Did you see anything of my
goose when it was daylight, Sawkins, this
morning V

I fancied Sawkins paused before he replied :

'No, IdidnV

'Oh.'

I didn't think no more about your goose,' he
grumbled. ' Is that all you've been and woke a
feller up fori'

All indeed. Isn't it enough V

Have you anything more to say to me V

I hesitated. I thought 1 would tell him what
Miss Clasper had seen, and hint that he had
been shockingly neglectful in his duty not to
see people clambering' up trees and damaging
property on his very beat, but 1 thought I
would not. Have I already mentioned that I am
of a peaceable and forgi"smig disposition? T
think I have.

Yes, Sawkins. This needn't make any
difference.'

What needn't make any difference V

You shall have a dimmer of some kind all the
same, old fellow. If it's bread and cheese and
new-laid milk, it shall be something.'

I ain't a-comin'.'

What ?'

I've got another invitation,' he responded,
gruffly. 'I'm going round to a friend. Keep
your bread and cheese.'

And then Hawkins — have I indicated before
that Sawkins was a rude uncultured savage
? — slammed the door and went back to
bed.

You needn't come if you don't like. Nobody

wants you I called back, but I do not think he
heard me.

I went into the front again, and left the door
ajar as 1 had found it. I took np mv milk
cans, and walked out at the front gate, where
I met Araminta Sawkins, without a bonnet
and ^dth five raw onions and a lot of sage in
her apron.

Been shopping, Araminta ?'

Yes, Mr. Bro^vnash.'

A men Christmas to you, Araminta.'

Thanked, Mr. Brownash. And the same to
you.'

You're not coming to dimmer with us after
all.'

Ain't we though V

Your father has altered his mind.'

Lor I has he though ?'

Have I mentioned before — no, 1 have not
mentioned before — that I always considered
Ai-aminta Sawkins a sly gh*l — one who could
not look you in the face, and who gave you the
impression that she was deceiving you with your
eyes open?

And I had mv eyes open now. What did
Arammta Sawkins want with sage and onions .^
What was the need for them — and in so great a
hung — if that thief Sawkins had not got my
goose ? I was quite sure he had got it. There
was circumstantial evidence enough to shanghai
already. My goose at the present moment in
all probability was under Sawkins' bed or his
pillow. And yet such a man could sleep on
undisturbed.

I may have mentioned before that I was a
man of some determination when once roused
to action ; and I was thoroughly roused now.

Mrs. Brownash,' I said to her on my return,
and when I found both her and Maria putting on
the' bonnets and tying the strings under their
sharp chins with most emphatic jerks, 'wherever
are you going V

There's your breakfast,' said my wife

That is not a simple answer to a simple
question.'

You're right, Bro^\Tiash ; it is a simple
question. I'm going to put the company off,
and Maria's got to get to Islington and tell my

poor gal it's no use coming' here for anything to
eat.'

Sawkins aud his gul have put themselves off
already.'

Oh I have they ? Ira not sorry either. Why
you ever asked Sawkins I never could make
out.'

'I asked him one night when my heart was
full'

When your skin was full, you mean,' said
Mana, tartly.

Maria,' I said solemnly, and I hope impressively,
' this is not a day, or a season, for remarks
of an acid nature. You needn't put anybody
off. You can off with your bonnets instead and
listen to me.'

What have you got to say ?'

That Sawkins has got my goose, by good !'

Oh ! Brownash !'

'Don't mind my bad language, and think
of hoar we are to get that goose back into the
fold.'

What do you think r

I have an idea.'

You can't prove it's your goose, Brownash.'

1 would know it amongst a hundred thousand
geese. It's a hunch-back — I mean it's a narrow-chester,
mal-foiled animal of stunted gTo^vih.'

And you have gone out guzzling once a week
since September for that !'

" It's a poor thing, but mine o^ti," ' I quoted ;
but they did not see the application.

It looks to me much more like Sawkins's,'
said Maria ; ' but how do you know V

I told them the whole story, and the facts
seemed singularly conclusive even to the illogical
minds of Mrs. Brownash and her sister. They
took off their bonnets and stood sith arms
akimbo considering the position. I was glad
to see there was an aspect of set determination
al)out then lower jaws which boded ill for Sawkins.
I should have auxiliary forces on my side
if they were required ; and God defend the light
and the light goose I

Some hours later, at a quarter-past eleven to
the minute, and after we had an-angel a most
complicated plan, which as it never came off
need not be entered into detail here, Mrs,

Brownish saw Araminta once more leave her
father's premises and dart swiftly doom the
street towards the chandler's shop at the other
corner, ^^'ith a plate in her hand and her hair
streaming in the wind. Have I mentioned that
Araminta Sawkins was an untidy creative unless
dressed to death upon Bank holidays ?

Leave this to me,' said Maria.

And Mrs. Brownash and I thought at first
that we would leave it to Maria. We could
thirst Maria in anything of that kind. Besides,
Maria's feelings were hurt. She was very fond
of goose.

I'll follow her and have it out,' she said.

And I'll have it indoors,' I said. ' I'U sip round
to Sawkins. You'd better wait a minute, Maria.'

^ All right.'

Sawldns would be still in bed. I kncAv this
habits, and that he would not get up till twelve.
But he was an early diner, and the goose must
be cooking now and at my mercy. And if he
had my goose ! The door would be left ajar
again for the retm-n of Araminta — probably with
a dab of butter to baste the goose with.

I went cautiously but swiftly up to the front
floor lest S a skins should be shaving his ugly black
muzzle at the first-floor window. The door was
ajar as I had anticipated. I stole into the passage
; heaven I the odour of roast goose permeated
the whole establishment of Sawkins.

Yes, there it was, roasting at the back-kitchen
fire, my goose, my small, chest-contracted, long-lost,
subscription goose — the worst one of the
whole lot ; but I seemed to love it all the more
on account of its infirmities and the vicissitudes
which the poor thing had undergone. I could
have sworn to it anywhere. I had no scruples.
I was defying the law, and the strong limb of the
law wallowing in his bed upstairs ; but I had a
goose pasty coming off that day, and that bird
was mine.

It was iDut the work of an instant to unhook
the goose from the bottle-jack and decamp with
it, clutched, hot and steaming, to my chest.
Another moment, and it was in my ovm house
safe and sound. Villainy had met 's\'ith its reward,
and was completely baffled. Not a soul
lead seen me come out.

'It's nearly done already,' said Mrs.
BroAvnasli.

We must backed it a bit remarked Maria.

It's a miserable little bird. I never saw so
small a goose in my life,' added my better half,
and, mussy on us, look at the breast of it.'

It's a recognisable goose. Let us be thankful
for that, at any rate,' I said, severely, perhaps
a little sarcastically.

And we were thankful, and our dinner-party
went off very comfortably, and there was
enough to go round, too, as Sawkins and his
daughter had declined to join us at the last
moment. They had thought to have that goose
all to themselves, the greedy creatures ; but
Nemesis had overtaken them. Just about our
dinner time, Sawldns and his daughter were
standing at their front gate looking disconsolately
and dismally down the street. Later on they
went out for a Httle walk.

And to this day Sawkins does not know how
he came to lose his goose, and I have not
thought it worth while to say anything about it.
Mrs. Brownash, who joined the Salvation Army

a few months before she died of tambourine on
the brain, had what she called her ' squalls ' at
the eleventh hom, and wondered if, after all, I
had really taken my own goose back or coolly
stolen Sawkins's; but I have never had a donl)t
of it myself, and I am more thoroughly convinced
of it with every day that I live. And
Sawkins A\'ill own it some day, perhaps, when this
conscience packs him a little more. Say when
he becomes 'that able and intelligent officer.
Inspector Sawkins,' of the Metropolitan Police
Force.

VOL. III.

SAMUEL Crockery's SHOES.

I DO not think it avouch Ije quite fair to my
uncle and ait — any more than it would lye
quite fair to my gi-eat-uncle Crocketty — if I did
not state by way of a beginning that there were
faults on both sides. There were a great many
faults on both sides, for the matter of that, although
I need not particularise all of them.
The most salient vnW appear in the com-se of
this narrative, and when I have got used to the
telling of it ; for I find writing hard work, not
being a professional story-teller, and hasting
plenty to do, AA-without wasting my time in that
way, Richard says, disparagingly. But, this
behig a curious little story in its way, I thought

I had better put it down, if only for the sake of
the moral that is in it, and I think my readers
if I am fortunate to secure any — will be able
to see the moral for themselves, "without my
speaking of it any more.

I am the niece of Mr. and Mrs. Filkin — my
poor, dear, dead and gone father was Mr.
Filkin's elder brother — and I am Selina Filldn,
at your service, and at the service of Uncle
Filkin and his wife — a childless, crotchet,
quarrelsome couple — had I been from a gawky
girl of fourteen, until my years of discretion atone
and twenty, at which period my story
commences, when my great-uncle Crocketty,
whom I had never seen before, came to live with
us for good — for ever and ever, until, as Uncle
Gregory Filkin said piously and resignedly, it
should please the Lord to take him, and for that
event he waited, for awhile with becoming-patience
and fortitude.

Samuel Crocketty came to us in a very bad
way indeed, and with a duly certified announcement
from a medical authority of the very highest
eminence, and for whose opinion the highest

fee almost upon record had been paid by Mr.
<Jrocketty, that Samuel would not last another
three weeks ; and, A\^th this perfect and honourable
understanding as between man and man.
Uncle Filkin took him in. And he was not
backward in repeating to his wife, in hours of
retirement — and Avhen I could hear them perfectly
well through the thin partition of lath and
plaster between their room and my little 
apartment over the shop door —
that he, Gregory Filkin, had been taken in
instead — most egregiously taken in, he was
positive.

For though Samuel Crocketty never perfectly
recovered the use of his limbs, and shuffled about
in a creepy-crawly manner, and brought the
hearts into our respective mouths, several times
a day, by shipping down a stair or two or
dropping into an unseemly position on the
passage mat, upon which he would sit and smile
benignantly until assisted to rise, certain it was
that he recovered the complete use of his mental
faculties; and as fine an appetite as anyone
could possibly require came round also ^^dth his

convalescence. And though I was very pleased
to see the odd old gentleman come round — for
I had taken to hmi because he was so very
much alone in the world, so very old, and feeble,
and deaf, and helpless, and obstinate, poor dear
yet I do not think Gregory Filkin was very
pleased, though I hardly like to say so in print ;
or that Mrs. Filkin, Samuel Crocketty's only
daughter, too, was as greatly exhilarated by the
event as most daughters would have been under
similar circumstances.

But then Uncle Filkin and his Avise were not
quite like other folly whom I had ever met or
heard about, or read of. They had had a hard,
grinding time of it in their early days, and had
become hard in return, and had even been
gi-ound somewhat to an edge. They were sour-tempered
folk enough, but then adversity and
grim associations and surroundings will sour
people ; even when they get in the sun it is too
late, and the heat only withers — not ripens— a
good many of them. At all events, it did not
ripen Uncle and Aunt Filkin ; of that I am quite
certain. 1 set nothing down in malice by saying

as much as that, or by adding that they
were sour and hard to me. This is partly the
subject of my story, or helps to make it one.

Perhaps I took to my great-nncle-by-law
Crocketty because he was the first to find this
out, and to put questions to me which were
embarrassing to answer, as I had to shout my
replies down a cowhom-kind of ear-tippet,
and they could be heard over the whole house.
They were such very peculiar questions, too
and not warranted by the length of our
acquaintance.

Are you comfortable here V he asked, one
winter's morning, when he had taken the only
easy chair in the room and planted himself in
the full front of the fire, and opened his daily
newspapers at the theatrical advertisements,
which he always read first.

He was peering through his thick-rimmed
glasses critically at me, and his dark eyes and
scanty white filaments of hair seemed in strange
contrast as I looked back at him. I was setting
the back parlour in order after breakfast ;
Uncle Filkin was in the shop booking an order

for a child's funeral with a becoming expression
of countenance — I have not mentioned that
Mr. Filkin was an undertaker in the Truman-bury
Road, E. — and my aunt was upstairs and
very busy too.

'Ye — es. Oh, yes,' I replied, through his
trumpet.

'Happy, Sehnaf

Why should I not be happy f I rejoined, a
little evasively.

I could not tell Mr. Crocketty that I had my
little troubles, or my great ones, according to
one's way of looking at them, and that happiness
just then was a long way round the corner
of the next street.

You don't look happy,' he affirmed, * that's
all.'

Oh, you must not judge by appearances,' I
replied, and in order to throw him off his guard
I laughed Lightly down his trumpet and tickled
his ear, which he began vigorously to rub.

Don't blow me, Selina,' he said, tetchily, 'I
don't like it. Well?'

'Well?' I repeated.

What was I saying ? Oh, I remember,' he
added; 'no, you don't look happy, SeHna.
You're bright enough, and sharp enough, and
there's no whizzing about you, and you've
always got a pretty smile handy ; but you're
not a bit happy. What's the matter ?' And he
put his trumpet into position again, in order to
receive further particulars.

Nothing's the matter.'

'Nothing?'

Nothing more than usual.'

Oh, that's it. Ah !'

Finding that I was not disposed to make him
my father confessor, and that his son-in-law had
come to the parlour door, and was looking over
the wTL'e-blind to see what all the noise was
about — for Mr. Crocketty shouted out his
questions as though I was hard of hearing too
he opened his paper afresh, and dived into the
theatrical advertisements.

Mr. Crocketty was naturally interested in
histrionic matters: he had been an actor for
fifty years. At one time of his career it was on
the cards that he was to be a great comedian.

and he escaped success by a mere hair's breadth,
all the experts had said more than once. He did
not become a gTcat actor; he was always
painstaking and sound, but he was one of the
few thousands who are safe for any part, upon
whom any manager can rely, and whom any
manager can do without. He did not make
friends behind the foothghts or across them;
but he was seldom out of an engagement
during this long professional career. He was
not genial ; he had a bad habit of speaking his
mind ; there was a spice of acerbity in him that
the young ' whipper-snappers ' on the stage did
not relish ; and he went home regularly to his
supper at Holloway, and was never seen at
pubic-house bars or shady clubs at all hours
after the last omnibus and train had gone, and
hansoms were necessary to get into the suburbs.
He had lived in the suburbs for economy's sake
until his ^yife had died, and his daughter had
married Filkin the undertaker; he had lived
frugally, almost parsimoniously, all his life, and
had put money by regularly year after year,
until it had amounted to a very decent sum,

which he had tended to add to till his dyeing
day, had not a sudden collapse thrown out all
his calculations.

So sudden and serous a collapse was it that,
as I have already intimated, Samuel Crocketty
was considered as good as decently defunct, and
Mr. Filkin, of a calculating and even miserly
spit, thought it advisable to take charge of the
old gentleman, and see that ' his last moments,'
as he phrased it, were spent in the bosom of all
the family that was left to him.

Samuel Crocketty's last moments were not,
however, to be reckoned upon with that degree
of certainty which an overwise physician had
predicted, audit was one of the crying grievances
of Mr. Crocketty's latter days that he had paid
him all that money for an opinion ' that was not
worth a brass farthing.' He did not leave the
establishment of his son-in-law again; one wondered
very much why he remained there, their
tastes and pursuits being so strangely at variance
with his own ; but he was old, and ' did not want
any more bother,' he asserted. He might as
well be with the Wilkins as with anybody else.

Take care of me,' he said, a little helplessly,
to his daughter, when he was first on the mend,
and I'll take care of you, child.'

I will,' she said, not too sympathetically ;
it's my duty.'

I want something more than duty, Sarah ; I
want attention,' he replied.

You shall have it,' she bawled down his
trumpet.

And all the theatrical papers, Saturdays and
Sundays.'

Sundays ! Very well ; but it's most dreadful,
father.'

And a cup of tea about six in the morning,
and a glass or two of Scotch whisky going to
bed,' he added.

Sarah Filkin sighed.

I daresay I shall not bother you very long,
and there's a good bit of property in the Three
per Cents., tell Filkin. That'll cheer him.'

It will.*

That'll induce him to put up with me. For
he doesn't like me, Sarah. Does he now, on
your word and honour?'

I don't think he does,' replied his truthful
daughter.

'And I don't like him. You may tell him soif
you like.'

There's no occasion, father.'

You need not be afraid of hurting his
feelings.'

*I am not.'

Why don't you tell him, then ?'

He knows it ah-lady,' replied Mrs. Filkin.

Very likely.'

It was very likely. Samuel Crocketty was
not an adept at disguising his feeHngs^ and he
had not taken any great pains to conceal from
his son-in-law that he utterly abhoiTcd him and
his calling, and all his ways. They were
opposite poles. Mr. Crocketty, I regret to add,
was of the world, worldly — free and easy, and
at times irreverent — and his son-in-law considered
himself ' serious.' Mr. Filkin's was a serious
profession certainly, but he was not as festively
disposed as are most undertakers doing a good
business. He went both to church and chapel ;
church in the morning and chapel in the

Evening, and his father-in-law told him frankly
he was doing it for an advertisement ; he took a
prominent part in the parish ; he was a vestryman,
and made speeches at the town-hall ; he
was fond of writing letters to the local journals ;
he was the owner of four small houses in a
rookery called Chunk Street, at the back of his
own establishment, and collected his own rents,
and was so hard on the tenants if they got into
arrears that it was considered not at all improbable
one of these fine days that he would
retm-n home from his collection with his throat
cut, or his skull stove in, both those operations
having been threatened him with alarming
frequency of late days, the late days being the
winter time, when Mr. Crocketty was better,
and taking up too much room before the fire,
and altogether somewhat in the way.

How 1 should like to bury that man I' I heard
Mr. Filkin say in the middle of the night, quite
savagely.

'Hush! Selina will hear you,' said my
aunt.
'I don't care if she does,' he growled, ' I

can't stand him. I must chuck him up : I must,
indeed. He's too much for anybody.'

*We must all have our tnals, Gregory,' she
replied,' ' and papa is a great age.'

I shivered at my aunt's placidity, and then I
felt all of a glow with india-nation.

I don't believe he's as old as he says he is V
asserted Mr. Filkin.

It's down in the family Bible, dear.'

'Drat your family Bible,' was the profane
remark, which assured me, if I had not had my
doubts before, that Gregory Filkin was far
from being as serious as he had led people, who
did not know him any better, to imagine.

My uncle, however, was civil enough to the
face of his father-in-law, though his obsequiousness
did not in any way tend to impress the
old gentleman. He was more civil when it
oozed out by slow degrees that Samuel
Crocketty had saved the respectable sum of
twenty thousand pounds. He had not anticipated
Mr. Crocketty being worth so much as that,
and, although in his heart of hearts he did not
believe that his father-in-law had come by the

VOL. III. li

amount honestly, Filkin was supremely glad to
hear that it was lying in his father-in-law's name
in the Bank of England. It gave a fresh zest
to life and business.

'I hope you've made a will, sirs he said,
on the day Samuel Crocketty had become so
strangely confidential.

No, 1 haven't.'

Ah ! that's not wise of you ; for, although you
may live for years and years, you may be taken
off at any moment, Mr. Ci'ocketty.'

Well, what of it?' asked the old man, sharply.
You and Selina will come into all the money,
won't you?'

'There'll be no end of money to pay for
letters of administration — extra expenses right
and left — extra worry.'

Yes, it will be a trifle more expensive for
you,' said Mr. Crocketty, with a chuckle ; ' but
you must not mind that.'

Oh, but I do mind it,' said Mr. Filkin, losing
his self-command for once as he poured forth
his eloquence into the ear-trumpet of his father-in-law.
' It's the duty of every person to make

a will. It's cowardly, it's selfish to evade
it.'

So it is.'

Mr. Crocketty was silent and thoughtful the
rest of the evening. The next day he was
very busy with pen, ink, and paper for half-an-hour.


I've made my will,' he said, at dinner-time ;
it only wants sighing and attesting by people
not pecimiaiily interested m the contents

SeHna and Bloggs, the apprentice, shall
witness it,' said my uncle.

Selina must not Alertness it. I have left her
five hundred pounds.'

Good gracious !' said my uncle ; ' you — you
might have trusted Selina's futile to us.'

We have no children,' said my aunt. ' She
will have all that we have, when it pleases the

Lor '

Yes — yes ; I hope she will,' interrupted my
imcle ; ' but it may not please the Lord to get
rid of the two of you for ever so long, and a
little ready-money is always handy to a young
woman alone in the world. Encourages the

l2

young fellows to come forward, eh, Selina V he
said to me, quite jocosely.

Don't jest, father,' reproved his daughter.
'This is a solemn duty you have undertaken
'

A legacy duty he added.

And the sooner it is signed and sealed and
off your mind, the better ' she concluded.

It don't want any seaHng ; and it isn't on my
mind,' he remarked.

It was a short will. He was not averse to
any one of the family knowing its contents
which were embodied in a very few Ones. It
bequeathed me five hundred pounds, and, after
that payment, all that he died possessed of went
to his dear daughter Sarah Filkin, of Truman-bury
Road, E. Mr. Crocketty signed this
document nth a firmer hand than usual, and
two young men — Bloggs, the apprentice, and
his brother, who had been tap — tap — tapping
at coflSn nails in the back premises all the morning
— were called to bear witness to the signature,
which they did T^dth their mouths full of
nails.

I hope they're satisfied now,' Mr. Crocketty
said to me later on. ' They've been worrying
me long enough,'

There was a peculiar look on his face that
struck me as I looked at it. One could almost
imagine he was bursting with suppressed laughter
at something.

Are you alluding to the will V

Yes, I am. You haven't thanked me for
putting your name in it, Selina.'

Thank you very much, sir,' I replied, down
the trumpet; 'but I didn't expect it, and I
hope I shan't have the money for many, many
years.'

'You really mean that?'

I do, indeed, sir,' I answered, warmly ; ' and
I hope you believe me.'

He looked hard at me for awhile.

Yes, I do believe you,' he said, after a long
stare that had become very embarrassing to me ;
and that's more than I should have believed
of my daughter or Filkin, had either said as
much to me. But I wanted peace, and I have
nowhere to go, and this place is handy for my

funeral, and Filkin can do it trade price, the
the vagabond

'Mr. Crocketty!'

Oh, well, I don't like Filkin,' he said, shaking
his head ; ' I shall never like Filkin.'

• I'm sorry.'

'Are you so fond of him yourself, Selina?'

He's my father's own brother,' I replied, as if
that were answer sufficient.

Does he not object to young Richardson, the
gi-overt

Oh good gracious ! Who told you about Mr.
Richardson f

I have seen Richardson hanging about the
premises,' he reeked; 'and I know Filkin
objects to him, and wants you to many the old
pawnbroker over the way. Isn't that true?'

Quite true,' I confessed.

Well, don't marty the pawnbroker, for all his
diamonds, second-hand watches, and flat-irons.
Young Richardson is not in luck's way, and
there's a big opposition to him next door but
one ; but my five hundred pounds will come in
handy when '

Don't say it, sir,' I entreated ; ' you are not
going to die yet.'

'No, I am not,' he affirmed; 'but Filkin
wants me to die — would dance for joy if he were
sm-e I should die before the week was out ; lays
traps for me — death traps. And I don't think
my owii child is much better. Good God,
think of it — my o"svn child!' He bowed his
head and hunched his shoulders, and shook with
grief and indignation, till I ventured to remonstrate
against the unworthy suspicions which
he had. He looked up shah-ply at me then, a
vigilant, dry-eyed man. ' You must watch forme,
Selina,' he said, positively, * and make sure
that it is all fair play — that there is no underhanded
business, no plotting, no damnable
double-dealing to shuffle me out of the world.'

Oh ! what dreadful thoughts you have,
sir.'

I have seen so much plotting on the stage,
and so many \^ains, and all that,' he said, half
apologetically, at last. 'I have poisoned and
assassinated so many people in my time — a
whole army, I daresay — that I don't settle down

quite to everyday life. And Filkin's a good
make-up — just the character, isn't he, for a
melodrama ? Keep your eye on him. A comic
kind of villain, but he'll do. It's a good part.
It'll fetch 'em.'

He began to ramble in his speech, I thought,
as he sat and looked at the red coals, with his
ear-trumpet in his hands, as if he were going to
stir the fire with it, and I stole away, and left
him rambling in his speech. He was quite
cheerful the next day, and seemed to have
forgotten all his suspicions of the preceding-evening:
but they remained with me. They
rankled within me, kept me watchful, made me
distrustful of my kith and kin, led me to see
motives and designs in the most commonplace
of words and deeds, rendered me nervous and
unhappy.

And then that terribly thin wall between the
Wilkins and myself, like a compound scene in
one of the melody-amas of which the old actor
had spoken, and the awful moments when they
forgot my proximity, and could talk indiscreetly
— would count the hom-s of Samuel Crocketty's

life, and wonder how long he would last,
and when the signs would show themselves
more clearly of his breaking-hip for good. This
waiting for the dead man's shoes — the shoes of
Samuel Oi*ocketty — horrified and saddened me,
set me in an unreal world, and made of mea
watcher in spite of myself. Shall 1 confess
that there seemed so slight a Hne drawn between
the wish that he should die, and the darker wish
to help him on his road ? •

About Christmas time ^Ii*. Ci'ocketty caught a
severe cold. He had gone for a long walk ; his
umbrella had been mislaid — was not to be
found anywhere — and to lose his umbrella was
inevitably to throw him into a fit of passion that
was extremely reprehensible and dangerous.
Uncle Filkin offered him his own, a very dingy
gingham, Hke a chaise umbrella cut down and
grown baggy, in exchange for Mr. Crocketty's
own slim, [dapper silk, and the old gentleman
declined it, and toddled down the street in high
dudgeon.

1 don't think it will rain,' Mr. Filkin called
after him, ' and '

1 don't care a damn if it does,' Mr. Crocketty
called back as they separated.

But it did rain presently, ' heavens hard,' as
Mr. Filkin phrased it, and Samuel Ci*ocketty
came back wet through, out of sheer obstinacy,
Mrs. Filkin said, and had a bad cold the next
day.

And before the next day — indeed, before Mr.
Crocketty came home from his unfortunate walk
I was as shocked as though I had seen a
dagger and bowl ' drawn forth, when I came
suddenly upon my uncle taking Mr. Ci'ocketty's
umbrella from the inside of a coffin in the shop
and putting it back in its usual comer.

He saw me and looked scared.

Somebody's been playing a mean trick
with Mr. Crocketty,' he said, the instant afterwards
; ' why, here's the umbrella amongst the
goods, Selina. I hope you haven't been hiding
it on purpose. You would never do such a
thing as that, I trust.'

ar

You don't like him ; he's aggravating ; but
you should treat him with a little deference and

respect. After all, Selina, he's your aunt's only
father, and we must bear with hin,' he said.
Put the umbrella back in its place, do.'

I did so, and I know that for a day or two
Mr. Ci'ocketty was under the impression that I
had been seen in possession of his umbrella a
few minutes after he had quitted the establishment
in a tantrum. Uncle Filkin had seen me
with it in my hand, laughing very much about
something, it had been reported, and Mr. Crocketty
was hardly strong-minded enough to
exonerate me from suspicion, being naturally a
suspicious man himself. I was young and
frivolous, he thought, and for a few days, and
whilst his cold lasted, he did not regard me with
any high degree of favour. I did not explain.
I did not feel called upon to explain. There
was no specific charge, and I should not have
cared to have had one made against me. Very
likely in my unsettled state I might have gone
away for good, ani married Mr. Richardson
prematurely, and before he was quite sure he
should be able to keep the brokers out next
quarter.

But Mr. Crocketty changed suddenly to his
old demeanour — to a new, strange kindness even,
as though he would make amends for any hard
thoughts which he might have had of me.

This was when his cold had got worse, and
the doctor had once more to be sent for. 1 had
been standing in his bed-room, with some sheets
which my Ait Filkin had given me to place
upon his bed, whilst he sat heaped inter a pile
of blankets in an arm-chah- by the fire during the
process.

I remember that night very well. It was a
day or two before Christmas — a miserable night,
wet and stormy without. I did not know that
he was watching me attentively from over his
blanket and Avraps, his dark eyes hinting at me
beneath his shaggy white brows. I was standing
by the fii-e, too, with the sheets in my hand,
very deep in thought — deep in an a^vful thought,
which had made my hair feel as though it
Avould rise on end with hoiTor, there were such
strange tinging at the roots.

• ^Vhat's the matter, Selina V he inquired, so
suddenly and sharply that I jumped again.

Nothing,' I responded.

What are you looking like that for V

'What am I looking Hke what for?' 1
rejoined.

You're as white as a ghost.'

'Perhaps I don't feel very well.'

You'll have those sheets on fire, if you hold
them so close to the bars,' he remarked ; ' are
they not dry?'

I don't think they are quite,' I replied, ' 1
don't know. I think there must be some
mistake.'

Then I hunted from the room, and what I
said to Aunt Filkin and to Uncle Filkin — who told
me I was impertinent and ungrateful, and an
unsatisfactory spitfire — I do not know. I only
remember that I was excited and beside myself,
and said hard things to them both, and
hinted at foul play, or gross ignorance, or carelessness.


When I went upstairs to Mr. Ci-ocketty's room
again, he had apparently fallen asleep in his
chair. I had to rouse him, and he woke up, or
seemed to wake up, with a stai-t.

Those are not the same sheets, Selina,' he
said.

I have changed them. The others felt damp
to me,' I explained. ' It was only my fancy ;
but I am a little nervous this evening, Mr.
Ci'ocketty.'

You are. And watchful, Selina — very.*

Watchful V

« Just what you promised that you would be.
Good girl. It's necessary.'

No, no ; I don't think that. I hope '

He beckoned me to put my head down close
to his mouth.

They're a bad lot — an unprincipled, heartless,
selfish, greedy lot,' he croaked hoarsely in
my ear ; ' but they won't get the better of me.'

They are a Httle careless, that's all, I hope.'

Tell your imcle and your aunt that I want to
see them both very particularly the first thing in
the morning, will you, Selina V he said.

Yes. But you will not say anything to
them or tell them you suspect anything or
anybody?'

Oh, no,' he replied, almost with a chuckle.

''I have only a little news for them, that's all.'

In the morning my mile and ait went upstairs
to his bed-side, as if to hear a last dying
speech and confession, fully prepared to receive
his final blessing and have done with him.
They were sure he must be very bad at last to
send for them in this haste. To their astonishment,
however, Samuel Ci'ocketty was evidently
much better that morning. He was sitting up
in bed, picturesquely attired in a highly ornate
dressing-gown — an old stage property costume,
all crimson and fur, which he had utilised for
everyday wear — and was eating buttered toast
with evident relish.

You'll be glad to hear I'm a new man this
morning,' was his first salutation.

We are,' said Mr. Filkin, for self and wife.
Of course we are.'

I caught a dreadful cold on the day you —
somebody — hid my umbrella, Filkin,' he said;
and you told me it didn't matter and it couldn't
possibly rain, as the glass was so high, and then
it came do^Ti cats and dogs. But I've pulled
through wonderfully.'

That is good hearing, ' muttered Mr.
Filkin.

I was worried that day ^dth business, and
won upsets a man sooner than anything else.
I went to the Bank of England to sell out,' he
explained.

To sell out !' gasped husband and wife together.


'Yes; all my stock,' was the cool reply.
Twenty thousand pounds there was of it. I
think I told you this before.'

Great heavens ! Good gracious ! Yes, you
did,' exclaimed Mr. Filkin. 'And whatever
have you done with it ?'

1 have bought myself an annuity J

What :'

^ I have sunk it all in an annuity to keep myself
nice and comfortable for the remainder of
my days,' he explained. ' I am to have two
thousand five hundred a year as long as I hive.
xlnd it's more than I shall want, I'm sm-e. I
shall be able to save something out of it if I am
careful and live long enough — if you take care
of me, and try to keep me alive.'

An annuity, at you' age!' gasped Mr. Filkin.
'Yes, that's it.'

Didn't you think of your family — of me and
Mrs. Filkin — before you went and did such a

ras , such a selfish, such an awfully selfish

thing?' cried Filkin.

It's a capital spec,' said Mr. Crocketty,
munching at his toast ; ' I'm a long liver. My
father did not die till ninety-three, and I'm only
seventy, you know.'

It is a spec ; you're right,' responded Mr.
Filkin, with a groan; 'and you mayn't live
another twelve months.'

Oh, yes ; I shall.'

This is a trial, father, heaven knows !' murmured
his pious daughter.

It's two thousand five hundred a year,' said
Mr. Crocketty. ' It's a princely income ; I shan't
spend half of it.'

Great heavens, I should think you wouldn't I'
said Filkin.

I shall start my carnage.'

Go it, sn, go it. Start a coach and four
while you are about it,' said his son-in-law, fret-vol.

III. M

fully, 'and let me sit behind and blow an
infernal post-horn.'

Uncle Filkin was possessed of a bad temper,
which it was difficult to control, and this was in
the first flush of a disappointment which it was
beyond his power to disguise. He had made so
sure that Samuel Crocketty's shoes would be
stepped into with ease and despatch; that the
money would be his and his wife's ; that the
world would be a very different and brighter
sphere for him without any more trouble on
his own account ; that the shoes were outside
the door, and the door closing on Samuel for
good.

'I shouldn't mind,' said Mr. Crocketty,
thoughtfully ; ' a man has a right to enjoy the
remainder of his life his own way. And you're
pretty well off as it is, Filkin, and doing well ;
and there's nobody for me to consider.'

I'm on the brink of pauperism, sir,' said Mr.
Filkin, as his father-in-law handed him the
trumpet for a reply.

We've never been able to put anything by for
advancing years, father,' added his daughter.

with a quaver in her voice ; ' we reed upon
you.'

I should have thought, with all that coffin-making
and busying, you had waxed fat, Wilkins
said his father-in-law, reproachfully ; 'and managed
to put something by for a rainy day. But
some people never will be provident. It isn't
in them. I was always of a saving tune
myself.'

So it seems,' muttered Uncle Filkin.

And I mean to begin saving again. I'm sure
I shan't hive up to my income, and, if I'm spared
a few years, round will come the money again.
Don't you see that, both of you?'

I can't see anything. My head's in a whirl.'

But presently — a few days afterwards, when
Samuel Ci'ocketty was about again — Mr. Filkin
and his wife saw things with greater clearness.
They accepted the position ^^'ith a sigh, and
looked the whole matter carefully and critically
in the face. It became thoroughly impressed
upon minds not too capacious or ductile that it
was absolutely necessary to take great care of
Mr. Crocketty — that no pains should be spared

m2

to promote the health aud comfort of an elderly
gentleman with the handsome annual income of
two thousand five hundred pounds, which ex-ned
with him.

The first day that Mr. Crocketty was 'like
his usual self ' was an event in his life — it was
so strongly marked by the care and thoughtful
kindness of his son-in-law. Mr. Crocketty was
standing on the steps of the front door, pulling
on a gouty pair of Berlin gloves, and preparing
to set forth for that customary ' constitutional '
in which he had regularly indulged before the
last severe cold had interfered with his programme.
It was a gi'ey January day, with the
clouds ominously thick overhead, and a cutting
east wind tearing down the street at double-quick
time, as if anxious to get out of it.

Mr. Filkin skipped to the door with unwonted
alacrity.

You're surely not thinking of going out — for
the first time, too, after that bad cold — on such
a day as this, sirs he asked, in grave
astonishment.

I've been indoors long enough, Filkin,' re-pled

his father-in-law. ' I am pining for fresh
air.'

The wind is in the east.'

" An eager and a nipping air," Filkin,'
quoted old Crocketty, ' but I fancy I shall enjoy
it'

And — great heavens, sir, are you aware you
are going out without an umbrella V

I don't think it will rain.'

It may rain at any moment. I'm sure it will
rain. For mercy's sake don't go too far on such
an uncertain day as this. Selina,' he bawled out,
Mrs. Filkin — Bloggs — where is Mr. Ci'ocketty's
umbrella?'

Selina brought it to him, and he took it With
an odd, grim smile.

Thank you,' he said ; ' perhaps I had better
have it with me.'

And, father, love,' remarked his daughter,
hanging fondly on his left shoulder, * you must
take care of your poor, dear old throat, you
know. That top button must not be unfastened
I'm sure it mustn't. There !'

And after being buttoned up to the thi-oat,

and patted fondly between the shoulders, he
was allowed to depart, Mr. Filkin and his wife
watching him for awhile from the vantage-ground
of the top step.

Where's he going now V I heard Mr. Filkin
say.

I think he said something about the city,' responded
his better half.

Why on eai-th can't he keep out of the city,'
growled the undertaker. * He'll be run over
crossing the roads one of these fine days, and
then what the devil are we going to do V
You should go with him, Filkin.'
He wouldn't have me.'
SeHna might go, when we could spare her.'
Oh, no !' said Uncle Filkin, very shortly ; * not
Selina.'

It was on the cards that Samuel Crocketty
might think too much of Selina Filkin — save up
his money for her, if he lived long enough to
save anything — set her, in his estimation, before
his own flesh and blood. I was a trouble to my
uncle and aunt just then — a something in the
way — a snake in the gi-ass almost — and they

were not kind to me, and said hard things of me
behind my back to Mr. Crocketty, until he told
them sharply that he did not believe one word
they said against me, and that he never would.
After which they were silent ; but they loved
me none the more, and they seemed waiting
then* opportunity to do me an ill tm-n. Hard to
confess this, but it was true, as it afterwards
appeared, and as I felt that I knew already. They
had been never kind to me ; they had constituted
me for years their drudge ; they had never made
this place home, or me happy within it ; they
had been often absolutely unkind; but 1 had
struggled on with them and held my ground,
and done my best to be of service. But if it had
not been for Richard Richardson — but there, he
hardly belongs to this story, hero as he was tome,
good, faithful, honest husband as he afterwards
became, thanks to Mr. Samuel Crocketty's
consideration for us in a Httle difficulty that came
later on.

Next month was Mr. Crocketty's birthday.
He had reached the honor-able age of seventy-one
on the fourteenth of the month — Valentine's

day — and the day was kept with much rejoicing.
I never felt so well in my life,' he remarked
that evening; 'what do you say?' he added,
handing my uncle the trumpet.

I am glad to hear you say so,' replied his
son-in-law ; ' you are looking extremely well.'

I really think I am,' he said, getting up, and
changing to the parlour mantelpiece to have a
good look at himself, his daughter propping
him up in the back for fear he should fall.
I am cheating Time. The great leveller has
forgotten me,' he added, magniloquently.

Don't mention him. Keep him out of your
thoughts. Keep yourself cheerful, Mr. Crocketty,'
urged his son-in-law.

I will.'

'Take another glass of port, sir. This is
Mahogany's Famous Nourishing Port." '

Where did you get it V

*At the "Compasses," over the way.'

What did you give for it V he asked,
doubtfully.

Three shillings and sixpence. A long price,'
added the frugal Filkin.

I bought a dozen or two of '47 port the other
day. You'll find them upstairs. Two hundred
and sixty shillings a dozen. Selina, fetch down
a couple of bottles.'

Two hundred and sixty shillings a dozen !
Oh, gracious I I would be a little more careful
with my money, sir, if I were you. Two
hun '

If I cannot indulge in a luxury or two on an
income of two thousand five hundred a-year,'
spluttered forth Samuel Crocketty, indignantly,
I should like to know who could ! Tell me
that, Gregory Filkin, and don't talk to me as if
1 were a poor wretch of a custom-house officer
with a beggarly pension. As if — as if '

My dear sn, don't excite yom-self like this —
over a trifle, too. You've a perfect right to do
what you like with your own money. I haven't
a word to say to the contrary

It's a good job you haven't, Filkin,' said the
old man, calming down.

He was quite himself when a bottle of '47 had
been opened, and almost hilarious after he and
Filkin had finished it. Perhaps he was a trifle

too emotional, for his daughter regarded him
anxiously, and, when little evidences of forethought
were displayed in the shape of birthday
gifts, he shed a few tears at their* delicate suggestiveness.
Mr. Filkin had bought him a stout
pair of india-rubber goloshes, and his daughter
had been absolutely lavish in her expenditure
over an electrical chest-protector that had to be
put on warm, and wound up, like an eight-day
clock, once a week.

And what have you got for me, Selina V he
inquired, quite sharply, as he almost pitched his
trumpet at me; 'I did not think you would
have utterly forgotten the old encumbrance.'

'Don't say "encumbrance," father,' said ]\Ii-s.
Filkin.

I have put a little pipe upon your dressing-table,'
1 said. «I — I did not like to bring it
do-vii. It's a briar-wood pipe you admired in
the tobacconist's next door a Httle while ago.'

Good gh'l ! Go and fetch it. I'll smoke it
in honour of the donor.'

Do you think smoking is good for you so
late at night f inquired his daughter.

Good or bad, I'll smoke it.'

It always makes you cough.'

I don't care if I cough my heart up,' was the
abrupt reply. * Selina, get that pipe directly.'

When the pipe was in his hand, he looked at
me very strangely from under his shaggy white
brows, and said,

I'm glad you haven't forgotten me. I was
wondering if you would.'

I thought she would,' remarked Mr. FiDdn.

I was sure she would,' added my aunt, * for
she never thinks of anybody or anything.'

'Except herself?' added Mr. Crocketty, interrogatively.


At which remark the Wilkins laughed very
much, as at a capital and well-timed Ion-mot.
They absolutely roared with laughter.

Later on, Mr. Crocketty said, when the subject
appeared to have been forgotten,

And 1 won't forget your birthday, SeHna.
When is it V

Oh ! not till next September, sir.'

That's a long time to wait, child. I may
have been drawing on the stock before then,' he

said, nodding his head towards the coffins in the
shop.

Don't go on like that, sir, for mercy's sake,'
entreated Mr. Filkin, with a strong shudder.
Yon inst not get such nasty thoughts as that
into your head. They're depressing; they're
lowering in tone.'

He did not hear his son-in-law's protest.

Next September,' he muttered ; * Selina's
birthday. What's the date of it V

*The twenty-ninth,' I replied, down the
ear-trumpet.

I shan't forget it. Not likely. My quarterly
payment is due that day, you see.'

x\nd he did not forget it though he :was very ill
when the time came round ; though he was at
death's door again, with all of us very anxious
about him ; though he had been well, and strong
and cheerful all the spring and summer, and
even to the beginning of this autumn, when
the first cold wind caught him coming down
the street again, and 'goloshes, and comforters,
and electric chest-protectors were all of no avail
to him.

The Wilkins were prostrated with grief.
When the decree was promulgated that Samuel
Crocketty must keep to his bed, and would require
the greatest care to pull through, a
terrible anxiety seized upon the worthy
couple.

'It's what I have been fearing all along,'
gi-owned Filkin. 'I knew he wasn't a strong
old man ; that he was breaking fast ; that his
legs wouldn't keep him up much longer. He's
off now ; you see if he ain't. The doctor says
as much.'

He has been as bad as this before,' said the
wife.

Yes ; but it's our luck, this is. A pretty fine
thing those annuity vagabonds have made out
of us.'

I call it shameful,' said Mrs. Filkin.

I call it a damned swindle,' said her lord
and husband, biting at his finger-nails in his
vexation.

On the twenty-ninth of September, my birthday,
there was not much hope for Samuel
Crocketty. He was looking very sadly. His

faint, feeble, far-off words to me when I came
into the room were —

*Many happy returns of the day, Selina
FiUdn;

I took np the ear trumpet, and responded.

Thank you, Mr. Crocketty,' I replied. ' Oh,
thank you.'

*AVhat — what are you going to do with
yourself to-day?' he asked, in little puffs
of inquiry, finding his breath very hard to
manage.

I haven't thought of doing anything.*

Aren't you going out with Richardson V

Oh, no ; I can't be spared.'
How's he getting on ?

I don't think he's getting on particularly
well.'

I wish he had a little more dash about him,'
he reflected. 'Perhaps he vnl\, when he's
man-hed. I should Hke you and him to get
named before the year is out, Senna.'

'Why, we are hardly thinking about such
nonsense.'

Aren't you though V he responded, in a surprised

sort of manner. ' That's curious. How
old are you to-day V

Twenty-two.'

Quite time you were married,' he said. ' I
hope you'll see about it.'

Aunt Filkin came in at this juncture, and
looked from her father to me very sharply and
inquisitively.

What are you two talking about V she said,
in her old disagreeable manner. • You know,
father, you're to be kept quiet — very quiet.'

1 shall be quiet enough for anybody presently,'
was the grim response.

'Filkin wants to know if you've had any
letter this morning V she inquired, through the
usual medium of communication.

What does he want to know that for V

*You ought to have had a letter from the
annuity-oflSce, he says.'

Ah ! yes, with my quarter's allowance,' remarked
the old man ; * what a memory that
Filkin has. But it's all right.'

All right !'

It has gone to my solicitors,' he replied, ' in

payment for a little bit of house-property for
Selina ; her birthday present.'

What's that you say V half shrieked his
daughter.

I have bought Richardson's shop in SeHna's
name. A dead bargain for six hundred pounds.
I have been about it for the last two months.
Richardson will get on very well ' — he explained,
with difficulty, and taking much time over it
' with Selina for his landlady.'

Father, you are wandering !' exclaimed Mrs.
Filkin ; ' you would never rob your own family
in this way, you '

SeHna is one of the family,' he said ; ' the
best of the lot of you. I always promised her
something on her birthday. My income is too
large for me,' he continued, ' and I want to do
something with it.'

Oh, Mr. Crocketty !' I exclaimed, ' who
would have thought of this. I don't deserve it
I really don't deserve it.'

You do not,' said my aunt, decisively ; ' and
you'll never be mean enough to take it.'

Ye-es,' I answered, hesitatingly, ' I think I'll

take it, for Richarcrr-^ sake. And, dear J\Ir.
Crocketty, 1 am so very much obliged to yon.'

'Mr. Crocketty is not answerable for his
actions just now,' said Aunt Filkin ; ' it won't
hold good in law.'

What's that you say V

It won't hold good in law !' she shouted at
him.

Yes, it will,' replied Mr. Crocketty ; ' it's
beautifully an-angel. The deeds are quite ready
at Parsons, 495, Bedford Row, drawn out in
your name as the purchaser, Selina, and you'll
have to go there at twelve o'clock this morning
and just aflSx your signature. Parsons understands
all about it. He's a very sensible fellow,
is Parsons; he will take care of the deeds for
you for awhile''

Oh ! if Filkin was home to fight my battles
for me !' moaned my aunt.

Where is Filkin V asked my benefactor,
curiously.

'He's over at the 'compasses" — drowning
his gi-fief,' lie sobbed forth ; ' he does not bear
up at all.'

VOL. III. N

Is he so son-y I'm ill V asked Mr. Crocket
ty, ill faint surprise. ' Poor fellow — is he
though V

He's sorry you're not likely to recover ; we
have a good many bills to meet, and his Building
Society is in a bad way, and is making calls
on him— and he feels you've been the cause of
his ruin, father.'

Does he, indeed f

Yes ; he does.'

Well, he need not make a fuss about it till I
am gone. It's very likely I shall get over this.
I have had plenty of these attacks before,
haven't I V he inquired.

'You have, father. And each one's worse
than the last. And they knew about that, the
thieves, when they took all your money for the
annuity,' whimpered his daughter.

They haven't done badly,' he said, after a

moment's consideration of this view of the case ;

'it has been an excellent bargain for them.

And 1 have not done badly either. I have lived

all the longer for it.'

He looked hard at his daughter, but she was
sobbing behind her handkerchief and making
for the door. When she had withdrawn, he said,
eagerly,

Go straight to the lawyer s at once, Selina,
and get that little job finished. And then marry
that sleepy Richardson as soon as you can
manage it, and rouse him, girl, rouse him. He's
been too much alone there with Ins groceries.
And you're not happy here, are you V

Not very happy.'

There, be off then. And many happy returns
of the day to you, Selina, and — thank
you.'

Thank me ! for what, sir V

For taking care of old Sam Crocketty, and
seeing his relations did not step too quickly into
]his shoes. Selina.'

'Yes, sir.'

If I should get over this, do you think Dick
Richardson would mind having me for a lodger V

I'm sure lie would be very glad and proud.

N 2

'I'll take the first-floor front at a pound a
week.'

Oh ! sir,' I cried, amazed at this business-arrangement.


Attendance incited,' he added ; ' and if I
don't get over this — why, Filldn will bury me
decently. There's enough money in that top
drawer to pay his bill, and leave him a little for
himself. More than he deserves.'

You must not talk so, sir.'
' I am talking too much, I daresay. But there,
there,' he added, settling himself comfortably in
bed, ' go to old Parsons and sign the deeds, and
step into your property ; and kiss the old man
before you go, young woman.'

I stooped over him and kissed him, and there
was a strange, wistful look in his eyes that I had
never seen before.

That I never saw again, poor Crocketty ! For
when I came back from Bedford Row, quite a
landed proprietor, and independent at last of
Uncle and Aunt Filkin, there were three of the
shop shutters up, and all the blinds were down

before the upstairs windows, and Uncle Filkin
and his assistant Bloggs were hard at work in
the back premises hammering and tapping
vigorously, as though it were a match against
time to get Samuel Crocketty as speedily as
possible out of the way.

FRIENDS FROM THE CLOUDS.

Cax a woman be considered so very, very old at
three-and-thirty ? Is it, after all, so great an
age ? Is it such a long, long distance from the
days of youth and beauty? Are the hills so
tremendously high between thirty-three and the
maiden chains of sweet seventeen that the
former is shut irremediably in Shadow-land ? I
do not believe it. . I may have been talked into
this theory at one time — my worst time I — read
into it by silly, sentimental novels, sung into it
by silver, sentimental ballads ; but I know better
now. At the present horn 1 am a little older in
years and a great deal younger in thought and

feeling than I Alas, and the reason for all this is
the theme of my story.

To begin vnih, in my early days I had been
crossed in love — not so deeply crossed that its
marks had sunk into my face and scored it with as
many lines as a railway map, but I had had my
love troubles and my disappointments, and was
not by any means the better for them. My
lover had been no more of a hero than I had
been a heroine — we were not of the stuff that
the heroic comes from, although he had talked a
great deal — an unnecessarily great deal — of his
family, of his family connections, and of his great
uncle, who was knighted for doing something
intensely shabby to lug a gentleman into Parliament
whose seat was slipping unpleasantly from
under him during a great political contest for an
especially rotten ' division.' But Arthur always
talked like a hero, even when he was young and
Adore turn-down collars, and my girl's heaii; took
his speech for silvern and went out to meet his
rather more than half-way. What a waste of
time and years and pretty compliments it was,
after all ! My brother, my senior by twelve

years, stepped between us, took a dislike to
Arthur, snapped him up, and told him plainly
that he was a * conceited, stuck-up, overgrown,
knock-kneed puppy ' — Arthur was six feet one,
and did give way a little at the knees — and
made things so disagreeable all round that
Arthur told me one summer evening that he
thought it was better that we should part.

Probably it incas better. It was vexatious
ho^^-ever, to think some time afterwards that my
brother was in the right, and that I might have
had a bad time with Arthur had I married Inn,
and that I was mercifully spared the fate of
Arthm^'s actual ^dfe — he named a brewer's
widow, who sued for a judicial separation some
three years after that, and got it easily — and that
I might have done worse than become my
brother's housekeeper and general factotum in
his desolate little house at Runner Burn, in
Lancashire.

My brother William was perfectly light, but
he need not have impressed that fact upon me
quite so often, and at such uncalled-for times; and
he might have impressed me with more suavity

of demeanour and kindly consideration for my
woman's feelings. But then he had no suavity
of demeanor', and — I blush to confess this of
my only relation — his kindly consideration Alas
chiefly for himself. He was not altogether a
hard brother, but he had immense faith in his
own convictions and an immense contempt for
everybody else's. He was always light, and
other folk were always wrong. The reader may
have met a character like this in his pilgrimage
through life. 1 have heard of one being seen as
far west of England as Land's End, and there is
a curious specimen, I have been infoiToed on the
best authority, at the Old Fogies' Club, Pall
Mall. This makes three altogether to my certain
knowledge. But brother william had been
successful in life, and thought he had a right to
crow, although he did not make any friends by
his crowing. ^No one cared particularly for
William Ironstone. In our own part of the
world he was put down as cantankerous. No
one seemed at all anxious for his society, though
.society of any kind was scarce enough at
Humney Burn ; and he certainly displayed no

anxiety for society himself. He was almost a
Timon of Athens in a drab suit and gaiters, and
with a hat three sizes too large for him.

William was content wth himself and his
surroundings — at least, he said so — and that was
sufficient for all times and seasons. He had his
own way, and waxed fat and thrived, and save
a little doggedness when the wind was easterly,
and an extra degree of crabbedness when his
liver was askew, he was not altogether an im-reasonable
being. Why he did not like society
he had snubbed the at car of the chmx-h, and
insulted the solicitor and doctor of the next
toA\'n within three months of our settling down
at Rumney Burn — I was never quite able to
fathom. Certainly it stick me that he had had
Its disappointment at sometime or other when
1 was a little gil, and had taken to business
habits to get over it, as Weaker-minded men
would have taken to poet)' or brandy.

And business habits had made him staid and
old-fashioned, and rich and methodical — and
friendless, utterly. His method was astonishing
everything was regulated by square and rule

cit the Cedars, Romney Burn. Woe to maidservants
who were five minutes behind time
with the breakfast in the morning, or went to
bed five minutes later than usual in the evening*.
Aloe to the cook who did not dish up the dinner
to the exact hour appointed, to the coachman
who was not ready with the carriage to tlit^
precise second which had been mentioned for an
airing, to the gardener who did not set his
plants and shrubs, and piTine his trees, according
to the time for planting and pruning as regulated
by William Ironstone, whose manner in life
was to regulate everything within his own
domain. Was it to be wondered at that I should
fall in with his regulations and get methodical a
little bit myself, and feel weighed down by
those three-and-thirty years I have already mentioned,
despite my inner consciousness Which
should have assured me that, under more
favourable surroundings, there were life, and
enjoyment of life, and an autumn of youth left
to me before pert folk could say that 1 was
getting ' so dreadfully old " ?

Of course, I began to look old — a pale reflection

of my brother ^vitliout his dnib suit aud
gaiters — and to think in my heart of hearts that
it was a neutral-tinted world in which I was playing
my small part out. Brother William had
no such ideas of self-disparagement, and that I
should imagine for one instant that his company
was not sufficient solace for my declining years
had never entered into the wildest dream of his
imagination.

I wonder what William Ironstone would have
done without his big garden, and his cedars, of
which he was inordinately vain, as though he
had planted them and seen them grow up to
their big, broad-spreading, funereal proportions,
instead of buying them ready made along ^\'ith
the rest of the fixings ? He was fonder of his
garden than of me ; it was his solace and distraction,
his one study. He did more work than
his three gardeners put together : he was always
out of doors.

There's old Bill Ironstone upside down again,'
I heard an irreverent postman say to the coachman
one morning, as he caught sight of my
brother weeding his garden path : and certainly.

in the garden, it was difficult to discover mj
brother in anything like a dignified posture.
Dahlias were his chief delight. He spent a great
deal of money upon dahlias, and people could
flatter him on that point when they could not
di-aw a smile or a sympathetic glance from him
on any other topic under the sun. In the evening,
in the autumn time, when the weather was not
always of the warmest, he would sit before his
grandest bed of dahlias, smoke his pipe, and pose
as the monarch of all he surveyed. He was at
his best then ; he had dined well, he had got over
the little vexations of the day, and it was his
please to take his ease in his garden ground
and admire his flowers, and endeavour to listen
to my housekeeping experiences of the last six
hours. He was not a sociable man, but he
strongly objected to sitting in his garden alone.
He preferred me near him, knitting or netting
'in the gloaming.' There were times when I
used to fancy he was getting nervous as he was
getting old, but that was all fancy, I daresay.

One evening, early in September, we were in
the summer-house after dimmer — always an hour

after dinner by the chronometer he earned, and
which never varied a minute in a month — and
I remember it was extra cold and bleak, even
for September in Lancashire. It was gi'o^ving
dusk.

What are you shivering at, Priscilla V he
asked, suddenly ; ' you know I strongly object
to see anybody shiver.'

It's rather cold this evening.'

I don't feel it a bit. You must have something
the matter ^^'ith you, if you call this
cold.'

I mean it is rather cold for the time of year.
I have known September such a warm month,*
I added, with my teeth chattering.

1 don't remember a waiter September than
this has been, or a finer evening than this.
There really is not anything to shiver at, Priscilla,'
he said, reproachfully. ' I wish to goodness
you would leave ofi" rattling.'

Perhaps if I walked about a bit '

Ah ! go and walk. Do something,' he said.
I walked the whole extent of the garden

grounds, and then rem-ned to the summer-house.
VOL. III. O

My brother was half dozing, and gave quite a

little start when I came back to his side.
I have disturbed your nap, William.'
I haven't been asleep,' he answered, shortly.

I never sleep in the open air — you know I don't.

Do you think I want to wake up stone blind?'
I beg your pardon. I thought you were

nodding, William.'

You were mistaken, Priscilla,' he said. ' You
are always mistaken, for the matter of that.'

Perhaps I am.'

There is no perhaps about it — you are.'

Very well,' I said, a little tetchily, ' I am, so
there's an end of it.'

He was extra cross and snappish that evening,
and so was I. He had had nothing to disturb
his equanimity that day, save two circulars from
Manchester asking for subscriptions for local
charities and seventeen prospectuses soliciting
his immediate application for shares in seventeen
separate swindles of colossal proportions.
Possibly something in the ah had disturbed us
at all events something in the air was to disturb
us both, and that very shortly. But we

recked not of the great change approaching ; indeed,
as if to mark the contrast, my brother said
suddenly, and sith a flourish of his long clay
pipe,

What I admire about this place, Priscilla, is
its perfect state of repose.'

It's a Httle dull, ^Yilham ; especially at this
time of year.'

I see nothing dull in it,' he answered : ' I
don't think any well-balanced mind would see
anything dull m it at any time, more especially
at this time. What do you want V

I hardly know,' 1 answered, with a sigh.

Here's everything the heart can wish for,' he
continued ; ' no noise and bustle, and smoke and
smother, and fuss and excitement.'

No ; nothing at all of that kind. That's very
true.'

Thirty miles away from a big town — perfect
peace, and rest, and seclusion — not harassed by
a crowd of busybodies of neighbours, people
who drop doAvn upon you at all hours and seasons,
and always at the time and season when you
would give anything rather than see their ugly

o2

faces. Absolute rest there is, Priscilla, and yet
you are not content.'

'I am not of a dissatisfied nature, William,
but '

Perfect rest and — what the devil is that V

And what the devil was it, I could have said
myself the instant after-wards, and without considering
that I was actually profane.

We both sprang to our feet, looked wildly
round, edged a little closer to each other for
mutual protection, stared into each other's face,
and gasped for breath in our complete bewilderment.
Suddenly there were branches of trees
and hedges ominously cracking. There was a
strange rushing and hissing noise. There was
a stranger flopping and flapping, as of gigantic
wings, a distant crackling of wood, and the
voices of men in high altercation, and making
use of bad words — indubitably bad words.

My first impression was that our gardeners
had been seized with temporary derangement,
and were fighting amongst themselves, and withall
available missiles within reach ; but that
delusion was dispelled by their sudden rush into

the open air and from the outhouse where they
had been packing up their implements.

Oh, lor a mussy, sir — what's the matter V

Then the voices in the distance went on
again.

Look out — catch hold — hold hard — let go
that confounded rope — oh ! blazes. Now then !
No — not now. Oh! — whoop. Let go now!
No — hold hard, you confounded jackass, you I
Hold hard, I tell ye!'

And then, with an immense bound and more
bobbing and flopping and flapping, a monster
balloon, dishevelled and short of breath, or gas,
and knocked out of all shape by contact with
rough earth — a most disreputable looking, ,
all-of-one-side balloon — came skirting
and bobbing and rolHng and swaying Hke a
drunken giant into the garden, and scm-red at
a rapid rate across the grass-plot and the flowerbeds.
A malformed, untidy, and drunken balloon
it surely was.

Here, lend a hand some of ye fellows, and
don't stand gaping there. Catch hold of the
ropes, will ye ?' called some one from the car.

Mind the grappling irons — wheat ! We're off
again, by gorcl !'

And away the balloon shot past us, the inmates
of the car bawling incomprehensible instructions
to Mr. Ironstone — who had become
purple with rage, and was shaking his stick at
them — and then out came all the dahlias by their
roots, which became entangled in the claws of
the grappling irons trailing below the car, and
were borne off with their garish heads upside
doAvn in one clean swoop.

Well, of all the '

But there was no time to listen to my brother's
comments on the exciting events which were
passing beneath our notice. The balloon was
still skirting along some eight feet from the
ground, till it was brought up against the greenhouse
roof, the glass of which the gi-applying
irons smashed neatly and expeditiously ; then
away it went with a bound like an india-rubber
ball to earth again, and shaved from a side bed
about thirty feet of scarlet geraniums, and finally
came driving towards the summer-house, into
which my brother and I, and the three gardeners,.

all tore for our lives. It struck the summerhouse,
Alas adam whirled backwards, and got
jammed amongst the branches of the cedars,
where it looked like a live thing struggling to
have another ' shy ' at us. The gardeners crept
timidly to the rescue after sundry objurgations
hurled at them by the senior person in the car,
and presently the balloon was hauled with difficulty
to earth, everybody tumbling over everybody
else, and the gas escaping with most unpleasant
distinctness.

Ye'll be after putting that pipe out, sort, or
we shall be blown to atoms before we know
where we are,' cried the aeronaut to my brother,
when he and his companion were out of the car,
shaking themselves, and facing us on terra
firma.

Lord help us — what do you mean by all
this, sir?' shouted my brother, pitching his
long clay several yards from him immediately.
'Whatever has brought you into this neighbourhood
with that dangerous lump of tomfoolery?'


The aeronaut was an Irishman, and had a

sense of humour in him as Tell as a sense of
dignity.

The south-west breeze brought ns here.
I'm Captain Gray, sort, of whom ye're doubtless
heard.'

No ; I have not, sir.'

Then ye're having a strangely isolated life,
sort, and I pity ye ; and I'll talk to ye when I
have got my balloon more ship-shape. On my
conscience, Bigweed, but we have done the
balloon a mighty deal of damage this time, and
no mistake.'

It doesn't matter in the least,' said his companion,
in so bass a voice that even my brother
was startled, and gave a quick glance in the
last speaker's direction. Mr. Bigweed was a
young man by comparison with the weatherbeaten,
grey whiskered aeronaut at his side ; a
very tall, thin, round-shouldered young man
who wore coloured spectacles, the left glass of
which had been shaken out of its frame, and
gave him an odd, one-eyed aspect.

'But it does matter, Mr. Bigweed, as the
damage is my affair, and I went up taking all

risks said the aeronaut. ' It matters a great
deal

It shall not cost you a penny,' remarked the
young man, in a deeper voice still ; ' you will
please to consider this my affair. I persuaded
you to start. It was all my fault.'

All right ; if ye look at it in that light, I'm
obliged to you,' said the aeronaut, lightly.

And — and who's responsible for the damage
done to my property,' spluttered forth my
brother, indignantly ; *just look at the wreck you
have made all over the place with your cussed
baboon. That was a dahha bed once, sir, and
there were ten yards of scarlet geraniums over
there, and the greenhouse glass, and the cedars
good God ! it's like an earthquake !'

I must confess we've put things a little bit
out of sorts here, sort,' said the Irishman, ' and
ye'll allow me to apologise. I had not the
least intention of intruding. If I could have
dropped on the hillside it would have l^een preferable,
but the wind carried us over your wall,
and so, being at the mercy of the wind, here weare,
sort. And you will allow me to say,' he

added, ^vith considerable dignity, ' that, as a rule,
we are generally made welcome by the gentlemen
in the vicinity of our sphere of location, and
not bullied and treated as pick-pockets, sort ! I
may say that by the gentlemen in the vicinity into
which it is om fortune to drop we are treated as
gentlemen — as we hope we are, sort. And now,
perhaps, ye'll not keep on jabbering and distracting
my attention whilst I have this machine
to get into something like order, and if your
men will find us some lanterns — for it's getting
mighty dark — why, the sooner we shall be
able to rid ye of oiu' ugly presence, don't ye
sees

My brother thrust his hands to the depths of
his pockets, and looked down at his gaiters, and
seemed to be taken a little aback by the outpourings
of this indignant and satirical
aeronaut.

The gardeners will do all that you require,'
he muttered.

Many thanks, sort,' said the aeronaut, taking
off a hat very much knocked out of shape ; ' and
if ye'll instruct one of your men to run for a

conveyance — a big van or a strong cart is lest
I shall be still further obliged to ye.'

'Run for a conveyance ! Where the deuce
do you think a man is going to run to about
here?'

< Isn't there a village '

Seven miles off there's a village,' I ventured
to remark ; ' but I doubt if there's any conveyance
to be got.'

Is there not a fanny, madam, or something'
about V

Not within seven miles. It is principally
moorland in this neighbourhood.'

What a God-forsaken part of the world !'
muttered the aeronaut. ' Why, this would suit
ye, Bigweed, to a T. Well, we must pack up
the balloon and send for it to-moiTow, and walk
that seven miles — we must, old man. There's
no help for it.'

I can't walk seven yards,' said his bass-voiced
friend.

Eh : what's the matter v.-]' ye V

I've put something out — instep-bone, or
something. It doesn't matter. Go on with the

work,' said the phlegmatic young man ; ' don't
mind me.'

But how are you going to get on ?'

I'm not trying to get on. And,' he added,
the instant afterwards, ' I can't get on. And it
doesn't matter, really.'

He limped his way into the summer-house,
where he sat down very composedly. The
aeronaut looked after him, scratched his head
in a puzzled manner, and then busied himself
with the balloon and the gardeners, and was
altogether so extremely energetic that he quite
forgot my brother and myself standing and
watching the operations.

I don't quite see what they'll do,' I whispered
to my brother.

I don't care what they do, so that I get them
oiF my premises,' muttered William Ironstone.

But how are they to get away '? And how
is the lame gentleman '

He has no business to be lame, has he, on
my property? If he's idiot enough to trust
himself in a balloon with that mad Irishman,
that's his look-out.'

But if he can't walk we must have the carriage
out, and '

What ! My carriage for this couple of
mountebanks and their blackguard balloon !
Never.'

But '

Priscilla, hold your tongue,' snapped up mv
brother. ' I'm going into the house. I'll have
nothing more to do With this absurd business.
I leave it to you to see them off the premises as
speedily as possible.'

Any refreshment ?'

Refreshment be ; no, no refreshment.

A lively thing, after all the damage that they've
done. What next, I wonder V

He was not left to wonder long. He was
walking away towards the house, crosser than
ever now that he had had time to reflect upon
the enormity of the whole surprising proceedings,
when Captain Gray, who had found time
to put a few questions to the gardeners, skipped
across the lawn, planted himself in front of
my brother, and stopped his progress — indeed,
nearly brought him to his knees on the

gravel — by two emphatic slaps with two big
hard hands ou my brother's two shoulders.

What, Bill ! Bill Ironstone — after all these
years, old Billy?'

Bless my soul, sir ! what next will you do ?
How dare you, sir ? What '

I'm Teddy — Teddy Gray — were not we boys
together at old Spanker's school at Liverpool ?
young men, old pals — didn't I go to sea, and
leave ye head over heels in love with my sister,
and didn't ye have a row after I had left ye
both, and break off the match, and all before I
could get back to make the peace between ye ?
Old Billy Ironstone, there's no forgetting that.
I'm right glad to see you again. Bill — upon my
soul I am ! Shake hands once again, Billy.
Why, this is just like a mealy-drama altogether.'

And Captain Gray seized hold of my brother's
two hands — one with a stick in it — and pumped
his arms up and down, and fairly bewildered
him with so much exuberance, and such genuine
pleasure and surprise at seeing him.

< Are you— are you Edward Gray, then ?' my
brother gasped forth at last.

To be sure I am.'

Of Liverpool V

Sure, and haven't I just said so V
I shouldn't have known you.'

Nor I you,' said the aeronaut. ' You've got
beastly fat. Bill.'

You're not particularly thin, that 1 can see,'
replied my brother, quickly.

Ay, no ; we've both made flesh since we
walked about Lime Street without a penny to
fly A^dth, either of us. Bill, ye were a good-looking
young sprig then, and that's more than
I can say now, and be truthful. And ye had a
much better temper of your own then. Bill, and
were a good sort of a fellow, and — but I am
glad to catch hold of your fist once more for all
that. Ton ray conscience, but I am !'

My brothers face twitched spasmodically.
This friend from the clouds— from the far-ofi"
days when he was young, good-looking, and
poor, when I was a little girl — was too much
for his imperturbability, his natural hardness,
his dislike of men and women in the aggregate.
He was for once not his customary self. It was

many years back in his life since anyone had
been glad to see him. It was a novelty that
impressed him by its very strangeness, and the
flattery which it conveyed was genuine, and
took him off his guard.

It's very' surprising. Bless my soul and
body ! Ted Gray,' he muttered, * I thought
that you were dead and buried long ago.'

They told me you were dead when I asked
about you in Liverpool.'

« The liars !'

He turned back with Captain Gray, and, as if
ashamed of any exhibition out of his usual run
of stoicism, said, a little more roughly,

'Get on with your balloon, and then — and
then,' he added, after an anxious pause, * we'll
have a bit of supper before you and your friend
start. Priscilla,' turning to me, 'will you see
about supper for these gentlemen V

Certainly, A\-ith pleasure ;' and I hurried away
before he should alter his mind. I thought that
he had come into the house to alter it when I
found him standing at my side in the diningroom
a quai-ter-of-an-hour afterwards.

There — there isn't time for a hot supper, I
suppose, Priscilla?' he asked, with almost a
blush on his face at his own suggestion.

Oh, dear, no. And I am almost afraid
there is not enough cold meat in the house,
AVilham.'

Make it up with pickles ; Ted was always a
pig at pickles,' he remarked, as he stepped into
the garden again.

Five minutes afterwards and he reappeared.

How long shall you be now?'

'The servants ^vill not be very long, William.*

They're both in a hurry to get away.
Especially the lame one, who I don't think is
quite right in his head, mind. He talks such
awful rot.'

Does he though V I said ; ' but hadn't they
better stay the night, and T

Certainly not,' cried my brother, with alacrity ;
what next will you think of, to turn the place
topsy-turvy? Let me know when supper is
ready. 1 shall be precious glad when they're
gone. You will find us in the garden. Gray's
drinking whisky and water like a fish — I

VOL. III. P

never saw a man poor it down so. And Big-weed
won't drink at all. He's infernally unsociable.'


I looked attentively at William. It struck me
that he was rather flushed, and that he flaunted
his clay pipe about with a trifle too much extravagance
of gesture. He had been di-inking
whisky and water too, and, although in strict
moderation, he was not used to whisky. Not
that he was the worse for liquor. On the contrary,
and presupposing that he was in liquor, I
am ashamed to confess he was much the better
for it. I had never seen him like this in all my
life before.

When I went at last in search of the gentlemen,
there was a fresh surprise for me. They
were all seated under the cedars, before a little
table on which were grog, and glasses, and
cigars, and pipes, and Captain Gray was singing
one of Moore's melodies in a burning, squeaking
tone, like a man humming through a comb, and
the bowls of the three pipes in the distance were
aglow with fii-e. Quite a convivial garden-party.


Then wreathe the bowl

With flowers of soul,
The brightest wit can find us ;

We'll take a flight

Tow'rds heaven to-night,
And leave dull earth behind us,'

sang the captain.

"And leave dull earth behind us'' ' quoted
Mr. Bigweed, dismally. * Too shoppy, Gray,
too balloon altogether. Not my style of song
at all.'

We'd prefer a love-song, mayhap V said the
other, with a most pronounced curl of his lip.

I don't believe in love. You know I don't.
Why revive '

Bill, m' boy cried the captain, turning to my
brother, and without waiting for the conclusion
of his friend's question, ' ye remember the song,
and how vexed Lizzie was with you and me for
singing it one night? And after all we got her
to join in the chorus at last, and a rare fine
evening we had of it altogether.'

I remember,' said my brother, in a husky
voice.

Ay, bead, we were happy enough then — ■

p2

happy as kings, or as young puppies with their
troubles to come, eh, Bill V
Yes, perhaps so.'

It was a Friday night — bad luck to Fridays I
and I had brought Donaldson home for the
first time to supper.'

You had.'

That baste Donaldson, who turned out such
a brute, Ted, and broke my sister's heart. Who
would have believed that now, with the silky
manners he had V remarked the captain.

I never liked him.'

But she did, the silly creature. And as ye
wouldn't open your mouth, and he was always
opening his, why '

'Ted, you're not getting on with your
whisky,' said my brother, hastily. ' And here's
Priscilla to tell us that supper is ready. Mr.
Bigweed, how vnll you manage to get into the
house V

Don't mind me in the least,' was the :reply.
If you'll send me out a crust of dry bread and a
drop of cold spring water, I shall do very well
here, and I daresay shall be strong enough in

the morning to leave your hospitable mansion
on my hands and knees. Pray don't take any
notice of me. I'm not worth it.'

Bigweed, you're a melancholy idiot,' shouted
forth the aeronaut. * Catch hold of my old pal's
arm, and limp herself into the house somehow.
And I'll lead the way sith the lady, if she will
allow me the inexpressible honour.'

He raised his hat, offered me his arm, and then
hurried me towards the house at a brisk trot, as
though he fancied the supper was hot, and might
get cold before we reached the dining-room.
But there was a method in his alacrity.

Your brother Bill will take some time to get
Bigweed along, 'Miss Ironstone,' he said ; ' and I
wanted to just say a word to ye in the strictest
confidence, and if ye'll allow an old friend, as it
were, of the family?'

I inclined my head, although I was half afraid
of what he was going to say.

I hope ye won't mind my friend Bigweed's
manner,' he said, in a husky whisper ; 'and that
ye'll do your best to put up with him for half-an-hour
or so. He's in a bad way.'

Poor fellow. Is his instep,

his heart — not his instep, madam. He'll
soon get over his instep, poor shrimp,' he replied,
but he's met with a disappointment — badly
jilted; and all the better for him, if he only
knew. But his medical attendant says he must
have distraction — excitement — to keep him up.
He has taken to balloons to keep him up, but
they don't have any effect. Only when they
come down — then he's excited for five minutes
or so — not longer. It's a bad complaint, though
he's not a bad fellow.'

It seems to me very distressing.'

It is. If we could only rouse him — but I
can t, and his family can't, and he gets softer
every day. I am afraid of his doing something
desperate.'

Oh, good gracious !'

sand then he'll do it in such a dull, dead,
ditch-water fashion that will take all the suit
out of it. If he blows his brains out, he'll do it
flabbily — ye see if he doesn't.'

I hope I shall never see anything of the
land,' I said, very firmly.

Of course, of course, Miss Ironstone. That
is a mere figure of speech of mine, to give yean
idea, as it were, of his character.'

'Yes, I think I understand,' I said. ' Was he
so very deeply attached to the lady V

When I say his soul was bound up with her,
ifs a mere parcel-post kind of expression by
comparison with his absorbing passion, ma'am,'
replied Captain Gray ; ' and she was undeserving
of it all.'

Dear, dear. How sad !'

And he did not meet his disappointment like
a man — like youi- brother, for instance.'

N — no V I said, interrogatively.
Bill was brave throughout ; he became hard,
disagreeably hard probably, but hard.'

He is a beetle disagreeable at times.'

*Not a doubt of that,' he added, confidentially,
But, at all events, he bore up. And Big-weed
doesn't bear up, not even in a balloon.'

I'm sorry to hear it.'

And, to tell you the truth, I'm getting tired
of the custody of Mr. Big-eyed ; he palls upon
one in a car five feet by three. But he icill

come with me. And now he has met with an
accident. That will distract him, I hope, and
give him something fresh to think about. But
you will try to cheer him, Miss Ironstone, if
you can. Female society would do wonders for
such an impressionable man, if he would only
take to it again, the doctor says. Talk to him
at supper, and don't say or sing anything that is
sentimental, please, or he'll burst into tears and
spoil the blessed evening.'

Captain Gray was evidently looking forward
to a festive night of it. Fancy anything festive
at Rumney Burn !

I'm afraid I shall not be able to keep particularly
cheerful,' I said, timidly, ' I'm not naturally
cheerful.'

'Sol should think, ma'am. But I shall be
there to help you. i'm naturally cheerful.'

So I should think,' I added, a little satirically
perhaps.

That's why Bigweed's relations put that incubus
upon me,' he said. ' I was just the man,
full of life, and energy, and spirits, and go, they
said. And, by Jove, all my life, and energy,

and spirits are on the go Tvith that tallow.
That's the melancholy result, bliss Ironstone, and
it's affecting me.'

Captain Gray was a trifle selfish after all. I
could only feel sympathy with the crippled
sufferer, lagging so far in the rear, and hanging
on to my brother, ' with all his initial weight,'
as William said savagely afterwards.

We were sitting do^-n to supper presently,
William and I facing each other at opposite
ends of the table, Mr. Bigweed on my right, and
Captain Gray on my brother's right, a very odd
party of four. In the lamplight and without
his glasses, Mr. BigAveed improved; he was
very pale with long hah' which had not been
cut for many, many months of his disconsolate
career. I was sure he wrote poems, and could
play upon some musical instrument, and his
brow was exceedingly classical, if man-ed a little
by bumps — temporary bumps, owing to the
baboon accident.

He afforded a strange contrast to his fi-end,
Captain Gray, who was as red as a pillar-box.

1 think I did exert myself that evening to be

cheerful after catching Captain Gray's expressive
eye once or twice, and my brother's wondering
eye, and the sad, tear-moistened, dark eye of
Percy Bigweed. I was always catching somebody's
eye that evening, till, in my embarrassment,
it became a party that was all eyes.

And the eyes of Percy Bigweed became at
last the most embarrassing of the three pairs
before me — there was so yearning an interest in
them, as I learned long afterwards. I mean the
next day, before luncheon, when — but I am
precipitate.

The geronaut and my brother did the chief
part of the conversation, in a loud voice to
begin with, and to which no one paid the least
attention, till they dropped into half whispers
and muttering, when Percy and I — how strange
to say 'Percy and I !'— tried hard to hear every
word they were saying. We did hear a little.
Captain Gray was telling my brother the whole
history of his unfortunate sister's manage
career, and how badly she had been treated by
that brute of a Donaldson, before his premature
but fortunate decease at a steeplechase.

And what's she doing now, Gray?' inquired
my brother, with careless indifference, as it
were.

She keeps house and home for me, her bachelor
brother, at Southport, whenever I am in
Southport.'

Beastly sandy place, Southport.'

^ It is gritty.'

And very lonely for her, nth you away so
much.'

Yes, she pines a bit. But man, or woman, is
made to pine.'

That's true,' said Mr. Bigweed, with a deep
sigh that stated the flowers in the centre dish,
and blew a spray of maidenhair fen into the
salt-cellar ; ' but why mention such a thing, at
such a supper V

What's the matter sith the supper ?' said my
brother, becoming suddenly acrimonious. A
little would always put him out.

It's the best we could do at a moment's notice,
Mr. Bigweed,' I said, apologetically.

It's a splendid supper,' he said, ' and I meant
to imply it was a supper that I was very much

enjoying. In the spirit,' he added, as we all
looked at his plate full of the meat and pickles
with which he had only trifled, ' in the spirit, and
with such pleasant company round me.'

'Lately put, Bigweed, by the soul of me,'
cried the aeronaut.

1 don't eat suppers now, and 1 don t go into
society now,' Mr. Bigweed still further explained,
' and the whole thing is a bit bewildering to
one who is living for himself, in silence, and in
solitude, and in — in Liverpool. I hardly seem
to realise it yet,' and here he pressed his handover
his classical brow, and seemed counting
every bump he had got there, and swept back
his tangled mass of raven hair, and once more
1 caught his eye — both of his eyes, with a wonderful
and dreamy glare in them which made me
nervous. I looked away, when he brought my
heart into my mouth, and caused my brother to
stick his fork into his lip, by shouting forth in a
loud voice, suddenly,

Great heavens !'

AVhat the holy Moses is the matter now V
cried the captain.

*I never saw such a likeness in my life to
Matilda,' he exclaimed, excitedly. ' The very
image, as she sits sideways.'

Who sits sideways V asked William.

You' sister, Miss Ironstone.'

Ironstone, sir, not bone.'

I beg pardon, stone. Captain Grey, yon seethe
likeness ? Yon do see the likeness !'

I thank my blessed stars that I never saw
your Matilda in my life, sort.'

Ah ! I had forgotten. Yes, it is a wonderful
Likeness ; but it would have been better that I
had died in the balloon than have received such
a terrible reminiscence as this. I shall go distracted,'
he murmured ; ' don't mind my emotion,
please ; take no notice of me — I ^\'ill be calm
presently — these gherkins are very good, ha !
ha ! you pickled them yourself. Miss Ironstone ?
Matilda — my Matilda no longer, but Jones's
Matilda — was a great hand at home-made
pickles. She did not believe in the things you
buy in bottles. Not she.'

Does he always go on like this V I heard my
brother ask his old friend the captain.

Never knew him before. Just what 1 imagined
might happen. Just what will please this
family tremendously. He is shaking oiF his
inertia at last.'

Hadn't he better go and shake it off in the
garden?' muttered William, back to him, 'I
don't like it here.'

He'll be better after supper.'

Priscilla,' said my brother at once, ' shall you
be much longer V

I had not hurried. I was endeavouring to
keep Mr. Bigweed in countenance, who was not
hurrying either ; in fact, who had hardly begun
his supper, and was waxing eloquent.

'It seems a remarkably strange thing, now
that I come to reflect upon it seriously,' he said,
that here are four people, massed together, as
it were, who are all singularly lonely and miserable
objects. Yes, we are all objects.'

Spake for yourself, Mr. Bigweed,' said the
captain.

I'm not miserable — who are you calling a
miserable object ? ' remarked my brother
William.

Tm not lonely,' I vent-ed to add, as my own
especial answer.

He set these protests all aside, waved them
away, with both his aiTQS in the air, as paltry
excuses which he would have none of.

You are miserable in your separate ways,
though you hardly know it. I am miserable,
and I do know it. That is the only difference
between us. And you, sir,* turning suddenly to
my brother, who jumped in his chair, and then
edged himself more closely to the side of the
captain, ' have known what it is to be severed
widely severed, as it were — from the object of
your affections '

When I was a young fool, sir. And I don't
want that subject to be discussed just now, or at
any time.'

We are kind-ed souls, Mr. Ironstone ; we are
both victims to the perfidy of woman,' said Mr.
Big*^-eed.

Where's the perfidy ?' cried the aeronaut.
Bill Ironstone never proposed to my sister — she
never knew that my friend here cared as much
as a snap for her ; if she had, it might have

been a very different life for both of them, poor
things.'

Gray, I object to being classed as a poor
thing,' said my brother, ' and I ^vish yoii would
not go on — in — in such an abominably foolish
way.'

It is I, sir, who am to blame,' said Mr. Big-weed,
politely, again. ' It was Matilda who
trifled with me, who spurned my suit, who — oh !
heaven and earth ! how like you are to her now,
Miss Priscilla, with that sweet, pensive expression,
and yet with an expression that is all your
own. Don't move. Pray don't move V

Gray,' said my brother, with a groan, ' how
long will it be before you go home T

Home, Bib ! ye are jesting with me. Didn't
ye say in the garden that ye could put us both
up for the night, ye thought?'

Yes, but I only thought ; and I'm quite sure
now that you had both better go away, and call
for the balloon in the morning.'

'My friend is helpless,' said the captain,
sternly, * ye forget.'

Yes, I am quite helpless, thank you,' added

Mr. Bigweecl, complacently ; ' don't cast me
into the dark night. This is the first gleam of
sunshine that for a long Awhile I have seen fall
across my chequered path.'

Sunshine I in the dark night,' added the captain,
T\'ith a ink at me which I resented with a
frown. 'Bill, my buy, there is no help for it.
We're fixtures, and the grog and the cigars are
still out in the garden. And it's a beautiful
evening, and not at all late.'

'But '

'And while we are talking over old times,
]\Iiss Priscilla can sing or play, perhaps, to my
invalid friend. That piano tells a pretty story,
Miss Ironstone — eh, now V

Miss Ironstone, you sing !' shouted Mr, Big-weed,
with enthusiasm — shouted so loudly that
my brother regarded him again vdih dismay
before retiring precipitately into the garden,
followed by Captain Gray. But I was not afraid
of him. I was interested in him. It had been
dark night with him, he had said, until he had
seen me. I was his gleam, my panting heart
whispered to me softly.

VOL. III. Q

How long I played and sang to Mr. Percy
Bigweed I shall never know.

The rest is like a dream to me — a happy and
strange dream. And Mr. BigAveed, who bad
dragged himself to the conch by the side of the
piano, lay and watched my countenance, and
listened with his eyes fixed on me, and his hands
clasped together, and said softly, ' Another, if
yon ^^^ll only sing another,' imtil I^ had got
through — upon a moderate computation — some
three and twenty ballads ; and then my brother
and the captain, both looking stolid and sleepy,
returned into the house.

Hush !' cried Mr. Bigweed reprovingly, as
my brother stumbled over a footstool, 'Miss
Ironstone is going to oblige us with a little
song.'

I think there has been enough squalling fora
twelve-month,' said my brother.

Oh ! profanity,' cried Mr. Bigweed, ' she hasa
sweet voice. Matilda had a voice, but it was
not so sweet as this. Hers was a little rasp.
One more, Miss Ironstone.'

It'll have to be tomorrow, then,' said my

brother. ' Good gi-acioiis, I haven't been up so
late as this for twenty years.'

And so that happy and memorable evening
came to an end. And the next morning Mr.
Bigweed rang the bell and des-ed his compliments
to Mr. Ironstone, and would lie kindly
send up the three gardeners to help to carry
]nm downstairs to breakfast, as he was whrJly
unable to move without assistance.

Here's a pretty go,' ejaculated Mr. Ironstone ;
- what's to be done now V

Sam had better hide over to Dr. Smithies ;
mr. Bigweed might have put something out.'

He's put me out,' said my brother, ' I know
that.'

Mr. Bigweed was carried downstairs like a
Guy Fawkes, and set up to the breakfast-table.
There they told him that a doctor was to be sent
for.

He smiled at this.

Tharjk you very much,' he said, ' I shall want
looking to, I'm sure.'

Later on he said to me, with another strange
smile illuming his expressive countenance,

q2

My foot is as big as a bushel-basket. I can't
move. I'm so very glad.'

And then the poor dear sufferer fainted away.

Shall I go on? Is there any more to say at
which the reader cannot guess? Hardly. A
few lines, and the romance of Priscilla Ironstone
is at an end. Mr. Percy Big-weed had put
something out, and twisted something roimd, in
his instep, and his was a serious case, invoking
much nursing and patient care, or the doctor
would not answer for the consequences. And
I was his nurse, and I answered for the consequences,
and my brother and I got by degrees
to like him — I by many more degrees than my
brother, and with remarkable rapidity.

And he got to like us — to like me especially ;
and to forget — oh ! happy lapse of memory —
Matilda.

Before he left Rumney Burn, he asked me t(^
become his wedded wife, and my brother, after
some little silent meditation in the summerhouse,
started that very day for Southport to
make it up nth Captain Gray's sister.

PENPRASE THE STONE-BREAKER.

Xo, I never thought I .slioiikl have come down
to stone-breaking on a Welsh high-road. In my
wildest freaks of imagination — and I had a magnificently
freakish imagination once — or in the
most hypochondriacal of the moods which would
beset me in my advancing years, when fate,
destiny, bad luck, call it what you will, got the
letter of all my far-seems plans for advancement
in the future, I had never pictured to myself
a gi'ey-hau'ed, artistically-clad object at
the roadside hammering away at stones. Hanged
if I ever guessed it would have come dora
to that ; my jealous and envious friends, relations,
and acquaintances, though they had never

professed the slightest faith in me, could not
believe that I should have descended to it, and
thought that I would have preferred to perish
by my own hand, just as they would have preferred
that wind-up themselves for me, as a more
festive and characteristic proceeding on the part
of old Paul Penprase.

It is possible that I had thought that such a
termination to an unfortunate career would be
less ignoble than a corner in the white-washed,
ill-smelling, disgustingly-ventilated poor-house
of Fechenaber ; but I had not given up all faith
in myself or in my powers, or considered that
this was the very end of my existence. Not I.
I was at seventy-six years of age still looking
forward over my heap of cursedly hard flints,
over the hills that shut me in with their glaring-greens,
or their sharp, slate sides, to the future.
Stone-breaking, Fechenaber Workhouse, grim
taskmasters, ignorant associates, and the weakest
skilly I have ever tasted were only parts of
one poor, miserable episode. Great men have
had their trials before me, if not quite so late in
life ; indeed, all great men have had them. And

fliL'ir chances, too, most of them. I have never
had any chance, though I have looked ont for it
pretty sharply in my time, schemed for it, prayed
for it, and lied for it. No, not always truthful,
I confess. I do not attempt to disguise my
shortcomings here ; it is on account of them that
I have determined to write this story oF my
later years. There may be a moral in it somewhere,
though I do not see it myself. I was always
handy nth my pen. There were the
makings of a literary career in me if editors had
condescended to read my manuscripts, if publishers
had perused my poems and novels, and
brought them out as they brought out other
people's books ; but I never had my fair chance.
Editors and publishers — I have tried them all —
got weary of me. I palled upon them, and the
only two essays 1 got into print were found too
closely resembling essays that had already appeared
in magazines of bygone days; it was
said that I had copied them verbatim. Poor,
half-taught jacks-in-office, who did not know
what verbatim meant I I can afford to pity their
ignorance and spite a little now. Let them pass.

They knoAv not — 1 know not — what they and
the world may have lost.

1 was handy with my pen, I say again. And
when I found that the world of letters was
against me, and anxious to trample me underfoot,
I took to printing tickets for shop-windows
and to addressing envelopes for public companies,
and so on. There were friends at last
Who thought they had done me a good turn in
securing for me the post of a collector of rates
and taxes in the paltry little town of Fechenaber,
and they had simply extinguished in me every
scrap of ambition and hope of distinction by that
process. They had done for me at last — perhaps
intentionally, though I make no accusation. I
was set in a narrow and sordid-minded groove ;
I was cribbed, cabined, and confined ; there was
no poetry of thought in knocking at door after
door and being an unwelcome visitor, or told
nobody was at home — in taking miserable scraps
of money once a quarter, or seeing for those
scraps, or threatening distraints, or doing something
or other to bring the hatred and contempt
of humankind upon me.

I was not fit for a collector's post. I was
told so myself, aud by the honourable — the
honourable ! — Board of Fechenaber Guardians
later on : but what I mean is that the height and
depth of my thoughts were so above the petty
tyrannies and harassments of tax-collecting
that my mind was unfitted for it, and became at
last unhinged. That it was unhinged for a
while there can be no doubt, or my accounts
would laye been more clear and satisfactory. I
have but little hesitation in asserting that they
Ay ere not satisfactory to the Board, and that
there were various inquiries, and examinations,
and cross-examinations, and much shaking of
empty heads — terribly empty heads — over my
figures, until I was positively worried half out
of my life — and compelled finally to resign; and
so the tongue of malevolence was set wagging
in my disfavour, and little boys pointed me out
in the street as the man who had 'sneaked' the
tax-money.

This was my worst time. I did not think
there could have been a lower depth. The
possibilities of getting on after that, and with

the breath of slander circulating even to the
back slums of Fechenaber, were terribly remote ;
and it was only gin and a miserable pittance
from my son-inlaw, who worked in a quarry till
he was blown to pieces, that kept my spirits up
a bit. They may say I took to drinking at this
time, and to political discussions in the tap-rooms
of the public-houses. They may say what they
like. The utterances of the great unwashed I
have always regarded with supreme indifference;
I have invariably soared above the common
herd. I have known my worth, if other people
have not. I am not the first man who has
wasted his sweetness on the desert air, though 1
do not claim just now to being a particularly
sweet old man. I know in my inmost heart that
there are very few wiseacres who could — but this
is not to the purport of my story. Let me get
on.

Despite all my natural gifts, my powers of
speech and language, my perspicacity, my knowledge
of the world and of human nature and
the human heart, it came to Fechenaber poorhouse
in the long run. Of course my thickheaded,

religious son-in-law said he had warned
me it would come to this ; that he had prophesied
it all along if I did not work more and talk less;
that I had never looked out for myself, and
missed always the main chance ; and then he
died of not looking out when a dynamite charge
was going off, and was blown to heaven in little
bits, along^Wth the bits of half-a-dozen others that
were uncommonly difficult to sort. People can
easily wax eloquent upon the backsliding of
other folk ; but Lord, they can side themselves
with anybody, mind you. I know this, I have
seen so much of the world. I — lout I am once
more diverging.

I had been in Fechenaber poor-house some
three years when the monotony of my life was
received by a most startling incident in my
career. I had almost settled down to the
unalterable ; I had become the oracle of the
institution, and was generally respected by my
contemporaries — an addle-headed lot — although
there were a few to carp and snarl at me and
my ways, and to taunt me ^vith being a useless,
even a snuffy, old dog.

Soli must not imagine that there are not even
in a Workhouse en\^, hatred, and uncharitableness,
jealousy of superior mental attainments,
and much barefaced injustice. There is all that,
and more.

Why I should for the last six months of my
sojourn there have been set to break stones on
the various roads leading to Fechenaber, I cannot
understand to this day. It was all very
well for Davis, the master of the workhouse, to
smile and show his teeth and say, ' Penprase,
you're a hale old fellow ;' I Iniew that as well ashe
did, and I did not care for his compliment
when it ended in hammering at flints. ' You're
looking very well, you're a credit to us; but
you must have plenty of fresh an,' the master
said ; but they said in the house that it was because
I had made myself unbearable with my
dictatorial airs and nonsensical pompous ways,
and that it was a misery to be in my company,
and other libels of that kind, for which 1 could
have sued every man jack of them — and, ah, I
would have done so too if I had had the means !

No man is to be insulted with impunity in a free
and glorious country like this.

Well, it came to stone breaking, to the
Plenty of fresh air,' and the keeping up my constitution,
as old Davis ironically put it — I
believe he was ironical — and there I was four or
five miles from home, day after day of my life,
in all weathers — when it rained I was expected
to get under a hedge or a haystack, — hammering,
pounding, chipping, and very often
swearing, when the pieces flew off suddenly and
caught me unawares on tender portions of my
physiognomy.

Oh, yes, I had plenty of exercise, fresh air,
and wet grass ; sore places, bronchitis, and
rheumatism, and not much sympathy from
passers-by. They were not w^hoUy devoid of
sympathy, possibly ; but, take them for all in all,
they were a scaly, shabby, miserable lot. I hated
every one of them.

Now and then a carriage would pass, and its
inmates look at me in a nasty, superior, supercilious
style. More than once I am certain the

coachmen have tried to drive over my legs aud
make an end of me ; and the airs people gave
themselves — some of those who thought they
were honouring me by condescending to address
a few words to me — almost made me die of
laughing afterwards. There was one ignorant
fellow, who had not a 'h ' in his whole disposition,
but who had made ' his pile ' and kept his
carriage somehow, who did me the favour of
pitpng me. I could have smashed his skull in
with my hanger.

*Ay, but ye're low down in the wur-r-rld to
cora to that, old man,' he said, after bawling ina
coarse voice for the coachman to pull up.
'How old are jqV

Seventy-six next Michaelmas.'

It is 'ard lines to be at that work, pair body.
sere catch,' and he flipped half-a-crown towards
me, right into the long grass — and a nice hunt
I had to find it through his clumsiness — and bade
his coachman drive on again. Still that was
sympathy, though taking a practical and common
form, and I make no complaint against it.
Had there been more half-crowns flying about

ill that fashion I could have born the ignominy
of my position with philosophy. But it was
generally a threepenny piece, and more often
still one of those dix-centuries things that my
tobacconist regards always with grave doubts,
and when in a bad temper will refuse to take.
And oh, the hundreds of people that will pass me
without one glance, despite the woe-begone expression
that I can assume upon occasion, and
that would melt the heart of any stone less hard
than the accursed specimens heaped up at my
side ! Oh, the want of charity in this world I

From the aborigines of this wild part of
Wales I got nothing. ' They knew old Paul too
well,' I heard one scoffer say. Not even a pipeful
of tobacco or the loan of a match to light it
with was to be got out of a Welshman. One
man, With his pockets stuffed with tracts, sat beside
me once and said he would pray with me,
and I let him do the praying all to himself,
whilst I chopped up stones more savagely than
usual. He remonstrated, especially when he
was hit by one of the bits, and said I was a
hardened old reprobate ; and I told him I could
VOL. III. R '

not afford to waste my time, spent in the service
of the State, in Hastening to him. I could have
argued with him on some points of his discourse,
but he got up and marched away, leaving me
one tract, the grammar of which was a^vful and
absolutely beneath contempt.

It was in the autumn when I was at work
upon the Plan Chocadoc road — a road extra
hard, and free from sleepiness and muck, and
within a fair distance of the Chocadoc Waterfall,
which fools in summer-time came on coaches
ten and twenty miles to see, even when the
weather was as dry as a chip, and there was
no water to fall from anywhere. It was a dryer,
hotter time for October than had been known
for many years, and well I remember that it
was the hottest and driest of all the days that
had been yet. My hammer sounded like a bell
upon the flints, and the leaves rustled as though
they had been made of metal. It might have
been July or August save for the gold and
copper tints upon the trees, and the absence of
all life upon the mountain roads. Sentimental
idiots said the scenery was sublime about here,

but I had a poor opinion of it myself. Too
much up-aud-down about it, and too trying to
the bunions, God knows, to please me. I was
hard to please, I own — men of taste and culture
notably are — and despite my surroundings I had
never lacked refinement. The scenery was not
sublime ; it aroused no poetry in me, and its
irregularities of surface made me blaspheme a
little on my homeward route to Fechenaber.

Sublime or common-place, I had the highroad
to myself for hours that day, and I ate the
bread and cheese wherewith a beggarly parish
had provided me undisturbed by anything save
the beastly birds. It was three in the afternoon.
One or two market carts, a frowsy old
woman knitting as she walked, Sam the grownup
idiot from the next village, dripping at the
mouth, and a little boy with a large cow, were
all the things and people who had passed me
that day. I was tired and hot, and not in too
amiable a mood. There are times, even With
me, when I am not quite amiable ; it is difficult
to account for, but let it remain on record. The
reader will understand once more that I have

nothing to disguise — that this may be taken
even as a kind of confession, apology, atone-^
ment. Yes, atonement if yon like — it does not
matter much to me what anybody calls it now.
Kitty— my grand-daughter that is, child of the
silly fellow who blamed me for not looking
about me, and then could not get out of the
way himself of an explosion— wants to see, she
says, what land of a story I can make out of
it, and so let Kitty have her way for once. She
is not the worst friend I have had in my life,
though she does preach sometimes, and in her
father's style, too, which was always aggravating.
But I bear with her ; she is very young,

I was not in too amiable a mood, then. It is
possible the Weather was unseasonable, and did
not agree with me. I may say conscientiously
that I was not doing my fair amount of work,
and that my labours were self-apportioned on
that particular afternoon, with a due respect
and regard for my advancing years.

I had been dozing. Suddenly, to the left,
and coming up the hill at the top of which I
was at work, I caught sight of a bicyclist advancing.

I detest bicyclists : they are here,
there, and everywhere ; they are always in a
hung, and never have time to put their hands
into their pockets. Theirs is a mean way of
getting along, and I for one despise it. I had
had excellent opportunities of judging of this
class of being since my avocation of stone-breaking,
and I had never Mown one to throw
nie so much as a brass pocket-piece in the whole
course of my professional career. Consequently
I did not love bicychsts — they were objectionable
to me ; and I should not have even looked
up as he. passed me, to see if the rider were young
or old or middling, if he had not come to a full
stop of his own accord and sprung off the bicycle
as he reached me.

By Jove, your hill is a breather,' he said,
panting as he spoke.

It isn't my hill,' I answered, shortly enough,
I daresay. I think I have mentioned before
that 1 was not always as amiable as I might
have been.

A good thing for you if it were, old man, for
it's all slate, like the mountains yonder.'

Very likely. It's no business of mine.'

How far is it to the Cliocadoc Falls V

A mile-and-a-half.'

Straight clown this hill V

• Straight on.'

I began to break stones, being tired of his
selfish conversation.

He stood by the bicycle, regarding the operation
critically. He was a yoimg man, very tall
and dark and wiry, and seemed interested in my
work. He did not mount his bicycle and ride
away ; I seemed to have struck his fancy and
aroused his interest. He might have seen in me,
or in my expression, a something out of the
common way. Many people of an observant
turn see that immediately. And though I loathe
pity, still pity is akin to sixpences, and sixpences
buy black shag and cavendish, my favorite
'brands,' though one does not get them good
at Fechenaber. Nothing is good there, by the
way. A dirty hole of a place.

It is hard lines for a man of your age,' he
said, reflectively, at last. ' Can't they give you
something better and easier to do V

They could if they Hkecl. But they won't.'

Do you come from the Fechenaber — house V
'Yes.'

And have walked all the way?'
'Yes.'

And must walk back ?'

Yes — do you think they send a carnage forme?'


They will some day — a slack one — if they
keep you long at this game,' he said, indignantly.
Then he added : ' But never mind ; at least you
get away from depressing surroundings to the
sunshine.'

And hard work.'

Oh, you don't like work ?' he asked, drily.

I said hard work : manual work, I mean.'

You're not used to it ?'

I have been only used to it since 1 went into

the house.'

Tell us all about it, old gentleman.'

He wheeled his bicycle to the side, laid it

gingerly against the hedge-bank, sat doT\Ti on

the heap of stones, and began to light his pipe.

A cool customer, I could see now ; but it would

lead to some miserly but ostentatious dole, and
it would be etiquette to change my keynote and
be friendly.

*Have some baccy,' lie said, scantily, and
pitched his tobacco pouch at me and laughed.
He was too fond of laughing at anything and
everything, to my fancy ; but then life was more
of a joke with him than with me, and he had a
lot of go in him. When people have too much
go in them, they always grin. I took his
tobacco and filled my short pipe. I was not
too proud for that ; it was offered in good fellowship
; there was no more patronage about the
offer than he could help.

What have you been doing all your long
life, to wind up with stone-breaking in the
Chocadoc road f

He was very curious and persistent, and I
could not make him out. As a rule, I sum up
people pretty quickly, and read their characters
like books ; but this young fellow bothered me.
He was too free-and-easy, too familiar altogether,
presumed on the difference between his position
and mine, his age and mine ; and yet he did it

nil in a way I could not take offence at. He was
not an excursions, ' a tripper ' from Liverpool,
a Lancashire lad whose father had made money
in cotton, a showman out for a holiday, or anything
of that sort ; and if he had been a gentleman,
born and bred, he would not have kept
grinning and chuckling at everything I said.
Certainly I was amusing enough, and when I
saw that my satirical remarks were quickly
seized upon and enjoyed I knew that this young-man
had a keen appreciation of honour — which
is a great gift. I never possessed that. In all
my life I have never seen anything to laugh at.
I told him so, as a hint that his exuberance of
spirits was a beetle bit offensive ; but he only
laughed the more, so 1 did not put him down for
quite the gentleman — only a half-and-half, with
a good deal of froth on the top, that required
blowing away before you could get to any thing-sensible.


As he appeared particularly struck with me,
I was communicative enough. I told hmi the
whole of my career ; I thought it was as well he
should know it — that it would be worth my

while — and that, at any rate, it was better
occupation than breaking-up stones. It was a
long story, but it did not tire him. It was a
compliment to the powers of my narrative that
he seemed to forget all about the Chocadoc
Falls; he listened to every word with great
attention — I do not remember ever meeting nth
a listener half as patient ; but if he had been
more touched by my misfortunes he would have
shown more delicacy of feeling. On the contrary,
he laughed, as I have said already. Other
people's troubles, trials, and disappointments
seemed to amuse him wonderfully ; and when I
told him of my Literary gifts, my compositions,
and my struggles to be famous, he lay on his
back on the stones and roared tiU the tears ran
out of his eyes.

I don't see anything to make quite such a
row over,' I said at last, severely. I could
stand a good deal when a half-a-crown was
looming in the distance ; but his irreverence and
his want of respect and kindly sympathy were
too much for my composure.

I beg pardon, Mr. Penprase, I'm sm-e,' he

said, sitting up and wiping this eves with his
pocket-handkerchief, ' but I can't help it, upon
my honour. I'm glad I've met you. You're

about as droll an old ' and then off he went

again almost into hysterics, and I wished he were
a flint and I could crack him.

However, all's well that ends well, the bard
says. He gave me a sovereign as a wind-up.
I was pretty fairly astonished — that douceur
made amends for all his boisterousness and ill-timed
hilarity. It was a princely gift — it meant
a lot to me. For the first time in my life, too, I
felt a throb of gratitude, the gift was so gracefully
bestowed. It was not displayed in a look-here
kind of way ; it was not chucked at me ; it was
passed into my palm, and my own fingers pressed
over it so shah-ply that he hurt me ; he did not
T^^sh me to see what it was until he had mounted
this bicycle and was off out of earshot of my
thanks. Indeed, I thought it incas a shilling, and
had not said a word — not even responded
Good day ' to his parting salutation to me as he
rattled away doTVTi the hill towards Chocadoc.

Then, when I had realised my good foi-tune, I

did run to the brow of the hill and call out ' God
bless you, sir !' and wave my old workhouse cap,
and flourish my hammer, and dance like an old
lunatic in the middle of the road. He did
not look roimd, but went on at a break-neck
rate down the steepest hill in all South Wales,
.at a rate which was enough to bring any
bicycle and its rider to summary grief, as at this
rate of his it did completely.

He was not prepared for the stones I had
spread myself last week over the road, and
close to the bottom of the hill ; he had been prepared
for the steep descent it was ; and though
warned by his extra rate of progression he was
not inclined, being headstrong, to take his
warning and act T\dth famishing like discretion,
but dashed on at his old mad pace, until he and
his bicycle together were hurled on one side,
and crumpled up and smashed in a single instant,
and whilst I was looking after him. It
was like a flash of lightning, and then all so
tremendously still I I stood and stared before
me ; there was no movement, no cry for help,
not a single sound anywhere. It was as

though I had dreamt it all, if it had not been
for the broken and twisted wheels in the
distance, and the dark still object mixed up
nth. them, and which I knew to be a man.

I pitched my long hammer on to the stones I
had been breaking, and set off down the hill
as fast as my rheumatic limbs would can me.
Heavens, what a way he had got I Avhat a long
hill it was ! I had never thought much of the
distance before. It seemed as if I should never
get to him — that my legs would never keep me
up all the way.

I was stooping over him at last. Yes, there
he was, ^\dth all the laugh out of him, and his
face bloody and hard and rigid, and an ugly
wound in his forehead, and his eyes shut, and
God laiows vrith. what limbs broken. Not that
that mattered much, I thought at once, for he
was sm-ely dead. There was not any doubt
about it. ' Dead and gone that man I' I muttered
; ' and only talking to me fill of life just
three minutes ago I' It was shocking, wonderful,
exciting. There would be an inquest, and
I should be the principal witness in the case.

the principal character in the tragedy — bar the
dead man, of course. And I should be paid
extra expenses, and made much of for a while,
and my name would be in all the Welsh papers :
'Paul Penprase, a highly intelligent witness,
who gave his evidence A\'ith much intelligence
and graphic force ' — that is how it would probably
run.

I put my hand upon his heart, but I could not
feel it beating ; there was no pulsation at the
wrist ; there were dark death-rings underneath
the eyes abbacy : he was in such an awkward
heap that I began to wonder what kind of coffin
he would require if they could not straighten
him out a bit before he stiffened into a starfish
kind of pattern. I put my hand upon his
heart again. Yes, dead — how could there be a
doubt about it ? Very dead indeed.

What to do with him, and how to let people
know, was not at once clear to me. It was five
miles back to Fechenaber, and not so much asa
cottage on the way ; it was about the same
distance on past Chocadoc-sith no house on
the road that I could call to mind : and to standstill

and holloa was to look like a fool, and dono
good, and spoil my voice. I ran all this
over in my mind, with my hand upon his heart,
and upon a big watch which he had in the
breast-pocket of this braided bicycle-jacket.
When I was sure his heart did not beat, I became
certain that his Avatch did — I could hear
it ticking. I thought that 1 should like to know
the time when this accident had happened. I
should be sure to be asked that question at the
inquest.

I drew forth this watch — a massive gold
hunter, to which a gold chain and seals were
attached — a handsome but rather vulgar-looking
watch, and with the initials J. W. L. flourishing
all over the back of it in diamonds. A
little too flashy this, and in execrable taste, but
still too valuable an affair to be left in the pocket
of a man lying dead by the roadside, and where
I should have to leave him whilst I went to tell
the news and get assistance.

Why tell the news and get assistance at all ?
Why not let somebody else find this poor unlucky
traveller, and so be quit of all the fuss

and bother of it ? The man being dead, it coidd
not matter who discovered him, and some tramp
would have been supposed to see him first, and
help himself to what the pockets of the gentleman
contained. It would save me a lot of
trouble — and I had never liked trouble — if I let
this awkward matter alone. True, I was stone-breaking
on the road that day ; but then I had
left early — was taken ill or something — and had
gone back to the house. There would be no
difficulty about evading that part of the subject.
What else had he got in his pocket ? Money,
of course, or he would not have been so free
AA^th his sovereigns. I had better see.

I was about to see, when his eyes opened
suddenly, as though he were mechanical and I
had touched a spring, and he lay and stared at
me most uncomfortably. I thought I should
have dropped upon my knees sith fright, he
glared so.

Water !' he gasped out at last — ' wa — ter I'
Yes ; I'll get it, from the Falls. It's a blessed
long way, though, down the valley. Do you
think you really care about it V

'Wa— ter!'

1 shall be gone half-an-hoiir, or tlii-ee-quar-
tears ; I don't think it's worth voir waiting all
that time for : you'll be dead before I get back

Water !' he moaned again, and he looked so
queerly at me that I went. I had slung round
my little can, that had had cold tea in it — at
least, they always called it tea at Fechnaber
poorhouse, but it might just as well have been
called a hair-wash — and it would be easy to fill
the can when I got to the stream — that stream
which the Falls fed, and which was such a confoundedly
long way off.

But I should be rewarded by the young gentleman's
friends and executors ; I should have
done my duty ; I should have saved his watch
from being stolen ; I should have acted altogether
the good Samaritan. I went across the
fields — field after field, and all down-hill — I
did not guess what the coming up again would
cost me. I got excited, and began to run and
stumble, when I heard the waters in the distance
murmuring, splashing, roaring as they leaped
over the black rocks, and went headlong down

VOL. III. S

forty feet into the boulder-strewn brook below
the brook to which I was advancing gingerly,
sliding down to amidst a wilderness of bracken
and bramble.

I reached the stream, filled my tin can, and
prepared to re-ascend. No, I had not calculated
on the trouble it would be to me to get to the
level of the high-road again. I had not made
sufficient allowance for my old age and shaky
knees and paucity of breath. It was the task
of a Hercules to work one's way through that
stiff ascent of underwood, with the brambles
catching at every turning and hooking small
pieces of my wardrobe from me, and running
into my flesh and wounding me. I thought I
.should die before I got to the top, and so get
the start of the young fool who had sent me on
such an errand and be in heaven before him.
I could fancy his surprise at finding I was there
already, and I wondered if he would ask me
first thing if I had got his watch safe, or could
tell him what the time vas ?

I was hot and sick and puffy, and red as fire
\vith constant rushes of blood to the head, and

at every step that I dragged upwards I cursed
the tolly which had placed me in this absurd
position. If I had thought for a moment or two,
I must have guessed that the bicyclist must lee
dead before 1 got back, audit would have been
easy to sit down and wait quietly till it was allover.
But my impulsive nature had taken me
to the stream, and here was I crawling on my
stomach like a lizard, trying to get back again,
and feeling fit to die, and swearing horribly. I
blush now to think of the oaths that escaped
my lips with every fleeting breath ; but I had
been unused to this kind of exertion, had never
laid myself out for it, and found that it was
doing its best to kill me.

I think I must have lost consciousness at last,
for I lays on my tin can and made an effort to
get up and crawl the rest of the way to the
wounded man. I was done for, if I did not
take care. I was nearly at my last gasp ; self-preservation
was the first law of nature, and he
had better do his last gasp than I. It was all
his fault, dashing down the hill like the maniac

s2

that he was. Why should I kill myself for him ?
What was he to me ?

But when I had recovered my breath I
gathered myself together, and crawled upwards
the rest of the way. I got to the high-road
again ; the Lord knows how long I had been
gone, but the sun was going down sharpish behind
the slate hills, and there were grey
shadows on the landscape. And in the highroad,
where I had left the wounded man and his
shattered bicycle, there remained no trace of
either — everything had been cleared off — and it
was all like a dream.

For days and days, for weeks and weeks
afterwards I tired out my brains in wondering
what had become of the man I had left for dead
on the Chocadoc road. Was he dead ? and had
he been carted away ? Had he recovered — was
it possible he had recovered after such a tenable
crumpling up, and walked off with the fragments
of the bicycle under his arm? Had he been
picked up by passers-by whilst I was absent, and
if so where had they carried him ? Had some

tramp seen him, and finished him surely for the
sake of the purse of money he might have had,
and dragged him amongst the ferns and blackberry
bushes, where he might he for weeks undiscovered
? Had I really dreamt it all, and
there had been no accident whatever ? Had
my brain given way beneath the occupation of
stone-smashing, and this was my first delusion
as a neat start off"? I could have believed these
two last solutions to the mystery had it not been
for the decisive reality of the watch. I had the
watch; it was a tangible fact. It was a
beauty !

And what to do with it? There was the
trouble and the uncertainty. To tell the master
of the workhouse was to have his officious paws
on it in his extreme anxiety to take care of it,
to lock it away from me, to advertise it in the
newspapers, to get it, by hook or by crook, out
of my possession, to wait till I was dead and
;stick to it ! I could not trust anybody, I never
did trust anybody ; why should I trust him ?
Was 1 not able to manage my own affairs better
than other people could manage them for me \

Had I not more forethought that the poor ignorant
hh-ehngs by whom I was sounded?

I would wait. Everything comes to him who
waits, they say, even gold watches with monograms
in diamonds on their backs. I should hear
of the man presently, and failing to hear of him
in a year or two — say in a month or two — one
might reasonably presume that the watch would
never be inquired for. But what had become
of him ?

I looked in the Fechenaher Observer every
week— I could always get a glimpse of that badly
conducted periodical — for an account of an
« accident to a tourist.' Never a word. I read
the contents-bills of all the other papers outside
the stationers' shops ; there was not a line in big
type recording any disaster on the Chocadoc
road. All kinds of accidents except the accident
that had happened to him.

There were no advertisements for missing
property either, no rewards offered for the recovery
of a valuable gold chronometer. I had
to look at that watch twenty times a day to
make sure that I had really got it. I cannot

assert that it Alas a comfortable acquisition ; I
had to keep it loose in my trousers pocket like
an apple, and to sleep with it at the bottom of
the bed like a foot-wander ; I was always in
dread of its being discovered on me, of my being-regarded
as a receiver of stolen goods — of my
being remanded at police-courts until inquires
were made, and the inquiries bringing the owner
foi-^-ard with his whole story, which he, if of an
imaginative turn of mind, could twist round to
my disadvantage. There were times when I
thought it would be better to sell it and have
done with it : but a man in the infamous livery
of Fechenaber workhouse offering for sale a
watch and chain of that description seemed too
suggestive of robbery and murder for a sane
man to risk. I would wait a little longer.

I believe the possession of the watch, and the
constant workings of an overwrought mind as
to what had become of the missing man,
stretched me at last upon a sick-bed. I felt it
coming on by degrees, so I had time to prepare
for the crisis. I was sure that it would not do
fen the watch to be discovered in my possession

whilst I lay defenceless in bed, so I went out
for the last bit of stone-breaking I felt I should
do for a long time, put the watch and chain in
my tobacco-pouch, wrapped the tobacco-pouch
in last week's Observer spat on the lot for luck,
and buried my treasure under a big beech-tree,
which had been struck by lightning years ago,
and which lay to the right of the third milestone
from Fechenaber. And then I went back
to the poorhouse and took to my bed like a
lamb.

It was only my usual winter's complaint —
rheumatics and that kind of thing allied to a
compound wheeze ; but I had had it — oh, nice
and regularly — every winter, and was pretty
well prepared for it. I was sorry it had come
on earlier than usual, and so were the people at
the house, because I had rather more of their
company, and they had rather more of mine,
than was altogether conducive to perfect harmony
between us. 1 never could get on with
them long together — they were not of my mental
calibre. There was nothing in common between
us but our poverty ; and as for the infirmity

nurses and the master of the house, they
Avere as ignorant a lot as one might naturally
expect in such an out-of-the-way corner of South
Wales as Fechenaber was.

It was a very sharp turn at last with me, for
I turned the corner by the merest shave. I was
so sure that I was marked out for a premature
decease, and that the world would find out too
late what a man it had had in its midst and
cruelly ignored, that the watch got upon my
mind again, and I talked in my sleep so much
about it, and the diamonds on the back, and J.
W. L., and milestones and beech-trees, that
they shaved my head to keep me cool and
comfortable. I sent for my gi-granddaughter when
I was at my worst. Kitty and I had not agreed
very well of late days ; she had manned without
my consent a hulking brute of a dock labourer,
who did menial work about the harbour at
Borthmouth, and I had expressed myself forcibly
upon the disgrace to the Penprases such a
match had been, and we had not spoken since
the marriage. But one forgets family feuds
when the breath is short and there is a rattle in

the throat ; at least I did, not being a malicious
man. Besides, there were a watch and chain
hidden under a beech-tree three miles from
Fechenaber, and I did not want any property
of mine to go out of the family — to lie idle for
eyer and eyer under the ground like my very
unfortunate self.

Kitty responded to my call, and, much to my
surprise and vexation, she brought her husband
with her. I did not want to see him ; he was
essentially a vulgar man, with a voice like a
bull of Bashan's and a fist like a shoulder of
mutton. He was one of your big men, and big-men
laye always been my abomination. They
have never any intellect. I am small myself :
so was Napoleon, Nelson, Victor Hugo — were
not they ? — and a great many more that I could
mention if I had the time to recollect them. 1
do not quite know how it is, but I always distrust
a big man. 1 distrusted Thomas Griffiths,
and when they came I did not breathe a syllable
about the watch and chain, and I think they
wondered why I had sent a message in such a
tremendous hurry, saying that I was ill and had

something particular to say before I died, aud
then only lav and coughed at them for an .
Kitty was very much distressed at
my condition, as well she might be, and cried
a great deal, as well she might do, considering
how she had neglected me and failed to appreciate
me.

• He's the only relation I have in the worlds
Tom,' she sobbed.

Tom looked as if he thought that was an
advantage rather than otherwise if I were to betaken
as a sample, but he had the common
decency to keep his mouth shut. But 1 could
read him well enough. 1 knew what was
passing in his mind, for all his bovine stare at
me.

Tm sure this nasty workhouse is killing him,
Tom. Tu think that my own and only grandfather
should have to die in the Union I' she
went on.

There's many a better nor him have had to
come to it,' was the brute's answer ; ' it looks
comfortable and clean.'

It's the air and the position that's preying

on him. But grandfather always was so — so —
so '

Stock up ?' suggested her husband.

'Proud like. And he was clever too — very.
Oh, Tom,' she cried, ' don't you think we could
take care of the poor old fellow till he died !'

I don't mind,' he said ; 'if it please you,
lass, have him. It isn't nice sartine' — he always
said ' sartine ' — ' to have to own the parish
planted the poor old boy.'

And I might nurse him and bring him round
again. Who knows V she said.

Tom did not seem to regard this point of
^^ew with as much favour as the last suggestion,
but he did not make any comment upon it.
Bringing me round had, I daresay, to his little
mind, its drawbacks.

They had their way. I let them have it.
They carried me from Fechenaber to Boi-th-
mouth, where Kitty did the nursing very well.
I had nothing to complain about except the
weak character of the beef-tea, and the noise
her husband made, tramping in and out of the
place in iron-cased boots that shook the whole

house like a jelly. Kitty brought me round, as
she had thought she might do.

Thus I was free of the poorhouse and of
stone-breaking in my latter days; and Kitty
bought me a whole ream of paper and a box of
pens, and sat me by the side of the fire, and said,

Now write, grandfather, something that shall
astonish us at last

It will keep him quiet, at any rate,' her husband
said, gruffly, and I did not thank him for
the observation. Keep me quiet indeed ! As if
I made one quarter of the thundering row which
he did upon the premises.

My granddaughter had some of the family
pride in her — on her mother's side, of course.

'I hope you will not say anything about
Fechenaber poorhouse, gi'andad,' she said tome
one day. ' There's no occasion you should
own to that, and lower us.'

I'll never mention it, Kitty,' was my promise
to her. Not that 1 should have been likely to
mention it. Why, everybody in Borthmouth
thought that I lived most of my time in London,
engaged in literary pursuits. I had told them so

myself. No one could have dreamt that a man
of my general appearance and attainments had
broken stones on the Fechenaber road, or that
I loiew as inch as where the road was. And
that road was troubling me. I wanted to be on
it, and to get my hidden treasure into my own
hands again. It would be more easy to dispose
of in this neighbourhood ; some master-skipper
might take a fancy to it, and give me a round
sum down, without asldng any questions. What
was the use of my treasure to me when I had
not benefited one farthing by it ? I had kept it
long enough for the rightful owner to turn up
and claim it surely. Then why didn't he ? But
what excuse could 1 make to get towards
Fechenaber, and how was I to raise the capital
to meet the expenses of the journey i Tom
Griffiths was a covetous sort of man, and kept
me cruelly short of pocket-money.

You can jog along if I find you in dacca,
dad,' he said ; and so I jogged along without
much thanks to him.

I had been about eight months With the
Griffiths, when a chance seemed to present itself

of getting Fechenaber way. Some people
in the town were moving in that direction —
shopkeepers who supplied me with stationery —
and their goods and chattels were to go by road
and take two days. It was summer-time again,
and I suggested that I thought that the ride
and change of air, and the violent exercise of
hanging on to the tail-board of a van without
springs, would do me good. So it was settled,
though it was not a journey that was ever to
come off.

The day before the expedition I was at the
extreme end of the stone jetty, or harbour, as
they please to call it, ostensibly watching the
fishing-boats come in, but planning out my
scheme to reach the stricken beech-tree on the
high-road without arousing the suspicions of
those by whom I should be accompanied.

It was nearly sunset, and a fine, calm, evening.
I was looking out to sea, with my back to
the town and to the jetty along which I had
come for a breath of fresh air. The Griffiths's
house was always uncommonly stuffy. I knew
somebody was advancing by the rattle of heels

upon the cobble stones, but I did not look round.
I was not curious to know who it was. Very
likely it might be Tom Griffiths come to fetch
me home, and put me to bed like a baby. They
treated me like a child — and that was another
drop in the cup of bitterness, which I had to
quaff to the brim.

Yes — sit was Tom Griffiths, but not alone.
There was a stranger with him — a young man
in a dark blue suit, I saw when I turned round
at their call.

Daddy,' said Tom, ' here's a gentleman been
all over Borthmouth inquiring for you. Here he
is, sir,' to the gentleman ; * that's Mr. Penprase.*

I thought I should have sHd off my stone post
into the sea when I saw who it was. My head
swam, and my eyes tried to pop out of my head,
and my heart went galloping on anyhow. It
was the man who had come to grief on the
Chocadoc road twelve months ago !

He walked up to me and faced me. He had
not altered much since I had seen him last, and
there was the same ridiculous inclination to
burst out laughing which I had noticed last

PENPRASE THE Stone-BREAKER. 273

tinie. There was an ugly scar in the middle of
his forehead, which one could see very distinctly,
as he wore a straw hat on the extreme back
f his head, like a ' silly Charge.'

Mr. Penprase,' he said, ' I am very glad to
find you. I had almost given up the hope of
ever coming across you again. How are you?'

I did not answer. My thoughts did not flow
as rapidly as they used when I was Visiting
for the magazines. I wanted time for cool
reflection.

Don't you know me,' he added.

I never set eyes on you in all my Hfe before,'
1 said, with a vacant stare at him.

You dont know me V

'No.'

Don't 3'ou remember my meeting with an
accident on the Chocadoc road?'

I never saw anybody meet an accident, It's
time enough for an accident when it comes,
isn't it f

He threw his head back and laughed again.

•• Ah I you are a sharp old boy — I remember.
My memory is better than yours, you see. You

VOL. III. T

were In-making stones on the high-road when I
first saw you.'
Doing what V

Breaking stones.'

I've had my trials, but I've never come down
to that. Only workhouse people break stones.'

swell, you'd come from the workhouse at
Fechenaber. You said so yourself.'

I never heard tell of such a place.'

The man looked puzzled — as well he might.
I did it very well. I was on my guard now,
and acted to the life. I have often thought I
should have made a most excellent actor had I
ever had the chance.

Your name is Penprase V

That's my name, sure enough. I don't deny
that.'

It's not a common name.'

There are plenty of that name in these
parts.'

And you're not the Penprase who was laid
up last winter in the infirmary of Fechenaber
poorhouse V he asked, to my surprise. He had
been there after me, the sneak — he had been

scouring South Wales for me. I must keep to
my own story at any cost till I had time to think
what was best to be done.

No,' I answered, ' I am not that Penprase.'

Gosh I' suddenly cried out that stupid ass
Griffiths.

What's the matter with you T asked the
young man, wheeling himself round, and looking
up into Tom's face.

'Left — pipe — at home,' said Tom, who could
tell a he sharp enough when he liked ; and
away he clattered down the pier as hard as he
could go, and left us both — as he owned afterwards
— ' to fight it out twixt us.' Which was
mean of him.

What protection had I, if this stranger were
suddenly to lose his temper and tell me I was
a thief? I looked after Tom — I called after
him, but he did not or he would not hear me ;
and there was 1 left alone with my persecutor —
perhaps my prosecutor presently — who could
tell ? I broke into a cold perspiration at the
very thought of it. Why, the man might begin
bawling for a policeman within the next five

minutes ; he had left off that silly grin of his,
and was regarding me now gravely.

'You have been ill, haven't you?' he asked,
when we were alone together.

'I don't know that I have.'

• Your grandson-inlaw owned as much as
that. Since you have been here, 1 mean ?' he
said.

I'm an old man, and likely to feel queerish
now and then. What are you asking me all
these questions for ? '

I thought perhaps your memory might have
gone lately. I hope it has.'

That's very kind of you,' I replied, ' but it's
as good as ever it was.'

And yet you do not remember my spill on the
road near the Chocadoc Falls, and your running
off to get water — and whilst you were running
a cart came by and took me and my broken
traps off to the first doctor — and a deuce of a
long way off he lived. But — he patched me up.'

I'm sorry to hear you have been hurt,
young man, — but — I don't know anything about
you.'

I should have come to Fechenaber to see
you as soon as I got well — but my leave was up
and I had to join my ship. It's only lately that
I have got back to Wales and managed to get
this way again.'

What did you want to see me for — or the
poor pauper that you take for me V I asked.

I thought 1 must ask that question, though 1
Alas afraid of what was coming and knew — as
I thought — what would be his answer. But he
took my breath away by saying,

To reward the old man for all the trouble he
took to get life into me. To thank him for the
run he had for the water which I never stopped
to ch-ink. x\nd by Jove it must have been a
run ! 1 have been to that break-neck valley
since, and it's a rare up and down and it takes it
out of a fellow.'

It's a dreadful place '

'Eh?'

I have heard,' I concluded. * I don't know
anything about it personally.'

Well, then, I won't take up your time any
longer, Mr. Penprase.'

Thanked.'

T ours is a wonderful likeness to the other
gentleman at the Union ; and you — but it is getting
late. Bj Jove, it must be close upon eight
o'clock.'

He drew from his pocket a handsome
gold chronometer — the chronometer ! — with the
Jewel. in diamonds flashing at the back. I
could have sworn to it anywhere. I was nevermore
completely taken off my guard ; my knees
knocked together, and my white hair seemed
stiffening into wires.

'Where the devil did you get that?' I
shrieked out. * That's mine !'

Is your name James Walter Lidgey, or Paul
Penprase V

Penprase ; but, for God's sake, tell me how
you got that watch. Give it me : it's mine ! it's
mine !'

I was beside myself; I was showing my hand
now ; I was jumping head first into the trap. 1
was an old fool.

This can't be yours,' he said ; ' this was stolen
from me when I lay helpless on the Chocadoc

road. It was a watch given to me by one
whose life I had saved at sea, and I treasure it
very much. When 1 came back from my last
voyage, I thought I would find you out and ask
if you knew anything about it. I was certain
that some one had robbed me, and, though I was
sorry, I fancied it must be you.'

Oh I I looked like a thief, I suppose. Go on,'
I said.

You had told me you were in the poorhouse,
and I went to look for you there. You had left.
Then I found out the parish doctor and he gave
me your address. I inquu-ed into your case, and
he said you were a rum old stick.'

He was a disrespectful hound. But he was
always like that.'

'He told me that you had been very ill — completely
off your head at last, and raved of
nothing but your own cleverness, gold watches,
milestones, and the beech-tree that was struck
by lightning on the Fechenaber road. I put
this and that together ; I went carefully along
the road and found a tree that had been struck
by lightning near the third milestone from the

town. I guessed that you had buried the
propei-tj there. I had half-author's digging
with a garden trowel, and found a watch along
with some other things which don't belong tome.
I have left a tobacco-pouch and a few
things, on vom- mantelpiece at home, Mr. Pen-praise,
if they're any good to you now.'

I did not say any more. I did not know
what to say. It was a complete checkmate tome,
and I was powerless. If I had been a
younger man, I should have punched his head,
I dare say, or showed a clean pair of heels
down the causeway, and out of the town — probably
done the latter as less embarrassing. But
I was old ; I had been ill ; I was very feeble and
at his mercy, and he took every advantage of
my mental prostration. It did not strike me
that he was one who would make an example of
me — only an artful fellow who had got the
better of me. Not a stern and rig-id individual,
or he would not have been able to laugh at
everything so much.

And he began laughing again when I took my
handkerchief out to wipe my eyes.

There, poor old beggar,' he said. • We'll
say uo more about it.'

I saved your life, sir,' I said, making no
attempt to disguise facts any more.

Well, perhaps you did. And you took care
of my watch too — and would have told me all
about it, and where it was hidden if 1 had not
taken you so much off your guard. Eh, Paul
Penprase V

'Yes — I think— I should have told you — intime.'


I will try and tlu'nk so. I hope y< »u ^\'ill try
too — for you are a very old man and '

Not so very old, sir. And I've got all my
faculties about me still.'

'One or two faculties too many,' he said,
laughing ; and I have often wondered what he
meant by that, ' but you are old.'
I am not a young man certainly.'
Trs' to see the matter in tht light light,
before you get much older, Penprase,' he said,
it won't do you any harm when you come to
the flat of your back again, with not too much
time to think it over. Good evening.'

And away he went without giving me so
much as a sixpence for taking care of all that
property which he must have lost if it had not
been for me. There is no end of ingratitude in
this world. 1 have seen a lot of it in my time,
goodness knows.

THE END.

LONDON: PRINTED BT DUNCAN MACDONALD. BLENHEIM House

HURST & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, W.



Messrs. HUEST MD Blacker's

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

RECORDS OF SERVICE AND CAMPAIGNING

IN MANY LANDS. By Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., O.B.,
Author of ' Reminiscences of Military Service-with the 93rd
Sutherland Highlanders,' &c. Dedicated by Permission to
H. R. H. THE PRINCESS LOUISE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"All who love to read of the exploits of a small but almost invincible army
will be thankful to Dr. Munro for his spirited book," — Publishers' Circular.

"A very entertaining book." — Bookseller,

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," &c 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

The cheerful and observant authoress has much that is new to tell us"— Z>ai7t/
Telegraph.

"through Cyprus' maybe heartily commended to readers who are fond of
an entertaining and chatty narration of incidents of travel— Scotsman.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF HANOVER. By the Rev. C.
A. Wilkinson, M.A., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.
Second and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With portrait of
the King. 6s.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures of the Period in which She
Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Molloy, Author of " Court Life
Below Stairs," &c. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo.
With Portrait. 6s.

Shinar SKETCHES: With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. Moray Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4:to. 10s. 6d.

•'A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman"— ^ar«e and Hour.
"The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,

and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to 'knom.'— Scotsman.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

Ashton, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.
1 vol. small-ito. 12s.
The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume"— (J/ote.

NEW WORKS— Continued.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, M.A., Author of 'The County Families, ' &c.
2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels"— Z>aiVy Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading"— Z»rti7?/ News.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Rote,

Barrister at-Law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated

by Maps and Plans. sos.
Mr. Boyle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe
not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with
it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards
mastering the difficult Egyptian question"— Athenaeum.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will acquit Mr. Boyle
of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding." — St. James's Gazette.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Cadet. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With Mapof Route. 15s.
"The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
subject." — Morning Post.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Milford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.
These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Milford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention"— Z>ai7!/ Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference

to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Let land. 2
vols. 21s.
"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success." — Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family." — Graphic.

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE CHORISTER.

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company"— Times.

These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr. Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

Mr Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout." — Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating"— ;Sco<s?/ja«.



THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By John Cord Jefferson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," "A Book about Doctors," "A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

"Those who have read Mr. Jefferson's account of Byron will he prepared to

And that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of ma.v.y:'—Jfoming Post.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.
Vols. 1 and 2 demy 8vo. SOs.
The work is likely to be of permanent value to the students of history"—
Morning Post.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Pirjxs to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will brighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through its.
pages and its numerous illustrations." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private CoRRESPO>n)E>'CE and Original Documents, 1784 —
1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy Bvo. sos.
This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity." — Athenaeum.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.

With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
"A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest."
St. James's Gazette.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject"— 5a<«rrfaj/ Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
"ewe recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance." — St. James's Gazette.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Quek>j
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 53.

LODGE'S PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.
Fifty-six TH EDifTo N FOR 1887.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the realm, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical "View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary KoU of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood RoyaL

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Somme of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


"This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It ia
most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the subject." — Spectator:

A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day"— Posh.



Now ready i in one vol. small 4fo, ^:)rice lock. ^d.
With Eight Illustrations by J. C. Dolman, Ei.

Shinar SKETCHES

WITH NOTES ON INDIAN FIELD SPORTS.

By J. MORAY BROWN,

Late 79th Cameron Highlanders.

6]^imotts of i\t ^WSS.

The author goes through the round of Indian sport, and writes in
such a pleasant fashion as to make his pages agreeable reading to all for
whom the subject itself has attractions ; the book has the additional
advantage of some spirited illustrations.' — The Field.

'A glorious book ; it is palpably the work of a true sportsman, and,
whilst firing the young to emulate glorious deeds of sport in our Indian
Empire, it will make the blood flow faster in the veins of many old
sportsmen, and recall scenes of excitement such as must have been participated
in to be thoroughly appreciated.' — Horse and Hound.

The book is vivacious throughout, and is well worthy of a place on
the table and in the library.' — Publishers' Circular.

The sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy
narrative, and containing just those particulars which a sportsman
desires to know.' — Scotsman.

Captain Moray Brown tells his story well, and is so genuine an
enthusiast himself that he very quickly makes his reader one too.' —
Land and Water.

This book contains records of some exceedingly interesting incidents
of Indian sport.' — St. James's Gazette.

A work of singular interest and weight, and one which should find a
place in the library of all true sportsmen.' — Morning Post.

Every Englishman who has been to India, or hopes to go there,
should possess and value this delightful book.' — Daily Telegraph.

This is a most interesting account of hunting expeditions in India,
told with evident avoidance of exaggeration or embellishment.' — Literary
World.

Mr. moray Brown writes in an animated and sprightly style, not
without occasional dashes of fancy and humour, which greatly add to
the charm of his book.' — Home News.

Nearly every kind of Indian sport is described, and with a liveliness,
vigour, and dash that carry the reader along ; we can heartily praise the
accompanying illustrations. — Graphic.

LONDON : HUEST AND Blackett, LIMITED.

OF

FEa T\^OFFi]sraTO]sr

WITH

PICTURES OF THE PERIOD IX WHICH SHE LIVED.

By J. FITZGERALD Molly,

Author of ' Court Life Below Stairs,' Etc.

opinions jos i^t dress.

'Peg Wellington makes a most interesting central figure, round
which Mr. Molloy has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama
of London life in the middle of the 18th century. He sees things
in the past so clearly, grasps them so tenaciously, and reproduces them
so vividly that they come to us without any of the dust and rust of
time.' — G. A. S. in the Illustrated London News.

IMr. Molly's work has the merit at least of being from the first
chapter to the last without a single dub page. — Daily News.

As a story, this life of Peg Wellington is excellent reading. Mr.
Molloy has filled up the pages intervening between his sketches of Peg
Washington with anecdotes, and has succeeded in presenting a picture
of the stage world in the days of the second George which could not
easy be surpassed.' — Morning Post.

]\Jt. Molloy gives a series of vivid pictures of the period in which
Peg Wellington lived, and of the men and manners of that time ; those
who read his book wil be pleased alike by his handling of his subject
and by the pleasant style of the writer.' — Graphic.

In dealing with the literary and dramatic personages of the period,
Mr. Molloy is a faithful chronicler not only in spirit but also as to fact,
and there is no prominent personage about whom a number of characteristic
anecdotes are not told.' — 5^. James'' Gazette.

This pleasant book presents the best and most reliable account of
Peg Washington's life that has yet been produced.' — Scotsman.

Mr. Molly's sketches display some literary merit, and, we doubt
not, there is a wide class of readers to whom they wil prove highly
acceptable.' — Literary World.

This work will be as welcome to the patrons of the library as the
last novel, for it is quite as interesting as the average novel, and has
the advantage of being founded on fact.' — Era.

Vir. Molloy writes so pleasantly of any theme he takes up, that it
may readily be understood that with such promising material to work
upon he has produced as bright and entertaining a study of life and
manners as could be desired.' — Society.

LONDON : HUEST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

Reminiscences OF THE COURT And Tries

OF

KING ERNEST OF HANOVER

BY

THE REV. C. Alli Wilkinson, M.A.

HIS majesty's Resident DOilESTIC Chaplain.

opinions oi it dress.

mr. "Wilkinson's descriptions of the Court balls, where even the ladies
took precedence according to military rank, of the characters he met
with, and of the Hanoverian clergy of those days, will be found decidedly
interesting.' — Spectator.

There is no doubt Mr. Wilkinson has written one of the best books
of the season ; it contains an extraordinary number of diverting anecdotes
which alone would suffice to ensure it a large measure of popularity.'
— London Figaro.

iSIr. Wilkinson's book wil deserve a place among contemporary
studies of the lives and teachings of typical representatives of his cloth.'
Academy.

An interesting book, which abounds in characteristic stories of the
old king, in anecdotes of many celebrities, English and foreign, of the
early part of this century, and, indeed, of aU kinds and conditions of
men and women with whom the author was brought in contact by his
courtly or pastoral office.' — St. James's Gazette.

Mr. "Wilkinson's book is full of interest of various kinds ; his facts
and anecdotes are pleasantly narrated, and they wil be found to well
repay perusal' — The Queen.

'Altogether a good deal of amusement is to be found in this book.' —
Literary World.

One of the most interesting and amusing books ; it abounds in good
and new stories of King Ernest, and also a host of celebrities, both
English and German.' — Truth.

'On the whole, Mr. "Wilkinson was well justified in printing his
recollections, which are calculated to while away an hour or two very
agreeably and innocently.' — Globe.

There is much in this book that is amusing and curious, and it contains
materials for a vivid picture of King Ernest and his surroundings.'
Scotsman.

LONDON: HUEST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

MRS. Oliphant.

Each in Ore Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

ADAM Gramme OF MOSSGRAY.

' Adam Gramme ' is a story awakening genuine emotions of interest and delight by its
admirable pictures of Scottish life and scenery. The plot is cleverly complicated, and
there is great vitality in the dialogue, and remarkable brilliancy in the descriptive passages,
as who that has read 'Margaret MaUand' would not be prepared to expect?
But the story has a 'mightier magnet still,' in the healthy tone which pervades it, in its
feminine delicacy of thought and diction, and in the truly womanly tenderness of its
sentiments. The eloquent author sets before us the essential attributes of Christian
virtue, their deep and silent workings in the heart, and their beautiful manifestations in
the life, with a delicacy, a power, and a truth which can hardly be surpassed"— i/^omtn^
Pool

THE LAIRD OF NORLAW.

'we have had frequent opportunities of commending Messrs. Hurst and Blackett
Standard Library. For neatness, elegance, and distinctness the volumes in this series
surpass anything with which we are familiar. ' The Laird of Norlaw ' will fully sustain
the author's high reputation. The reader is carried on from first to last with an energy
of sympathy that never G.a.gs."— Sunday Times.

' The Laird of Norlaw ' is worthy of the author's reputation. It is one of the most
exquisite of modem novels"— Oiwerrer.

IT WAS A LOVER AND HIS LASS.

"In 'It was a Lover and his Lass,' we admire Mrs. Oliphant exceedingly. Her story is
a very pretty one. It would be worth reading a second time, were it only for the sake of
one ancient Scottish spinster, who is nearly the counterpart of the admirable Mrs. Margaret
Maitland. "—ZYme*.

AGNES.

'Agnes' is a novel superior to any of Mrs. Oliphant's former works." — AtTieTiceum.

"Mrs. Oliphant is one of the most admirable of our novelists. In her works there are
always to be found high principle, good taste, sense, and refinement ' Agnes ' ia a story
whose pathetic beauty will appeal irresistibly to all readers"— Morning Post.

A ROSE IN JUNE.

' A Rose in June ' is as pretty as its title. The story is one of the best and most
touching which we owe to the industry and talent of Mrs. Oliphant, and may hold its own
with even ' The Chronicles of Langford.' "times.

PHOEBE, JUNIOR.

"This last 'Chronicle of Carlingford' not merely takes rank fairly beside the first
which introduced us to ' Salem Chapel,' but surpasses all the intermediate records.
Phoebe, Junior, herself is admirably drawn"— .4c(wfemy.

LIFE OF THE REV. EDWARD IRVING.

"A good book on a most interesting theme." — Times.

"A truly interesting and most affecting memoir. 'Irving's Life' ought to have a niche
in evei-y gallery of religious biography. There are few lives that will be fuller of instruction,
interest, and consolation." — Saturday Review.

LONDON : HUEST AND Blackett, LIMITED.

George MAG DONALD, LL.D.

Each in One Volume, Frontispiece, and Uniformly Bound, Price 5s.

ALEC FORBES OF Howled.

"No account of this story would give any idea of the profound interest that pervades
the work from the first page to the last." — Athenaeum.

A novel of uncommon merit Sir Walter Scott said he would advise no man to try
to read ' Clarissa Harlowe ' out loud in company if he wished to keep his character for
manly superiority to tears. We fancy a good many hardened old novel-readers will feel
a rising in the throat as they follow the fortunes of Alec and Annie"— Pall Mall Gazette.

"The whole story is one of surpassing excellence and beauty"— Z)at7y News.

This book is full of good thought and good writing. Dr. Mac Donald looks in his stories
more to the souls of men and women than to their social outside. He reads life and
Nature like a true poet"— Examiner.

ROBERT FALCONER.

"' Robert Falconer ' is a work brimful of life and humour and of the deepest human
interest It is a work to be returned to again and again for the deep and searching
knowledge it evinces of human thoughts and feelings"— ^^Aencewm.

"This story abounds in exquisite specimens of the word-painting in which Dr. Mac
Donald excels, charming transcripts of Nature, full of light, air, and colour-saturday
Review.

This noble story displays to the best advantage all the powers of Dr. Mac Donald's
genius." — Illustrated London New.

• Robert Falconer ' is the noblest work of Action that Dr. Mac Donald has yet produced."
— British Quarterly Review.

The dialogues in ' Robert Falconer ' are so finely blended with humour and pathos as
to make them in themselves an intellectual treat to which the reader returns again and
again." — Spectator.

DAVID ELGINBROD.

♦♦ A novel which is the work of a man of genius. It will attract the highest class of
readers"— rimes.

"There are many beautiful passages and descriptions in this book. The characters are
extremely well drawn." — Athenaeum.

"A clever novel. The incidents are exciting, and the interest is maintained to the
close. It may be doubted if Sir Walter Scott himself ever painted a Scotch fireside with
more truth than Dr. Mac Donald." — Morning Post.

David Elginbrod is the finest character we have met in fiction for many a day. The
descriptions of natural scenery are vivid, truthful, and artistic; the general reflections are
those of a refined, thoughtful, and poetical philosopher, and the whole moral atmosphere
of the book is lofty, pure, and invigorating'— G'^ode.

SIR GIBBIE.

•* ' Sir Gibbie ' is a book of geniuses PaZZ Mall Gazette,

"This book has power, pathos, and humour. There ia not a character which is not
lifelike. There are many powerful scenes, and the portraits will stay long in our
memory." — Athenaeum.

' Sir Gibbie ' is unquestionably a book of genius. It abounds in humour, pathos,
insight into character, and happy touches of description." — Graphic.

"sir Gibbie' contains some of the most charming writing the author has yet produced"—
scotsman.

"' Sir Gibbie ' is one of the most touching and beautiful stories that has been written
for many years It is not a novel to be idly read and laid aside ; it Is a grand work, to b»
kept near at hand, and studied and thought over"— Coming Post.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo, 6s.

DONOVAN:

A MODERN ENGLISHMAN.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. ' Donovan ' is a very excellent novel ; but it is
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time." — Standard.

' Donovan ' is told with the power of truth, experience, and moral insight The tone
of the novel is excellent and very higher'— Daily News.

"V^E TTVO.

"This book is well written and full of interest. The story abounds with a good many
light touches, and is certainly far from lacking in incident." — Times.

' We Two ' contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyall is a capable writer and a clear-headed thinker"— ^fAenceum.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought"— Scotsman.

Ils THE aOEDEN DAYS.

Miss Lyall has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney ; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads." — Spectator.

'In the Golden Days ' is an excellent novel of a kind we are always particularly glad
to recommend. It has a good foundation of plot and incident, a thoroughly noble and
wholesome motive, a hero who really acts and suffers heroically, and two very nice
heroines. The historical background is very carefully indicated, but is never allowed to
become more than background"— G'warcZjare.

AVOIST BY ^YAITINa.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters — the learned Cornelia especially ;
—the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins
their affection, is thoroughly charming; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real WiQ."'— Academy.

'won by Waiting 'is a very pleasing and well-written tale; full of graphic descriptions
of French and English life, with incidents and characters well sustained. A book
with such pleasant reading, and with such a healthy tone and influence, is a great boon
to the young people in our families." — Freeman.

LONDON : Hurst AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS.

Now Ready at all Libraries in 3 vols, croivn 8vo,

Knight-errant.

By Edda Lyell,

Author of " Donovan-We Two' 'ein the Golden Days."

opinions of the ^r^ss.

'knight-Errant" is marked by the author's best qualities as a
writer of fiction, and displays on every page the grace and quiet power
of her former works.' — AtJienxum.

The plot, and, indeed, the whole story, is gracefully fresh and very
charming ; there is a wide humanity in the book that cannot fail to
accomplish its author's purpose." — Literary World.

Since the days of Mrs. Gaskell, we remember no story that we have
read with greater pleasure.' — Publishers' Circular.

A charming story, related with the dainty grace of an admirable
style. ' — Bookseller.

Among all the stories, real or fictitious, of Italian brigandage which
we have read, there is none more striking, picturesque, and terrible
than this.' — Spectator.

The novel is imbued with deep spiritual and religious feeling ; it
teaches the best lessons of Christianity in the best spirit — the spirit
most allied to charity and most removed from sect.' — Scotsman.

Certainly a pretty and touching tale.' — Illustrated News.

This novel is distinctly helpful and inspiring from its high tone, its
intense human feeling, and its elevated morality. It forms an additional
proof, if such were needed, that Miss LyaU has a mandate to write.' —
Academy.

In this excellent novel every character is well drawn, every scene
well painted, and every incident well told.' — Murray's Magazine.

This is the story of a lofty ideal, and very gracefully and sympathetically
worked out.' — Queen.

LONDON : HURST AND BLxVCKETT, LIMITED.

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo.

HIS LITTLE M:OTIIEI^.

By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."

' His Little Mother ' is one of those pathetic stories which the author tells better
than anybody else." — John Bull.

"This book is written with all Mrs. Crank's grace of style, the chief charm of which,
after all, is its simplicity"— (rtop^aw? Herald.

MY LORD end MY LA.r)Y.

By Mrs. Forrester.

"A very^capital novel The great charm about it is that Mrs. Forester is quite at hom
in the society which she describes. It is a book to read." — Standard,

Mrs. Forrester's style is so fresh and graphic that the reader is kept under its spell
from first to \s.^i,"— Morning Post.

S O F H Y.

By Violet Fane.

' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of a strikingly
unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human interest It is,
in a word, a novel that will make its mark." — World.

J^ HOUSE FA.RTY.

By OuiDA.

' A House Party ' will be read, firstly, because it is Guida's, and, secondly, because of
the brightness of the conversations and descriptions. It is indeed more like a comedy
than any other of the writer's books." — Globe.

OMIsTTA. Veritas.

By JNIrs. Forrester.

This book is pleasant and well meant. Here and there are some good touches. Sir
Ralph is a man worth reading about"— Academy.

This tale is well and cleverly written ; the characters are drawn and sustained with
considerable power, and the conversation is always bright and lively." — Glasgow Herald.

BETRAY Al OF REUBEN HOLT.

By Barbara Lake.

This novel shows considerable power of writing. There are some striking scenes and
incidents." — Scotsman.

"This tale displays elevation of thought and feeling, united to no little grace of
expression." — Post.

THE ER-A.NDRETIIS.

;By the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.

The great attraction of this novel is the easy, conversational, knowledgeable tone of
it ; the sketching from the life, and yet not so close to the life as to be malicious, men,
women, periods, and events, to all of which intelligent readers can fit a name. The
political and social sketches will naturally excite the chief interest among readers who
will be attracted by the authors name and experience"— S^jec^a^or.

LONDON : HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF A LADY in 1814,

1815, 1816. By Hamilton Aid, Author of "Rite," "Penrud-
locke," " Poet and Peer," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.
Mr. Aide's new novel shows an accomplished and agreeable writer at his best

The characters are not numerous, but the individuality of each is sustained all

through, both in speech and action." — Athenaeum.

DRIVEN BEFORE THE STORM. By Gertrude

Force, Author of " In the Old Palazzo," &c. 3 vols.
The authoress stamps her individuality upon what she writes, entering with
a pleasant warm-heartiness into the mimic joys and sorrows of her fancy, and
dwelling upon them with a ready pen and much native eloquence." — Daily
Telegraph

Courtiers. By Anne Beale, Author of "Fay

Arlington," &c. 3 vols.
"There is always a good tone in the novels of Miss Beale. 'Courtesy ' is no
exception to the rule." — Academy.
This is a really agreeable and wholesome story." — Literary World.

VICTIMS. By The Gift, Author of '' Pretty Miss

Belle," " Il Lorimer," &c. 3 vols.
'Victims' is probably the best of its author" s works: there is not a weak or
ill-drawn character in the hoo"— Academy.

TILL MY WEDDING DAY. By a French Lady.

2 vols.

"There is a good deal of characteristic and life-like description, and the variety
of incident through which the several personages of tho story are carried is remarkable"'
— Athenaeum.

THE GREEN HILLS BY THE SEA: A Manx

Story. By Hugh Coleman Davidson. 3 vols.

Some of the 'characters are real human beings, some of the situations are
powerfully conceived, and many of the descriptions are admirable"" — Academy.

Mr. Davidson's imagination is fantastic, as well as original at times, and he
writes a great deal that is pleasant to read and remember"" — Daily Telegraph.

MURIEL'S MARRIAGE. ByEsME Stuart, Author

of " A Faire Dalzell," &c. 3 vols.
"Much of the interest and charm of the story, and both are considerable, are
due to the delineations, not merely of the two principal personages, but of the
minor characters." — Scotsman.

ONCE AGAIN. By Mrs. Forrester, Author of

Viva," " Mignon," " My Lord and My Lady," &c. (Second Edit ions

3 vols.

A really fascinating story. Bright and often original as is sirs. Forrester, her
peculiar gifts have never been seen to better advantage than in 'Once Again.'
An undercurrent of tragedy runs through this startling tale, and this, together
with its graphically drawn characters, sets it completely apart from the ordinary
society story"' — Morning Post.

A WILFUL YOUNG WOMAN. By A. Price,

Author of "A Rustic Maid," " "Who is Sylvia?" &c. 3 vols.
A very readable story. Mrs. Price has drawn her dramatis personae with some
power and vigour." — Academy
'the Story is throughout both sotmd and high-principled"— Z/rerflru World.


PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

WEEPING FERRY. A Novel. By George False.

2 vols.

COULD HE DO BETTER? By Arthur A.

Hoffman. 3 vols.

THE SON OF HIS FATHER. By Mrs. Oliphant,

Author of " It was a Lover and his Lass," " Agnes," &c. 3 vols.
No previous work of Mrs. Oliphant better justifies her high position among
English novelists than her new book. It is difficult to speak too highly of the
truth, power, and pathos of this tale." — Morning Post.

Catherine. By the Author of ''- Lauderdale." 3 vols.

The author is really an able writer, and he has a good grasp of character." —
Academy.

"A moving and animated story'— Daily Telegraph.

Jacob's WIFE. By Adeline Sergeant, Author

of 'No Saint,' ' An Open Foe,' &c. 3 vols.
"The story is one of powerful interest." — Illustrated London News.
"A thoroughly interesting story, and is worth reading in its entirety"—
Literary World.

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of the Deep.

By W. Clack Russell, Author of ' The "Wreck of the Grosvenor,'
&c. 3 vols.
Mr. Clark Russell's new novel has a mystical or spiritualistic foundation, on
which he has constructed a tale of great dramatic power"— J/or7?mgf Post.
"As vivid and vivacious as the best of his hooks'' —Daily Telegraph.

A GREAT PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP. By W.

Button Bernard. 3 vols.
"Mr. Bernard's story is free from digressive description, is brightly told, and its
realism never degenerates into coarseness ; the story is from first to last exciting."
Morning Post.

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

Author of 'Dita,' 'Once More,' ' Sisters-in-law,' &c. 1 vol.
crown 8vo. 6s.
A bright and wholesome stores"— St. James's Gazette.

FROM HEATHER HILLS. By Mi-s. J. Hartley

Perks. 2 vols.
'From Heather Hills' is very pleasant reading indeed. It is healthy without
being violent, subtle without being affected. Mrs. Perks has a grace and delicacy
of touch that is quite cha.vm'mg."— Saturday Review.

Knight-errant. By Edna Lyall, Author of

"Donovan," "We Two," "In the Golden Days," &c. Second

Edition. 3 vols.
' Knight-errant ' is marked by the author's best qualities as a writer of fiction,
and displays on every page the grace and quiet power of her former works.' —
Athenaeum.

A DATELESS BARGAIN. By C. L. Pirkis,

Author of "Lady Lovelace," "Judith Wynne," &c. 3 vols.
' A Dateless Bargain ' has supplied a fresh proof of the author's skill in turning
out very good and workmanlike fiction." — Academy.
"A clever and interesting now eV— Literary World.



^
