.j:^'

■

j k»o<2. * **»*«i

ai B Hay

OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Of ILLINOIS


R792e
vel

ENTRANCED WITH A DREAM.

A NO VEL.

BY

RICHARD Rowland,

AUTHOR OF 'FISHING IN DEEP WATERS.'

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. I.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1883.

[All Rights reserved.]

Crown Svo, cloth, 3s. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready :—
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress " is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — John Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wife." 'john Bull.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read ami pleasant to remember'— John Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

Compared with the former works of the authoress of "The Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour.' — Whitehall Review.

PHYLLIDA. By Florence Marryat.

'"Phyllida" is a novel of which the author may be justly proud.' —
Morning Post.

BARBARA'S WARNING. By the Author of ' Recommended
to Mercy.'

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

3 \S

v.

r °3k^^^^^^^^^sIi^^^-#S

ENTRANCED WITH A DREAM,

CHAPTER I.

jOODCOME HALL, in the parish of
Woodfield, surrounded by a noble
park and many a broad acre of woodland,
meadow, and arable land, has
been for many generations in the possession of
the Harewood family. Early in the present
century the representative of the long line of
owners was Sir Henry Harewood, a man of a
roving disposition, who wandered about from
place to place, chiefly on the Continent, in search
of pleasure which, had he been so minded, he
might have found with less trouble to himself
and more profit to his countrymen at home.

One visit to Woodfield for a few days in the
course of a year was all that he ever attempted,

VOL. I. A

and sometimes even that did not take place ;
when it did, however, it made but little or no
change to the men employed on his estate. A
considerable amount of unusual bustle might be
witnessed in and about the hall, while the gossips
of the village had an opportunity of noting and
commenting on the appearance of the strangers
who accompanied him, but it wrought no sensible
change in the ordinary course of events.

Sir Henry would gallop over the country
with his friends, attended by his agent, and
take a hasty look at his farms. But he did
nothing more. The management of his property
was left entirely in the hands of his agent,
who, taking care to secure his rents, gave little
heed to the character of his tenants, and not
more to their homesteads than would barely
suffice to keep them from falling to pieces.

Up to the age of fifty Sir Henry Harewood
was a confirmed bachelor. At that period his
state of single blessedness was brought to a
close, and with it, to a great extent, his frequent
change of residence. The old family seat was
once more cheered by its master's presence, and
there, within a year of his marriage, his wife
presented him with a son and heir.

Ten years passed away, and Sir Henry was
again a single man. Immediately after the
funeral of his wife he broke up his establishment
at Woodfield, and resumed his old habit

of wandering about on the Continent, apparently
without any purpose in life further than that
which tended to his own personal gratification.

This proved very injurious to his son, whose
education had hitherto been carefully watched
over by his mother. After her death it was
given up into the hands of strangers, with
scarcely any supervision from the father. Having
reached his fourteenth year, he was sent to
Eton, where he acquired extravagant notions
of the influence he would be called upon to
exercise in the world. Being well supplied
with money, and possessed of an aggressive
character, he soon became the head of a little
party of boys of his own age and standing,
which was too often on the border of rebellion
against the constituted authorities of the school
and the master of his boarding-house.

When the time approached for his university
course to commence, he chose Cambridge in preference
to Oxford, from the fact that two or three
of his fast Eton companions were already there,
and he expected more would shortly follow.

Early in the second year of his abode at
Cambridge his habits became so irregular that,
to save him from expulsion, he was obliged to
be withdrawn by his father, who happened at
the time to be in England. As Sir Henry
himself was not overburdened with classical or
mathematical knowledge, he was not inclined

to be very hard upon his son for the want of
inclination he had shown for study, but he rated
him well for the ungentlemanly conduct with
which he was charged, and said he would engagea
private tutor for him, and keep him under his
own eye for the future.

This proved but a poor substitute for the
discipline he so much needed. The gentleman,
after a vigorous attempt to induce his pupil to
work, shortly discovered that if he desired to
retain his appointment, he must be ever ready to
receive an excuse for neglected study, and accept
of promises for future work, which he knew
were not intended to be kept. It was a very
pleasant life to be passing from one gay city to
another with Sir Henry and his son, and so the
tutor wisely determined, for his own interest,
that if he could not do what he would, he would
do what he could to bring his pupil on by
indirect means as far on the road to wisdom ashe
could be induced to accompany him.

The greater part of the year was spent on
the Continent, and chiefly in hotels, where the
knowledge to be acquired was rather of a superficial
character, with but small opportunity for
real useful study, had the youth been inclined to
give his attention to it. So long as he conducted
himself in a gentlemanly manner in his presence,
the father was not disposed to be very curious
respecting his bearing at other times.

At the end of his first year the tutor, feeling
how little he was doing to the advantage of
his pupil, and not being altogether unscrupulous,
found an excuse for resigning his office
and returning to England. He felt that while
he had the youth nominally under his charge,
he would be held responsible for his conduct,
which he only too well knew was irregular.

The youth had now nearly reached his
twentieth year, and it needed but little persuasion
on his part to convince his father
that he knew quite enough of the classics and
mathematics for the public life he intended to
lead when their travels on the Continent should
end.

4 A tutor is all very well for a boy,' he said,
but I think you will now admit that I am a
boy no longer. In the absence of a third person,
I shall be more companionable with you ; and
if at any time you should be invited to a place
where ycu do not want to take me, I shall not
be alone. Your old servant Lea and I will
manage to take care of each other.'

But suppose I should want to take Lea with
me ? ' said Sir Henry.

Then I must manage to take care of myself,"
said the hopeful son, and so the matter ended.

Xo other tutor was sought for, and the young
man was practically at liberty to do as he chose,
so that he was tolerably careful to keep up

appearances before the public, and especially in
the presence of his father.

This state of things having lasted for sometime,
another step was taken in the direction of
unlimited freedom. Their engagements often
separated them from each other for a month or
two. Sir Henry had a predilection for France.
He liked the manners and customs of the people,
while as days passed on his son rather inclined
to those of Germany.

Waywardness was still the predominant feature
in the character of the young man. Whatever
changes took place in him were rather
occasioned by newly-awakened appetites for
pleasure than from any change of principle in
his heart. His father was not niggardly in the
money he placed at his disposal, though it often
proved insufficient for him to meet his engagements,
and then he was obliged to resort to
other means to escape from his temporary difficulty,
so that it became no uncommon thing for
him to borrow of Lea the needful, to be repaid
with interest when he should secure a larger
remittance from his father.

The petty annoyance to which he was thus
subjected threw him into more confidential correspondence
with Lea than with his father, while
it fostered in the former a love of money which
was already implanted in his nature, and encouraged
him to leave honesty behind in his

eager pursuit of gain. The profit he was
making by his young master's follies caused
him to assist in cheating Sir Henry, whoso
long as no pressing complaints came before
him, did not go out of his way to seek for
them.

Had he been more observant of a fathers
duty, many an error his son fell into might have
been avoided, and especially one which w T as the
cause of much pain and sorrow to a young and
too confiding girl. At a village not far from
Heilbroun, the young man, attended by Lea, had
been attracted by a beautiful girl at the door of
a small house in the midst of a garden fragrant
with flowers. Unused to control any passion
that found its way into his heart, he at once declared
to Lea that he was madly in love with her.

This was not the first declaration of the kind
Lea had listened to, and helped him to the gratification
of his desire ; but on the present occasion
he found he had a person to deal with who
valued an unspotted name above the price of
gold. This led him to adopt a scheme with the
aid of a confederate, by going through the ceremony
of marriage, of placing her in the arms of
his young master. The opposition the young
man had met with had so whetted his appetite,
that marriage, real or sham, became to him for
the time a matter of indifference, so that, as he
said, he might call her his own.

And she became his own entirely as far as
she herself was concerned, and at the expressed
desire of her husband, who had been tutored
by Lea for the purpose, consented to retire to
another village and live with him away from the
world until he could find a favourable opportunity
of reconciling his father to their marriage.
Lea, seeing that his young master was
becoming really attached to his wife, suddenly
found himself in rather an awkward position,
and sought immediately to bring about a separation
between them, but this he did not find of
easy accomplishment.

The young man declared that his love grew
more hearty and sincere every day, and that he
wanted little to persuade him to go to his father
and inform him that he had a wife. Lea, seeing
this, was obliged for the present to desist from
the attempt, and wait on circumstances for the
means of carrying out his purpose.

He was too well off in Sir Henry's service to
run the risk of his masters discovering the connection
his son had formed, and he was too
much mixed up with the doings of the son to
act in open opposition to him. He could, therefore,
do nothing but temporise for a while by
supplying the extra means that were required
to meet the increasing household expenses, and
making excuses to Sir Henry for his son growing
so fond of Germany.

1 I don't know what will happen,' said Sir
Henry one day to Lea, ' if my son's attraction
to Germany is to go on increasing as it
has done of late, unless I £o and live there
myself.'

1 You will not do that, I think, Sir Henry.'
said Lea ; ' you like France so much better.'

Yes ; but I cannot afford to be always
separated from my son.'

He said, when he sent me to you yesterday,'
replied Lea, ' that he would be in Paris in the
course of a day or two, and stop a very longtime
with you.'

Within a week he reached his father's hotel ;
but it was only to die there. His wild and
reckless manner of living had rendered him
only too ready to fall a victim to an attack
of typhoid fever he had contracted by the
way, and of so malignant a kind was it, that
ere the son could answer his father's eager
inquiries as to the nature and cause of his illness,
he became unconscious, and so continued
for the next twenty-four hours, when he ceased
to breathe.

The Paris world did not see how severely
Sir Henry felt the blow that had fallen upon
him. For the short time he remained there,
he strove when in company to appear calm and
collected ; but, when alone, his disguise was
thrown off, and he looked as he felt, very miserable.

He had *a great dislike to funereal display,
and had often been heard to argue that
the right place for the dead was the nearest
spot set apart for burials to the house in which
a man might die. ' I hate,' he would say, ' to
hear of a poor body being dragged from one
part of the country to another, with the nonsensical
notion of placing him in the tomb of
his ancestors.'

His idea fell in well with the circumstances
of the present occasion. His son having died
in a hotel, it was necessary that his remains
should be removed as quickly as possible, and
they were accordingly borne to their last 
in Pere la Chaise on the same day he
died.

From the cemetery Sir Henry did not go
back to the hotel from which he had set out
on his mournful errand, but went direct to the
northern terminus, and from thence to Calais,
leaving his servant to settle all his and his
son's affairs, and then to follow him to his
halting-place.

In the course of a few days he was joined
by his servant, and then he crossed over the
Channel to Dover, intending to go on to Wood-field
and shut himself up in the hall, away from
the world and all its delusive pleasures. That,
however, was not to be. The passage across
the Channel was a rough one, and when he

reached Dover, very much depressed in spirits,
he was far from feeling well.

Thinking that he would not be able to
continue his journey for a day or two, instead
of going to his hotel, he ordered the driver to
take him to a private house overlooking the
sea, where he had once stopped before, and
there engaged rooms for a week. Ere the
week, however, had half expired, he was
stretched on a sick-bed, suffering from a severe
attack of paralysis.

Sir Henry had had a younger brother who
married a sister of a gentleman of the name of
Cresswell of Elston Court, about ten miles in
an easterly direction from Woodfield. At the
time of his marriage he held a captaincy in Her
Majesty's service, and shortly afterwards was
ordered abroad. As his young wife was not
then in a fit state to accompany him, it was
arranged that she should remain at Elston Court
until a certain expected event had taken place,
and then go out to her husband.

Unfortunately, within a few weeks of the captain
leaving England, it was privately reported
that he had been struck down with fever. The
sad news was kept from the wife until it was
followed by a certified account of his death, when
it could be no longer hidden from her. Great
was her grief, though the news appeared to
surprise her but very little. From the hour

of their parting a strong presentiment had
possessed her mind that she should never see
him again.

When her friends strove to speak hopefully
to her, and remind her that she had still duties
to perform here, she would answer despondingly,
' They will soon be over And she was
right. In a brief space of time the house was
in deeper mourning, while to her friends was
left the care of a baby boy which she had
presented to them a few hours before her
death.

For a while it was questionable whether the
child was not doomed to lie on the cold bosom
of his mother. But a happy change came,
and a more cheerful tone prevailed respecting
him, and preparations were made for his careful
nursing. Fortunately for him, a brief period
since, a nursery had been required in the house
for a baby girl, the only child of Mr and Mrs
Cresswell.

Captain Harewood died possessed of but
very little property. Before he left England,
he made Mr Cresswell fully acquainted with
his circumstances, and left him, by his will, sole
executor and guardian of his wife and the expected
child.

The condition under which the infant, named
at his baptism Edward, was then placed in the
hands of Mr and Mrs Cresswell, aroused their

warmest sympathy and caused them very shortly
to look upon the little fellow as their own child,
and hence the young cousins grew up, as might
have been expected, so like brother and sister,
that any other relationship could ever exist between
them did not seem to enter the head of
any one.

Edward's fortune, though small, was sufficient
to secure for him a classical education at one
of the public schools, and afterwards allow
him to spend two or three years at Oxford or
Cambridge.

I believe I shall best perform my duty,' Mr
Cresswell said to his wife, ' by seeing that he
has a good education, and is prepared to take
advantage of any opportunity that may present
itself for his advancement in life.'

Hence the course of the orphan's career was
determined upon ere he had scarcely left his
cradle. In due time he escaped from the
nursery, and after having passed through his
elementary studies was introduced to youth's
public life at Harrow, where he shortly gave
proof that, with all with whom he came in
contact, he was able to hold his own.

In his eighteenth year he left Harrow for
Oxford, and there commenced a successful
career at Oriel. Still his correspondence with
his good friends at Elston Court was kept up
in as warm and affectionate a manner as ever,

and so continued during the three years he
spent at college.

Just before leaving home for his last term at
Oxford, Mr Cresswell spoke very seriously to
him upon his near approach to the time when
he would have to commence his work in the
great world on his own account, and urged him
to think well over the matter that he might be
prepared, on leaving the university, to determine
on his future course.

There was something in the manner of his
mentor that impressed the subject strongly on
his mind, and kept it there long after he left
him. On one point he was then, and had been
long, firmly resolved. He would not give himself
up to a life of idleness, even if he could
afford to do so ; but that he knew he could not,
without the sacrifice of his self-respect, which
he valued very highly. He was aware that the
greater part of his little fortune had been
expended on his education, and that whatever
his future prospects might be, his present wants
must be attended to.

That Elston Court, which had ever been open
to him, would still continue so, he well understood,
but he must not rest in idleness there.
No ; he would think very seriously on what Mr
Cresswell had said to him, and with his or his
Uncle Hare wood's assistance, seek for employment
in London, and make his home in the

midst of his work there. And what kind of
home would that be ? Thinking over the
question, he was surprised to find how nearly
the words home and Edith were joined together,
and a fear fell upon his heart that if he left
the one, it would lead to an everlasting separation
from the other.

I cannot stop in the old home with her he
argued, ' and, as a sister, I cannot take her with
me to a new one. He threw himself into a
chair, and pressing his hand to his forehead, sat
for a while still and silent. Then a light suddenly
breaking in upon his mind, he sprang up,
exclaiming as he did so in a tumult of passion,
Yes, I can take her with me. I can ask her to
be my wife.'

In a moment the idea of his preparation for
the examination was cast aside, and the new
one engaged all his attention, while he considered
what he must do in order to deal vigorously
with the emergency that had sprung up
so suddenly before him. ' Perhaps Sir Henry
will, if — No, no, I cannot ask him to help me
with money. But if I could get employment
in a Government office in London, it surely
would not require a very large sum to start us
in a small house. I will write to Mr Cresswell
and tell him of the nature of my love for Edith,
and get his consent, that after I leave Oxford
I may ask her to be my wife. But let me consider.

Would that be fair to Edith ? Would
it not make me appear very selfish, and as if
I wished to bias her father in my favour before
I knew she could return my love as I would
have it ? '

In the course of the day his brain became
somewhat less heated on the all-engrossing
subject, and after much silent debating with
himself, he resolved that for the present he
would not refer to the change that had taken
place in his heart, and continue his correspondence
with his friends as of old, until he had
finished at Oxford.

When all was settled there he would return
home as usual, and, if possible, by some indirect
means, discover from Edith herself the real state
of her feelings towards him. Had he acted
entirely on this plan all might have been well,
but, unfortunately for him, he took into his confidence
his college companion, Maypole Tyson,
a son of the rector of Downend, the parish in
which Elston Court was situated. The young
men had, especially during their sojourn at
Oxford, been on very familiar terms with each
other, and therefore when the question was once
touched upon, it became quickly one of great
and lively interest between them.

Lyson commended his friend for the line of
conduct he had determined to adopt. He
argued that it would not be prudent, under the

present aspect of affairs, to write to Mr Cress-well
upon so delicate a subject, and one which
could be so much more freely dealt with in a
little quiet conversation when he returned home.

1 A few weeks more,' he observed, ' and your
position here will determine the name you will
leave behind you at Oxford, and that which you
will carry abroad with you into the world.
Away with all idea of love-making till your
work here is finished. Take a good degree,
and, with the advantage that will give you,
there will be no fear of your meeting with any
serious obstacle to the happiness you have in
view.'

Such advice, under ordinary circumstances,
would have been most commendable in the
speaker ; but unfortunately, in the present instance,
it was far from unselfish, as it came
from the mouth of an unprincipled rival.

vol. 1.

Maypole Tyson had long looked
upon the fortune of Edith Cresswell
with a greedy eye. It was not that
he so highly valued her beauty and
gentleness of character, as that his own expectations
were small, and he saw no means of
bettering his position so safely and surely as by
a good marriage. For some months he had
been looking carefully around him amongst his
friends and acquaintances for a lady whose
fortune was at her own disposal, and with
whom he might profitably fall in love. Had
Edith's fortune not depended on her father's
will he would have long since decided that she
was very dear to him, and made his attack upon
her accordingly. Being a near neighbour, and,
during his vacations, very often in her company,
he had abundance of opportunities of
pressing his suit upon her ; but the little hitch
about the father's will made him hesitate.

Was it not possible that he might meet with
a lady who had no will but her own to consult ?
In that case he would have no third party to
deal with, and that would answer his purpose
very much better, as it would save him from
any serious and impertinent questions respecting
his future prospects. So for the present
he resolved to remain watchful but silent. He
would not commit himself by any open act to
Edith or her father, but, as a friend and a
neighbour, he would do his best to make himself
agreeable to both of them, that he might
at any future time, should his interests lead
him to Elston Court, have a favourable opportunity
of gaining their attention.

Thus far his hunt for fortune had not been
successful. He could not meet with the lady
he was in search of. Every one his eye rested
upon appeared to be dependant on a father,
mother, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, or some
other person equally difficult to please. Edith,
against all others, was in the balance at the
moment when Edward Hare wood entrusted
his friend with the secret of his love. From
the regard the young men had expressed for
each other, it might have been supposed that
Lyson's meditated attack upon Edith would
have passed away as a thing unworthy of
further notice. It did not, however, do so.
Edward's confession produced the very opposite

effect upon Lyson's ill - regulated mind and
selfish heart. He suddenly found himself desperately
in love with Edith, and, while he
spoke fairly to his friend, resolved to do his
best to make the prize his own.

Feigning himself sick, he obtained permission
to absent himself from his college lectures fora
week, and, telling Edward that he felt he
must go home and get a little of his sister's
nursing, set out at once for Downend. Having
reached the vicarage, his health was quickly
restored, and, while he talked with Edith of
Edward's doings at Oxford, he lost no opportunity
of making himself very agreeable to her
and Mr and Mrs Cresswell. But, cool and
deliberate as his actions were, he proceeded
very carefully in his attack, and left them on
his return to Oxford without the least knowledge
of the real object of his visit.

He had more than hinted to his father the
advantage it would prove to him if he could,
son his leaving college, secure the hand of
Edith. To his sisters also he had spoken
equally plainly, telling them that if they could
speak a good word or two to her in his favour,
they would greatly oblige him. The sisters
readily undertook the pleasing task, and carried
it out to the letter, and, it may be, a little beyond
it, for from that day forward, when they
were with Edith, scarcely a minute passed

without the name of dear Maypole greeting
her ears.

The sisters were fond and proud of their
brother, and it required but a little stretch of
their imagination to make him appear to their
admiring eyes as a being of another and higher
sphere, sent into this selfish world by some
unaccountable mistake. Absolutely blind to
any fault their brother might have, they acted
so well up to the charge they had received, that
Edith, remembering his attention to her, began
to feel a lively interest in his welfare. She
did this, perchance, the more readily, as his
name was constantly spoken in connection of
that of his college companion, Edward Hare-wood,
to whom, as a sister from her infancy,
she had been so greatly attached.

Thus it happened while Edward was pursuing
his studies at Oxford, and holding his
love for Edith in check, that his thoughts might
not wander from his work and deprive him of
the means of obtaining the heh classical
honours, the news of which he wished to convey
to her, affairs at Downend were being
ordered in such a way that, under ordinary
circumstances, they would make his next visit
there as unpleasant as possible, and show him
the real character of his long-cherished friend.

Lyson was getting a little doubtful and
nervous as the end of the term approached.

He did not see very clearly how the matter
would end, but he was saved from the necessity
of inventing a lie to get back to Downend
before his rival, by a telegram that reached
Edward from Mr Cress well the day before he
proposed to return, to inform him of the death of
his cousin at Paris, and the serious illness of his
uncle, Sir Henry Harewood, at Dover, and to
advise him to go to the sufferer immediately.

With a trembling hand, Edward carried the
telegram to his friend, who advised him not to
lose a moment before setting out for Dover.
Edward attempted to argue that a day or two
could not make much difference. That he
could take Downend by the way, and get Mr
Cresswell's advice for his guidance at Dover.

1 You have his advice already in your telegram,'
said Lyson ; ' and if you are wise you
will act upon it. After you have seen your
uncle you can return to Downend.'

The confident manner in which he spoke
settled the question, and shortly afterwards
Edward left Oxford in nervous haste by an
express train for London, and then by another
on to Dover.

On reaching his destination he found his
uncle, though nearly helpless and confined to
his bed, perfectly conscious and alive to what
was passing around him. He appeared pleased
to see his nephew, and asked him if he could

stop at Dover for a week or two. Much as
Edward wished to get back to Downend, he
could not say no to such a request, and therefore
replied, without hesitation, that he would
be pleased to take up his abode at the house,
and remain with him during his illness.

They had of late seen but little of each other.
That, however, had not arisen so much from
any difference between them as from the wandering
life of the one and the studious character
of the other. On his introduction, Edward expressed
his warm sympathy with his uncle for
the great loss he had sustained in the death of
his son. Sir Henry, after thanking him and
wiping a tear from his eye, appeared unable
or unwilling to enter into any lengthened conversation
on the painful subject.

While the invalid lingered on his sick-bed,
which he did for several weeks, his nephew
completed his twenty-first year, and was bylaw
invested, as Sir Henry, with a faint smile,
assured him, with the entire management of his
whole fortune.

1 1 am afraid,' replied Edward, ' that the
whole will prove but a very trifling affair.'

Trifling or not,' observed Sir Henry, ' it is
now for you to deal with it.'

Why he took up the subject so earnestly did
not appear, but most likely it was to drive away
more serious thoughts.

e All in good time, uncle,' rejoined Edward,
as he strove to turn his attention to something
he began to describe that was then passing out
in the bay. But it was not long before he discovered
that the sick man's mind was fixed
on the one idea that he should at once take
upon himself the management of his property,
whether little or much.

He appeared to be indulging in some strange
feeling of dislike against Mr Cresswell, though
that gentleman, had he been apprised of the
fact, would doubtless have found it a very
difficult matter to assign a cause for it.

Once, years since, in the course of conversation,
they had differed respecting the education
of Edward, and Sir Henry, although he did
not seem disposed to take any trouble himself
in the matter, showed that he had formed an
opinion upon it, and, as the head of the family,
ought to be listened to with respect.

But from whatever cause his dislike might
arise, it certainly existed, and day by day it
became his constant theme with Edward that
he should write to Mr Cresswell, and express
a desire that, as their relationship of guardian
and ward had ceased, the state of his finances
should be explained to him.

At length, more to quiet the growing restlessness
of his uncle than from any interest he
felt in the matter himself, he made the desired

request to Mr Cresswell. The letter which
accompanied it was not wanting in expressions
of gratitude for the many acts of kindness the
writer had received from his guardian, still to
the gentleman addressed there appeared a
harshness about the whole proceeding, and
made him feel that it arose from the prompting
of some one else rather than from the writer's
own inclination.

No sign, however, of anger or annoyance
was evident in Mr Cresswell's reply, which
came the next day, with a short account of the
particulars required, and the intimation that
the matter was in the hands of his solicitor,
from whom a formal statement could be obtained
in the course of a day or two.

While this was passing, a correspondence
was also taking place between Edward and his
friend Lyson, in which the name of Edith was
often repeated, with messages sent and answers
returned, which had, on her part, no existence
further than on the paper they were made to
appear to have.

After a residence of two months at Dover,
the sick man. worn out in mind and body,
passed away. Of his son he had spoken but
little. His disappointment and grief at losing
him were too distressing to be clothed in common
words. In his will he made Edward his
sole heir, on the condition that he, the testator,

should be buried at Dover, where his wanderings
had ended, without any friends being
invited to attend his funeral.

When Edward was no longer required to sit
by the bedside of his uncle and minister to his
wants, a strange feeling of a want of an occupation
seized upon his mind. Until the funeral
rites were over, he did not fully realise the
great change that had taken place in his position
in the world, nor would he so readily have
done it then, had not the proof of it been
forced upon his attention by almost every one
with whom he came in contact.

He listened to his solicitor as he explained
the state in which his uncle's affairs had been
left with a very unbusinesslike ear, while he
was employed in silently working out a scheme
by which he might surprise and gratify Edith.
He felt that Mr Cress well would not now
object to his proposing to her, and the tone of
Lyson's letters assured him of her love. Satisfied
on those points, a pleasing idea took
possession of his mind. Before he paid her
another visit he would go to Wooded, and
have the family seat prepared for her reception,
and then ride over to Downend and throw
himself at her feet.

He spoke of his project in a letter to his
friend Lyson, who in return commended his
plan of keeping silent until the alterations

were completed, lest some busy-body gossip
should spoil the picture his imagination had
painted. Following this advice he hastened to
Woodfield, and the work of renovation was
earnestly commenced. That no time might be
lost, or mistake made, he remained on the spot
himself to superintend the work, and impress
son the decorator the necessity of haste, as well
as the strictest attention to his orders.

Once only he broke through his resolution
of not visiting his old friends until the hall was
prepared for his bride. His desire to see
Edith overcame, as his friend Lyson would
have said, his prudence. He could no longer
resist the temptation of a ride over to Downend
to assure himself that she was quite well. By
the way he called at the vicarage, but he did
not see Lyson, as the gentleman was said to be
not at home.

When in the presence of Edith he was particularly
careful to let her see how tenderly he
loved her, and yet as carefully to keep from her
the least word that would in any manner lead
her to surmise the happy surprise he thought
he had in store for her. He was only too successful
in keeping the real state of his heart in
the background, and therefore left her in utter
ignorance of his purpose while he was full of
hope and joy of his assured success.

And so the matter stood until the hall was

ready for the reception of his bride. When r
having seen the last touch given to the beautifying
of her rooms, he mounted his horse and
again rode over to Downend for the accomplishment
of the purpose upon which he had
spent so much thought and time.

He was just one day too late. His friend
Lyson had, with the assistance of his sisters,
managed his love-making so well, that he had
proposed to Edith, and been accepted by her.
He had acted very dishonestly, and although he
was now quite sure of his prize, he felt a little
nervous about the explanation he would have
to give to account for the deception he had
practised] on his friend. For the present he
resolved not to meet him unless absolutely
obliged to do so.

On reaching Elston Court, Sir Edward, as we
must now call him, discovered that Edith and
her mother were not at home. On being introduced
to Mr Cresswell, he fortunately learnt
how matters stood, before he had committed
himself to any open expression of the object of
his visit. His old guardian, who had for so
long looked upon him and his daughter in the
light of a brother and sister, alluded to the
subject of Edith's marriage with Mr Lyson,.
almost in the first words that passed between
them.

Sir Edward, though alarmed and bewildered

by the information that had so unexpectedly
fallen upon his ear, choked down his feeling
of vexation and disappointment, and remained
silent on the subject that had brought him to
the house.

The interview was very brief. As Sir Edward
was about to excuse himself for being
obliged to hurry away, a servant entered the
room and presented a card to his master from
a gentleman who had called by appointment
upon special business.

You will, I trust, excuse me,' said Mr Cress-well,
' if I leave you for a few minutes ? '

By all means,' replied Sir Edward; and then,
after a moment's hesitation, he added hastily,
4 I am myself pressed for time,' and, as he spoke,
he, with a good-bye, hurriedly left the room,
and, mounting his horse, rode away homeward
in a more confused state of mind than he had
ever been before in his life.

He did not draw bridle until his horse stopped
panting at the park gate. On entering his renovated
house, he bade his servant say if anyone
called that he was not at home, and then
without turning to the right hand or the left,
hurried up the stairs, and entering his bedroom,
closed and locked the door.

After two or three agitated turns up and
down the room, he sat down by a table, and
throwing himself forward upon it, buried his

face in his hands, and gave himself up to-unutterable
despair.

Wearied out at length by his emotion, he
sank into a state of stupor, from which for sometime
he made no attempt to arouse himself.
His heart had been struck in its most sensitive
part, not only by one arrow, but by three. First,
by that which aroused him from his dream of
happiness in the companionship of his beloved
Edith. Then through his misery in discovering
the falseness of his too blindly-trusted friend ;
and lastly, from the conviction of the uselessness
of all he had done to render his house a fitting
abode for his wife.

Well might he press his hands to his forehead
and wish he was dead. What had he now to
live for ? What could the world be henceforth
to him but a prison house in which he must
drag out a miserable existence ? Was there a
woman he could ever think of again with pleasure,
or a man he could trust ? Could he ever
look upon his renovated house without having
his present bitter disappointment brought vividly
before him ?

It was not a mere boyish love that had made
him look on Edith as an angel of light, or a
weak dependence on another that had caused
him to place such implicit confidence in Lyson,
and hence the wounds in his heart were the
more galling and difficult to bear.

Hours passed away before any sensible change
took place in his feelings. All his learning, with
the power he had hitherto possessed over his
passions, were as dust in the balance to control
the effects of that hapless day's work. At length,
without any effort on his part, a glimmering of
light began to show itself in his almost paralysed
brain, and which went on gradually increasing
until his thinking powers were to some extent
restored, and he could again hold converse
with his reason.

Arrived so far on his way to renewed hope, he
began to question with himself whether he had
not been a little hasty in yielding up his heart
so readily to despair. A few words only had
passed between him and Mr Cresswell. Was it
not possible that there might be some mistake in
the information he had listened to, or the way
in which he had understood it ? Would it be
just to conclude that Lyson was the basest of
men without further evidence of the fact, or that
the last conversation he had had with Edith
had nothing in it of the love for him, which
the import of her words seemed to convey?

Towards evening he had sufficiently regained
his self-possession to change his dress and
go down to dinner. Having once passed the
boundary between despair and hope, appearances
began to assume their usual character, and there
being no one but his servants present to observe

his changing countenance, he escaped much
questioning, which, had he been surrounded
by friends, he would have been subjected to.
\ Before retiring to rest that night he seriously,
and as calmly as he could, reviewed the work of
the day, and resolved on the business of the
morrow. He would go over to Downend and
question Mr Cresswell closely upon the all-engrossing
subject, and if he found he had been
unfairly dealt with by Lyson, demand an instant
explanation from him, or horsewhip him before
his father's door. What he should say to Edith
he could not tell.

The next morning found him anxious and
doubtful, but still determined to act in the
manner he had resolved upon.,

On reaching Elston Court he learnt that Mr
and Mrs Cresswell were out in the carriage,
and that Miss Cresswell was alone in the .
Edith received him in her usual
warm, affectionate manner ; while he, not knowing
more than he did yesterday, felt that the task
he had undertaken would severely try his fortitude.
He became confused, and instead of
speaking in his old familiar way, stammered
out something about the weather and the
rottenness of the roads.

Edith looked anxiously at him as she said, —

Are you not well ? '

1 Yes — no ; that is,' he replied, ' I was not

very well this morning, but — ' and then the
words, without more preparation, rushed from his
mouth, ' I thought I ought to ride over and
congratulate you on what your father told me
yesterday was about to take place.'

In a moment the gleam of hope that he had
misunderstood Mr Cresswell was banished from
his mind.

1 You are very good,' said Edith, ' to take
so long a ride for such a purpose. I was a
little disappointed yesterday when I returned
home and found you had been here, that
you did not stop to congratulate me then. I
might have flattered you by saying my father
thinks very highly of Mr Lyson, but I have
valued him chiefly because he is your friend.'

Sir Edward bit his lips, and said, —

1 But why, considering the terms upon which
we have lived and corresponded with each other,
did I not hear of it before the arrangement
was completed ? You have never given me the
slightest intimation that anything of the kind
was ever likely to take place.'

1 I have had no opportunity of doing so,'
replied Edith. ' You know I was not at home
yesterday when you called, and I could not tell
you before of that which had not taken place.'

But surely,' said Sir Edward, with some
bitterness, ' if you had desired to let me know
that such an event was likely to take place, you
vol. 1. c

might have done so by letter or otherwise. It
is true I have not seen you often for some considerable
time, and then,' he added, in a softer
tone, ' I have been busy with a thousand things
that have kept me away from Downend ; but if
my correspondence has fallen off, I have sent
you messages by Mr Lyson to assure you that
my interest in my old home was as warm as
ever.'

Yes,' replied Edith, ' and I have been
pleased to listen to him when he has reminded
me of you and old times.'

1 He told you,' said Sir Edward in a husky
voice, ' that I was making some special alterations
in my house, which I should be glad to
have your opinion upon.'

1 He said you appeared to be very busy with
your improvements, but I do not remember
that he spoke of any special alterations. I suppose
you will occupy the house immediately ? '

I did intend to do so, but I think I shall
now, perhaps, change my mind and do a spell of
travelling first. I have long had a desire to
visit Switzerland, and I am told it is now to be
seen in all its wild grandeur and beauty.'

When I was there,' rejoined Edith, ' I was
greatly charmed with the scenery, and I shall
be very glad to look upon it again.'

With me ? ' said Sir Edward, forgetful for a
moment that she was pledged to another.

No,' replied Edith, with a slight laugh,
1 that would be a little inconsistent with our
present arrangements. But we may chance to
meet there.'

Your wedding tour will take you in that
direction,' observed Sir Edward, with a great
effort to appear calm.

Yes, if the choice is left to me.'

'Which, of course, will be the case. Mr
Lyson will not be able to say you nay.'

I am not so sure of that,' replied Edith.
Mr Lyson is very good, kind, and considerate,
but he may not think it prudent to let me do
always as I choose. 5

But if he loves you ? '

< Yes.'

1 And you love him ? '

Yes.'

Then you will go to Switzerland, and, I
trust,' he added quickly, ' be very happy.'

Seeing that he was preparing to leave the
room, Edith said, —

■ Are you so pressed for time ? I expect my
father and mother back very shortly, and you
know they will be pleased to see you.'

I am very sorry, but I cannot stop to see
them. You must please excuse me to them.'
Then gently pressing her hand in his, he said
hurriedly, ' good-bye, and left the room.

Edith went to the window and saw him

ride away. As he disappeared she gave a
heavy sigh, and murmured, —

1 He is greatly altered since his uncle's death.
Maypole led me to expect it would be so, but
I did hope he would not change with his change
of fortune.

Meantime Sir Edward, having gone a few
hundred yards in the direction of Woodfield,
suddenly checked his horse and turned it towards
the vicarage, saying as he did so, —

'No, I will not play the craven and runaway.
I will see him, and charge him with
his double-dealing and abominable deception.'

On reaching the house he found, as he then
thought unfortunately, that the gentleman he
was in search of was not at home, and was not
likely to be for a few days, as he was gone to
London on business.

He was bitterly disappointed and angry, and
as he rode home busied himself with the composition
of a letter, in which he would upbraid
Lyson for the injury he had done him, and
demand instant satisfaction.

When, however, he reached home and sat
down to his task, much as he had thought of
the composition of his letter, he found it no
easy matter to get it fairly set out upon the
paper. And when, after several failures, he
had accomplished his purpose, instead of
placing it in an envelope and sending it off

when he had glanced over it, he tore it into
a thousand pieces, murmuring as he did so, —

1 Why is it that I cannot in a few words say
what I feel is the truth, without going in a
roundabout way to tell him that he is a thief
and a liar ? '

Then he took another sheet of paper and
began his work anew, but apparently with less
success than before, as, ere it was half finished,
it met with the fate of its fellow. He made
one more attempt, and then he threw down
the pen, and, starting to his feet, began to
pass rapidly up and down the room in the
vain attempt to get the mastery of himself.

When not under stormy excitement, his faith
in the goodness and justice of the great Ruler
of the universe was unbounded. He could
argue and feel that, under whatever circumstances
a man may be placed, whether pleasant
or painful, there is an overruling providence
above him which, if it does not order, permits for
some wise purpose all that can possibly affect
him in his journey through life.

This conviction, which had been deeply engraved
on his mind, now for the first time in
his life lay in abeyance through the excess of
his disappointment. His prayers now took the
character of interjections, rather than reasonable
requests for guidance. That state of things
could not, however, last. Either he must sink

into a state of utter desperation, or the better
feeling of his youth return and enable him once
more to exercise his reason. Happily his good
angel rose in the ascendant, and he gradually
became more calm and open to the influence of
hope.

Before he retired to rest, he had worked out
his perplexing problem, and craved heaven's
assistance to keep him firmly to his purpose.
He had argued himself into the conviction that
his absence from England for a time was forced
by circumstances upon him. He would not,
however, direct his steps towards Switzerland,
but rather in an opposite direction, perhaps
through Denmark and Sweden.

Should I persist, he thought, in my revenge
for the injury I feel so deeply, I should more
deeply still wound the one I most love on earth,
without in the slightest degree advancing my
own happiness. Edith has satisfied me that it
is no forced engagement she has become a party
to, but that it is on her part her own free
choice.

What could I gain by attempting to prove
to her how greatly I have been deceived by the
man she loves ? Would she now reject him on
that account, and even if she did, would it alter
our relative positions ? Could I, after what has
happened, ask her to be my wife ? Impossible.
I will not think of it. And as for him, must he

escape my vengeance. Yes, even so, I cannot
strike him without injuring her ; I will leave
him to God and his own conscience for the
punishment he so richly deserves.

I will never, if I can avoid him, see him
again. I should despise myself if I could, on
any cajolery on his part, be persuaded to think
that his love for Edith was so strong before I
opened my heart to him that, despite his friendship
for me, he could not do otherwise than he
has done. For her sake, I will hold back my
hand, and if he treats her kindly and secures
her happiness, I may endeavour to forget his
falsehood to me, but we can never be friends
again.'

HE next day, without repeating his
visit to Elston Court, Sir Edward
sent for his agent, and having instructed
him as to what he wished to
have done during his absence, set out on his
tour. From London he wrote to Mr Cresswell,
and through him a few words to Edith, but he
did not to either of them enter into any particulars
of his plan of proceeding, further than by
stating that he proposed to he absent from
England for about twelve months, and that
they might expect occasionally to hear from
him. His sudden and unexpected departure,
with the exception of one person, was a mystery
to them all, and they too readily fell into the
view that that one person placed before them,
which was simply that the change in his fortune
had produced the alteration in his conduct.
Our old friend, he suggested, has found himself
master of his own actions, and is able to go

hither and thither as his fancy may direct,
without a thought of the attendant expense.

It will be very strange,' observed Mrs Cress-well,
' \i he should fall into the late baronet's
restless habit of wandering about from place to
place with no other object than mere personal
pleasure.'

Mr Cress well looked grave, and said with a
sigh, —

1 hoped better things of him.'

Edith did not venture to speak her opinion.
She was now, as she ever had been, greatly
attached to the companion of her childhood ;
but she could not help feeling that he had not
treated her kindly on his hearing of her betrothal
to his friend. She could imagine no
cause for it but such as had been suggested to
her by his ungenerous but successful rival.
Yet to think of him as estranged from them on
account of his improved fortune was very painful
to her, and to such thoughts she would not
give utterance.

Lyson was, as he might well be, in the best
possible spirits. He had returned from his
business in London in the full expectation of a
scene with his rival which would have required
the utmost care on his part to keep it between
themselves. When he learnt that Sir Edward
had had a private interview with Edith, and
the next day left the country, he readily surmised

the thoughts that had prompted his
action. Had he had the choice he would
rather have met him alone, and at once have had
the matter out between them. But he could
not feel sorry that his rival had quietly quitted
the field, though he felt that a storm at any
future time might suddenly burst upon him.
That, however, did not prevent him from giving
himself very heartily up to the enjoyment of
the present.

During Edward's stay with his uncle at
Dover, Lyson, aided by a lying tongue, a fine
figure, and the constant praise of his sisters,
had laid siege most effectually to the heart
of Edith, and won it as far as it could be won
from her affection for Edward. Fortune had
not been so kind to her, as she had been to him.
No thought had arisen in her heart to tell her
that she looked upon him in any other light
than that of a beloved brother, and when Lyson
came before her with all his blandishments, she
could not feel any repugnance to his presence,
and the more so as he was the dear friend of
Edward, and had constantly his commendation
on his tongue.

And so all went gaily on. Lyson had found
means to ingratiate himself into the good
opinion of Mr and Mrs Cresswell. He was,
as far as his exterior was concerned, in every
respect a presentable man, and he was too

clever in the art of deception to let more than
his exterior be seen, even by his nearest friends.
His father thought he had reason to be proud
of him, and, but for his marriage, would have
looked forward without any doubt to his shortly
obtaining a fellowship at his college. Had it
not been for Edith's chance of coming into a
great fortune, he would have argued with his
son on the impolicy of crippling his future
prospects by taking to himself a wife.

The church, of course, would be still open to
him, and, with the influence he could bring to
bear upon some friends of the bride's family,
he would secure him a good living. While
such thoughts controlled the mind of the vicar.
Mr and Mrs Cresswell comforted themselves
with the idea that their darling Edith would
not be far removed from them. They would
have gladly kept her with them to the end of
their lives, had she not of her own free choice
desired it should be otherwise. They felt as
all parents must feel who have a beloved and
only daughter to lighten their path on to old
age, that any cause which might occasion her
absence from the family hearth would sadly
interfere with their happiness. But they also
felt how lonely her state would be if they, in
the course of nature, were called upon to leave
her unprotected in the world. Sad as it would
be to miss her bright face in the house, they

were resigned to the change when they thought
that, in her new sphere of action, she would
have a companion to guide and support her
under every trial in life.

It was a proud hour for the sisters of the
bridegroom when they took part in giving the
finishing touch to the adornment of the six
young ladies who were to act as bridesmaids
in the all-important ceremony that was about
to take place. They were nearly beside themselves
with pleasure when they thought of the
pride they would presently feel on kissing the
bride and calling her their dear sister. Too
happy to indulge in lengthened speech with
each other or their friends, all that they could
say escaped from their lips in short and pithy
sentences. ' You darling girls ! How beautiful
! How charming! Well, that is lovely,'
and so on, till all was ready when they entered
the church, and subsided into silent admiration.

The ceremony over there and the breakfast
at home, the bride and bridegroom entered
their travelling carriage amidst the congratulations
of their friends, and were soon lost in
the distance. While shortly afterwards Mr
and Mrs Cresswell looked around their empty
house with a sensation of a chill at the heart,
of which they were careful not to speak.

The travellers did not stop in London or
Paris, but continued their journey on direct

to Switzerland, where they had resolved, in
accordance with the wish of Edith, to spend
their honeymoon. After the absence of a
month they returned to Downend, and, by
the invitation of Mr Cresswell, took up their
abode at Elston Court, where they were frequently
visited by the sisters and the vicar.
With the ladies all was beautiful and charming.

o

The house and grounds were delightful, and the
appointments within and without were all that
could be desired by the most delicate appetite
or fastidious taste. But the mind of the vicar
began to be a little troubled. He feared that
his son's views with respect to the church were
undergoing a change, as, when any allusion
was made to the time of his ordination, he
invariably endeavoured to turn the conversation
into another channel. This appeared to him so
unsatisfactory that he took an early opportunity
of speaking very seriously to his son upon the
subject, but without any definite result.

Nor was Mr Cresswell altogether satisfied
with his son-in-law's proceedings. The conviction
had been forced upon him without any
special observation that the real character of
the young man was not quite so modest or
unselfish as it had appeared to be before his
marriage. Previous to that he had sought
every opportunity to make himself agreeable,
but now, when the opportunity presented

itself, he seldom saw it. It was plain he was
very fond of ease and good living, and often
appeared unaware that he was not in his own
house, by the way in which he gave his orders
to the servants.

And how fared it with Edith. Had she discovered
that she had placed herself in the
hands of a man whose character, on closer
acquaintance, was not what it had appeared
to be when looked at from a distance. Yes ;
sad to say, she had in part made the unpleasant
discovery. Still there was nothing in his conduct
towards her of which she could complain.
He bestowed on her neither harsh words nor
unkind looks ; but, when alone with her, his
conversation became insipid and trifling. She
was the first to learn from him that he had
given up all idea of preparing for his ordination.

Your father will be greatly disappointed,'
observed Edith. ' He has evidently set his
heart on your becoming a great preacher.

Then I am afraid he has set his heart upon
a vain thing,' was the reply.

1 And have you quite decided ? ' she asked.

1 Yes ; quite,' and then, after a pause, he added,
and you would greatly oblige me if you would
take upon yourself to assure him and your father
that I am acting in accordance with your desire.'

You are jesting with me,' said Edith ; ' you
cannot mean what you say.'

4 I do, though,' was the reply. ' I have my
scruples about the church, and I will none
of it, and if you will not consent to help me,
I shall in that case owe you no thanks. I
mean to go in for a Government appointment,
and then, at least, you can help me. Your
father, I know, has some influence in that
direction.'

You will speak to your father first,' said
Edith.

1 Perhaps I may ; but that need not interfere
with your advocacy of my wish.'

A few months afterwards, accompanied by
Edith, Lyson was on his way to Paris, in
which city, through influential friends, a good
appointment had been obtained for him.

It was a dreary night at Elston Court that
followed the day of their departure. There
were sore hearts in the principal chamber.
Father and mother alike in silent grief, able to
think of nothing but their absent child ; yet
afraid to speak of her lest they should add to
each other's pain. Great sacrifices had been
made to keep her and her husband near them,
but all had been of no avail. They had seen
their son-in-law become daily more earnest to
put an end to his father's solicitations respecting
his preparing himself for the church, and at
length, on the earnest entreaty of Edith, procured
for him the appointment in Paris.

Thus ended their dream of keeping their
child near them, by marrying her to a neighbour's
son who, they had good reason to believe,
would follow his father's profession, and
if he did not remain in the parish with him,
get a curacy at no great distance, until he was
in a position to become a vicar himself. And
now she was gone far away from them. Yes ;
absolutely gone to a great distance to make
her home amongst strangers, and, as their
secret fears whispered, with a man whose
character for unselfishness was not to be relied
upon.

Although Sir Edward had acted from the
promptings of his better nature, and some may
think in a cowardly way, without meeting his
successful rival and charging him with his
falsehood, the remembrance of his wrongs
still haunted his mind, and was not for years
afterwards entirely removed. Yet, when he
left England he had gone through the bitterest
moments of his disappointment. His conscience
approved of the course he had taken,
and he became comparatively calm as the distance
increased between him and his home.

He spent twelve months travelling from
country to country and city to city. Much
that he saw and heard by the way was deeply
impressed on his mind, and doubtless had great
influence in his dealing with many actions of

his after life. France, Belgium, Germany and
Denmark came under his eye, and numerous
entries were made in his note-book of places
and events for future consideration.

On his return, he landed at Dover ; but not
as he had left it a year since, and the reader
may be surprised when he is told that he did
not land alone. After visiting Copenhagen
he went to Berlin, and from thence to Munich,
where he made rather a long stay. Almost
immediately after his arrival there, he met an
English gentleman, with whom he very shortly
became intimately connected. On being invited
to his house he found he had several children,
and amongst them a daughter in her twentieth
year — a fair girl so much like Edith in point of
age, height and bearing, that when his eyes
first fell upon her, the remembrance of his old
disappointment was so vividly brought back to
his mind, that for some seconds he felt he was
living the past over again.

He could not disguise his confusion as he
said, —

Pray, pardon my apparent rudeness for
looking at you so earnestly. You are so
much like a lady I knew in England, that I
was on the point of addressing you by her
name.'

The young lady blushed, and murmured
something of not having noticed any rudeness
vol. 1. D

on his part. When her father came to her
assistance by observing, —

4 It is very strange that we should often meet
with people so much alike, and yet totally unknown
to each other.'

The intimacy which thus commenced between
Sir Edward and Miss Burton did not prove of
a transitory nature. He found the young lady,
on closer acquaintance, so like his Edith, that
he felt he had neither power nor inclination to
resist her growing influence over him.

In consequence of this, he spent some months
in Germany, and when he left, a happy bride
went with him, who proved herself an excellent
wife, and one well worthy of his choice. There
was still a void place in his heart, but it was
being gradually veiled from his every-day
thoughts.

During his absence from England he kept
up his correspondence with his agent, and if his
instructions were fairly carried out, he knew as
well about his property as if he had been in constant
attendance upon it himself.

His promise to the good people at Downend
was not forgotten. They received several long
letters from him, but he from first to last touched
very lightly upon family matters. They were
chiefly copied from his notes, and related to the
customs and manners of the people with whom
he was becoming acquainted. This served to

confirm them in the opinion they had formed of
the change that had come over him on his
sudden departure. They saw, or fancied they
saw, that old domestic ties were hanging loosely
about him. That he was fast becoming a man
of the world, and preparing for an ambitious
race in it. In one of his letters he gave them
a brief account of his marriage, with a sketch ot
the manner in which he proposed to live at
Woodfield on his return, which only tended to
confirm them in the false notions they had
formed of his conduct.

On reaching home he found all in order for
his reception. The bright looks of his young
wife as she gazed upon the appointments of the
house and the beauty of its surroundings were
very gratifying to him. Since their marriage
nothing was wanting in the kindness with which
he had treated her. His consciousness that
she stood in the place of another made him the
more careful of his dealing with her, lest she
should surmise the truth and fear that she did
not possess the foremost place in his heart.

His first visit to Downend after his return
proved rather a trying affair. He took his wife
with him, and as he kept her constantly near
him, a great portion of family matters were
kept at bay, which, perchance, he would have
had otherwise to listen to. While in Denmark
he had received an account of Edith's marriage,

UNIVERSITY Of ILLINOIS

so that on the present occasion it was but very
briefly alluded to. He learnt that they were
still in Paris — that they had paid one visit to
Downend, but which was very short, in consequence
of Mr Lyson wishing to spend sometime
in London before he returned to his
duties.

It was a great satisfaction to Sir Edward to
know that Lyson had left the neighbourhood.
Of all men in the world he was the last he
wished to meet. He still felt that his confidence
had been basely abused, but that an
encounter between them was most undesirable.
The die was cast — Lyson was the husband of
Edith, and any attack made upon him would
not fail to lead to an explanation with her,
which, under any circumstance, could not add
to the happiness of either.

After his first visit to Downend, the foreboding
with which he had looked forward to it faded
from his mind, and on his future visits he was
enabled to meet his friends with the unreservedness
of old times.

For awhile after his return, when the complimentary
visits he had received from the county
families had been answered, he saw but little
company. He frequently met his agent, and
took especial care to convince him that
he was observant of all that was passing. He
visited his tenants, and listened attentively to

any suggestions they had to make for the improvement
of their farms. Often he might be
seen on horseback, with his wife by his side,
pointing out to her as they rode through the
park or the open roads interesting views of
present beauty or spots marked out by old
historic events, only now traditionally remembered.


But these rides in a short time came to a
close. An interesting state of the lady's health
rendered it advisable that she should avoid
violent exercise, and content herself with a
carriage drive or a gentle walk. Then Sir
Edward's visits abroad became less frequent.
He spent much time in looking over and arranging
his notes of travel, with his wife busily
employed with her needle by his side.

At length the interesting event somewhat
unexpectedly arrived, and hg suddenly found
himself a father, with a son and heir to his estate.
All passed off well, and shortly his wife was
again able to remount her horse. While sounds
were heard in the old Hall which had for many
a day been strangers there.

As years were gathered to the past, the business
in the nursery increased. Following the
heir came twins, a boy and a girl, and four years
afterwards another girl. With the exception of
the firstborn, they all appeared likely to grow
up strong and healthy children. Unfortunately

for him, the case was otherwise. It is possible
he entered upon life before he was quite prepared
for its duties. He was weak in body,
and as his mind began to be developed it partook
only too much of the same character.

The fond mother proposed to keep her weak
child constantly at home, but that, when the
time arrived for his education to commence, Sir
Edward argued it would not be prudent she
should do so. In that, however, in after years
he had reason to believe he had not argued
wisely. But he did not then confine his attention
altogether to his family. In the course of
his second year at the Hall, he took his place
on the bench as one of the magistrates of the
county.

He was not a very earnest politician, though
he was ever ready to lend a helping hand to
any movement that had the good of the general
public in view, more especially if it partook of
a liberal character. His decisions on the bench,
though strictly just, were always tempered by
mercy. It was not so much the crime that had
been committed, as the spirit that had led to the
crime that met his severest animadversion. He
would deal gently with a man who had become
a thief through hunger, while he would censure
with the whole force of the law another who
had been proved guilty of wilful mischief.

As his children grew up his word became

their guiding principle, upon which they did not
dream of raising a question. During the season
he generally spent a few days at an hotel in
London. He would have taken a house there
and had his family with him, but his wife disliked
the noise and confusion of the streets, and
much preferred being in the country with her
children, or taking them for a few weeks to
Hastings, where her father with his family had
settled after his return from Munich.

In this manner they passed ten years of their
married life. Then a dark cloud overshadowed
the Hall, and Sir Edward lost his tranquillity, and
his country for a time the benefit of his active
usefulness. Lady Harewood had fallen sick
from a severe cold, which shortly became very
serious and threatening in its consequence.
The first physicians from London were called
in, but their skill availed nothing. She was then
removed to Torquay for the benefit of the warm
sea air, but that was equally useless. She was
in a rapid consumption, and nothing short of a
miracle could restore her to health. Her end
was at hand, and a few days after reaching
Torquay, as she had lived, so she tranquilly
passed away.

*£rS5fc?5»

house.

IR EDWARD very deeply grieved
for the loss of his wife, but his
children's welfare still gave him a
warm interest in the affairs of his
It was a relief to him to hear his
children speak of their mother, and listen to
the thousand questions they had to ask him for
her reason for leaving them, and where she was
gone to.

He accepted a sister-in-law's offer to come
and take care of his little ones, but she ill
supplied the place of the departed. Possibly
she could not help it, but she was anxious and
fussy, and sometimes almost irritating in her
desire to have everything kept in the strictest
order, so that Sir Edward was not sorry when
the time came for her to return to Hastings.

Then, that he might not be worried again ina
like manner, he engaged an elderly lady, Mrs
Gibson, who had been strongly recommended

to him, to take charge of his children and manage
his house. That point settled, he strove
to arouse himself from his despondency by interesting
himself as formerly in the welfare of
his tenants and labourers.

The education also of his children became
a prominent feature in his thoughts. The question
to be determined was whether it would be
better to keep them at home under a governess
and tutor, or place them in the hands of strangers
at a distance. Mrs Gibson thought they were
all too young to be sent away, and at the same
time expressed her opinion very freely that she
would, for two or three years, be able to teach
them all that they would be capable of learning.

With one exception, Sir Edward coincided
in her opinion, and that exception had unfortunately
to do with Oliver, his eldest child. He
had passed his ninth year, and, as his father
concluded, required a more robust treatment
than he could by any chance meet with at home
with his younger brother and sisters under the
gentle sway of Mrs Gibson ; and thus it came
about that Oliver was sent away to school, where
it was supposed he would have every care taken
of him by those in authority, and the advantage
of associating with boys of his own age
and standing in society.

Sir Edward was under the impression that
his son's weakness was rather in appearance

than reality. Although he was thin and pale,
he had a good appetite, and when he could be
induced to forget his natural nervousness, said
he was quite well. The gentleman to whose
care he was committed listened attentively to
Sir Edward's suggestions, and doubtless endeavoured
to carry out his views ; but it was
not from the master or his assistants that the
boy's trials were to come, but from his schoolfellows,
and chiefly from them in the dormitory
and playground.

Boys are not slow to discover the weak
points of their fellows, and take advantage of
them for their own amusement. This the poor
nervous boy soon learnt to his cost. When
first teased, he said he would tell his father,
which only added to the fun of his tormentors,
as they gave him very seriously to understand
that it would be a bad day's work for him if he
told his father or any one else one word of
what took place when the masters were not
present. The result of this was that, instead
of Oliver willingly joining with them in their
sports, he avoided them as much as possible,
and to escape their notice would creep away
into any empty corner into which he could
squeeze himself.

He did his school work moderately well, and
when under the eye of a master was comparatively
happy, but even then a whisper or a look

from one of his tormentors caused him to
tremble with excitement. The mischief did
not end at school. He learnt to dissemble
with his father through his dread of those
whose companionship it was thought would
strengthen his character.

Acting on a foregone conclusion, Sir Edward
still went on hoping, from one vacation to
another, that the desired change would make
its appearance, until the youth reached his
sixteenth year. Then in utter despair that
anything would be gained by his being sent
from home, he kept him at the Hall for the
benefit of his own personal training.

Meantime the education of his other children
was going on very satisfactorily. Charlotte,
the eldest girl, when she passed out of the
hands of Mrs Gibson, was sent to a lady's
school with a daughter of Mr Gordon, the
vicar of Woodfield, who was about her age,
and to whom she had become greatly attached.
Jesse also, the second son, was sent to school,
where he was quickly reported to be earning
for himself a position at work and play that bid
fair to make him at no length of time the captain
of his school. The youngest of the family,
Grace, still remained under the care of Mrs
Gibson, and was reported to be making good
progress with her studies.

Sir Edward had fully established his character

in the county as a strict and watchful
landlord, but he had in nowise lost his early
popularity. His tenants and work-people had
confidence in him because they saw he acted
on the principle of increasing their profits as
well as his own in the management of his
estate. If they acted up to their engagements,
he was ever ready to encourage them with
a friendly word, and if necessary a generous
action.

With the general public he mixed but little
more than he was obliged by his official duties
as a magistrate and chairman of the school
board, to which he had been induced to permit
himself to be nominated. But he was a frequent
visitor to his friends at Downend, where
his presence and advice were much valued
in the troubles that had occasionally come
upon them in connection with their daughter's
marriage.

The first year of Edith's married life had
done much to disenchant her of the picture she
had looked upon through her imagination of
Maypole Lyson. For many a weary day after
their return to Paris from their first visit to
Downend, she strove against the conviction
that was forcing itself upon her mind, that it
was not his love for her that had brought him
to her side ; but, miserable thought as it was,
she could not silence it. It was but too evident

that his profession of love had only masked
his desire to become possessed of the means of
indulging in a life of excitement and pleasure.

Notwithstanding this, he did not give her
any cause for open complaint. If he chose to
live in a more expensive house than he had
hitherto appeared content with, and see more
company, he did not suffer her to be worried
with household duties, but, with the assistance
of a housekeeper, took the whole charge upon
himself. Abroad, riding or driving, she was
generally his companion, and receiving from
him, in the eyes of the world, the greatest possible
attention. The position he had taken up.
and his connection with the office of the ambassador
of England, gave him, at least for a
time, the means of procuring unlimited credit,
of which he did not fail to avail himself.

Four years passed away after their first visit
to England before it was renewed, and then
Lyson professed he could go no further than
Boulogne with Edith, who was obliged therefore
to go the remainder of the journey alone.
He seemed to have taken an utter dislike to
England ; and, although he often talked of
going to Downend, this was the lame conclusion
it came to.

At the end of a month Edith returned, and
was met by Lyson at Dover, to which place
she had been escorted by her father, who would

have spent a day there with them, could Lyson
have spared the time, but that he assured them
he could not. as he must be back again to his
office in Paris at work on the next morning.
As Mr Cresswell knew nothing of the duties
that so earnestly required his presence at his
office, he could offer no opposition to their
going at once to the packet, which was lying
in the harbour, puffing and panting as if eager
to be off.

A long space of time again passed, and then,
after much talking of another visit on the part
of Lyson, and a promise that he would get
leave and accompany his wife, nearly the same
performance as before was acted over again.
The English part of her journey was made
alone both ways. When she left Downend on
her return, her father would have accompanied
her, but as he had a bad cold, she persuaded
him to give up his intention in favour of an old
servant, who could go with her to Dover.

On that occasion she left her father and
mother with a sad heart, though for their sakes
she strove to be cheerful. She had not been
able to entirely disguise from them that the
happiness she felt in their company at Down-end
exceeded all that she had ever known in
the gay society of Paris ; but this not in the
way of complaint, but rather in the course of
conversation. She feared to trust the secrets

of her heart to their keeping, lest it should
make them unhappy in her absence. No ; whatever
pain she might be called upon to suffer,
they should not be teased to feel and share it
with her. Her marriage had been of her own
seeking, and she would return to Paris and do
her duty.

She had long feared that they were living
beyond their means, and on her return to her
husband the second time, its evidence became
more apparent to her than ever.

She ventured to suggest her fears ; when
Lyson laughingly assured her that she need not
trouble herself about that, since, if he was not
very rich, his credit was good, and that his
friends the bakers, butchers, wine merchants,
etc., evidently thought they were greatly
honoured by being allowed to attend upon
him.

But her forebodings were not to be so easily
silenced, and she could not refrain from referring
to the subject until it became wearisome to
him, and produced an angry reply, when she
silently left the room.

As she closed the door after her, he
muttered, —

1 I cannot understand what the devil she
wants! My income is good, and may be increased.
The tradespeople press one before
the other for the honour of serving me, and

none of them, as far as I know, are anxious to
close their accounts with me. And suppose weare
going a little beyond our tether, England is
not so far away, and we have a mine of wealth
there in our good father-in-law, who, I imagine,
will not trouble the world very much longer
with his presence.'

On meeting his wife shortly afterwards, he
said, —

1 I am afraid, Edith, I answered you a little
roughly just now ; I was busy with some intricate
calculations when you spoke to me, and I
scarcely knew what I said.'

I am sorry,' replied his wife, ' that I was so
unfortunate as to speak to you when you were
so much engaged ; but indeed I am very
anxious about the expensive way in which weare
living.'

My dear,' said Lyson, ' have I not told you
that I wish you would not trouble yourself
about anything of the sort ? You will not beheld
responsible for any action of mine ; therefore,
if you are wise, you will do well for the
future to avoid the unpleasant subject'

1 Yes,' replied Edith ; ' but I cannot help
thinking of it, though I may obey your injunction
and be silent.'

Do not say injunction, Edith,' he rejoined
very gently ; ' you know I merely give it to you
as advice. You must see that when two persons,

whose interests are bound up together so
closely as ours, cannot agree in opinion on
any subject, it is better they should avoid it
altogether.'

1 Whether I speak or am silent,' replied
Edith, ' my fear of the future will be the same
if we continue to live as we have done of late,
with a house full of friends, or rather, I should
say, of acquaintances — strangers of yesterday.'

But they are all gone now was the brief
remark.

1 And you will not invite others ? ' suggested
Edith.

1 Not at present, if it is displeasing to you,'
he replied.

1 Nor continue your large dinner-parties ? '

1 Do you refuse to see company ? '

No,' replied Edith, ' not to any reasonable
amount. It is the excess that alarms me, and
takes me back to an incident that occurred when
I was quite a child, and on a visit with my
father and mother to some friends in London.'

'If it is a very sorrowful story,' he rejoined,
I would rather be excused from listening toit'


It was sad enough to make a great impression
on my father and mother,' she replied ;
1 but if you do not wish to hear it, I will say no
more.'

1 Well, I certainly have no wish to listen to

VOL. I. E

a sorrowful tale, but as you want to relate it,
and I daresay will make me listen to it sooner
or later, I may as well hear it now and have
done with it.'

1 I am afraid you give me credit for an amount
of perseverance I do not possess,' replied Edith;
4 but as I know the incident is perfectly true,
and we are, I am afraid, making it applicable to
ourselves, I will, though with so little encouragement
from you, relate the particulars as far as
I can remember them.'

And as briefly as possible, of course said
Lyson, with a gay laugh.

Whether from personal merit, or the influence
of friends, I know not,' began Edith,
1 the gentleman of whom I am about to speak
received an appointment under Government,
where he had the charge of stores and of the
payment of a number of men under his command.
For some years all went fairly on. His
accounts were correctly kept, and the duties
of his office strictly observed. His inferiors
looked up to him with respect, and it was
understood that he was in a fair way of promotion
to a more lucrative post.

1 Government provided him with a house, in
which his wife and children made a happy
home. Little by little he grew fond of company
and expensive living, and step by step
went on increasing expenditure, until it exceeded

his income. Then, unfortunately for
him, instead of turning back from his ruinous
course, he trenched on the trust money to
supply his private need and meet the pressing
demands of men in whose power he had by his
thoughtless extravagance placed himself.

Then he borrowed money to replace that
which he had improperly used, and, to complete
his misfortune and that of his family, he
began to speculate in the funds with money
that was not his own, thinking in his self-created
blindness that, by a lucky stroke of
fortune, he could get himself victoriously out of
his difficulties.'

And did he do so,' asked the impatient
listener.

No ; ' returned Edith, ' on the contrary, he
became more deeply involved.'

Spent the Government money, and was turned
out of office,' cried Lyson ; ' oh, the rascal ! '

1 Pray, do not treat it as a jest,' said Edith.
It was as you say, but the mischief did not
end there. He went forth a ruined man to
work as a labourer, until death came to his
relief. His widow was left a pensioner on her
friends, and his daughters brought down from
the position which they had looked upon as
their own to a dependant state, in which they
had to labour to obtain the common necessaries
of life.'

That was unfortunate for them,' said Lysoru
'And now, Edith,' he continued, ' I have listened
to you, and you in return will, if you please,
listen to me while I note a point or two in
your very interesting narrative, which of
course I understand you meant for my instruction
to warn me, as sailors say, of " Rocks
ahead ! " First, then you must know that I
have too many sharp eyes to allow me to
tamper with any money that is not my own.
Secondly, if I have not money of my own,
and cannot reach that of other people's, I cannot
do much at speculation ; and thirdly, as we
have no children, our daughters cannot suffer
from any self-will or blindness of mine ; as for
my widow — well, we will talk about that another
time.'

What ! not satisfied yet ? ' he said, taking the
hand of his wife, who stood pale and motionless
with downcast eyes before him. He had riot
spoken angrily to her, nor said anything absolutely
cruel, but as she listened, a change
seemed to pass over her and make her feel as
if she was at some future time looking back
with horror upon the present.'

What! not satisfied ? ' he repeated in his gayest
tone. ' Come, come, take my word for it,
the world is not such an unlucky place as your
fears paint it. Of course men have gone
astray and suffered, but what is that to us.

We mean to be very careful, prudent, and wise
in our generation. We must make a little more
show in Paris than we have done, or we shall
soon be looked upon as nobodies, and treated
accordingly. When we have finally established
ourselves, we will go out and feed upon our
friends, instead of letting them feed upon us.'

This was the first time since Edith's return
that he had condescended to talk to her in any
manner, but by a few broken sentences of their
household arrangements. He knew as well as
she did that his present course could not long
continue, unless he could find some means of
replenishing his coffers. Fortunately for his
wife, the greater part of the fortune settled
upon her had, by the prudent management of
her father, been so ordered that it could not be
touched without her consent. Lyson, knowing
the ability of the gentleman he had to deal with
when the marriage settlements were being
drawn, had avoided anything like a grasping
disposition to benefit himself.

At that time the complete picture of vanity
fair had not presented itself before him. He
saw the path leading to it, and that was all.
To get in the path was his first object. He
knew that his would-be father-in-law and his
wife idolised Edith. Once he had made her
his own, every other blessing would follow as a
matter of course.

He must manage to keep on very good
terms with the old people, and then there would
be no difficulty about money matters. He had
not then, however, tested the depths of his
desire for pleasure, and had nothing more distinctly
in view than to obtain without thought
or labour the means of spending his life in
idleness and frivolity. He had yet to learn that
to start on his course dependent on the will
of another, would necessitate his holding himself
in subjection to that person, and looking to him
for guidance if he wished to retain his favour.
That he was not prepared to do, as he in his
self-conceit talked so masterly to his wife.

Time passed on, and little' change was observable
in the routine of their daily life.
Edith in public wore a smiling face, and wrote
cheerful letters home to her friends, but all was
not well within her heart ' She ceased to expostulate
with her husband upon his extravagance.
She saw that it was useless, and
that for awhile he must be left to himself.

When alone with him, the spirit of home
enjoyment departed from her. She became
listless, and could not, as he would have had
her, respond to his frivolous talk. This was
followed by a coldness, which gradually made
itself felt between them, and would have ended
in an open quarrel had not Lyson been convinced
that, to keep on good terms with Mr

Cresswell, he must put up with what he considered
the petulance of his wife.

Once when his balance at his bankers was
growing miserably short, and his creditors were
becoming troublesome, he set earnestly to work
to induce his wife to write to her father for
money, but with no other effect than to cause
her to rise from her chair and leave the room,
as she said, ' Xo, I cannot do that.'

It is very hard, he thought, when left to
himself, that a fellow should be so worried with
the idle fancies of a foolish girl. I must not
request her to write, and I cannot condescend
to ask her again as a favour. Yet money I
must have, and from my good father-in-law if
possible.

Then, without a word to Edith, he wrote to
Mr Cresswell to complain to him that a friend
in Paris had led him into a little trouble by
inducing him to give him a cheque, under a
promise that within a month the sum advanced
should be returned. That the month had expired,
but the promise had not been kept.
That he would at once appeal to the law
against the borrower, did he not know that hein
turn had been disappointed in not receiving
a remittance from Rome which he had
expected.

The plausible tale ended with an appeal to Mr
Cresswell to help him out of his unlooked-for

difficulty. 4 I have not,' he wrote, ' said a word
of this to Edith, and therefore I shall be glad,
when you send me the cheque, if you will be
silent on the reason of my asking you for it,
as the news of my mishap might worry her.'

When the letter reached Mr Cresswell he
showed it to his wife, and after a little debate
between them the desired cheque was sent,
with some words of caution on the necessity of
great care being used in the choice of our
friends. ' Bravely done, old fellow ! ' cried
Lyson on reading the epistle. ' Of course I
shall be very careful.' Looking about him to
see who were the most pressing of his creditors,
he set to work with a very high hand. Sent
for them, and then having paid their bills,
desired them never to presume to come to his
house again.

Following this, all might for a time have
been well, had not an unfortunate fancy seized
upon his brain, and brought a cloud upon his
brow. Edith had ceased to trouble him with
her cautions, and his creditors were silenced.
His invitations out were frequent, and the
world appeared in the best possible humour
with him. The male part of it very attentive
to his wife, but most provokingly, he fancied,
she courted the smiles of others when she
entirely disregarded his, and this more especially
when they chanced to be alone together.

He, full of self, with a desire to have all
things pleasant around him, could not understand
why she should appear to enter so little
into his feelings. Why, when he would have
her talk and laugh and sing, she was so little
responsive to his desire ? Why should she sit
at her precious stitching so intently ? Why
grow so pale and thin ? Had he not provided
her with every luxury the gay city of
Paris could place before her ? W T hat more
could she want to make her happy, and ever
greet him with a smiling face ?

Suddenly, from the chance expression of a
friend, a new light broke in upon him. The
smiles that of right belonged to him were
lavished upon another, and that other one
whom he dared not, for private reasons, quarrel
with or forbid him to enter his house. For
the same cause he could not speak to his wife
upon the subject, lest she should repeat his
words to the man he looked upon as his rival
in her affection. Yet he could not entirely
disguise his feelings, and consequently his
behaviour became most perplexing and distressing
to Edith. She could not understand
his strange insinuations, as she was as free
from any thought that did not become a true
wife as he was unmindful of his marriage vow.

Heated with his own vile imaginings, while
he set a watch upon his wife's movements, he

plunged himself more deeply into forbidden?
pleasures. In pursuit of them his office work
grew distasteful, and was too often neglected,,
while his extravagance made him constantly in
want of money. He applied to his father for
help, and was not ashamed, under a charge of
secrecy to his sisters, to get from them almost
every penny they could call their own.

Nor did Mr Cresswell escape from further
importunities. On two occasions after the one
already mentioned, he sent him a cheque.
Then he became doubtful of the manner in
which the money was spent, and at the same
time not feeling quite satisfied with the tone of
his daughter's letters, he resolved with his wife
to go over to Paris and see with his own eyes
the real state of affairs.

He gave them but a very short notice of
his intended visit, so that they might not have
time to make any great preparation for his-coming.
He and his wife wished to see them
in their every-day mode of life. Whether this
was wise or not on their part may be questionable,
as they found Edith in a very excitable
condition, and looking thin and careworn.
But they could learn nothing from her to
warrant their active interference between her
and her husband. She had too much regard
for their happiness to increase their anxiety-respecting
her welfare.

/ y

Mr Cresswell talked very seriously about
giving cheques for mere promises of repayment,
backing bills for friends, and all that sort of
thing, which Lyson, taken aback by his sudden
appearance in Paris, listened to with a submissive
air, and gave abundance of assurances that,
for the future, he would be much more careful
than he had hitherto been. He did not attempt,
for a very good reason, to show a balance-sheet
of his affairs, or give the names of the gentlemen
who owed him money.

After a little close observation of his son-in-law,
Mr Cresswell thought it better to halt at the
point he had reached than to pursue the subject
further. Alluding to Edith, he said, ' She appears
to be in want of change of air and
scene, and we shall be very happy to have
her home with us in England for a month or
two.'

But I am not at liberty just at present to go
with you,' observed Lyson, and then, after a
moment's hesitation, he added, ' and I don't
see how I could very well manage my domestic
affairs here without her assistance.'

1 You need not fear,' said Mr Cresswell, with
a curious smile, ' of trusting her with us, and
for the inconvenience her absence will occasion
in the house, I think we could find the means
of helping you to supply the deficiency with the
services of a good servant or two.'

You are not perhaps aware,' replied Lyson,
4 that the articles you speak of are very rare and
expensive in Paris.'

I have read somewhere,' said Mr Cresswell,
with the same curious smile as before, ' that
every one has his price. Now, you know, I
am not a man to prolong a negotiation for the
mere pleasure or amusement of talking about
it. You wrote to me to say you w r ere in want
of money.'

Through my misfortune of trusting men I
ought not to have done,' broke in Lyson.

We will not waste time on that subject
said Mr Cresswell, ' as perchance it would not
prove satisfactory to either of us. I brought
my cheque-book with me, and I am prepared
to make use of it to help you out of your
present difficulty, if you are agreeable, without
further question, to let Edith set out with us
tomorrow for a long holiday.'

I shall be glad of the cheque,' said Lyson,
and the more so, if you can put off your
carrying away Edith from me for a day
longer.'

That I cannot well do,' rejoined Mr Cress-well,
'as I must myself leave Paris tomorrow,
and I cannot ask the ladies to follow me without
an escort.'

1 Well, then,' replied Lyson, with a well-assumed
desponding air, ' I suppose it must be

as you say, but be assured I shall miss my poor
Edith very much.'

Thus the matter was settled. Mr Cresswell
wrote out the desired cheque, his conscience a
little troubling him, that he was perchance only
aiding a profligate on his road to ruin. He
felt, however, that it was the only course that
was open to him. He could not take his
daughter away by any other means, without
much deception, or an open quarrel.

Lyson had, on his part, assumed a distress
he did not feel, as his jealous heart made him
rather exult over the disappointment it would
prove to his wife, and her supposed gallant on
their sudden separation, while to himself the
idea was very pleasant, as during the time he
left her at Downend, her father's cheque-book
would be the more readily come-table by
him.

With a light heart, Edith accompanied her
father and mother on their departure from
Paris. The conversation that had taken place
between her father and her husband had not
reached her ear, and she knew nothing of their
arrangements. Happy in the company of her
parents, she answered to the farewell of her
husband with kind words, and an hopeful
expression of countenance.

T has been remarked that Sir Edward
was a frequent visitor at Downend,
where his advice and counsel were
much valued in the trouble that had
come upon his old home in connection with the
marriage of Edith. It was a delicate business
for him to speak upon, and doubtless had he
not been invited, he would not have volunteered
a single word. Chancing to call a day or two
before Mr and Mrs Cresswell set out on their
journey to Paris, he found them in a state of
great anxiety about Edith.

Three years had nearly elapsed since they
had last seen her. Lyson had promised many
times to bring her over to see them at Down-end,
and most earnestly so, when Mr Cresswell
had written to say, if he could not spare the
time for the journey, he would come and fetch
her himself. Lyson had no desire to see him
in Paris, and little or none to visit him in

England, where he would not only have to
submit to be questioned by him, but also by his
father and sisters — his wife meantime being
dealt with as a spy upon his late actions. So
from time to time he wrote, as he found occasion
required, to renew his promise of a visit
without the slightest intention of carrying it
into effect.

Conversations had taken place between Mr
Cresswell and the father of Lyson on the promised
visits, but nothing had resulted from
them but disappointment. The vicar strove
to close his eyes to the duplicity implied in his
son's conduct, and speak cheerfully of looking
forward to the time when all obstacles to the
visit would be put aside. While his daughters
expressed their confidence that their dear
brother and sister would certainly come in a
very short time, since Maypole had written to
say he was dying to see them.

One of these vexatious applications for
money, with a keen remembrance of a late
broken promise, was fresh upon the mind of
Mr Cresswell, when Sir Edward chanced to
make his call. The nervousness of his first
visit on his return from his tour had long since
passed away, and he could enter his old home
without any visible emotion. After listening
to Mr Cresswell, who spoke to him alone, and
in confidence of his growing fear that his son-in-law

was involving himself in difficulties
through his love of what he called fashionable
life, and that Edith was not so happy as he had
hoped she would be.

Sir Edward had heard something of Lyson's
fashionable career, and seeing that Mr Cress-well
could only satisfy his doubts by a visit to
Paris, approved of his design of going, and
advised him to set off on his journey immediately.
Luckily Lyson's sisters knew nothing
of his purpose, or the gentleman might have
been better prepared for his visitor.

Mr and Mrs Cresswell reached home safely
with their charge. By the way they had talked
much of Edith's life in Paris during the last
three years, and put many disguised but searching
questions to her, to discover if she had not
reason to complain of the manner in which she
had been treated by her husband. Had Edith
been thoughtless and heedless of their happiness,
or let them feel that she had been neglected
and unhappy, she would have made them very
miserable when they thought how slow they
had been to act on their own convictions.

Observing this, she resolved to appear very
cheerful, and reply in a general way to their
questions, admit that she was sometimes a little
tired and weary of her gay every-day life in
Paris, but say nothing of the dull dreary feeling
that had hung about her heart when she compared

her present state with the remembrance
she had of her happy childhood. She was
pleased to hear that Sir Edward Harewood
continued to visit them in his old affectionate
manner. As she had had never any reason to
suspect that his regard for her was anything more
than a brother might feel for a sister, there was
no nervousness on her part on her meeting
with him when on her visits to her father. Had
Sir Edward been questioned on the state of his
heart on such occasions, he could not have
answered truly if he had said it appeared unconscious
of the past.

But when they first met after her marriage,
he was without fear of any ill consequences
arising from its throbbing. Their positions were
very different then to what they were at the
time of his great disappointment. Then they
were both free as far as marriage was concerned,
and any event for the moment appeared possible.
Now all was changed, each one had
plighted faith to another, and there was no disposition
on the part of either to be unmindful
of their duty. In Edith's ignorance of what
Sir Edward's feelings had been towards her,
they could still meet freely on the old terms of
brother and sister.

Mr Cress well had scarcely reached Downend
when a letter followed him from Lyson, who
professed to be very anxious about the health

VOL. I. F

of his wife, and how she had borne the journey.
A week afterwards, he wrote to say he was
very unhappy without her, and that he had
very serious thoughts of crossing the Channel
to fetch her home, as he found his house was
getting into great disorder, and the extravagance
of his servants beyond endurance, but on
receiving a cheque to cover additional expenses,
he was content to leave her a little longer at
Downend.

It was a mere pretence to speak of the servants.
The extravagance was his own, and
the mischief it would end in rapidly approaching.
He became less choice in his companions,
while more devoted to pleasure. At length
whispers were heard that involved his reputation
for honest dealing in his office. It was
thought that the head of his department would
publicly investigate the scandal ; but the end in
view was obtained by a private inquiry, which
brought the disreputable proceeding so closely
home to two gentlemen, that they were with
very little ceremony dismissed from their employment.
One of these gentlemen was Clay-pole
Lyson. When charged with the offence,
he met it with an indignant denial, and appealed
to his length of service as a proof of his honesty.

His denial, however, failed to convince his
superiors. He was told that if he was not
satisfied with the private inquiry that had been

made, a public one would be commenced, in
which, if he failed to prove his innocence, he
would be severely dealt with. He was silenced.
He knew but too well how little able he was to
meet the charge in public, and, therefore, with
his companion in infamy, quietly disappeared.

But he carried one advantage with him. As
the inquiry had been private, he could fairly
insinuate amongst his friends and acquaintances
that he had fallen a victim to the jealousy of
some persons who feared he was treading too
closely on their heels in the way of preferment.
To his wife and her father he wrote in a despairing
tone of the event, and wearily complained
of the manner in which, after his long
and faithful service, he had been treated. But
he would not submit in silence. No ; he would
bring his case before the public, and cover his
enemies with shame yet, finishing by a suspicious
request that nothing should be done by
his friends at Downend until he could come
over and personally explain the matter to them.

His letter to his father ran very much in the
same strain, but, as in the case of Mr Cresswell,
it failed to produce the desired effect. He had
deceived them, or attempted to do so, so many
times, that they had ceased to look upon his
letters as at all trustworthy. The poor vicar
was almost broken-hearted when he contemplated
the position in which his son had placed

himself, and that which he might have occupied.
He knew not what to advise. His means had
been sadly crippled by the constant begging of
his son, and he also knew that his daughters
were nearly penniless from the same cause,
although they were as earnest as ever in believing
that their dear brother was greatly to be
pitied from having fallen into the hands of so
many false friends and secret enemies.

Mr Cresswell having fully satisfied himself
that the return of the prodigal to England, in
the present state of his mind, could only add
to his daughter's unhappiness, took the most
effectual means he was able to prevent his
doing so. He answered his letter without
expressing any opinion upon the matter in
question. Said it was unfortunate that his long
service should have had no better ending, and
then went on to tell him that he had some
friends in Canada, to whom he would give him
letters of introduction if he chose to undertake
the voyage, and that until he could obtain some
suitable employment there he would place to
his account six hundred pounds, which he could
draw quarterly upon in Paris or Quebec, until
further notice. Meantime, his wife could remain
with them at Downend.

He would have had some scruple in acting
thus, had not his daughter's happiness been
very dear to him. He saw her, when not

annoyed or distressed by her husband's letters,
comparatively happy in her old home, making
herself very useful, and showing no inclination
to leave it. She had felt that she had no power
of controlling her husband's wayward disposition,
and although her feelings towards him had
not assumed anything like a tone of hatred, she
had no disposition under present circumstances
to place herself again in his power.

She did not know the depth of the pit into
which he had plunged ; but she knew quite
enough that the tone of their minds was so
strangely at variance with each other, that nothing
but discord could result from any further
attempt to blend them together.

It may look a little like bribery on the part
of Mr Cresswell in his placing such a sum of
money in the hands of his worthless son-in-law ;
but the reader will do well not to conclude that
such was actually the case. The money value
had little to do with it. He was well assured
that the prodigal would not then return to England,
though, under pretence of doing so, he
would be continually worrying him and Edith
for money, and thereby keep them in a constant
state of agitation.

Had Mr Cresswell thought that his daughter's
duty called her to the side of her husband, and
that he was not so far gone on his reckless path
but she might draw him back, he would have

acted otherwise. He was, however, hopeless
of anything of the sort resulting from the sacrifice
she would be called upon to make in the
attempt. He would give him the opportunity
of going to Canada. It might be that a change
of scene and circumstance would effect what
advice had been powerless to do, and bring
about a reformation so greatly needed.

This might have been the case had Lyson
been prepared to do his part towards it. But
he was not so.

Go to Canada ! ' he said, with a shiver. ' The
cold would kill me there, and however pleasant
that might be to certain parties in England, it
would be a dreary finish for me. No ; I will
not go there. It is too far north. My inclination
is for the sunny south, and with the means
my good father-in-law will place at my disposal,
thitherward will I go.'

This resolution, however, was not expressed
in his answer to Mr Cresswell. On the contrary,
he spoke of his going to Brest very
shortly to secure his passage.

Having received his credit-note, with his
letters of introduction, and sent back a reply,
he lingered in Paris for a few days, and then
took the train for Marseilles. Though he had
resolved not to go to Canada, he found that it
might interfere with his movements if he remained
longer in his present abode, from a hint

he received that some old creditors were likely
to become troublesome. Then he wrote to Mr
Cresswell to say that, by some strange mistake,
when he should have been at Brest, he found
himself at Marseilles. That he had not cashed
his note in Paris, and would be greatly obliged
if it could be made payable in the south, ashe
was very much in want of change.

Mr Cresswell, with a sigh, made the alteration
in the place of payment, and for some time
afterwards heard nothing more of his troublesome
correspondent. He had reason to believe
that his letters of introduction were never delivered
in Canada, and that the bearer of them
remained somewhere on the Continent, as the
quarterly instalment of his pension was regularly
applied for at his bankers in Marseilles.

Meantime, while Lyson was thus wasting his
talents and opportunities of doing good, time
was carrying with it the affairs of Woodfield
and Downend in their ordinary quiet course.
Sir Edward was still the active magistrate and
observant landlord. His seat as chairman at
the school board was rarely vacant, and when
at home he had his eldest son constantly near
at hand, that he might lose no opportunity of
arousing him to a sense of his position, and the
necessity there was for him to throw off his
nervousness, and to apply his mind vigorously
to some definite study.

In dealing with the education of his son, it
must be admitted that he invariably met with
disappointment in the realisation of his wishes.
He did not sufficiently understand the character
of the mind of his son. He had concluded
that it was one that needed an upward
pressure to save it from sinking into a hopeless
state of dependence upon others. In early life
he had felt himself that he was entirely free
from a like weakness, but he resolved to rise
superior to it.

The struggle had not been a vain one. Year
by year saw him more completely master of
himself. Opinions and suggestions might come
before him, with all the confidence and impulse
of youth, or hesitatingly from the lips of failing
age, but neither in the one case nor the other
was he led astray by appearances. Coolly and
deliberately he looked for the truth, and having
grasped it, acted on its dictates. To such a
state by his training, had it been possible, he
would have brought the mind of his son. But
it was not possible, and hence his mistake.

The oak must come from the acorn. There
can be no grafting it upon the river-side willow.
A strong mind may have no difficulty in subjecting
a weaker one to its influence ; but when
it attempts to raise a weak one to its own
standard, it can have but one ending, and that
a miserable failure. And so it was that, instead

of adding strength to Oliver's character, Sir
Edward went very far to confirm him in his
natural weakness. When he would have had
him meet him with a smile and an unfaltering
tongue, he would be met with downcast eyes
and a quivering lip. Had the brother, Jesse,
been subjected to a like treatment, it would
have produced an instantaneous effect ; but in
his case happily it was not needed.

After many months of home-training, and
Oliver had reached his nineteenth year, his
father resolved that, however hopeless the task
might appear, he would not relax his efforts
until another year was added to the past. His
girls had given him very little cause for the
exercise of his authority with respect to them.
Charlotte continued her close acquaintance with
Miss Gordon after leaving school, and spent a
great part of her time with her in the village,
chiefly in visiting the poor and sick. Grace
was still in the hands of Mrs Gibson, and it was
settled that it would not require more than a
year or two from home to finish her education.

Sir Edward purposed that Jesse, when he
had finished his school course, should do as he
himself had done, spend two or three years at
Oxford ; but now that the time had come for
him to make earnest preparation for his going,
an obstacle appeared to be arising in opposition
to the plan from the principal person concerned.

In his reading Jesse's taste had led him to
books of travel, and for years he had been
enamoured with the stories he had read of
the strange and wild manners of the people
who have for unknown ages scarcely risen in
intelligence one degree above the instincts of
animal life, save in the art of torture and destruction.
Observing the bent of his mind, his
father had sought to turn it to account by recommending
him to read books in which geography
formed a leading feature, that he might
understand the many difficulties with which a
traveller must have to contend as soon as he
crosses the border, in whatever portion of the
earth he may be, that lies between civilisation
and savage life. Nothing daunted with the
task before him, Jesse had seized eagerly upon
the books pointed out, increased his knowledge,
and strengthened his desire.

Just at that time the report one of our
famous travellers had brought home from Africa
had full possession of the public ear. Newspapers
and magazines had in them long extracts
from it, with comments and criticisms of a
very flattering character. What could Oxford
give in comparison to such a life ? True, it
would keep his feet in the old path of routine,
which had been worn tolerably smooth by the
multitude that had passed over it, with but
little advantage to themselves or their fellows.

To talk was but the shadow of to do, and he
would rather have the substance than the
shadow.

1 My dear boy,' said Sir Edward on one
occasion, ' you are becoming quite an enthusiast
in your desire to follow in the footsteps
of the great and good man Livingstone.
But you must understand he did not go out
unprepared for his work. He carried with
him a knowledge of medicine, added to his
missionary zeal, which caused him to be received
as a friend by the savage people of
the country.'

1 But all travellers are not doctors,' observed
Jesse in an inquiring tone.

1 Not all, perhaps,' replied Sir Edward ; ' but
I think you must have observed in your reading
that the men who had only a slight knowledge
of medicine did better than those who
had none. For my own part, so convinced
am I of its usefulness, that if I had the power
I would not let even one single missionary
leave England without his having passed a
slight examination in the theory and practice
of medicine. Think how the matter of leading
people to a better state of life was practised
in the olden time, when the paths in the Holy
Land echoed to the footsteps of the Saviour.
While He talked to men of the kingdom of
heaven, His acts had to do with the sufferings

of humanity. The poor and the maimed and
the halt gathered round Him, because they
saw He had the power to heal them. And
why should it not be so with the missionaries
of the present day, if they went forth fully
furnished for their work?'

But one cannot be expected to compare
one's self with the Saviour,' argued Jesse.

Still one may endeavour to walk as He
walked, and imitate His actions to the extent
of one's power. You will perhaps say that His
power over the minds of men was infinite, and
that He had but to speak the word and health
and vigour were restored to the withered limb.
But because we cannot heal as He did, is it
right to say we can have no power over the
diseased limb or the sickness of the body r
Prove to the blind man that you can cure his
blindness, and he will not stop to ask you
how you acquired the power.'

1 But to end the argument, my advice to you is
that you embrace the opportunity that is presented
to you of spending some months in study
at home and then going to Oxford. I do not
say that I am most earnest that you should go,
because I have so much confidence in your good
sense and reliance on your judgment, that I
believe you will not wilfully go wrong. If you
would rather put off for a time your going to
Oxford, and take up the study of medicine and

surgery under some skilful practitioner, I have
r.o objection to offer ; but. acting on my own
convictions, I cannot consent to your going
forth unprepared to a task, of which you can
have but a very poor conception from the report
of others.'

Thus the matter for the time ended. Without
absolutely determining that he would not
go to Oxford, Jesse procured the most popular
books on the theory and practice of medicine.
and set about his task of reading with lion-like
courage. His father so far showing his approval
of his purpose by speaking to a chemist
of the neighbourhood to give him an hour or
two's lesson daily until he could see how far
his pupil would be likely to succeed with a more
systematic study.

So earnestly did Jesse for some weeks follow
up his work that he scarcely left himself time to
eat, drink, or sleep. Could he have, without
weariness of mind or body, continued as he had
commenced, he would soon have been able to
convince his father that he was making rapid
progress towards the end he had in view. But
the intense application of his mind, with lit le
or no regard to the state of his body, seriously
affected his health, and thus the business in
hand was brought to a sudden halt. The physician
who was called in put his veto on the
books at least for some time, and directed, in as

far as the weather would permit, the greater
part of the day should be spent by Jesse in the
open air.

It was now the month of October, and a dry
season had just set in. Jesse was as fond of
a gun as his elder brother was fearful of touching
one, and therefore as soon as he had recovered
a little from his sudden attack of illness,
he joined the keepers in their daily rounds
through the woods and preserves that bounded
two sides of the park. He was not a first-rate
shot, but he had sufficient skill in the use
of his weapon to carry home with him some
proof of his success.

In a retired spot near the park, having a belt
of lofty elms on three sides of it, about half-a-mile
from the Hall, a former proprietor had
built a moderately-sized house for the head
keeper and his family, with accommodation,
by a separate door at the side, for an assistant.
The spot was doubtless chosen in consequence
of its fitness for pheasant hatching, and that the
young birds might have constant attention, so
necessary for keeping the woods and preserves
well supplied with game.

Of course at that season of the year the lawn
in front of the house gave no evidence of the
busy scene of fluttering life that might be seen
at the close of the breeding season. The careful
mother and her venturesome brood were

parted, and no longer visible there. Their
call did not echo through the house, or their
bright plumage glitter in the sun. They were
gone — scattered abroad — strangers to each
other.

Still the spot was not devoid of interest or
beauty. The front of the house, having a
southern aspect, was covered with late-blooming
roses, intermingled, or rather having at the
sides, jasmine, clematis, and the ever sweet and
homely honeysuckle. Around, at a little distance,
forming a sort of underwood to the lofty
elms, were shrubs and trees of a lower growth,
tinted with all the various hues with which
nature at that season of the year appears to
delight to deck herself preparatory to her
winter's sleep. The house was placed on a
slight rise at the end of a valley, which ran
through the park as far as the eye could reach
to distinguish individual objects.

Standing at his front door, with his well-trained
ear alive to every sound that floated
through the air, by night or day the keeper had
little difficulty in deciding to what part of the
grounds he should direct his steps to meet with
any stranger, whether man or beast, who had
dared to invade his domain. The present
occupier of the house was a strong, hale man,
who had not yet reached his fiftieth year.

His father had been head keeper under the

late Sir Henry, and he had been employed on
the estate from his youth. First, as a boy
at every one's call, then as under keeper, and
further, on the death of his father, in his present
influential position. His character for
uprightness and strict attention to his duty
was so strongly impressed upon his assistants,
and so well known throughout that part of the
country, that it was a rare thing for a poacher
to give him any trouble. The chief pleasure
and ambition of his life appeared to consist in
keeping up a good stock of game, and attending
Sir Edward and his friends over the estate.

Within doors he was surrounded by a young
family, and a bustling wife a few years younger
than himself. Four out of his five children
were of school age, and constant in their
attendance at the village little temple of learning.
The fifth, a short, chubby fellow, just
able to toddle about, was kept at home generally,
hanging about his mother, but nominally
under the charge of Miss Lizzie Montag, a
young person who had, when quite a child,
been placed under the care of the mother of
the present keeper.

Shortly before his mother's death the keeper
married. His wife and Miss Montag were
well suited to each other. The elder one had
early and carefully been taught the duties that
pertain to the management of an English

home. Of that she soon gave full proof in her
own house, which was always a pattern of
neatness and order. Miss Montag was, of
course, fully under her influence, and happily
she had no desire that it should be otherwise.
Possessed of a bright, sunny face and a cheerful
disposition, discord had found no place to
struggle in between them.

Whatever Mrs Smith might say or do never
brought more than a thoughtful look over the
countenance of her companion, and it must be
confessed that she had not always been very
complimentary in her remarks on the manner
in which certain portions of the day's proceedings
were to be carried out. A splash on the
glass, a spider on the wall, or a beetle on the
floor, was an abomination, and sent her with
brush and duster to attack it, with an energy
known only to few in this dreamy world.

Miss Montag took reproof without contention,
and consequently the two became greatly
attached to each other, and many a pleasant
walk did they take together, accompanied by a
troop of children, who, having finished school
for the day, could not rest a moment in one
place. At one season of the year they were
chasing the butterflies from flower to flower,
and at another blacking their hands and faces
with the blackberries so abundant on the
bushes.

vol. 1. G

At times the father would suddenly come
upon them from an opening in the wood, and
then a burst, or rather scream, of pleasure
would echo around, and cause the birds to
hurry away in a confused flutter of surprise and
fear. Sometimes, instead of the father it would
be one of the under keepers, when there would
be a little ceremony gone through between him
and the elders, while the children pressed
around him to ask him a thousand questions
about the hares and rabbits in the woods, and
whether any one had been able to catch the
squirrel alive they wanted so much.

Such a catch, however, was not likely to take
place, as Mrs Smith had secretly forbidden it.
Squirrels were all very pretty, she would say,
on the trees at a distance, but she would not
have them alive in-doors, dirtying the house
and, perchance, biting off one of the children's
fingers.

HI LIP LEA, who was now the

tenant of the part of the house apportioned
to the under keeper, had
not been long in his present situation,
nor did he appear particularly fond of it.
When in the village school he had obtained
the special notice of Sir Edward Harewood by
some ready answers he had given him in his
class, and as he was the son of his personal
attendant, out of respect for the father he continued
to notice him, until at length he removed
him from the village to a boarding-school at a
distance, with a view to his future advancement.
The youth had thus a career opened before
him, which, if he had taken advantage of, and
his moral perceptions had been equal to his
mental ability, he might have become a distinguished
man. He was ambitious, and gained
many prizes in the classes through which he
rapidly passed, and might shortly, with Sir

Edward's assistance, have worked his way upto
the university, had he not betrayed a kind
of pride which his patron could in no wise
sanction.

On his occasional visits to Woodfield during
his vacations, Sir Edward was in the habit of
inviting him into his library, bidding him take
a seat, sitting down himself, and conversing
freely with him. This treatment affected the
youth's brain, and he grew giddy and self-conceited.
He did not, however, cease to
endeavour to make himself agreeable to his
patron, but he unceremoniously gave his father
the cold shoulder, and looked upon his old
associates of the village school with supreme
contempt. When it needed but one step for
him to grossly insult his father, his conduct
came under the notice of Sir Edward, who did
not fail to take him seriously to task upon the
subject, and to point out to him how inconsistent
it must appear if his advancement in mental
pursuits should make his moral duties less
binding upon him.

1 Ignorance in any case is to be deplored when
it acts injuriously on the human race,' he remarked.
' But the ignorance of their duty that
is sometimes unhappily displayed by children
towards their parents is, to speak only lightly
of it, most despicable. Is it any disgrace to
you, do you think, to have a father who has

not had the benefit of a classical education,
when that father is filling his allotted place
in life with credit to himself and advantage to
his employer ? I had hoped better things of
you, Philip, and I must beg you will now go at
once to your father and ask him to pardon you
for the discourtesy you have shown him, with
an assurance that you will be more careful of
your duty for the time to come.'

Philip bit his lip, and answered submissively,
but he did not go to his father in the child-like
manner indicated to him. No, he went with a
complaint that he or some one else had bee'?
chattering to Sir Edward about him, and the'
he would thank him not to do it again, or he
might have reason to be very sorry for it
Having delivered himself of his ungracious
speech, he bounced out of the house and did
not return again for many days. ' I am resolved,'
he muttered, ' not to submit to such
dictatorial treatment, even from Sir Edward
himself. I daresay it will not be to my
interest to quarrel with him, but what can I
do to help it if he talks to me in such a way ?
So far he has helped me, no doubt. But why
has he helped me ? He would have me understand
that it was out of respect for my father.
Why did he not do it, then, before he discovered
I had something more in me than most other
boys ? I wonder if it was my mental abilities

or my moral qualities that caused him to notice
me ? No, I don't wonder at all. I know if I
had only been what he is pleased to call a good
boy, he would simply have patted me on the
head and left me in the common crowd.'

With such a spirit animating his breast,
darkness fell upon his soul, and he could neither
speak nor think aright. A frown settled on his
brow, while murmurs of discontent escaped
from his lips. He resolved he would have no
more of school. Was he not eighteen years
old, and could he not get his own living without
being beholden to any one ? He would try.
He wrote a few lines to Sir Edward to thank
him for his past kindness, but he spent sometime
thinking of its necessity before he could
condescend to put pen to paper, and only
brought himself to the point of consenting by
considering that it was the right thing for one
gentleman to do to another.

No more school for me,' he repeated, as he
packed up the few things he could call his own r
and without waiting for an answer to his note,,
or giving his father or grandfather, who also was
in the service of Sir Edward, the slightest intimation
of his purpose, he took a third-class
ticket at the station, and set out for London,
Besides the property he carried in his portmanteau,
he had about thirty shillings in money,
and, upon the strength of that, he was on his

own account to start in the race of life amidst
thousands of competitors as eager as himself,
and who had not left a straight path to encounter
the dangers of a crooked one.

Doubtless many a youth has started on the
road to successful fortune with less means than
he had at his disposal, and in due course has
arrived at the end of his journey. But it was
not so with him. Still he made a resolute
attempt. Stopping at a coffee-house in a
narrow street near the London Bridge Station,
he secured a bed for the night, and a safe place
in which to bestow his property while he went
out in search of employment, of what kind
chance must determine.

As he was going down a busy street looking
at the shops to see if there were any notices
posted up of assistants required, he saw in a
stationer's shop window, amidst the articles
offered for sale, a paper, on which was written,
A lad wanted here.' Stepping boldly in, he was
received encouragingly by the master, and in
answer to his inquiries of where he came from,
if he had a father, etc., was obliged to fence
about a little, and not stop short of what he
was willing to think was only a white lie or
two. A customer coming into the shop, the
master stopped from his questions, and said,
1 If you will call tomorrow morning and bring
your father with you, 1 will see you again.'

Thank you, sir,' was the reply. As he left
the door he muttered, almost loud enough to
be heard above the din in the noisy street,
1 Bring my father with me ? My father ! A
plague take him. I think he was sent into the
world only to get in my way. Coffee, with a
roll and butter, is all I can afford to-night,' he
thought, as he entered the door of his temporary
home.

The next morning he was about betimes, and
looking eagerly over the lists of advertisements,
that appeared to him to nearly fill the papers,
he saw several youths were wanted in different
parts of London ; but there was generally a
word or two at the end of the notice not at all
agreeable to look at. He took down some of
these, and having again indulged in coffee, roll
and butter, he sallied out to see the master of
the shop who had invited him to call again.
He had put together a few sentences by which
he might account for the absence of his father.

By some unaccountable neglect on the previous
evening, he had forgotten to look at the
name of the street or the name of the person he
was going to see. He thought he could go
straight to the shop, but after wandering about
unsuccessfully for a couple of hours, he was
obliged to give up his search in despair of ever
finding the place again.

Then, with his list in his hand, which he had

taken from the papers, he set out on his new
mission ; but from his little acquaintance with
London, he made streets that lay close together
very far apart by the roundabout way he went
from the one to the other. More than once
his appearance seemed to make a good impression
upon the gentlemen on whom he called ;
but when he hesitated respecting the references
they required, he was politely told they
would write to him if they should require his
services.

This kind of answer, he was not loner in discovering,
meant a simple dismissal. So from
day to day he went on for a week, because he
would not brine his father on the scene. ■ And
suppose I did send for him,' he thought, ' what
could it profit me ? He is only a servant, and
his presence would cause me to be snubbed out
of the office.' He had no good angel to whisper
in his ear that, if he did not like his father's
position, it was for him to continue in the path
of duty, and, by his exertions, remove him from
it instead of wishing to forget that he had a
father.

At length fortune seemed to smile upon him.
In the second week of his life in London, when
his money was nearly gone, and he was becoming
more desperate every day, he entered, from
an invitation in the window, a showy establishment
which appeared to have been just opened

for the management of some very profitable
gold mines in South America. After a little
conversation with the manager, he was engaged
on the spot as a clerk, at a salary of a pound
a-week.

Something was said about his leaving a deposit
as a guarantee of his honesty and good
behaviour, but when he was obliged to confess
that he had no money, and did not know whereto
go for any, he said he was willing a part
of his weekly salary should be held in hand,,
and forfeited at any time if he should be found
neglectful of his duty.

After a little demur on the part of the
manager, his terms were accepted, and he was
immediately installed in his office. He soon
learnt that the establishment was in its infancy,,
and that a great part of his duty would consist
in his assisting the principal in its careful
nursing. The gentleman with whom he was
brought into such close contact seemed to
him to know everybody and everybody's business.
He was a short, stout man, about forty
years of age, with a well-trimmed beard and
very carefully dressed. Black hair and dark,
sharp, searching eyes, and generally of a very
confident bearing. He spoke as if he could
command the world from the great experience
he had had in its working. A few words with
Philip had shown him that he was just the:

kind of youth he wanted, and hence the little
difficulty in his engagement.

His chief work consisted in his preparing
advertisements for the newspapers, folding up
notices of the splendid mine that had been discovered,
and directing them to ladies and
gentlemen all over the country from the lists of
railway stock holders, of which there was no
want in the office. He was surprised to find
that he was the only regularly established clerk
in the place. Men occasionally came in, some
very showily dressed, and others in threadbare
attire, who evidently belonged to the concern ;
but they did nothing more than look over some
printed papers, ask a few questions, and go into
the manager's private room, or lounge back again
into the street.

A few days served to show the young clerk
that his visitors were the managing committee,
so much vaunted in the prospectus for their
position and ability to control the affairs of the
company, which was calculated unfailingly to
pay at least fifty per cent, as soon as the mine
could be got into fair working order, and until
that could be accomplished, six per cent, was
guaranteed to all subscribers.

Philip had learnt something of bubble companies
in the newspaper reports, and he was
shortly convinced that he had found employment
in one of the most promising of its kind.

But, bubble or not, he agreed with himself
that it was no business of his. ' I must live,'
he thought, ' and if they will not have me in a
house built on a rock, I must do the best I can
in one built on sand.'

I think,' said the manager one day to him,
after he had been nearly a month in his office,
you have given me good proof that you can
be trusted, and therefore I need not in future
make any deduction in your salary.'

1 1 am glad to hear you say so,' said Philip,
'as I have some trouble under our present
arrangement to keep out of debt.'

Are you in want of money ? ' asked the
manager.

I Not absolutely in want,' was the reply.

'If you are ever,' began the manager, 'you
can' — he then suddenly stopped, and, after a
pause, said, ' By-the-bye I may as well let you
have what I have of yours in hand.' Then
opening a well-filled purse, he continued, ' I
see I have nothing less than a five-pound note.
You can take that, and let me have the change
in the course of the day.' He then, with a
smile of confidence, turned away and entered
his private room.

In a moment his bell rung, and Philip
followed him in.

I I am a little awkwardly situated,' he said.
4 I forgot to ask Mr Maitland and Mr Spence

to sign their names on the papers they have
left with me. It is of no great moment, but I
like to have everything in order. Just put
their names down here for them. I see you
have your pen in your hand. You need not
be particular to stop for careful writing, any
scratch will do.'

Philip moved towards the table. He had
no hesitation about doing as he was required.
There did not appear anything very noticeable
in the transaction, as he was copying out names
from one list or another in his office work the
greater part of the day. The manager was
very busy, and in a great hurry to have the
signatures affixed. But as the old proverb has
it, 'the more haste the less speed.' In pointing
to the papers on the table, he knocked the
steel pen out of his clerk's hand and damaged
the nib.

The clerk was turning to get another, when
his employer said impatiently, ' The one you
have will do. You know it is only a mere matter
of form ; ' but here he added, when one paper
was signed, ' here is a quill pen, use this
When the clerk returned to his own desk he
was not at all satisfied with his late performance.
He had written disgracefully, in characters
which he thought no one could read.

From that time his office work, while it
lasted, was made very pleasant by the commendations

of his chief, and he began to think
that he was in a fair way of getting a few of
the feathers out of the wing of the wild goose
he had in the first week of his disappointment
in London felt he had set out in search of.

The bubble in which he was taking a part
was only too successful in alluring victims
within its grasp. Some thousands of pounds
from persons who could ill afford to lose them
fell into the rogue's hands. When it was too
late to recover much that was gone, some of
the victimised, becoming alarmed, got together
a few of their fellow-sufferers and formed a
committee of investigation, and proceeded to
the office. There they found the young
clerk, but neither manager nor committee
men.

Most of the parties named as committee men
disappeared into shadowdom, for the simple
reason that they had never had any real existence.
Luckily for the ends of justice, the
chief mover in the affair was caught with a
large sum of money in his possession as he
was quietly preparing to quit the country for
some distant land, where he could enjoy the
fruits of his plunder.

Can a man touch pitch and not be defiled.
The self-willed young clerk found to his cost
that he could not. From his being found
actively engaged in his office, a warrant was

obtained for his apprehension that he might
be secured while the investigation was proceeding.
This proved a sore trial to the young
clerk. From the office to the police court,
from thence to the prison van, and from the
prison van to the house of detention, were but
so many short stages to the solitude of a cell,
where no friend would visit him, and where he
must be utterly helpless, while he could form
no idea even of the nature of the charge that
would be brought against him.

He had taken knowingly no part in gulling
the public. What he had done, he argued
with himself, he had done as an official under
the direction of his superior, and was he to
suffer because his superior was a great rogue ?
On one point only could he feel any satisfaction
as he ruminated in his cell on the strange
accident that had befallen him. On his entrance
into London he had dropped his own name,
and taken that of William Wright. That would
keep the knowledge of his mishap from his
country friends, and save him from being
obliged to listen to their pity or advice.

This poor consolation lasted but for a brief
space. On his next appearance in the police
court, the presiding magistrate, observing his
youth, and that he was undefended, having
heard his account of how he had become acquainted
with the concern, advised him to lose

no time in communicating with his friends, that
they might employ counsel to defend him.

Hesitatingly he thanked the magistrate, and
then added, in a more assured tone, —

I do not think I want counsel, and I have
no friends in London.'

1 But you have in the country, I suppose
said the magistrate. c Let them be written to

I would rather not write,' murmured Philip.

Where are they to be found ? ' asked the
magistrate.

Philip, to preserve his secret, was on the
point of giving a false address, when the
thought struck him that if he did so, inquiry
would be made, and he would be found to have
told a lie, he therefore remained silent.

The magistrate looked doubtingly upon him,
but he merely said, ' You do not appear to understand
the position in which you are placed,' and
then added, ( the account you have given of
yourself may be very true, but the affair with
which-you are proved to have been connected
is of too serious a character for you to expect
any one to believe you without further knowledge
of you. At the request of the prosecutor
you will be remanded for a week.'

During that week the youth's confidence
gradually merged into doubt. Then he asked
if he might see the police inspector who had
charge of the case, as he wished to make some

communication to him. The unpleasant conviction
had forced itself on his mind, that he
would be in the end compelled to say who he
was and where he came from, and therefore he
might as well do it at once.

The inspector shortly appeared, and having
warned him that if he chose to speak, he would
listen to him, but all he said he must write out
at length, and it might be used against him.

I am in a fix,' was the reply, 'and I don't
quite see how I can get out of it without your
knowing a little more about me than I care to
tell you.' He then, after a little hesitation, gave
him a correct account of himself, and where
his friends were to be found.

I hope you have told me the truth,' observed
the inspector, as he was about to leave
the cell. ' Of course, you will expect me to
communicate with your father.'

1 It cannot be helped, I suppose,' was the
reply.

The subject of the gold mine deception was
becoming a very interesting topic of conversation
with the public, from the fact that so many
persons had suffered in cases nearly as bad.
This had a stimulating effect on the police, and
determined the inspector not to lose a moment
in testing the truth of the story he had just
been listening to, and he was therefore soon ina
fast train on his way to Woodfield.

vol. 1. H

Nearly two months had elapsed since the wayward
youth took his departure for London, and
to the many anxious inquiries that had been
made respecting him, nothing but disappointment
had resulted. The father felt very deeply
the contumely with which he had been treated,,
and yet so fond and proud of his son was he,
that he was ever ready to turn a deaf ear to
any one who would, with unstudied words, censure
his conduct.

Even Sir Edward did not feel quite at his
ease when he heard of the youth's sudden disappearance.
He could not be sorry that he
had spoken plainly to him, but he felt that he
might have clothed his ideas in gentler words
than he had used.

After a little conversation with Sir Edward,
the inspector's mind was clear upon the subject
of the youth's departure from home, and the
reason of his assuming another name in London.
Within an hour the inspector was on his return
journey, with instructions from Sir Edward to
use his best endeavours to discover in what
manner the youth had been living while from
home, and the kind of company he had kept.

The poor father, upon hearing that his son
was in prison, would have instantly set off to
visit him, had he not been restrained by Sir
Edward, who, though fully aroused to the awkward
position in which the youth had placed

himself, was less excited as to its consequence.
1 I do not think,' he said, ' it would be right
for you to attempt to see your son at present.
You will do better to leave the matter in my
hands until we are fully acquainted with the
particulars of the case. I will write to my
solicitor, and beg him to take such steps as he
may deem necessary for the defence of your
son. If, as I trust, he is not criminally mixed
up with the affair, you can have no cause to
fear that he will suffer more than a few days'
imprisonment in the house of detention.'

The poor father was silenced, but not convinced,
that his duty did not call him to the
side of his son.

At his next appearance at the police court,
Philip was confronted with his late employer,
and the prosecutor being satisfied that he was
not one of the guilty party, but that he had
been a mere tool in their hands, placed him in
the witness-box to secure his evidence against
the real culprits.

It was not a case to be finished at one sitting
of the magistrates. They had doubtless the
principal in custody, but the police wanted
longer time for inquiry, as it was supposed
he did not stand alone.

Sir Edward, on the pressing entreaty of the
father, that he might be present at the next
examination, had consented not only to let him

go, but to go with him himself. Trembling
with excitement, the father on his first interview
with his son, forgetful of his past undutiful
conduct, was very eager to be bound for
him that he might at once be set at liberty, but
Sir Edward, fearing it might lead to further
unpleasantness between them, would not suffer
him.

He had satisfied himself, from the inspector's
report, that the youth had not been leading an
immoral life while in London, and therefore
secretly resolved to give him one more trial at
Woodfield. With this view, he offered himself
as security for the youth's appearance at anytime
he might be required.

In the course of time the principal of the
bubble company was committed to Newgate,
where he was tried and found guilty, which
freed the witnesses from any further attendance
on the case.

Meantime, Sir Edward had taken back to
Woodfield his runaway protege, who had become
sensible by his week in the house of detention
of the mistake he had made. It had proved a
severe blow to his pride, and caused him to feel
that he was under great obligations to his
patron, and must, for the present at least, appear
grateful.

Just before the trial, one of the under keepers
fell ill, and Sir Edward, thinking that plenty of

out-of-door exercise would assist in restoring
the youth to his senses, requested him to take
the vacant gun, and go down and assist the
head keeper. Like most young men, he was
fond of a gun, and therefore he had no scruples
about undertaking the duties required of him.
The sick man went on from week to week
declining, and then died.

The worrying business of the trial was then
over, and it became a question whether Philip
should continue for a year or two in his present
situation, or some office work at a distance besought
out for him. Thus stood the question,
when, as one of the under keepers, he was introduced
to the reader, coming out of the wood
to answer the children's questions about the
game, and the squirrel he had said perhaps he
would catch for them.

|;WO persons coming up a lane into
the main road at Woodfield halted
at the corner, and one said to the
other, ' We must part here. Our
walk has taken us longer than I expected it
would, and I was to meet Mr Smith at the
end of the village before I returned.'

Can I not go with you ? ' asked the gentleman
spoken to.

1 No ; it is getting late, and Sir Edward will
be expecting you home. If you go through the
churchyard, and run across the field into the
park, you will be there very soon.'

1 I don't like the way across the field now, it
is dark.'

Then go round the road ; it is not far that
way.'

The speakers were Mr Oliver Harewood and
the personal attendant of Sir Edward, George
Lea, the father of the youth Philip.

Without further comment they parted, Lea
went on his way to complete his mission, while
Oliver walked slowly on towards the church.
He could see its outline in the distance. It
was a very ancient structure, with a square
tower, long nave, with two side aisles, and a
lofty chancel.

A neat gravel path led through the yard, on
neither side of which were stones of all colours,
shapes and sizes, many of them bearing the
deep impress of age, and all showing that they
had been subjected to the destructive influence
of sun, wind and rain. Some, what with sinking
in the old earth and having the new heaped
around them, had almost disappeared beneath
the surface ; while others, having lost their
upright position, were bending over east, west,
north and south, with more variety of inclination
than our time will suffice for description.
Then there were solid blocks, which had been
raised some four or five, feet above the graves,
but even they were yielding to the hand of
time.

Oliver, on finding himself abreast of the
church, looked back to see if he would be
likely to have a companion up the dark road,
made gloomy by a row of trees on either side ;
but he could see no one, nor hear the sound of
even a distant footstep. * I think I will try
the field,' he murmured. ' I shall soon be insight

of the light in the hall. The path is wide
through the yard, and I will keep my eyes
close down upon it.' With trembling limbs he
passed in at the gate, and was nearly half way
through the fearful place when he was startled
by a groan which, to his excited imagination,
seemed to come from a new-made grave.

A cold shiver ran through his frame as he
involuntarily raised his eyes to heaven. At
that instant he was passing by one of the old
solid tombstones upon which, to his horror, he
saw a figure clothed in white sitting motionless.
For a second he stood transfixed to the spot,
and then seeing the right hand of the figure
was raised and stretched out, as if about to
seize him, he rushed forward and flew rather
than ran over the remaining part of the yard,
and then across the field and park to the house,
at the door of which he fell down exhausted.

How long he lay there insensible no one
knew. When his late companion reached the
spot, he found him just recovering consciousness,
and in a fearful state of excitement, as he
cried out, —

Oh dear ! why did you make me come home
alone ? '

1 Have you fallen down and hurt yourself ? ?
asked Lea.

I don't know. I think I have. How did
you get here ? '

1 I came across the field,' replied Lea.

And through the churchyard ? ' said Oliver,
shivering.

< Yes.'

And what did you see there ? '

1 Nothing more than usual'

1 Not on the high stone by the path ? '

1 No; why do you ask ? Have you been
frightened ? '

1 Yes ; but you will not tell my father.'

4 What did you see ? '

I cannot tell you now. Another time I
will. Let us get in doors. It is so dark
here, and I fancy I can see all sorts of
things.'

k Why, Oliver,' said his brother, who happened
to be crossing the hall as the two entered,
what is the matter with you ? You are looking
as pale as a ghost.'

Who said I saw a ghost ? ' cried Oliver.

1 No one that I am aware of,' rejoined Jesse,
laughing. ' I said you look as pale as a ghost,
and you do not look much better,' he added,
turning his attention to Lea. What have you
two been about ? '

1 I am not well,' said Oliver.

1 Shall I send for a doctor ? ' asked Jesse.

4 No,' replied Oliver, as he hurried upstairs
to his room.

1 Now, old fellow,' said Jesse to Lea, 'just

have the goodness to tell me what scene of
danger you have escaped from.'

As Lea hesitated to reply, Sir Edward, who
had heard the sound of voices in the hall,
called out from the library, —

1 Is that you, Oliver ? '

1 He has just gone to his room said Jesse.

I have a little reading to do with him
remarked Sir Edward, ' but the evening will
give us time for that. As you have just returned
from Downend, I will first hear your
report of our good friends there, and then we
can make arrangements for our day in the
woods tomorrow.'

Poor boy ! ' sighed Lea, as he retired unnoticed
from the hall, ' I am afraid, instead of
his growing stronger, as his father would have
him, he gets weaker and more timid every day.
What will be done here when he is master who
can say. I am afraid to think of the change
that must take place.'

With a look as despairing as his thoughts, he
disappeared by a door that led to the domestic
offices, and the hall was again left empty and
silent.

The stairs, with their carved balusters, up
which Oliver had gone, were of a massive
character, like the noble hall from which they
rose. Old family portraits, that had been
crowded out of the rooms in all parts of the

house, were hanging on the wall, and had
greeted him with their smiles and frowns as
they had done for ages past any one passing
up or down. Unsettled in their early positions,
they had moved from room to room until they
reached their present place of rest, ever smiling
or frowning, as they had done when the last
finishing touch was applied to them, undisturbed
by any passing event or discourtesy to which
they might have been subjected.

Apparently satisfied with themselves, they
were very interesting to look upon ; but how
-different were they from the reality, of which
they had never been but the faint shadow ?
Where were now the beautiful forms, with their
smiles and frowns, as they sat before the
painter ? Alas ! in the family vault, mouldering
away into dust. The canvas shows them at
their best ; but when in life was there never
aught but satisfaction on their countenances ?
Was there never a cloud on their arched brows,
or tears in those smiling eyes, as they moved
through the hall or passed up from floor to floor,
brooding over the changing nature and unreality
of all things around them ? Did anger
never distort those lovely lips, pale the tinted
cheeks, or speak daggers from those soft and
gentle eyes ?

Or the gentlemen, with flowing wigs and
clothed in ermine, judges of the land, that ere

now had restored the falsely accused to liberty
or sent the guilty to his fate. Did they, when
in life, always wear the same calm, unruffled
features ? Did they never, on these very stairs,
turn to curse their servants or chide with harsh
words their wives and children ? Or the warrior,
clothed cap-a-pie 1 , for battle. Did he always
wear that fierce, undaunted look ? Was there
never a quivering at his heart — never a stain
on his cheeks made by affection's tears ?

And the children, were they always so good
and kind as here represented ? Did they never
raise a hand in anger to strike a brother or a
sister ? or with scornful gesture treat a parent
with disrespect, ay, in this very hall in which
we are now standing ?

Poor, faint outlines of surface humanity, you
teach us a stern lesson, if we would take it to
our hearts. One step from the child of to-day,
and the little lithesome figure is changed into a
feeble old man or woman, and, as in childhood,
depending on others for support. That which
we see so fixed and settled on the canvas was
but the momentary impress of a passing shadow
of beings hurrying away to another world.

All unseen by his unconscious ancestors,
Oliver rushed by them, trembling with excitement,
and entering his room, was about to
bang to the door behind him, when he discovered
that he was not alone.

1 What are you doing here, Jasper?' he said
breathlessly.

1 Putting your things ready to dress for
dinner, sir.'

1 Oh yes, I see,' said Oliver ; ' that will do,
you can go now.'

Now Jasper was a smart little fellow, and
known amongst his fellow-servants as the tiger.
A son of a groom, he had been born on the
estate, and was well acquainted, partly by
hearsay and partly by observation, with most
of the events which, for the last few years, had
happened in or about the Hall. Sir Edward,
after a little training, had handed him over to
Oliver, chiefly to take charge of his pony, and
accompany him in his daily ride, which had
been prescribed for him to take without much
reference to wind or weather.

'Just a minute more, sir,' said Jasper, 'and
then I will be off like a ghost.'

1 Seen a ghost • • echoed Oliver. ■ Have you
seen one too ? '

1 Seen a ghost ! ' said Jasper ; ' no, I only
meant I'd vanish like one. But that's all
nothing. There's no such thine as a ghost,
though Mrs Brown says there is.'

1 Has she seen one ? ' asked Oliver.

One ! ' replied Jasper contemptuously.
Why, according to what I've heard, she has
seen a dozen at least'

1 26 Entranced with a Dream.

And what were they like ? ' asked oliver r
with a shudder.

Oh, some were great monsters, with their
heads reaching nearly up to the stars, and
some such little wee things that she could not
make them out without her spectacles. Which
waistcoat will you have, the blue or the white
one ?'

Did she say they were white asked Oliver,
his mind still full of his late fright.

All sorts of colours said Jasper ; ' but then,
you see, she's only an old woman, and doesn't
know any better.'

But we read of ghosts in the Bible said
Oliver.

1 Yes, so she says, but I told her they had all
been blown away since then. She said I was
an unbeliever, and she wouldn't have anything
more to say to me. Will you like to go and
have a talk with her about them ? '

No, I don't want to talk or think about
them.'

We can hardly see her to-morrow said
Jasper. ' You know you are to go out with
Sir Edward and Mr Jesse, and I don't know
who else, for a day's sport.'

Oh, dear said Oliver, turning restlessly
in his chair, ' I do wish they would not make
me go out with them. They tire me to death
And you don't like the guns ? '

Like them ? I hate them ! ' exclaimed
Oliver, ■ and never feel safe in the sight of one

I wish I had your chance, sir,' said Jasper.

1 If you mean to go trampling about through
wet grass and brambles, I wish you had, for I
don't like it at all. There now, you have stopped
here and kept me talking, and I wanted to rest

Did you have a long walk with Lea ? You
look as if it had been too much for you.'

It was not the walk. I wish you had been
with me, and then you would have seen — ' he
stopped abruptly.

Nothing very wonderful along that road, I
should think,' put in Jasper.

Oliver looked hesitatingly at him. He was
the only one in the house he felt safe in making
free with, and he wanted to tell him about his
late fright, but did not know how to begin. It
was curious to see how differently their minds
were constituted, and yet how well they seemed
to understand each other. Jasper, from a child,
had heard his young master spoken of as one
who was not so easily dealt with as most people.
Either that he thought but little, or that he
could not find words to express his thoughts.
He knew he was very weak, and that anything
happening out of the usual way made him very
uneasy.

That he was afraid of the ball when in the
cricket field, and that he could not, without

I much persuasion, be induced to mount any
horse higher than his own little pony. That
he was a poor shot, and that he would rather
any one else should load his gun than he do it
himself. That he did not like rowing on the
lake, and that nothing short of a positive command
from his father would induce him to take
off his clothes, and venture to walk in. As for
taking a header from the bank, that was quite
out of the question.

But the knowledge of all this, and the contempt
it might have produced in his young
and inexperienced mind, was held in check by
Oliver's unvarying kindness to him. Although
Oliver could make but little use of the knowledge
that had been driven into his brain, he
had sufficient sense to see that Jasper was
naturally a clever youth, and one capable of
strong affection for him.

Hence their free and easy manner with each
other, which, but for a little explanation, the
reader might deem the result of ignorant impudence
on the one side, and undue familiarity on
the other. It may appear questionable, but it
is no less a fact, that Jasper had more real
influence over the mind of Oliver, than his
father, brother, and sisters, all together.

Before the dressing was finished, the account
of the supposed ghost seen in the churchyard
had been confided to Jasper, with strict injunctions

that he was not to repeat it to any one,
in or out of the house.

Though feeling at his heart's core how really
timid he was, and that when the word coward
had been applied to him, he had not dared
resent it, still he shrank from the idea of letting
any one know it, or giving them an opportunity
of commenting on his actions.

With nervous, anxious steps, at the sound of
the second bell, he passed down by the fixed
gaze of the old family portraits, and entered
the drawing-room, where he found his father,
brother, sisters, and Miss Gordon from the
vicarage. His entrance was scarcely noticed
by any one, but Miss Gordon, who moved
towards him with an outstretched hand. As
they stood together, the dinner was announced,
when Sir Edward said, ' That is well, Oliver, I
see you have chosen your partner, and will take
the lady to the dining-room.'

The order, for such it was from his father,
was awkwardly obeyed. He felt that the eyes
of all present were fixed upon him, and that it
would be useless to attempt to hide his confusion.
Perhaps his own imagination had more
to do with the expression of their eyes than
they were aware of themselves. His character
was so well known to them all, that they were
not curious about his movement, and Miss
Gordon took the proffered arm, and led, rather
vol. 1. 1

than was led by her blushing companion into
the dining-room.

While the dinner was proceeding, Oliver felt
that the eyes of his father were upon him, and
although there was no unkind expression in
them, he shrank from their gaze, and looked
and acted more like a machine than a man possessed
of reason.

Fortunately for him the conversation, in consequence
of the presence of Miss Gordon, was
confined almost entirely to parish matters. She
and Miss Harewood were two young recruits, as
lady visitors to the sick and poor of the parish.

No sooner were they seen abroad than every
cottage door was open to them. There was no
curiosity on their parts to know how well the
poor were fed. No lifting of saucepan lids on
the fire to see how large a piece of pork was
boiling. No inquiry about pies or pudding, or
sniffing about to discover if there was any liquid
present stronger than water, or whether they
indulged in the luxury of sugar.

They visited the poor to speak words of
comfort to them, and with an open hand when
any were sick or afflicted with misfortune.
There was no ostentatious display of charity
on the one hand, and no pleading of poverty
on the other. No sudden ingress of the visitors,
and no hasty huddling out of sight things
not to be seen by them.

As their proceedings were in accordance
with the sentiments of Sir Edward, he spoke
encouragingly to them, and greatly commended
their work. It was a subject upon which
Oliver could venture to put in a few words,
and that he did but very sparingly. Jesse and
Grace were lively as usual, and not only able
to take part in the general conversation, but to
have a little extra talk upon indifferent subjects
between themselves.

When the ladies had retired to the drawing-room,
Sir Edward proceeded to complete the
arrangements for the morrow. Mr Gordon and
Mr Gill, his curate, had promised to be with
them for some part of the day. ' We will not
tie them to time, as I mean to make tomorrow
a red-letter day, and spend the greater part of it
in the open air. You have cleaned your gun ? l
he observed to Oliver.

1 The keeper cleaned it for me,' was the reply.

1 I wish,' said his father, ' you would bring it
home with you, and look to it yourself, or
if you are afraid to do so,' he added, a little
bitterly, ' let your youth Jasper do it for you.'

1 At what hour shall we start,' asked Jesse.

Will nine o'clock be too early for you.
Oliver?' inquired Sir Edward.

I will be ready at any time you please, sir.'

Let us say nine then, and perhaps you, Jesse,
will send a note to Mr Gordon to say we shall

be pleased to meet him at that hour, or any
other during the day that may be more convenient
to him.'

In the drawing-room, before they retired for
the night, Jesse took his brother aside, and
gently inquired if he was not well.

1 1 feel a little queer,' replied Oliver ; ' but
don't talk to me about it.'

Jesse looked inquiringly at him for a second
or two, and then said, —

1 By-the-bye, you have not told me what
had befallen you and Lea in your walk.'

4 I had been startled by a sheep or something
else,' answered Oliver evasively.

I wish you could get the better of your
disposition to be too easily alarmed,' observed
Jesse kindly.

He saw that his brother had been really
frightened. He could laugh heartily at some
of his foolish fancies, but even that was done
rather in kindness than contempt.

Oliver did not reply, but moved away.

Poor fellow ! ' thought Jesse. ■ I must
have it out with you another time.'

The next morning was bright and cool for
the season of the year, and in and about the
Hall all was life and bustle. Jasper was early
in Olivers room, troubled with no care further
than that which arose from his desire to have
his master ready a little before the time than

after, that there might be no shouting about the
place for him, and making him as unfit to hold
a gun in his hand as an elephant a telescope to
his eye. Looking admiringly at his master
when he was fully equipped for the sport of the
day, he said, —

4 There, now — you are quite up to the mark ;
and if you will just try to look a little bold and
brave, you will get on as well as any one.'

You think the clothes make the man ? ' said
Oliver.

I know they have a deal to do with it,' said
Jasper. ' I have seen many a fellow who would
not dare to fight with his own shadow looking
as brave as a lion when fitted out for work as
you are now.'

Is it right, do you think,' asked Oliver, ' to
attempt to disguise one's feelings — to look
brave, as you say, when you don't feel so ? '

To be sure it is, sir. What business has
any one with any part of us but our outsides ?
and if we are not quite comfortable within, why
should we tell everybody about it ? What are
our insides to other people, I should like to
know ? '

1 Of course nothing,' said Oliver, in a desponding
tone, ' as long as we can keep our
feeling under control, which you know 1 cannot
always do.'

'Try, sir — try.' cried Jasper. 'Stand up

like this, and look fierce and bold ; ' and taking
the gun in his hand, he threw it over his
shoulder, muzzle forward, and strutted round
the room, with a look of importance and self-sufficiency
that brought a smile to the pale face
of his master.

But every one would know that it was not
real.'

Ay ; but if they were not quite sure, sir ? '
said Jasper.

It is of no use what you say,' sighed Oliver.
1 I am a coward when there is any rough work
to be done ; I know I am, and I cannot
disguise it'

1 Oh,' said Jasper, ' you are ever so much
better than you were.'

1 You are more used to me,' replied Oliver,
and do not see me as you did at first.'

At first, sir ! ' cried Jasper. ' Why, I have
seen you ever since I was no higher than that.'
And he spread out his hand about two feet
from the floor.

You were too young to understand me then.'

Hark ! ' said Jasper ; ' there is Sir Edward
gone down to breakfast. Don't forget you are
to ask if I may go with you ; and you will see
when we get away alone if we don't bring down
some game to put in the bag I mean to carry
with me ; there will be a mistake somewhere, I
rather think.'

With gun in hand, thick boots, and leather
leggings, Oliver passed down again by his
ancestors, who evidently took a fixed interest
in human affairs, as they smiled upon him as
they did on the last evening as he hurried by
them to his room.

Jasper, feeling pretty certain that something
would occur to prevent him from taking part
in the sport if he did not bestir himself to
remind his master of his promise, had kept
back the powder-flask until the gentlemen were
all in the breakfast-room ; then going down to
Oliver, he presented it to him, as he said, —

1 Do you wish me to go with you, sir ? '

1 The idea of a sportsman going out without
his powder ! ' remarked Sir Edward. Then,
addressing Jasper, he said, ' Oh yes ; of course
he does ; and perhaps he would like you to
carry the powder.'

1 I can carry that myself,' said Oliver, with a
stifled sob, as he took the flask and dropped it
into his side pocket.

4 Let him come,' said Jesse ; ' he can mark
down the birds for us.'

I will take him, if my father does not
object'

Let him come, by all means,' said Sir
Edward ; ' he may be able to help his master
through the brambles.'

Jasper required nothing further ; he was off

in a moment to jump in to the clothes he had
put in order ready for the expedition, as soon
as the order for going should reach his ear.

The vicar had sent word to say that he and
his curate could not be at the Hall before
twelve o'clock, when Sir Edward decided that
they would first run round the outlying districts,
and go to the keeper's house to meet
their friends, and commence their real work
with a good luncheon, which he ordered to be
provided there.

At nine o'clock the head keeper with his
assistants were in attendance, with guns and
dogs ready for action.

Sir Edward, without seeming to pay any
special attention to Philip Lea, was a close
observer of his bearing. Only a few words
passed between them, and those merely on the
business in hand.

A slight fog had ushered in one of October's
finest days. Then the sun came out brilliantly,
and a gentle refreshing breeze swept over the
landscape, making the hedgerows and trees
through which it passed musical with its touch.
Flocks of birds, chattering rather than singing,
were busy with their harvest work in the unploughed
stubble or the freshly upturned earth
one for the scattered seed, another for worms,
slugs, and insects, guided by the unfailing spirit
of natural instinct.

Autumn was still in his youthful days, and
had done little more than give notice of his
presence. A few scattered leaves floated
through the air, but the eye was rather
charmed than distressed by the various hues
the trees had assumed, as the leaves danced
and glittered in heaven's bright light.

The attendants' bags did not rapidly fill
before the hour of luncheon. Jasper not being
reminded that his duties lay in the distance, to
mark down the birds, kept close to his master
all the morning, but unfortunately the ground
was too open for him to get much sport. Once
or twice, urged by his ' Now, now ! ' Oliver made
a random shot, but the only answer the desired
victim eave him was in a few scattered feathers
as it flew away unharmed.

Once, for a minute, a chance was presented
to Jasper, which he eagerly seized upon. They
were in a field at the corner of a wood. The
others had turned the corner, and were out of
sight, when a rabbit left its hole and made for
the hedge.

1 Look, look ! ' cried Jasper.

1 Where ? ' said Oliver. ' I can see nothing.'

With an impulse not to be resisted, Jasper
snatched the gun from his master's hand,
saying, ' You stop here,' and was in the act
of forcing his way through the hedge to meet
the rabbit on the other side, when bang went

the gun, which he was holding horizontally by
the barrel, tearing its way backward through
his hand, to his unbounded surprise and
annoyance.

Oliver sprang some distance from the
ground, and called out, with chattering teeth, —

1 Have you hit it ? '

1 No,' said Jasper, looking at his hand with a
rueful face, on which the sight of the gun had
left a long red streak. ' I am only glad I
didn't hit you he thought, as he picked up
the gun, and then took out his handkerchief to
wipe the blood from his hand.

How did you do that ?' asked Oliver.

Only a scratch,' said Jasper. ' But come
along, or we shall have some one back to see
what we've got.'

1 You were in too great a hurry,' remarked
Oliver.

A few steps brought them up to Smith, who
said, —

Did you kill, sir ? '

No ; but it was only a rabbit,' was the
reply.

Only a rabbit ! ' repeated Sir Edward. ' You
should have hit it had it been only a mouse.
The prize is for the correct eye and steady
hand, and not for the mere value of the game.'

1 Papa wants to make us crack shots,' said
Jesse ; ' but he knows there are few things



more difficult to do than to hit a rabbit when
it has but a few inches to run from one hole to
another.'

Papa wants you both,' observed Sir Edward,
4 to grow up strong men, vigorous in mind and
body.'

V twelve o'clock the vicar and his
curate joined the party, and within
a few minutes from that time the
lawn in front of the keeper's house,
where the table had been spread, was echoing
to the sounds of cheerful voices, and the
noisy clatter of knives and forks on plates and
dishes.

There was no want of attendance. The
servants from the hall were there, acting with
their usual care and propriety. To them the
scene only was changed, their duties remaining
the same. At a little distance from the principal
table another had been provided for the
keeper and his assistants, that no time might
be lost in waiting the one for the other.

Sir Edward had called it one of his red-letter
days, and as such he desired to make it to all
around him. He merely gave a general caution
that, as they were looking forward for plenty of

sport, they must remember it was necessary
they should go with steady hands and clear
eyes to their work.

When the business of the day recommenced,
although they had been joined by their two
friends, they did not long maintain the increase
in their number. They had barely gone a
quarter of a mile, after leaving the luncheon
table, when Jesse met with a mishap, that made
a prisoner of him for the remainder of the day.
He was walking by the side of the curate, when
he stepped upon a loose stone and fell on
his knees.

It was at first feared that he had broken his
leg, but on an examination being made by the
vicar, who had a slight knowledge of surgery,
the bone was pronounced to be uninjured, but
the ankle severely sprained. Wincing under the
pain, Jesse said to his father, ' Pray, do not trouble
about me. If some one will lend me a hand to
get back to Mrs Smith, I shall do very well.'

Had Sir Edward been alone with his sons,
he would doubtless at once have put an end to
their sport. After a slight pause, however, it
was continued. Painful as Jesse's injury might
prove, it was not likely to be attended by any
dangerous symptoms, and on his being helped
back to the house, and placed in an arm-chair,
with his injured foot resting on a stool, he declared
that there was little the matter with him,

and he would not have any one stop with him
a moment longer. As soon as he found himself
alone, although his fortitude did not desert him,
he could not disguise from the inmates of the
house that he was in great pain.

The elder children were gone to school, and
the youngest upstairs on the bed taking his
midday nap, so that Mrs Smith and Miss Montag
had nothing to take off their attention from
their suffering guest, besides looking out at the
servants as they were removing the remains of
the feast from the lawn.

I am afraid you are in great pain,' said Mrs
Smith.

It would be foolish to say I am not,' replied
Jesse ; ' but I suppose I must bear it patiently,
as our good vicar would say.'

1 Perhaps if he felt it himself,' said Mrs Smith,
1 the word patience would not have come so
handy to him. Don't you think, sir, if you had
some hot water, and bathed your ankle, it would
be easier ? '

Without waiting for an answer. Miss Montag,
who had been standing near, instantly poured
out some hot water into a bason, and placed it
by his side.

You are very kind,' said Jesse, ' but I am
afraid I must trouble you to help me. I appear
to have fallen into a state of helpless childhood
all at once.'

Mrs Smith was quite equal to the occasion.
With a gentle hand she drew off his sock, and
was soon busy bathing the ankle with the water,
which Lizzie constantly renewed, so that it
might be kept very warm. It will be remembered
that Jesse was not a stranger in the
keeper's house. From a child he and the inmates
had been on very friendly terms, and
since his breakdown from over study, he had
spent much of his time with Smith, and not
unfrequently in his house.

His temperament did not lead him to seek
the company of ladies. He was polite to them,
and easy and civil to females in a lower station,
but for any further care about them he had no
inclination. The idea of becoming a great African
traveller, and emulating the deeds of Livingstone,
Stanley, and others, had filled his heart
and brain to the exclusion of all tender, and, ashe
was wont to say, nonsensical emotions.
Now a change, little understood by himself, was
taking place in the secret recesses of his soul.

His father's desire that he should go to
Oxford and distinguish himself there, came
back to his mind unasked and undesired. ' If
you go to Africa,' a spirit seemed to whisper to
him, ' you may never come back again to meet
your friends ; but if you go to Oxford you can
be to and fro so frequently, that you will be, as
it were, always with them.' This spirit-whisper

might be a mere fancy of a weakened brain, or
it might arise from some inward emotion to
which he had hitherto been a stranger.

As the bathing went on the pain abated, and
Jesse grew talkative.

You have a very pleasant look-out here,' he
said ; ' but I should think you must at times
find your house very dull and lonely.'

You would not say so, sir, if the children
were at home,' said Mrs Smith.

But they are generally at school,' observed
Jesse,

For a good part of the day to be sure they
are,' replied Mrs Smith, ' but though they take
their noisy tongues with them, they leave a
large account of themselves behind.'

1 In what manner, may I ask ? '

In everything they have to do with was
the reply. ' Beside the work they make upstairs,
there are the breakfast things to clear
away in the morning, and their dinner to be
prepared for the middle of the day. Tea for
the evening, and washing before bedtime.
And then who but one with a family knows
how many dirty clothes are to be washed and
mended. Depend upon it, sir, a woman with
a young family, if she does her duty, is never
very lonely anywhere.'

And does it affect Miss Montag in the same
way ? '

1 I can't say it does,' replied Mrs Smith,
but she is here, and can answer for herself.'


1 I do not think we are ever very lonely
replied Lizzie.

A little sometimes, eh ? ' said Jesse. Then
he added, ' There, that will do, I think you
have almost worked a cure, and now if you
will help me, I will have my sock on again,
and try if I can stand.'

1 Better keep just where you are, sir,' said
Mrs Smith, ' till the carriage comes for you.'

Jesse reluctantly complied with her advice.
He was in less pain, and he was growing weary
of his present position. He wished to be up
and moving about. It might be that he was
uneasy on account of the firing he heard in the
distance, and was not able to join in the sport.
4 By-the-bye,' he said, after some minutes'
silence, * how does your husband like his new
assistant ? '

Pretty well, I think,' replied Mrs Smith.

1 Only pretty well ! ' repeated Jesse.

1 Well, you see, sir, my husband is a straightforward,
plain-dealing man, and speaks his mind
very freely when he sees anyone not so particular
about his work as he might be.'

And that is not pleasant to the person spoken
to ? ' said Jesse inquiringly.

1 But you see, sir, Philip Lea has only taken

VOL. I. K

to this sort of work very lately, and perhaps he
has rather a trying time of it with some of the
others.'

On account of his work in London, I suppose
? ' said Jesse.

Yes, but not altogether that ; I think, sir,
'tis his manner.'

1 Talks too much of what he has seen ? '
suggested Jesse.

No, he doesn't talk much ; but he moves
about as if he was master over all the others.
But there, he is very civil to me, and I don't
want to say anything against him ; but I can't
help thinking he is not quite right in his head,
because if he knows so much as he seems to
think he does, why didn't he know a rogue
from an honest man when he was in London ? '

I suppose to the eye they are much alike,'
said Jesse.

1 Well, sir, I must say I wish — no, I won't
say that ; only, I am sorry he ever came so
near us.'

While this conversation was taking place,
Miss Montag was superintending the maidservant
in her work in the kitchen. When
Mrs Smith, feeling that she was talking a little
more freely than her husband would approve of
if he knew it, adroitly brought it to a close
by saying that she must go upstairs, as she
thought her boy was awake.

1 Before you go said Jesse, ' I wish you
Avould help me to get out to the bench in
front of the house. It is quite warm, and the
air will be pleasant.'

Better stop where you are reiterated Mrs
Smith ; seeing, however, that he was making
an attempt without her assistance, she prepared
to help him.

4 Oh dear ! ' cried Jesse ; ' what a fool I am to
make such a fuss about a mere sprain.'

The so-called bench was rather a long ,
which had been made by one of the
under keepers out of the roots and stripped
limbs of some oak trees that had flourished
near the spot. Safely accomplishing his little
journey from the chair within to the bench or
chair without, Jesse leaned back upon a pillow
Miss Montag had brought out, and tried to
appear quite at his ease.

4 Now, if I had a newspaper,' he said, 4 I
could be quite jolly.'

'Well, how funny!' said Mrs Smith; ' here
is one that has just come from Newport.'

Capital ! ' said Jesse ; ' that will do.' But
he soon found that he could not freely handle
it. The movement of his arms communicated
itself to the injured foot, and gave him, as Mrs
Smith thought, unnecessary pain.

1 There now,' she said ; ' you just sit quite
still, and let Lizzie read the paper to you.'

I If she will be good enough to do so I shall
be greatly obliged,' rejoined Jesse, * as I find
the slightest movement gives me, coward that
I am to say so, great pain.'

Lizzie, in her usual quiet, undemonstrative
way, placed a chair by his side, and taking the
paper from his hand, sat down to read, while
Mrs Smith hurried away, alarmed by certain
sounds of a movement above, which she had
good reason to fear might end in a little body
tumbling unceremoniously down the stairs.

I I want to hear something,' said Jesse, ' that
will take my attention off from this troublesome
ankle of mine. A murder, shipwreck, earthquake,
a Fenian conspiracy, or anything else
that will rouse a fellow up and keep his thoughts
from dwelling on his own misfortune.'

1 am glad to say I do not see anything about
murder,' replied Lizzie ; ' but here is something
of a man who leaped off from a suspension
bridge, intending to go into the clear, flowing
river, instead of which he went into the mud,
and was dragged out again little the worse for his
jump, excepting the damage done to his clothes.'

Poor fool,' said Jesse, ' to spoil his clothes
in that way. Anything more about him ? '

1 No ; but here is a long account of the necessity
of docking the river.'

Oh, that is an old story,' said Jesse ; ' please
pass it over.'

Then,' said Lizzie, ' there is a column about
the rival docks.'

Yes ; I have heard of them too, and the
ill-natured things the rivals have said of each
other to amuse the country at large. Please
pass them over also, till they can meet like
neighbours, and settle their differences in a
friendly way.'

Here is something about the meeting of the
members of the Beaufort hunt.'

Ah ! ' said Jesse, ' that is a little more to the
purpose. The Duke of Beaufort is an English
nobleman one likes to think and talk about.
A real lover of country sports, to whom the cry
of the hounds is pure, unalloyed music.'

From that the reading went on to other subjects,
to the great satisfaction of Jesse, who
was not altogether pleased when Airs Smith
returned with her baby boy. Xor was the
little fellow pleased with the reception he met
with. He could not understand why the gentleman
did not jump up and have his usual bit of
fun with him.

1 Mr Jesse has hurt his foot,' said his mother.

1 Georgie, get up and sit with him then.'

No, you must stop with me and be quiet.'

Jesse, who had of late taken great notice of
the child, did not appear to have any desire for
his company now. It might be that he was
afraid he would roll over on his ankle, but so

or not, Mrs Smith took effectual means to save
him from being annoyed by calling to the maid
to bring her some crumbs of bread that the
child might scatter to the birds that were hopping
about on the grass at a little distance from
them.

An hour earlier than they were expected the
sportsmen returned. Sir Edward had not been
able to disguise his anxiety about Jesse, which
Mr Gordon perceiving, proposed, after they
had spent two or three hours in the preserves,
to finish for the day by working their way
homeward. This they accordingly did, and
came in sight of the keeper's house, where the
little group before it presented the materials fora
picture that would have required a skilful
hand to transfer to canvas.

In the background were the majestic elms,
covered with their autumn tinted leaves. Then
the house, in its clothing of the rose, clematis,
and jasmine, with here and there a blossom
peeping out between the shining leaves. Next
the rustic garden-chair on which Jesse reclined,
having at his back a cushion, and for his head
to rest upon a snow-white pillow, while a crimson
knitted shawl covered his legs and feet.

By his side sat Miss Montag, the newspaper
having just fallen from her hand as she was
answering an interesting question that had
arisen from her reading. Mrs Smith, standing

near them, looking admiringly on her child ashe
was toddling forward, with his hands full of
crumbs thrust out before him ready to scatter
to the birds which were approaching rather
than retiring from him. The maid who had
brought out the crumbs, turning, as she was
about to re-enter the house, to have one more
look at the dear little angel, — the title she had
bestowed upon the child.

What would have been the feeling of the
sportsmen had they come suddenly upon the
scene at a few yards' distance, may be doubtful.
There might have been seen on the face of
more than one of them an expression of dissatisfaction.
They were, however, at too great
a distance to take in more than a general view
of the group. By the time of their near approach,
the condition of things had changed.
The elder children had returned from school,
and the careful mother having taken up the
little one in her arms, had returned with them
to the house, followed almost immediately by
the newspaper reader.

1 Well, Jesse, my boy,' said Sir Edward,
1 how is it with you by this time ? Glad to see
you out in the bracing air.'

'A little cranky still, you see,' replied Jesse;
1 but Mrs Smith has proved a capital nurse,
and I shall soon be all right again. Have you
had good sport ? '

1 Nothing to complain of,' said Sir Edward ;
1 but I want Mr Gordon to have another look
at your ankle.'

The look was taken, and the system Mrs
Smith had adopted having been approved, a
favourable opinion was, without hesitation, pronounced
by the vicar.

Well said Jesse to his brother, ' and how
many brace of pheasants have fallen to your
gun, Oliver ? '

1 Two replied Oliver, with a slight cough.
Glad to hear it,' said Jesse ; ' an improvement
on your last day's work.'

1 We have been a little steadier to-day than
usual,' said Sir Edward, glancing at Oliver.

1 And I have had some good shots,' thought
Jasper.

I ordered the carriage to meet us at four
o'clock,' remarked Sir Edward, ' and I see weare
nearly an hour before our time. Will someone
run and tell the coachman to come here
directly. You must not attempt to walk, Jesse.'
As he spoke he looked at Philip Lea ; but the
youth did not appear to think he was spoken
to, and Jasper gave him no time to make the
discovery, as he ran off, saying, as he went, ' I
will have the carriage here in a few minutes,
Sir Edward.'

While the gentlemen were talking together,
Philip Lea whispered something into the ear

of Smith, and then made for the side door of
the house. The day had passed in anything
but a pleasant way with him. There was
always something to remind him of his dependent
position. He had been reasoning with
himself the whole day in a very unreasonable
manner.

4 Had I broken both my legs,' he thought,
4 there would not have been the same fuss
about me as there is with Jesse for a mere
sprained ankle. Of course there would not.
And why ? Am I not as good as he is ? And
what makes a man worthy of notice but his
own ability.

4 Should I be different to what I am if I had
come into the world as the son of a duke ? I
am as much a gentleman as any of them, and
why should I not be treated as one ? Then
there is that whipper-snapper Jasper putting
himself forward at every turn and on a level
with me, with his chattering tongue and stupid
jests.

4 Sir Edward, too, why should he be always
watching me with a suspicious eye ? If his
son Jesse had met with the misfortune I did in
London, would he have been looked upon as
something little short of a criminal ? Not he.
He would have been pitied. And why ? Because
he deserved it more than I did? No;
but simply because he happened to be the son

of a baronet, while I am — Well, no matter.
I will be up with them some day, sooner or
later, or my name is not Philip. Why, there
has not been one of the common markers out
to-day, considering my education, but has been
treated with more respect than I have met
with. What have I had to do ? Keep with
Smith and the gentlemen ? No ; but to be
ordered here and there as a mere scout to
them.'

Such and such like thoughts had been running
riot through his brain during the day,
filling him with a desperate resolve that, if
the same kind of treatment was continued only
a day or two longer, he would once more try
his fortune at a distance from Woodfield, and
never more come back again until he could,
with money in his pocket, look the best of
them in the face, and say, 'I am as good as
you.'

On their return he was the first to perceive
the group in front of the house, and what from
the distance he could not clearly see, his fancy
brought before him in the brightest colours.
Jesse was being nursed and waited on by Miss
M on tag as no one had ever been before. It
was a shame. Mrs Smith might do it if she
chose; but Miss Montag had no business to be
hanging about over him. ' Ah ! I see it now
he muttered ; ' that is the reason she treats me

d;>

so coolly. 0{ course it is. He may say or do
what he pleases ; I must stand off until he has
had his say. Will I V That remains to be
seen.

On entering his portion of the house, he
could scarcely restrain himself from an outburst
of temper before he closed the door. Thus
far the evil spirit within him had only made its
presence known by his sullen looks and wicked
thoughts. But now, when he found himself
alone, all restraint was cast off, and he threw
himself on his bed, writhing in an agony of
vexation and disappointment.

Jasper having returned with the carriage,
Jesse was carefully placed in it and driven
gently to the hall ; and the keeper's house, after
the events of the day, resumed its ordinary
character.

Philip remained in his room till one of the
children was sent to tell him tea was ready.
He only used his part of the house as a bedroom.
When Sir Edward proposed that he
should take the sick man's place, it was on the
understanding that his meals should be provided
for him under the superintendence of Mrs
Smith, which ended in his being, during the
day, received into the house as one of the
family.

For a week after commencing his duties all
went pleasantly enough ; but a change soon

came over the state of affairs. Philip's high
opinion of himself had only been scotched, not
killed. No sooner was his London trouble
over than his old self reappeared, much at first
to the amusement of his fellow under keepers,
who laughed at his pretension to superior knowledge
of the instincts and habits of the denizen
of the woods and fields.

They were not called upon for anything out
of the common way in the performance of their
duty. Day and night it was a very simple
affair with them, and, perchance, they as much
underrated science as Philip was ignorantly
fond of boasting of it. Smith soon found it
necessary to avoid disputing with him, and
only to speak on business when he had an
order to give or reproof to administer respecting
some unperformed duty on his part, or his
taking upon himself to define the duty of
others.

His determination was taken to quit the
place as soon as he discovered the estimation
in which he was held by those around him, but
there were two or three things that were likely to
interfere with his immediate departure. In his
short experience of London life, he had learnt
that to go there without money would not at
all answer his purpose.

1 It will be rather a derogatory act,' he
thought ; ' but I must get some money from my

father or grandfather. Gold is gold, whether
in the hands of a lord or his serving man. It
is not my business to inquire through what
hands it passes, until it drops into mine. If my
noble progenitors will let me have a trifle, it
will be some little recompense for their having
brought me into the world in the grovelling
position in which I find myself

While this matter was beincr agitated in his
mind, another hindrance insidiously placed
itself in his way. He felt his dislike to a
country life become less urgent than it had
been. The keeper's house was very pleasantly
situated, and in time he would of course behead
keeper, and then he could go on looking
upward with a wife already chosen until he
would get the whole management of the estate
in his own hands.

At this point he had arrived a week previous
to the day of the shooting party, and only
wanted a favourable opportunity of speaking to
a certain person, to know if she would prefer
settling down here with him for life, or go with
him as his wife to London, and try their fortunes
there.

Immediately after the departure of Sir
Edward and his friends, Miss Montag left the
house in answer to an invitation she had received
to take tea at a neighbouring farm-house,
so that when Philip followed the boy, he found

her chair vacant. After his outburst of passion
had spent itself in vain complaints, he resolved
that he would speak to Miss Montag in the
course of the evening, and learn how far she
was disposed to enter into his feelings in the
object he had in view.

He was a little disconcerted when he saw
her empty chair, and more so as the business of
the meal progressed, and she did not make her
appearance. After a time he discovered the
cause of her absence from one of the children,
without appearing very much interested in the
matter, and then asked Smith if he had any
business in hand for the evening.

I think we must be on the alert to-night,'
was the reply. ' I believe there are two or
three strangers in the neighbourhood, and if
they get a notion that we have had a hard day's
work, they may calculate on our feeling sleepy,
and leave the preserves to take care of themselves.
I have told the others to be here at
ten o'clock, when we will settle what is to be
done.'

I will be with you at that time,' said Philip,
as he took his hat and left the room.

The house to which Miss Montag had been
invited was but at a little distance, and, although
to a stranger, the road from one house to the
other might seem frightfully lonely to the inhabitants
of the place, everything about it had

long been so familiar to them, that the rocks
and trees by its side which would have caused
a shiver to another as he passed, were looked
upon as pleasant homely objects.

In and about that road Philip spent two long
weary hours. He did not wish to be seen by
any one besides the person he there hoped to
meet, and therefore managed to place himself
where he could see without being seen. After
much impatient waiting, he heard footsteps approaching,
and then recognised the voice of
the lady he wished to meet. Miss Montag was
returning home, accompanied by two young
friends from the house where she had spent the
evening.

He heard one of her companions say, —

1 You have but a very little distance now to
go, so I think we will leave you here and
run home again.'

1 I am sorry you have come so far,' replied
Lizzie, as they shook hands, and with a friendly
<£ood-night parted.

As soon as she was fairly alone, Philip, as if
by accident, met her.

1 Is that you, Miss Montag ?' he said; ' I heard
where you were gone out to tea, and as I had
nothing in particular to do, I thought I would
come and meet you ; but you see I have not
got very far from home.'

1 I am very glad you have not,' thought Lizzie;

but she merely said, ' Thank you ; I have had
company so far, and now I will do as they have
done, run home as fast as I can.'

'Why are you in such a hurry ? ' asked Philip,
as he placed himself before her to stop her
progress.

It is getting late,' replied Lizzie, * and I maybe
wanted with the children.'

4 They went to bed long ago,' said Philip. ' I
saw the light put out in their room.'

Then you have not just come from the
house ? '

4 No,' replied Philip, 4 I have been out here
for two hours for the purpose of speaking to
you alone.'

■ Then you have been rather unlucky,' said a
voice almost in his ear.

Philip, startled at being thus suddenly accosted,
turned angrily to the speaker, when
Lizzie, finding the road clear, made off with
her utmost speed.

4 What in the devil's name are you doing
here, Dixon?' cried Philip, in a* towering
rage.

Nothing just at present,' was the reply.

You were ordered for ten o'clock,' said
Philip, 4 and it is not yet nine.'

4 Nearly nine and a half, or I am mistaken,'
said Dixon ; ' and, besides that, maybe I amon
a like game as yourself.'

1 Why did you interfere with me, then, with
your cursed gabble ? ' cried Philip.

1 Why replied Dixon, ' didn't I hear you say
you waited to see the lady alone, and you
wouldn't have me stand by and hear your love-making,
would you ? '

Who told you what my talking would be
about ? Get out of the way, fool, or I will
knock you down.'

1 Will you, though ? ' said Dixon ; ' you seem
to forget that two can play at that game ; but
I don't want to remind you of it, only just sofar
as to advise you to keep a civil tongue in
your head, and give up trying to put off your
swagger upon your fellows here, because, you
see, they will not have it, Master Philip.'

1 Let me pass, I say,' cried Philip.

1 Why don't you knock me down ? ' retorted
Dixon.

1 I don't want to quarrel with a fool said
Philip.

1 Then let the wise man and the fool jog on
together,' said Dixon. ' Only let us be just
civil to each other, to prevent mistakes, or the
wise man or the fool, or both of them mayhap,
will find themselves in the ditch.'

Philip clutched his gun tightly in both his
hands ; but he did not strike. Sounds of voices

VOL. I. L

Entranced with a Dream.

floated on the air, which told him that two or
more of the under keepers were very near, if
they had not been present, the whole time he
had been there with Dixon.

To the music of horse-laughter from his
tormentors, he, with a muttered curse, rushed
away towards the house.

;then Sir Edward Harewood, then
plain Edward, was summoned to
Dover, some twenty years since, he
found his uncle, Sir Henry, in charge
of an old servant who had lived with him for
many years, and who, it seemed, had obtained
considerable influence over him. As days
passed on, and the sick man's end drew near,
he commended his servant very strongly to his
nephew, remarking that, although he had not
forgotten him in his will, it was his wish that
his services should be continued in the family.
1 My son was greatly attached to him,' he added,
and I think you will be, when I am gone.'

The wish was readily complied with, and the
old servant would have felt his change of masters
very little, had it not been for his increasing
age, which, on Sir Edward's disappointment
and determination to travel, rendered him unfit

to accompany him. With a gentleman like the
late baronet, who was the elder of the two,
crossing rivers or seas, or climbing mountains,
was all very well. Every assistance that money
could command was always present to make
the journey less toilsome ; nothing, at the same
time, behoof done without the most cool and
deliberate consideration.

With Sir Edward everything might be supposed
to run in another groove. Journeys
would be undertaken at a minute's notice, with
little thought of the difficulties to be met with
by the way, and no preparation made to encounter
them. The raoqnof course of the
flooded river or the tempest-tossed waves of
the sea would not hold him in check. In his
present mood he would go on board any vessel,
when the most venturous captain would hesitate
about leaving the harbour.

As for climbing mountains, he would be
ready to take the most dangerous tracks, and,
perchance, at times even without a guide.
Thinking of that, the old servant was fain to
confess that his limbs were far too stiff to follow
such a leader.

It fortunately happened, however, that he
had a son who could relieve him of his office,
and who, with Sir Edward's consent, very

readily did so. When they left home, the old
man, with a housekeeper and some under servants,
remained in charge of the Hall. On Sir
Edward's return with his young wife, the old
servant found himself sufficiently strong to
undertake the duties of butler, or, as he was
pleased to call it, house-steward, — his son retaining
his position of personal attendant on
his master.

About two years after the return from the
Continent, an incident occurred in the park
which, for a while, created a great sensation by
the employment it gave to the restless tongue
of gossip. At the close of an autumnal day,
when the falling shades of evening were rendering
everything at a few yards' distance shapeless
or distorted, a weary, way-worn young
woman, with two children, crept in unobserved
through the park-gate. The children, a boy
and a girl, little more than infants, were, like
herself, very ill clad. She carried the girl in
her arms ; while the boy, holding on by her
dress, was dragging his feet along on the
ground as if each step must be its last.

As they approached the house they were met
by Lea, Sir Edward's personal attendant. At
another time he might have accosted the woman
rudely, and demanded why, at that unseasonable

hour, she was in the park ; but now he
was returning from a visit to his motherless
son Philip, and he was moved with compassion
as he looked upon the sad state of the
poor woman and her children.

Instead of replying to his inquiry, if she
knew there was no public path through the
park, she let the child slip from her arms, and
before he could stretch out his hand to save
her, fell herself to the ground. He hesitated
for a moment what to do, when, feeling his own
helplessness to render assistance, he hurried off
to the Hall, with the groans of the mother and
the wailing of the children ringing in his ears.

The needed assistance was quickly at hand ;
but it came too late to be of any service to the
poor woman. The fainting fit from which she
was at first thought to be suffering was pronounced
by the doctor shortly afterwards to bethe
last fit she could ever have on earth. Tidings
of the sad affair were not long in reaching
Sir Edward and his lady, and arousing their
Christian sympathy.

The body of the poor woman was placed in
an empty boathouse until the necessary inquest
could be held upon it ; while the children,
at the request of Lady Harewood, were carried
into the housekeeper's room, to be taken care

of until some further arrangement could be
made for their nursing.

It may not appear a very Christian speech,'
observed Sir Edward, who had gone with his
wife to see the children, ■ but I must say that
I think it would save much excitement and
trouble if they were at once taken to the
union.'

1 Poor little dears,' said the lady, ' not tonight.
If one of the servants will take charge
of them until the morning, I shall feel greatly
obliged.'

1 I will see to that, my lady,' said the housekeeper.


Well, as you please,' said Sir Edward ;
1 still, I think, when a disagreeable duty is to be
performed, it is better to have it out of hand
as quickly as possible. The poor things must
go to the union sooner or later, unless someone
comes forward to claim them.'

We don't know who they are, Sir Edward,'
observed the housekeeper ; ' they may have
friends at no great distance.'

1 You will see they are properly cared for
to-night,' said Lady Harewood ; ' tomorrow
may bring us the knowledge of who they are
and where they came from.'

When the morrow came it proved as ignorant

as the previous evening. Nothing about
the body rendered the slightest assistance. A
few pence only were found in a pocket ; but no
letter or mark on the clothes which might lead
to her identification, and the children were too
young to show more of their history than by
their sobbing and crying, might lead one to
suppose that they had lost their mother or someone
very nearly related to them.

Every one about the place who chose was
permitted to view the body. Amongst those
who took advantage of the offer was the old
steward. He came, accompanied by his son,
and whether it arose from his age or a very
tender heart, when he had taken one look at
the worn face of the corpse, he turned away
and left the place.

The grave soon swallowed up its victim, but
the children were saved from the union by the
exertions of Lady Hare wood, assisted by the
old steward.

1 1 do not see why you should be so earnest
about them ; but I cannot act in opposition
to such a powerful advocate,' observed Sir
Edward.

After careful inquiry had been made to find
them suitable homes, the girl was committed to
the care of the wife of the then head keeper and

the boy to that of an old nurse, near the parish
church, Lady Harewood holding herself responsible
for all necessary expenses ; and thereat
the keeper's house, in the person of Lizzie
Montag, we have seen the orphan girl so
strangely brought upon the scene, and withal
so happily provided for. It was a Monday
when the children were found, and as their
real names could not be ascertained, they were
named Edmund and Lizzie Montag by the
request of Lady Harewood.

It was some time after the accident to his
ankle before Jesse was fairly on his legs again.
In the interval the days had dragged wearily
on, and his enforced quiet tried his patience
severely. ' I am well,' he would exclaim ;
perfectly well, but this abominable ankle ties
me to my chair or a seat in the carriage as
securely as the handcuffs of a prisoner tie his
hands together. But for that, I feel I could
walk, run, jump, or ride as well as ever.'

Complaints, however, availed nothing. Time
and rest alone could help him, and which at
length they did to his great satisfaction. Then
he had a question he wished to put to Smith
about his gun. He would not send for him to
come to the Hall, as it might interfere with
some business he had in hand. No, he would

go down to his house, and take his chance of
seeing him ; and to the house he went, and
saw not only Smith, but one who had been
much in his thoughts during his confinement
at home.

That his meeting with Miss Mori tag was
something more than friendly, impressed itself
on the mind of Mrs Smith through her
observant eyes and ears, and she began to
reason with herself as to what it might portend.
She looked upon Lizzie as one placed under
her motherly care, and that she would be
answerable in a great measure for any wrong
that might happen to her. And might there
not be some fear that she would look with
too gentle an eye upon Master Jesse, and,
without being aware of it, involve herself in
difficulties which she would not dream of until
they had enveloped her in their folds.

When love finds a place in her heart it must
be for a worthy object ; and why,' thought careful
Mrs Smith, ' may not her love on such terms
be fixed on Mr Jesse Hare wood ? Was he not
young, handsome, and worthy of her love ? Yes,'
thought Mrs Smith ; ' but then would she hold
any correspondence with him unless marriage
was in view ? And how could he, the son of a
baronet, marry a girl like her ? What would his

father say to such an union ? Why, he would
stop it if he could ; and if he could not, he
would be angry with them for ever

'Suppose I talk to Smith about it. No; I
must not do that. He says he can't keep a
secret, and so I will trust him with none of
mine. But I will just do this, for I know
Philip is in love with her ; I will be as civil as
I can to him, and try to make Lizzie look
kindly upon him.' The good lady was taking
a heavy burden upon her shoulders, but she
was strong, and, as she thought, able to bear it.

And so it happened that while the young
people were indulging the fancies natural to
their age and inexperience, Mrs Smith was, in
as far as she was able, endeavouring to control
their destinies by throwing every opposing
incident she could in the way of the gentleman
she liked, and on the other hand favouring
the one she disliked.

At the Hall events were pursuing the even
tenor of their way. Sir Edward was fully
occupied with his voluntary duties during the
day. In the evening he continued his practice
of having Oliver alone with him for an hour
or two in the library, a task which, though
perseveringly persisted in, it must be confessed,
became day by day more wearisome. The

truth was making itself but too apparent. The
brain of Oliver was not equal to the work he
had put upon it.

It was a painful thought that his first-born
child — the heir to the family honours — and
upon whom he had expended so much care
and money, should be so little benefited by all
that had been done for him. Still he was not
in absolute despair for the character of his
house. Jesse, his second son, he felt assured,
would be able to hold his own in whatever state
fortune might place him, and do honour to the
family name.

Very different in tone and manner was the
conversation he held with each of them. In
the one it was to arouse his dormant faculties,
and in the other to moderate and control them.
Since Jesse's recovery from the serious effects
of his sprained ankle, he had become more than
ever devoted to his gun and the sport it afforded
him. The greater part of the day he spent in
the open air, and he was rapidly recovering
from the shock to his system, brought on by
his over exertion in his study of medicine.

Sir Edward was pleased to observe that, as
Jesse's health was restored, his conversation
about the state of Africa grew less pointed, and
had but a slight reference to his own personal

feelings or desire to go forth, as he had been
wont to say, to conquer difficulties in the cause
of civilisation. Wishing to learn if any real
change had taken place in the mind of his
son on the subject, he asked him one evening,
in an apparently casual manner when they
were sitting together, if he had any idea when
he would be able to resume his study of
medicine.

1 My first attempt with them,' replied Jesse,
1 so completely knocked me over, that I believe
I am growing a little shy of making a second.
But I suppose I must soon get into harness
again, and have another tug to get up the hill.'

1 You started before a little too eagerly,' said
his father. 'When you recommence you must
remember you have a hill before you, and
which you will not be able to mount by a single
spring.'

1 I confess I feel a little shy of it altogether,'
said Jesse.

1 But you must not go out until you have
somewhat made yourself acquainted with the
science. That, you know, is a settled thing
between us.'

Quite so,' said Jesse ; ' and will you hold
me to my agreement ? '

I should say decidedly so replied Sir

Edward if I did not feel you were too much
in earnest to wish to escape from it'

1 seem to be at a standstill, as we used
to say at school when we had two courses open
to us, and did not know which to take.'

1 Will a word from me help you to decide ? '

It will more than help me said Jesse.

1 Then I would advise you to fall back upon
my old plan, and prepare yourself for two or
three years at Oxford before you finally decide
on the occupation of your life.'

I think I cannot do better than accept your
advice said Jesse, * and leave the African
business for the present to cooler and older
heads than mine

1 You have healed a sore place in my heart,
Jesse rejoined the gratified father, ' for I should
have parted with you on your African mission
with unspeakable pain.'

You do not wish, I am sure said Jesse, ' to
make me self-conceited ; still, such kind expressions
on your part have, I am afraid, a leading
in that direction.'

I should have felt quite alone without you
said Sir Edward, with a sigh.

■ But you would not have been alone rejoined

Jesse, ' you would still have had Oliver with you

True, I should have had Oliver, poor fellow

was the reply ; ' but how could he supply your
place with his irresolution on the commonest
incidents of life ? '

1 I am afraid you are a little too despairing
about Oliver observed Jesse.

1 I have endeavoured to be hopeful,' replied
his father, ' and laboured in accordance with my
hope, but it appears to have been all to no purpose,
and I am afraid I must now be resigned
*o have him looked upon as little better than
an idiot.'

I should like to see the man who would
speak of him as one,' said Jesse, all ablaze with
indignation.

But if he spoke truly,' said Sir Edward, ' I
do not see how you could fairly quarrel with him.'

1 But he would not speak truly,' rejoined
Jesse, ' and I trust you will not be displeased
when I say I cannot quite agree with you
respecting Oliver. I do think you are sometimes
a little hard upon him. Of course, you
must know much better than I do how he
should be treated. But I have observed that
he appears, from some cause or other, to
lose all confidence in himself when you speak
to him. I have seen him tremble at the sound
of your voice, when I knew your harshest
thought of him was full of kindness.'

I have been very desirous replied Sir
Edward, ' that he should worthily occupy his
natural position in the world. If my mind has
been too strongly influenced by my desire, and
you can convince me of the fact, I shall hold
myself very blameworthy in many things that
I have done in connection with his education.'

Pray,' said Jesse, ' do not think that I have
any desire to charge you with wrong-doing. I
only want you to know that I am afraid there
has been a mutual misunderstanding with each
other. That you have perhaps expected more
from Oliver than nature has given him the
power of displaying, while he, not understanding
the reasons of your words and actions, has felt
them bear harshly upon him. You will pardon
me, I trust, for speaking thus plainly : I had no
intention of doing so when our conversation
began.

I have nothing to pardon,' said Sir Edward
in, for him, a strangely desponding tone. ' You
have done well to direct my attention to the
point of view from which you see your brother.
God knows how unceasingly I have watched
over him, and endeavoured to gain his confidence,
and to strengthen his mind. If I have
acted too much on my own conviction of the
method to be pursued without a due regard for

his natural abilities, there may be still time forme
to adopt with advantage another course.

1 I am afraid you are treating the matter
too seriously,' said Jesse.

That I cannot do,' rejoined Sir Edward,
1 with the view I take of it. But we will not
argue it further at present.'

That evening a more than usually genial
spirit seemed to have possession of the ,
and to exert its power to produce
a smile on every face. As was now often
the case, the vicar and his daughter were
present, in addition to all the members of
the family. Sir Edward, beginning to take
a more hopeful view of his surroundings, indulged
in a little playful talk with the young
people before he sat down for a quiet game
of chess with the vicar.

Jesse could not disguise the satisfaction he
felt on observing that his father did not once
look sternly at Oliver, or say a word to him
that could cause him any annoyance. In high
spirits he challenged his sister Grace to a game
of backgammon, and soon became very earnest
with her in his play, and apparently regardless
of all else around him.

Charlotte and Miss Gordon were as usual
busy with their needlework for the poor chill.
1. M

drew of the parish, while indulging in the quiet
conversation the business in hand suggested.
Oliver sat near them with a book in his hand,
occasionally putting in a word or two by way
of inquiry, or in answer to a question as a
friendly argument arose between the workers
of the difference of temper and general conduct
to be observed in the children of the school.

Miss Gordon argued that the chief cause of
the difference arose from their home training,
and further, until the teachers could effectually
deal with that, they would be able to produce
no lasting effect on the Christian education of
the children.

1 Then our Sunday-school teaching is a hopeless
matter, I am afraid,' rejoined Charlotte,
for if we cannot by direct influence reach
the children, how can we hope to do so
through the parents in the present state of
the country ? Of course, I am not speaking
of Woodfield alone.'

'It is a very difficult question,' said Miss
Gordon.

1 And what would you suggest as a cure ? '
asked Charlotte.

4 I can suggest nothing,' replied Miss Gordon,
for it appears to me that all we can hope to dois
simply by patient work to modify the present

state of things. If there is anything to be
done by which the parents can be effectually
acted upon, it must be sought for by other
means.'

4 Ah, but who is to find the means ? ' asked
Oliver.

1 You, in part,' replied Miss Gordon.

'Oh yes,' said Oliver, ; a pretty thing forme
to set about looking after. Why, if I
could find them I should not know their use.
My opinion is you had better leave the people
alone, and let their children grow up according
to their nature.'

4 As we would sheep and oxen,' said Miss
Gordon.

1 And why not ? ' said Oliver. ' Do you
think that if a boy is stupid you can make
him wise by talking to him ? If you do I
don't.'

4 We cannot make him wise, I daresay,'
observed Charlotte ; ' but it is not with what
we call stupid children we are so much concerned,
but the bad-tempered and wicked
ones, with their parents.'

4 But if they are born ill-tempered and grow
wicked, who can help it ? ' asked Oliver.

4 That is the question,' said Miss Gordon.

Then I think you had better let the question

alone,' said Oliver. ' If a boy is born
With a bad temper he will have a bad
temper, and he cannot help it.'

You would make us absolutely hopeless,'
said Charlotte.

'Well,' said Oliver, ' I tell you what I think,
but I know I am no match for you two, so
I will go over to Jesse and Grace, and see
how they are coming on with their game

Oliver appears to have a touch of the
fatalist about him this evening observed
Miss Gordon.

He talks a little at random replied Charlotte,
' but I am glad, under any circumstances,
to hear him give utterance to an opinion of
his own. There,' she continued, ' I have
finished my frock for little Dixon, but it
makes me sad to think of the change time
will produce in that sweet, happy face of
hers.'

Let us hope that it will not be a sad
change said Miss Gordon. ' I think her
mother is a careful woman, though her father
may be a little unsteady

The two chess players, who had sat with
their eyes fixed on the rival army with
scarcely a word passing between them but
what related to the progress of the game,

now became a little lively in their movements,
till Sir Edward exclaimed aloud, —

1 You have caught me at last, and I cannot
escape

Yes,' said Mr Gordon, ' I believe it is allover
with you. It has been a hard fight, and
I have more than once found my king nearly
as great a prisoner as yours is now.'

Fate has been against me,' said Sir Edward;
1 and, unless you particularly wish it, I will not
tempt it again to-night.'

Another game might turn the table upon
me,' said Mr Gordon.

1 I am quite satisfied that I could not mend
my play to-night,' replied Sir Edward ; ' soif
you please, we will finish with a little music*

The young people were quickly around the
piano, and with its aid and their own sweet
voices, the evening passed pleasantly away.

The next morning, as the business of the
breakfast was progressing, Sir Edward, addressing
Jesse, said, —

I am going to the school board meeting this
morning, and if you would like to go with me.
I shall be pleased with your company."

May I ask if anything is likely to occur
there to keep one from going to sleep ? '

That I cannot answer for,' replied his father.

When you took me with you some time
since,' said Jesse, ' I thought it was all very
flat — stale ; and I will leave Grace to complete
the passage.'

Unprofitable,' cried Grace ; ' I read it in
Shakespeare not an hour since.'

Shakespeare before breakfast ! ' said Sir
Edward ; ' I am afraid, Miss Grace, that
argues badly for the success of your lessons.'

I was not idling, papa ; I only just chanced
to see it'

On the shelf, through the cover,' suggested
Jesse.

No such thing,' replied Grace ; ' the book
was open on the table, and I am almost certain
you put it there, for Mrs Gibson said you had
just left the room when I entered.

1 I believe you are right,' said Jesse ; ' an
idea had crossed my mind about a historical
personage the great poet has introduced in
one of his plays, and I wished to see if I had
correctly remembered the quotation.'

What ! before breakfast?' cried Grace; 'what
will papa say to you ? '

Nothing in the way of censure, of course,'
replied Jesse; 'you see your case and mine
are totally different. I am a grave old man,
and—'

'You a grave old man!' cried Grace, interrupting
him; 'what nonsense you talk. Where
are your grey hairs ? '

The ship that has them on board is at sea
replied Jesse. ' But if you will wait for them,
I will place them at your service.'

1 I shall have a long time to wait, don't you
think, Oliver ? '

'Well, I should rather think you would.'

'You will go with me, Jesse,' said Sir Edward ;
you may not find it so dull to-day as on your
former visit. We sometimes manage to getup
a little debate with a spice of personality
to flavour it. You,' he said, addressing Oliver.
will not fail to take a lone ride through the
bracing air. While you, I suppose, Charlotte,
if one wanted you, you would be found at the
vicarage, or on vicarage business. You. I
trust, Miss Grace, will give a good, sharp turn
to your lessons with Mrs Gibson, and then
follow Oliver's example.'

Do you mean on my pony, papa ? ' said
Grace, with her bright eyes shining upon
him.

Yes, if Oliver will call for you.'

Oh, I am certain he will ; will you not,
Oliver?'

4 Yes,' said Oliver, ' if you will promise not

to keep me waiting; you know I don't like
to be kept waiting.'

For little girls ! ' put in Jesse.

How naughty you are,' cried Grace ; ' I
do wish you would be quiet.'

1 I have ordered the carriage for ten o'clock,'
said Sir Edward, as he rose from the table
to go to the library to arrange some papers
before leaving home.

He had scarcely seated himself when the
old steward, Lea, entered the room and, having
closed the door carefully behind him, said, —

If you are not very busy, Sir Edward. I
should be glad to speak to you.'

I am busy,' replied Sir Edward, ' but if
what you have to say will not take you long,
I will listen to you.'

You know, Sir Edward,' began the old man,
I am not nearly so strong and able to get
about as I was when I first entered your service,
and — '

1 have heard no complaints of your not
being able to perform your duties,' said his
master, interrupting him ; ' but if you find you
are not equal to them, you have the means
at your disposal of taking a long rest.'

1 Yes, I have saved up a little, but it is not
that I mean.'

1 Well, tell me what it is you do mean,
then.'

I think, Sir Edward, something should be
done with that boy of Mr Montag's at Mrs
Brown's.'

Oh, you wish to speak of him.'

1 Yes, Sir Edward. He has become very
troublesome in the village, and when I spoke
to him he was impudent to me, and Mrs Brown
would have no control over him if she did not
let him do just as he likes.'

1 Then you should speak to the schoolmaster,
and let him take him in hand.'

1 I think, Sir Edward, if you would allow
my son to look out another home for him at
a distance, where he could be kept out of mischief,
it would be better for every one.'

• What mischief do you charge him with ? '

He plays tricks, Sir Edward, with almost
every one that comes in his way.'

4 1 cannot do anything in the matter before
I speak or write to Mr Montag. You know
why he became so greatly attached to the boy,
and that when he left Woodfield to go to his
appointment at Bath he begged me to see that
he was properly cared for. But perhaps you
do not know that, out of his small stipend, he
has promised to provide for the boy.'

1 He does not know the value of money yet
murmured the old steward.

1 That may be said Sir Edward, ' but I
cannot do as you wish without his consent.
He has approved himself worthy of the position
he occupies, and in this matter I consider he
has a claim upon me. You know how earnest
Lady Hare wood was for his and his sister's
welfare, and I have told you how seriously
she entreated me, when she lay on her sick-bed,
not to let them miss her protecting hand. You
must not ask me to act without his consent.'

4 You have been very good to him said the
old steward.

1 I have merely kept my promise rejoined
Sir Edward ; ' and thus far I have been well
rewarded; I have a very good opinion of Mr
Montag's judgment, and I must not forget his
entreaty that I would have an eye to the boy.'

1 I think said the old steward, ' Mrs Brown
lets him do too much as he likes ; but I don't
wish to complain of her, Sir Edward, and I
know you will see it is all right.'

1 Poor old fellow ! ' murmured Sir Edward,
when the servant had left the room ; ' I am
afraid old age has not been content with touching
your back and limbs, but has made itself
felt in your brain. Well, well ! I suppose we

must all in due time feel his heavy hand
upon us.'

At ten o'clock Sir Edward and Jesse left the
Hall for the place of meeting of the school
board. There were but eight members, of
whom two were clergymen of the Church of
England, two ministers of congregations dissenting
from it, three farmers, and their chairman
— Sir Edward. Jesse took a seat with a
few strangers in a place allotted to the public.
A glance around told him the chances were the
meeting would turn out a little more lively
than the former one. All the members were
present, and there was so marked a difference
in the expression of their countenances that
he felt assured, before a word was spoken,
that he was in the presence of two rival
parties.

There was a quiet complaisant smile on
the lips of the clergymen, which spoke of an
assured position of power, while a nervous
twitching about the mouths of the dissenting
ministers seemed to say — we must prepare
ourselves for attack and defence, for we are in
the presence of enemies.

The farmers looked thoughtful, and though
near neighbours, did not appear to be on very
intimate terms with each other, but it might

have been only Jesse's fancy, with no other
foundation than that they had prepared their
speeches, and found it necessary to keep quiet
lest they should forget them ; or it might be
real, and arise from the fact that one farmed
a thousand acres, another four hundred, and
the other but one hundred and fifty.

The minutes of the last meeting having been
read by the clerk, the battle began.

A minister rose to move that one of the
resolutions just read should not be confirmed,
as he contended it showed a purpose of introducing
dogmatical teaching into schools, and
was of a most illiberal character.

The other minister seconded the motion in a
long, sharp speech, to the same purpose.

It may not be amiss, I think,' said the
chairman, ' before we proceed further, if I
remind you that the resolution was put openly
at the last meeting, and unanimously passed.
Would it not be well to let the board know
a little more fully than you have yet done, the
great evils you expect will follow if the resolution
is confirmed ?'

Neither I nor my friend was present at the
last meeting,' said the first speaker, ' and we
entirely disagree to anything being done of
such a nature but by a full board.'

Does any other gentleman wish to speak ? '
asked the chairman.

The clergymen smiled at each other, and the
farmers were all but silent.

Five to two, as might have been expected,
settled the question.

It was our duty to protest,' said the first
minister, ' and we wish it to go abroad to the
public that we have performed our duty.'

Reports of the different schools under the
board were then read, which appeared to excite
little attention, until a complaint made by one
of their officers, that the farm labourers were
very remiss in sending their children to school.

This brought one of the farmers to his feet,
who said he thought their officers were a little
puffed up with the authority they had received
from the board, and were using it tyrannically
upon the labourers.

Their duty is very simple,' observed the
chairman. ' It consists in their doing their
best to get the children to school, and if they
meet with opposition from the parents, to report
the case to us, and, if necessary, request
their attendance here, unless the offenders prefer
being summoned before a magistrate.'

The clerk then read out a list of those whose
children had been absent from school several

times during the last month. These, Sir Edward
was pleased to see, did not reside on his
property.

He had always acted up to what he considered
his duty with respect to the labourers
on his estate. He did not look upon his connection
with them as ended when they had
performed their work and received their weekly
wage. He knew that most of the men had
but a very superficial knowledge of the world
in which they lived, and that however well-intentioned
they might be, were always open
to the influence of others who, for their own
special advantage, would lead them from the
path of honest industry and contentment to an
imaginary condition in which they could be
able to dictate terms to their employers, and
by force obtain from them an increased return
for their labour.

The selfish political and social agitators he
held in supreme contempt. He knew they
were not open to conviction of their wrongdoing,
but he did not believe they were to be
kept at a distance by mere talk, or by attempting
to prove that everything was just as it
should be, and if a stone were moved in the
social or political edifice, the whole building
would immediately fall to the ground, and the

power of England disappear from the world,
like that of the great nations of old.

His mode of proceeding with his people
partook far more of deeds than of words. On
taking possession of his property, his first care
was to discover the real condition of his labourers,
both with respect to their dwellings
and manner of living. The result of this was
very soon apparent, not only in repairing and
building of cottages, but in the more careful
cultivation of their enlarged gardens and their
general improved conduct.

He avoided the character of being one who
wished to deprive the poor man of his beer
by speaking of it as a poisonous drug, calculated
to weaken the mind and fill the body with
disease and death. ' I do not object to your
taking a pint of beer when you are thirsty and
feel you want it he would say, ' but I warn
you that, so far as I am able, I will keep you
from drinking to excess and wasting in the
beer house the means of increasing your and
your families' home comforts.'

It would have been a sore disappointment to
him had any of his people been charged with
neglecting to send their children to school.
The three cases brought before the board were
from a distance, and without the range of his

direct influence. There was nothing very
noticeable in them. The parents had excuses
in abundance ; but it was evident that the real
cause of their negligence arose from the fact
that they estimated the education children were
said to be receiving at school as something
that would be worse than useless to them when
they became men and women.

And in this they were, perchance, to some
extent right ; for is it not possible that the
education in our schools in the present day is a
little too ambitious, and the idea of opening a
university course to every boy in our elementary
schools very extravagant. What is to
become of the country if the prize is to be
only for intellectual excellence ? Will the
labourer who has to work in the fields not
become discontented with his lot, or will anyone
propose that the land should be allowed to
oo out of cultivation ?

And the girls who are to be mothers of a
future generation, will they not need something
much more homely than a knowledge of astronomy
and its kindred subjects, with drawing,
music, fancy needlework, and so on ? If their
poor little heads are to be filled with ambitious
thoughts of becoming ladies, or at least fitted
for lady-like employment, who will then be left

to cook the dinners and keep the house free
from dust and cobwebs ? Will our lady-helps
hold on to the time when the house, from cellar
to garret, will be left entirely to them ?

The business of the school board beings
and mid-day scarcely passed, Sir Edward
proposed that they should drive over to
Downend, and call upon Mr CresswelL Jesse
would much rather have returned home to take
his gun and go out for a stroll towards the
keeper's house ; but he had no excuse to oner
for doing so, and therefore quietly acquiesced
in the proposed trip.

vol r.

- 7 in time for luncheon, Sir

Edward' cried Mr Cresswell, as
c carriage was driven up to ther
of Elston Court, by the side
of whi: ending. ' My wife and

Liter are in the dining-rooms Come in,
they will be delighted to see you at

such a convenient ho -

■ It did not strike me that we should find
you at luncheon,' said Sir Edward, ' or we
mig ht have made our call a little k

i could not have made it at a better
time — that said, correcting himself, * unless

:>k of luncheon before leaving

', rr. ~

■ We came direct from the school board
meeting said Sir Edward, on the impulse of

ir™»— we finished early, and the day

being so fine, we set out at once for Downend
instead of returning home.'

By this time they had reached the ladies,
by whom they were received in the old cordial
and friendly manner. Jesse had long :
a favourite at Elston Court. Mr and Mrs
Cresswell looked upon him. perhaps, too partially
as a youth who would make his mark
in the world in whatever profession or business
he might choose to engage in. Xor was Edith
less favourably disposed towards him, so that
the welcome he received all round was oi the
most flattering description.

The luncheon over, Mr Cresswell observed

Sir Edward, —

1 I have been engaged this morning preparing
tor a little alteration in the orchard.'

Not to remove any of my old friends, I brus

1 None but what are absolutely worn out.'
replied Mr Cresswell. 'A good neighbour now
in Devonshire has sent me a hundred young
trees, for which I was of course bound to make
room. Perhaps you will take a turn with.
and see what I am proposing to do. I car.
mv wife and Edith will be able to onto:
jc during our absence* 1

Or rather you should say. papa.' remarked
Edith, 4 that he could entertain u

Our entertainment shall be mutual if you
please,' said Jesse. ' We will talk of all
we have seen and heard during the last
month, and if we work out that before your
reappearance, we will do a little in the way of
speculation about the one to come.'

When Mr Cresswell and his visitor reached
the orchard, they found several men busily
employed in digging holes.

You seem to have made an admirable choice
of your position for the young trees,' observed
Sir Edward ; ' but which of my old friends are
you about to remove ? '

1 Not one, if you have a word to urge for
their preservation.'

I don't like parting with old friends,' said Sir
Edward ; ' but of course if you are well advised
that they are useless, they must away.'

Mr Cresswell called Harris, the head gardener,
to come and show Sir Edward the trees
he had marked for removal.

The first pointed out was a pear tree.

What ! my old friend King William ?' exclaimed
Sir Edward, ' doomed to the axe.
Poor old fellow ! you have gone off sadly since
our first acquaintance, when you used to invite
me to your arms and feast me with your luscious
fruit. More than once,' he added, turning to

Mr Cresswell, ' have I been ensconced up then
covered with leaves and surrounded with fruit,
busy as a boy could be in such a place, when
you thought I was in my room cramming my
head with knowledge.'

1 Not very often,' said Mr Cresswell, with a
laugh.

1 Oftener than I can remember, and much
oftener than I would at the time have ventured
to tell you. And what disease is the poor
fellow suffering from ? It cannot be ok!
age.'

Not exactly,' replied Harris, ' though he
did not start up out of the earth yesterday, Sir
Edward. He is suffering from a canker, which
would in the end kill him.'

4 Ah ! ' said Sir Edward, on seeing a mark on
an apple tree, ' and there is my old friend
Wellington doomed to destruction. Surely the
best go first.'

1 He has been foolish enough, I am told."
said Mr Cresswell, 'to thrust his underground
arms down into some poisonous substance,
and feed greedily upon it.'

It makes me sad,' said Sir Edward, ' to see
my old friends thus dealt with, but I suppose it
cannot be helped.'

1 This one,' said Harris, pointing to another

tree, ' has been so damaged by the wind, that
he has scarcely a sound limb left to his body.'

1 Come, Mr Cresswell,' said Sir Edward, ' I
think we had better go to your young friends ;
the old ones appear to have nothing but trouble
before them. Often, when a boy, did I in the
winter look upon their grey trunks and withered-looking,
moss-covered arms, and wonder if they
would ever bear fruit again ; but the summer
came, and I was pleased to think they had only
been asleep, and had once more awoke to give
me fruit as sweet and plentiful as before ; but
now they are going for ever. Were I still a
child, I think I could weep over them if I saw
them uprooted on the ground, never more to
awake or welcome me to their leafy branches.
You are making good large holes for the young
ones, I see, and will fill up with suitable soil to
guard them from seeking unwholesome nourishment.
May they be fruitful, and reward your
care ! '

The labour of planting is ours,' remarked
Mr Cresswell, ' but the great harvest of the
fruit must inevitably be for others.'

1 Surely not altogether replied Sir Edward.
1 1 suppose, in the course of two or three years,'
he said to the gardener, ' you expect to have
them in good bearing ? '

Two or three years," observed Mr Cress-well,
' a young man may look upon as a small
space of time, but when one has passed the
limit of three-score years and ten, the end of
even a single year is a long time to look
forward to.'

• That cannot be your case,' said Sir Edward.
Time has passed lightly over you, and left you
to look forward for the fruit of your orchard for
many a busy year to come.'

There is always one consolation left to the
planter said Mr Cresswell. ' However dreary
his own personal outlook may be, he can rest
assured that, while summer and winter last, he
has not planted in vain. If his hands are by
his side, others will be ready to reap the fruit
of his labour.'

When they left the orchard, instead of returning
direct to the house, Mr Cresswell led his
visitor into a retired walk, well remembered by
them for many an interesting conversation they
had had together in years long past. For a
while, his object in doing so did not become
apparent. The state of the weather, and the
kind of winter they might from present appearances
look forward to, and other like trifling
subjects, sufficed to supply them with food for
talk ; and it was not until Sir Edward observed

that he thought it was time for them to return
to the ladies, that Mr Cresswell began to unburden
his mind to his friend of ideas which
had during the last few days become very
troublesome.

1 If you had not called upon me to-day,' he
began, in a hesitating manner, ' I believe ere
tomorrow by this time you would have seen
me at the Hall.'

And a welcome guest there,' said Sir
Edward, seeing that his companion appeared
at a loss for words.

1 That I am well assured of,' said Mr Cress-well
; ' but I am afraid if you had asked me the
cause of my visit, I should have had some difficulty
in giving it a name. The truth is, I am
being worried with a disagreeable matter that I
had hoped I had done with.'

Then again he paused.

Yes said Sir Edward ; ' I am listening
to you.'

1 The annoyance arising from my daughter's
unfortunate marriage is again troubling me.'

1 Any news of the foolish fellow ? ' asked Sir
Edward.

Rather say wicked,' rejoined Mr Cresswell bitterly.
' He might perhaps have fairly been called
foolish if his conduct had brought distress only

on himself; 'but since it has had the effect of
planting a dagger in the hearts of those whom
he should have honoured and protected, the
word foolish gives one but a very poor idea of
him. But for the home that was open to
receive her, he would have plunged Edith into
difficulties fearful to think of.'

Sir Edward shuddered as if a cup of iced
water had been suddenly poured down his
back, and then said hurriedly, —

1 And his father, I suppose, is no better ? '

4 No,' replied Mr Cresswell ; 'the strong,
healthy man has, by his son's misconduct, been
brought to the brink of the grave.'

1 Am I to understand,' asked Sir Edward,
1 that you are expecting Mr Lyson's return ?'

'No,' replied Mr Cresswell ; ' it is not quite
so bad as that. I cannot say I expect him ;
though there is no accounting for the acts of a
seeming - madman. He knows the conditions
upon which he draws upon me for his income ;
and until he has tried to work further upon my
fears from a distance, I shall not expect his
return. He is now, I have reason to believe,
at Marseilles, or in its neighbourhood, leading
as reckless a life as it is possible for a man to
lead who has not been utterly banned by all
decent society. Whether he met my informant

— an old friend of our family — by chance or
design, I do not know, but he appears to have
poured into his ear an account of some trouble
into which he has fallen on the old subject of
dishonoured bills. My friend writes — for it is
only by letter I have received the unpleasant
news — that, seeing his distress, he had advanced
him a small sum of money, and that he
would wait for my further instructions as to
anything more I might wish him to do before
his return to England, which he supposed
would be in the course of a couple of
months.'

You are speaking of your friend's return.'
Oh yes ; the return of my graceless son-in-law
was not even alluded to,' replied Mr Cress-well.
' Now what, under the circumstances, I
ought to do, I am at a loss to discover. Edith
knows nothing of the letter, and if I can help
it, she shall not. Poor soul ! she has had
trouble more than enough about him already.
Can you advise me ? '

I think,' replied Sir Edward, ' you should
tell your friend that Mr Lyson is in receipt
of a good income, and that beyond seeing
that that was placed at his disposal, you
could do nothing further for him. You will, of
course, remit him the sum he has advanced ;

and then, by way of postscript, you can beg
him if he should chance to call upon you on his
return, not to mention the matter to either your
wife or daughter.'

1 The thought of doing something of the
kind,' said Mr Cresswell, ' has been present to
my mind, and I will now at once enter upon
my task.'

1 I have not seen your poor vicar lately,'
observed Sir Edward; 'and I think, now I
am so near, I will call upon him ; he at least
is greatly to be pitied.'

1 Yes, indeed,' said Mr Cresswell, ' his grey
hairs are in truth being brought down with
sorrow to the grave. But with respect to his
daughters, if the case were not so serious, one
might be disposed, to hear them talk, to look
upon their brother's conduct as a mere jest.
You long since observed how infatuated they
were about their brother. I think as they
grow older the disease, for I can call it by no
better name, seems to grow upon them. I
have but little patience to listen to them, but
if you will take me with you, it will save mea
more formal visit at some future time.'

1 I suppose Edith does not often meet
them ? '

No ; but very seldom,' was the reply.

When they reached the vicarage they found
the vicar seated in his arm-chair before the
fire, closely wrapped up in his dressing-gown,
shivering with cold.

As the gentlemen were introduced, he rose
trembling from his chair, and said, —

1 I am ashamed you should find me so unprepared
to receive you.'

I trust we have not disturbed you said
Sir Edward, ' but as I was at Downend, I
thought I should like to see you before I
left.'

1 Thank you,' said the vicar ; ' I am but
poorly. I have been out in my parish a little
this morning, and it has wearied me very
much. I do not know how I should manage
without my daughters, who do so much of
my visiting for me.'

Do you not have your curate to assist
you ? ' asked Mr Cresswell.

1 Yes, but he is very young at his work,'
replied the vicar peevishly, ' and does not get
on very well with the poor people.'

'He is a stranger,' observed Mr Cresswell.
1 Perhaps in a little while you will find him
more useful.'

I trust I shall, — I trust I shall,' said the vicar,
1 for it is very hard upon me now. Ah, there

are my daughters at the door. Poor things,
they will be very tired.'

1 You appear to be suffering from a cold,'
remarked Sir Edward. ■ Are you in much
pain ? '

I have a pain here,' he replied, as he placed
his hand upon his heart, ' which no earthly
medicine can touch ; but it will be soon over, —
it will be soon over, and I must not complain.'

It is difficult to avoid doing so when one is
in pain,' observed Sir Edward.

Yes, yes ; very, very difficult indeed, but
my daughters tell me I must not complain.'

As he finished speaking his daughters entered
the room, and very graciously returned the salutation
of the visitors. Years were beginning
tell upon their sharpened features, and the
grating noise they had bestowed upon their
never very musical voices.

Well,' said the vicar, ' did you finish my
work for me ? '

1 Yes,' replied Miss Lyson, ' but the ignorant
people are so dissatisfied with the curate, that
they are full of complaints.'

Oh, dear ! ' moaned the vicar, ' why am I
left by my only son, who could so well help
me if he would ? '

'You must be patient, papa,' said Miss

Lyson, ' and wait till he can come. You
know he told you when he last wrote that he
would be with you as soon as possible.'

1 Oh yes,' said the vicar, ' but that is an old
story — a very old story.'

You must not talk so.' said Dorothy,
the younger sister. ' He will be sure
to come soon. Do you not think so, Sir
Edward ? '

1 Really,' replied that gentleman, ' I am afraid
I am not sufficiently acquainted with his intentions
to give an opinion respecting the time
of his return.'

• I shall never see him again,' murmured the
vicar.

1 Oh, papa,' said Dorothy, ' how wicked you
are to be so despairing. You should exert
yourself to be cheerful now Sir Edward has
called to see you, and not sit there like a
poor lame old man, muffled up in your 
as if you were quite helpless.'

1 I begged Sir Edward to excuse me. I
think I told him that I was cold ; but I don't
know, my memory is very bad.'

1 You are weary with your morning's work,'
kindly observed Sir Edward, ' and I am afraid
we broke in upon your rest.'

I am very glad you called, but you see I

am not so strong as I used to be,' sighed the
vicar.

I trust we shall find you better when we
call again,' said Mr Cresswell.

Pray do not rise said Sir Edward.
1 Yes, I will go with you to the door, though
I am tired. You see I am still able to walk,'
and, getting up from his chair while he was
speaking, he tottered across the room to the
door, with his shoulders up, his back curved,
and his head thrust unmeaningly forward, not
the picture but the reality of a broken-hearted
father, mourning secretly over the worse than
death of his son.

The gentlemen left the vicarage fully impressed
with the idea that if a change in the
vicar's health did not shortly take place, he
would soon cease to be a burden to himself
or any one else. They did not, however,
speak their fears on their return to the ladies
and Jesse.

That was a capital ride we had yesterday,
sir, with Miss Grace,' said Jasper to his master,
when he took his hot water to him the next
morning.

You may think so,' replied Oliver, ' but I
don't ; and it will be a long time before I
venture on such a ride again.'

1 Ever so much better than always going
along on the dusty old roads, I think,' said
Jasper, 'and so does Miss Grace.'

1 Don't talk to me about it,' said Oliver, ' I
am all of a tremble when \ think of the way
she took to the hedges. Why, if she must
go across the fields, why could she not go
through the gates with me ? Suppose her
pony had thrown her off while going over a
high hedge, she might have been killed ; and
if she had been killed, what would have been
said to me for letting her do it ? '

1 No one could blame you for the pony's
fault, but there was no fear of her falling off.
She sits upon her pony as if she was growing
to it, and springs up and down like the branches
of a tree in a summer's breeze.'

1 Well,' said Oliver, ' I know I will not
go through the fields again with her to be
frightened to death as I was yesterday, and
so I shall tell her the first thing this morning.'

Better ask her to show you how she sits, sir.'

4 No ; I will do nothing of the kind,' replied
Oliver ; ' I have quite enough to make me nervous
without going out of my way to jump
over hedges.'

I am sorry you are so easily frightened
said Jasper.

Easily frightened ! ' repeated Oliver ; ' I
don't know what you can be thinking of. Is
it not enough to frighten you when you see
a lady ride as Grace does, over hedges and
ditches, when one false step would send her,
I don't know where. Easily frightened ! ' he
again repeated. ' Do you mean to tell me
that I was easily frightened in the churchyard
that niorht ? '

1 If you had only stood still and — '

Stood still ! ' cried Oliver, interrupting him ;
would you have stood still had you been there
alone as I was ? '

I think I should,' said Jasper.

4 Yes, now you know what it was that was
there ; but in the dark, with the old grim
church on the one side, and the tombstone on
the other with something moving upon it all
in white, the case would perhaps appear a little
different, even to you

1 I hope, when you meet the boy, you will
not tell him he frightened you.'

Why not ? ' asked Oliver.

Because, if you do, he may be trying it on
again.'

1 But you warned him not to do so again.'
Yes, I told him, if he ever tried to play
such a trick again, I would put him under the
vol. 1. o

pump, and pump the water on his head till
I had washed every bit of nonsense out of it.'

And he promised not to do it again ? '
'Yes replied Jasper; 'though at first he

only laughed, and said I should find it rather
a troublesome job. You will go to the cottage
and see him

1 Do you think it is worth the trouble ? '
asked Oliver.

I think not, if it's only to see him ; but
then, you know you said you would go with
me to see Mrs Brown. I think, between the
two, you might get a little fun out of them.

4 But said Oliver, ' you will not leave me
there alone with them ? '

Oh r.o, of course not ; but when shall we
go — before or after your ride ? '

Before ; then I shall have an excuse to
get away if I don't feel comfortable there. You
will not let her talk much about ghosts ? '

Nor boys running about in white sheets,'
added Jasper.

'Now said Oliver, 'you must not go on
telling me of that, or I shall leave off talking
to you

About twelve o'clock, as Jasper would have
said, 'the look-in at Mrs Brown's cottage took
place.' It stood by the side of a green shady

lane a few yards from the high road. As it
belonged to Sir Edward Hare wood and was
so near the Hall, under any circumstance it
would have been a neat, comfortable place,
but there were special reasons why this should
have had more than the ordinary attention of
the owner.

Mrs Brown, though now nearly sixty years
of age, had been, in the days of her vigour,
a strong, active, and intelligent woman, to
whom a great part of the villagers owed, if
not life, a close attention early upon it. Many
a time, in the dark, still night, had she been
suddenly called upon, through the chattering
teeth of a young husband, to go forth on her
mission of usefulness and her country's good.
For some years a sister had shared her cottage
with her and attended to the household duties
when she was away attending to the wants
of the mothers of the rising generation. But
she was now alone. The old enemy had carried
off her sister, and now that Mr Montag had
left for Bath, had it not been for the boy-stephen
she would have been lonely enough.

For some months previous to her sister's
death, she had given up her occupation into
younger hands. With the little she had saved,
and the money she received on account of the

boy, she was enabled to avail herself of the
services of a neighbour to come in for an hour
or two during the day to do the rough work
incident to housekeeping. For the placing and
keeping in order her well rubbed furniture and
ornaments she would have no hands touch them
but her own.

When her charge, Stephen Elvin, was at
school, after having satisfied herself that everything
was in order, she would sit down and
read a portion of her Bible, chiefly in the places
where angels' visits to the earth were spoken
of, or sorcery or witchcraft brought under notice.
Numerous as such passages are, not one of
them, she believed, had escaped her notice,
nor in the New Testament either.

And when reminded by any one that the
events she spoke of occurred in years long
gone by, she would bring out a well-worn old
pamphlet bearing on its front page the strange
title of ' Life after Death which was intended
to confirm the faith of her visitors by proving
to them that spirits were as freely passing around
us noways they were round the people of old.

She did not attempt to force her opinions
upon others, as she had learnt that to many
it appeared an unprofitable subject. Many of
her old friends occasionally looked in upon

her, and amongst the number the old house
steward. Through him she received her pay
for the boy Stephen, though she had reason
to believe that the boy was anything but a
favourite, and the same might be also said of
Mr Montag before he left Woodfield. To a
stranger, his manner to her would have appeared
a little uncertain, or, as if he had not
quite made up his mind whether he would treat
her as a friend or an enemy. In truth, for
years past he had seldom left her with a smile
upon his face.

But it was very different when Miss Montag,
having in charge the keeper's youngest child,
called to see her brother, and after he was
gone to Bath, the boy who had saved his life.
At the sight of them Mrs Brown's countenance
would light up with pleasure, and having welcomed
Lizzie, she would draw the little fellow
to her and fondle over him as earnestly as if
he had been her own child. Whatever change
time might be working in her strength, it was
evident it had not touched the depth of feeling
with which she had ever regarded children, —
1 " Their angels do always behold the face of
my father which is in Heaven"' she would
murmur. ' So it was said by one who could
not be mistaken, and so I believe it is now.'

S Oliver and his attendant Jasper, on
their visit to Mrs Brown, turned from
the high road into the green lane,
they encountered Stephen Elvin,
who was amusing himself by slashing a pond
with a long withe to the great annoyance, if not
alarm, of two ducks and a drake, who a
moment before had been sailing calmly about in
quiet security. As soon as he saw the newcomers,
he sprang up from his half recumbent
position, and darted down the lane at a rate
which alarmed Mrs Brown, who happened to beat
her door as he passed.

Stephen, Stephen ! ' she cried, ' what is the
matter ? Where are you going ? '

But the boy did not stop to say what was
wrong, or whither he was going.

Why, bless the child,' she cried, ' where in
the name of goodness can he be going to ? '



As she moved a few steps from the door to
take in a further stretch of the road, she saw the
young squire, as she was wont to call Oliver,
with Jasper coming towards her. She needed
no further explanation of Stephen's disappearance.
' The little rogue she murmured, ■ he
has been up to his tricks again. I think he
has the life of twenty people in his little body.'

'Well, Mrs Brown,' said Jasper, 'I have
brought Mr Oliver to see you.'

1 I should have been quite as well pleased to
see Mr Oliver alone.'

I Now, Mrs Brown,' said Jasper, ' don't bear
malice. Forgive and forget, that's the thing,
you know.'

I I can forgive, but not forget rudeness,' said
Mrs Brown.

1 Please, sir,' said Jasper, in a tone of mock
humility, ' speak a good word for me. You
see when I was here a little while ago, Mrs
Brown and I did not quite agree.'

I do not think he meant to offend you,'
observed Oliver. ' We saw your little fellow
at the top of the lane, but instead of stopping
to speak to us he ran frightened away.'

1 Not frightened,' said Mrs Brown ; ■ Stephen
is never frightened.'

'Never frightened,' said Oliver doubtfully;

1 and is he good, and always does what you tell
him to do ? '

Yes, he is a dear, good boy, always at home
lively, but never wicked.'

Truthful, honest, and so on,' put in Jasper.

Do you get a good account of him from
school ? ' asked Oliver.

Yes,' replied Mrs Brown ; ' only he's a little
too lively and quick for the other boys. He
can learn his own lesson, and then plague them
when they are learning theirs.'

1 And he plagues people out of school sometimes
Jasper tells me.'

You must not believe all Jasper says about
him, sir. Though he is a little too quick for
most people.'

And how do all your pretty things escape
from being broken?' said Oliver, as he looked
round the room.

He never touches them,' said Mrs Brown.
1 He is always good with me, and is as pleased
to see the house kept clean and in order as I
am. Ah, here he is ! ' she continued, as the
boy was seen peeping in at the door. ' Come
in, Stephen ! Here is Mr Oliver come to
see us.'

Yes, and Jasper too, I suppose,' said the
boy.

1 You are not afraid of me, are you ? ' said
Jasper.

Afraid ! what do you mean ?' said the boy,
coming boldly into the room.

1 There — there's a spirit,' said Mrs Brown
approvingly.

4 No ; I'm not a spirit,' said Stephen, 'I'm
only a boy.'

1 But boys have spirits always near them,'
said Mrs Brown.

So you have often told me, but I have
never seen one yet, and as for my own, I don't
know where it is.'

But you will when you ore older.'

1 Shall I ? Well, I can't make it out. You
told me they were always in white, and so I
tried to make myself one.'

4 Yes,' said Mrs Brown, ' and that was very
naughty.'

1 And how did you do it ? ' nervously asked
Oliver.

1 I got a sheet off my bed, and put it all
round me, and a night-cap on my head, and
went out into the churchyard. I think ever so
many people ran away from me ; but when the
sheet fell off, I found I was only the boy I was
before I went out.'

1 Did you ever see a real spirit, Mrs Brown?'

asked Oliver, in a low voice little above a
whisper.

Mrs Brown cast a scrutinising glance upon
Oliver to see if he was in earnest, and then said
in a subdued tone, ' Yes, I believe I have.'

1 Oh yes, and more than one,' said Jasper.

1 Please tell me, in what shape ? ' whispered
Oliver.

Sometimes like angels, beautiful to look
upon, and sometimes — '

1 Yes,' murmured Oliver, in breathless expectation.


1 And sometimes like ugly creatures too
dreadful to — '

1 Now if you are going away amongst them
again,' said the boy, interrupting her, ' I am off
to school. I have heard all about them, but
they only come in the dark, so there is no
chance of seeing them now.'

1 But are you not afraid in the dark ? ' asked
Oliver.

■ Not a bit,' said the boy. ' I suppose they
know I don't care for them, and so they keep
out of my way.'

1 But if you are never afraid,' said Jasper,
1 why did you run away when you saw us
coming down the lane ?'

'Just to make you run after me, that Mr

Oliver might see which could run fastest ; and
now I'm off again if you like to try ?'

As he scampered up the lane, Oliver said
with a siorh. ' I wish I could feel as he does.
I think I must often come to see you, Mrs
Brown, and get you to tell me the stories
you have told him ; perhaps I shall then grow
as fearless as he is. Do you think we have
always a spirit near us, and ready to help us in
our troubles ? '

1 Have you not read in your Bible that it is
so?' asked Mrs Brown.

1 Yes,' said Oliver, ' But was that written
for us ? '

1 It was written for all times and everybody,'
said Mrs Brown, 'as I understand it.'

1 Well, I certainly will come and see you
again,' said Oliver ; ' but we must go now.'

Behaved better this time said Jasper.

'A little,' said Mrs Brown; 'but still there
is great room for improvement.'

As the two returned to the Hall, an indefinable
expression might be seen passing and
repassing over the features of Oliver. His
visit to the cottage had been chiefly to assure
himself of the truth of the churchyard ghost as
it had been explained to him by Jasper, and by
what he had just learnt from the boy, all doubt

had left his mind. A more serious, and if
possible a more perplexing thought, however,
had taken its place. He had expected to hear
Mrs Brown speak about ghosts and goblins
that fly about over the earth, just as if they had
nothing else to do but to frighten people out of
their wits, yet she had said not a word of the
kind. He had. heard her speak calmly and
very seriously of something she seemed to feel
and understand.

1 Is it possible,' he thought, ' that I have an
angel always by my side sent to me from
heaven to help me along the road of life ? If
it is so, why am I so different from others ?
Why does it not strengthen me and help me to
conquer my nervousness when I am in the presence
of any one who I feel is my superior ? I
must think about it and see Mrs Brown again,
and have a long talk with her.'

1 I do not think he said to Jasper, ' that Mrs
Brown is quite the person I thought she was.'

'She seemed much quieter when she got
upon her ghost stories to-day,' said Jasper,
1 than when I saw her last.'

1 I suppose you provoked her and made her
ansfrv,' said Oliver.

Very likely,' admitted Jasper, ' for I had
but little patience with her nonsense.'

1 Did you think she talked nonsense to-day ? '
asked Oliver.

1 Well, I can't say,' replied Jasper. ' I only
know I don't understand her, and I think you
will say the same if you can get her to talk a
little more freely to you.'

1 But if what she believes is true, and — '

1 Yes,' said Jasper, interrupting him, ' but she
did not tell you all she believes ; and when you
hear her talk of ghost stories as seriously as
she does of her Bible, you will perhaps grow
doubtful, though I daresay she is better than
I am.'

Insensibly Jasper had become for him very
serious, and what he had been in the habit
of looking upon as a jest, assumed another
character in his eyes. Oliver at the same time
was doubtless greatly impressed with what he
had heard. But when they reached the Hall,
the one to go into the dining-room, to take his
place where he was never fairly at his ease, and
the other to mingle with his fellow-servants, old
thoughts returned, and the new ones at least
for a time faded from their minds.

And so you have been to call upon Mrs
Brown ?' said Grace to Oliver. ' Some people
say she is a queer old woman, but I like her,
and I think she is a dear old body.'

1 She was very kind to me,' said Oliver.

'Yes,' said Grace, 'and she knows everything
about everybody who has lived in the
village for the last fifty years I do believe, and
as for her boy, there is no one like him.'

The old steward who stood near flushed up
a little as he listened, and his lips moved, but
he did not speak ; whatever his feelings might
be towards Mrs Brown, he had taken a great
dislike to Stephen Elvin, and with difficulty
kept the knowledge of it to himself.

The boy Stephen seems a lively little
fellow said Oliver.

1 And very mischievous too, I am afraid. I
hear some sad accounts of his tricks in the
village,' observed Miss Hare wood.

Merely childish, I hope,' remarked Sir
Edward. ' Lea has been telling me that he is
afraid the boy is getting beyond the control of
Mrs Brown.'

4 I am not of his opinion, then,' rejoined Miss
Harewood. ' From what I have lately seen and
heard of him, I imagine she is the only one in
the village, excepting his schoolmaster, who
can control him.'

1 Do you hear that, Lea ? ' said Sir Edward.

1 Yes, Sir Edward,' replied the old man,
1 Miss Harewood is always very kind to

children, and I know she does not like to
think ill of any one.'

But what have you seen to think ill of
him?'

I do not think so ill of him, miss, as of the
others' mismanagement,' replied Lea.

4 Are you going out with your gun ? ' asked
Sir Edward of Jesse.

Yes, I think so,' was the reply.

1 I am so glad,' said Grace, ■ that you have
given up your study for going amongst the black
people who kill and eat one another. If you
had gone to Africa, we should never have seen
you again.'

4 Perhaps I shall go after I leave Oxford
rejoined Jesse.

4 No, you will not,' retorted Grace. ' By that
time you will have grown too wise to throw
yourself away amongst savages.'

4 You will take your gun and go out with
your brother,' said Sir Edward to Oliver.

4 I am just going out for my ride,' replied
Oliver.

4 You can make it a short one to-day, and
go with Jesse afterwards.' As Oliver left the
room to mount his pony, which Jasper had
brought to the door, his father added, ' You
will be back in an hour, and ready for your

gun ;' and then turning to Jesse, he said, ' And
now, although I could not spare the afternoon
for the woods, I have an hour at my disposal
for a short walk.'

In a few minutes they were out in the shrubbery,
accompanied by Grace, who had in her
little basket some scraps collected from the
table to carry out to the birds.

Papa,' said Grace, ' I wish you would build
me an aviary just under that holly-tree. It
would be so nice in the winter to know that
the dear birds had a warm shelter.'

Would you deprive them of their liberty ? '

1 Oh no, papa, that I would not. I only
want it to shelter them in cold weather. It
should be always open for them to go out and
in as they liked.'

Your pensioners appear in excellent condition,'
said Jesse ; ' and I could almost fancy
some of them know you.'

Of course they do, and I know them,' replied
Grace.

By name ? ' asked Jesse.

1 Yes ; look at that black, jolly fellow there,
who is watching us, — his name is Bob the
Winker, and there is Mrs Bob, his wife, by his
side ; and the thrush over there, his name is
Pet the Songster. He is the little fellow who

has been singing to us so prettily near the
windows.'

You have a long list of them.'

1 Oh yes, a very long one.'

1 Written out in a very scholarly hand.'

1 Now, Jesse,' cried Grace, 'you are laughing
at me, and yet I think I write almost as well
as you do.'

If, by a little more practice,' said Sir Edward,
' you can make yourself quite sure of it,
you may look upon the aviary as already secure
to shelter your large fluttering family.'

Oh, thank you, papa ! ' cried Grace ; ' and
now good-bye, little birds, for I must not lose
a moment before I begin my practice.' Saying
which, she ran back to the Hall.

1 I think,' observed Sir Edward, ' Grace's idea
of a winter shelter for her birds is not by
any means to be spoken lightly of. If there is
any truth in the old adage that when the hawthorn
and holly are covered with red, a sharp,
cold winter may be expected. I think I never
saw the trees and bushes so loaded with berries
as they are this autumn.'

1 They add greatly to the beauty of the
scenery, but if they foreshadow a very severe
winter, what will poor people say to them ? '

I trust our poor will be prepared to meet

VOL. I. P

it said Sir Edward, ■ as it has been my constant
aim to make them thrifty.'

'And I think they have followed your advice,'
said Jesse; 'but I was not thinking of
them alone, but of the poor generally throughout
the country.'

'Ah!' rejoined Sir Edward, 'that is a large
subject, and one very difficult to be dealt with
satisfactorily, and I am afraid it will remain so
until every person who employs labourers takes
more interest in their welfare than at the present
time he is in the habit of doing.'

1 And do away with the idea that there is
anything derogatory in labour if a man works
honestly in his position, whatever that may be.'

1 Yes,' said Sir Edward ; ' and if nature has
fitted him for a higher class of work than his
neighbour, to use his greater responsibility without
pride or arrogance.'

The training for such a purpose must be
begun early,' said Jesse.

1 I look upon it,' said Sir Edward, ' as one of
the most difficult problems of our age, to know
how to deal with a youth who shows greater
ability for study than his fellows, and particularly
so when at school. I once thought that
such a boy should be taken by the hand and
lifted into a higher sphere than his friends

could afford to place him. But I confess that
I am becoming doubtful of such a case now,
for when a boy who has been assisted to rise
in the estimation of the world, turns round and
treats with contempt his former associates and
friends, it becomes a very serious question
whether it would not have been better to have
left him unnoticed until he had been able to use
his reasoning faculties to better effect'

1 Judging from the examination papers one
meets with,' said Jesse, ' it appears that they
are framed chiefly for the clever boys.'

Yes,' replied Sir Edward, ' and I am afraid
I have hitherto looked too favourably upon the
idea that if we could educate the clever boys,
they would in turn assist to bring up the dull
ones ; but the youth I see in the distance
crossing the park has given me much cause to
doubt if an act of the kind we are speaking of,
however well intended, may not prove rather a
curse than a blessing.'

You allude to Philip Lea,' said Jesse.

Yes, and I must confess that he has greatly
disappointed me,' replied Sir Edward. ' All
his education appears to be confined to his
head, while his heart has grown cold to the
very instincts of nature.'

1 I cannot tell why it is so,' said Jesse, ' but I

have a positive dislike to be near him. His
pompous, conceited manner makes me feel that
he is safer out of my reach than within it.'
I am sorry he has annoyed you.'
1 He has not done anything personally offensive
to me,' said Jesse, ' but often of late, when
he has crossed my path, I have felt that if I
had a horsewhip in my hand, I must lay it
about the conceited fellow's shoulders.'

I repeat,' said Sir Edward, ' that I am sorry
he has so much annoyed you, and I will take
care that it goes no further. I will as soon as
possible send him away to a situation at a distance.
I did hope,' he continued, with a heavy
sigh, ' that when he returned from his unfortunate
exhibition in London he would have
applied the knowledge of the world he had
learnt there to better purpose ; but he has
proved himself a self-willed, undutiful boy, and
must be dealt with accordingly.'

I would not have you send him away on
my account,' said Jesse.'

1 It will not be on that alone,' said Sir Edward.
' I have myself not been an unobservant
witness of his general behaviour since his
return, and though I am so little satisfied with
him, yet, for the respect I feel for his father, I
shall make it my duty to see that he is not

cast uncared for upon the world. I will write
to a gentleman in the north to provide him
with a situation, and keep a friendly eye upon
him for a year or two.'

1 I trust he will have a sharp master said
Jesse, ' who will keep him to his work, for his
conceit is insufferable.'

You should not let so small a matter anger
you.'

1 I feel a little ashamed of it myself,' said
Jesse, ' so I will say no more about him. Ah ! '
he continued, 'here comes Oliver, galloping
along like a Saracen on his war-horse.'

Rather like a lady in a gentle canter,' rejoined
his father, ' though I think, upon the
whole, he is in the way of improvement.'

'Very far advanced in it,' rejoined Jesse.

1 You will now take him with you to meet
Smith, while I go and finish my letters.'

I hope I have not worried you ? ' said
Jesse.

No, I have enjoyed my stroll with you very
much.'

As soon as Sir Edward had left the diningroom
for their walk in the shrubbery, the old
steward said to his son, —

George, I think I have stopped indoors too
much of late, so I will go out and take a little

walk. This dining-room work tires me more
than ever, and I don't feel very well, but if Sir
Edward asks for me, you need not tell him I
am out of sorts, or he will be dosing me as he
does Mr Oliver. '

1 If you are not well, you ought not to go
out alone,' said his son. ' You know you told
me the other day that you would not leave the
Hall again without a companion ? Why not let
one of the men go with you ? '

1 He would only tease me about something I
don't care to listen to. I will take my stick,
and if I don't feel all right, I will come in
again.'

I think it is a pity you do not give up your
dining-room attendance ; you know every one
would be pleased if you did.'

And you amongst the rest ? ' said the old
man.

Yes,' said the son, ' as I see it tires you
very much, and I am afraid every moment you
are there one of the footmen will topple you
over.'

Will they topple me over ? ' said the old
steward. ' I should like to catch them attempting
to do so, the poor, penniless rascals. Do
you want them to kill me that you may get my
place and my money ? '

No, nothing of the sort,' said George good-naturedly.


1 Then, why do you keep telling me that I
should stop quietly in my room, when you know
I should fret myself to death there ? '

It is only to keep you from hurting yourself,
or being hurt by others.'

1 Who dare hurt me ? ' cried the old man,
getting very angry. ' Do you think that because
I am not able to knock down a fellow, I
am to be toppled over and — '

1 Father,' said George, ' no one would try to
injure you ; but while you are not able to walk
without your stick or some one to lean upon,
you must see that you are in danger of being
run against by the men.'

Let them run against each other if they like,'
was the quick retort ; 4 but they had better be
careful they don't run against me.'

I will tell them to be careful,' said the
son.

Better mind your own business, and leave
me to take care of myself.'

4 I did not wish to make you angry,' said
George.

Angry ! ' retorted the old man, ' Who said
I was angry ? I only want you and everybody
else to understand that I will not be put out

of my place in the Hall, until I am ready of my
own free will to go

Leaving the Hall with the help of his stick,
the old steward made his way direct to the
cottage of Mrs Brown. He had something on
his mind that he wished to speak to her about ;
but at that time it was destined not to bespoken.
On reaching the door he found the
woman there doing the rough work, but Mrs
Brown was not at home.

1 Where is she gone ? ' he asked.

To see Mrs Smith, who has a sick child.'

Children are always sick or giving trouble
one way or other growled the old man. 'What
is the matter with it ? '

1 It was stung with a wasp this morning was
the reply.

'Stung with a wasp!' he said contemptuously;
is that all ? '

The sting of a wasp is very painful, sir.'

4 Take care,' cried the old man, ' there is one
on your window now. What are you about ?
Don't go near it. You will drive it out upon me

While he was speaking, the woman made an
attempt to catch it with her handkerchief, but
failing, the wasp gave her no time for a second
attack, but fled out of the door, as if intent on
settling on the nose of Lea.

1 Whisk, whisk cried the old man, turning
about like a top and whirling his handkerchief
over his head. ' Come out, come out,
and drive it away, or I shall be stung to
death.'

1 Hallo, grandfather,' sounded a voice in his
ear. ' Why, what are you doing ? Dancing
without music'

1 A wasp, a wasp,' cried the old man. ' Can't
you see it.'

Yes,' replied Philip, ■ but if you are quiet it
will not hurt you.'

Quiet ! ' roared the old man, still whirling his
handkerchief round his head, ' I would as soon
be quiet by the kitchen fire sitting on an open
barrel of powder. Oh dear ! oh dear ! will
you not drive it away ? '

I will do something better than that,' said
Philip, as he struck it to the earth with his hand,
and put his foot upon it.

■ Are you going to the Hall ? ' panted out
the old man.

1 I am going by it,' said Philip.

1 Then lend me your arm, for that wasp has
made me as weak as a rat.'

I think it had taken a fancy to your nose,'
said Philip ; ' but I would not then frighten you
by saying so.'

I am not easily frightened,' said the old man*

1 I have long known that by the way in
which you keep order in spite of anything that
is said against you.'

1 Who says anything against me ? '

c No one in my hearing,' said Philip, 'or I
w r ould knock him down ! '

Thank you,' said the old man. ' It does
me good to hear you speak like that. The
under ones want some knocking down, they
are all so lazy. There will soon be no one
to do the work, and then we must all starve,
I suppose.'

You will not be likely, grandfather,' said
Philip.

You think I have money, but I am very
poor.'

By the side of the road along which they
were passing, the stump of a tree presented
to Philip the opportunity of saying to him, —

Grandfather, do you not think it would bea
good thing for you to sit down and take
a rest before you get too tired ? '

1 1 am not tired was the sturdy reply ; ' only
I have a little touch of lumbago to-day, and
that makes walking rather awkward.'

You are not in a hurry, I suppose, so you
can have a good long rest here.'

1 Don't you want to be going ? ' asked the
old man.

No,' replied Philip ; ' I'm off duty now.'

Why, I heard Mr Jesse say they were going
out with their guns this afternoon.'

Where ? ' asked Philip.

Oh, I don't know ; but I daresay somewhere
down by Smith's place. Oh ay, and it is
your place too ! Don't you find it rather dull
down there ? '

I Yes, and I am tired of it,' said Philip ;
'and I have been thinking, grandfather, that
I would ask you to help me to get back to
London again.'

You did not do very well on your last
visit,' said the old man, looking askance at his
grandson, to see how he would take the allusion
to his late trouble.

I I fell into bad hands then ; but I shall
know better next time, if you will advance mea
trifle for the trial.'

1 Ask your father for the trifle.'

1 I have,' replied Philip ; ' but he says he
cannot spare me another shilling.'

1 I don't believe him,' said the old man ;
4 but if he is poor, it is his own fault. He is
always giving something away.

But you have been more careful.'

1 Have I ? Well, I suppose I have a little
in hand ; but look at your strength and mine,
and then tell me if you think I ought to help
you or you me. But how much do you want ? '

1 Enough to take me to London and keep
me there for a few weeks.'

1 I am sorry I cannot help you.'

I would return it with interest.'

Interest ! ' rejoined the old man. ' Oh yes,
of course you would think of that, but where
is your security ?'

My word of honour.'

1 That's not business. But would your fatherlike
you to go ? '

Will you give him your opinion,' said Philip,
if he asks you if it is right I should idle my
time away here ? '

He is too fond of his own opinion to
listen to me.'

1 I think ten pounds would do, if you could
oblige me.'

1 Now, suppose I could find ten pounds,
would your father be answerable for its return
with interest ? '

If he would not, you will have my word
of honour,' said Philip.

Is that all?' said the old man. 'Well, I
will think about it'

1 When will you decide ? ' asked Philip.

'In a day or two. But we must be going
now.'

'And if there is any shooting going on, I
must £0 too.'

1 thought you said you were off duty ? '

So I am ; but let us go, I will see you
to the door.'

'Thank you,' returned his grandfather; ' but
I will not trouble you any further. I have mystick
and I can now get along very well alone,'
saying which, he hobbled off towards the Hall,
leaving Philip in considerable doubt whether
he had gained anything by his unusual complaisance.
' Patience, patience,' he muttered ;
1 I shall break down after all, if I am not very
careful. Sir Edward has something in his
head about me, I know ; but I will have no
more of his patronage, since I am made to
feel that it is bestowed on me in acknowledgment
of the faithful services of my father, a
servant — nothing better than a domestic servant.
I hate myself for being the son of such
a time-serving creature.'

It would be difficult to analyse the state of
his mind as he bent his steps rather hesitatingly
towards the keeper's house. When he
left his bed that morning he had persuaded

o

himself that he would go very coolly to work
upon the business before him. In spite of
his ambitious thoughts, he could not disguise
the fact from himself that he was in love with
Miss Montag. The jealous pangs that shot
through his heart spoke to him but too plainly
of the fact. Would she ever listen to him, or
was she in love with another ? That was the
question he must have answered !

Yes, he had left his bed that morning resolved
to put an end to his doubts. For some
days Mrs Smith had been more than usually
obliging, while Miss Montag appeared less
cold and reserved, though he could not help
feeling that she threw every obstacle in his
way to prevent him from securing a private
interview with her. Not a word had passed
between them relative to their encounter on
her return from the little tea-party.

After loitering in and about the house to
obtain the desired interview, he muttered, ' I
shall go mad if I stop moping about here all
the day. I will go and have a good long
walk ; and see if I can get rid of my tormenting
thoughts.'

It was then, while pursuing his walk across
the park, that he was seen by Sir Edward
and Jesse, and that he afterwards met his

grandfather at Mrs Brown's door. On leaving
him and returning to the keeper's house, the
opportunity he had been so long waiting for
was now unexpectedly presented to him. He
found Miss Montag sitting alone at work and,
as far as he could see, no one near.

Mrs Smith having done all she could to
allay the pain in her child's face from the
sting of the wasp, had, by the advice of a
friend, taken him to the doctor in the village.
Miss Montag did not see Philip until he was
too close upon her to permit her to leave the
room without being absolutely rude to him,
as it would seem, without cause.

1 What ! all alone, miss ? ' said Philip as he
entered.

'Yes,' replied Miss Montag; 'Mrs Smith
has taken little Georgie to the doctor, but I
am expecting her back very soon.'

I thought, when I went out, the doctor
must see him,' said Philip, as he seated himself
by her side. ' And where is Mr Smith ? '

In the preserves, I believe.'

'Alone?'

4 No ; Mr Oliver and Mr Jesse, with Jasper
and Dixon went with him ; but they have not
been long gone, and if you wish to join them,
the sound of their guns will*guide you.'

But I do not wish to join them,' said Philip,
1 I would much rather stop here with you and
talk to you of something I have had on my
mind for a long time. You remember when
you were coming home from your tea-party
that I met you ? '

1 Yes, I remember.'

I wanted to speak to you then, when that
fellow Dixon frightened you away.'

1 He did not frighten me,' said Miss Montag.

Philip bit his lip, but continued, — ' I wanted
to tell you, Miss Montag, that you had my
happiness in your keeping, and that my future
would depend on the answer you gave me to
my declaration that I loved you.' As he
spoke, he sprang up from his chair to the
no little alarm of Lizzie, who rose also, but
did not speak. ' Oh, Miss Montag,' he continued,
' do not be alarmed, I am not going
to be rash and speak hasty words that I may
afterwards be sorry for. Only tell me that
you do not reject my suit, and I will be
satisfied.'

'You will not ask me to decide at once,'
said the agitated girl.

1 If you cannot accept me now,' cried Philip,
you will never. You have seen some one
else you prefer to me.'

Xo one but yourself has asked me such a
question ; but I cannot decide now, and your
father — '

1 My father ! ' cried Philip, ' what has he
to do with it ? Pray, leave him out of the
question. Do you think I need ask his consent
that I may marry you ? '

1 That I cannot say ; but for myself, I must
consult my brother, and I shall feel I am in
duty bound, as I cannot speak to Sir Edward
Harewood myself, to get my brother or Mr
Smith to speak to him for me.'

1 And why should he be spoken to ? ' asked
Philip.

You know he has been very kind to me
and my brother.'

I have always heard that it was Lady
Harewood who took charge of you. Sir
Edward has only carried out her instructions,
and cannot interfere with your choice. Give
me but one smile to keep hope alive and I
will wait. 1

■ I dare not deceive you,' said Lizzie, ' for
until I have consulted my friends I cannot
bid you hope.'

Then you love another ! ' exclaimed Philip.
1 Why do you seekT^o disguise the truth ? I
will know the man.'

vol. 1. o

1 You seem unaware,' said Miss Montag
warmly, ' that you have no right to speak tome
in such a manner.'

1 You force me to do so,' retorted Philip.

1 I must not forget my duty to others,' said
Lizzie.

1 Your duty ! ' cried Philip, ■ is, of course,
to take care of yourself in the best way you
can.'

Had there been no one to take care of
me besides myself when I was left motherless
in the hands of strangers, I should, I fear, have
fared but poorly. But let us not talk of our
obligations to others, but act as if we felt
them.'

1 And give up our chance of happiness to
the will of others ? '

Yes, if our duty requires it,' replied Miss
Montag.

1 Whatever duty may require,' cried Philip,
I care not. But do as you say. Take time
and consult your friends. I will wait your
answer ; but as you value the life of another,
let it be to the point, for I will not be longer
trifled with

And saying that, he hurried out of the room
in an uncontrollable passion.

EFT to herself, Miss Montag, resuming
her work, strove to compose
her thoughts and be as quiet
now she knew the truth as when she
only suspected it. But the task was too much
for her strength. In spite of all her endeavours
to be calm, her pulse would beat with
unwonted energy, and her fingers tremble so
that she could scarcely hold the needle in
her hand. She rose from the chair and went
to the window, hoping rather than expecting
to see Mrs Smith on her return with the
child from the doctor.

But all was still and quiet without. Neither
Mrs Smith nor any other human being was
in sight. Then a sudden fear seized upon her.
Might not Philip return. She knew he was in
his room. She had heard his door slammed
to immediately after he left her. Suppose he

should return and use violence to force her
to comply with his wishes ? What could she
do ? Suddenly she rushed to the door, and
in an instant locked and bolted it.

Then looking anxiously round the room asher
fears grew upon her, she began to place
all the furniture she could move before the
door and window, to render his re-entrance
as difficult as possible. For sometime, however,
it appeared her precautions were not
needed. All was still in his part of the
house. Gradually she became a little less
excited, and sat down, earnestly hoping that
she would soon be delivered from her voluntary
imprisonment by the approach of someone
to the house.

Hearing footsteps on the gravel without,
she for a moment thought relief was at hand.
But she was bitterly disappointed when, on
peeping between the things she had placed
before the window, she saw the dreaded
Philip within a few yards of the door, with
his face pale as death, and his lips compressed
closely together, as if bent on some
terrible purpose. For a brief space he
stopped, and looked cautiously and searchingly
around. Then he moved towards the
door, and she heard the latch rise responsive

to his touch, but the double barrier within
prevented the door from flying open as it
doubtless otherwise would have done.

After one or two more futile attempts with
the latch, he muttered, —

She has turned the key upon me, but I
must see her, or at least speak to her. Our
affair must not be left as it is. I have let her
see too much of my mind to leave her, without
in some way or other accomplishing my purpose.
I must quickly do my best to make her feel
that, after this day's work, it will be to her interest
to acknowledge me as her lover. But if
she has placed herself beyond my reach, I must
be very submissive — beg her to pardon my rashness,
and not think too seriously of what I said
in my excitement arising from her coldness.'

Satisfied that the door was closed against him
after gently knocking, he called out in as calma
tone as he could command, —

Miss Montag, please open the door and
speak to me.'

I can hear you here said Lizzie timidly.

I cannot bawl out what I wish to say to
you,' cried Philip, ' and if you will not unlock
the door, I shall be tempted to force it open.
Will you let me in ? '

1 No,' returned Lizzie ; ' until I am assured

you are in a better temper than you were when
you left me a few minutes since.'

4 You made me angry,' said Philip, ' and I
want to tell you why. Will you open the door?'

No ;' replied Miss Montag resolutely ; ' not
until there is some one on the outside more
than yourself.'

Philip hearing this, and knowing that he had
no time to lose, tore up a paving-stone from the
path, and lifted it above his head as if with all
his force he was going to dash it against the
door, and thus force an entrance, when a restraining
thought crossed his mind, and caused
him to hesitate for a few seconds, and then to
return the stone to the place from whence he
had taken it.

I am not yet quite prepared for extremities,'
he thought ; ' a broken door will leave me no
room to excuse myself for what I have done.
I must get in by gentle means, or say I am
very sorry for being so passionate, and give up
the battle for the present.'

Miss Montag, who had from the window seen
his action with the stone, and expected every
minute to hear it crash against the door, was
greatly relieved when she saw him restore it to
its place on the path. Why he did so she
could come to no other conclusion than that it

arose from the fact of his having seen some one
coming; towards the house.

Cheered by the thought that she had now
nothing further to fear from his violence, her
defiant spirit left her, and she was prepared to
listen to anything he had to say in excuse for
his late conduct. She had no wish that what
had just passed between them should be talked
of in the village or at the Hall. She would
blush to know that her name was mentioned in
connection with his. She knew that she was
and had been dependent on the bounty of
others, and that there might be no hope for her
that she would ever rise to any position in the
world higher than that held by the wife of a
gamekeeper.

Still she shrank from any avowal of what she
could or what she wished to do, and therefore,
on her part, was prepared to come to terms with
Philip, if it could be done without her yielding
up her defensive position, until she was assured
of her present safety.

Philip having discovered that he could not
prudently attempt to gain his point by force,
went serpent-like to work, to accomplish it by-cunning,
or to repair the damage he had done
to his credit by his outburst of passion.

1 If you will not open the door,' he said, ' I

hope you will listen to me and believe what I
say, when I tell you that I am very sorry if I
have offended and frightened you. If I should
say it all meant nothing, I should lie, for I
cannot help loving you, however unworthy I
may be of your notice. But if you will pardon
me for my rashness this once, I promise you I
will never repeat the offence. Can you say you
will pardon me, and not expose me to Mr and
Mrs Smith or my fellow under keepers? If you
can, I will wait patiently for your answer to my
more serious question.'

1 If you will now go away and leave me to
my work in quiet, as Mrs Smith will expect to
find me on her return, I will do as you wish.'

She was pleased to. get over her difficulty on
such easy terms, while she resolved that no
chance in the future should give him an opportunity
of ever finding her alone again.

Then I will go away directly,' said Philip ;
but I should be very glad if you would first
shake hands with me in token of your forgiveness.'


'Can I trust you ?' asked Miss Montag.

Yes,' he replied eagerly, ' as you can trust
your heart with its own secrets.'

In the course Miss Montag took, she trusted
rather to herself than to him. From the window

she had just seen Mrs Smith, with her child in
her arms, coming towards the house. With
nervous hands she hastily replaced the furniture,
and stood prepared to unlock the door,
as soon as she could hear the footsteps of her
deliverer.

Philip, hearing her busily employed within,
finishing with the driving back of the bolt,
jumped to the conclusion that his victim was
fairly caught. But to make sure that there
would be no one to interfere with him, he once
more cast a searching glance around, when, to
his dismay, he saw Mrs Smith within a few
hundred yards of the house.

Without a moment's hesitation he slipped
away to his own place, took out his gun and
went off. Her sudden appearance had taken
him so much by surprise that he could not
throw off his diabolical triumphant look, and
meet her with a smiling face. He did not,
however, escape her notice, but as there was
nothing strange in his going out with his gun,
he did not excite her curiosity.

This, no doubt, was partly due to her anxiety
about her darling boy. In answer to the eager
inquiries of Lizzie, she said the doctor had
commended her for coming to him, as the sting
of the wasp had produced a very painful and

serious wound, which would require not only
medical treatment, but great care on the part
of the nurse. ' He is to go to bed directly, and
if you will take your work and sit with him, I
shall be very glad. It is very unfortunate the
servant is out holiday-keeping to-day.'

1 You know said Lizzie, ' you can safely
leave him with me, while you are busy preparing
the tea for the others.'

Thus the late scene passed away without
leaving any mark behind, save in the minds of
those who had been immediately concerned
in it.

While Miss Montag sat by the sick child,
musing over the late occurrence, Philip, scarcely
conscious of what was passing around him, was
making his way in the direction the reports of
the guns were guiding his footsteps. He had
neither wish nor patience to control his feelings.
He knew that they were desperate, and pointed
to a fearful future. When young men, cursed,
it maybe, with tempers and dispositions like
Philip, commit some crime or rash act which
sober-minded men tremble to think of, their
friends endeavour to find excuses for them,
and when all fail, would fain shelter them from
the consequence of their crimes on the plea
of insanity, and they are comparatively happy

if they can substantiate their claim to such
a plea.

But Philip cared nothing for what his friends
might think of his actions, further than as he
could use their thoughts to his own advantage.
But he had no friends, at least so he was resolved
to think. ' I am a fool,' he thought, ashe
pushed his feet through the dead leaves and
dry twigs that lay scattered in his path. ' Yes ;
I am a fool to let that girl get such a mastery
over me. Could I but once bring her to reason,
I would soon cure her of her indifference to me,
or her partiality for another. I wonder if she
knows how I can hate. It will be well for her
if she does not invite me to show her.

1 But how could she look with anything but
contempt upon a child of a servant, which they
say I am, and which I don't believe. There
must have been a mistake somewhere, or I
should not feel as I do. What have I of the
servant in my nature ? Let it be that I am
from the flesh and blood of a servant. Is my
spirit from the same source ? If Sir Edward
thought so, why did he not leave me to grovel
in the dust with my fellows ? Why was I sent
to school, and taught to feel and act like a
gentleman ? Was it just to please his own
fancy, or was it that he saw I was possessed of

a spirit that did not come from my so-called
father? In either case, he is answerable for
what he has done.

1 But what has that to do with my love for
Miss Montag ? If I were to settle down herewith
her, I should be no better off than a servant,
and yet she cannot see the sacrifice I
am ready to make for her. Give up all my
ambitious thoughts, and proclaim myself her
and my master's slave all the days of my life.
Was that a sacrifice not worth her acceptance ?
She says no one has put the question to her
that I have, but she would not say she did not
love another ; but she does, and I know the
man, and he shall know I do.'

While these and such like thoughts were
rushing madly across his brain, he came unexpectedly
upon the shooting party, who, having
finished their sport, were on their way back to
the keeper's house. To his annoyance, they
all appeared in excellent spirits. Everything
had passed off well, and they were returning
with several brace of birds. Even Oliver was
pleased with his work, for he had fairly brought
down a pheasant in the midst of his companions,
besides a partridge he had secured, when only
Jasper was with him.

The pleasure of a shot with Jasper was all

DO

that he required. For the credit of killing the
bird he did not care a pin, while Oliver was so
little careful about the pleasure of firing, that
he was never happier than when he could
transfer it to another. He was able to join ina
laugh at the expense of Dixon, who had, in
his eagerness to secure a pheasant which had
fallen mortally wounded into the branches of a
tree that overhung a shallow pool of water,
trusted to a rotten branch for support, and
fallen all of a heap, as Jasper said, souse into
the water.

It was a sharp struggle with him for a few-seconds,
as in his fall he struck his head against
another branch, and knew little of what had
happened until dragged to the bank by the
united efforts of Smith and Jasper. Then he
was quickly on his legs again, and shaking
himself like a Newfoundland dog. But instead
of bringing out again his dripping clothes to
their full shape, as the dog would have done
his hairy coat, he only displayed the more
plainly the effects of his moving accident. In
his fall, as he passed through the branches of
the tree, grasping at each by the way to arrest
his progress, the branches had in turn done
something very like grasping at him in return,
so that his clothes, which had seen better days,

fell with him into the water, tattered and torn,
in which state they appeared fluttering around
him as he stood shaking himself on the bank.
Where his cap was no one could tell, but it was
generally supposed to be in the mud at the
bottom of the pool.

Jesse, seeing Dixon looking with a woebegone
countenance at his dilapidated condition,
whispered to him that he had some old clothes
at home he would give him, and a cap to replace
the lost one. Dixon therefore felt he had no
cause to regret his mishap, and, wet as he was,
joined heartily in the laugh against himself.
Jasper was particularly merry at the poor
fellow's appearance, until told by him that if he
thought it such fun, he would take the first
opportunity that presented itself of letting him
have a taste of it himself.

When Philip met the returning party, and
heard of Dixon's fall into the pool, he whispered
in his ear, —

4 It is a pity they took any more trouble about
you than they did about your cap. You could
not have found a nicer place to lie down in, or
one that would suit you better.'

They had fallen behind the others, and Dixon,
not seeing any particular humour in his words,
said, —

1 What do you mean ? Would you have left
me to be smothered in the mud, rather than
have dirtied your shoes to get me out ? '

I had not the pleasure of seeing you there,'
said Philip, 'so I can't say. But the world is
an ill-natured place.'

You are an ill-natured, conceited puppy,'
retorted Dixon, growing very warm, despite his
wet clothes clinging to his body.

I would advise you,' said Jesse, turning and
speaking to Dixon, ' to run away home as fast
as you can, and change your clothes. You
will not forget to come to me in the evening.'

I No, sir ; thank you,' said Dixon, and
scampered off.

'The fool,' thought Philip. 'He does not
yet know whom he has to deal with. He
has been making himself very agreeable to his
young master, I suppose, to put me in the
background.'

There is an outlying wood,' said Smith to
Philip, ' that has, I think, not been looked to
to-day. I wish you would run round and see
that all is right there.'

I I suppose you mean Black Wood ? ' said
Philip, in a surly tone.

Yes.'

Very well. I will go round that way,' and

without further ado he moved off in the direction
indicated.

If you will go on,' said Jesse to his brother,
1 I will overtake you before you reach the Hall.
Take your game with you. Oh, you have it,
I see,' he added, looking toward Jasper, who
had the pheasant and partridge in his hand.

Yes,' replied Oliver, ' you know I like to
show what I have done, and I have been successful
to-day.'

I think you are improving very much,' said
Jesse, ' and will soon be able to challenge me.

Shall we show them to Sir Edward ? ' asked
Jasper.

'Of course,' said Jesse, 'and any one else
you may meet with.'

Then he slackened his pace, and added to
Smith, —

1 I don't want to appear curious about the
relationship that exists between you and your
helpers, but I cannot help saying that I think
Philip treats you with but little respect'

He is rather strange, sir,' replied Smith.

'And positively rude,' added Jesse, 'when
out with you. I hope he behaves better at
home ? '

He is a little conceited,' replied Smith, ' but
my wife says, she thinks he means well, though

he does not get on very well with his fellow
under keepers.'

I am sorry that you have been troubled with
him,' said Jesse.

4 I am always pleased to do anything to
oblige Sir Edward,' said Smith, ' and when
Philip came, you know he was in trouble about
his London business.'

Yes,' said Jesse, ' but that is all over now ;
and if he grows troublesome to you, you will
do well to remind him of his obligation to
you.'

1 I do not care to have any words with him,'
said Smith.

4 I daresay you are right,' said Jesse, ' as
you will not have him here much longer I think.
I have spoken to my father about him. and he
has promised to find him some other employment
at a distance from Woodfield.'

It will be better,' said Smith ' not to talk
of his going until it is quite decided that he
shall go, or he will become worse than useless
here. I am afraid his learning has not fitted
him for the duty of an under keeper.'

1 Learning can never unfit a man for anything,
is one of my father's favourite propositions,
and he must be right'

But if it makes people discontented with
vol. 1. R

their position in life,' said Smith, ' I am afraid
it does not do them much good.'

That is the abuse and not the use of it
said Jesse. ' The first thing a man discovers
from his learning is, that if he would keep his
mind and body in a healthy state, he must work.
Of what kind the work may be is quite a
secondary consideration.'

But some kind of work is more respectable
than other work,' said Smith. ' Is it not ? '

Yes, in the estimation of silly people, my
father says replied Jesse; 'but since a man
does not order the time and place of his
coming into the world, and can only at best
modify his position by his own exertions, it
surely must appear that, be a man's station
what it may be in life, if he is doing his duty
fearlessly and honestly, he is not to be looked
down upon by any one, or imagine himself that,
because he is poor, he is not to be held in
respect. But here we are at your house, and
there is your smiling wife with her children
ready to greet you with a hearty welcome.
Yours is an enviable lot, Smith. And how is
the little sick man ? ' he asked of the mother.

Thank you, sir said Mrs Smith, ' he has
been suffering a great deal, but when he heard
his brothers come home from school, he could

not be kept in bed, but would be dressed and
brought downstairs again.'

1 And you, like an indulgent mother, would
not set your will in opposition to his,'

I was afraid he would only fret if he was
kept upstairs,' said Mrs Smith, 'and so I let
him come down for a little while.'

May I come in — just to ask him how he
does ? ' said Jesse.

4 We are now going to have tea,' said Mrs
Smith, 'and I don't know if you can find room
to get in.'

'I am not very fat,' said Jesse; 'so, with
your permission, I will make the attempt.'

There had been a time, and not lone since,
when, if Jesse or Oliver had called, the children
would have been sent out of doors to play, and
her husband's tea would not have pressed so
closely on her attention ; but now everything
appeared changed in her management. She
told Smith that his tea was quite ready, and
made a little extra fuss to feet the children
seated.

Surely she thought if the gentleman is possessed
of any delicacy of feeling he will content
himself while in the doorway with speaking to
the child, and then at once going away.

But Jesse's delicacy at that moment did net

prompt him to act in such a manner ; threading
his way through the opposing obstacles towards
the fireplace, where Miss Montag was sitting
with the child in her arms, he took the little
fellow's hand in his, and said, ' Naughty wasp
to sting Georgie.'

The little fellow looked up with tearful
eyes, and repeated, ' Naughty wasp to sting
Georgie.'

There was an empty chair near, and Jesse
sat down, still keeping the child's hand in his
own, and said something to Miss Montag, butin
so low a tone that no one save herself could
hear its import. It was but a simple remark —
that the little hand felt very feverish, but it
caused her to look up into his face, as she
replied she hoped the worst was over, with
such a sweet gentle look, that made Jesse for
the moment feel very happy.

But there were other than loving eyes looking
upon him, for Philip, having deputed the
task set him by Smith to another, whom
he chanced to meet, had followed at a little
distance the shooting party on their return to
the house. He had seen Oliver and Jasper
continue their walk towards the Hall, while
Jesse remained by the side of Smith. ' He is
going home with him,' he thought, ' and I can

guess why he is welcomed where I am scorned.
Of course the son of a servant must give place
to the son of a baronet, though it may be
otherwise. We shall see. I have suspected
he is my rival, and if I can be sure of it, I will
drive him out of my way, or he shall die. I
fancy if Sir Edward knew me as I am, he
would not have me with a loaded gun so near
his darling son.'

When he saw Jesse enter the house, the last
lingering doubt was removed from his mind,
but his intense hatred kept his feelings in subjection
to his will. He walked apparently
unconcernedly on past the window, and as he
did so, all that was passing within came plainly
before him ; but he saw only the two figures
sitting near the fire, at the moment when
Lizzie was replying to Jesse, and looking up
so confidingly into his face.

His gun was loaded. Involuntarily he put it
on full cock and raised it to his shoulder. It
was but the work of an instant, and in the next,
but for a doubt that crossed his mind, the room
might have been filled with suffering and death,
had his finger but ever so lightly touched the
trigger. As it was, the instrument of death
was as suddenly lowered as it had been raised.
Curse on my arms,' he muttered, ' they twitch

about as if I was palsied, and I cannot be sure
of him. The charge will scatter, and I may
but wound him and kill others. I must wait
for a better chance,' and with that he passed
to his own room.

On reaching the Hall Jesse found his father
and Mr Cresswell in earnest conversation about
a communication the latter had received from
his friend in Marseilles ; but as they did not
invite him to take part in it, he, having changed
his dress, went into the drawing-room. He
found Oliver and his sisters there recounting
to each other the incidents that had befallen
them during the day.

Charlotte's account, as usual, related to what
she and Miss Gordon had been doing in the
parish, and although she had nothing to say
worthy of particular notice, she was, upon the
whole, satisfied with the progress of their work.
I think our schools,' she said, ' will favourably
compare with any in the county, but I want to
see our poor men less fond of poisoning the air
with their tobacco smoke than they have been.'

'You would not surely,' said Jesse, 'deprive
the poor man of his pipe ? '

Of the abuse of it, I certainly would,' replied
Charlotte. ' Why, I have heard of cases when
the money that should have gone to aid in the

j

education of their children has been spent on
tobacco.'

1 And beer,' added Jesse.

1 Oh ! ' replied Charlotte, ' that is of much
more consequence. Only let the husband take
to beer, and the wife and children are ever on
the verge of beggary.'

1 I cannot understand how men can like
nasty beer,' said Grace ; ' I am sure I do not,
by the very smell of it.'

But you like a little wine,' said Jesse.

1 Ah ! but that is quite a different thing,'
retorted Grace. ' It does not smell like beer,
and I take but very little of that.'

1 I have but your word for it said Jesse,
with a laugh ; ' but the poor man, I imagine,
rarely gets even a taste of it. So I think,
Miss Grace, you must not go in for keeping
him from his beer, as some people appear to
wish to do, who would have us think it is
nothing more nor less than poison. If you
go in for that, I believe you will a little overshoot
the mark, and do mischief rather than
good. 1

1 I say, with papa, let the poor man have his
beer as cheaply as it can be brewed, and let
him find out for himself how much he can
afford to spend upon it, and how much of it

is good for him. If he will not do that, but
prefers indulging in excess, let him be severely
punished.'

1 Yes,' said Charlotte, ' if you could only get
him to understand his own interest, and make
himself reliant, there would be little left for
visitors like myself to do in the houses of the
poor. And I sometimes think we are in a fairway
of reaching such a happy ending to our
work.'

And do you not always feel so,' said Grace,
I should think if you did not you would soon
get disheartened ; I should, I know.'

4 We are often disheartened,' replied Charlotte,
1 and sometimes almost in despair. But not for
long ; hope again comes to our aid, and we
continue our work, determined with the help
of heaven to succeed. I wish I could induce
you to join in our work,' she said, addressing
Oliver.

1 You would find me only in your way,'
replied Oliver. ' I could never talk to the people
as you and Miss Gordon do, and when I have
any money to spare, you can give it to them
for me.'

But, coming direct from your own hand,
if with only one kind word, they would value
it so much more.'

4 You know,' said Oliver despondingly, ' X^*
more than once have tried it to please you,
but it always ended in failure

Ah ! but, Oliver,' broke in Jesse, ' the state
of affairs is changing a little with us, and if I
am not mistaken, you will soon be able to look
a stranger in the face and not compare yourself
as Tom Thumb with a giant.'

1 I am afraid you are saying what you wish
more than what you expect,' said Oliver.

Nonsense,' said Jesse. 4 You do not think
half enough of yourself, and so Grace would
say if she had seen how you handled your gun
to-day. Yes he continued, half to himself,
4 and that reminds me of something I must not
forget

4 Oh, tell me what it is cried Grace.

Only a promise I made to Dixon,' said
Jesse. ' I suppose Oliver has told you about his
fall into the pool ? '

4 Only a little said Grace ; ' so do, pray, let
us have your version of it.'

Jesse, with a little more persuasion, complied
with her request, and so comical did he make
his account of it appear, that the room echoed
again and again to the sound of their unrestrained
laughter.

HILE the young people were so
happily employed in the drawing-room,
Sir Edward and Mr Cress-well
were deeply engaged on the
subject that had brought the latter so unexpectedly
to the Hall. This had arisen from a
communication which Mr Cresswell had received
from his friend in Marseilles, respecting
his son-in-law, Mr Lyson.

The letter, though brief, proved very important.
It was to inform Mr Cresswell that,
since his last communication, his friend had
met Mr Lyson, who professed to be greatly in
want of money to join a party that was about
to set out on a tour through the Holy Land and
Egypt. I mentioned your name to him, the
letter went on to say, and asked him why he
did not write to you, as he assured me you
would advance the money, if you knew he must

either keep his engagement with his friends, orbe
looked upon as a dishonoured man, whose
word was not to be taken.

4 But,' he said, ' much that he would have to
say to you, would require a long explanation,
and that if he could not raise the money in
Marseilles, he thought his better plan would
be to run over and see you, that you might
learn from him personally by word of mouth
the position in which he found himself placed.
I told him that perhaps it was the best thing
he could do, so I suppose you may soon expect
to see him with you at Downend.'

1 It is most provoking,' said Mr Cresswell.

But do you think he will venture to come ? '
asked Sir Edward. ' Did you not make him
understand that his return without your permission
would cancel your agreement with him
respecting his quarterly stipend, which, according
to his own account, would leave him
penniless ? '

As I have often said,' replied Mr Cresswell,
if I alone were concerned in his movements,
I should deal with him with a high hand. But
it is not so, and while there is only a probability
of his return, I cannot help feeling that the
happiness and peace of mind of Edith are
seriously threatened. I do not think if he

were here under the most favourable circumstances,
he would regain his former influence
over her. But she is naturally so gentle and
forgiving, that I fear his plausible manners,
as I am prepared to hear him say, that his past
life is hateful to him, and much more of the
same kind, that he would prevail on her to receive
him as a penitent, and thereby subject
herself and us to our old unhappy state.'

And if you open a communication with
him,' said Sir Edward, ' is there not some fear
that you will be never free from his importunities
? '

It may be so,' said Mr Cresswell with a
sigh ; ' but of the two evils, would it not be well
to choose the least, and send him the money
he wants now ? '

1 I think,' observed Sir Edward, ' before I
did so, I would telegraph to my friend to discover,
if possible, the names of some of the
gentlemen who are to be of the party for the
proposed tour.'

1 I am afraid,' said Mr Cresswell, 'that would
only be the lengthening out of an unpleasant
matter.'

It will but be the work of a few hours,' said
Sir Edward, ' and it may be the means of your
discovering how far the statement is true.'

I will do as you suggest,' said Mr Cresswell.

'As you cannot expect your answer to-night,'
remarked Sir Edward, ' I will come over to
you early in the morning, if you will provide
me with a breakfast at Elston Court.'

1 You will do me a great favour by taking
the journey upon yourself, for, to speak the
truth, I feel hardly equal to it.'

1 We will take it as settled then,' said Sir
Edward.

From the moment that Philip lowered his
gun after looking in at the window at Smith's
house, a fearful purpose seemed to possess his
soul. When he went to his room, it was not
to throw himself on his bed and weep unavailing
tears, but to prepare for an early departure
from a place which had now become too hateful
for him to live in one hour longer than he
was obliged. With a frowning brow he looked
round the room, then passing from point to
point, he collected such little things of his belongings,
as he thought he could, without inconvenience,
carry away with him.

Having done that, he muttered, ' I will go
and see that stupid old man I have been taught
to call my grandfather, and with or without his
consent get the money I must have, before I
can start. If I can get it from him at once, I

Entranced with a Dream.

may finish here very soon, and be no one
knows where by tomorrow this time. If he will
have me wait, I must try what a little gentle
force will do to help me to what I want.'

As he was about to leave the place, he heard
a knock at his door, followed by a child's voice,
saying, ' Philip, mother says will you come to
tea ? It has been ready ever so long.'

1 I don't want any, tell your mother,' he replied,
in a thick guttural voice.

As soon as he heard the footsteps of the child
pass from the door, he opened it and sallied
forth in an opposite direction to that his little
messenger had taken. He was not in the
humour to speak to any person as he bent his
steps to the private room of his grandfather at
the Hall. Using the liberty that his connection
with the inmates gave him, with a slight inclination
of the head, he passed by the under
servants he met by the way, and entered the
well-known door.

His grandfather, as was his usual custom
before he went to the dining-room to perform
his duties there, had seated himself in his armchair
before the fire and dropped off to sleep.

Philip having decided that he must have
some money, thought he would go very gently
to work, and surprise him into a compliance

with his wish by any amount of flattery he
might find it necessary to use, and \i that would
not do, resort to force.

Closing the door softly behind him, he advanced
a step or two towards the fireplace.
Certain sounds coming from the chair before
him proclaimed his grandfather to be soundly
asleep. That room was the old steward's
castle, and into which his son, who was the
real head of the domestic department, did not
venture to enter without a previous knock for
permission. This had caused the old man to
be a little less careful than he might otherwise
have been in keeping his desk locked and the
key in his pocket.

On the present occasion the intruder, seeing
that the desk was open, his mode of proceeding
underwent an immediate change. Instead
of making a noise to awaken the sleeper,
or sitting down until he should arouse, he
passed lightly and swiftly over to the desk,
and having secured a paper of sovereigns, left
the room as quietly as he had entered it. As
there had been no one to stop his ingress, so
was there no one now in the way of his egress.
His father happening to be in Sir Edward's
room at the time, he passed away from the
Hall without having been seen by horn.

1 Fortune begins to smile upon me he
thought, as he hurried back to his place, which
he entered noiselessly, and then, after making
a sudden clatter, went out and passed round
to Smith's door. The tea things were still
on the table, but the business of eating and
drinking was over.

I thought he said, ' when you sent to me
I did not want any tea, but now I feel a little
thirsty, and 1 will thank you for a cup.'

What a pity you did not come when I sent
to you,' said Mrs Smith. ' I had a nice cup
ready for you then, and now it will be but
little better than water

1 Thank you was the reply ; ' that will do
very well

As he spoke he took a more careful survey
of the room than he had yet ventured to do.
The occupants of the fireplace were gone ;
Jesse to his dinner, and Lizzie upstairs with
the sick child. On the instant he became
very talkative, and very curious to learn all
that had taken place during the afternoon.

1 On my way to the wood you sent me to
he said to Smith, ' I met Jenkins, and as he
was going that way I asked him to look round
the place. I thought that would do as well
as going myself

Perhaps it will said Smith, ' but it is always
better to do what we have to do ourselves than
to hand over our work to another

'Jenkins is a very careful man put in Mrs
Smith, on account of peace.

She disliked to hear her husband at high
words with any one, but she could not bear,
as she often said afterwards, that anything
unpleasant should pass between him and
Philip.

But Philip on the present occasion betrayed
no symptoms of annoyance at the words which
Smith had addressed to him ; in short, he
made it seem questionable if he heard them.
He was very attentive to Mrs Smith, and full
of inquiries about little Georgie; said the wasps
were very troublesome ; that he thought they
were always more lively on a warm day. but
that the heat had the opposite effect upon him ;
that it made him sleepy ; that he was so sleepy
when he was told the tea was ready, that he
thought he answered in his sleep.

How funny said Mrs Smith. ' Billy said
he thought he heard you go out, and you
were asleep on your bed all the time.'

I think you are croinor a little too fast, wife
said Smith. ' He did not say he was on his
bed.'

VOL. I. S

I was though,' said Philip ; ' and asleep
too, I am ashamed to say.'

1 Nothing to be ashamed of,' said Smith.
If keepers can't sleep when they are tired in
the day time, they would find it very hard to
be obliged to be out and wide awake all
night.'

Have you anything in hand for to-night ? '
asked Philip.

No — but we are to go out with the young
gentlemen in the morning.'

That evening passed away with its usual
harmony at the Hall, but Sir Edward appeared
thoughtful, and at times a shade of care and
sadness would come over his features. From
whatever cause this might arise, a close observer
could have seen that it received no
encouragement from him, but that, on the
contrary, he strove to appear very cheerful.

The tongues of the young people had little
rest. Their minds were full of the doings of
the bright world in which they lived, and kept
them actively engaged in conversation until
the hour for retiring arrived.

When Sir Edward went to his room it was
not to enjoy, at least for awhile, the blessing of
sweet repose. Mr Cresswell's visit caused him
considerable uneasiness. Old thoughts of

his disappointment recurred to his mind with
a fearful distinctness, so that he almost realised
them as belonging to the present. Though
nearly twenty years had been numbered with
the past, the gulf that separated him from his
college days seemed but a little span which he
could leap over in an instant.

He felt that he was in the presence of one
he had called his friend, and into whose ear he
had poured secrets he had intrusted to no
other. He could fain believe that his friend
was not changed ; that the Lyson of his youth
was now the Lyson of his middle-age. But it
could not be — for, alas ! how different was the
fact. Had he learnt more from Mr Cress-well's
present communication than he knew
before ? No ; but for some reason which he
could not define, his knowledge impressed the
great change that had taken place more strongly
on his mind.

From the first hour of Lyson's falsehood
declaring itself in the matter and manner of
his gaining the hand of Edith, Sir Edward had
purposely closed his eyes and ears, as far as he
was able, against any and every chance of hearing
or seeing anything that could remind him
of one so base and faithless, and in a great
measure he had succeeded.

It is true he was on the most friendly terms
with Mr Cress well, who was so nearly connected
with him in the past ; but, for obvious
reasons, that past was never alluded to by
either of them in a way that could recall its
bitterness, unless when, as in the present instance,
it was forced upon them.

Whenever Edith came in person visibly
before Sir Edward, or mentally in his mind's
eye, he strove to think of her as a child, when
he could call her his dear sister, and kiss and
clasp her to his arms as a saint might an angel.
He would not — he dared not, think of her as in
after years, when the true nature of his love
was revealed to him. To think of her in such
a way would be, if not maddening, destructive of
all the better instincts of his nature, and therefore
he made it the business of his life to keep
such thoughts in abeyance.

Had his passion been declared to Edith, he
felt that he could never have met her again as
of old. Their mutual knowledge of the fact
when it was too late to make their knowledge
of it only a source of pain and bitterness of
spirit, must have kept them apart for ever.
But the truth being confined in his own breast,
and she being absolutely ignorant of it, made
that which would have been impossible, not

only possible, but very desirable for their
general happiness.

Why, then, after these many long years,
should he again be disturbed ? Why, instead of
going to bed after bidding his children goodnight,
did he for more than an hour pace up
and down his room, while thoughts of past and
present mingled themselves together in his
brain without order or guidance ? ' I am
grieved for poor Edith he thought. ' Her
father has been doubtless greatly disappointed
and perplexed, but hers is the entire wreck of
an innocent life.' At length, feeling that his
thoughts did not point to any satisfactory conclusion,
he retired to rest with the intention of
being early in the saddle the next morning, on
his way to Elston Court.

Sir Edward was not alone in his wakefulness
that night. The old steward, before he left his
sitting-room, as his custom was, examined the
contents of his desk to see that he had placed
everything in order, and especially to assure
himself that his money was safe. At first he
went about his task as a mere matter of form.
He was alone, but had any one been near to
observe him, he would have witnessed a gradual
change creeping over his countenance. He
moved his money and papers about at first,

as if in search of something that could not be
far off. Then his action grew quicker and
nervous ; then he suddenly stopped and looked
thoughtfully round the room. After a few
seconds he resumed his search by emptying
his pockets one by one with a jerk out on to the
table, still the something he was in search of
evidently did not make its appearance. Then
he went back to his desk, and passed its contents
once more carefully through his hands.

It is very strange he muttered — ' I had two
parcels of sovereigns, and now I can find but
one of them — where can the other be ? I have
not left my room a moment unlocked since I
saw them here, and I don't think I have been
asleep much to-day, and even if I had, who
could have come in and stolen them ? No, no ;
they must be here somewhere ; but I suppose
I must leave them till tomorrow. Though I
can't find them now, I daresay I shall find them
fast enough then.' Coming to this j satisfactory
conclusion, he huddled all his papers back into
his desk, muttering, ' I am too tired now to put
you in order, but I will see about you betimes
tomorrow morning.'

And he was up early, but, to his great
disgust, to little purpose. The daylight of
the morning helped him no better to the sight

of the missing packet than the lamp of the
previous evening. Had he not feared that
there was still a chance of his having overlooked
some corner or place into which the
parcel had crept, he would have announced
his loss to Sir Edward before he set out on his
journey to Downend ; but that fear kept him
silent, and he saw his master off without uttering
a word of the perturbation of his soul.

■ It would be bad enough to lose his money ;
but it would be much worse,' he thought, ' if he
made a great noise about it and then had to
confess that it had not been lost, but only mislaid.
It would make him the laughing-stock of
every underling in the Hall, and he could not
stand that,' so he went to work again with his
search, and of course with as little success as
before.

At length having assured himself beyond the
possibility of doubt that the packet was not in
the room, and that he had not carried it out, he
summoned his son to his aid, and explained the
matter as far as he could to him. Having done
that, he added, —

1 Now, you think you are very clever, just
tell me if you can where the money is.'

1 Are you quite sure you have searched every
place V inquired his son.

Yes ; every place where it is possible I
could have put it, or I should not have been fool
enough to send for you.'

4 Will you allow me to examine your desk ? '

No, I will not ; the money is neither in the
desk nor in the room, that I am sure of; and
nearly as sure that there is some rascal about
the Hall who has a false key to my door.'

1 You do not leave your desk here of
a night ? '

'No, I have it carried upstairs before me to
my bedroom.'

I can scarcely think,' observed his son,
1 that any one would attempt to get in with
a false key during the day. And you say you
had two lots, and you only miss one. Do you
think a thief would leave the one and take the
other ? '

I don't think anything about it. I know he

did;

1 But you were here all the time the door was
open. Did you drop off to sleep, do you
think?'

1 If there is no other way to account for the
disappearance of the money, perhaps I did.'

'Then-we will question the men who were
about at the time, and see what we can learn
from them.'

A very little inquiry sufficed to show that
Philip was seen by more than one going
towards the steward's room.

1 Send for him to come to me,' said the grandfather.
' I can manage him alone, I think. The
rascal, if he took it.'

It was not long before Philip was ushered
into the old man's presence.

You needn't stop,' he said to his son, who
had returned with him.

1 Now, Philip,' he said when they were alone,
'you came in here yesterday when I was asleep.'

1 That's news to me,' said Philip. ' Who saw
me come in ? '

More than one man saw you near the door.'

Outside or inside ? ' asked Philip.

1 Now, Philip,' said the grandfather, ' when
you were a child I let you do almost as you
liked with me ; but you are no longer a
child now, and I will not put up with your
impudence.'

Nor will I with any one's ill-temper,' retorted
Philip. ' Tell me when you were asleep, and
then I will try and remember where I was at
the time.'

It must have been,' replied the old man,
1 just before Sir Edward's dinner hour.'

Then that's lucky for me,' replied Philip,

'as I can bring two or three people to swear
that I was asleep in my own place at that time.
Now, say I had your money, and take me before
Sir Edward, and see what he will say to you.
But even if I was here, and took your ten
sovereigns — I told you before I wanted them
suppose, when I took them, I took also some
of your old papers you used to be so choice
about ? '

1 What old papers ? ' angrily inquired the old
man.

Philip saw his advantage, and did not let it
pass without notice.

You reminded me just now,' he said, ' that
I was once a child. Did you forget that a
child has eyes and ears with which he may see
and hear what he does not then understand,
but what have their meaning in after years ?
Did I ever tell you that you used to say funny
things when you were asleep and dreaming in
your chair by the fire ? '

1 Did you take the money ? ' cried the old man.

'Yes, I did,' said Philip, 'but I have not yet
been to your papers.'

1 Keep the money said the old man, trembling
with excitement, ' and say no more about
my papers, they are not worth much. Are you
going away directly ? '

1 Perhaps yes, and perhaps no,' returned
Philip. ' You will hear of me if I go, and seeme
again if I do not. Do you wish me to stop
any longer now ? '

Not a minute ; if you are ready to go ? '
was the reply.

'If I should ever want a little more assistance,'
said Philip, ' I may expect it from you.'

Do you wish to send me to the workhouse
? '

1 No,' said Philip, 'and I am not likely to
get you there if I do,' saying which he made a
sarcastic bow and left the room. His father
met him on his way out, but he received no
further notice from his ungracious son than
some muttered words about the weather, as he
hurried past him.

1 Philip, Philip ! ' cried his father, ' will you
not stop and speak to me ? I wish very much
to have a little conversation with you.'

1 Can't stop now. Speak to you another
time.'

1 You are very heartless ! ' said his father.

Not half so heartless as I mean to be, and
you may go and tell Sir Edward what I say,
if you like, and get me hanged ? ' and with
that he disappeared.

Returning to the keeper's house he found

the family at breakfast. He sat moodily down
in his usual place, but he ate little. When the
meal was over, he managed to get up to the
side of Miss Montag. Mrs Smith saw his object
was to speak to her, and acting on her well-formed
plan, sent the children out of doors,
and went herself over to the other side of the
room to speak to her husband.

Philip seized the opportunity presented to
him, and in a whisper said, —

Have you my answer yet ? '

I cannot say yes,' replied Lizzie.

1 Then I settle with you to-day,' he hissed in
her ear, ' and if you will not be the keepers
wife, I will save you from becoming the mistress
of the keeper's master.'

Then he turned and spoke to Smith.

Poor Lizzie was so much surprised and
confounded that she could not utter a word in
reply, but trembling as with an ague, she left
the room.

I do not understand you,' said Smith, in
answer to something he had heard. ' You do
not mean to say that you are going to leave us
at a minute's notice ? '

1 Yes, I'm off for the train directly. I am
of no use here, and if I am, I can do better
somewhere else.'

Well, it is your business and not mine,' was
the reply ; — ' nor yours either,' he said, as he
saw his wife about to whisper something into
Philip's ear. ' Let him do as he pleases.'

I suppose he will,' said Mrs Smith, ' but I
think it is a pity. Does your father know you
are going ? '

Smith, seeing the frown gathering on Philip's
brow, said angrily, —

1 Do, wife, trouble yourself with your own
business, and leave Philip to his ?'

1 Well, I can't help saying it's a pity,' retorted
Mrs Smith.

Don't quarrel about me,' said Philip. ' I am
off at once. I have got my few traps together,
and if I leave anything behind, you are welcome
to it. I suppose you and the gentlemen
will be in the woods this morning ? '

'Yes,' said Smith; 'and what shall I tell
them about you ? '

'Gone off to London; good-bye.'

About ten o'clock Oliver and Jesse, accompanied
by Jasper, met Smith and Dixon near
the house. The news of Philip's departure had
reached them at the Hall, but though it occasioned
them no sorrow, it was far different with
poor Lea, the father of the self-willed youth.
In proportion to the ingratitude of the son, the

affection of the father appeared to increase.
From a few angry words from the old steward,
a horrible fear took possession of his soul, that
he was entering on a course that would lead
him on to destruction.

He would make one more attempt to save
him. He would go down to the keeper's house
before he could leave, and entreat him to stop,
at least until Sir Edward's return. On reaching
the place, and learning from Mrs Smith
that his son had left, his spirit sank within
him. She knew he was gone, but she could
not say in what direction, though she thought
he had taken a short cut over the hill, as she
had heard him say he was going by an early
train to London.

The father stopped for no more. He knew
the intricate private path that led to and over
the hill, and instantly set out for it in the vain
hope, if not of overtaking his son, at least
seeing him in the distance. Without meeting
any one by the way, he arrived breathless at
the summit ; but his wistful eyes met with
nothing but blank disappointment as he gazed
around. What more could he do ? Was he
not helpless to control in the slightest degree
the movements of his son. Convinced that
such was the case, he sat hopelessly down, and

covering his face with his hands, gave unrestrained
vent to his tears.

After sitting there for some minutes, he rose
and was about to descend into a valley by which
he could reach the Hall without again passing
by the keeper's house, when he saw the sportsmen
scattered abroad, beating across the valley
as if in search of game. Then, coming along
to an open space in the wood, he saw another
man. He could not distinguish who it was,
but hope whispered that it might be his son,
though if what he had been told was true, he
by that time would have been near the station,
as he stood intently watching his movements,
he saw one of the shooting party approach the
spot, and the other man raise his gun to his
shoulder, and cover him.

Then he saw the gun lowered and the threatened
man pass out of range. It was but the
work of a second or two, and the father stood
as if transfixed to the earth. Could he have
heard the muttered curse that broke from the
man's lips as he lowered his gun, he would have
understood only too well the scene that was
passing before him. 'Curse you, I thought you
were your master. How came you drc^s^d up
in his clothes to save him from my revenge ?
But he shall not escape.'

1 I am sure it is Philip,' thought the father,
'and I may yet save him from a dreadful crime.'
Then he hastened down to the opening of the
wood; but he found no Philip there, and, to add
to his perplexity, he saw the opening extended
to but a very little distance, and there was met
by a thick entanglement of underwood, bushes
and brambles. He came to a standstill, and
knew not what to do. He could see no trace
of any one having lately passed through the
bushes, and for him to attempt to leave the
open, would only add to his perplexity.

While he stood undecided how to proceed,
he saw Mr Jesse and Dixon in the valley on
his side of it, and a third man not far from them,
moving stealthily from bush to bush, getting
nearer to them at every step. He pressed the
bushes and brambles back with his left hand,
while he carried the gun by the barrel in his
right hand, as much out of sight as he could
get it behind him. At the moment a hare
startled from its form, ran into the valley, at
which Jesse fired, but missed. Then a louder
report rang through the woods, Dixon had fired,
and having secured the hare, disappeared with
it from the open.

Lea stood rooted to the spot, with his eyes
almost starting from his head. He had seen

what Jesse and Dixon had not dreamed of.
He had seen the third man, when apparently
bringing his Qfiin forward to the shoulder, become
entangled in some brambles, and stru^lin^
forward to save himself from falling, disappear
from view, when the sound of a shot from his
gun mingled with that of Dixon's, left only a
curl of white smoke to mark the place where
the man had fallen.

As soon as he had recovered the power of
motion, he hastened in the direction of the
smoke, and then found a man apparently in the
agony of death, and that man was, as he had
feared, his own son.

end of vol. 1.

VOL. I.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

F. V. WHITE & Co's SELECT NOVELS.

Crown Sco, cloth, Ss. Od. each.

TnE Following Volumes of the Series are Now Ready,

And can be obtained of all Booksellers in Town and Country, and at

all Railway Bookstalls.

MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence
Maeeyat.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs. Eiloart.

JOHN BULL says: — "Any reader who wants a good story
thoroughly well told cannot do better than read * The Dean's Wife.' "

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Mar-eat.



SCOTSMAN says : — " Deserves to be ranked as the most artistic and
altogether the best work of fiction its clever and prolific author has yet
written."

TWO MEN AND A MAID. Bv Harriettt Jay,

Author of "The Queen of Connaught," Ac.

GRAPHIC says: — "Compared with the former works of the
authoress of ' The Queen of Connaught' this novel must be pronounced
second to none."

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.
LIFE says : — " ' Sweetheart and Wife' is a love idyll, skilfully painted
in the midst of many people and m . described by one who

writes with that very rare attribute of the modern novelist — knowledge
of, and familiarity with, the society she pictures."

PHYLLIDA. By Florence Marryat, Author of
My Sister the Actress," "A Broken Blossom," &-C.
COURT JOURNAL says .— '" Phyllis' is decidedly one of the
best novels of the season."

BARBARA'S WARNING. By the Author of
Recommended to Mercy 1

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR 2s. NOVELS.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat,

Author of " My Sister the Actress," " Phyllis,"
Love's Conflict'* &c, &c. In picture boards, 2s. ;
post free, 2s. 4d.* .

SCOTSMAN says : — " Deserves to be ranked as the most artistic and
altogether the best work of fiction its clever and prolific author has yet
written."

JOHN BULL sayst — M A really charming story, full of delicate
pathos and quiet humour, pleasant to read, and pleasant to remember."

SYLVIA'S HOME JOURNAL says:— "This is an inexpensive
edition of one of the most charming, if not the most charming, of
Florence Marryat's works. There is not a dull page in the whole
book."

LLOYD'S says: — "*A Broken Blossom' is a very brightly and
tenderly told story."

Also ready, uniform with the above,

MY SISTER THE Actress. By Florence

Marryat, Author of " Love's Conflict," " Phyllis,"
How They Loved Him," &c., &c. In picture boards,
2s. ; post free, 2s. 4d.

JOHN BULL says :— " * My Sister the Actress' is the best novel we
have had the pleasure of reading from the pen of Miss Florence
Marryat."

COURT JOURNAL says :— " Will be read through with avidity."

COURT CIRCULAR says :— " ■ My Sister the Actress' is infinitely

above the average run of novels A skilfully told and remarkably

interesting story which will add to Miss Marryat's reputation."

SCOTSMAN says :— " The tone of the book is distinctly wholesome*'

DAILY NEWS says :— " It is both clever and amusing'

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES.

MY Connaught COUSINS. By Harriettt
Jay, Author of " Two Men and a Maid," " The Queen
of Connaught," &c. 3 vols.

Entranced WITH A DREAM. By Richard

Rowland, Author of " Fishing in Deep Waters."
3 vols.

BELL And THE DOCTOR. By T. Sharp.
8 vols.

LOST IN THE CROWD. By the Author of
Recommended to Mercy." 3 vols.

FAIR FACES AND TRUE HEARTS. By the

Author of " Margaret Mortimer's Second Husband."
3 vols.

DAILY TELEGRAPH says :— " It is a well-written novel, fall of

interest, and not devoid of pathos The characters introduced

are all well drawn, the tale has a sufficient air of reality about it, and
altogether the romance is one which should enhance the reputation of
its writer materially."

PUBLIC OPINION says :— " A well-written novel, full of dramatic

interest The plot throughout holds the attention of the reader

to the end The characters are well, and in some instances even

powerfully, drawn."

ALL AMONG THE BARLEY. By Flora
Haytee. 3 vols.
MORNING POST says ;— " It is a well-written and interesting tale."

HOW THEY LOVED HIM. By Florence
Marryat, Author of " My Sister the Actress'* " A
Broken Blossom," &c. 3 vols. Second Edition.

Athenaeum says :— " Mrs. Lean has written a stronger book than
she ever wrote before."

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES.

There FAIR DAUGHTERS. By Laurence

Brooke, Author of " The Queen of Two Worlds," &c.
3 vols.

Spectator says:— "This is a novel which shows real literary
skill and no small acquaintance with his craft in its author. 5 '

ATHENAEUM says :— " Mr. Brooke has told well what he had to
tell, and has produced three readable volumes, natural, entertaining,
and fairly artistic. . . . ' Three t Fair Daughters' is a pretty and a
prettily-written tale."

Court CIRCULAR says:— "Much as we liked Mr. Brooke's
former work, his last book infinitely surpasses it in every way. From
the first chapter to the last the attention of the reader is enchained."

QUEEN says : — "A vein of pleasant humour and lively fancy runs
through this story from beginning to end."

COURT JOURNAL says : — " Laurence Brooke is a brilliant writer."

SCOTSMAN says : — " There is not a dull page in the whole three
volumes."

MORNING POST says :— " In furnishing light, pleasant reading
and drawing lively pictures of modern society, Mr. Brooke has few
rivals."

A LOVELESS SACRIFICE. By Ina Cassius,

Author of " Guilty without Crime." 3 vols.

WESTERN DAILY MERCURY says :— " It is a cleverly-compiled
novel. The characters, which at first are light and sketchy,
gradually grow in depth and significance, so as to produce lightness
and force as well as sufficiency. The witty conversations, the epigrams,
not unbounded with what is sympathetic aud noble, impart a life and a
reality into the novel which are at once pleasant and enjoyable."

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR NEW NOVELS AT ALL LIBRARIES.

MY LADY CLARE. By Mrs. Eiloart, Author
of " The Dean's Wife," " How He Won Her," " Some
of Our Girls," " Just a Woman," " St. Sedes," &c,
<fec. 3 vols.

DAILY TELEGRAPH says :— " The interest is maintained with
undeniable force and skill."

SPECTATOR says : — " Mrs. Eiloart may be congratulated on having
written an extremely readable novel."

COURT CIRCULAR says :— " Mrs. Eiloart has once more produced
a very capital and interesting novel."

SUNDAY TIMES says:— "A clever and interesting story. The
characters are skilfully painted. A novel worth reading."

WAS HERS THE FAULT? By the Author of
"A Cruel Secret," " Wooing a Sweetbread," &c. 3 vols.
QUEEN says t — " There is much cleverness in the story."
ACADEMY says :— " The book is very readable."

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard. 3 vols. Second Edition.

WHITEHALL REVIEW says:— " The story from first to last is
attractive, and cannot fail to command wide favour. . . . There is,
indeed, throughout the whole of the story a most unusual power, net only
of language but of imagination, and the tender pathos, which is
introduced in no laboured fashion, adds a charm which it is difficult to
describe, but impossible for the reader not to appreciate."

COURT CIRCULAR says:— "There is a genuine flavour of the
old-fashioned romance in it which is too frequently lacking in what
may be termed the latter-day novel."

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

POPULAR ONE VOLUME NOVELS.

THE PRIEST'S BLESSING. By Harriettt Jay,

Author of " Two Men and a Maid," " The Queen of
Connaught," &c Reduced in price from 10s. 6d. to
3s. 6d.

(Dedicated to the Right Hon. W. E. Foresee, M.P.)

ERA says « — u Told with much pathos and power."

SATURDAY REVIEW says : — " We can say for ourselves that we
have read its three hundred pages with unfailing interest."

DAILY TELEGRAPH says : — " Intimate knowledge of the national
character is shown by the writer, who inscribes her book to Mr. Forster
in earnest and somewhat impulsive language."

DARCY AND FRIENDS. By Joseph McKim.

Crown 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

PUBLIC OPINION says : — " The description and dialogue of this
tale are exceptionally good, and we have no hesitation in saying that
the present tale is of high quality and indicates an amount of appreciation
of human character on which we can only give the most
favourable verdict."

THE TWO VICTORS. By E. Befell Benjamin.

Crown 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

JOHN BULL says : — " We shall not disclose the plot, but leave our
readers the pleasure of unravelling it for themselves, merely saying that
the story is well told and of a healthy tone throughout."

AMICO'S LITTLE GIRL. By Miss Montgomery

Campbell. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

COURT JOURNAL says :— " The world of art, both of music and
painting, is charmingly explored in 'Amico'sj Little Girl,' and much
agreeable information concerning both is conveyed by the sojourn of
the different personages in Italy and Germany."

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

MISCELLANEOUS PUBLICATIONS.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF FRED.
G. Burney, Col. Commanding the Royal Horse
Guards Blue, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." In
Picture Cover, Is. Post free, Is. 2d.

POEMS AND LYRICS FOR IDLE HOURS.
By Charlotte A. Peice. Post 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d.

POEMS. By Mrs. C. B. Langton. Cap. 8vo.
Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s.

UNCLE GRUMPY, and other Plays for Juvenile
Actors and Actresses. By R. St. John Coebet.
Crown 8vo. Cloth, 2s. Post free, 2s. 3d.

LIVERPOOL DAILY POST says :—" A pleasant little work, which
will be a valuable acquisition to boys and girls in holiday time. The
plays are bright and humorous, and, as set forth on the title-page, maybe
easily learned, easily acted, and easily mounted,"

DUNDEE ADVERTISER says:— "As a book of parlour theatricals
it is admirably suited to its purpose."

UNCLE ANTONY'S NOTE BOOK. By Mary
Almost. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 2s. 6d. Post free,
2s. 9d.

SCOTSMAN" says: — "Miss Beaumont has produced a volume of
charming little stories for children, full of genuine pathos and dealing
with subjects and incidents such as young readers can appreciate."

HOUSEHOLD CHEMISTRY FOR THE NON-chemical.
By A. J. Shelton, F.C.S. Crown 8vo.
Limp cloth, 2s. Post free, 2s. 4d.

ADVICE TO A SISTER. Limp cloth, 2s.

THE DECLINE AND FALL of the BRITISH
EMPIRE. By Lang-tang. In wrapper, 6d. Post
free.

P. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

IN THE PRESS.

THE JUVENILE LEAD. By Florence Marryat,

Author of " My Sister the Actress," " A Broken
Blossom," &c. 3 vols.

FRIENDS AND LOVERS. By Annie Thomas,
Author of " Dennis Donne," &c. 3 vols.

MOLLIE DARLING. By Lady Constance

Howard, Author of " Sweetheart and Wife." 3 vols.

A NOBLE NAME. By the late Mrs. Buxton
and W. W. Penn, Authors of " Jennie of the Prince's"
and " Bondman's Holiday." 3 vols.

THE TOWER GARDENS. By Lizzie Alldridge,
Author of " By Love and Law," " The World She
Awoke In," &c. 3 vols.

A NEW WORK OF FICTION. By Mrs. Eiloart,

Author of " My Lady Clare," &c. 3 vols.

THE PRICE SHE PAID. By F. Lee Benedict,
Author of " St. Simon's Niece," Ac. 3 vols.

JACK FORRESTER, THE HARROVIAN. A

Romance. By Laurence Brooke, Author of " Three
Fair Daughters," " The Queen of Two Worlds," &c.
3 vols.

ON DANGEROUS GROUND. By Miss Edith

Stewart Dreary. 3 vols.

IN THE HAVEN. Bv Miss C. G. Hamilton,

Author of " After a Dark Night the Sun." 3 vols.

F. V. White & Co., 31, Southampton Street, Strand.

"L I E) Mary

OF THE
U N Diversity
or ILLINOIS



R792e
V.2

v^

A NOVEL.

BY

RICHARD Rowland,

AUTHOR OF 'FISHING IN DEEP WATERS.

IN THREE VOLUMES.

VOL. 11.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C

1883.

wall Rights reserved.]

Crown Svo, cloth, y. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready:—
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress" is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — yo/m Bull.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wife." ' — John Bull.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

A really charming story, full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember.' — John Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

Compared with the former works of the authoress of " The Queen of
Connaught," this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour.' — Whitehall Review.

PHYLLIDA. By Florence Marryat.

'"Phyllida" is a novel of which the author may be justly proud.' —
Morning Post.

BARBARA'S WARNING. By the Author of ' Recommended
to Mercy.'

COLSTON and son, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

CHAPTER I.

^

HE telegram had not arrived at Elston
Court when Sir Edward Harewood
dismounted from his horse in the
presence of Mr Cresswell, who was
at the door ready to receive him.

After a few words had passed between them,
Mr Cresswell said, —

When we made our arrangements last evening
respecting the telegram, I forgot that the
answer arriving here directed to me miijht raise
the curiosity of my wife and daughter, and lead
to unpleasant questions. To avoid which I
gave your name as the person to whom the
answer was to be sent. Had the idea occurred

VOL. II. A

to me before I left you, I should have sought
your permission first'

Then I am glad It did not occur to you,'
rejoined Sir Edward, ' as I could only have
looked upon It as a piece of needless formality.'

Should It reach you,' said Mr Cresswell,
in the presence of my wife and Edith, you
will, if you please, treat it as a private matter.'

A smiling welcome awaited Sir Edward at
the door of the dining-room. The mother and
daughter, without knowledge of the reason,
were fully alive to the fact that Mr Cresswell
had been Impatiently awaiting the coming of
his friend, which, on his appearance, added
to the pleasure they always derived from his
visits.

While the breakfast was in progress, the
expected telegram was placed in Sir Edward's
hand.

For me ? ' he said, as the servant presented
it to him. ' Will you permit me,' he added to
Mrs Cresswell, as he prepared to open it. ' Oh,
I see,' he murmured, half aloud. ' Yes, it shall
be attended to. No answer at present,' he said
to the man, who Alas waiting at the door. ' It
is curious to observe,' he continued, as he put
the paper into his pocket, ' the changes that
are insensibly stealing over us. It is but a

very few years since, when such a missive as
this made its appearance at the door of a house,
every one within was thrown into a painful
state of excitement. Now, on the contrary,
it is looked upon quite as a matter of course,
and creates little more curiosity than a letter.'

I think you rather overrate your case,'
observed Edith. ' A telegram is perhaps ina
fair way of becoming the common thing
you have described ; but surely it has not
reached that point yet.'

I shall hold to my statement that it has,'
replied Sir Edward, ' unless you can produce
some proof to the contrary.'

I can only answer for myself,' replied Edith,
and I must confess I should receive twenty
letters with less emotion . than one solitary
telegram.'

But, my love,' observed Mrs Cresswell,
'that may arise from the fact of your having
so few of them.'

I am told,' said Mr Cresswell, ' that in the
great business houses in London nothing is
more common than for them to be sent outby
dozens, and others received in the same
way, with less notice than would formcrl)-
have been given to the despatch or arrival
of a double letter.'

And not much before my time,' observed
Sir Edward.

I will not attempt said Edith, ' to tax my
memory with any such thing as a double letter
or a member's frank. I am content to own I
have heard of them.'

'Your two boys will come over to luncheon,
I trust,' observed Mr Cress well.

Yes,' replied Sir Edward ; ' they were
greatly flattered with your invitation, and
promised to come early.'

'I think,' observed Edith, 'that Oliver is
looking better and stronger than he did a few
months since.'

Poor boy,' said Sir Edward, ' he has been
the great trial of my life. His sad, shy, and
dreamy manner has at times taxed my patience
very severely ; but I agree with you, he appears
stronger than he did.'

In this way the hour of breakfast passed.
A suspicion of the real object of Sir Edward's
visit did not enter the minds of either of the
ladies. They understood that it related to
some private affair which need not excite their
curiosity.

The breakfast over, the gentlemen retired
to the library, and there, in a short time, their
resolution was formed and acted upon with

respect to the business in hand. By the
telegram it appeared that there could be no
doubt about the projected tour by a party of
gentlemen, though, in consequence of the
arrangements not yet being completed, no
names were sent.

You decide, then,' said Sir Edward, ' to let
him draw upon you for the sum required ?'

Yes,' replied Mr Cresswell ; ' it seems the
only way I can free myself from his importunities,
and if it must be so, I can have no wish
to lengthen out the very unpleasant business.'

And you will write to him ? ' said Sir
Edward.

No, I think not,' replied Mr Cresswell. ' I
will send the order to my friend, and beg him
to let him have it. That will give me a little
quiet, I trust, from a troublesome and vexatious
correspondence.'

I trust it may.'

But you are doubtful ? '

I must confess,' replied Sir Edward, ' that I
am not a little so.'

You would have me leave his application
unnoticed ? '

Yes ; or I would desire him to do just as he
pleased about coming to England, but that
nothing he could say would induce me to

make him a more liberal allowance than he
is now in receipt of, though it might occasion
the loss of that

I can only repeat,' replied Mr Cresswell,
what I said last night — that if I alone were
concerned I would act in a very different
manner. But it is useless to talk or vex oneself
more upon the subject ; so, if you please,
we will for the present dismiss it from our
minds, and rejoin the ladies ' — a proposition
that Sir Edward was most willing to agree to,
as any conversation in connection with the name
of his false friend was very disagreeable to him.

Ere the luncheon was on the table, Oliver
and Jesse drew rein at the door of the Court,
and were soon in the presence of the occupants
of the drawing-room.

The usual greeting over, Oliver, at his
brother's request, opened the subject of the
accident that had happened to Philip. Before
he had proceeded far with his narrative, he
was stopped by his father asking nervously
how many of the party carried guns.

All of us,' replied Oliver, ' except Jasper —
that is, Jesse and myself, with Smith and
Dixon.'

And was not Philip with you } ' asked Sir
Edward.

No ; we saw nothing of him till after the
accident ; but Smith told us when we met him
that Philip had given him to understand that
he was tired of his employment, and meant to
set off for London directly.'

And if he had held to his purpose,' observed
Jesse, ' he must have been far away by the
time we heard of his going.'

But he is not gone ? ' questioned Sir
Edward.

No ; as I was just about to tell you, we
found him by the side of the wood severely
wounded.'

Do you mean me to understand that the
youth is dead ? '

He was not when we reached him,' said
Jesse, ' and so as soon as we could we summoned
Mr Saddler to our assistance, and, at his request,
the coachman put the horses to the
brake and took him to the hospital.'

And who went with him ? '

His father,' replied Jesse; 'and I almost
forgot to say,' he added, ' that he begged me to
explain to you the cause of his going if you
should return home and want him before he
could be back.'

This is a sad account you have brought us,'
said Mr Cress well.

You have not told us how you discovered
him, or the nature of the accident,' said Sir
Edward.

Did you not understand OHver to say he
was shot ? '

Shot! — and by whom ?' asked Sir Edward.

We think,' replied Jesse, ' that his gun went
off by accident. Our attention was called to
him by the cries of his father.'

His father !' repeated Sir Edward. * How
came he there ? '

'We cannot tell,' replied Jesse; 'but in
answer to his cries, we hurried In the direction
from whence they appeared to come, and there
amongst the bushes by the side of the wood we
found Philip stretched on the ground, with his
father on his knees by his side, endeavouring
to staunch the flow of blood from a gunshot
wound in his neck.'

Poor fellow ! ' said Sir Edward. * It seems
strange that, notwithstanding the disobedience
and ingratitude of his son, he should be so
greatly attached to him. Did he tell you how
it happened that he was there ? '

No replied Jesse ; * and it did not occur tome
to ask him.'

There seems something very strange about
the Whole affair, according to your report. Is

he not the same youth who gave you so much
trouble by his leaving his father and going to
London some time since ?' inquired Mr Cress-well.


The same, I am sorry to say replied Sir
Edward.

And were you there and saw all that took
place ? ' asked Edith of Oliver.

Yes, I was there,' replied Oliver, with a
quivering voice — ' that is, I was at a little
distance. They did not want me near him.'

But you made yourself very useful,' said
Jesse. ' You ran for the doctor, and when you
had secured his services, you went to the
stables for the brake.'

Sir Edward looked pityingly at his first-born,
but he made no marked observation on his
conduct.

Do you not think,' he said to Mr Cress well,
that I ought immediately to return home ? '

No, I do not,' replied Mr Cresswell. ' If
the wounded man had been left with uncertain
and unskilful attendance, there might be reason
for your doing so, but as it is, the case is very
different, and I shall hold you to your promise
to spend the day with us.'

Sir Edward saw the reasonableness of this,
yet his anxiety was so great to get home that he

left Elston Court an hour or two earlier than
he otherwise might have done.

Oliver, of his own will, never put his pony to
its full speed, and he had on more than one
occasion expressed his annoyance to his brother
when he had urged him to do so, but there
was no escape for him from a hard gallop
on this return journey by the side of his
father.

On reaching home, Sir Edward could learn
little more of the accident than he already
knew. The father of the wounded youth had
not yet returned from the hospital, and the
grandfather professed to be quite Ignorant of
the movements of his grandson.

But I am told he was here with you a short
time before the accident occurred,' observed Sir
Edward.

Only for a few minutes, Sir Edward.'

Did he say anything to you of his going to
London ? '

I think he did, but I can't remember what it
was. My memory is very bad to-day, and the
accident has quite upset me, and I am a little
deaf; and he talks so fast, and always about
some nonsense or other, that I should scarcely
know all he said If I could hear and remember
as well as I used to do.'

The questioning to which Smith was subjected
appeared but little more satisfactory.

You have told me,' said Sir Edward, ' that
the youth left you two hours before the accident
occurred. Had he his gun with him then ? '

I did not see it, Sir Edward.'

But if you saw him leave the house, you
surely must know whether he had it or not.'

I only saw a small bundle in his hand, but
I did not pay much attention to him. He appeared
to be in an ill humour, and I thought
the less I said to him the better.'

Why so ? '

Because, Sir Edward, I know he could use
his tongue very freely, and I did not want to
have any words with him.'

He has not been on very friendly terms
with any of you, I am afraid. Who did you
say were out with you yesterday .^ '

Mr Oliver, Mr Jesse, with Dixon and
Jasper.'

No one else .^ '

No, Sir Edward, my other assistants were
at a good distance from us.'

You are quite certain of that .^ '

Quite, Sir Edward.'

And those you have named were generally
in your sight.'

Yes, Sir Edward, though we were sometimes
hidden from one another by the trees
and bushes.'

You all had guns ? '

Yes, excepting Jasper.'

I do not know why I should not be content
with what you have told me, but I should like
to ask you if your apparent dislike to each
other has ever led to an open quarrel .^ '

No,' replied Smith ; * but his manner has
often been very provoking, — even Mr Jesse has
noticed it.'

Mr Jesse, did you say ? '

'Yes, Sir Edward, only two days since, and
I think he said he had spoken to you about him.'

Did you discover If the gun found by the
side of the wounded youth had been lately
discharged ? '

It had every appearance of It, Sir Edward.'

And you can form no idea of why the youth
was at that time there .^ '

No, Sir Edward, unless what he said to me
about his going was only made up for his own
amusement, and that he intended to come out
and surprise us.'

He knew you would be there ? '

Yes, I told him before he spoke about his
going to London.'

After Smith had left the Library, Sir Edward
sat for some time musing upon the unpleasant
subject that had so suddenly come before him.
Gradually, his thoughts became more serious
and distressing. It was but as a shadow that
the idea first crossed his mind, that the true
account of the so-called accident had not yet
reached his ear. Smith's saying recurred to
his mind, that Philip had at times been very
provoking, and that even Mr Jesse had noticed
it. That he could well believe, as his son had
spoken to him more than once upon the subject,
and had wished him to find some employment
for him amongst strangers, as he did not appear
to value the society of his friends.

Was it possible that a quarrel had taken
place amongst them, and that the shot had
been fired by other hands than by those of
the wounded youth ? He knew Jesse was quick
and impetuous, and that he could ill brook the
empty pretensions of any one, and especially
those of the conceited Philip ; but he had too
much confidence in the rectitude of his mind to
think for a moment that he could be guilty of
a premeditated crime, but what he might have
done on the impulse of sudden anger, was not
so easy to determine. ' Can it be,' he thought,
that something of what I fear has taken place,

and the story of the accident, with all its strangeness,
has been brought to me to conceal a fearful
crime ? '

I will not think of it,' he murmured, as he
rose from his chair and walked nervously up
and down the room. ' The supposition is too
horrible. I must wait until Lea's return for
the solution of the mystery. At present I dare
not, even in thought, pursue the subject further.'

But that night the man, for whom he was
so anxiously waiting, did not return. In the
couse of the evening the coachman drove into
the stable yard, and, in answer to a question
from his master, said, ' I waited, Sir Edward,
some time for him, but I only saw him just
before I left, and then he was so put out that
he could scarcely speak to me. He said his
son was very bad, and he hoped you would
excuse him for not coming back with me. The
doctor,' he said, ' had given him permission to
remain in the hospital, as the case was a very
serious one, and he might perhaps be wanted
in the night.'

The next morning Sir Edward was early at
the keeper's house, unrefreshed and full of
serious doubts. During the night he had
earnestly striven to drive them away, but in
vain. Sleeping or waking they would be present

with him. He knew that if the injury to
the wounded man should prove fatal, a strict
inquiry into every circumstance of the miserable
affair would be gone into. The fact that he
had been on unfriendly terms with all around
him, and if, as his fears suggested, the report
should get abroad that he had died by other
hands than his own, what could he say to
stop the idle talk that would be indulged in ?
Nothing — simply nothing.

The inquiry must go on, whatever it might
lead to ; all that he could do was without loss of
time to make himself acquainted with the whole
affair In all its bearings, as far as he was able.
With this view, he was on his way to Smith
to question him still more closely than he had
yet done.

Disappointment, however, awaited him at the
end of his little journey. The keeper, he learnt,
was out on his rounds, and Mrs Smith had
taken her sick child to see the doctor. He had
met the other children on their way to school ;
but so absorbed had he been In his own thoughts
that he did not even see them, though they had
done their best to gain his attention by their
curtsies, smiles and bows.

Miss Montag and the maid were the only
persons in the house, and Sir Edward having

discovered the fact, was about to turn from the.
door, when the thought struck him that perhaps
he might learn something from them, which
would help to clear up his doubts. Since Lady
Harewood's death, although he had had but
little personal communication with Miss Montag,
he had been very careful to perform the duties
he had then undertaken. He had sent her to
a good school, besides arousing Mrs Gibson's
warmest sympathies in her behalf, so that he
might be assured that she was not growing up
in a state of useless ignorance, and the result
had justified his care. She was now, he saw,
on the threshold of womanhood, and would soon
be fit to undertake the further duties he had
marked out for her as a farmer's wife.

But as his purpose was thus far entirely unknown
to the young lady herself, it could not
in any manner have contributed to her rejection
of Philip Lea, or create any nervousness respecting
it when she was addressed by her
patron. The occurrence of yesterday had given
her a great fright, from which she had now by
no means perfectly recovered. The fear uppermost
in her mind, after she heard that Philip
had been shot, was that he had told some one of
what had passed between them, and that it would
be said she had driven him to commit suicide.

She was sorry to hear of his misfortune ;
but she dreaded, above all things, to have her
name mentioned in any way in connection
with his.

Accustomed as Sir Edward was to call upon
Smith, he created no undue excitement in the
minds of the young people he found in the
house. After hesitating for a few moments at
the door, he said, —

I think I will come in and wait for Mrs
Smith's return. You say you expect her back
very soon.'

Yes ; very soon, Sir Edward,' replied Miss
Montag, as she placed a chair for him and
motioned to the maid, who stood with open
mouth in the doorway that led to the kitchen.

Sir Edward saw the movement, and said, —

No, no, let her remain here ; I may have
occasion to speak to her.'

Miss Montag blushed scarlet, but she did
not reply, while the maid, pulling down her
sleeves and smoothing her hair, advanced a step
or two further into the room.

Perhaps you can give me,' said Sir Edward,
some account of the sad accident that happened
so near to you yesterday.'

I am afraid we cannot tell you anything
new,' replied Miss Montag. ' Mr Smith said

VOL. II. B

he had spoken to you about it, and we know
nothing more than he has told us.'

Have any of the other men been here this
morning ? '

I have not seen any replied Miss Montag.
Yes, miss broke in the maid, * Dixon was

here before master went out

And did he tell you anything ? '

He told me at the back door that it was a
bad job for Philip, and that he was awful
sorry, but that he couldn't make it out at all.'

Not make what out ? ' asked Sir Edward.

How he came to shoot himself there,' said
the maid.

Did he say he shot himself ? *

Yes, Sir Edward, and — *

But he did not tell you so,' interposed Miss
Montag.

Yes, he did, miss, and more than that, he
said he shouldn't wonder if he did it a purpose,
he was such a queer fellow.'

You are talking nonsense,' said Miss
Montag.

Well, miss, '\i I am, I am only saying what
he said.'

Then, I suppose,' said Sir Edward, * he did
not like him 1 '

No, I don't think he did, that I don't'

Sir Edward does not wish to hear what you
think

Just let her tell me why she thinks so said
Sir Edward.

You see said the maid, ' when they are
out by the back door, I often hear the men
talking together, and once I heard Dixon and
Philip talking very loud

Quarrelling, you mean ? '

Yes, and I heard them say something about
knocking somebody down

But there was no fighting ? ' interposed Miss
M on tag.

No,' said the maid ; ' I think they were
both afraid to begin.'

Thank you, that will do,' said Sir Edward ;
I will not keep you any longer from your
work.'

It was no small relief to Miss Montag when
she saw the door close upon the girl. She had
been upon thorns the whole time she was speaking,
in momentary expectation that she would
blurt out something respecting the manner in
which Philip behaved in the house. Happily
the girl's thoughts had not tended in that direction,
and very earnestly Miss Montag hoped
they never would.

But now she was brought face to face with

her great fear. How could she answer her
patron, when he observed, —

Your little maid appears to be well acquainted
with what has passed at the back of
the house, may I expect the same from you of
the front ? '

After a slight hesitation, she replied, —

Perhaps I am not so much interested in
listening to the conversation of the men as she
is. I do not myself remember having heard
any word passing between them that particularly
arrested my attention.'

At this point Mrs Smith returned from her
visit to the doctor. On her entrance, Sir
Edward said, —

I am here, Mrs Smith, respecting the sad
occurrence of yesterday. Can you tell me anything
relating to it '^ '

I am afraid no more than you already
know, Sir Edward,' said Mrs Smith, putting
down the child in a chair ; ' but I can't help
thinking about it. Poor fellow, it makes me
quite miserable ! How it could have happened
I can't make out.'

It was quite an accident, of course,' said Sir
Edward.

I suppose it was.'

You do not think he did it purposely ? '

Well, Sir Edward, I'm sure I don't know.
Sometimes I think he did, but Smith says I
have no business to think so ; but how should
he know any better than I do ? '

How, indeed?' said Sir Edward, ' for though
he may have seen more of him than you have,
he may not have observed as much.'

I don't know, Sir Edward.'

She felt that they were getting upon tender
ground, and in consideration for the feelings of
her companion, she would not say that she
thought he had grown desperate from having
been crossed in love, though the words were
ready on her tongue for utterance.

Shall I take the child ? ' asked Miss Montag.
Yes, do ; please take him upstairs, and
bathe his eyes.'

This was more than she desired, and for
once in her life she unwillingly complied with
the good lady's request. The idea that, as soon
as she was gone, Mrs Smith would speak more
freely about Philip, than she would have done
in her presence, made her tremble so much that
her legs seemed almost unequal to the task of
carrying her upstairs. She had, however,
scarcely reached the topmost step when she
heard the voice of Smith near the house, and
at once grew stronger. She knew Mrs Smith

would not talk over freely of her domestic
affairs in his presence.

I am very sorry, Sir Edward said Smith,

that you have been kept waiting. I did not
expect you down before eleven o'clock.'

I have been well entertained,' was the reply ;

• but I came early that you might show me the
place of the accident before it could be much
changed.'

Ashen they reached the spot, Sir Edward
looked searchingly around. Everything in
the neighbourhood of it served only to confirm
his fears. Besides the dense wood by
their side, the bushes and trunks of the lofty
elms would afford shelter for any one bent on
mischief.

I suppose your assistants are all about their
work this morning ? ' he said thoughtfully.

All but the one on the sick-list,' replied
Smith.

As Sir Edward was returning to the Hall, he
was met by Oliver and Jesse with the intelligence
that Lea had reached home from the
hospital, but quite unable to give a correct
account of what had during the night been
passing near him.

We must leave him to himself for a while,
I am afraid. His only motive for coming back

that we can learn,' said Jesse, ' has been to ask
your permission for his immediate return to the
hospital, to watch over his son.'

Poor fellow ! ' said Sir Edward, ' I ought to
have sent to him the first thing this morning,
to say he might remain there as long as the
doctors would permit him.'

I was going to suggest it to you last night,
papa,' said Oliver, ' and to offer to go myself ;
but I concluded, if it were right, you would
think of it yourself.'

Sir Edward looked at his weak son fora
moment, and then said, —

Thank you ; I wish you had, Oliver.'

The sound of the name at the end of the
sentence left the lips of the father in so gentle
and loving a manner, that the young man
turned away to hide the tears that came
unbidden to his eyes.

Sir Edward, on entering the library, was
immediately followed by Lea.

I am sorry to see you so much distressed
said Sir Edward.

May I go back to him ? ' was the answer.

Oh yes, of course, if you desire to go ; but
you are, I trust, satisfied that your son is
receiving proper attention at the hospitale'

Yes, Sir Edward ; but he is very bad.'

Has he recognised you ? '

• ' No ; he has not yet once opened his eyes.'
Then he is not conscious ? '

The doctors say he is not'

And they think he is in a dangerous state ? '

Yes ; and he may not live till I get back.
Please let me go.'

I am afraid,' said Sir Edward, ' you are
letting your excited feelings rob you of your
judgment. If I thought you could be of the
slightest service there, I would not keep you
here a moment longer, but — '

Oh, Sir Edward,' cried Lea, interrupting
him, ' you know how I have loved my boy.
Can I suffer him to die without being by his
side to commend his soul to God, and say
I forgive him for any wrong he has done
me?'

Do the doctors think there is any chance
of his regaining consciousness '■ ' asked Sir
Edward.

They said it was possible.'

Go, then, by all means. How did you come
back ? '

In a trap from the town.'

The horse will be unequal to the return
journey without rest. The coachman shall
drive you over; and perhaps you and Jesse



would like to go with him he said, turning to
Oliver.

I shall be pleased to go,' said Oliver.
'And I too,' added Jesse.

Then away with you all to the stable,' said
Sir Edward, 'that no time riiay be lost. If
anything particular happens while you are
there, you can let me on the instant have
notice of it. You must not be late home.'

A minute more and Sir Edward was alone,
while his late suppliant, with Oliver and Jesse,
were running to the stable to get the coachman,
with the carriage, on the road as quickly
as possible.

lor Lea. who had always been
less remarkable for the strength
of his mind than the tenderness of
his heart, had during the last few
hours suffered more than any one unacquainted
with such a temperament as his could easily
imagine. For years his son's behaviour had
been to him a source of endless trouble and
bitterness of spirit.

The slightest extra show of affection on his
part to the self-willed, misguided youth, had
only appeared to produce in return a feeling of
undisguised disgust — the more humiliating from
the sneer at the occupation of his father with
which it was accompanied. Still his strong
affection remained undiminished, or rather, it
may be said, to have been ever on the increase,
growing in strength by feeding on the very
obstacles that seemed to threaten its destruction.

It is generally taken as granted that menin
Lea's station of life are not troubled with
much refinement' of feeling ; but whether the
common consent to such a proposition is correct
or not, we will not stop to inquire. It
would doubtless admit of argument, and therefore
it must suffice for our present purpose
when we state the fact as it appeared in Lea,
that, from a child, he had given repeated
evidence that, however lowly his position in
the world might be, he possessed a tender
and generous heart.

For the development of his natural inclination,
he was at one period of his life doubtless
favoured by circumstances which, by his own
skill, he had no hand in fashioning.

On the death of the late Sir Henry Hare-wood,
he eagerly embraced the opportunity
that was then presented to him of entering
into the service of the new baronet, and of
going with him, as we have seen, on his twelvemonths'
tour on the Continent. From his strict
attention to his duties, he very shortly gained
the favourable notice of his master, and was
treated by him with what might be not unaptly
called friendly confidence.

In their journeying in strange countries and
amongst strangers, many incidents occurred

that could not fail to make them feel their
mutual dependence on each other, and awaken
sympathies which might otherwise have remained
dormant. At length the kindly feeling
thus engendered between them became so
strongly marked, that the mere serving man
was the acknowledged humble friend of the
master, though, in the presence of visitors,
their relationship, as the world would have it,
was never lost sight of.

Shortly after his return with Sir Edward
from his tour, he married, and had the misfortune
to lose his wife immediately after she
had given birth to a son. His grief for his
great loss was slightly mitigated when he took
his child in his arms and thanked God that
he was spared to him, happily ignorant of the
unseen future which had now become a fearful
present.

On the instant he resolved that, in as far
as he could, his son should not miss the nursing
and tender care of a mother. A nurse was
found in whom he had full confidence, and
who, as months and years passed away, proved
herself worthy of the trust reposed in her.
On her part, it was not a mere mercenary engagement.
She had buried her own child, and
she then took the little stranger to her bosom

to fill the void place that had been left thereby
her loss. Yet, in after years, by the ingratitude
of the youth, she felt she was but
ill repaid for the watchful care she had so
unselfishly bestowed upon him.

Ere the boy could be well trusted to run
about the house alone, his intelligent countenance
obtained the favourable notice of all that
looked upon him ; and many were the compliments
bestowed upon his beauty which, happily,
he could not then understand, or they might
not have passed him harmlessly by. Too
soon, however, he became conscious that, in
the estimation of those around him, he was
no common child, which, of course, did not
tend to his advancement in unselfishness.

But, as a sad portend to his future career,
it might have been observed that, as he increased
in years, the growth and strength of
his intellect was unfortunately unaccompanied
by moral qualities of corresponding force, and
hence the commendations that were bestowed
upon him for his encouragement to persevere
in his studies, that he might be prepared fora
useful race in life, fell far wide of their aim.

He became proud and conceited, with a
disposition to think that the world was made
for his special benefit, so that he could not

help looking down with contempt upon those
who, from father to son, were content to goon
in the old plodding way for the mere necessaries
of life. At school he placed himself,
almost without an effort, at the head of his
class, and thereby obtained the encouraging
notice of his masters, and, through them, a
greater hold upon the mind of his patron, Sir
Edward Harewood, who was willing, under
any circumstances, to look with favourable
interest upon the boy from the respect he
bore to his father. But the student did not
trouble himself about that. He took every
smile and commendation that was unsparingly
bestowed upon him, as his natural right, arising
from his own personal merit.

In one particular he was doubtless worthy of
pity. His grandfather, the old steward, whose
moral perceptions were none of the clearest, as
his temper was not of the best, appeared with
increasing years to be growing wayward, if not
childish, in his proceedings. Through his penurious
habits with all that related to his own
expenditure, he had for many years been accumulating
money until its care had become a
burden to him.

There was no disguising the fact he was
growing old. He could not keep the knowledge

of it from any one. No, not even from
himself. He could not for many more years
hope or expect to retain the influence he had so
long held in the Hall. Who was to take his place,
and who was to get possession of his money ?
Who, but his son. He had no desire that anyone
other than his son should succeed him
in his office, or take the purse that he had been
so careful to fill. But he clung to life with the
power he held so guardedly in his hands, and
he could not look with complacency on the
man, even though he was his own son, who
was ready to step into his place at a moment's
notice.

Allowing such thoughts to assert their supremacy,
he became very jealous of his son's influence
with their common master, and which
he took no means to disguise from him. This
state of things, much to the son's discomfort,
very shortly after Sir Edward's return from his
tour, unmistakably declared itself. As years
passed on, the old man appeared to take increased
pleasure in annoying his son, and,
unfortunately for all parties, he was not slow
to discover that his most vulnerable point for
attack was through the boy Philip.

The father having observed the growing
self-sufficiency of his boy, deemed it prudent

to be less free with his commendations than he
had hitherto been, and to refuse to supply him
with pocket money, of which he would only
make an ostentatious display, or part with it
for some selfish indulgence.

Seeing this, the old steward kept the boy,
when not at school, almost constantly by his
side, and contrary to his habit and nature, grew
very free with his money, and therefore made
himself appear in the mind of the boy as very
good-natured and liberal, the very opposite of
the careful and cautious father. He never met
him out of doors without having a piece of
silver to put in his hand, even before he could
ask for it, and when in his room he allowed
him to do almost as he chose.

When his son strove to control his apparent
generosity, he would growl out, ' I suppose you
forget that you were a boy yourself once. But
if you do, I don't. You were trouble enough
to me, I know, though you do look upon yourself
now as if you never committed a fault asa
child, boy, or man in your life.'

For some time the son, hoping to bring about
a more Christianly and better state of things,
tried to argue with his father, and prove to him
how injurious it must be to a boy like Philip,
to let him feel that it was scarcely necessary for

him to express a wish to have his wildest fancies
gratified.

You want to make him as tame as yourself,
I suppose ? ' the old man would say ; ' but it
won't do. The boy has too much spirit to comedown
to your level.'

Disheartened and distressed, poor Lea at
length gave up the struggle. He saw that anything
he could say upon the subject, instead of
winning his father over to a more reasonable
mode of proceeding, only tended to confirm him
in his purpose, and make the breach wider between
them ; and therefore while he continued
ever watchful to promote the true welfare of
his boy, he avoided speaking to his father on
the subject in the earnest manner he had
hitherto done.

It is only charitable to suppose that it was
simply old age working upon the weakened
brain of the steward, that made him feel and
act so perversely. For although he was ever
ready to treat his son's arguments as beneath
contempt, or only to answer them by an ill-natured
sneer, he was sorely provoked when
they were discontinued, and he was left to pursue
his own course with the boy unmolested,
with anything more expressive than a pitying
look.

VOL. II. C

When he had convinced himself that his
power of annoying his son through his attention
to Philip was gone, he entirely changed
his behaviour. The boy was no longer welcomed
to his room, and he would occasionally
pass him in the village without a single word,
or even a look of recognition.

Philip felt the change of treatment, although
he could in no wise understand the
cause that had led to it, and the effect it had
upon his mind was most injurious. He looked
upon himself as not only neglected but ill-used,
and that it signified nothing what he
might say or do, as he found he was in the
end treated just the same, whether he tried
to be agreeable or not ; in short, that no
one cared a straw for him, unless it was for
the pleasure of resting him with advice. Then
he resolved that he must fight his own battle,
and trust entirely to his own wits to help
him on in the world.

He did not know that his prompters were
pride and self-will. That in yielding himself
up to their guidance he was laying the foundation
of his building upon the shifting sands
of deception, instead of upon the firm rocks
of honesty and truth.

When, in the after part of his school days,

his father would say to him, ' God bless you,
my boy. I am sure you will do well, for
God is very good to us — he would answer,
Oh yes ; I mean to take care of myself
While, at the same time, he would think,
I don't see what the good God has done
for me. You suppose, I daresay, that he has
been very obliging, and given me a good
father. But how do I look upon the gift ?
Why, that I would rather never have had a
father than the one who seems proud to
show me at every turn that he is an ignorant
lout of a domestic servant. Yes, truly, I
have a great deal, no doubt, to thank God
for, though I cannot see exactly what it is
myself.'

Amongst his fellows at the superior school
to which he was sent to complete his education,
he was constantly reminded of the 
position of his birth. While
one was talking of his father's hunters,
another of his mothers new carriage, and
another of the great deeds his uncle had
performed in the Indian mutiny, he could
not open his mouth respecting any one with
whom his parentage connected him without
prefacing his observation with a lie, or covering
himself with confusion. His god was the

world, and although he was too proud to be
governed by any one in it, he was, perhaps
unknown to himself, immediately under its
influence.

When, through the indulgence of his restrained
and perverse will, he found himself
in difficulties in London, and circumstances
compelled him to call his friends to his assistance,
a change for the better was apparent
in his behaviour. It lasted, however, but
for a short time. His heart had not been
touched ; it was still the abode of selfishness,
and to all intents and purposes he held himself
untrammelled by any conscious scruples
of morality or religion.

Sir Edward's kindness to the youth in
helping him out of his trouble went for
nothing, as he was reminded that it was
done, not for his sake alone, but rather out
of regard for his father. Yet for awhile,
on his appointment to his new office under
Smith, the novelty of wandering about the
grounds with a gun in his hand kept his discontented
spirit somewhat in check.

When alone he would fancy himself the
gentleman that he must inevitably, in the
course of years, become ; look around at the
landscape, and consider what alterations it

would be necessary for him to make to Improve
its beauty, supposing his estate to be
similar to the one he was now employed upon.
But when his fellow keepers were with him
the illusion passed away, and the stern reality
of the present was pressed heavily on his
mind. Their every word and look reminded
him of who he was, and how far he was yet
from the goal of his ambition.

His love for Miss Montag came upon him
as something new, and which his mathematical
knowledge did not help him to understand.
The idea had never before entered
his head that he could care for any one with
a love equal to that he had for himself, or
that he could be influenced by any other feeling
than that of a due regard for his own
personal interest. He had never dreamed
that any young lady to whom he might be
disposed to speak would not be too happy to
welcome his addresses, and such being the
case he was disposed to enjoy his freedom
with them in common, as a young gentleman
might happily do.

When he found himself being drawn within
the influence of Miss Montag 's gentleness, and
she showed no disposition to encourage his
advances, he was surprised and annoyed, and

strove earnestly with himself to subdue his
rising passion. But it was not to be. He
could not refrain from looking at her when
she was present, or have the picture of her
features presented to his mind's eye when she
was absent. Then he became doubtful if she
did not use every means in her power to avoid
being left alone with him. What could it mean ?
Jealousy, as we have seen, came to his aid with
an explanation, and determined him at length
to put in force the scheme which he so utterly
failed in carrying out to a successful issue.

The religious tone of his father's mind had
caused him to look for true happiness in the
right direction, and in the interest of his son all
his energy had been spent to train him up fora
life of usefulness. He cared little about the
kind of employment he should choose for himself
when he was old enough to go out into the
world, and take a part in its doings ; so that it was
healthful to him, and likely to prove beneficial
to others, he would not attempt to influence him
in the choice he should be able to make for
himself.

On taking him to his first school, after he had
passed the infant stage, the only request he
made to the master was, that while he should
be pleased to know that his boy was not overworked,

he trusted that he would on no account
be allowed to fall into habits of idleness. And
again, when Sir Edward proposed to send him
to a superior school, to the great delight of the
youth, he offered no opposition to the plan,
though, from his knowledge of the state of his
son's mind, he had very serious doubts of its
propriety. He knew more of the temper and
disposition of his boy than Sir Edward dreamed
of, but that he might not injure his future prospects,
he was silent.

Very early he had observed what appeared
to him the innate tendency of the boy's mind
to selfishness, but he trusted the careful training
he was receiving, combined with the influence
of a good Christian education, would hold it in
check, till as a man he could exercise his reason
to control it, if not absolutely to cast it out of
his heart altogether. Many times, from his
boy's childhood, he had resorted to correction,
both by word and act, with more or less severity,
to convince him that an unbridled temper,
governed by selfishness, could not fail to lead
even one of the least of God's creatures into
much unhappiness and trouble.

The poor father's doubts about the propriety
of his son's removal to a higher school soon
became apparent in the effect it produced to

show that they had been only too well grounded.
The demon pride accompanied him to his new
home, and these, taking him by the hand, led
him still further from the path of peaceful contentment.
Then, during the school vacation,
when he returned to Woodfield, it became a
common remark of the villagers that he appeared
ashamed of his old friends. However much of
fancy there might be amongst them and the
servants at the Hall, there was none on the
part of the poor distressed father. The knowledge
of his son's increasing pride had come to
him as a sad reality. He had been spoken
to by his son in a manner calculated to wound
him more deeply than as if a dagger had been
plunged into his heart. The one would but
kill the body, but the other tortured the soul.

And this from the child whose welfare he had
studied from his cradle, whose every want had
been anticipated, and every ill that could threaten
provided against. One whom he had loved as
his own soul, and on whose lips he had seen
reflected back, as \i from another world, the
smile of his angel mother. It was hard, very
hard to bear, and yet he had silently borne it
until his heart was nearly broken.

We will not follow the poor father through
the ward of the hospital to the bedside of his

son. Once there, seeing he could do nothing
to alleviate his sufferings, he sat hopelessly
down, and remained' for many hours almost
motionless, eagerly watching for the first sign
of returning consciousness, which he was nevermore
to see. It might require time to finish
the work, but the death-blow had been struck,
and every ambitious thought for ever silenced
in that self-seeking brain.

Oliver and Jesse having performed their task
by leaving Lea at the appointed place, and given
their horses a good long rest, walked back to
the hospital, and there learning that the wounded
youth still lay in the utmost danger, returned
home to Woodfield with the cheerless intelligence.


Little conversation passed between the
brothers by the way. Oliver was never one
to originate a conversation of any length, and
now he appeared to have little or nothing to
say, while Jesse remained almost silent. The
accident seemed to have produced a greater
effect upon his mind than might have been
expected, considering the general buoyancy
of his spirits, and the hopefulness of his
nature.

When they were near home they met one of
the under keepers going along the road with his

gun thrown carelessly over his shoulder. As
they passed him Oliver shuddered, and said, —
I am afraid I shall never take a loaded
gun in my hand again without trembling,
lest I should shoot myself, or some one
else

You need have no fear said Jesse, 'if you
are careful. You must never have your gun
on full cock until the instant you are about to
fire. It is a very simple precaution, and for
want of observing it many sad accidents are of
daily occurrence.*

But one cannot always be so thoughtfully
careful,' replied Oliver. * Very often when I
am expecting I shall soon have to fire, I hardly
know what I am doing.'

You must not speak like that at home,' said
Jesse.

No,' replied Oliver, with a sigh, * I know it
would make my father angry.'

You must endeavour to get the mastery of
your fear,' said Jesse.

I am always trying to do so,' rejoined
Oliver.

Yes,' said Jesse, * and I think you were
going on very well till yesterday ; but now, if I
am to trust to what you say, you are losing
ground again.'

And I am afraid,' sighed Oliver, ' this terrible
accident has made you a little nervous.'

Well, perhaps it has,' said Jesse, in a tone
very different from that which he usually
employed.

PON receiving a report the next
morning from the hospital that the
death of the wounded youth was only
a question of time, — that nothing
short of a miracle could keep him alive but a
few days longer at the most — Sir Edward
mounted his horse and rode over to see the
surgeon, and to learn from him if there was
any chance of the return of consciousness
before the end declared Itself in death.

He felt that it was of the utmost importance
that he should have the deposition of Philip
of the real cause and manner of the accident.
A few words, however, from the surgeon assured
him that there was little or no chance
of his ever speaking again, but that if the
unexpected should occur, he should be without
fail immediately Informed of the fact.

The battle between life and death lasted fora

week. Then came the end, but so quietly
that the father, who still sat by the side of the
bed, knew not the moment when his son ceased
to breathe. While life lasted he felt a glimmering
of hope fluttering about his heart, and kept
to his post, despite the mental and physical
weakness from which he was suffering ; but
when he saw that all was over, his strength
of body and mind alike forsook him, and he
became for a while almost as inanimate as his
son.

When he returned to himself he cried out,
like David of old, — * Oh, my son, my son ! ' and
then quietly left the hospital, unfit as he was, to
resume his duties at the Hall.

The next day but one was appointed for the
inquest. Sir Edward had continued his searching
inquiry into the cause of the accident, but
had in his own mind arrived at no satisfactory
conclusion respecting it. There was still something
strange about it which he could not
understand, and that arose chiefly from the fact
that the father of the deceased youth was reported
as the first to be on the spot after the
fatal shot had been fired.

How came he to be there, and what further
information he could give on the subject. Sir
Edward was most desirous of learning ; but

while the struggle was going on at the hospital
he forbore to question the father, but he could
do so now no longer. He felt that he should
be made acquainted with every particular before
the meeting of the jury, that he might not be
surprised by anything that should come out
before them with which he was not able, if
requested, to give a satisfactory explanation.

All, however, he could learn from Lea was
that he was out for a walk alone, and then
that when standing on a hill he had seen his
son near the wood, and was going down to
speak to him, when he heard the report of a
gun, and ran to the spot where he saw the
smoke coming through the bushes, and where
he was found by his young masters and Smith.

Sir Edward, seeing that the poor fellow was
greatly excited, and that the picture called up
before him was causing him a fearful amount of
mental agony, desisted from further questioning.
He was also partly induced to take the
course he did from his knowledge that Lea
would shortly be questioned by the coroner,
when, if there was any further information
to be obtained from him, it must come to
light.

Although the whole occurrence may, in the
eyes of a stranger, appear altogether but a very

trifling affair, at a time when it is no uncommon
thing to hear of a ship going down to the
bottom of the sea with hundreds of passengers ;
or trains crashing together on the railway, at
the expense of many Ives and much suffering ;
or fires sweeping away almost entire cities ;
or mountains toppling over from their giddy
heights on the dwellers in the valleys below ;
or earthquakes and floods devastating whole
regions of the earth ; — still, in the present case,
there was enough to call together at the inquest
a crowd of the curious, who appear to be ever
on the watch to hasten to the spot where a sad
event has taken place or is to be investigated.

The jury being assembled, and all due formalities
attended to, the coroner in a brief
address placed the case before the court.

As the reader is already acquainted with
most of the particulars to be brought before
the jury, it will not be necessary to repeat the
evidence of more than a few of the witnesses.
The first of these was the surgeon, who readily
confirmed what the coroner had said respecting
the cause of death ; but when he was asked if
the wound was of such a nature that it must
have arisen from the accidental explosion of the
wounded man's own gun, he hesitated to give
a decided answer.

That it was the result of such an accident he
thought was most probable, but, for anything
he could say to the contrary, the gun might
have been discharged by the unfortunate man
himself, or by some one else at a short distance
from him.

Oliver was the next witness called, who
answered briefly to the questions put to him, as
did also Jesse and Jasper.

Smith was questioned closely as to whether
he or any of his party was separated from the
others during the time they were out, to which
he could only reply that they were generally
together, though they might at times
be hidden from each other by the trees and
bushes.

Can you say whether or no it was during
your separation the shot was fired ? '

I cannot,' replied Smith, ' for as far as
I have been able to make out no one heard
it. There was a strong breeze blowing through
the wood at the time, and making a great noise
with the dry leaves.'

When the poor father rose in answer to his
name, his appearance excited universal sympathy.
He was very pale, and held on to the
back of the chair for support. H is eyes were red,
and his lips quivered with emotion, but it was

evident to all present that he was making a
strong effort to appear calm.

You were with your son when the accident
occurred, were you not ? ' said the coroner very
gently.

Not with him, but I had seen him a short
time before.'

Will you tell us where ? '

Near the spot where I afterwards found
him. I had occasion to walk in that direction.
When on a hill, I saw my son down in the
valley, and as I wished to speak to him, I
hastened towards him.'

And you heard nothing } ' said the
coroner.

Yes, I heard the shooting party,' he replied
in a tone of despair.

When you first saw your son, was he quite
alone ? '

Yes, quite.'

And you saw no one else near at the
time ? '

To that question the poor fellow appeared
unable to reply. He became faint, and would
have fallen to the floor had not a gentleman
who stood near supported him. Seeing that
all eyes were fixed upon him, he earnestly
strove to recover his self-possession, and after

VOL. II. D

having sipped a little water from a glass that
was presented to him, he said, —

Before I saw my son, I saw two other
persons in the valley at a little distance.'

Were they together ? ' asked the coroner.
No ; when I first saw them they were some
distance from each other.'
Did they meet ? '

Yes, and then disappeared together.'
Do you know who they were.'
I could not swear to them.'

But you think you know them.'
*Yes.'

Will you tell me their names.'

I think one was Mr Jesse Harewood, and
the other Dixon, one of the under keepers.'

And did you see them again ? '

Yes, almost immediately.'

What took place then ? '

I saw a hare start from a bushes at which
Mr Jesse fired, but did not hit it. Then I
heard a very loud report, and I think Dixon
shot the hare, for I saw him pick up something
from the ground, and with Mr Jesse again disappear
behind the trees.'

As he finished speaking, his emotion almost
stopped his utterance. A horrible dread had
taken possession of his heart that he would

be forced to repeat all that he had seen his
son attempt to do. To declare what he felt
was the truth would be to proclaim his son
to be a murderer, at least in intention, and
not to speak the truth would be to render
himself despicable in his own eyes as long ashe
lived.

His brain reeled under the weight that
pressed upon it, while a dimness came over
his eyes which rendered everything indistinct
before him. It soon became evident that he
was not in a fit state, even if physical weakness
did not prevent him, for answering at the present
time any further questions.

He was led out from the room in a very
helpless state, and for many days afterwards
was a patient suffering from brain fever, under
the same roof where he had so lately watched
by his dying son.

The inquest, however, was not immediately
adjourned. Smith was recalled and questioned
as to the length of time Mr Jesse and Dixon
were out of his sight, but he was not able to
give a satisfactory answer. He could only
reply generally that it could not at any one
time be more than a few minutes. He had
heard the two shots fired spoken of by the last
witness, and he understood that Dixon had

LIBRARY

IIMU/COOITV l\f IiiiKi.-ii

shot a hare, which Jesse also, on being recalled,
confirmed.

Smith was asked if he had reason to believe
that his men were generally on good terms
with each other; but his answers appearing
unsatisfactory, one of the under keepers was
called and closely questioned upon the subject,
and after fencing about a good deal, admitted
that they did not agree very well together, and
further, that he had heard threats of personal
violence used on both sides between Philip
and Dixon, and once he had heard one of them
say the other ought to be shot.

And which one said that?' asked the coroner.

Dixon said the man ; ' but I believe it was
only as a jest.'

Then Jesse was again recalled to know if,
after the two shots spoken of, he and Dixon
continued together until the wounded man was
found.

Jesse could not speak with certainty to the
fact, but he believed they did, as they almost
immediately afterwards joined the others of
their party.

It was a little unfortunate for Dixon that he
was not to be found when his name was first
called by the coroner, which occasioned him
to be passed over, while grave doubts were

^j

rising in the minds of several of the jurymen to
his prejudice as they Hastened to the' evidence
brought out from the other witnesses, so that
when he appeared in the room he was looked
upon by them with a certain amount of suspicion
as to whether the fatal shot had not
been fired from his gun.

The coroner was not free from the doubt, as
was apparent, when on addressing Dixon, he
said, —

Before I take your evidence, I think it right
that I should warn you that as you were one
of the persons last seen near the wounded man,
and that you had not been living on very
friendly terms with him, you need not answer
any questions put to you unless you like, but
that whatever you do say will appear in my
notes, and may at some future time be brought
forward against you.'

Were you in company with the deceased
before he fell ? '

No, I had not even seen him that morning.'

You mean the morning he was shot ? '
Yes.'

We have heard from one witness, who, unfortunately,
was not able to finish his evidence,
that you were seen near him with your gun in
your hand.'

My occupation required me to have my
gun,' said Dixon, ' but whether or no Philip
Lea had any business there with his, perhaps
Mr Smith can tell you better than I can.'

Was he not like yourself, one of the
keepers ? '

He had been, but I was told that morning
he had left his employment and gone to
London.'

This is something new,' said the coroner,
but it does not affect the main question. Were
you on friendly terms with Philip Lea ? '

No, not very, and I don't know any one
that was,' replied Dixon in a careless tone. ' He
thought too much of himself for us, and was
always ready to quarrel with any one who came
in his way.'

Did you ever quarrel with him ? '

We may have had a few cross words together,'
said Dixon in his former tone.

But you did not fight ? '

'No, we talked of knocking each other down,
but we never did it.'

That will do,' said the coroner. ' I will not
trouble you with any more questions at present'

Smith was again recalled, and said it was
quite true that he had told Dixon of Philip
Lea's departure for London.

Then, at the time of his being shot, you
did not know that he was upon the premises ? '

No ; I thought he was in the train for
London.'

But how, then, do you account for his being
where he was found with the gun by his
side ? '

I cannot account for it,' said Smith.

Gentlemen of the jury,' said the coroner,
owing to the breaking down of one of the
witnesses, I am afraid we shall not be able to
finish the present inquiry to-day. In the
course of an hour I must be at another inquest
at some distance from this place. I
must ask you, therefore, to agree with me for
an adjournment for a week. I will not now
make any comment on what we have heard ;
but I may just remark that there are some
parts of the evidence to which we have been
listening to a little perplexing. I, however,
trust that the explanation which may yet be
forthcoming from the father of the dead man,
will prove to your satisfaction that the case we
have to deal with is purely the result of an
accident, caused by the incautious use of firearms.'


The business of the inquest being over for the
day, endless were the comments made upon it

by the crowd that had been drawn together in
and around the place.

I wouldn't be in Dixon's shoes for a trifle,'
said one man to another, * and the best thing
he can do is to make himself scarce while he
has a chance.'

But if he knows no more about the affair
than he says he does said the one addressed,
*' he is not the fellow to make himself scarce.
He knows too well the value of a good name
to run away and leave a bad one behind him

Well, bad or good,' said the first speaker,
if it were my case, I should look to my shoes
and see if they were fit for a long journey, and
keep my hat pretty near the door when it was
not on my head.'

Another said, ' What a way Dixon's old
mother will be in when she hears he is half
suspected of having shot Philip Lea.'

Yes, poor old body,' said another, ' it
would almost frighten her to death no doubt if
she thought there was any chance of his being
guilty, but I know she will not believe it. She
looks upon him as little less than an angel.'

Rather a rough one,' said another.

Not in her eyes,' was the answer.

And so the talk went on until the little
crowd gradually melted away.

Meantime Sir Edward Harewood, avoiding
his old friends as much as possible, and particularly
the coroner, with whom in the present
state of affairs he had no desire to enter into
conversation, set out with his sons immediately
for home, deeply sympathising with poor Lea,
whom he had been obliged to leave at the
hospital.

The doubt that he had not heard a true
account of the so-called accident, was rather
strengthened than otherwise by what had come
out before the coroner. When they had left
the town and were fairly out in the country
road, he remarked, —

I am a little surprised, Jesse, that you did
not tell me that you and Dixon were so near
Philip when he fell.'

'I think, papa,' said Jesse, 'you will agree
with me that I had good cause for my silence
when I tell you that I did not know it
myself.'

You heard Lea's evidence ? '

Yes ; but, until he spoke, I had no idea
of the fact. He appears to have seen all that
passed ; and I look upon it as very unfortunate
that he was not able to finish his evidence.'

You are quite certain that neither you nor
Dixon saw either the father or the son ? '

I can safely answer for myself said Jesse,
and I think I can for Dixon.'

It is, as you say observed Sir Edward,
most unfortunate that Lea was not able to
continue his account of what he had seen.'

I think the coroner was very hard upon
Dixon said Jesse. ' He made me feel quite
angry with him, for I do not believe that Dixon
had anything more to do with the shooting of
Philip than I had.'

I hope I did not say anything to injure
him said Oliver.

I think you scarcely mentioned his name.'

I should be sorry to say anything to injure
him, as he has always been very good and
obliging to me.'

'And always at his own cost,' said Jesse,
in a more cheerful tone than he had yet spoken.
He saw his father looked thoughtful and
anxious, and as he believed it was on account
of his old favourite, whom he had been obliged
to leave behind, he thought it better to introduce
some light subject for conversation with
Oliver than to make any allusion to the painful
subject.

Yes,' said Oliver ; ' he generally has the
worst of it when he comes to help me out of
a difficulty. It was but yesterday he got into

a bog nearly up to his neck, when he was
showing me there was nothing to fear in passing
over it'

I suppose he was too heavy to get safely
over ?' said Jesse.

It was very good of him to go first,' said
Oliver.

I hope,' said Jesse to his father, 'that, notwithstanding
the coroner's speech, you will let
Dixon continue at his work.'

I shall not stop him,' replied Sir Edward.

And can any one else ? ' asked Oliver.

I cannot say,' was the reply ; ' we must
wait to see what turn events will take.'

I hope it will be a quiet turn,' said Oliver ;
and help us very soon to forget this sad affair.'

'And so do I,' said Jesse. * It is quite bad
enough as an accident, without speaking of it
as a murder.'

We must be careful of the use of that word,'
remarked Sir Edward.

I should never have thought of it,' said Jesse,
if it had not been put into my head by the
coroner.'

He only spoke as he did,' rejoined Sir
Edward, ' to make the investigation the more
searching. Depend upon it, he has no desire
to prove it a murder.'

On reaching home they found Mr and Miss
Gordon, with Charlotte and Grace, waiting impatiently
for the news they would bring them ;
for, sad as they knew it must prove, it would
not be the less interesting. For a full hour
it thrust aside all other questions, and particularly
that part of it which related to Lea's
appearance before the coroner, with his sudden
illness and removal to the hospital.

And have you really left him behind you ? '
said Grace to Jesse.

Yes, I am sorry to say we have ; but it
could not be helped.'

Could we not have nursed him here ? ' asked
Grace.

I thought we were to have brought him
back,' said Oliver ; ' but I suppose it is best
as it is.'

1 he old steward made it his business to
hover about the speakers on one pretence or
another to catch up here and there a straw)'
word or sentence, but he did not show the
slightest disposition to ask any questions.
When told of his son's illness, he merely replied,
— ' Oh dear, that is bad ; but I can see
to his work here.'

His manner was strange in the extreme.
He appeared desirous of obtaining all the

information he could by indirect means, rather
than by a simple question.

The excitement of the last few days had put
its mark upon him, though not of the kind that
might have been expected. His general bearing
was a little more nervous than it had been of
late; but at the same time his mental and physical
powers seemed to have had a strong tonic
applied to them by the increase of vigour he
displayed. Had Sir Edward been less engaged
with his own thoughts he might have observed
the change, and complimented him on his improvement,
but as it was, it was passed by him
unnoticed. The young people, however, did
not fail to see and comment upon it.

Why, Mr Lea,' said Grace, on one occasion,
when meeting him, ' upon my word
you are getting quite young again, I do
believe ? '

The times have driven me to it, miss.'

The times ! ' repeated Grace. * What do
you mean ? '

Why, you see, miss, the things that are
happening appear to make all the young heads
shake on their shoulders. I mean the servants,
of course ; and if I were not to look after them
a little sharper than usual, everything would get
out of order.'

Then it is lucky we have some old heads
left,' said Grace, laughing.

Yes, that's just it, miss was the satisfactory-reply.


I can't understand why Dixon is suspected
of shooting Philip ? ' said Jasper to his master.
You know he had no more chance of doing it
than either of us, or Mr Jesse.'

'And I can't understand it either,' said
Oliver.

Why, we were nearly always together,' said
Jasper, 'and when we were not, Mr Jesse was
away as much as any one, and who would
suspect him ? '

No one, of course,' said Oliver.

Then I want to know why Dixon should be
suspected ? ' said Jasper.

I cannot answer you,' rejoined Oliver, ' but
I know I would not for all the world be one of
the jury.'

Oh, I would though,' cried Jasper, ' and I
would say in a moment it was all an accident.'

But if the others would not agree with
you ? '

Then they might disagree.'

But you would have to give in '^. ' said
Oliver.

Would I, though ? ' said Jasper ; ' they

might as well try to make a cat jump through
a hoop backwards, as get me to say a thing
was wrong when I knew it was right

At the expiration of a week the coroner
again met the jury, and although Lea was still
in the hospital, and unable to finish his account
of what he had seen, the inquiry was proceeded
with ; some fresh evidence was produced relative
to the angry feeling that appeared to have
existed amongst the under keepers, which increased
the suspicion against Dixon, and caused
the coroner in his summing up to speak of him
in a very unfavourable manner.

Several of the jury, however, did not follow
his lead. They thought the evidence was not
strong enough to send him for trial, and for
some time it was doubtful if there must not be
another adjournment. The jury were divided
into three parts. One was for bringing in a
verdict of accidental death, the second of misadventure,
and the last of wilful murder. At
length they came to a compromise. It was
known that the sessions were near at hand, and
that the prisoner would not have long to wait
for his trial, and it was therefore agreed that
the verdict against Dixon should be for manslaughter.


CHAPTER IV.

HE verdict of the jury was severely
commented on by the friends of
Dixon, who clubbed their little
means together, that he might
have the benefit of counsel on the day of his
trial. They knew that any other plan they
might adopt to save him must prove futile.
That an attempt to show that he had been
unjustly committed must end in failure, and
that the verdict having been once given, the
only chance there was of successfully opposing
it would be at the trial.

Oliver was greatly surprised at the result of
the inquiry, and as for Jasper, he was furious
and dared not speak of it, but to an old crony
in her house, where he could give vent to his
opinion without reserve. He had conversed
with Oliver, who agreed with him, but who was
too timid to listen to his bold assertions lest it

should get to the ears of his father, and he
should be again reprimanded for being on too
familiar terms with his servant.

To avoid beings brought into trouble In
that way, Oliver would have kept constantly-close
to his brother, but he was painfully convinced
that Jesse did not want his company.
The next best thing he thought he could do
was to keep in the presence of his sisters as
much as possible. This led him to take
many walks with Charlotte and Miss Gordon
in their visits to the sick and poor of the
parish.

He was not at all times quite at his ease
with them. Their conversations were often
a little above his comprehension. But there
was no help for it, as Grace was at her
lessons, and he must either go out with them
or wander about alone, which he knew, from
experience, he could not easily do, as Jasper
would be sure, by some means or other, to
find out his whereabouts, and come to him
to know if he was wanted.

Sir Edward brooded in silence over the
doubts that still clung to his mind. Like
Jasper, he could not see why Dixon should
be suspected more than others. Still, it was
a great relief to him to know that not a

VOL. II. E

shadow of suspicion had in the public mind
fallen upon Jesse, and which made him willing
to leave the event in the hands of the judge
who would have to try the case.

When Jesse, who took an active part in
getting in subscriptions for the defence of
Dixon, appealed to him for assistance, he
excused himself for not opening his purse by
saying that as a magistrate, and one so nearly
connected with the case, he thought it would
not be right to take part in the popular movement,
but he did not convey to the mind of
the petitioner that he disapproved of what
he was doing.

Jesse's exertions In favour of the prisoner
had been greatly stimulated by his visits to
the keeper's house. Smith could not believe
in Dixon's guilt, but he was cautious in his
words respecting his opinion, and felt also
constantly obliged to warn his wife of the
consequence of her speaking so freely, as she
was disposed to do, upon the question before
it was finally decided in a court of justice.
She believed Philip shot himself out of sheer
despair about Miss Montag. That jealousy
had driven him to madness, but she knew
the man he was jealous of was not Dixon,
Still, she could not say who it was without

doing an amount of mischief which she shrank
from ; and so it happened that, when she
spoke of it, she became confused, and then,
not to draw attention to her thoughts, she
would go off into warm denunciations against
the jury, and by so doing make her husband
very angry.

But it was neither Smith nor his wife
who gave the Hfe - spring to Jesse in his
endeavours to serve Dixon. He had
spoken to Miss Montag about him, and
learnt from her how earnestly she desired
his acquittal.

It is very unfortunate for the poor fellow
himself,' she said, ' that he should be charged
with such a crime ; but for his poor mother,
it appears little short of death. She was here
yesterday, the picture of misery. She did not
believe in her son's guilt, but she said she
pictured him to herself, night and day, shut
up away from the woods of which he was so
fond, pining in silent despair. " Gladly would
I," she said, with tears in her eyes, "go and
be shut up where he is if they would let him
out. I know he would not run away and
leave me there." '

Poor body,' said Jesse, ' I am afraid we
can do nothing for her but preach patience,

and I should be a poor hand at that were I
to meet her

She was not noisy In her grief,' said Miss
Montag, 'but I think she was nearly brokenhearted.
I do not know what she would do
if her son's weekly money was not given to
her.'

I am glad Smith has the order to pay her
that, and that he will continue to do so, at the
least, till after the trial.'

This meeting of Jesse and Miss Montag
out In the private road that ran through the
park, was mere chance on her part, but whether
it was entirely so on his may be very questionable.
Of late he had appeared to take great
pleasure In wandering about the grounds alone,
with his gun as his only companion. He told
Smith he did not want him, and if he met any
of the under keepers In his rambles he dismissed
them with a few words and strolled
away.

Mrs Smith's eyes were getting wider open
every day, but what could she do to stop the
current of events. If she spoke to Smith she
knew he would only laugh at her, and for her
speaking to Sir Edward, that was quite out
of the question. She trembled to think of
the confusion it might occasion, not only at

the Hall, but between her husband and herself.
As for Miss Montag, whom she had
learnt to love as a daughter or a sister, it
would prove little short of ruin. The honest
body became greatly exercised in her mind,
and, after much thought, decided on a plan
which, while the knowledge of it was confined
to her own bosom, would enable her to
separate them for some time.

In furtherance of her plan, she said to her
husband, —

Georgie does not appear to be getting up
his strength at all nicely. I think I will ask
the doctor if a little change of air would do
the child good.'

Doctors don't send their patients away when
their friends can pay for them at home,' said
Smith.

You must not be so hard upon the doctor,'
rejoined his wife ; ' and, if you do not object, I
will ask him what he thinks about a change for
the dear little fellow.'

But where could you go ? ' asked Smith.
To your brother at Brighton.'

To a confectioner's shop !' said Smith ; 'just
the very place to send a sick child for a change.'

We would take care that he did not get too
many sweets.'

We,' said Smith. ' You speak as if I was
going with you.'

No ; I know you could not go.'

And I don't see,' said Smith, ' how you
could go and leave all the other children
behind.'

The others will go to school ; but I did
not mean that I would go to Brighton myself.
I thought we might send him with
Lizzie. She has not been looking very well
lately, and a little change might do her good.'

But would she like to go ? ' asked Smith.

I have no doubt she would, if she thought
it would do the child good,' answered Mrs
Smith confidently. ' When I have spoken to
the doctor I will ask her.'

Better ask her first.'

Then,' said Mrs Smith, * if the doctor said
no she would be disappointed, all for nothing.'

Well, as you like,' said Smith. ' I have
quite enough to do out of doors, without
troubling you or myself about what you do
within.'

So the question remained until the doctor
was consulted, when his opinion, proving
favourable to Mrs Smith's wishes, her scheme
was rapidly carried out, and Miss Montag
found herself with her charge safely at

Brighton, greatly to her own satisfaction as
well as the child's.

For some weeks she had been living in a
state most difficult for a young person of her
age and temperament to endure. Her connection
with Philip Lea had been, as we know,
of a very painful character. For awhile after
his death she was almost beside herself from
her fear that she would be called upon as a
witness at the inquest. Happily for her her
fears had been groundless.

Then there was the new sensation struggling
in her breast which she could scarcely
understand herself, and dared not speak of
to another. That Jesse gladdened her eyes
when he appeared before her, and that a
chance touch of his hand sent a thrill through
her nerves was beyond question. She could
not blind herself to the fact, though she felt
she would rather die than let any one else
share her secret. Mrs Smith was very kind
to her, and any secret short of this she would
have freely trusted to her keeping.

Then she would ask herself if Jesse had
given her reason to think of him as she did.
He had always been gentle and kind in his
speech with her, but was he not so with everyone
? She had seen him with his sisters and

Miss Gordon, and she could not see that he had
been more kind to her than he always appeared
to be to them.

And then even if he had paid her marked
attention, what could she hope it would lead to ?
Was he not the favourite son of Sir Edward
Harewood ? and had not fortune marked him
out as one whose natural place would be in
the higher circles of society ? And what was
she ? An unknown orphan, so poor that she
did not even know her own name. Pleasing
as the dream would sometimes be of being
loved by such a man as Jesse, it would be
nothing short of madness for her to think of
it as a reality.

It was, therefore, with a strange feeling of
relief from her perplexities that she heard of her
journey to Brighton. So far was she from
showing any disinclination to leave home, that
she freely expressed the pleasure it would give
her to take the little fellow to the sea-side and
keep him there as long as they chose. She
spoke in so hearty a manner, that the planner
of the project began to think she had overshot
the mark and formed a love-making
business, which only existed in her own
imagination.

• We live in a world of gossip,' she said to

her husband. ' Why should we say the child
is going to Brighton. We don't want any
excursionists to call and see him there, and I
daresay your brother don't either.'

Unless they go for refreshment in the way
of business,' suggested Smith.

And to pay for it,' rejoined his wife. * Yes,
but they would do no such thing. They
would call out of respect to you, and take
a friendly cup of tea. My opinion is we
had better not say where he is going, and
then we shall not be tormented by people
offering to take messages for us, or get any
brought back to us.'

As you please,' said Smith. * I don't think
it signifies much which way it is.'

Then we will only say he is gone away for
change of air, and leave the curious ones to find
out where.' Of course she did not make the
slightest allusion to Jesse, though he of all the
people in the parish was the one most in her
thoughts.

While Mrs Smith was so busy with her
scheme to prevent mischief, affairs at the Hall
were going on much in their usual course.
Sir Edward continued to actively perform
the duties pertaining to his position in society,
as well as keep to the task he had taken upon

himself on account of Oliver. For an hour,
and sometimes two, on most evenings of the
week he had him with him in his library, to
converse upon subjects treated of in the various
books he had desired him to read.

The progress the young man was now
making proved almost satisfactory to the
father. He began to think that at last there
was some chance of his being rewarded for the
labour he had for so long bestowed upon him.
There was one thing, however, which had
again come before him, of which he could not
approve, and that was the great familiarity
with which he treated his servant Jasper. To
remedy this, he said one evening to Oliver,
Your little man, as I used to call your servant,
is, I think, getting too old for what you require
of him. A boy of the size he was when he
came to you would answer your purpose very
well, and then Jasper would be able to get
a better situation.'

This happening at the time when Oliver, for
his own comfort, was keeping as much as he
could apart from Jasper, did not sound so harsh
to him as it might otherwise have done. On the
contrary, he was pleased with the idea. As he
was being gradually drawn more towards his
sister and Miss Gordon, he felt less need of

the society of Jasper, and answered his father
very readily, by saying, —

I shall be very glad to see Jasper get a
better place.'

Perhaps you will tell him so said Sir
Edward.

I will do so, if you please.'

Of course you will speak kindly to him,
and not let him feel that because you do not
require his services any longer, you are careless
of what becomes of him.'

I should be sorry to do so,' replied Oliver,
for he has been a good servant to me.'

This is better than I expected,' thought
Sir Edward.

Meantime Jesse continued his rambling
habits as usual, but they soon became uninteresting
to him. The fair form that had
lighted up the landscape was no more to be
seen, and he felt that In the midst of his friends
he was alone. He called at the keeper's house,
but she was not to be seen there. He dared
not ask what had become of her, lest that
which was now so evident to himself should be
known by another.

On his second visit he missed the sick child ;
then the truth dawned upon his mind that Miss
Montag was away from home with him. Of

the child he could speak without embarrassment,
although so much more was in the question
than appeared on the surface.
*What have you done with Mr Georgie ?' he
asked of the observant mother.

Oh, poor little fellow, he has gone away
with Miss Montag for change of air, sir.'

You could not trust him far away from you,
I should imagine ? ' observed Jesse.

Oh yes, I can, sir ; I know he will be quite
safe with her.'

Of course he will,' replied Jesse.

He was about to add something which would
have led to a direct question for the address of
the missing pair, but he felt that he could not
do it without betraying more interest in the
subject than was desirable ; he therefore resisted
the temptation, and resolved, if possible,
to conquer his desire to see them again.

His gun was forthwith left in its rest, and he
again returned to his reading with all his former
earnestness. His father was not displeased to
observe the change. He had encouraged him
after he had broken down from over-study to
keep out in the open air as much as possible,
but of late he had begun to fear that it was
leading him into idle habits, and that if he did
not soon return to his books, he would go to

Oxford very ill prepared to take the high place
he had fondly imagined he would.

But after a few days had passed, everything
was again changed. The pallid cheeks and the
old wild look came back to the student's face;
and it was evident to the least observant in the
house that he was rapidly losing his health.

This will never do, Jesse,' said his father to
him one day ; ' you are again working too earnestly
with your books, and if you do not soon
cool down a little, we shall have you under the
doctor's hands once more.'

I hope not,' replied Jesse wearily.

Useful knowledge,' observed Sir Edward,
is greatly to be desired, but it may be purchased
at too costly a price, if it is gained at
the expense of health. Put your books aside ;
I am not very busy to-day, and we will have an
hour or two in the woods. Where is Oliver ?
We will not go without him.'

They went out, and sport was not wanting,
but Jesse was far from displaying his wonted
cheerfulness. Ever and anon, even when with
his father, he would fall into fits of forgetfulness
without any visible cause. Again and
again he referred, in anxious, pitying tones, to
the imprisonment of Dixon, and more than
once drew Oliver, to his great disgust, to the

scene of the late accident or murder, whichever
it was to be called.

Sir Edward returned to the Hall, disappointed
and perplexed. Jesse in his late illness,
even when it was most serious, had looked
hopefully forward to the time when he would
be able to take his gun and go out into the
open air, but now even that desire did not
show itself His step when moving about was
listless in the extreme. Often when alone and
in silence he had endeavoured to school himself
for action by going direct to the keeper's
house, and asking plainly, if not where they had
sent their child to, when they expected him
back.

Yet what is the use of doing that ? ' he
would murmur. ' They would know I was
really inquiring for Miss Montag, whom I
have so vainly striven to forget ; and what
would they say to me ? Would they risk my
fathers displeasure by favouring my suit to
her ? But even if I could find her, would she
receive me as a friend ? and if she would not,
how could I address her ? Dare I speak to
her from the prompting of my heart ? Dare I
tell her how much I love her ? Should I so
dare, what good would come of it ? Would my
father consent to receive her as a daughter ?

I cannot hope he would. Well then, after
all, here is nothing better for me to do
than earnestly apply my mind to my book-work,
and leave no vacant place in my brain
or heart for fancy to continue her tormenting
work.'

Sir Edward not doubting but over-study was
causing the change in his manner and appearance,
begged him to put his books away, and
take to his gun again, but without avail ; then,
in despair of anything he could say or do himself,
he rode over to his doctor to seek his
advice, when it was arranged between them
that he should call, as if by accident, at the
Hall, when he would be able to form an opinion
of the state of Jesse's health, and if he found
him suffering from any bodily disease, deal with
it on the instant.

I am very anxious about my boy,' said Sir
Edward. ' This sad affair, which has had for
its result the death of one of my keepers and
the imprisonment of another, seems to be preying
strangely on his mind.'

Was he particularly attached to the deadman
? ' inquired the doctor.

No, I think not,' replied Sir Edward, ' nor
was I aware that he was so to the man Dixon,
who is now awaiting his trial, but by the interest

he now takes In him, It seems that he
must have been.'

He is of an age,' said the doctor, *to have
his sympathy aroused for one who, I understand,
is generally considered to be suffering
wrongfully. I suppose there is little chance of
the man being convicted ? '

It is a difficult subject upon which to give
an opinion,' said Sir Edward ; * and I have
sometimes felt sorry that my son has taken up
the case so warmly, as it appears to have
affected his health. I shall feel much more at
my ease when you have seen him.'

If nothing very unusual occurs,' said the
doctor, ' I will be with you before twelve o'clock
tomorrow, or I will go now, if you wish it.'

Thank you,' said Sir Edward ; * but I think
a casual call tomorrow, as you proposed, will
be the best course to adopt.'

At the appointed time the doctor met Sir
Edward and his two sons on the lawn.

Why, young gentlemen,' he said playfully,
after the greetings of the morning were over,
you appear to have changed places since I
last saw you — while Mr Oliver is looking better
than I ever saw him before ; you, on the contrary,'
he said to Jesse, * are looking as if you
were having too much of your book-work again.'

I am endeavouring to make up for lost
time,' replied Jesse, with a forced smile.

Yes remarked Sir Edward ; ' he is so intent
on his work that I had much difficulty to
induce him to spend an hour with me out of
doors this morning. I believe, if left to himself,
he would remain in his room night and
day.'

He must not do so,' said the doctor. Then,
addressing Jesse, he continued, — ' I am only
here as the friend to-day, but I warn you, if
you attempt to work beyond your strength,
you will shortly have me here again as the
doctor.'

I am ashamed of my weakness said
Jesse.

You have nothing to be ashamed of replied
the doctor. ' You are not naturally weak ; and
if you will only be a little less eager in turning
over the leaves of your book, you will do very
well. You must remember you are not a mere
machine, to be worked day and night without
intermission.'

I am afraid you give me credit for a greater
desire for work than I possess ; I often feel
that I am very idle.'

Well,' said the doctor, with a laugh, ' if you
do not amend your ways, remember what I

VOL. II. F

have said — expect the doctor back again in a
very few days.'

After a Httle more talk to the same purpose,
the visitor departed. Before he went, however,
he said privately to Sir Edward, —

If you cannot induce Jesse to resume his
gun, the next best thing you can do is to send
him from home for a time. He is evidently
too much devoted to his books here. Let him
go down to Brighton for a change. Besides
the advantage of the bracing air, the bustle of
the place will give him something new to think
about. I have a friend there who will receive
him, if you do not care to trust him in an hotel
alone.'

I thank you,' said Sir Edward ; * but I think
he would prefer going to an hotel. I can trust
him anywhere, and he would doubtless feel
under less restraint there than in a private
house. You do not doubt his capability of
taking care of himself?'

Not in the slightest degree,' was the reply.

And so it was determined that Jesse should,
without loss of time, set out for Brighton.
When his father first spoke to him upon the
subject, he showed but little concern about it.
One place, he said, was the same to him as
another ; and if he could only get rid of his

present languid feeling, he would soon be all
right again. But when he was told he must
put aside his books and exert himself to throw
off his languor, he Instantly resolved that if he
must be unhappy, he would not lay himself
open to the pitying looks and soothing words
of those around him. No ; he would fight
manfully against his despondency, and If he
could not overcome It, he would, under a
smiling face, bear with It In silence.

I would let Oliver go with you,' said his
father, ' only that, In your absence, I may want
him with me at home ; but you can take his
youth, Jasper, with you, if you like.'

Thank you,' replied Jesse ; ' but I should
prefer going alone.'

T length the all - important day of
Dixon's trial drew near, when the
question which so deeply stirred the
interest of the surrounding country
was to be decided, either, as was supposed, in
the liberation of the prisoner, or his being sent
into penal servitude for life.

Circumstances had compelled Sir Edward to
take a more prominent part in the matter than
he had intended. To quiet Jesse, who continued
very anxious about it, he had promised
him before he set out for Brighton that Dixon
should not be forgotten. He was still unfortunately
under his old cloud of doubt, and
therefore found himself in a very perplexing
position when Jesse wrote from Brighton to
say he must return for the trial, as he felt too
greatly interested in the event to remain at a
distance when it was taking place.

Sir Edward had a great objection to his son
returning for such a purpose, and immediately
answered his letter to beg him not to be anxious
about the trial.

You need not fear,' he wrote, ' that your
absence will in any way prejudice the prisoner's
defence. For myself, I can assure you I will
not forget how earnest you are upon the subject,
and that I will act for you as you would
act were you here. You know a good advocate
will conduct his defence ; and though I may
not be able to see the gentleman myself, I will
employ a friend whom I know I can trust to
carry out my instructions. Having made these
arrangements chiefly on your account, I must
therefore beg you not to think of returning
home for the present.'

When the letter reached Jesse, it made him
feel very angry. From the tone in which his
father had written, he saw that he was expected
to take his begging him not to return as a command
not to do so. He was not absolutely
angry with his father, but rather with the circumstances
in which he found himself so disagreeably
placed. The noise and constant
change going on in the hotel and the streets
had in some measure diverted his thoughts
from the old story, but they quickly lost their

influence over him, and he began to feel as
much alone as he would have done in his
father's woods.

Before answering his letter, he strolled out
to the beach to muse on the nature of his reply,
and then returned to his hotel to perform his
task. The letter went by the evening post,
but it was written in a far different spirit to
what it would have been had not the recollection
of an incident which happened to him
while he was out been present to his mind.

A short time before the trial Lea, who had
nearly recovered from his late illness, at his
earnest request was permitted to return to the
Hall. He was still very weak, but it was
thought the change might prove beneficial to
him, and help him to meet with less pain his
ordeal before the court on the appointed day.
His appearance proved very unsatisfactory to
his kind-hearted master. He did but half
respond to the hearty welcome he received,
and the warm sympathy bestowed upon him
on his return. Though he was gaining
strength in his body, his spirits were very
much depressed, and nothing that could be
said or done was able to bring a smile to his
face.

Thinking that time would do more than any

amount of talking on his part, Sir Edward contented
himself with an expression of his deepest
sympathy, and then appeared not to notice the
sad looks and nervousness of his old favourite.
He knew nothing of the struggle that was
taking place in the poor fellow's mind — a
struggle the intensity of which few are called
upon to wage with the unseen enemy of our
race, though too many have to contend with his
suggestions of what the world will say or think
of them if they do not attempt to blind it by a
departure from the truth.

He was not called upon to resume his active
duty. Sir Edward would occasionally have
him in his room, and speak kindly to him of
what they would do at some future time ; but
he was, as he desired to be, generally left to
himself to mourn over the wasted life of his
son. At times his father would pay him a
visit, and worry him with his complaints of the
servants, and the little time the rascals gave
him to attend to his accounts, and see he was
not robbed by men who borrowed his money,
and wished to forget when the interest was
due.

What the world is coming to I can't tell,'
he would say ; ' but were I to go about with
only one eye open, I should be imposed upon at

every turn. And then the men you have had
under you are not worth their salt.'

I always found them attentive to my
orders.'

Attentive to your orders ! — of course they
were,' said the old steward ; * and why ? Why,
just because you took care not to order them
to do anything they did not like.'

I think you are mistaken.'

No, I am not, I tell you. You did not
take the right course with them ; and if I had
given them up, as you wished, entirely to you,
we should have had the house out of windows
by this time.'

I am sorry you worry yourself so much
about them.'

Worry myself ! How can I help it when I
have to deal with such fellows ? Why, they
take up all my time nearly to follow them
about, so that I have scarcely any time to
attend to my own business, and my papers are
getting all scattered abroad, like dry leaves
on a windy day.'

I am sorry,' said Lea, turning restlessly in
his chair, * that I am not able to get about to
help you, but if you will send them to me, I
will speak to them.'

Oh yes ; no doubt it would be very pleasant

to you to speak softly to them, and make
me appear an old stupid tyrant !'

I do not deserve this from you

Whether you deserve it or not, you must
know what I think about your management,
and how well you were fitted to get into my
shoes, and take the whole upon yourself.'

You will think better of me,' said Lea,
some day, I hope, if I am spared to be with
you.'

Spared to be with me ! ' cried the old
steward. ' I suppose you mean me to understand
if I am spared to be with you ? You
want to remind me that I am an old man, and
must soon give up all to you, but you may find
yourself mistaken.'

No,' replied the son faintly ; ' I was speaking
of myself.'

And what reason have you to speak so ?
Just because you have been a little unwell
about the loss of that graceless son of yours,
that I always told you you did not know how
to manage.'

I must get out into the air,' said the sick
man.

You are a poor, faint-hearted creature,' said
the old steward.

The night before the day fixed for the trial

the misery of Lea had become almost unbearable.
The next day he must appear in court,
and he had been assured by officious friends
how much would depend on the evidence he
had to give.

Would to God,' he cried in his agony, ' I
had never gone in search of that unhappy boy,
and never seen what I did ! And does it now
really depend on what I shall say, whether
the poor fellow Dixon is set at liberty or sent
into perpetual banishment ? What I have
already said, I am told, will of itself go well
nigh to insure his conviction. Must it be so ?
or shall I cover myself and my son's memory
with a cloud by telling all I know of what
really did take place on that fatal day ? God
help me ! I am in a strait, and know not how
to escape from it. If it were only a matter on
which I could speak to a friend, and seek for
advice ; but it is not so ; I cannot open my
mouth without, I fear, proclaiming my poor
boy a would-be murderer. I ask myself why
he was found in the wood with a gun, when he
had made every preparation for his journey ? —
why he had uttered threats of some mischief he
intended to do ? When he presented his gun
at Dixon he did not fire. Was it because he
was not the right person ? Dreadful thought

it must be so ! Mr Jesse was the intended
victim ! '

Nearly on the verge of madness from his
tormenting thoughts, he resolved, be the cost
what it might to him or the memory of his son,
he would open his heart to Sir Edward. He
need only tell him what he had seen, without
touching on his surmises, and so much of that
only as would account for the accident.

Sir Edward listened to him very seriously.
He was at first under the impression that he
had lost his senses. If he had really seen the
gun discharged in the hands of his son, why all
this mystery respecting it ? but when he remembered
that he had been struck down by
illness, and that Dixon had been committed for
trial before he had sufficiently recovered to
complete his evidence, he began to take a more
rational view of the subject.

I am sorry,' he said, ' you did not tell me
this before ; it would have relieved your mind,
and I might have taken measures serviceable
to Dixon, and made the coming trial less painful
to you.'

I have been very weak, and have not
known what to do.'

Then it was not mere chance that took you
to the fatal spot ? '

No.; I went purposely in search of my son.
I was told he was going away, and I wanted to
persuade him not to go.'

There is still the mystery of his being therewith
his gun after what he had said to Smith.'
thought Sir Edward, but he made no allusion
to it. He saw that Lea was not in a fit state
then to be further questioned, and anything
relating to that might be explained at some
future time.

On the morrow the assize town was all in
commotion. There were several cases down
for trial, but in the minds of people generally
that of Dixon's was the most serious.

Before the court was opened. Sir Edward,
contrary to what he had proposed doing, sought
an interview with the prisoner's attorney, and
pointed out to him the additional evidence he
had obtained in favour of the prisoner.

If Lea is prepared to state on oath what
you tell me,' said the attorney, ' the case maybe
considered over as soon as it comes before
the grand jury. A true bill cannot be found
against Dixon, and there the case will end. It
will deprive my friend, Sergeant Bedford, of
the opportunity of making a brilliant speech in
favour of the prisoner, but he is too good a
man to be annoyed on that account.'

The attorney judged correctly of the result.
When the case came on in its turn before the
grand jury, Lea, who had not completed his
evidence at the inquest, was the first to be
called.

The poor man entered the room pale and
trembling. He had endeavoured to nerve himself
for what he believed his duty with but
little success. The horrible fear that his inmost
thoughts respecting his son would be
drawn from him he could not banish ; but,
happen what might, he was fully resolved that
he would not depart from the truth.

On his stating that he saw his son fall as the
gun went off in his hand, the chairman asked
him rather sternly why this evidence was not
tendered before.

I was too ill to give it.'

But the inquest was adjourned.'

Yes,' replied Lea ; ' but I was in the hospital
and unconscious of what was taking place.'

You say you saw the accident, and no one
else was present ? '

'I saw the prisoner pass by a short time
before, but he was not near when my son fell.'
'You were in company with your son ? '
No ; I was near the place looking for him.'
Gentlemen,' said the chairman, * I think it

would only be waste of time to question the
witness further. He says the death of his son
arose from a pure accident, and that the man
Dixon had nothing to do with it. I think if
we have some of the other witnesses before us,
and their evidence does not conflict with what
we have just heard, the case will end with us,
as it would be monstrous under the altered
circumstances to find a true bill against Dixon.'

As Lea listened to what was said, a dimness
came over his eyes, and he staggered to and
fro like a drunken man, and then fell heavily to
the floor. It was no fainting fit this time.
The battle was over, and one more was added
to the fathers who have died broken-hearted
through the misconduct of a son.

But the business of the sessions must go on.
The body of the dead man was carried out,
and some more witnesses introduced ; but the
case was virtually at an end. ' No bill ' was endorsed
on the charge-sheet and sent up to the
judge.

Very shortly afterwards Dixon was at liberty,
greatly to the delight of his mother, and not a
little to the disappointment of a group of ladies,
who at great trouble had secured seats in the
court to hear the trial, which would not now
take place.

Sir Edward was greatly shocked on hearing
of the sudden death of his faithful servant, and
was disposed to blame himself very much for
not having seen the dangerous state he must
have been in since his return from the hospital.
But if he had been deceived, the medical men
had also, and that was some consolation to his
wounded spirit.

Having secured a room where the body
might remain till after the inquest, he returned
home, with a heavy heart, to bear the sad news
to the old steward — the father of him who
would never more provoke him by trying to
get into his shoes before he had done with
them.

The old man received the news with an incredulous
ear. He could not, or rather he
would not, understand for some time that his
son was dead. When he did realise the fact,
and had been left by his master, he sat down
in his easy-chair to think over the news he had
been listening to, startling and unexpected as
it was. That his son should have died in such
a way amazed him much. He had never even
dreamed of anything of the kind. Strange as
it may appear, however jealous he might be of
him, or disposed to charge him with faults of
which he was not guilty, the property he had

for years been amassing he had intended for
him and him alone.

Had Philip lived a few years longer the case
might have been different, though he had never,
even when the youth was in high favour, intended
to leave anything entirely in his own hands.

'He must,' he thought, 'get a cooler head
before he gets any of my money. He would
spend it a hundred times faster than I have
been able to collect it. His father is a conceited,
soft-headed fellow, but he knows the
value of money, and I can trust him with mine
when I am gone.' But now he thought, as he
sat alone in his easy-chair after his master had
left him, — ' What is to be done now ? I never
dreamed he would go first, though I often told
him perhaps he would. Well, I must take care
I am not robbed now, and keep what I have
for myself. I may retire and get married again,
as I have sometimes thought of doing. I am
only eighty-three, and I have known men less
sound than I am live till they were a hundred
years old, and I have heard of others nearly upto
one hundred and twenty ; and why should
not I ? I am hale and hearty, and if it was
not for a twitch I get now and then of lumbago
and gout, I should be well enough all round to
live as long as any one.' So the old man

thought and murmured on, with as little sympathy
for others as he had excess of regard
for himself.

Very different was the spirit that held possession
of the drawing - room In the Hall that
evening. Tears were not wanting to make the
sorrowful feeling evident that held the mastery
there. True, It was but a servant that was
gone ; and were there not abundance of others
ready to fill his place ? So many an one would
have argued, but so did not Sir Edward. He
declared that he had not only lost an Invaluable
servant, but a humble friend, upon whose
fidelity and faithfulness he could at all times
and In all places put his most unlimited trust.

But the young people looked upon him as
one of themselves. From the first day they
could be trusted with their feet to the ground,
many a romp and scramble had they, from the
youngest to the eldest, had together with him ;
yet never had he before strangers failed to
treat them with the respect and deference due
to their station. Whether the knowledge he had
that his services were valued and appreciated
had any part in producing that respect for their
position may be matter for argument ; but of
the reality of the kind feeling that existed on
both sides there can be no doubt.

VOL. II. G

During the greater part of the evening Sir
Edward and Mr Gordon sat apart, conversing
in low tones, while the young people drew their
chairs together to talk and comment in subdued
whispers on the events of the day. Of
course the name of Dixon was not forgotten.

I cannot understand,' said Grace, * why they
kept Dixon in prison if he was not guilty.'

Because the circumstances of the case were
not fully known until they came out before the
grand jury to-day,' observed Charlotte.

And what is a grand jury ? ' asked Grace.
I get from one puzzle to another, and the last
is the hardest'

The grand jury,' replied Charlotte, ' is, I
believe, formed of a number of magistrates or
other gentlemen, who, before a charge against
a prisoner is sent up to the judge, go over the
evidence that is to be produced, and determine
its character.'

Then I suppose they were not satisfied with
it in Dixon's case ? ' observed Oliver.

What are you saying about Dixon ? ' asked
Sir Edward.

We were talking of the reason of his being
set at liberty,' replied Grace.

I think,' observed Sir Edward, * we shall
be doing no more than may fairly be expected

of us if we send for him to come up to us this
evening, that we may congratulate him on his
escape from further punishment for his supposed
crime. I can answer for myself that I
feel I ought to do so, for I must confess that
till last night I thought there was a great
probability that he fired the fatal shot.'

Did you, indeed, papa,' said Grace ; ' you
never told us so before.'

No,' replied Sir Edward ; * I should have
done wrong if I had told you what I
thought.'

But, I said, I thought he was not guilty,'
said Grace. ' Was that wrong ? If it was,
Jesse did wrong too ; for he said he was quite
sure he was innocent.'

It might not be wrong for you or Jesse,'
replied her father ; ' but you see, Grace, our
positions are not just alike in the world, and
therefore our responsibilities are not the same.
You have written to Jesse, as I directed you ?'
he added to Oliver.

Yes, papa,' replied Oliver, ' I wrote to him
immediately on our return home.'

That is well,' said his father ; ' and now we
will send for Dixon.'

* Poor fellow,' said Mr Gordon ; * it must
be a great comfort to him to know that his

mother has not been In want during his confinement


'Jesse must be thanked for that, I think
said Charlotte.

I have sent for you, Dixon said Sir Edward,
when the man entered the room, ' that you may
hear from my Hps how very sorry I am for the
unfortunate mistake which caused you to be
sent to prison

Thank you, Sir Edward,' said Dixon.

I suppose youdo norwich to leave myservlce?'

No, Sir Edward ; I shall be glad to go
back to my old work again, and I hope I shall
be able to let you see how thankful I am for
your kindness to my mother when I was notable
to help her.'

Much of your trouble said Sir Edward,
arose from the hasty words you were reported
to have indulged in against the unfortunate
youth who was so suddenly taken from us ; I
trust you will be more guarded in future.'

I will try,' Sir Edward.

And pray to God to help you, then you will
doubtless make a good use of your recovered
liberty, and be a comfort to your mother as
long as she lives.'

Though we have for some time lost sight
of Jasper, he has on that account been a not

less prominent agent in his little world than
heretofore. It was observed that when he
became too talkative of what was taking place,
and his master was obliged to shun him, that
he betook himself to an old crony, where he
could talk to his heart's content without fear
of interruption.

Now this old crony was a dame who lived
at a cottage at the extreme end of the village,
and made herself useful in the world by acting
as carrier between the village and a market-town
about five miles distant. She had a small
horse, very poorly kept, and a cart that made
when in motion a rattling noise that gave notice
of her approach long before she came in sight.

She had passed her seventieth year, and was
a little deaf, and not quite so clear-eyed as she
had been a few years since, and without either
husband or son to help her along the rough
road of life. Of her three daughters, the only
children her husband had left her, two were
married and had left the village. The third,
not quite a child, having added nearly forty
years to her birth date, was at home with her
mother assisting in the household work, grooming
the horse, and doing any odd jobs, as she
said, that came in her way.

When their day's work was over, they would

welcome Jasper to their cottage, and sit down
with him by the fire, with their ears as wide
open as they could get them, to listen to the
little budget of news he had to bring them
from the Hall. The old dame would ever and
anon make some shrewd remark in answer to
what he had said ; but, owing to her defective
hearing power, it often went wide of its purpose.

But while Jasper only gossiped with the
mother, he captivated the daughter.

Her head was reported to be of the softest
character, and by the furtive glance with which
she regarded her visitor when she was not
looking directly and lovingly into his face, it
might very safely be supposed that her heart
acted in pleasant unison with it, so that between
the two no disagreement could ever take place
to the injury of either.

When Jasper opened his battery of censure
upon the coroner and jury for having sent
Dixon to prison, he became a greater man than
ever in their eyes. The mother was pleased
because, in his anger, he spoke so loud that
she could hear him without difficulty, and the
daughter delighted because he spoke out so
bravely for a poor fellow who, as she agreed,
was unjustly shut up, and could not speak for
himself.

Nancy was the daughter's name, and it was
not long before Jasper discovered that Nancy's
attention to him was daily on the increase, which
caused him to think a little seriously of making
his visits less frequent. But, as fate would have
it, things had arrived just at this point when
Oliver, in obedience to his father's request, told
Jasper that he thought he was getting too old,
and too much of a man, to continue longer in
his present place.

I am quite content to stop with you, sir,'
said Jasper.

Would you not like a better situation ? '

No, I don't want one,' said Jasper, very
eagerly ; * where should I get such another
master as you are ? '

Oh, you will soon get one quite as good,
or better.'

I don't know where, sir,' said Jasper, very
dolefully. ' Besides I don't want to leave you ;
but if you say I must go, I suppose I must'

I do not say you must,' said Oliver, ' but I
want you to think whether it would not be
better for you.'

Well, I will think about it,' said Jasper ; * but
I am pretty sure, unless something very particular
should happen, there will be no change of
mind for me.'

That evening he related the circumstance to
Nancy and her mother, when an idea flashed
across the soft brain of the former, which, indue
time, wrought an alteration in her position,
the particulars of which the reader may discover
in another chapter.

mi

HE change of mind respecting the
time of his return home from
Brighton was a very sudden affair
with Jesse. He had gone out to
the beach to cool his brain with the sea air, or
rather with the hope of doing so, as It was not
the first time he had tried its effects, and feeling
no benefit from it had returned back to his
room at the hotel, murmuring to himself, ' I
believe I am growing more stupid every day.'

Falling back upon the natural energy of his
character, he had often endeavoured to persuade
himself that he was quite well and able for any
amount of work If he were to return home.
But it was to no purpose, and after a slight
struggle he soon found himself sinking again
into a state of listless apathy, that made him
careless of what he did, or where he went.
Then he would exclaim, ' What a fool I am

that I cannot shake off this detestable feeling.
While the world is all bustle and life around
me, I am nowhere. I cannot form a resolution
and hold to it, even for five minutes together,
without a change.'

Poor Jesse, he was in the midst of the trial
which at one period or another falls to the lot
of most young people, and from which their
elders are not at all times entirely free.
There was a void place in his heart that
mere fancy could not fill, though the ideal
form of a certain person crossed and recrossed
his brain in a most lively fashion, sometimes,
apparently, without any reference to his
own will.

I am so stupid,' he thought, after wandering
about on the beach for some time, ' that I
could for very vexation throw myself Into the
sea, and make an end of it. But to drown
oneself from the beach at Brighton could not
be seriously thought of.' From some point in
one of the piers the business might be accomplished
; so on to the old pier he went, not
however fully intent on committing suicide, but
just to learn if a man might go over the rails
into the water without a chance of being Ignobly
pulled out again, and taken before the mayor
and charged with attempting to commit a crime

which only a fool could be guilty of, unless he
was in a state of absolute insanity.

It would be easy enough no doubt he
thought, ' for a man to jump into the sea, but
there could be but little hope of his being left
there. Some one would be soon at hand
hauling him unceremoniously into a boat by
the head or heels, or any other part that might
come more readily to his grasp. No, such an
escape from his languor was not to be attempted
at Brighton in the open day, either from the
beach or pier.'

While he stood leaning over the rails dreaming
of nothing, as he would at another time
have laughingly said, a sailing boat, with two or
three men in it, arrested his attention. ' My
fine fellows,' he thought, 'you are carrying too
much sail for your little craft, and are in a fairway
of discovering for yourselves a taste of
the sea. Now, if one were with you, there
might be a chance of getting drowned by
accident, as it would be called, if you are, as
I suspect you will be very soon, capsized.'
Then he cried, as he saw her sails nearly
touch the water, ' If you do not shorten sail you
will go to the bottom ! '

All right, sir,' called out a voice from the

boat, * we are not for the fishes yet,' and away
they sped on their mad career.

Have you room for a passenger ?' shouted
Jesse, with the desperate intention of going to
the bottom with them, but his voice did not
reach the men in the boat, or was not heeded
by them, as they sailed away out into the open
sea.

As listlessly as he had strolled on to the pier
so listlessly did Jesse commence his return to
the shore, when, at a few paces from him, his
eyes fell upon an advancing figure, that caused
him to rub them with doubt and astonishment,
to discover whether it was really Miss Montag,
with her little charge, he saw, or whether it was
an unsubstantial shape, the work of his wayward
imagination.

The question was soon solved, it was Lizzie
herself with Georgie Smith. The meeting was
a mutual surprise. What might come of it
they did not stop to inquire, but its immediate
effect upon them was too apparent for mistake.
At the moment their hands were clasped together,
their eyes met, and told each other of
the all-pervading love that filled their hearts.

Had they met, as of old, in the shady walks
or green fields of the country, they would
doubtless have been more guarded in the

expressions that broke almost involuntarily
from their lips. From that moment they were
in loving communion with each other. No
protestations of love were necessary. No, nor
even its name in words. The mutual expression
of their eyes told them of the strong bond
of sympathetic feeling that existed between
their hearts.

why, Miss Montag,' exclaimed Jesse, ashe
seized her hand and pressed it warmly in
his own, *you are one of the last persons I
expected or hoped to meet here ! '

I have been in Brighton for nearly three
weeks,' replied Miss Montag, with her face at
first deadly pale, then suddenly flushing
crimson.

For three weeks ! ' echoed Jesse, ' Why, I
have been here for several days myself. How
is it that we have not met before } I have
certainly not seen you, and I very much hope
you have not seen me.'

I think I have seen you in the distance,*
replied Miss Montag timidly, but she did not
say she had purposely kept out of his sight,
because she could not meet him as a friend,
and would not meet him as a stranger. She
knew but too well of the yearning of her heart
towards him, but she also knew how hopeless

its indulgence would be, and therefore resolved
if possible not to meet him.

You think you saw me,' said Jesse. ' Why
then did you not come and speak to me, as I
would have done to you had the chance been
mine ? '

The child who had been a little frightened
by the sudden approach of Jesse, and his
eagerly taking the hand of his protectress, soon
discovered that the new comer was not an
enemy but an old friend.

Ah ! ' he stammered, as he looked up with
beseeching eyes, ' you not speak to Georgie ? '

My poor little fellow,' cried Jesse, as he
caught him up in his arms, and kissed him, * I
am very glad to see you here, and so far recovered.
Good Miss Montag has taken great
care of you.'

And Georgie good too,' said the child.

Oh yes, always,' said Jesse, as he restored
him to his feet.

You have not told me,' he continued, taking
up the thread of his discourse at the point
where it had been broken in upon by the child,
why you left me in ignorance of your presence
here?'

Please do not press me for an answer,' she
murmured.

I will not,' said Jesse, In a tremulous voice,
If It points to a secret you wish to keep from
me?'

I can have no secrets I wish to keep from
you.'

Then I must press for an answer to my
question.'

Pray, do not.'

Yes, I must,' said Jesse.

Seeing there was no escape from her dilemma
but by speaking the truth, or equivocating,
which might lead to an unfortunate misunderstanding,
she said, ' I thought it would not be
considered proper that I should make advances
to you In the public streets of Brighton.'

'Advances,' said Jesse, 'who will say that
speaking to an old friend, when you meet one,
is making improper advances.'

Our positions in the world are so different,'
she murmured.

Jesse considered for a moment and then said,
I see you would remind me that I am
the son of a baronet, and that you are below
me in station. Now, pray let me tell you once
for all, that such a consideration does not
weigh in my mind the shadow of a scruple
as far as I am concerned. But if it has any
allusion to your own reputation, that is an

entirely different thing, and I am bound to
attend to it.'

I was not thinking of myself.'

'Then think no more of it said Jesse
eagerly. ' It is true, I am not in the eyes of
the world my own master, but I think I am
of my own heart, and that heart Miss
Montag — '

Pray, let us talk of something else ?' she said,
interrupting him, and trembling with agitation.

No,' said Jesse, ' we will not, until I have
told you all. Our meeting here this morning
has been accidental, and I am now perhaps
surprised into a confession that my heart, withall
its best affections, is entirely yours, and
has been so for a very long time. Let that
suffice on my part. Now, what have you to
say on yours ? '

That I now more than ever,' replied Miss
Montag sorrowfully, ' mourn over my ignorance
of my birth, and of the position my
parents occupied in the world.'

But what can that have to do with my
question ? '

Your father loves you as his own soul,'
rejoined the now excited girl, ' and what would
he do if you were to tell him what you have
just declared to me ? '

Well, I dare say rejoined Jesse, * he would
be a little startled at first, but he is a just and
reasonable man, and would not bid me die.'

Die ! ' echoed the alarmed girl.

Yes — die,' repeated Jesse ; * for, deprived
of you, what should I have to live for ? Say,
can you not trust your heart with me, assured
of its safe keeping. I will not ask you to do
anything rash, nor will I, if I can help it, act
rashly myself. In a few days I shall return
home and speak to my father.'

And you will be guided by him ? ' she said
nervously.

Yes, entirely, if possible,' was the quick
reply ; * for I know he will not ask me to do
anything that is not right.' Then looking
earnestly at her, he added, ' You are satisfied
now, and can give me a favourable answer.'

What can I say more than you know ? '

Then you confess your heart is mine ? '
said Jesse.

Yes,' she murmured ; ' but I am afraid I
am doing wrong.'

Jesse, beside himself with joy, would have
clasped her in his arms, and sworn eternal
fidelity to her, but the old pier at Brighton
was not exactly the place for such a display
to pass unnoticed, and if it had been, that was,

VOL. II. H

as it proved, not the time for It. The boy,
who had been running up and down and around
them, suddenly stumbled and fell forward on
his face. He was not very much hurt, though
he made a good use of his lungs to call attention
to his mishap, when Miss Montag, self-condemned
for her want of care, caught him
up in her arms and covered him with kisses.

You kiss Georgie, too,' said the child, with
tearful eyes, to Jesse.

Jesse, nothing loath, as his lips would
fol-low where Miss Montag's had so lately
been, did his work so heartily that the child
put up his little hand to push him away ashe
said, —

Go away ; hurt Georgie.'

It was a curious coincidence, though perhaps
not so very curious as it might at first
sight appear, that at the identical time when
the love scene on the pier at Brighton was
taking place, a little bird was whispering in
the ear of Mrs Smith that Mr Jesse Hare-wood
was gone to Brighton for the benefit
of the sea air.

Gone to Brighton ! Well, now, that is
droll — that is where Smith's brother lives.'

She said no more to the little bird, but
she told her husband directly he came in that

she was quite longing to see her Georgie
again, and that she thought he had been
away long enough now.

Send to Miss Montag to bring him home
then,' said Smith. ' It Isn't a matter that
seems to want much talklno- about'

o

Shall I write at once and tell her to bring
him home tomorrow, or perhaps you will
write to your brother and ask him to tell
her?'

No, I shall have nothing to do with It,'
said Smith. ' You settled about the going,
and you must do the same about the coming
back.'

Miss Montag was surprised at her sudden
recall, but she was not very sorry to leave
Brighton. She felt that she was llvlnor in
an uncomfortable state of happiness. If such
an expression Is admissible. If she stopped
there she knew that she would be frequently
meeting with Jesse, and receiving his attention
with unmixed pleasure, but until he had spoken
to his father, she feared to trust unreservedly
In the bright prospect before her, lest some
bitter disappointment should come upon
them.

When Jesse heard of the order for the
return, he flushed up, and said she could not

go so soon. It was unreasonable on the part
of Mrs Smith to expect she could.

You must stop here for another week at
the very least,' he said ; ' and, if you like, I
will write and tell her so.'

That would not be wise,' replied Miss
Montag, ' I am afraid. Perhaps even Mrs
Smith would not approve of your interesting
yourself about me.'

Then I will go up with you,' said Jesse,
in a decided tone.

^ I should be sorry to say anything in
opposition to what you may think right, but
it surely would be better for me to go alone.'

I cannot see it so,' said Jesse.

'You would not wish a whisper to reach
your father's ears of our having met and been
seen together here, much less our travelling
home in the same carriage ? '

I would rather speak to him first,' said
Jesse; 'though I do not care a straw who
talks of having seen us together here. You
are not afraid of Brighton gossip, are you V

'No,' replied Miss Montag; 'but I would
give as little occasion for it as possible. Just
let me go in accordance with Mrs Smith's wish,
and then you can follow in the course of two
or three days.'

Two or three days,' said Jesse. ' And what
am I to do with myself here all that time ? I
shall be as dull and miserable as ever.'

But he could not refute the reasons she gave
for doing as she proposed, though he would not
agree with them.

The next morning found him no better pleased
to be left behind, and it was with anything buta
smiling face that he met Miss Montag at the
station, and saw her and her charge safely off
in the train.

Since his meeting with his adventure on the
pier, he had in a wonderful manner recovered
his spirits, but as he turned from the station he
felt them sink within him, and a throbbing pain
shot across his temples, reminding him too surely
that the Brighton air was not an all sufficient
remedy for his diseased brain.

I will write at once to my father,' he thought,
and tell him that I have no chance of getting
well here, and that he may expect to see me
home tomorrow.'

In so great a hurry was he to accomplish
his purpose that, instead of going up to his
room to his well-stocked desk of pen, ink, and
paper, he entered the coffee-room, and, knowing
he should find materials for writing there,
sat down and prepared to commence his task.

There were several gentlemen in the room, and
before he had got the date on the paper his
attention was arrested by two who sat near him.

It so happened that it was the day following
the one on which Dixon had regained his
liberty. Owing to Miss Montag's departure
Jesse had not seen the morning papers, nor
received Oliver's letter, which was lying unopened
in his room upstairs.

This Woodfield business seems to have
been strangely managed,' said one of the
gentlemen to his friend.

I do not know to what you allude,' was the
reply.

You have not seen the paper ? '

Yes, I have, but I saw nothing of Wood-field.'


Look at that, then, and tell me if you do
not think there is something wrong in our
laws, when a man can be shut up for days or
weeks on the bare suspicion that he is guilty
of a crime which has never been committed,
and of which he is consequently entirely innocent'


It appears rather hard upon the man
Dixon,' said the gentleman, who had been
running his eye over the paper while the
other was speaking.

These few words told Jesse that Dixon had
not been found guilty. He dropped his pen
and took up a paper to assure himself of the
particulars of the trial. As he did so his
eyes rested for a moment on the speakers.
He saw they were two elderly gentlemen,
one of whom bore on his features unmistakable
evidence of his having spent much of
his time in a foreign country. The other
looking nothing different from a stay-at-home
Englishman.

Jesse set to work on his paper, and, under
ordinary circumstances, would have paid no
more attention to them, but he had scanned
only a few lines when his eyes ceased to convey
to his brain the matter before him, and
gave up their office to his ears.

Woodcome Hall is in the parish of Wood-field,
is it not ? ' said the foreign - looking
gentleman, Mr Anson, to his friend.

Yes,' replied his friend, Mr Horn ; ' and I
have heard that it was a lucky chance for
the present proprietor that placed it in his
hands. The late Sir Henry spent much of
his time on the Continent, where, I think, I
heard you incidentally say you met him.'

I saw him frequently at one period of his life,'
said Mr Anson ; ' he came to me for advice.*

He was spoken of In London as being a
very free liver,' said Mr Horn.

'Free rejoined Mr Anson. 'Yes, and if
I were to tell you only a part of his proceedings
you might have good reason to think I
was composing a romance.'

Did he gamble ? '

Yes, to the extent of his means, and, I
suspect, sometimes beyond them ; but gambling
was not his strong point. Think of
rich dinners, good wine, and women, and you
will be nearer the mark.'

But he had a wife,' said Mr Horn.

Comparatively speaking, only for a short
time,' rejoined Mr Anson. ' His married life
did not commence until he had passed his
fortieth year, and it was finished in his
fiftieth, and, if the reports current at the
time were to be trusted, he would not have
taken a wife then if an increase of fortune
had net made the sacrifice of his liberty
necessary. She bore him but one child — a
son, who, after her death, spent too much of
his time in his father's company. He proved
to be a clever youth, but he was too readily
influenced by the unthinking men that he
gathered around him.'

Surely his father did not take him into his
society

Well, not exactly, but so near to it that it
was not possible for him to escape suffering
from its influence. For awhile, after being
withdrawn from college, he had a tutor or
travelling companion to accompany him ; but
that, I believe, did not last long, so that, at an
early age, the youth became virtually his own
master, with his father's purse open to his hand.

The training of the youth soon brought
forth its fruit. Before he was nineteen he
had entangled himself in a real or sham marriage,
with a young lady in reduced circumstances.
This he had contrived by the aid of
an old servant, while his father was away on
a visit to some friends in Switzerland.

The young lady was an orphan, but not
absolutely friendless. Her protector, however,
was only an old aunt, who lived in a small
house, and had as much as she could do to
meet her weekly expenses. The old servant,
feeling the youth was, to some extent, under
his charge, and seeing that, if he could not
obtain the girl by any other means, he would
marry her, and thereby incur for them both
the displeasure of Sir Henry. The man knew
that, whatever mic^ht be said to the son, he

would never be forgiven if he suffered such
a thing to take place ; and if, on the other
hand, he sent an account of what he feared
to his master, he would incur the hatred of
the youth, and perchance bring about an exposure
of certain intrigues in which they had
both been engaged.'

Thus far Jesse had heard tolerably well the
account of the late Sir Henry Harewood and
his son, which Mr Anson was giving to his
friend ; but here, much to his annoyance, a
break occurred in the narrative, through the
entrance of some more gentlemen, who, sitting
down near the two friends, caused their conversation
to be carried on in a lower tone, so
that Jesse could only catch here and there a
word of what was passing between them. He
could only gather that some kind of marriage
had taken place. That two children had been
born, and he thought he could make out they
were twins ; but what became of them or their
mother he could not understand.

While the conversation was going on Jesse
sat with the newspaper before his face. He
would not have sought to play the eavesdropper,
but the words that met his ear were too
interesting to cause him to think he was doing
wrong by listening to them.

The gentlemen having finished their bottle
of wine, rose from their chairs ; Jesse Immediately
did the same, with the impulse strong
upon him of at once introducing himself to
them, to obtain their names and address for
further inquiry into a matter which so nearly
concerned his family. But he desisted from
his purpose when he remembered that he was
in a public room ; and his speaking to them
there might lead to a misunderstanding, and
end In confusion.

Then he reseated himself, and took up his
paper again, and learnt all it could tell him of
the expected trial and the liberation of Dixon.
Seeing a waiter near, he asked him who the
two gentlemen were who had been sitting near
him, and who had just left the room.

I don't know, sir, but I will inquire,' said the
man.

In a few seconds he returned, and said they
were strangers at the hotel.

Have they engaged rooms 1 ' asked
Jesse.

No, sir ; they said their luggage was at the
station, and they were going from Brighton by
the next train.'

When does the train leave ? '

I think it is on the point of starting now,

sir. The omnibus left the door some minutes
since.'

Jesse stayed for no further question, but
rushing from the door of the hotel, jumped into
a fly, calling out to the driver as he did so, —

To the station as quick as you can go ! '

Which one, sir ? ' inquired the driver.

'The one the omnibus has just gone to.'

All right, sir,' cried the driver, and off they
went at an extra shilling rate. They had not,
however, gone many yards when they were
met by two youths riding on bicycles, who
seemed a little nervous at the sudden appearance
of the fly, and not able at the moment to
decide how to keep out of its way. This resulted
in the driver pulling his horse aside
with so much force that the poor beast, after
struggling forward a few steps, fell heavily to
the ground.

All right, sir ! ' cried the driver, as he
jumped from the box. * Keep your seat, sir.
Up in a minute.'

At the end of five minutes Jesse's stock of
patience was exhausted. He sprang from his
seat, and calling out, ' Come to the hotel for
your fare,' started off towards the station like
a madman.

Again vexatious disappointment awaited him.

He reached a station, but only to find It was
the wrong one. Then, without a moment's
delay, he was off for the other, but though he
made use of another fly which went at a good
rate without meeting with any accident, he
only reached the entrance just In time to see the
end of the train In the distance hurrying along
on the rails after the engine.

By this time Jesse was fully aroused from
his lethargy, and he, to the no small astonishment
of the bystanders, wished all the bicycles

at the bottom of the sea. Seeing that a little

< >

crowd was gathering around him, he said,
Two of those stupid two-wheeled things threw
my horse down, and made me lose the train.'

Why, your horse seemed all right enough
when you came In sight,' said some of the
crowd.

I do not mean that one,' cried Jesse, as he
entered the booking-office. ' It was the other.'

Then he knocked lustily with his knuckles
at the little door of the money-taker, and as it
was thrown back with an angry jerk, asked
hurriedly if two gentlemen had just taken
tickets for London, one with a foreign look,
and the other rather pale.

Perhaps they have,' was the reply, ' but we
have no time to look at passengers' faces when

they are pressing one upon the other for tickets.
But if they did, they are gone to London, as
the train does not stop till it gets there.' And
the little door jumped back again into its place.

Not over civil,' thought Jesse, as he turned
away, on his return to the hotel. Arrived there,
he passed at once to his room, where he found
Oliver's letter, which took his mind from his
late exciting chase and its cause to his friends
at home, and the more than ordinary incident
that had lately occurred there.

Having mastered the contents of his letter,
and written, his reply, he threw himself into an
arm-chair to consider where he was, what he
had done, and what he had to do.

HILE Jesse was being aroused from
his lethargy at Brighton, and hopefully
looking forward to happier days,
a cloud was gathering at Downend
which threatened ere long to bring a tempest of
no common character upon Elston Court, If a
change In the state of affairs did not shortly
intervene, and scatter its darkening Influence.

It was but the old story renewed. Another
letter had reached Mr Cresswell from his friend
at Marseilles, by which he learnt that the money
he had sent for Lyson had been handed to him,
but his friend had good reason to believe that
it had been misapplied. The tourist parts
according to Lyson, had through some misunderstanding
respecting the time of starting,
left the harbour without him, and carried off
with them his luggage and the greater part of
his available cash.

As a matter of course, another letter quickly
followed this, in which his friend stated that
Lyson had just called upon him again with a
pitiful tale of his being in extreme want of
money, and begging for another advance on
Mr Cresswell's account. ' I informed Mr Lyson,'
wrote his friend, ' that I had no authority from
you to comply with his request, when he said
angrily that if I would not assist him out of his
difficulty he should be tempted to do something
that his friends would be sorry to hear of ;
whereupon I told him I would have nothing
more to do with him or his difficulties, and that
if he had any communication he wished to make
to you he was of all persons in the world the
most fitting to do ito



In dealing thus with your son-in-law,' said
the writer, ' I trust you will not think I have
acted disrespectfully towards you, for had I felt
that he needed the money for any legitimate
purpose I would have instantly let him have it
without any scruple respecting your approval of
the action. I do not think he will trouble me
again, but if he does I shall only repeat what I
have already told him ; and if 1 might venture
to offer you a little friendly advice, I would say
do not, if he should write to you, believe too
readily any statement he may make to you,

either of what I have done or refused to door
his account of the poverty into which
the actions of false friends have plunged
him.'

The letter containing this unpleasant intelligence
unfortunately fell into the hands of Edith
and her mother. And this was the manner of
its doing so. Mr Cresswell received it when
engaged in writing a letter in his library ; the
servant who brought it, knowing that he need
not wait for an answer, placed it without a
word on the table and left the room. Having
finished the sentence he was writing, Mr Cress-well
turned to the letter, and observing that it
was from the Continent, immediately opened it
and made himself acquainted with its contents.
Then he sank back in his chair, murmuring ashe
did so, ' Will this man never cease to be a
thorn in my side ? '

After sitting thoughtful and silent for sometime,
he decided that he would ride over to
Woodfield, and once more lay the troublesome
affair before Sir Edward, and see if he could
advise him how to proceed to put a stop to the
annoyance to which he had so long been a
martyr. But that he might not come to a
hasty conclusion he re-read the letter, and then
putting it down again, proceeded to finish the

VOL. II. I

one upon which he was engaged, when the
servant entered the room.

Having completed his task he drew his loose
papers with a trembling hand into the drawer,
and, as he did so, accidentally brushed off the
important letter he had just received into the
waste-paper basket. Rising from his seat he
placed the empty envelope in his breast-pocket,
and left the room to tell his wife that, as the
morning was very fine, and he had not had
much exercise lately, he thought he would ride
over to Woodfield.

You will have the carriage, papa, will you
not ? ' asked Edith, who happened to be in the
room with her mother.

Yes, I think so,' was the reply.

Then, if you will take us with you, we shall
be pleased to accompany you.'

As their presence was the very thing he wished
to avoid, he walked to the window without appearing
to hear what his daughter had said.

No, not the carriage,' he added half aloud.
It is very fine, and a brisk ride on my cob will
do me good.'

I was saying, papa,' urged Edith, ' that if
you were going in the carriage — '

No,' said her father interrupting her, * I
shall ride over on horseback.'

I am rather pleased to hear you say so,'
interposed Mrs Cresswell, * as I do not feel
equal for much visiting to-day, and I know-edith
would not like to go without me.'

I shall not be late from home observed
Mr Cresswell, as he left the room to prepare
for his little journey.

Oh dear,' said Edith, * I am afraid papa has
had some unpleasant news by the post ; he
seemed so very cheerful at breakfast time, but
now he has that old anxious look that I am so
sorry to see on his features ; and you too are
not well'

You trouble yourself too much about us,'
said her mother, * and do you know I sometimes
think you forget we are getting old.'

Oh no, mamma,' rejoined Edith with a
smile, ' I cannot forget that, seeing how old I
am growing myself.'

As soon as the sound of the hoofs of the
horse on which Mr Cresswell was ridings had
died away in the distance, Edith, as was her
custom, went into the library to put in order
any papers and books her father might have
left scattered about. Like most gentlemen, he
had a great dislike to a servant being suffered,
duster in hand, to go into his room in his
absence with her untutored notions of making

everything clean and comfortable. Edith had
long since discovered the state of his mind in
that particular, and had taken upon herself the
task of doing all that was necessary to be done
from day to day in the library, excepting the
fireplace and the carpet, when the open bookcase
was covered up for a general sweep.

The waste-paper basket came in for a share
of her attention. More than once she had
recovered papers from it that had slipped in
without notice, and whose loss might have
occasioned some trouble. On these irregularities
being discovered, it was her practice
to put the papers in a place of safety,
and report the fact as of no account to her
father.

Thus It was that, without any undue curiosity
on her part, the important letter from Marseilles
fell into her hands. As might have
been expected, its contents threw her into a
state of great excitement. For some time she
had heard no particulars of her husband, and
she was under the impression her father knew
no more of him than she did. Now she was
suddenly undeceived. Not only had her father
known of his whereabouts, but she could perceive
that he had been, indirectly at least, in
correspondence with him.

She stood with the letter considering how
she ought to act, when the door opened and
her mother entered the room. This had the
effect of increasing her excitement ; what should
she do ? Should she tell her mother of the
discovery she had made, and make her as
wretched as herself ? She stood irresolute, not
knowing what to say or do.

Why, Edith,' said her mother, * what ails
you ? You look as if you had suddenly come
upon a gunpowder plot, or something quite as
startling.'

I have found something that has greatly
surprised me, mother,' stammered Edith.

You have not been reading your father's
letters, I hope ? ' said her mother.

I have read nothing but what I found in the
waste-paper basket,' said Edith.

Oh, then,' said Mrs Cresswell, greatly relieved,
* it cannot be of much consequence.'

No, certainly,' replied Edith ; ' so I will just
put it aside, and say no more about it.'

I suppose its proper place is the basket,*
said Mrs Cresswell. * Your father would not
have put it there if it had been of any consequence,
unless, indeed,' she added after a slight
pause, ' he wished you to see it.'

Wished me to see it, mother ! ' repeated Edith,

and as she spoke a new light appeared to break
in upon her mind.

Was it possible,' she asked herself, * that her
father wished her to know what was taking
place, and had not the heart to speak to her
before she had in some measure become acquainted
with it ? Yes, it must be so,' she concluded,
and then continued aloud, —

And now, what is to be done ? Shall I tell
my father immediately on his return, or wait
for him to allude to it? '

You forget,' said her mother, * that I do not
know to what you expect he will allude. I have
not seen the letter.'

If my father intended me to see it,' said
Edith, ' he could not object to my showing it to
you.'

This is very unfortunate,' said Mrs Cress-well,
when she had made herself acquainted
with the contents of the letter. * Yes, it is most
unfortunate,' she repeated ; * and I am very
sorry, Edith, that you have read it.'

But if my father left it on the top of his
basket that I should read — '

There must have been some mistake for it
to get there,' said Mrs Cresswell, interrupting
her daughter. * I know your father too
well to imagine for a moment that he would

adopt such an Indirect method of making
you acquainted with anything he wished you
to know.'

While she was speaking, she saw from the
window a horseman coming rapidly towards the
house. The letter dropped from her trembling
hand, as she said, —

It is your father coming back. Now you
will soon know If he intended you to see it.
Put the letter back in the place where you took
It from, until we discover why he has returned
so soon.'

Ah ! ' said Mr Cresswell as he entered the
room, 'my little maid has lost no time in
getting to work In my absence. You are surprised
to see me back so soon, but I am not
come to stop. I very carelessly left a paper
behind which I wished to show to Sir Edward.'
As he spoke he went to his table-drawer and
unlocked it, and began hastily to search among
Its contents, continuing as he did so, — ' It was
by the merest chance I discovered my mistake.
Plague take the paper ! ' he cried. * Where can
it be ? I certainly had it by me when I was
writing. Could I have dropped it into the
basket ? ' When he turned to that all further
search was unnecessary. There lay the letter
uncovered before his eye. Eagerly he seized

it, put It in his pocket, and was about to leave
the room, when Mrs Cresswell said, —

What ! going without one word to the poor
old wife ? '

I have lost so much time by my stupid
blunder,' he replied, ' that I must beg you to
excuse my seeming neglect.'

As he spoke his eyes glanced from his wife
to his daughter, and in a moment he became
aware that something unusual had occurred
during his brief absence. There was an anxious,
inquiring look upon their features that told him
as plainly as a loving whisper would have done
had it sounded in his ears, — ' We know all ; can
you not trust us ? ' ' If they have seen the letter,'
he thought, ' further attempt at disguise on my
part will be useless.'

Edith, seeing his perplexing hesitation and
guessing its cause, went quietly up to him, and
putting her hand gently on his arm, said, —

Father, I have seen the letter.'

If you have read it, you have done very
wrong,' he replied. ' You must have known the
instant you saw It that I did not put It there for
you to read.'

When I first took it in my hand,' said
Edith, ' I thought it was waste paper, and
merely looked at It, not, as you may suppose,

out of curiosity, but really to see if I thought
you Intended It to be destroyed, as I have done
by your loose papers many times before. Having
commenced to read It, I could not stop
until I reached the end. If I have done wrong,
I must beg you to pardon me. My punishment
will be more than sufficient to know that I have
offended and grieved you,'

My poor child,' said Mr Cresswell, ' If I am
angry or grieved, it Is not for what you have
done, but with myself, for my own fault In leaving
It so carelessly for you to see. You do not
know how Incessantly I have striven for months
past to keep all this and the like unfortunate
business from you.'

I am sorry, very sorry,' rejoined Edith,
that I have been the cause of so much trouble
to you.'

I spoke not in the way of complaint,' said
her father, ' but simply to let you know how
very sorry I am that all my caution has been to
no purpose, through my own carelessness. For
you, I think you must know that you have my
warmest sympathy and most sincere pity.'

Then please take me fully into your confidence,
and let me show you that I am not undeserving
of your sympathy and pity, and my
mother too. Be sure that in this matter you

can trust us. Why should you keep all this
trouble to yourself, when It is not of your own
creating, and you have us to share It with
you ? '

This was the business that was taking you
to Woodfield ? ' said Mrs Cresswell.

Yes,' replied her husband ; ' but since you
have broken In upon my secret, when I return
I will make amends for my past silence by
answering as fully as I can every question you
may put to me.'

In a few minutes Mr Cresswell was again on
the road for Woodfield, and his wife and daughter
sitting down conversing together In subdued
tones of what the unseen future might have In
store for them.

The result of Mr Cresswell's consultation
with Sir Edward Harewood at Woodfield,
and with his wife and daughter on his return
home, was expressed In a letter he sent to
his friend at Marseilles, In which he spoke
of the great obligation he felt he was under
to him, and how highly he approved of his
determination to have nothing further to do
with a man who had shown so little regard
for truth and honesty.

If you chance to meet with him again,' he
continued, ' and he persists in annoying you,

pray let me hear from you again, and I will
write to him, and if possible bring him to
a sense of his misconduct. You may rest
assured he will have my opinion very plainly
expressed of the light in which I view his
mean actions and despicable schemes. Should
you hear any idle reports he may set abroad
of my harsh dealing with him, you will add to
the debt I owe you by treating the matter with
contempt.'

So for the time the matter ended. Mr
Cresswell did not make any report of it to
Mr Lyson, who was every day growing more
complaining and childish, nor to the sisters
of the profligate, as he knew it would only
lead them to utter a multitude of words to no
purpose, to show how much their dear brother
was to be pitied.

Sir Edward was equally silent with his
friends. He had great confidence in Mr
Gordon ; but this he looked upon as a family
matter, in which a stranger could not be well
called upon to give advice. As for his daughters,
the whole affair was of too delicate a nature
to be brought before them in any shape whatever.


To Oliver he could not speak with any hope
of being understood ; and as it occurred while

Jesse was at Brighton, he must perforce remain
ignorant of what was taking place.

Had Sir Edward known the cause of Jesse's
proposal to return home, he would have had
but little reason to be pleased ; but in his
ignorance of that he was delighted with the
cheerful tone of his last letter, in which he
said he was feeling quite well, and he had
good hope that it would be a very long time
before he had one of his old dull, mopish fits
again.

To Oliver the news of his brother's return
was most welcome. Though he had some
reason to be jealous of him; not a spark of it
had ever entered his head or heart. Compared
with himself, he looked upon his brother almost
as a being of another world. He had no more
idea now, than when he was an infant, how
Jesse could stand up in the midst of a room
full of company, and give his opinion on any
matter in question, without a tremor in his
voice or nervous twitching in his face.

They were always the best of friends; he was
confiding, and Jesse was generous, with no
desire to set off his ability at the expense of
his brother.

Oliver was a little perplexed after hearing of
Jesse's return, to know how he should manage

with his sister Charlotte and Miss Gordon. It
had become part of the business of the day
with him to go with them on their visits to the
school, and on their rounds of mercy to the poor
and afflicted of the parish. He carried the
basket containing all the necessary things for
the missionary of a parish, when assisted and
smiled upon by a rich and powerful neighbour.

There was meat for the convalescent, jelly
for the sick, soft bread for the toothless, with
butter, tea, and coffee. Fruit and cakes for
the children, and, tell it not in Gath, a screw of
tobacco for an old man, and a pinch of snuff for
his wife. Oliver became pleased and proud of
his basket. He always found it made him a
pleasant and welcome visitor. All he had todo
was within the reach of his present abilities,
and happy indeed it would have been for him
if all his occupations from his childhood had
been measured by the same standard.

His perplexities respecting the future management
of his time grew in seriousness as the
hour for his brother's reappearance drew near.
He consulted Charlotte on the subject, and was
assured by her that if he made the most of his
time, he would be able to continue his work
with the basket, and have some hours to spare
during the day for the company of his brother,

as well as to prepare his reading lesson for his
father In the evening.

Neither you nor Miss Gordon observed
Oliver, * would like me to leave you in your
work.'

Oh, certainly not replied Charlotte. * We
should be both, I am sure, sorry to lose you.'

Then I will tell Jesse so, as soon as I see
him, and I daresay, after the first two or three
days, he will not want me to be with him much,
and then I can always go out with you and Miss
Gordon. I am glad I spoke to you, for now I
shall know what to do.'

Whatever fears he might still have that Jesse
would want to take him from his occupation,
they were very soon dissipated on that young
gentleman reaching home. So far was he from
wanting him to accompany him in his walks, or
when out with his gun, that he strongly recommended
him to keep on good terms with the
ladles, and continue with them in his useful and
charitable work.

That is very kind of you,' said Oliver,
and I am very much obliged to you for your
good advice.'

Jesse was particularly full of business at
that time. He had thought over very seriously
the conversation he had overheard between

the two gentlemen in the hotel at Brighton
respecting the late Sir Henry Harewood and
his son. He would have taken little heed of
what they said, had not the idea presented
itself to his mind that the young lady spoken
of was the mother of the two orphan children
that Lady Harewood so generously protected.
It might be only fancy, but if it was so, the
more he thought of it the stronger the fancy
became.

Since Miss Montag had engrossed so much
of his attention, and more especially since he
had declared his love to her, he could not
help feeling greatly interested in her early
life. He knew from a child she had been
acquainted with some few German words, of
which she could give no account of how or
where she had learnt them. All that she could
say was that she had known them as long as
she could remember anything. These few
German words, he believed, had had much toto
do in attracting his mothers attention so
pointedly to her and her brother, as she had
spent some years in Germany before her marriage,
and was greatly attached to the language
and the people of the country.

What so likely, then,' he argued with himself,
'that if the account he had listened to at Brighton

was correct, after the death of Mr Henry Hare-wood,
his wife, true or false, as the case might
be, unacknowledged as she was, should have
fallen into a state of poverty, and, as a last
resource, made her way to Woodfield with
the intention of claiming the protection of any
part of the family she might find there

He must gather up every incident of their
first appearance in the park, and keep them
fresh in his mind, so that he might be able to
join them together with any new information
he could find, of which he would instantly go
in search.

He knew Mrs Brown, the old nurse, to whose
care he understood the children were, in the first
instance, committed, was always very curious
to learn all that was passing around her, and
that if she had remarked anything in particular
in them when they were brought to her, she
would not be likely to have forgotten it. Then
he more than half suspected that the unprincipled
servant spoken of by the gentlemen was
no other than Lea, his father's old steward.

With respect to that suspicion, strong, however,
as it might be, a little thought convinced
him that he must be very careful. Lea would
be the link to join the past and present together
if he could get sufficient evidence to prove that

the supposed marriage did take place, and that
two children, a boy and a girl, resulted from it.
But as Lea could not truthfully say a word of
what he knew of the matter without condemning
himself, it was fairly to be expected that
he would not voluntarily utter that one word,
much more enter into a narrative that would
prove so injurious to his character.

Yes, he must be very cautious in making his
attack upon Lea. He must learn all he could
from others, and then close suddenly upon him
and frighten him into a confession of the whole
truth as far as it had come before him. Then
there was his father, Sir Edward, all that a
stranger could know of the case must at the
time of the appearance of the poor lady and
her children have been known to him.

But he would not mention the subject that
was thus engrossing his thoughts to his father
until he had confessed to him his love for Miss
Montag. To do so he feared might involve
him in a new trouble. Supposing his father
disapproved of his declaration to the lady, it
might be the means of placing obstacles in the
way of the inquiry he was bent upon.

He did not reach home on his return from
Brighton till late in the evening, in consequence
of his having gone on to London in the hope

VOL. II. K

of obtaining some information of the movements
of the two gentlemen he so much desired
again to meet. But they had passed away as
shadows from the housetop, and had left no
mark that he could find of their existence
behind them.

The first thing to be done on the morning
after his arrival at home, was to take his gun
and go down to the keeper's house to make
himself acquainted with the state of affairs in
and about the woods. Of course he found an
opportunity of speaking to Lizzie, but he could
not venture to tell her what had occurred since
they parted at Brighton, lest he should unnecessarily
excite her, and make her restless
and unhappy.

He was therefore obliged to content himself
by saying he had undertaken a little private
business that would perhaps require his whole
attention for a few days, which he must have
out of hand before he could speak to his father
of their engagement. The delay will be but
for a few days at the most, and in the meantime,
if a favourable opportunity presents itself,
I shall not fail to avail myself of it. Can you
trust me ?

I should be unworthy of your love if I
could not,' murmured Lizzie.

They had no time for a lengthened conversation.
Mr Smith was within sight and nearly
within hearing, while they were together. But
what was wanting in thoughtfully expressed
words, was more than compensated for by the
bright and trusting eyes with which they regarded
each other.

Mrs Smith was at her wits' end to discover if
they had met at Brighton. By indirect means
she had sought to discover from Miss M on tag
how the matter stood, but in vain. She would
have put the question directly to her, had she
not continued to hope that she would learn all
she wished to know without appearing at all
interested in the matter.

She had a shrewd suspicion that they had
met, from certain broken sentences that escaped
from the lips of little Georgie, in which Jesse's
name appeared very prominent. He was too
young to give any connected account of what
he had seen or heard ; but his mother felt almost
assured, from his behaviour, that there were
incidents that had occurred at Brighton still
floating in his mind which could arise from no
other cause than the meeting together of Mr
Jesse and Miss Montag.

What they chose to do, she decided after
thinking over the affair for some time very

seriously, was of course no business of hers.
But she was a mother, and almost felt that she
stood in that relation to Lizzie, and therefore
she could not with a clear conscience see any
wrong doing, and remain silent. At length her
curiosity grew so strong to learn the real state
of affairs, that she resolved she would wait upon
accident no longer, but speak openly of her
fears to Lizzie ; before, however, she did so, like
a sensible woman, she thought it would be as
well if she mentioned her intention to her
husband.

She would have done so before the death of
Philip, had she not feared it would lead to a
great commotion. Now that fear no longer
existed, but the necessity for something to be
done was more pressing than ever.

I dare say it is all right for you to keep your
eyes open in and about your own house,' said
Smith, interrupting her in the midst of her story,
but I can't understand why you should go out
of your way to look into every hole and corner
in search of other people's business. If Mr
Jesse is a little struck with Lizzie's good looks,
she is a prudent girl, and no harm, I should
think, would come of it. He will soon be
going, I am told, away to Oxford, and I daresay
he will see plenty of pretty faces there to

drive the present nonsense out of his head, if
he has got any in it.'

But you don't consider — '

Don't consider ! What is there to consider?'
cried Smith, interrupting her. * Do you think
no one has eyes but yourself? Have you seen
anything wrong going on between them ? No,
of course you have not, nor have I ; and more
than that, I don't think either of us is Hkely to.'

Mt is to prevent — '

Prevent dogs and cats. Prevent what ? '
again broke in Smith. ' Do you want me to
think that Miss Montag is a fool, and Mr Jesse
a scamp, because if you do, you have rather a
tough job before you, I can tell you ? '

Then you think I had better not speak to
her?'

Speak to her as much as you like, but don't
go and put your nonsense into her head, and
then think you found it there.'

I can't make you understand.'

Then don't try,' retorted Smith. * It will be
quite time enough for you to manage other
people's business when you have none of your
own to attend to.'

Mrs Smith felt herself beaten at all points,
and was obliged to give up the contest, though
she was far from being satisfied that events

would pass off so easily and quietly as her
husband seemed to think they would.

I am glad to see you so active this morning,'
said Sir Edward to Jesse, as he met him in the
hall, with his gun in his hand, returning from
his walk.

I have been down to see Smith, and have a
little talk with him of what he has been doing
in my absence, and to learn how his new assistant
is coming on.'

Did you see Dixon ? ' asked Sir Edward.

No ; but I heard he was at his work again,
and doing very well.'

We must not lose sight of him,' observed
Sir Edward. ' I am afraid I was a little too
hard upon him.'

You could not help It, thinking as you did.'

No, not under the circumstances as they
were presented to my mind. But I am heartily
glad that the affair is over.'

*And that it ended as It did,' said Jesse; 'had
it not been attended by the death of poor Lea.'

As they sat at breakfast Jesse led the conversation
to the brother of Miss Montag and
his protege — the mischief of the parish.

I suppose you have done nothing more
with that wild boy yet '^. '

It is time something was done with him, I

think,' exclaimed Grace, ' or he will soon break
his neck, or hang himself, or — Well, I do
not know what he will do, he is such a wild boy.'

What mischief has he done now ? ' asked
Jesse.

I don't know that he has done much mischief,'
said Grace ; ' but we are told he is fond
of getting Into all sorts of odd and dangerous
places. First he is on the top of the highest
tree, then on the roof of a cottage talking to
the inmates down the chimney, then he Is In
the bucket at the well asking his schoolfellows
to let him down for a drop of water. Then he
has a bonfire from the loose stuff under the
trees, and dancing about over it as If fire had
no power to hurt him.'

He is a lively boy,' observed Charlotte, ' but
I do not think he Is so bad as some people say
he is.'

He Is lively enough, that is certain,' said
Oliver, ^ and dances about round us when I am
out with you and Miss Gordon as if he wished
to frighten some sweets out of my basket.'

And does he ever succeed ? ' Inquired Jesse.

Yes, almost always. I think Miss Gordon
likes him very much, for she comes to me and
pokes about In the basket, and I do believe It
is to find the best she can for him.'

You are not jealous, I hope ? ' said Grace.

Jealous ? oh no ! ' replied Oliver ; ' only I
don't see why he should always have the best
looked out for him.'

They say children take after their parents,'
observed Jesse. ' I wonder who Mr Montag
took after when he chose such a boy as that to
be so much attached to.'

He never had any parents. Did he, papa ? '
asked Grace.

You mean,' said Jesse, ' that it is not known
who his parents were ? '

Yes, that is what I mean,' said Grace, her
face growing very red at the idea of the ridiculous
mistake she had made.

Poor fellow!' said Sir Edward, ' I am afraid
both he and his sister will, to the end of their
days, remain in ignorance of their parentage.'

I could never understand,' observed Jesse,
why it was so difficult to discover from whence
they came.'

Take the problem yourself, Jesse, and see
what you can make of it. A cold autumnal
night, a poor starving woman, speechless when
first seen, two crying children by her side,
infants I may say, shivering with cold, all
thinly clad, and on whose clothes, on the
strictest search being made, no distinct mark of

any kind could be found. Yes, take the notes,
Jesse, to your room, and see what you, with
the aid of all your books, can make of them.'

I think,' said Jesse, * I would not appeal to
my dead books, but rather to all the living
evidence that could be procured.'

And where would you find any ? ' asked his
father.

*I think I have heard,' replied Jesse, 'that you
have no doubt their parents were Germans.'

That idea was the only clue we could get to
work upon,' said Sir Edward, ' and that rested
on no better foundation than from the few
sounds the children uttered, which your mother
said were German words that she had heard at
Munich.'

'And were their clothes of German
texture ? '

No ; I was told they were all English.'

Respecting the German words, I suppose
there can be no doubt ? '

Your mother said there was not, and she
was well skilled in the German tongue and its
varieties of expression in different parts of the
empire. She repeated certain sounds to the
children, which they readily caught and made
their own ; but I am far from certain that their
German was not more of your mother's teaching

than from any previous knowledge they had
of it.'

They have both much to be grateful for
said Jesse.

To your mother rejoined Sir Edward ;
*yes, much.' Then after a pause he added,
I may say everything, for she it was who
caused them to be lifted up from their miserable
state to that which they now occupy.'

And was everything done that could be
done,' asked Jesse, 'to settle the question of
their birth ? '

'We thought so at the time replied Sir
Edward, ' and I have since had no reason to
doubt the justness of the conclusion we then
came to. We advertised the case in the papers,
and we sent Lea into Germany to make inquiries.
He had travelled a good deal in the country,
and freely offered himself for the service. But
it was all to no purpose, neither from the
advertisements nor his inquiries did we obtain
the slightest information.'

Lea said Jesse ; ' do you mean the poor
fellow we have just lost ?'

No, but his father, who left the room a
minute since. You have heard that he was the
late Sir Henry's servant, and travelled with
him

I should like to hear his account of the
manner in which he conducted his search,'
said Jesse.

I do not see what pleasure or profit you
could derive from it,' rejoined Sir Edward.
Some events are better forgotten than remembered,
and this appears to be one of them, as
nothing can now result from a renewal of the
inquiry but vexation and disappointment.'

You know, papa,' said Jesse, ' I am fond of
adventures, and Lea, I should think, must have
met with many in his passing from place to
place in his search. I should like to have a
talk with him about it.'

If you will keep your conversation to yourselves,'
replied Sir Edward, * you may have a
whole day to talk it over ; but to return to
Edmund Montag's protege. I think he will
have to be sent away to a school at a distance.'

I have a little writing to do this morning,'
said Jesse, 'and I have promised to meet Smith
at eleven o'clock ; but I shall avail myself of
your permission to have a long talk with Lea
very shortly.'

I THIN a month from the day when
Mr Cresswell sent his determination
respecting his son-in-law to his
friend at Marseilles, two Englishmen
were seated together in a private room
at an hotel in that city. By the manner in
which they were dressed, It was evident they
wished to be considered as gentlemen to whom
a few pounds more or less was of little consequence.


The younger of the two was a man of about
forty, whose jaunty air, coupled with features
upon which dissipation had set its mark, showed
unmistakably to what class of society he belonged.
The other was a little, white-haired,
old man primly attired In a suit of dark clothes
carefully fitted to his slender body.

They had just met after a brief separation.
Their behaviour to each other on the present

occasion, whatever it might have been at some
former time, was not indicative of perfect
equality, though there was a freedom about
it which showed that their acquaintance was
not of yesterday.

We cannot always control our luck,' said
Circum, the elder of the two ; ' but it is very
awkward to find a gentleman without a pound
when one wants it so badly

That is often your case, my good friend,*
said Maypole Lyson, for he it was who satin
the opposite chair.

But not the less unpleasant on that
account

Well,' said Lyson, ' I am sorry for you,
but I cannot help you. I am as hard-up as
yourself; and you must know that you are not
the only unlucky fellow in the world. The
fates have been against me for the last month.
Cards and dice have been equally against me.
By no possible trick within my reach have
I been able to put a single pound in my purse.'

Ah ! ' said Circum, ' but you can afford to
be independent of luck ; you have rich relations
that in hard times you can fall back upon, and
so are not obliged to live upon the ups and
downs of life as I am.'

Rich relations,' said Lyson, * and so they are

likely to be for the trifle I can get out of
them.'

You get your quarterly supplies ? '

I have had them up to the present time
said Lyson ; ' but because I have asked for a
pound or two extra, I am told that I must be
quiet or I shall have no more.'

But you are not disposed to be quiet for an
idle threat like that ? It is very hard, I know,
to bleed some people, but there are few, I
imagine, who can perform the operation more
scientifically than you.'

Tools become blunt with using.'

Not in your hands.'

Listen,' said Lyson, ' and you shall judge.
I lately came across here in Marseilles an old
friend of my dear old father-in-law, and being
as a matter of course a little short of the needful
at the time, I entreated him to let me have a
trifle on the old gentleman's account, to join a
party bound for the Holy Land, or some other
out-of-the-way place. I was obliged to put it
on pretty strong, and to submit to all sorts of
questioning before I could get the half of what
I wanted ; and now, as I am trying for the
other half, I am told to be very careful, or my
quarterly remittance will be stopped ; and the
most provoking part of the business Is, I have

good reason for believing, by a telegram that
was sent from this place, that an old enemy of
mine. Sir Edward Harewood, is in the plot
against me.'

Harewood ! ' said CIrcum ; ' he cannot be a
son of the late Sir Henry ? '

No ; he is his nephew.'

Ah ! ' I remember the particulars of the
case now ; the old man lost his son and died
childless.'

That is saying more than circumstances
will warrant,' said Lyson.

I mean legitimate,' said CIrcum.

Ah 1 that's another matter.'

But,' replied CIrcum, ' It Is sometimes nota
very difficult matter to manufacture a little
legitimacy. If it would answer your purpose,
I think I could assist you to make this Sir
Edward shake In his shoes.'

You don't say so ! ' exclaimed Lyson.

True,' replied CIrcum. * Years ago I did
the late Sir Henry's son a little service, that so
nearly supplied him with a wife that it will take
a fortune at this time of day to prove she was
not a real one.'

But how would that affect the present
man ? ' asked Lyson.

Suppose said Circum, *the wife I helped

the youth to had children, and one of them
a son, who would set up a claim to the entailed
estate, what would you say to that ? '

Why said Lyson, * the bare possibility of
the thing warms my heart to think of it. But
where is the son ? '

That we have to discover,' replied Circum,
which I think would not be a very difficult
matter, supposing we could raise the needful to
cover a little travelling expenses to look for
him

'And so your fine scheme rests upon no
better foundation than that said Lyson sarcastically.
* Throw away money to look fora
child that perchance never existed

Not so said Circum. * Whether the boy
exists now I do not know, but that he did
exist I am well assured, as I know that, within a
year of the marriage, the young wife presented
the world with twins — a boy and a girl.'

Are you sure of that ? ' asked Lyson.

As sure as I am now sitting before you
was the reply. * I was a little short of money
at the time, and endeavoured to raise the wind
by a visit to the young gentleman at the village
where I had witnessed his marriage.'

Well, and what then ? ' said Lyson.

The gentleman was not to be found replied

Circum ; * and the silly girl with her twins
appealed to me for help, which brought my
profitable interest in the affair to an end, and
caused me to lose sight of the young family.
But with a little trouble and expense I could
renew my acquaintance, and lend you a helping
hand on, if not to fortune, at least to
revenge.'

And all on the chance,' said Lyson, ' after
nearly twenty years, of finding the twins
alive ? '

Only one of them,' argued Circum.
Whether the girl is alive or dead is of
little consequence.'

It does not appear a very promising case,'
said Lyson ; ' and I am as poor as a church
mouse. My remittance will be due in the
course of a week, but it is already nearly all
booked. Will you want much for your
search ? '

Not more than ten pounds at present.
I have an old friend now in Paris, who has
friends living near the village where the marriage
took place. With his aid I can inexpensive
make a searching inquiry.'

There is no doubt in this ? ' said Lyson
suspiciously.

No ; honour to the backbone.'

VOL. II. L

You shall have the ten pounds ; but woe to
you if you only attempt to deceive me.'

Fear nothing. Did you say in a week ?'

Yes ; and immediately afterwards I will
write to my dear old father-in-law for a trifle
more. I have not written to him for sometime
now, and only heard of him through his
friend here, who may not have acted quite
fairly between us. If I can only strike him
on the right key, he may send me the means
of sailing off briskly on our new course. If he
proves disagreeable, and orders his banker to
stop the supply, I must go over to Downend,
and have a word or two with him about this
Sir Edward, who, I suspect, with his connivance,
has been taking my place beside my wife,
as I know he once wished to do.'

Better and better,' cried Circum ; ' we will
attack him on two sides at once, and if we can
do nothing more, we can bleed him pretty freely
to keep us quiet.'

I think,' said Lyson thoughtfully, * I must
get you to go over first and see what they are
about. I can give you an introduction to my
father, with whom you can stop for a few days.
You will find my two amiable sisters there, who
think me little less than an angel. I will write
to them, and then, you may depend, they will

receive you with open arms. But talking of
angels reminds me that I have an engagement
to meet one at the cathedral door a few minutes
from this time. Write to your friend In Paris,
and v/e will talk over the affair again tomorrow.'


While this diabolical plot was being hatched
In Marseilles, Jesse, bent on the object he had
In view of discovering the parentage of Miss
Montag and her brother, called at the cottage
In the green lane, where he found Mrs Brown
In great trouble about her old friend Mrs Dicks,
whom we have known as Jasper's old crony.

Quite well yesterday,' she said, ' and with
her daughter Nancy busy about her work, and
to-day stretched out stiff and cold, ready for her
coffin.'

Poor old body ! ' said Jesse ; M did not
hear of her death.'

She's gone,' said Mrs Brown ; ' and although
she was a lltde touchy at times, she has left
many a worse woman behind her.'

How will their business go on now ?' said
Jesse. ' Will Nancy be able to manage it
alone ? '

She has just told me,' replied Mrs Brown,
that she doesn't mean to go on alone, for she
means to marry Jasper Motley.'

Jasper Motley ! ' echoed Jesse. ' What ! —
my brother's servant ? Why, she must be forty
years old, and he is not more than eighteen ! '

I told her, sir, that people would be talking
about it ; but she said that was her business,
and she didn't care a straw what people said —
that she meant to marry Jasper, and would
have done so before, only her mother wouldn't
let her speak to him about it'

'But what does Jasper say to it?' asked
Jesse.

I don't know, sir. He has a word for
everybody, and it is not easy to know what
he means. She said he was getting too old
for Mr Oliver, and that he should get a better
place. He is not likely to be won by her
beauty, but there is a good business, and I
believe her mother has left her some money,
and that may prove a little tempting to him.'

Here their talk was broken in upon by
Stephen Elvin, who rushed in from school,
ready to take down his dinner, as he said, ' in
no time,' that he might go out to play.

Dinner is not quite ready yet,' said Mrs
Brown. * Come in again presently.'

All right,' said the boy ; * go and make
myself more hungry ; ' and off he bounded from
the door as suddenly as he had approached it.

He seems pretty full of life remarked
Jesse.

Full of life, sir ! ' repeated Mrs Brown. * I
think he is life itself.'

And not over careful of it,' added Jesse.

No ; that he is not,' replied Mrs Brown.
'If he were, I should never have had him herewith
me ; that plunge into the river saved him
from the union.'

And at the same time saved the life of
Edmund Montag,' said Jesse.

Yes, and I can never think of it without
trembling.'

I heard an account of it when I was at
school ; but I believe I never had the full particulars,'
said Jesse.

It did not take five minutes about, sir,'
replied Mrs Brown. ' It happened one evening
after school, when Edmund and I were out fora
walk. As we were strolling along by the side
of the river, he stooped and leaned over the
edge of the bank to pick some flowers that were
growing near the water. I don't know how
it was, and I don't think I ever shall know.
Whether the bank gave way under his feet, or
he became giddy, I can't say, but all at once I
saw him stagger for a moment, and then fall
forward into the river. The current was strong

and the water deep, and although Edmund could
swim a little, he was carried away from the
bank, and would have been drowned, I believe,
had not the boy who has just left us suddenly
slipped down from a tree and plunged into the
river to his assistance.

We learnt afterwards that he had climbed
up the tree to make a swing from one of the
branches. He had the cord in his hand, and
leaving one end of it with me he floated like a
cork in the water with the other end to Edmund,
and called out to me, " Pull away, Mrs Brown,
and we will soon be back again."

How I pulled I don't know ; but as I said,
in five minutes it was all over, and they were
both dripping wet on the bank again.

Edmund thanked the boy very heartily, and
the more so as during the afternoon he had felt
obliged to report him to the headmaster for
having played off one of his mischievous tricks
upon a schoolfellow.

As soon as we reached the house, and Edmund
had changed his dress, he said he could
not rest until he had been to see if the boy had
gone home, and been properly cared for. His
mother was a poor widow in a very delicate
state of health, and did not live many years
afterwards. On her death-bed I, by desire of

Edmund, told her that he would take charge of
her boy when she was gone. The poor soul
died while blessing him for his goodness.'

And then Edmund gave him in charge to
you ? '

Yes,' replied Mrs Brown, ' and a blessing
has seemed to rest upon him ever since. He
is now, you know, sir, the second master in a
good school, and in a fair way, I hope, of rising
to a higher position.'

You are greatly attached to him ? '

I have reason to be, sir,' said Mrs Brown,
as she wiped the tears from her eyes, 'for he
has been very good to me.'

You had him in training many years ? '

Yes ; he came to me a baby child, and left
me but a few months since a full grown
man.'

He has much to be grateful for on account
of the care you took of him during his infancy.
Did he not sometimes wish to learn who his
parents were ? '

A few years since he appeared very anxious
to know all he could about them.'

But you could not give him a satisfactory
answer ? '

No, I could only tell him what every one
near the Hall knew.'

It seems very strange,' said Jesse, 'that no
marks could be found on their clothes to lead
to their identification ? '

'Ah ! poor things,' said Mrs Brown, ' they had
nothing on them worthy the name of clothes.
They were mere rags hanging about them, and
they did not appear to have ever been made
for them. I told Mr Lea, who came from
Lady Harewood to see them, that I thought
perhaps the poor woman in her distress had
sold their good clothes and bought the old rags
just to cover them, for she could scarcely hope
they would keep them warm.'

And what did Lea say ? ' asked Jesse.

Called me an old simpleton for imagining
such a thing.'

But had he formed any opinion of the matter
himself?' asked Jesse.

He said he supposed they were only common
tramps, and it was a pity there was so much
fuss made about them. I told him they had
not the skins of tramps, when he became very
angry, and told me that it was a pity that I
had not to go away into Germany to find out
who they were instead of him, as he supposed
I thought I could do the work better than he
could."

When do you expect to see Edmund again. ^'

I don't know, sir ; but I am sure he will
come as soon as he can.'

I should like to speak to him about your
little fellow Stephen, who, I see, is coming back
for his dinner.'

With a hop, skip, and a jump the boy came
up the garden walk, and, meeting the visitor at
the door, gave him a military salute and passed
into the cottage.

What Jesse had just heard tended to confirm
the opinion he had lately formed of Lea. Strolling
away from the door of Mrs Brown, he made
for the most retired part of the park. He
wished to be alone. He did not even require
the presence of his beloved Lizzie, so earnest
was he without loss of time to settle in his own
mind how he should attack the person of him
who, he believed, had the secret he wished to
discover hidden away in his memory. ' If it
were his son,' he thought, ' and he were still
alive, I should have but little trouble with him ;
but the elder is such a curious old stick, that I
don't quite know how best to handle him.'

I thought, when I began my inquiry this
morning, that if I could learn as much as I now
know, I would boldly charge Lea with his duplicity
in keeping as a secret from my father the
knowledge I am certain he must possess ; but

he seems very shaky, and if I attack him too
suddenly I may throw him into a fit or something
of the kind, when he would be unable to
tell me what, however unwillingly, I may get
from him by a gentler mode of treatment. I
wish I could speak to some one on the subject,
but I cannot, and therefore I must be content to
work it out alone.

^ If Lea knew the poor woman who died in the
park, he deserves — well, I will not say what ;
but if he knew the mother, he must know the
true history of the children. Oh dear ! I think
I cannot stretch out my patience much longer.
If he cannot satisfy me in every particular, he
can tell me much that will help me bravely on
in my investigations.

Perhaps if I were to call and see Mr Gordon,
he might be able to assist me. Doubtless he
buried the poor wanderer, and was interested
in her fate. I may not get much from him ;
but a little bit here and a little bit there, when
put together, may lead to some important result.
One thing I can learn from him, that is
certain. If there was anything strange in the
conduct of Lea at the time he must have remarked
it'

A few yards from the vicarage Jesse met Mr
Gordon, and, after having been complimented

on the benefit he had received from his visit to
Brighton, entered immediately on the object of
his visit by alluding to the lively little fellow he
had just parted from at the cottage in the lane.

As they entered the vicarage, Mr Gordon
said, —

I am told by some people who profess to
be skilled in the management of boys, that if
Stephen Elvin is left much longer with Mrs
Brown he will become the pest of the village.'

I think my father intends to consult Mr
Montag on the propriety of sending him away
to a school at a distance.'

Yes,' replied Mr Gordon ; ' he mentioned
the subject to me, and I was glad to hear he
proposed to consult Mr Montag.'

'It is very curious,' remarked Jesse, ' to
observe how far-reaching an act of kindness is.
Had my mother not made provision for Mr
Montag and his sister, the little fellow would
now most likely have been a pauper in the
union.'

Yes,' said Mr Gordon ; 'and we cannot be
too thankful that it is so.'

My mother's care seems to have been well
bestowed.'

I know no young man at the present
time,' replied Mr Gordon, 'who is likely to

make a better use of his advantages than
Mr Montag.'

It is very sad we can form no idea of his
family.'

Very,' said Mr Gordon ; ' it has been a
hopeless case since his first appearance here.
Your good mother was very anxious about it,
and I believe spent much time and money on
the inquiry.'

Did she employ trustworthy agents ? '

There can be no doubt of that,' replied Mr
Gordon, ' as the chief one was your father's old
servant. Poor old fellow, he was hardly fit for
the duty at his time of life ; and I think he has
to this day scarcely recovered from the anxiety
and labour it occasioned him.'

Have you ever conversed with him upon the
subject ?'

Yes — many times,' rejoined Mr Gordon ;
though not of late. He has pointed out tome
the trials he had to contend against,
as he daily met with disappointment that
at times quite disabled him. Still I must
confess — '

At this point the conversation was interrupted
by the entrance of a maid-servant with
a very red face, and in a state of considerable
excitement.

Please, sir,' she said, ' here is Nancy Dicks
wants to see you.'

'Did you ask her business?' inquired Mr
Gordon.

Yes, sir ; but she said her business was no
business of mine, and she would not tell me
what it was.'

Say I am engaged, and will see her another
time.'

I told her you where engaged, sir,' replied
the indignant maid ; * but she said she didn't
care for that. She wanted to see you, and she
must see you, and she would see you.'

To be taken by storm,' said Mr Gordon to
Jesse. ' Poor soul ! I suppose you know she
has just lost her mother. They were a curious
pair, but I believe they were in their way
attached to each other.*

I don't think they were at all, sir,' interposed
the maid.

'Very well,' said Mr Gordon ; ' tell her again
I am engaged, but if she wants to see me very
much she may come in.'

•' Master's too easy,' thought the maid, ' and
that makes the people so impudent when they
come to the house.' Nevertheless she obeyed,
and silently left the room. In a few seconds
she re-appeared, and, throwing the door wide

open, left the way clear for the entrance of
Nancy Dicks.

Had the gentlemen not been well acquainted
with her general appearance, they would have
doubtless looked with surprise upon the comical
figure before them. Nancy, though forty years
of age, was not more than four feet ten inches
in height ; but though nature had cut her short
in stature, she had been very liberal to her in
bone and muscle. She was not, as some people
said, as thick as she was long, but with half an
eye one might see she was of a good solid
shape and substance.

A round, red, fat face, with little twinkling
grey eyes, made her countenance not very prepossessing,
though it was generally covered
with an insinuating smile, or what was vulgarly
called a broad grin. On her head she wore a
large overlapping bonnet, much more common
fifty years since than in the present day. Of
her underclothing one could see nothing, as
from her neck to her feet she was shut up in a
man's great rough coat, with a high collar and a
towing cape. Her boots gave notice of her
approach, being of the hobnail kind.

A short black-thorn stick, with a bit of cord
attached to it, being an apology for a whip,
ornamented her left hand, while with her right

she appeared to be fumbling in her pocket for
some hidden treasure.

Sorry to trouble, sir,' said Nancy, as she
cleared the doorway, her face covered with her
most winning smile, ' but as mother is gone,
and I am left all alone, I mean to get
married.'

Yes,' said Mr Gordon, returning her smile.
• ' And I want you to marry me.'

Me,' said Mr Gordon, a little startled at the
request, hastily concluding that Nancy's late
trouble had damaged her wits.

I mean,' said Nancy, seeing that Mr Gordon
did not immediately follow up his me with
any other words, ' I mean, you see, sir, I want
you to tie me and Jasper together.'

Tie you together ! ' said Mr Gordon, purposely
appearing not to understand her.

Yes, marry us.'

Oh, you wish to marry Jasper ?'

Yes,' replied Nancy, * that's just what I do
wish, and what I mean to do. Mother's left me
all her money — three hundred pounds — and
I mean to have a husband, but my sisters, who
haven't got nothing, say I shan't, but I will for
all them.'

But your mother is not buried ? '

Oh, we will bury her first ; I only come

now to put the banns up, that my sisters may-see
what I mean to do.'

If that is all you had to tell me,' said Mr
Gordon, 'you need not have come to me. Had
you. given your notice to the clerk, it would
have been sufficient.'

*I did tell him,' said Nancy, 'but he only
laughed, and said he'd see to it. So I made
him write it down in his book, and I paid him
beforehand, that he might be quite sure I
meant what I said. And now, sir,' she continued,
in her most coaxing manner, ' if you
will please tell me what I shall have to pay
you I will settle that too, because you see, sir,
I don't want to have any mistake, and let my
sisters say, I told you the parson wouldn't
do it'

Keep your money,' said Mr Gordon, ' I
will remember you offered it to me. But tell
me, why did not Jasper do this for you ? '

Oh, he's a little shy-like, sir, and so I
thought I had better do it myself, as he might
make a blunder about it, because you see he
has not thought of it as I have.'

'You have been thinking of it for sometime,
then ? '

Oh yes, ever so long, sir, only mother
would not let me talk about it.'

And you are quite resolved now.'

Oh yes, sir, next Sunday week, please, for the
first time. I shall come to church on purpose to
see it's all right, and so I thank you, and bid you
good day, for Jasper is waiting for me outside.'

Good morning ! ' returned Mr Gordon.

As soon as she was gone, Jesse threw down
the paper he had held before his face to prevent
his laughing from being seen, and said, — •

If Jasper is taken captive by such a figure, I
shall be surprised.'

But the three hundred pounds ! '

The rascal, would he marry her for that ? '

It would not be a very singular case if he
did,' rejoined Mr Gordon.

And will you really marry them ? '

I do not see how I can avoid doing so, if
they attend to the direction laid down for their
guidance in the Prayer Book, and from Nancy's
manner I should think she has been studying it.
But I must make some inquiry about them,
and if I find reason to think their union would
prove an unhappy one, endeavour to prevent
them from proceeding any further in the matter.
Nancy may have a soft head, but she has given
us proof that she has a strong will, and it is very
possible no one will be able to turn her from
her purpose.'

VOL. II. M

You were saying something when she
entered observed Jesse, in connection with
Lea's investigation of the case of the poor
woman and her children.'

Yes,' replied Mr Gordon, * that there were
some points in the old man's statement which
I could not understand, but as you appear interested
in his proceedings, I will, if you like,
take an opportunity of meeting him with you
in one of his little walks, and hear him go over
his tale once more.'

His account of his journey,' said Jesse, 'will
doubtless prove very entertaining to me, as I
do not remember to have ever heard him speak
one word on the subject. I hope it will not
bore you to hear the old story over again ? '

It will not do that,' said Mr Gordon ; ' but we
may have to wait a day or two for a favourable
interview, as you do not wish to make a very
formal affair of it.'

Oh no, certainly not,' said Jesse.

O sooner had Lyson secured his
quarterly stipend than he turned
to the consideration of the letter
he had resolved to send to his father,
preparatory to another he purposed writing to
Mr Cresswell. It was some time since he had
last addressed his father, and when he sat
down to commence his task, he discovered that
it was likely to give him a considerable amount
of trouble.

If his object had been merely to write a
friendly letter to his father or his sisters, the
case would have been very different. He knew
that anything he might say to them would be
scanned by friendly eyes. That if the sentences
he used would bear two meanings,
they would fix upon the most favourable one,
and that any excuse he might offer for past
neglect in his correspondence, or of the cause

of his present want of money, would be received
by his sisters, at least, without question
as a veritable truth.

But on the present occasion his letter must
be written in a tone and manner that critical
and unfriendly eyes might look upon without
suspicion of the real object he had in view —
that object being to get Mr Cresswell's purse
more readily opened to his hand. By way of
introduction, he might beg his father or sister
to send him a remittance, though that could be
only as a matter of form, as he well knew he
had already drained them to the last pound.

The letter would doubtless be shown to Mr
Cresswell, and hence the necessity of great
carefulness being bestowed upon its composition
; and he was even doubtful if its exhibition
would end there — whether it would not fall
under the eye of Sir Edward Harewood, of
whom he had at the same time the most intense
fear and bitter hatred. Let a man injure
you, and he will hate you for ever, says the
proverb, and this Lyson was unconsciously
proving as he meditated on the kind of letter
he would write.

^ It Is bad enough,' he thought, ' to be overhauled
by the old man, but to be picked to
pieces by that pompous fellow, Harewood, is

more than I can stand. Yet the letter must be
written, that I may have the means of carrying
out my venture of chipping his well-plumed
wings. Let me but get hold of a descendant
of the late Sir Henry, and, legitimate or illegitimate,
I will lead him a dance that, before I
have done with him, he shall be as poor as I
am. If he chooses to go out of his way to
fight against me, I will take him on his own
terms and repay him with interest. If I fail in
that, I will attack him through my wife. My
sisters have let me in a little to the notion of
the kind of relationship that exists between
them, and then I have his letters, in which he
treats of his love for his dear Edith. Certainly
it was before I married her. But what of that ?
Can I not show that she was no sooner my wife
than I made an unpleasant discovery, and that
he induced her to leave my house and return
to England to live near him, that he might the
more easily carry on his illicit intercourse with
her ? That, I think, will make about as pretty
a case to be brought into court as one might
expect to meet with in the course of a century.
Armed with my two guns, if I do not bringdown
my prey, I have studied men and women
to little purpose, and may as well go back
again to my cradle. Two or three thousand a-

year is the least they can offer me, and the
least I will take, to keep me from plunging
one into poverty, and covering the name of the
other with shame and infamy. But this is all
beside the question in hand. My present
business is to write a letter to my father, which
may induce him to go to Mr Cresswell and get
me the means of commencing war against my
old rival. He has heaps of gold, which he has
not the heart to spend himself, or give me the
chance of doing, further than by my little quarterly
driblets, for which I am to hold myself asa
banished man from wife and country. Now,
then, for a start i '

Having written a few lines, he stopped, and
muttered, —

No ; that will not do ; I must try again.'

After repeating this three or four times, and
angrily tearing up and destroying the paper, heat
last succeeded in some measure in accomplishing
his purpose.

The letter was finished, stamped, and ready
for the post ; still he was not satisfied with his
performance. He turned it over in his hand,
and appeared on the point of tearing it open.
He did not, however, do so ; but muttering,
It must go,' put on his hat, and walked out to
the office.

Great was the commotion the letter occasioned
on its reaching its destination at the
vicarage of Downend. The vicar was by this
time barely the shadow of his former self
Rheumatic pains flying about his body, with an
occasional touch of the gout in his feet and
hands, had reduced him to a very unwholesome
and shaky condition. Nor can his mental
faculties be brought more favourably under
notice. His chief occupation appeared now to
consist in mourning over the past, complaining
of the present, and dreading the future. He
was altogether in a pitiable plight ; whether
deservedly so or not, we will not venture to
determine.

There was a time when he could take his
bottle of port after dinner, and talk of the ease
with which he could perform his duties ; but
now the control of his house and the parish
rested chiefly upon his daughters, while the
offices of the church were too often left almost
entirely in the inexperienced hands of a young
curate. Still he seemed to imagine that the
whole burden rested upon his own shoulders ;
and hence all that came before him met with
words expressive of his dissatisfaction, if every
occurrence had not been dealt with in accordance
to his fancy.

From this it will be seen how unable he was
to cope with his heartless and designing son,
and to judge how little benefit was likely to
result from an application to Mr Cresswell for
money.

With trembling hands he opened the letter,
and struggled on through a few lines to make
himself acquainted with its general contents ;
then, wearied with the exertion, he gave it to
his eldest daughter, sayings

is nothing new in it that I can see ;
all the same as ever — money, money, money ! '

Shall I read it out, papa ? ' said Miss
Lyson.

Yes, yes,' murmured her father ; ' but it is
of no use. He is not coming home ; he only
wants money, [and I have none to send him.
It is all gone — his and mine and yours.'

I think,' said Miss Lyson, after running
her 'eye over the letter, ' he does not expect
you to send him any ; he only wants you to
speak to Mr Cresswell to render him a little
extra assistance. Poor fellow ! You know he
is always very unfortunate with his money ;
and we are unfortunate, too, that we are notable
to assist him.'

Then, without further preface, she read the
letter through.

I do not think said Dorothy, the younger
sister, ' that he is at all unreasonable in what he
says. He merely asks you to do him a little
service in speaking to Mr Cresswell. You
know as well as we do that that gentleman is
very rich, to whom the difference of a thousand
pounds is not of more consequence than a
pound to us.'

Say ten thousand pounds,' interposed Miss
Lyson, ' and I believe you will be much nearer
the truth.'

Yes ; I agree with you,' said Dorothy ;
and all that he requires papa to do is to go
and beg Mr Cresswell to let him have only a
few paltry pounds.'

And how can I do that ? ' argued her father.
You know I can hardly walk across to the
church, and I have no carriage now. I do wish
my boy had never gone away.'

But you were willing that he should go ? '
said Miss Lyson.

I never thought he would stop away so
long,' whined the father.

As you are not able to go,' said Miss
Lyson, * shall we send to Mr Cresswell and
beg him to come to you ? '

I don't know,' said the vicar peevishly ; * I
don't want to be troubled. I am not equal to

It. Cannot you go to Mr Cresswell yourself ?
You know all about it as well as I do.'

Oh, papa, how could I go upon such an
errand ! '

And how could I ask him to come here''
sighed the father.

You do not like to go alone,' said Dorothy ;
but how would it be if I were to offer to go
with you ? '

Yes, yes, go both of you,' said the vicar,
*and take the letter with you. Perhaps Mr
Cresswell will listen favourably to you, but I
know he would not to me if I were to send to
him to come here.'

Then we will go,' said Miss Lyson, ' for it
must never be said that we saw our poor
brother in need, and did not go a step out of
our way to help him. Shall we give Mr Cress-well
any message from you ? '

You may say to him that if he can oblige
you, I shall be very glad.'

I hope we shall not find Edith with her
father,' said Miss Lyson to her sister, just as
they were setting out on their charitable errand.

Oh, I dare say she is out,' replied Dorothy.
She is to be seen, you know, on the road to-whitfield
almost every day.'

Yes, and more's the pity,' said Miss Lyson,

and I only hope she will not quite forget she
is a married woman

*And so do I,' rejoined Dorothy; 'but It
looks very strange, I think, to see her on that
road so often where she must expect to meet
Sir Edward Harewood, and he a single man.
I do not like it at all, and I do not think our dear
brother would If he knew It. I just gave him
a little hint of how things were going on in my
last letter, and I shall do so again when I write.'

We must not allude to anything of the kind
to-day,' observed Miss Lyson, ' though I must
say I should like to make Edith understand
that I think she is very cruel, if nothing worse,
in not sending some of her superfluous cash to
her own husband, who has been so much imposed
upon.*

With this good-natured, fair-dealing spirit
the two sisters approached Elston Court, whereto
their great mortification, on their introduction
to Mr Cresswell, they found not only his
wife and daughter present, but Sir Edward
Harewood and his son Oliver.

The usual greetings over, Miss Lyson said
rather timidly to Mr Cresswell, —

Papa gave us a message for you. He
would have called himself, but he is too weak
and poorly to leave the house to-day.'

Something about church matters ? ' said Mr
Cresswell inquiringly.

No. not exactly,' replied Miss Lyson, and
then, after a pause, she added, * he said he
hoped I should meet you alone.*

We have, as you see, none but friends here,'
said Mr Cresswell.

My father,' rejoined Miss Lyson, ' is very
nervous and a little exacting to-day, and if I
tell him I did not press upon you to see me
alone, I am afraid he will be very angry. Do
you not think so ? ' she said, addressing her
sister.

Oh yes, I am certain he would be very
angry,' replied Dorothy.

Then, to prevent discord,' said Mr Cress-well
good-naturedly, ' if our friends will excuse
us, and you will go with me to the library, we
will comply with your father's request.'

May I come too ? ' asked Dorothy.

As you please,' replied Mr Cresswell in his
former tone.

They were absent but a very few minutes,
and when they returned there was a look of
dissatisfaction on the faces of each of the ladies,
while on Mr Cresswell's were traces of excitement,
which he vainly strove to hide from his
wife and Edith.

As papa will be expecting us back said
Miss Lyson, in a thick, unsteady voice, ' I
am afraid we must not lengthen out our unexpected
visit

With that the bell was rung, and the two
sisters again left the room.

Rather a formal finish,' said Edith. ' What
have you done to them, papa ? '

Mr Cresswell looked at Oliver, who sat near
in a listening attitude.

Sir Edward, who was not slow to catch his
meaning, immediately said to Oliver, —

I wish you would go out and see how the
weather is likely to be for the next hour or
two. If you go to the top of the hill yonder,
you will have a good view over a large expanse
of country.'

As soon as Oliver was gone, Mr Cresswell,
addressing his wife, said, —

I did not speak before Oliver, for a reason
you will understand when I tell you that the
business upon which I left you' was concerning
a letter the vicar has received from Marseilles.
Of which letter I would not say
another word if I did not feel assured my
silence would give you more uneasiness than
anything I have to tell you. I know, although
I have not spoken of it, how anxiously during

the last few days you have been watching the
letter-bag. My blunder has opened your eyes
to what is passing, and I cannot close them
again.'

Is the letter from the vicars son ? ' asked
Sir Edward.

*Yes,' was the reply, 'and, as you may expect,
upon the old theme. He is in difficulties
again, and has written to his father for money,
and on his not being able to supply him with it,
requested him to come to me with his letter.'

'And you answered without hesitation, I
trust,' said Sir Edward.

Yes, I begged the ladles to tell their father
that I could hold no communication with his
son through him. That he had been informed
that if he had anything he wished to say to me
not to use a third person for the purpose. So
you must understand,' he said, addressing his
wife and daughter, ' that nothing new has occurred
to make you look so alarmed and
anxious.'

It makes me very wretched,' said Edith,
to know you are so worried on my account.'

And your mother, too,' said Mr Cresswell
playfully, * to see that you worry yourself so
much about me.'

I wish I could take the whole affair off

your hands,' said Sir Edward ; ' but that is
impossible.'

Many thanks for your kind wish,' rejoined
Mr Cresswell. ' It is right that we should help
to bear one another's burdens, and as I have
sent rather a harsh message to our poor suffering
vicar, I think I will take a walk and see
him, that he may know I did not wish to distress
him.'

And Oliver and I,' said Sir Edward, ' will,
at the same time, set out for home. When
may we expect to see you at Woodfield ? '

Oh, very soon,' replied Mr Cresswell in a
rather absent manner.

Then let it be tomorrow for luncheon.'

Will you be able to go '^, ' said Mr Cresswell
to his wife.

Yes, if it is to accompany you,' was the
reply.

Then I think you may expect us,' said Mr
Cresswell ; * but you must not make your
luncheon a dinner, or we shall be in trouble
with our people when we return, because we
have left our appetites behind.'

That is Mr Cresswell's nonsense,' said his
wife ; * he wishes us to think he is in excellent
spirits.'

Oh yes, I know him of old,' said Sir Edward;

and so they parted with smiles on their lips, in
the vain endeavour to persuade one another
that they were all very happy.

For some days after Jesse's conversation
with Mr Gordon his patience was sorely tried.
The old steward fell ill with an attack of gout,
and was confined to his room. His temper, as
we have seen, was not naturally of the most
amiable character, and this attack rendered him
more than ever difficult to deal with. He
seemed thoroughly impressed with the idea
that every one in the village and Hall was
pleased to know that he was out of the way,
and loud were his complaints of how the under
servants would be going on wasting and spoiling
no one knew how much, now that he was
not able to get about to look after them.

Sir Edward turned a deaf ear to him. He
had full confidence in Mrs Gibson, and he
learnt from her that the gout and his temper
had more to do with his complaints of the
servants than any misconduct on their part.
Jesse and Oliver occasionally paid a visit to the
sufferer ; the former, it must be confessed, from
a slightly interested motive, while Oliver did it
out of pure good nature and pity. Jesse
endeavoured to turn his visits to account by
the many allusions he made to the incidents Lea

must have met with in his foreign travels.
But the gout held, or seemed to hold, the
mastery over his thoughts, and rendered all
Jesse's attempts to extract information from
him useless.

Oliver was more fortunate with the patient.
In his simple way he strove to be amusing
without being at all curious about past events.
His conversation had special reference to
incidents of the day in which one or more
of the servants was generally concerned.

Your deputy, Taylor, seems a trustworthy
fellow,' said Oliver.

Does he ? ' retorted the old steward. ' I am
very glad to hear it, and I only hope he is what
he seems to be.'

Your poor son had a good opinion of him, I
think.'

My son ?' rejoined the old man. ' Don't talk
to me of him. He was always ready to be
fooled by any one, and that made it so much the
worse for me.'

Worse for you ! ' repeated Oliver.

Yes ; don't you see he made everything I
said or did rough and hard. But well, well ;
perhaps it is all right that it was so. I should
have missed him more if he had been like me.
Oh dear ! where can that whipper-snapper of a

VOL. II. N

doctor be ; I wanted him an hour ago. But
instead of his coming here to give me something
to take away this horrible pain, I daresay
he is, with a long face, hanging over the couch
of some young lady, who has pricked her finger
and fainted from the loss of a quarter of a drop
of blood. Oh dear, oh dear! will you just lift up
the bed-clothes from my toe ; they have settled
down upon it like a sack of sand. No, no, not
so ! ' he exclaimed ; * you will murder me if you
do that.*

Oliver, alarmed at the old man's violence,
drew back from the bed, and was looking for
some excuse for his immediate retreat from the
room, when the old man whined out, ' Oh dear,
oh dear ! it is very hard that I should have no
one but you to care for me. Do speak to your
father, and ask him to take the doctor to task
for not coming to me before this time of day,
and—'

What more he would have said was cut short
by the entrance of the gentleman in question.

Ah, Mr Oliver ! ' he said, on entering,
very good of you to pay your old servant
a visit. Well, and how is it with the
patient ? '

I am afraid he is very poorly,' said Oliver.

Poorly 1 ' screamed out the old man ; * I am

mad with pain, and you leave me here till the
middle of the day, as if I was nothing better
than a dog

*You are getting through the day pretty
fast said the doctor ; ' why, It Is but just ten
o'clock

Well retorted the patient ; ' then it only
wants two hours of the time. And now you
are come, what are you going to do for me ? '

Feel your pulse and look at your tongue,
and—'

Feel my pulse and look at my tongue ! '
cried the old steward. ' What have they todo
with my toe ? Give me something to
ease that or cut It off.'

Would you like me to try what a little
cutting would do ? ' asked the doctor with
assumed gravity, as he took his case of instruments
out of his pocket.

Don't you be a fool,' said the old man,
Remember I knew you when you were a little
chap.'

Come, come,* said the doctor, ' we must not
travel backwards, or I shall have to remind you
of some of your odd ways.'

What odd ways ? ' retorted the old man
fiercely.

When the gout is gone said the doctor, * I

will answer your question ; but now, tell me
how you feel.'

Very bad,' was the reply.

But if you will be patient — '

Patient ! ' exclaimed the old man, * I am as
patient as an angel — oh ! oh ! oh ! What are
you about ?

I want to see your foot.'

Don't touch it 1 don't touch it ! You will
drive me mad.'

You will alarm the house,' said the doctor.

And well I may, if you pull me about like a
log of wood.'

Why, I have not even touched you.'

But you look as if you would. Birds have
wings to fly away from their enemies, and mice
have holes in which they can run, but there is
no escape from a doctor when he gets a man on
a sick-bed.'

But we will not call yours a sick-bed. It is
only one of your old attacks, and will soon pass
away. You must get some one to come and sit
with you, and tell you what is going on in the
world ; then you will be well again.'

But where shall I get the some one ? '
I will look out for a man, and he shall bring
you something to take when the pain is very
great.'

I will have no man of yours here,' said the
old steward savagely ; ' you are too much forme
as it is. Send your stuff, but don't expect
me to keep your messenger.'

Very well,' said the doctor, after a little
more conversation in the same strain had
passed between them ; ' it shall be as you
wish. Good morning.'

As soon as he was gone, Oliver, who had
been looking on with a blanched face while
the contest between the doctor and his patient
was in progress, said, —

Do you know. Lea, a thought has just
struck me that I have some one who would
just suit you. It is my man Jasper. I could
spare him for a good part of the day.'

Jasper ! Why, the fellow would drive me
wild.'

'Not if I were to tell him how much you
suffer, and beg him to be attentive to you.
If you will try him you can send him away
again if he does not answer.'

Without offending you ? '

Oh yes ; do not think a word about that.'

Then let him come, sir.'

Bent on his good-natured mission, Oliver
left the room, and shortly afterwards a gentle
knock was heard at the door.

Come In,' cried the old steward.

Jasper noiselessly opened the door, and
walked softly into the room.

*Why do you come creeping in as if you
meant to murder me ? ' cried the old man.

Mr Oliver said I was to be sure and not
make a noise. What can I do for you,
sir?'

'Just keep where you are, and tell me what
rascality you have been up to lately.'

None, sir.'

That's a lie,' said the old steward, ' or you
must be greatly changed within the last few
days.'

I think I am a little changed, sir.'

And what has changed you ? '

I don't know, sir,' said Jasper ; ' but I feel
something here which I never felt before.'

As he spoke he placed his hand languidly
on his left side.

Why, that's just over your heart.'

'Is it, sir ? Then that's why I feel so
queer.'

Heart disease ! heart disease ! ' cried the
old steward. * You must not stop here ; you
will frighten me to death. Go to the doctor
and ask him If It is safe for you to be about
alone, and then ask your master to come and

tell me. Go away — go away! You may die
at any moment.'

No ; I am sound enough in health said
Jasper. ' It isn't what you think it is.'

Then what in the world is the matter with
you ?'

*Why, you see, sir, Mr Oliver told me
the other day I was getting too old for him,
and since that something has happened to me.'

Well, what is it ? ' was the impatient inquiry.
Have you got another place ? '

No, sir, but Nancy Dicks wants to marry
me, and that has made me queer here and
again his hand was placed tenderly on his
heart.

'Now, Jasper!' stormed the old steward,
*if you think you can play off your tricks
upon me because I am a prisoner here, it
won't do ; so don't you try it on.'

But it's all true,' said Jasper thoughtfully.

Do you mean to tell me that you are going
to marry Nancy Dicks ?'

She wants to marry me, and I'm thinking
about it.'

Why, she's old enough to be your mother.
If you, you foolish fellow, wish to get married,
why don't you look out for a girl of your own
age?'

Girls of my age said Jasper ruefully,
unless they are very poor, don't care to look
much at me, and if they did, they might not
have three hundred pounds of their own todo
as they like with as Nancy — '

Nancy worth three hundred pounds ! ' cried
the old steward, interrupting him ; ' you have
lost your wits, Jasper.'

No, sir,' replied Jasper, ' it's only my heart.
You know Nancy's mother is dead, and Nancy
is to have all her money.'

All to her ? Has she left it all to her ? '

Yes,' replied Jasper, more cheerfully, * and
her business too, and her sisters are to have
nothing to do with it.'

^ And so you, you young scamp, you think
you will marry Nancy ? '

^ You see, sir, she wants me to, and I have
been thinking it would not be right to disappoint
her.'

Why, she is more than half a fool.'

She says I may have the money and the
business if I will have her.'

And what do your fellows say about it ? '

Oh, I don't care for them,' said Jasper, ina
defiant tone.

HE continuance for a week of the old
steward's attack of gout proved a
sore trial to Jesse. He felt that he
was placed in a false position to
every one around him. To act in a manner
that had even the appearance of dishonesty
was foreign to his nature. ' Let me know
my duty, and I will, through good report and
evil report, endeavour to do It,' was his favourite
maxim, and which he strove to keep constantly
before him.

His love for Miss M on tag was still the all-pervading
subject of his thoughts, and how
he could work out the problem of her birth
became the task even of his dreams. Night
and day he meditated upon the best means
of escaping from his unpleasant dilemma. His
father was still as ever trusting and kind, and
it vexed him to his very soul when he thought

of the return he was making of his confidence.
Again and again he resolved to speak to him,
and confessing his love for Miss Montag, throw
himself upon his indulgence, but he was as
often, by some trifling cause, diverted from
his purpose.

I wish I could share that old man's gout
with him,' he thought, * so that it might shorten
the time of his confinement to his room, and
get him out for his usual walk, then I might
have a chance of obtaining the information
I require. I am now like a caged tiger, and
can only turn and turn about to no purpose.
I cannot stand this much longer. Even Lizzie
will see how deficient I am in resolution.
Every time I meet her eyes they seem to ask
me if I have spoken to my father. I answer
No, but I will speak to him, do not fear,"
and I believe she does not fear, but like me
she is ashamed of our clandestine meetings,
which, doubtless, a little open dealing on my
part would render unnecessary.'

One morning, on paying a visit to the old
steward, he found him so much better that he
suggested his getting downstairs once more
and seeing some of his old friends.

I have no friends that care about me.'

Oh yes, you have ; there is the vicar, Mr

Gordon, he must be an old friend, as you
have lived near to each other for so many
years

And why should he care for me ? I have
nothing to give him for his church.'

Well,' said Jesse, * as soon as you can get
downstairs I shall ask him to pay you a visit.
I am glad to see you so much better, but I
suppose you must keep quiet for a day or two
longer. We will hear what the doctor has to
say about it presently.'

He did not stop for further conversation, but,
going to his own room and equipping himself
for a struggle with briar and bramble, took his
gun and left the Hall. He did not inquire for
his father or Oliver ; nor did he take his usual
path to the keeper's house, but, skirting the
wood in the opposite direction, reached a path
that led through an ornamental part of the
ground, where the wood, with its stately elms
and acres of underwood, had given place to
various kinds of shrubs from all parts of the
world.

Was it a mere accident that took him there,
and placed him by the side of Miss Montag, on
a rustic seat under the foliage of an evergreen
oak ? Alas, no ! By earnest persuasion he
had induced her to walk with little Georgie

in that particular direction, for the purpose of
meeting him, that they might speak freely together
of their present situation, after he had
told her, as he purposed doing, the main points
of what he had heard from the two gentlemen
at Brighton.

His patience and his high spirit had alike
yielded to the pressure cast upon them. He
had resolved not to tell Miss Montag anything
of what he had heard until every shadow of
doubt had passed away. And here he was now,
in the midst of his doubts, about to arrest her
attention by a half discovered story, which
could do nothing but fill her with anxiety, not
only respecting the future, but the past also.
While the nobleness of spirit that had made
him resolve not to act in any way towards his
father, as if he feared to let him look into
his heart, had for the time almost deserted
him.

But thus far he had not openly transgressed
any expressed command of his father, or
induced Lizzie to do anything that could bring
a blush of shame upon her cheek. Nor had he
the slightest intention of doings so. He was as
earnest as ever to set himself right with his
father, but, in his inexperience, he was approaching
a precipice of which he did not even dream,

and over which he might fall, without one note
of alarm to warn him of his danger.

How would it be if some busy-body had
tracked his steps to the bench under the evergreen
oak, and carried the news to the ears of
Sir Edward ? With what confidence could
Jesse ever hope to be trusted again, when he
had himself shown so little confidence in a kind
and indulgent father? Such thoughts had
heretofore been present in his mind, but they
were there no longer. As he sat by the side of
his beloved one, and said funny things to
Georgie, who was climbing up on one knee
and sliding down from the other, he was one of
the happiest of the happy, and was only recalled
to the business in hand by Lizzie observing,
You said you had something to tell me when
you proposed that I should meet you here.'

Yes ; and now if you will listen,' replied
Jesse, ' I will tell you, not all that I could wish,
but all that I am at present able.'

But instead of quietly listening, she started
suddenly from her seat and clasped the child in
her arms. A gun had been discharged within
a few paces of the spot, and she expected every
moment to see Sir Edward standing before
them. But she was happily soon undeceived.
It was only Dixon, who, in answer to Jesse's

inquiry of what he had fired at, said it was only
a weasel, and he believed he had settled him.

Are you here alone ?' asked Jesse.

No, sir ; Sir Edward and Mr Oliver are
close at hand.'

Take away ! take away ! George don't like
weasels ! ' screamed the child.

There is none to hurt you here said Jesse,
but perhaps you would be quite as safe at
home. Please tell Smith that I shall be round
with him at the appointed time. He is not
with my father, is he ?' he added to Dixon.

No ; I think he is waiting for you at home,
sir,' replied Dixon.

As he finished speaking they were confronted
by Sir Edward and Oliver.

The father looked surprised, while Oliver
said, * Hallo, Jesse ! what are you doing here ?
I thought you were out with Smith ; he told us
just now that he was waiting for you.'

You came round this way by chance,' said
Sir Edward.

Jesse hesitated for a moment, and then said,
No, father, I did not.'

Miss Montag, with the child in her arms, was
in the act of moving away when her step was
arrested by Sir Edwards who said, * Stop one
moment, I will not detain you long.' He then

having directed Oliver and Dixon to go on to
the wood, continued, ' It may have been mere
chance that has brought you two young people
together here ; but, so or not, I trust it is the
last time, as it is the first, that I shall find you
thus together. I think I need not remind you
that we are living in a very censorious world

Father,' said Jesse, ' the world may say what
It pleases ; I care not for it. But if your finding
us here alone offends you I am very sorry.'

It would rather grieve than offend me,'
replied Sir Edward, ' if I thought my son Jesse
could act an unworthy part. Do not let me
detain you. Miss Montag. If I find it necessary,
I will speak to you alone at some future
time.'

Miss Montag, covered with confusion, was
about to make an attempt to reply, when Jesse
interposed and said, 'It is for me to explain.
Go ; go, Lizzie. I will tell my father how
it happened that we met here.' As soon as she
was gone he turned to his father and said, * Is
it strange that I should love her .'^ '

Love her ! ' repeated Sir Edward.

Yes,' replied Jesse ; ' love her most truly.'
If I do not think it strange to hear you say
so,' replied Sir Edward, ' I think it is most
unfortunate. What have I done to you, Jesse,

that you should have treated me thus ? In
what have I shown a want of confidence in you
that you have shown you have so little in me ? '

Father,' replied Jesse, 'you have spoken the
same words my conscience has been saying tome
ever since my return from Brighton.'

And why have you not listened to it and
acted on its prompting ? ' asked Sir Edward.

I have listened to it,' replied Jesse passionately,
' and have resolved to open my heart to
you, but I have waited till I could show you
that Miss Montag is worthy of all the love I
could bestow upon her.'

This is indeed most unfortunate,' said Sir
Edward. 'Jesse,' he continued, in a broken
voice, ' you speak of opening your heart tome.
My dear boy, it should never have been
closed. Ask yourself. Is it the return you
should have made me ? When did you ever
find my heart closed to you, when I thought
you needed advice or counsel ? How can you
excuse yourself for the injury you have done
yourself and me ? '

I have no excuse to offer,' replied Jesse,
'in loving Miss Montag. I do not feel that
I have committed a crime. If I have, it is
one I could not avoid. I loved her before I
knew it myself. How then could I ask you

if I might love her ? Do the birds in springtime
ask permission to sing, or the flowers to
burst into blossom when wooed by the summer
sun ? '

You are growing a little romantic, Jesse
said his father, ' and I cannot follow you in
your flights of fancy, but if you can for a
few minutes act as the reasonable being I have
hitherto hoped you were, we will, as we stroll
homewards, look at the affair as it will appear to
the world, should it come to its knowledge.'

Hang the world ! ' cried Jesse. ' I do not
care how it appears in its eyes.'

Well, then, to come nearer home. Let me
say how it appears to me.'

I am very sorry that I did not speak to
you when I first made the discovery.'

A nd I am very sorry too,' said his father ;
but come, let us look at the case as it now
stands before us. Who are you and who is
Miss Montag ? Will your position permit
you to take a wife from so low a grade ?
Supposing a person under similar circumstances
to yourself were married, would he
like, when he entered on the active business
of life, to be looked upon as a single man, or
one who dared not take his wife into the
society of his friends ? '

VOL. II. O

I do not know such a person,' said Jesse.

And I trust I do not,' replied Sir Edward ;
but tell me, Jesse, how long has the present
state of things existed ? '

If you mean how long I have loved Miss
Montag I cannot say, for I do not know myself,
but If you only mean how long it is since
it found expression in words, I have to go
back to a few days before I left Brighton.'

Do I understand you to say you met Miss
Montag at Brighton ? '

Yes,' replied Jesse, ' and there discovered
that my love was reciprocated, and, but for
an incident that occurred there that day, on
my return I should have come direct to you
and told you all.'

And may I ask you to tell me the nature of
the incident that could thus thrust itself between
our hearts, and make you treat me as a
stranger ? '

'It is nothing wrong,' said Jesse, 'but at
present I cannot tell you, as it would be useless
or worse.'

What ! still doubtful of your best friend,
Jesse ? ' said his father very mournfully.

Father,' cried Jesse, ' I am not doubtful.
I have unbounded confidence in your goodness
and judgment, but you must . know that

if our meeting here has been a surprise to you'
it has not been less so to me. To - morrow
I proposed coming to you and confessing my
love, even though you might have answered
me with a curse on my folly.'

A curse on your folly ? ' said Sir Edward.

I should have felt your censure as a curse,'
said Jesse.

Then you would have judged me harshly; but
come, let us endeavour to understand each other.
Whatever course I may deem it my duty to take
in this painful affair, you must not look upon meas
an enemy. We will say no more about it at
present, but follow the counsel of the old adage
sleep upon it. I only ask you to give me
your word that you will not see Miss Montag
again until I have spoken to her, and that, I
promise you, shall be early tomorrow morning.'

That is repaying me in my own coin,' said
Jesse, with a faint smile, ' but I must not
complain.'

And for the present, as far as words are
concerned, we will treat it as an old forgotten
story. Were you not to meet Smith this
morning ?'

Yes,' replied Jesse, ' but I think I must not
go to his house to-day, or perchance my word
will be broken.'

I will go with you said his father. ' Probably
we shall meet him on the way. He
knows nothing of what you have told me, I
trust ? '

No, nothing,' replied Jesse.

They had gone but a few steps when they
sa Oliver with Smith and Dixon In the distance
coming towards them. On meeting they
learnt that Oliver and Dixon had come upon a
trail of what appeared to them evidence that
strangers had been upon the spot a short time
previously, and they were then taking Smith
to the place for a closer investigation.

True to his promise, Sir Edward was early
the next morning at the keeper's house, and to
his great satisfaction found Miss Montag there
alone. Smith he learnt was out with his men,
and his wife, after having sent off her elder
children to school, had taken George with her
to the village to do a little shopping.

Sir Edward commenced the conversation by
saying,—

I am glad to find you alone. Miss Montag,
as I wish to speak privately to you upon a
subject in which we are both doubtless much
interested.'

Miss Montag, surprised at the gentleness of
his manner, endeavoured to answer, but her

tongue would not obey her will, and perforce
she remained silent. She felt the hour had
come she had looked forward to with so much
dread, and with it a thousand regrets for the
past and of fears for the future.

Do not think,' continued Sir Edward, ' that
I have come to you under the influence of unreasonable
anger. Since I saw you yesterday,
I have heard from my son that he is chiefly to
blame for your, to say the least of it, indiscreet
meeting in the shrubbery. But I think you
must know that it is very necessary you should
be careful of your reputation, and avoid placing
yourself in an equivocal position.'

I am very sorry. Sir Edward,' said Miss
Montag, * that I have offended you,' at length
finding her voice, and bursting into tears.

I may repeat to you,' rejoined Sir Edward,
that I told my son yesterday I am not so much
offended as I am grieved. I do not wish to
say an unkind word to either of you, but I must
speak out, and plainly. I will not charge you
with wilful deception. I trust that of which I
have to complain has arisen from thoughtlessness
rather than wickedness. You are well
aware of the terms on which you are living
here. The secret of your childhood, as far as
we could follow it, has not been kept from you.

You know that the late Lady Harewood for
years indulged the hope that she would be able
to unravel the mystery of your first appearance
in the park, but she died without making the
desired discovery. The charge she left me,
I think you must be aware, I have not shrunk
from. Neither your education, nor that of
your brother, has been neglected ; and I am
happy to say your brother has fulfilled my most
sanguine expectation of what I looked for from
him ; and although I may not have appeared to
take so much interest in your welfare, I have
been no unobservant witness of your conduct ;
and until yesterday — '

Please, Sir Edward,' broke in Miss Montag,
before you condemn me — '

You must listen to what I have to say to
you,' said Sir Edward, interrupting her in turn.
I say until yesterday not a single doubt
crossed my mind respecting the position you
would occupy at no distant time, either as
housekeeper to your brother or the wife of one
of my tenants.'

You have always been very good to me
sobbed the poor girl ; ' but I did not wish to
leave Mrs Smith.'

Nor should I have wished to hurry you
away,' said Sir Edward, ' if the present unhappy

incident had not occurred ; but you must
be aware how very different the case is now.
You are still young, and my son has not yet
commenced his career in life. I am sorry to be
obliged to speak so plainly to you, but you
have left me no choice. Neither of you know
enough of the world, or of your own hearts,
to be left to follow your present inclinations.
I will not again repeat the obligations
you are under to me, but in consideration
of them I must beg you to consent to
what, after mature deliberation, I have to propose
to you.'

I will do anything replied Miss Montag,
that does not carry with it the appearance of
my having wilfully deceived you

You admit you have deceived me ? *
Oh ! yes,' said Miss Montag, * but how unwillingly
you cannot know, nor can I tell you.
From a child I have looked upon Mr Jesse
almost as a god. He has always been so good
and kind to me. But when I found I was
thinking of him more than I thought I ought
to do, I tried to keep away from him, and cure
myself of my folly. With that view I seized
upon the opportunity that I had of going to
Brighton ; but, alas ! I took his dear image
in my heart with me, and when chance brought

us together there, the truth burst involuntarily
from my eyes.'

Poor child ! ' said Sir Edward, ' I may pity
you, but I must not let my feelings overweigh
my judgment I sought you this morning to
speak more harshly to you than I have done,
but I must not leave you in any doubt respecting
the future. You cannot remain here. I
will immediately find a fitting place for you to
go to, where you will be well cared for. But
on this condition only, that you give me your
solemn promise that you will take no means tolet
my son know where you are ; and further,
if he should discover the place of your retirement,
you will not agree to any proposal he
may make to you without first consulting me.'

And may I not see him before I make this
promise ? '

No,' replied Sir Edward ; ' you must give it
m^ at once,'

And must I go away without seeing him 1 '
Yes ; unless you are content to see him in
imy presence this morning. I do not wish to
.appear harsh, but I must do my best to guard
you against your own rashness.'

I am in your hands,' said Miss Montag
; * and what can I do but trust to your
generosity.'

Then you will make immediate preparation
for your departure to London, where I will
leave you with a person who I know will treat
you kindly until I can communicate with your
brother at Bath, and some permanent provision
can be made for you. As you will require
to take your luggage with you, I will send the
carriage for it. Be ready by two o'clock and
you shall see my son before you leave Wood-fields


Returning to the Hall, Sir Edward did not
feel himself so much reconciled to the duty
that had been forced upon him as he could
have wished. Thoughts of his Oxford days
came back upon him, dragging after them a
train of reflections which had their centre in
the idea that, if he had been as open in the expression
of his love for Edith, how much vexation
and trouble he might have escaped. These
thoughts and reflections did not, however, cause
him to change his purpose.

Summoning Jesse to come to him in the
library, he told him in few words what he had
done, and what he proposed to do. He did
not speak as he had done the day before, in a
tone of expostulation and persuasion, but rather
as a parent commanding a child. His heart
had been so nearly touched by the artless confession

of the two young people of their love for
each other, that he dared not use more gentle
words lest the bright eyes of Jesse should put
him from his purpose, and thus render the
exercise of his judgment vain.

Jesse, having sent one pleading look to his
father, stood before him with drooping head,
and eyes fixed on the ground, listening attentively
to the deliberate words that fell upon his
ear. When the address was finished, he replied
with a sigh, — ' It is for you, father, to dictate
terms to me, and I do not disguise from myself
that I have been very foolish. If I had acted
in accordance with the wish of her of whose love
I hope at some future time to prove myself
worthy, I should have come direct to you, and
openly confessed that which has come before
you under such suspicious circumstances. I must
now abide by your decision, and I do it the
more readily since you will permit me to clasp
her hand in mine, and look once more into her
eyes before you part us — shall I say for ever ?'

Sir Edward, with all his knowledge of the
world, and the intricate working of the human
heart, was taken a little aback by what appeared
to him the cool manner in which Jesse had
listened to words whose import was, he believed,
so little in accordance with his desire. For a

moment or two he looked suspiciously at his
son. Was he making some mental reservation
in his ready promise not to take any means of
following Miss Montag to her retirement. No,
that could not be. The whole bearing of Jesse
forbad the supposition. Honesty beamed from
his eyes, and his words had a ring of truth in
them, not to be doubted.

Have I then,' he thought, * unnecessarily
frightened myself ? Is the wound not so deep
as I have feared it was ? If such is happily the
case, we may soon get back again to our normal
condition.' While thus comforting himself with
delusive hopes, he had missed one essential
element in the case before him for the formation
of a correct judgment upon it.

He had looked upon Jesse's confession of
love as from a boy, who had seen too little of
the world for it to make a lasting impression,
but he had expected him to fire up against
making any promise about his feelings which he
had not been able to control. To say that he
must be trusted as a man, or he should feel asa
slave ashamed of himself, and much more of
the same kind. He did not know that his son's
confession was only a part of the desire that
filled his heart. Even his love appeared to fall
into the background, in comparison with his

ardent resolve to trace out the parentage of
Miss Montag and her brother.

He would have explained this to his father,
had he not felt that by doing so he might raise
up obstacles to perplex and annoy him. He felt
he must be alone, and for a time at least work
in secret. So much was this the case, that he was
rather pleased than otherwise that Miss Montag
was to be sent away. That he could find her
when her presence would be required, he had
no doubt. If he could establish the family
relationship between her family and his, he
thought all opposition to their meeting again
would cease, and, in the meantime, he knew she
would be well cared for.

He rode in the carriage with his father to the
keeper's house, where they found all in readiness
for the departure. Mrs Smith bustled
about making herself very useful, and apparently
not over curious. She knew perfectly
well what was taking place, though Miss Montag
had been silent on the main point. A hint from
Dixon of the meeting in the shrubbery yesterday,
and her own observation, told her that Sir
Edward had taken the matter in hand, and was
in the act of separating the lovers. She was
thrown a little out of her reckoning at first when
she saw Jesse with his father, but when she saw

the carriage drive off and leave lily behind,
she thought Sir Edward might, good-naturedly,
have allowed him to be present to take a last
farewell.

A few words only passed between Jesse and
Miss Montag. She looked earnestly at him, as
if she would ask him if he had nothing more to
tell her about something he was on the point of
doing yesterday ; but he did not pay any special
attention to her silent appeal. With a warm
pressure of the hand, and a God bless you, after
a few loving words had been whispered between
them they parted, Miss Montag taking her place
in the carriage by the side of Sir Edward, and
Jesse, cap in hand, standing by the door until
the horses were In motion.

Now,' thought Jesse, as he strode away to
the seat in the shrubbery, that witnessed the
surprise of yesterday,' the coast is clear for my
work, and I must Immediately set earnestly
about it. If It Is necessary, I will ransack
Germany until I find the place of which
the two gentlemen spoke. It is a long time,
no doubt, to look back upon, but still there
must be many yet alive who have some recollection
of the Incident I am so anxious to
investigate.

If I can only see the old steward once on his

legs again ; what with a little prompting from my
father and Mr Gordon, it will go hard with me,
though I fail in getting the whole truth from
him, if I do not get some information that will
make my search comparatively easy.'

thus Sir Edward Hare wood was fairly
off on what he thought a mission of
mercy to save two young people from
an entanglement which had no promise
of good in it, but a great deal of mischief.
The girl by his side, for aught he knew to the
contrary, might be the daughter of a princess, or,
on the other hand, she might be the child of a
common beggar, or something worse. What
could be looked forward to from a connection with
such a person ? What but worry and anxiety.
As these thoughts passed through his mind,
a tone of satisfaction overspread his countenance
as he secretly complimented himself on
the decision with which he had acted as soon ashe
knew of its necessity. Could he at that time
have seen what was taking place at Marseilles,
it is very doubtful if his satisfaction would have
been so pleasantly expressed. He might have

felt that the scandal of a baronet's son marrying
a poor orphan girl would have been as nothing
to that trial which was being prepared for him
to encounter.

Lyson had received an answer from his
father, which contained a few words put In
secretly by his sisters, In which the name of Sir
Edward Harewood was mentioned In connection
with Edith's in no very complimentary
terms. That filled up the cup of his wrath.
Though alone at the time, he stamped angrily
about the room, and swore he would be
revenged, forgetful that he had, by his own
misconduct, banished his wife from his house.

A pretty thing,' he stormed, ' that I should
be driven into exile from my wife by his
machinations with but a poor pittance to live
upon, while he has everything the heart of man
can desire, and yet Is not content but he must
rob me of my wife. Yes, he must play with
her, flatter her, and be again with her as the
companion of her childhood, but armed with
the knowledge and vigour of a man. And have
I known this and borne with It In silence ?
Yes, coward that I am, I have. But I will
bear with it no longer. If It costs me my
head I will be revenged. He shall suffer and
pay till we are quits. But when that will bethe

gods only know, so long and black a score
have I to work off against him.'

In his mind he dipped his pen in gall, and
set to work to write to Mr Cresswell. He
would let him understand that he should not
keep his wife away from him. He would desire
that she should be sent out to him at once.
His forbearance in not having done so before,
had been used simply as an instrument of oppression,
and he would bear with it no longer.

That he had, through the roguery of his
dependents in Paris, been deprived of his appointment,
and sent out a wanderer amongst
strangers. That, weary and exhausted, he
wanted rest, and, however displeasing it might
be to some people, he would seek it in his
native land, and amidst the beloved and dearly
remembered scenes of his youth.

This, and a great deal more in the same
strain, he committed to paper, but he did not
send his letter. Circum returned from his
journey of investigation, and a gentler and
more subtle mode of proceeding took the
place of the aggressive one he had been
preparing for.

Circum reported that he had learnt, partly
from his own personal observation, and partly
from intelligence he had received from his

VOL. II. p

friends, that the girl .he had assisted the son of
the late Sir Henry Harewood to marry, lived
for some time in a cottage near Heilbron, where
she was visited by her husband, and where two
children were afterwards born, a boy and a girl.
That her husband having disappeared and her
aunt died, she fell into pecuniary difficulties and
was obliged to sell off her goods and remove to
another village, from which, after struggling
lor a while with adverse fortune, she went
away in the direction of Manheim, where he
had lost all trace of her.

Then your journey has been in vain,' said
Lyson gloomily, ' and my ten pounds spent to
little purpose ? What do you propose to do
now ? Give it up as a lost game ?'

By no means,' said Circum.

But you tell me,' said Lyson, ' that you
have exhausted all your means of discovery.'

No, no,' said Circum, ' you alarm yourself
too readily. The game is not up yet, for I
have found a trump card or two. I know the
boy we want was alive with his sister, under
the care of his mother, who, to my mind, when
she was last seen in Germany, was making her
way towards the Rhine.'

To drown herself and her children,' said
Lyson sarcastically.

No,' replied Circum ;■ ' but according to a
theory I have formed in my mind, to get onboard
one of the river steamers, and crossover
to England in search of her runaway
husband. What took place when she discovered
he was dead it is hard to say. She
may have looked in at Woodcome Hall
and been pensioned off by your good friend
there, or failing that, she may have found
shelter in some out - of - the - way place, and
been kept quiet by the old servant or someone
else interested in the good name ot
the family, at any rate, until we have carried
our search in that direction,. I shall not be
satisfied.'

But the means,' said Lyson ; ' the means,
where are they to come from ?'

'Have you written to your father?' asked
Circum.

'Yes, and got his answer; and written to
CresswelL'

And sent your letter ? '

No, I have it here ; I have just finished it
you may look at it if you like.'

Circum having hastily run his eye over the
letter, said, —

You wrote this when you were angry ; a
bad thing to do. You should never write to

a friend when you are out of temper. A man
at such a time is apt to say things which he is
soon after very sorry for
But I was provoked

The very reason why you should not have
touched your pen. When you write, let your
face be covered with smiles, no matter whether
they are real or not ; the effect your words will
produce on the reader will be the same. Besides,
anger is the last stage of a quarrel. Angry
men shoot and kill their best friends. We are
far away from that point. A soft tongue and
gentle words are what we most require now.
My proposal to you is that I set out at once
for London, from whence I can work my way
into the country, and as the old saying has it,
kill two birds with one stone.'

How ? I don't understand said Lyson.

You must not take offence,' replied Circum, 'if
I remind you that I think I have heard you couple
your wife's name with that of a certain baronet.'

Yes, curse him ! ' cried Lyson.

No anger,' said Circum ; ' we must be very
cool, and before we attempt to open our mine,
look a little about us to find a tool or two for
our work. I need not tell you that suspicion
in a court of justice goes for nothing unless it
is supported by unquestionable evidence. Tell

me, what do you know of your wife's playful
tricks ? Have you witnesses to say they have
seen so-and-so ? '

I know what my sisters say.'

And what they have seen. No, no. I am
afraid you cannot say that. Your wife and the
baronet did not go to the roof of the house to
exhibit themselves, as we read in an old book
a certain man did years ago. They are too
modern for that, and if you were to charge
them with wrong - doing from the hearsay
accounts of your sisters, they would laugh in
your face, and instead of your opening a rich
mine you would effectually bury it beneath a
mass of unprofitable rubbish. Let me go into
their neighbourhood, as you lately proposed I
should, that I may make sure of anything that
is to be found out, or can be invented, to further
your views.'

But where is the money to come from for
the journey ? '

You are not so hard up that you cannot get
a few pounds for such a purpose.'

I suppose,' said Lyson, ' I must lend out
my watch again ? '

It will not be for long,' was the reply ; ' we
have the trump cards in our hands, and we will
play them out very carefully.'

While Sir Edward Harewood was with his
charge on his way to London, and Jesse was
mapping out the future in his mind as he sat
on the rustic seat in the shrubbery, made sacred
to him by the events of yesterday, OHver found
himself master at the Hall, and as such, was
called upon to exercise its authority. Shortly
after his father had left, and before Jesse's
return, Jasper came to him, and said, —

Mr Lea wants to see you in his room
directly, sir.'

I am just going out with my sister,' replied
OHver ; ' tell him I will see him as soon as I
come back.'

And I want to speak to you too,' said Jasper.

Well, what is it ? make haste and tell me.
I must not keep my sister and Miss Gordon
waiting, you know.'

You said I might leave my place when I
liked, sir.'

Yes, I know I did ; I told you my father
said so.'

I wish to leave this afternoon, sir.'

This afternoon ! ' said Oliver, ' that is rather
sudden, and you know I lent you to Lea ; I
cannot let you go to-day.'

Then there wall be a noise in the village,'
said Jasper.

What do you mean? Do be quick and tell
me.'

•' Xancy says I must go to church with her
tomorrow.'

Well, what is there to prevent you ? Do
you not generally go to church on a Sunday ? '

Yes, but Xancy says she will have me
go from her house with her, and that I must
leave my place to-day.'

Oh dear,' said Oliver, ' then I suppose she
means to be master. What is to be done .' I
am sure I do not know. I must speak to father
before I can say you may go, and he
is from home. Why did you not tell me of
this before he left ? *

I didn't know Xancy would want me then,'
replied Jasper.

Well,' said Oliver, '' you go to Mr Lea, and
tell him I am gone to the village, but that I
will come and see him very soon. Stop therewith
him until I come, and then I can tell you
what Charlotte thinks of your going to-day, and
perhaps I shall see Jesse, and I can tell you
what he says too.'

'Well,' said the old steward, as Jasper reentered
his room, 'did you tell Mr Oliver I
wished to see him directly ?'

Yes replied Jasper, ' and I was to inform

you that he is gone to the village, and will
come to you as soon as he gets back.'

You impudent rascal,' cried the old steward,
you did not say I wished to see him
directly ? '

I did, though,' said Jasper, ' and I told him
too, that I wanted to leave my place this
afternoon.'

You unfeeling brute ! ' exclaimed the old
steward. ' If I were able to get up from my
chair I would put my stick about your back.'

Then it is a good thing for me that you are
not able.'

Just when I have taught you to be useful
to me, you must want to run away and get
married. What can a boy like you want with
a wife ? Who put the nonsense into your
head, did you say ? Oh, I remember, that
fool of a Nancy Dicks.'

She is not my wife yet, sir,' said Jasper, * but
you had better not call her names even now.'

And why not, pray, you little jackanapes .^ '

'Why, because if you do, you may expect
a visit from her, and she may perhaps take
upon herself to shake a little explanation out
of you.'

I will have you both sent to the treadmill ! '
cried Lea, and in the excitement of the moment

he arose from his seat and took a step towards
the offender, with his stick in his upraised
hand, when, unfortunately for him, his long
dressing-gown got under his feet, and instead
of his stick falling on the shoulders of Jasper,
it fell from his hand to the floor, as he staggered
forward on the point of toppling over after it,
when his attendant caught him in his arms,
and pressed him back again into his chair.

What did you do that for ? ' exclaimed the
old steward, puffing and blowing like a steam-engine
; 'you nearly threw me down.'

Did I, indeed ? ' said Jasper ; ' well, now, I
thought I saved you from falling, but some
people have strange notions about what happens
to them.'

'Hark! what noise is that?' said the old
steward.

It is Nancy, I think, inquiring for me.'
Then go out to her ; go out directly.'
Shall I tell her you say she is a fool'
No, no ! ' screamed the old man ; ' go out to
her directly, and take her to one of the men,
and give her a glass of ale, and tell hmi I said
she was to have it. Oh dear, oh dear ! how I
am worried. Everybody seems to take a
pleasure to see me suffer. There, go, go, I
hear her again. Why don't you go ? '

Then I may leave my place this afternoon ? '
Leave your place and go to the — ' He

did • not finish the sentence, a twitch in his
toe, caused by his late exertion, caused him to
scream out, ' There is the gout coming back
again ! Was there ever such an unfortunate
wretch as I am ? '

In the midst of his complaints, Jesse; having
returned from the shrubbery, entered the room.

Oh, Mr Jesse,' he continued, * you are come
just in time to save my life, though perhaps
even you will not think it worth saving. That
rascal of a boy had driven me almost wild.'

I am sorry for that. What has he done ? '
And Mr Oliver, I sent for him, and he
would not come to me.'

Perhaps,' said Jesse gently, ' he could not.
You know he has undertaken duties in the
parish with his sister.'

And where could he find any one in the
parish worse than I am, or who wanted him
more ? '.

'Can I supply his place ?' asked Jesse.

If you had been here a little sooner you
might. That rascal of a boy has gone away
and left me just when I stand most in need of
him.'

Do you mean Jasper ? '

'Yes, who else should I mean? He was to
stop with me as long as I was confined in this
wretched room, and just when I have taught
him to be useful he has run away. I wanted
Mr Oliver to come and tell him he should not
go. But nobody cares to do anything for me.'

I shall be glad to stop with you,' said Jesse,
and have a little talk with you about old times,
before you were subject to this terrible gout.'

Don't say a word about old times. I can
remember nothing while I am shut up here.
Do just put this cushion up for me. Oh dear !
that rascal of a boy, he will be the death of me.
To run away just as he was becoming useful.
I hope he will soon grow old, and get as bad
as I am, that I do.'

In this manner the old steward went on complaining
during the hour Jesse spent with him,
vainly endeavouring to gain some information
from him, that he might be quite satisfied that
he was the confidential servant he had heard
the gentleman speaking of at the hotel in
Brighton.

It was late in the evening before Sir Edward
returned from London, and as he afterwards satin
the drawing-room with his family, he did not
feel that his proceedings during the day had
been of a clear and far-seeing character. The

o

idea that had crossed his mind when speaking
to Jesse, that his heart was not so seriously
affected as he had feared it was, grew in strength
with the passing time.

Jesse was ready with his usual cheerfulness
to greet him on his return. He did not appear
over-curious to inquire respecting the incidents
of the day, or to what particular part of London
he had been.

He cannot be so desperately in love with
the girl,' thought the father, ' or he would not
be so easily satisfied. I might have saved
myself the weariness of my journey since, if
I now judge correctly, a sharp word or two
from me would have brought the young people
to their senses, and ended the affair with a few
tears and empty protestations. Still, if I have
erred from over-caution, my error has been on
the right side, and the cure I have aimed at
may be the sooner effected.'

The name of the old steward arose in a conversation
between Oliver and Charlotte, when
Sir Edward, who sat near them, said, —

You remind me that I have forgotten to
inquire for the poor old fellow. How has he
been during the day .'^ '

*Very bad, indeed !' said Charlotte, 'judging
from what Oliver has been telling me.'

I am sorry for that said Sir Edward.

I am inclined to think,' observed Jesse, * that
he makes the most of his troubles, or that he
has a fondness of creatine them for his own
amusement. I sat with him for an hour to-day,
and strove very hard to get his thoughts away
from himself in the present ; but I could in nowise
succeed.'

I did the same,' said Oliver ; * and I asked
him to tell me some of his old stories ; but he
could think of nothing but his gout and Jasper,
who, I forgot to tell you, papa, left my service
to-day.'

Poor, silly fellow ! ' observed Charlotte, ' I
hear he is going to marry that half-witted body,
Nancy Dicks.'

I tried,' said Oliver, ' to persuade him not
to leave me to-day ; but he said he must, for
Nancy would have him go to church with her
tomorrow.'

Rather an odd couple,' observed Sir Edward.

Poor old Lea is almost crazy about it,' said
Oliver.

How can it affect him ? ' asked Sir Edward.

He seems to have grown in his strange way
attached to Jasper, and does not like to part
with him,' said Charlotte.

I asked him,' said Jesse, * to tell me some of

his travelling stories, but, like Oliver, I could
not get him to speak one word on the subject.
His vocabulary seemed confined to 'jasper,"
rascal," and '* gout." '

He could tell you many amusing stories, if
he chose,' said Charlotte ; and then to her father
she said, ' I have been talking to Oliver about
some of his adventures, — and am I not right,
papa, in saying you told me that he had
written accounts of journeys ? '

Yes,' replied Sir Edward ; * when I was
speaking to him once about something that
occurred to me when I was on the Continent —
the full particulars of which I could not remember
— he said he always kept notes of what
happened when he was travelling with my
uncle.'

And did you ever see any of them ? ' broke
in Grace.

No,' replied Sir Edward ; but v/hen 1
employed him on a certain mission, I asked
him on his return to write me out a short
account of it.'

And did he do so ? ' asked Charlotte.

Yes,' replied Sir Edward ; ' but it is a longtime
since, and relates to an affair which is too
old to be interesting now.'

Oh, do tell me what it was about,' cried

Grace. 'I do so like to hear old stories, particularly
when I know the story-teller.'

But the account I spoke of,' said Sir Edward,
was not a story.'

Well, papa,' said Grace, * it must have been
something interesting, or you would not have
required a written account of it. Do, pray, let
me see it. If you will not, I shall dream of it all
through the night, and I am afraid I shall think
of my dream while I am at church tomorrow.'

Jesse, who had been very busily employed
looking over a large atlas while the conversation
was going on, apparently giving his whole attention
to the subject before him, when his ears
were eagerly drinking in every word that floated
through the air. Sir Edward looked at him,
and seeing how little interest he was taking in
what was passing, said to Grace, —

The paper you so much wish to see is that
which he wrote after his last visit to Germany.'

That was when he went for poor mamma,'
said Charlotte, ' to make some inquiry about
the children she had so kindly taken under her
protection.'

Oh, do let us have it, papa,' cried Grace ; ' I
should like to know all he learnt about them.'

I can tell you that in one word,' said Sir
Edward.

Yes, papa,' said Grace.

Nothing!' continued Sir Edward.

Indeed, papa ! ' said Grace, a little confused.

Yes,' continued her father — ' nothing ; and
the paper contains only his account of his journeying
from place to place, and the obstacles he
met with, — as I have said, all for nothing. You
will not care for such a story as that, will you ? '

Only just let me see it, and I will tell you,
papa. I think I have read about wolves eating
children in Germany, and perhaps I shall find
something like it there.'

Well,' said her father, ' since you are so
very curious — if Charlotte will take my keys
and go to the library, she will find a sealed
packet in the top drawer on the left hand of
my writing-table, marked, '' Lea's Journey to
Germany." '

Oh, Charlotte ! ' cried Grace, * do make haste ;
I am burning to see it ! May I go with her ? '

No,' replied her father, putting his hand on
her arm ; your lite fingers would be too busy
there.'

Oh, papa, how can you say so '^. ' rejoined
Grace.

Until Charlotte's return Jesse sat looking at
the atlas, but when he saw the packet fairly in
the room all his seeming indifference to what

was passing vanished in a moment ; and as Sir
Edward was breaking the seal, he approached
nearer to him, saying as he did so, —

I had no idea that you had any such paper
in your possession.'

It contains no secrets,' remarked his father,
and will, I think, scarcely repay any one for its
perusal. I put it away, as you see it, to please
your mother, and I have thought little of it
since, unless when I chanced to open the drawer
where Charlotte found it'

There is not much of it,' said Grace.

And what there is, if I remember rightly, is
not very interesting,' rejoined her father.

When all my good friends,' said Jesse, ' have
satisfied themselves with looking it over I will
subject it to a little criticism, that I may forma
few questions upon it to enable me to go
earnestly into the subject with the writer on
some idle or rainy day.'

VOL. II.

RACE occupied her place in the
family pew the next morning at
church, with her mind freed from
the anxiety that had threatened to
disturb her respecting the sealed packet,
containing Lea's account of his last visit to
Germany. She had not found the subject
or the manner in which it was treated very
interesting.

Soon after she had taken her seat in church,
her usual quiet demeanour when there underwent
a considerable change. The pew in
which she sat was one of the old-fashioned,
high ones, and she was so placed that her back
was to the porch from whence there arose a
great clattering of nailed boots and shoes on
the flags and a buzzing noise of voices, as if someone
was putting in order a procession, each
separate member of which had a will of its

own, and was endeavouring to use it, not intaking
the appointed place, but in selecting one
according to its own fancy.

To add to her awakened curiosity Grace
heard, or fancied she heard, the buzz at the
porch spread through the congregation over
the whole church. She rose to her feet, but
the provoking high pew prevented her from
seeing more than what only tended to increase
her curiosity. After standing on tiptoe on the
hassock for a moment she turned round, and
despite of the frowns of her sister Charlotte,
placed her knees on the seat and her hands on
the back of the pew, and thus gained a position
where she could command a view of the porch
and the people who were hustling and jostling
one another in it.

The most prominent figure of the group,
though by no means the tallest, was Nancy
Dicks ; her mourning thrown off, and decked
out in the most elaborate style. If the materials
of her dress were not of the best of their kind,
they were the brightest and most showy. She
did not, however, appear to have been at much
trouble to harmonise her colours, but as a grand
display was her object, that might be easily
accounted for.

Her bonnet, which not only covered her head,

raised itself on high over her red face, with two
wing-like flaps spreading out on each side, and
surmounted by bunches of artificial roses of red,
pink and yellow. A white muslin dress inclosed
her sturdy form, made in the height of
the fashion, but reaching to a point a little
above the top of her boots, and ornamented
with bows of ribbon, of all the hues of the
rainbow, before and behind. Her boots shone
with their highest polish, and formed a fine
finish to the red stockings above. Over her
shoulders was carelessly thrown a long, white
muslin scarf, which on a more interesting occasion
was to do duty as a veil.

With the energy with which she had often
put her mother's horse in the shafts of the cart,
she was seen grasping first one and then
another of her four companions, dressed as
nearly like herself as hand could dress them, to
force them into their proper places.

You are making yourself quite hot,' whispered
a friendly voice in her ear.

These are my bridesmaids,' rejoined Nancy,
and Fm just showing them how they are to
come into the church with me when I am
married. We have put off our mourning for
the wedding, but we shall wear it again
afterwards. Now, Jasper, where is your

father ? Oh, here you are, all right, and In
we go

All the ladies, with the exception of Nancy,
seemed a little abashed when they saw the eyes
of the assembled congregation fixed upon them.
But Nancy had come to show herself off to the
world, and she was well pleased with the notice
the world bestowed upon her, and to see that
every face was smiling that met her gaze.

The gay party were scarcely seated when
Mr Gordon and his curate entered from the
vestry. Many eyes no doubt furtively wandered
from the book before them to Nancy,
but no one, save the very young and giddy,
appeared to take any special notice of her or
her friends until the endings of the readings of
the second lesson, when Mr Gordon said, ' I
publish the banns of marriage between Jasper
Motley and Nancy Jemima Jenkinson Dicks ! '

No sooner had the name of Dicks escaped
from the vicar's mouth than there was a sudden
clatter in a corner of the church, and a loud
whisper of * Now, now, now is the time,' when
the two sisters of Nancy started to their feet,
and the eldest cried out in a stern voice, ' I
forbid the banns ! '

Eager eyes for the moment were turned in
the direction from whence the sound came, but

save Nancy, who said loudly enough to be heard
by many, * Oh, that's you, is it Betsey ? but it
won't do ; ' no one uttered a word.

Then all eyes turned to the vicar, who said,
The person who has just spoken will come to
the vestry after the service is over and state
her reason for what she has said.' He then
continued the service to the close as if nothing
unusual had occurred. He did not, however,
carry the congregation entirely with him, and
it is very questionable if many of those who
were present could, an hour after the sermon
was concluded, have given any very satisfactory
account of it.

The vestry of the church was of a tolerable
size, but had it been ten times as large it would
not have sufficed to hold the half of those who
rushed towards it immediately the service was
over ; and it was not until the clerk had reminded
the throng that there was no admittance
there except on business, that the curious ones
could be induced to withdraw from before the
door.

The two elder sisters were, as a matter of
course, admitted, but there was some little
hesitation about the introduction of Nancy and
her party, until the vicar, seeing that there
would most likely be an unseemly noise on the

outside of the church If she was not admitted,
ordered her to come in.

Now, Miss Betsey,' cried Nancy, as soon as
she had passed the threshold, ' what have you
got to say again my banns ? '

Hush, hush ! ' said the vicar, * you must not
talk here. If you are not quiet I must have
you sent out again.'

You just hold your tongue, Nancy,'
whispered Jasper. ' I know what to do if
they stop us here.'

But they can't,' retorted Nancy.

Now, Mrs Strictly,' said the vicar to the
eldest sister, * have the goodness to tdl me
why you forbad the banns ? '

She is silly, and doesn't know what she is
doing.'

Do you mean,' asked the vicar, * that she is
of weak intellect, and not able to manage her
own affairs ? '

Yes, and that she got our mother's property
by unfair means, and now, if she is not stopped,
she will throw every farthing of it away, and
have to go to the union.'

Bennet I allowed to speak, sir,' cried Nancy.

No,' said the vicar. ' I cannot listen to you
now. I do not know how far your sister is
justified in attempting to stop your marriage,

but I will receive any statement she has to make
to me, and lay it before the bishop. Then
everything, you may be certain, will be settled
in proper order.'

Come along, Nancy,' whispered Jasper,
we shall get no good here, and I know how to
manage. Come along,' and half dragging and
half pushing the solid body of Nancy out of the
door, the whole party followed, much to the
relief of the clerk, who had expected an outbreak
of temper as nearly inevitable. ' You had
better go out at the other door,' he suggested to
the sisters, who, having observed a little twitch
in the fingers of Nancy, which they knew meant
mischief, were happy to avail themselves of that
means of avoiding danger.

Jesse, with the younger portion of the congregation,
took part in the general laugh which
had been called forth by the unusual display
they had witnessed ; but his imagination was far
from being carried away with it. Even while
he laughed, he was musing on the best means
he could adopt to increase the little knowledge
he had obtained from the sealed paper.

On the previous evening he had waited
patiently for his brother and sisters to satisfy
their curiosity, and then set himself to work, ashe
said he would, to criticise it. He was a

rapid writer, and had quickly short notes of it
in his pocket-book, with names of persons,
villages, towns, and cities referred to by the
writer, specially marked out for future use.
On retiring to his room and looking over his
notes, he could not restrain his satisfaction from
breaking out into words, ' This is far better
than anything I could get from Lea

I have the route he took marked clearly here,
and if I set out upon the same lines, I cannot
fail to meet with some persons who were
acquainted with him, or to whom he applied
for information. If his account is a true one, I
may find the means of correcting his failure,
and if it is not true on my return, I shall be
in a position to force the truth from him through
fear of punishment. Full of hope that he was
at last upon the right track, he retired to rest.
But he was a stranger to his usually unbroken
sleep, and even his dreams assumed the
character of his wakeful thoughts.

On returning from church after Nancy's
exhibition was over, he took the opportunity of
mentioning to his father the subject that was
uppermost in his mind. He did not fully go
into his project, but only so far as to show how
anxious he was for a little change, and that he
had a great wish to go to Germany and visit

some of the places his mother was so much
attached to, and which the brief narrative he
read last night had brought so vividly before
him.

I think I perceive your object, Jesse,' said
his father kindly ; * but if you were to undertake
the journey, it could only lead to disappointment.'


I suppose it will prove rather an expensive
trip?'

I was not thinking of the expense,' rejoined
his father, 'but I will not at the moment
say that I object to your going ; give mean
hour or two to consider of what you
wish to do, and I will then tell you what I
think of it.'

I trust your answer will be favourable.'

Sir Edward said no more, but retiring to his
room, sat down alone and was soon lost in
thought. More than once he rose from his
chair and walked with a nervous step up and
down the room. He could not quite understand
his son. ' At one minute,' he thought, ' his
love affair was of the most trifling character,
and at the next he was disposed to think he
was inclined to make it the business of his life.
Though he does not speak plainly of his purpose
in going, I am well assured that the

parentage of the orphan children is its chief
feature. And what will be the effect if he is
successful ? Should he discover they came of
beggars, would that cure him of his fancy ? or if
he is unsuccessful, will he still think of Miss
Montag, of whose history he must remain
totally ignorant, as one he could ask me to
receive as a daughter ? '

After mature consideration, looking at the
unfortunate position in which he was placed,
he arrived at the conclusion that the least
chance of mischief lay in his sanctioning his
son's visit to Germany. The variety of scenes
through which he would pass, and the different
characters he would come in contact with,
he thought must have a good effect on his
mind, and perhaps cause him to view his love
affair in a very different light to what he then
did.

And so in the silence of his own room the
question was settled, and Jesse shortly afterwards,
to his unbounded delight, was made
acquainted with the fact.

I shall not want to be away from you,' he
said, * for any length of time. I shall rapidly
run through the country, and see and hear
everything that is interesting to a mere traveller.
I shall not go as a student to study men and

manners. I want particularly to see some places
I have heard you speak of, where my mother
spent many happy days.'

Will you take a servant with you,' asked
his father.

No, unless you wish me to do so. I think
I should feel more independent alone. I do not
care to have a man constantly running about
after me.'

Little preparation was needed for the journey,,
and little it had, so that when he set off the
next day his brother and sisters had scarcely
realised the fact of his going until they were
called upon to bid him farewell.

Scarcely had an hour elapsed from the time of
Jesse leaving the Hall, when a messenger arrived
with a letter from Mr Cresswell, begging Sir
Edward at once to come over to Downend to
see him. ' I am not very well, to-day,' he added
in a postscript, ' or I would have ridden over to
see you, instead of troubling you to come to me.'
Sir Edward did not hesitate about complying
with the request, but after having written a
note to a friend to put off an engagement he
had entered into with him for a meeting in the
afternoon, he mounted his horse and soon completed
his little journey to Elston Court, where
he found Mr Cresswell suffering from a state of

nervous excitement, which he was vainly endeavouring
to disguise from his wife and
daughter.

Come with me to my room he said to his
visitor ; ' I have a Httle matter respecting which
I wish to speak to you.'

As soon as they were alone, Mr Cresswell
took a letter from his pocket, and handed it to
Sir Edward with the simple remark of, —

Please read, and tell me what you think
about it.'

The letter was, as doubtless the reader has
anticipated, from Lyson. It was written in a
tone the very opposite to the one he had prepared
to send before the return of Circum from
his German business.

It would be difficult to find the proper name
by which the epistle should be designated. In
flattery, it exceeded the most fulsome expression
that one could readily conceive. In humility,
as from a beggar to a prince. In words of deep
repentance the most sad and sorrowful, and but
for one fatal fault, it would have been a perfect
specimen of its kind — it was a little overdone.
And that It was that had alarmed Mr Cresswell,
and caused him to send to his friend to come to
him, and that it was that caused the colour to
come and go in the face of Sir Edward, as his

eyes conveyed to his brain the full meaning of
the words before him.

Well observed Mr Cresswell as he received
the letter back, ' do you understand it ? '

I am afraid I do too well,' was the reply.
It appears to me to be but another attempt to
work upon your feelings to procure a further
supply from your purse to enable him to continue
in his course of profligacy.'

Yet,' said Mr Cresswell, ' there is something
in this totally different from anything I have
hitherto had from him.'

Do you not discover in this the trace of
another hand beside his own ? ' asked Sir
Edward.

I cannot say,' replied Mr Cresswell. ' He
has placed me in a cruel position. If only the
half he says of his repentance for his past misconduct
to me and his wife is true, should I
answer him harshly, and he should upon the instant,
as he almost threatens to do, terminate
his miserable existence, and the knowledge of
the truth should reach the ears of Edith. I am
fearful of the effect it would have upon her. I
am afraid I should feel that she looked upon meas
being little short of his murderer. But I am
growing old,' he added with a sigh, ' and this
may be but my fancy.'

Why not let Edith see the letter and judge
for herself ? '

It was upon that question,' replied Mr Cress-well,
' that I most desired to speak to you.
What Edith's real feelings are towards him I can
have no doubt. From the first year of their unhappy
marriage, he has done nothing but what
has been calculated to beget contempt. But
she is, as you know, of a gentle, loving nature,
and would, I believe, be very glad to see him
reformed.'

And place herself in his power again ? '

That I am not prepared to say,' replied Mr
Cresswell, ' though if he could give lasting
proof that his repentance was sincere, coupled
with a determination with God's help to lead
a new life, I think I could not advise her
not to do so.'

If you are not afraid to let her see the
letter — '

I am not afraid,' said Mr Cresswell, ' but I
would rather keep it from her for the present.'

And from her mother also ? ' asked Sir
Edward.

Yes,' replied Mr Cresswell ; ' their knowledge
of it would lead me at once to some decisive
action, which I am anxious to avoid until I am
better satisfied with the real condition of the

writer's mind. You see he says, ' he has left
Marseilles, and is now at Boulogne, where he
awaits a letter from me to authorise his return
to Downend.'

Was your permission necessary for that ? '

You remember the condition upon which he
receives his quarterly remittances

Oh yes, but I had for the moment forgotten
it.'

So far, then,' said Mr Cresswell ; his present
application is in accordance with our agreement.
Still, I am not satisfied that he is the
changed man he represents himself to be. I
want to ascertain the truth by the personal
investigation of some one I can implicitly
trust. The thought struck me when I sent
my messenger to you, that if you could spare
Jesse for a few days I would get him to runover
to Boulogne, and act as my agent there.'

I am sorry,' said Sir Edward, * that I cannot
oblige you in that, as Jesse has this morning
left us for Germany.'

You surprise me,' said Mr Cresswell. ' I
had no idea that such an event was in contemplation.'


Nor had I a few hours since,' rejoined Sir
Edward.

He then related to his old friend the incidents

of the last few days, and concluded by
saying,—

Perhaps you will think I have acted a little
precipitantly, but I was sorely perplexed with
my discovery, and I had almost decided to come
over and consult you, but I thought I ought
not to trouble you with it.'

Do not talk of trouble,' said Mr Cresswell
warmly, ' but rather of the pleasure I should
have had in receiving you, and giving you my
warmest sympathy and best advice.'

You are very good,' said Sir Edward ; 'but
now to return to your trouble. Have you no one
else to whom you could entrust your delicate
mission ? I would say, let Oliver go ; only I
am persuaded he would be unequal to the
task.'

I could send my solicitor,' said Mr Cresswell
thoughtfully ; ' he would need but little instruction
to carry out my views. Or would it be
more to the purpose, do you think, if I were to
go myself, and discover with my own eyes the
truth or falsehood of that which so nearly
concerns the happiness of my daughter ? '

You are scarcely equal to the journey.'

I certainly am but poorly to-day,' said Mr
Cresswell, ' but with such an object in view, I
think I could fortify myself for it.'

VOL. II. R

As far as I can judge,' said Sir Edward,
your idea of sending your solicitor appears tome
to be the most reasonable plan you have
touched upon.'

Then he shall go,' rejoined Mr Cresswell ina
tone of decision; ' I will send for him immediately.
He is an active, clever man, and
will not be easily deceived, nor hesitate to
expose a sham, should one come before him.'

And now, with respect to the ladies,' said
Sir Edward, ' can you keep them in total ignorance
of what is passing ? '

'Not in total ignorance perhaps.'

I think you will find that they must know all
or nothing. If you could for the present keep the
matter entirely from them, I would not argue the
point with you ; but if you cannot, the little they
know will only increase their desire to know
more, which will react in anxiety and worry
upon you.'

I am afraid you are right,' said Mr
Cresswell.

Come, then,' rejoined Sir Edward, ' let us
put a bold face on the matter, and tell them
unreservedly the whole truth as far as it has yet
come before us ; and if I may venture to go a
little further, I would ask you to remember your
oft-repeated promise to bring Mrs Cresswell and

Edith over to Woodfield to spend a few days
with us at the Hall.'

Since you are good enough to repose such
entire confidence in me, incidents must for a
time at least require that we should be much
together. If you were stopping with me the
necessity of our frequent journeyings from one
to the other would be avoided, and with
them, doubtless, much unprofitable excitement.
My children will be pleased to welcome the
ladies, and I will not attempt to tell you how
much pleasure it will afford me once more to
play the host to you.'

It needed but little argument to press the
truth of all this upon the mind of Mr Cresswell,
and to render him not only willing to accept the
invitation, but to look forward to the visit with
unfeigned pleasure.

In a short time they had arranged their mode
of proceeding, and Mr Cresswell was in the
drawing-room with his wife and daughter speaking
openly of what he had before not dared to
utter even in whispers.

With unbounded pleasure the young
I people at Woodcome Hall received
their visitors. The sudden departure
of Jesse for Germany, the cause of
which they could not understand, had made
them a little restless and out of spirits, but that instantly
passed off into the background on the
introduction of their friends. Charlotte had
so many inquiries to make respecting the parish
work at Downend, and so many answers to
give as to what they were doing in Woodfield,
that the dulness of the last day or two passed
unnoticed away.

Mrs Cresswell was charmed with the vivacity
of Grace, who recounted to her many of the
amusing things she had read of in books, and
some which she had seen with her own eyes,
amongst which stood out prominently the late
exhibition at the parish church.

Oh ! I do wish she said, ' you could have
seen Nancy and her companions ; they were
such comical figures that, when I saw them, I
was obliged to cram my handkerchief into my
mouth to keep me from laughing outright in the
church.'

I am glad you did not laugh there,' said
Edith.

But I did, only I kept the noise in my
mouth with my handkerchief ; and you would
have laughed, too, I do believe, if you had been
there. Why, I saw a smile even on papa's lips,
and Charlotte's too, although she tried to look
very serious. But Oliver and Jesse, they both
sat down and covered their faces with their
hands, and if papa and Charlotte had not been
there we should all of us, I do believe, have
laughed out altogether.'

Then it was fortunate for you that papa and
Charlotte were there,' observed Mrs Cresswell.

And what is to be done now "^ ' continued
Grace. ' I am sure I do not know. I heard
Charlotte say that Mr Gordon had written to
the bishop ; but Oliver can tell you better about
that, as he was with Charlotte when the vicar
told her.'

I was talking to Miss Gordon, and did not
hear what he said,' observed Oliver.

Oh ! you have begun to talk to the ladles,
have you ?' said Edith.

Yes, a little,' replied Oliver, blushing scarlet.

While this was passing in the drawing-room,
Sir Edward and Mr Cresswell were seated together
in the library. The former busy reading
and answering letters, and his companion leaning
back in an easy-chair with the newspaper,
which had escaped from his hands, lying on the
floor.

This state of things had continued for sometime,
when Mr Cresswell, becoming conscious
that he had been a little drowsy, readjusted
his spectacles, which had gone awry
on his nose, and taking up his paper, said, —

Bless me, I do believe I was nearly asleep.'

Indeed ! ' said Sir Edward, looking up from
his writing. * I hope the room is not too warm
for you ? I have nearly finished my task, and
I shall soon be ready to take a stroll with you
out in the open air.'

A very short time at Boulogne served to
supply Mr Bevan, the solicitor, with all the information
he required. He discovered Lyson
at an hotel where gambling engaged no small
portion of the time of the visitors, and saw him
in the company of a class of men from whom
most people are careful to keep at a distance.

He learnt from his own lips the state of his
mind.

He was not instructed to make himself known
to him or play the part of a spy upon his actions,
further than to accomplish the objects of his
mission, which was simply to discover whether
the writer of the late letter was, or was not, the
repentant sinner he represented himself to be.
Having satisfied himself that he was not, Mr
Bevan did not waste time to secure further
evidence of the profligate's mode of life, but
returned directly to London.

In his report to Mr Cresswell he summed
up his opinion in a few words. He said, ' I
believe Mr Lyson to be living in the very
opposite way to that in which a stranger, after
reading his letter, would expect to find him, and
that his only object in writing to you as he did
was to extort money to enable him to meet the
demands which his mode of life is constantly
pressing upon him.'

Mr Cresswell and Sir Edward were alone
together when the report arrived. After having
carefully studied and debated the question under
its new aspect, they resolved simply to tell Mrs
Cresswell and Edith that the solicitor had satisfied
them that his investigation respecting the
real character of Lyson had been most searching,

and had confirmed their worst fears, so
that for the future it would be well for them all
if they thought and talked of him as little as
possible. To Lyson Mr Cress well wrote a
brief reply to his long letter. He told him
plainly that he had deceived his friends so many
times before that he could not now believe one
word he said, and therefore to talk of forgiveness
with the view of receiving him again into
his house was quite out of the question.

But that as he had not broken his engagement
by returning to England, his quarterly
stipend would still be paid to him as heretofore
at Marseilles. That it would be useless for him
to seek to have the place of payment changed,
as such a request under any circumstances
could not be complied with. That he had
chosen Marseilles himself, and there alone
would it be sent.

Mr Cresswell comforted himself with the idea
when he sent his letter off that that would put
an effectual stop to the importunities of his unworthy
son-in-law. His wife and Edith seeing
the effects of this on his countenance, yielded
themselves willingly up to the conviction that
the measures he had taken would tend to their
general happiness. But bitter disappointment
lay in ambush ready to seize upon them and

banish their dream ; but as its shadow had not
reached them, they strolled about the Hall and
grounds in blissful ignorance of the threatened

o o

storm.

Strange coincident are of daily occurrence in
the world around us, which, if they were all
recorded, the half of them would be set down as
improbable or impossible. But that must not
deter us from recording one that happened
about this time in the progress of our story.

When Lyson left Marseilles he was accompanied
by Circum, who, when they reached
Boulogne, left his principal there while he
crossed over to Folkestone. There, fortunately
or unfortunately for the success of his diabolical
scheme, he met with an old acquaintance who
had just obtained possession of a large sum of
money, which would probably set the telegraph
at work and put the police on his track.

There was no time for explanation. ' I am off
for Spain,' he said, ' by a vessel that leaves Bologna
to-night. Have your ears open, and if you
hear of any inquiries for me, send the gentlemen
to look for me in Holland ; and take that
for your trouble. But bear in mind, if you
betray me, you are a dead man ; I am not
alone in this business.'

Never fear,' said Circum, as he thrust the

handful of sovereigns he received into his
pocket, and passed as unconcernedly away as
if the transaction that had taken place between
them was of the most ordinary character.

This,' he thought, with a glow of satisfaction,
' will change the appearance of things. It
will enable me to go on my own hook, and give
me a better chance with Lyson. He is a very
good fellow, take him altogether, but just a
little too fond of himself, and pressing a man
into his service for what he likes to give him.'

Now, what is to be done ? This does not
appear to be a choice place for me to spend
much time in, but I must stop here a day or
two for the sake of the friend who has just left
me. First, then, strengthen the inner man
with a good dinner ; next brush up my clothes,
and get a new pair of boots ; then get my
beard and hair trimmed, and look out for any
business that may come to hand.'

Whether he was able to turn aside the inquiries
after his friend he did not know, but he
spoke freely of the robbery that had been committed
near Maidstone, the account of which he
had read In the papers, and did his best indirectly
to send the police off In the wrong
direction ; but that only in the way of common
conversation with any one he chanced to speak

to. He paid little attention to certain men
who might be seen hanging about near the
pier when a packet or sailing vessel was about
to leave the harbour. He saw through their
disguise ; but as they did not speak to him, he
did not feel himself called upon to volunteer
any statement to them. So they looked carelessly
at each other, and went on their separate
way.

After spending three days at Folkestone,
without any noticeable incident occurring to
him, he walked up to the station, and having
secured a ticket for London, entered a third-class
carriage, and proceeded to make himself
quite at home with his fellow passengers, the
most of them being women.

Now comes one of the coincident that so
often happen in life, but which perchance some
astute critic will say has been introduced herein
order to help on our story to the end. Well,
be it so ; we will not stop to argue with you.
But we may venture to say that if you had
been in that carriage on your way to London
on that particular day, you must have been dull
indeed had you not marked the bright eyes of
Circum just after the train left the Ashford
Station, as he looked at a girl, or young
woman rather, who sat by the side of a

motherly old dame, who appeared to have
charge of her.

Something in the young person's face had
attracted his attention on the instant of his
entering the carriage.

She reminds me,' he thought, ' of some one
I knew years since, but whom I cannot now
remember.'

Smartened up as he had been by the barber,
he was not a person a passenger would shrink
from. Though he was evidently to all eyes an
old man, his manners were youthful and pleasing.
He appeared to have carefully attended
to the growth and shape of his beard, which
was perfectly white. A man who has lived on
his wits till his seventieth year must have seen
his best days if he could not suit his conversation
to any company he would be likely to meet
with in a third-class railway carriage, and, for
aught we know to the contrary, in a first.

Circum had not been confined to one station
in life. He had started from a point in the
tree a good distance from the bottom, and had
again and again run through the different
branches from thence to the roots in the
ground.

The brightness seen in his eyes after they
left the Ashford Station was occasioned bv his

having heard the name of Sir Edward Hare-wood
pass between the old dame who sat on
the opposite seat and her daughter, or charge,
or whatever she miorht be.

On arriving at the different stations on their
way, changes were constantly taking place
amongst the passengers — some hurrying out
and some jumping in ; but amidst all the
changes Circum managed, without any seeming
design, to keep as close to the two who
had specially engaged his attention as it was
possible for him to do. At Tunbridge he was
very polite to them, and during the ten minutes
they stopped there he brought out a cup of tea
for the old lady and a bun for the younger one,
they having previously been requested to take
care of his seat during his absence.

When the train was again in motion, if there
had been any ice between them it was then
fairly melted. Mrs Wilkins felt assured there
could be no harm in talking to such a polite old
gentleman. Had he been young, she would
perhaps have drawn her charge more closely
under her wine, and turned a scowling face
upon him. By the time they reached Chislehurst
they had begun to take quite a friendly
interest in each other. Mrs Wilkins learnt
that the very polite old gentleman before

her was from the Continent, and was going to
London to see all the fine sights there.
He had some little fear, he said, that he
should find It very awkward, after his day of
sight-seeing was over, when he sat down alone
without a single soul to speak to of whom he
had the slightest knowledge.

If I could only get Into some quiet family
during my stay in the great city, It would add
very much to my comfort and pleasure.'

If I had a spare room,' said Mrs Wilkins,
I should be proud to place it at your service.'

Perhaps,' said CIrcum, ' you can recommend
me to a friend. Most likely my stay will not
exceed a week, but I should not mind paying
a month in advance to secure a comfortable
home. We could settle about the difference
when I left.'

We live at Islington,' said Mrs Wilkins,
and that is a long way off from Cannon Street,
where the train stops ; but if you would like to
go with us, I think I know a neighbour who
would be able to make you very comfortable.'

A thousand thanks ! ' exclaimed CIrcum.
I shall be delighted to avail myself of your
kindness. You have not much luggage, I
suppose, as you say you have only been from
home for a couple of days, and I have but a

small bag ; so we can all go in one cab. I
hate having a parcel of luggage to drag about
over the country with me.'

Cannon Street, the cab, and Islington followed
in quick succession, and a neighbour's
door was soon open to Circum on consideration
of his paying for his rooms a month in advance.

And who was Mrs Wilkins, that had made
herself so useful to the traveller, who but the
old servant to whom Sir Edward Harewood had
entrusted Miss Montag, to keep her out of the
way of his son. The visit to Folkestone arose
from the fact that Mrs Wilkins had a married
daughter living there, who had invited her to
spend a day or two with her. She had received
instructions from Sir Edward to do the best
she "could to amuse the girl, and keep her from
thinking too much of home, and she wisely or
unwisely thought that she could do nothing
more likely to answer his purpose than to take
her down to see her daughter.

Circum had now the coast clear before him.
He knew a great deal more than he did when
he left Folkestone, and he felt, to his great
satisfaction, that he was in a fair way of soon
knowing more.

By return of post Mr Cresswell received an
answer from Lyson, which had been prepared

by Circum before he left Marseilles, in anticipation
that it would in the course of time be required.
The tone of this second letter was
even more submissive than the first. It went
on to say how dreadfully grieved the writer was
that his former application should have been
received so unfavourably, but that, when he
looked back upon his past life, he could not be
surprised at it, as he knew how much he had
offended his best friends by the thoughtless
extravagance of his youth.

He then went on to say that he could not,
however, rest without making one more appeal,
as he had just heard from his sisters that his
father was little better than in a dying state.
He concluded his letter by saying, —

Pray, excuse me for telling you I must come
over and see him once more before his departure
from all his worldly cares, of which my
sisters write so pathetically, or I shall die herein
a strange land from a broken heart.'

The brute ! ' exclaimed Sir Edward on reading
the letter. ' Has he no sense of shame, to
arouse him to his abominable hypocrisy ? But
say what you will, under the pretence he has
sheltered himself, you cannot prevent his visit
to Downend. You may, however, avoid seeing
him. You must not return to Elston Court

while he is at the vicarage ; and there is but
Httle fear of his venturing over here to see
you.'

I must put myself entirely under your
guidance,' rejoined Mr Cresswell, ' as I am
beginning to feel, I suppose from age, quite
unequal to the tasks he so mercilessly thrusts
upon me. You think he will cross over the
Channel without any further correspondence
between us ? '

If he has not already crossed,' replied Sir
Edward. ' I am prepared to think it will be
but a question of a few hours. The letter,
I think, shows his fixed determination to visit
his father under the pretence of seeing him
before he dies. What his ultimate object maybe
remains to be seen. I cannot tell you how
very glad I am to know you are here with us.'

Then, I suppose, we must consider ourselves
your prisoners for an indefinite time ? ' said Mr
Cresswell with a faint smile.

Even so,' said Sir Edward ; ' but I trust
you will not find your prison house very irksome,
or its master a hard jailor.'

Sir Edward was right with respect to the
conclusion he had arrived at concerning the
movements of Lyson, for no sooner had that
gentleman despatched his last letter to England

VOL. II. s

than he prepared to follow it. His undertaking
the journey had now become to him a matter of
sheer necessity for his own personal comfort
and safety.

His ill luck with cards and dice had followed
him to Boulogne. With all his skill by day and
night he could scarcely gain enough to say with
a clear conscience that he was not on the losing
side. His purse consequently, which was never,
only by fits and starts, full, was now nearly
empty, and although he had but little hope of
replenishing it at his father's or sisters' expense,
he knew if he could reach the vicarage a bedroom
would be prepared for him, and that, while
there, he would not want for the necessaries of
life.

He had received from Circum a statement of
his journey to London, and a brief account
of certain discoveries he had made by the way,
which he hoped short to turn to their mutual
advantage. Before he left his hotel to go onboard
the packet, Lyson scribbled a few lines
to his confederate, to let him know that he was
about to set off for Downend, where he should
expect to see him as soon as he could make it
convenient to run down. He would not himself
call at Islington, in the first place, because
he would be expected at the vicarage ; and in

the second, he did not feel certain that he
should find Circum at his lodgings even if he
was at the expense and trouble of going
there.

By this time Sir Edward was getting a little
anxious about Jesse. He had heard from him
on his arrival in Germany, and two or three
times afterwards. His letters, however, which
were at first lively and hopeful, soon became
brief and cheerless. Up to the time of his last
letter, he had made no discovery in the object
of his search. He had been, he said, to several
places mentioned by the old steward, but he
could find no trace of him or the children
of whom he was in search.

While in this state of suspense respecting the
well-doing of Jesse, that the evenings might not
hang heavily on their hands, Sir Edward made
a point of inviting a few friends to join his little
home company; amongst them not the least prominent
figures were the vicar and his daughter,
who were especially welcome to the young
people of the Hall. Their entrance about this
time was particularly looked eagerly forward toby
Grace. Day by day she was hearing things
of Nancy and her forthcoming wedding which
greatly excited her imagination.

The gossips of the village had led her astray

on more than one occasion, and she had been
to the church to see the wedding only to find
the doors closed, and not a sound to be heard
within. She had wearied Charlotte and Oliver
with her inquiries and suppositions without any
satisfactory result. A little out of temper with
their apparent indifference, she had declared she
would not ask them another question about it,
but get her information direct from the vicar,
as of course he must know all about it better
than they did. And of course he did ; but as he
did not wish to have any more display at the
church than was absolutely necessary, the first
intimation that Grace had of the marriage came
from a merry peal of bells, to let the world know
that the ceremony was over.

Oh, Mr Gordon,' cried Grace as he entered
the room in the evening, 'how could you be so
cruel as not to tell me that Nancy Dicks was
going to be married to-day ? '

There has been so much uncertainty respecting
it,' replied Mr Gordon, ' that I was not quite
clear that it would take place here till the last
moment.'

Oh, do tell us all about it. Was it very
funny ? '

The finish was worthy of the beginning, and
that you saw, I believe.'

Yes, and I did so much wish to see the end.
Now, do sit down and tell me all about it.'

Perhaps your friends are not so much interested
in the affair as you are,' said the
vicar.

Oh yes, they are, or they will be when they
hear it,' cried Grace. She then ran round the
room from one to another, saying, ' I know you
would like to hear of the wonderful things that
have been done, and you, and you, and all and
every one. It must be so funny.'

By her energetic action she drew all eyes
towards her, and her father, ever on the watch
with his children to improve any incident that
had the promise of innocent amusement in it,
took his place by her side, and said he for one
would be pleased to be very attentive, and listen
to the wonderful account that the vicar had to
give of the much-talked-of village marriage.

This encouragement was enough for Grace,
and she at once took more active steps to force
the vicar to do as she wished. She played the
spoiled child to perfection. Dragging a chair
to a vacant place in the room, she led the vicar
to it, saying as she did so, ' There is a nice
seat for you to sit down upon, and begin your
story.'

'And where shall I begin ?' asked the vicar.

Oh, just after you left the vestry that
Sunday morning

Then I must at once,' said the vicar, ' go onto
the following morning, when I received a visit
from Nancy and, I hope, her now happy husband.
She said she could not understand why
I paid any attention to what her sisters said.
In short, she wished to know why I did not
order them out of the church. I told her I could
not do otherwise than I did ; that I would write
to the bishop, and until I heard from him she
must be patient, and not trouble me.

" I don't want to trouble you, sir," she said
abruptly, *' but I do want to get married."

" Come along, Nancy," I heard her companion
say, " come along ; I told you it would be of no
use for us to come here. We must go to London
or somewhere else and get a licence, that's
the thing for us to work with." Saying which,
with a " Good morning, sir," he unceremoniously
drew her from the room.

I must now introduce a little hearsay. I
am told that, directly after leaving me, the
marriage party set off for London, where they
obtained the desired licence, and shortly afterwards
made their way into a church and prepared
themselves for the marriage rite. But
the strangeness of their appearance and the

marked eagerness of the bride, caused the
curate, who happened to be present, to hesitate,
and then tell them he must speak to his rector
before he could otq on with the service.

" Oh, you are only what they call a curate, I
suppose ?" cried Nancy. "Well, I am glad we
found you out, for I mean to be married by a
real vicar. Come along, Jasper, and all of you,
we will go to another place. You see it is all
right, we have got the licence, and we will find
a vicar, and he must marry us."

It is understood,' continued Mr Gordon,
that they tried with no better success at two
other churches, and then determined to return
to the country and try at a neighbouring village.
It was then getting late in the afternoon, and
to add to their misfortune, the vicar was out,
and the curate, who had heard something of
their previous performance, would have nothing
to do with them.

In due time I received an answer from the
bishop, to the intent that I must not refuse to
marry Nancy, unless a doctor would certify
that she was of unsound mind. That of course
the doctor could not do, and so after all the
business came back to me, and I had but little
time to wait when they knew I was ready to
receive them.'

And they are really married ? ' said Grace.

Yes, really,' repeated the vicar ; ' and I suppose
we may now expect to see the carrier
business of the village in a very flourishing
state.'

And had you a great crowd at the church ? '
No ; I believe they were in too great a

hurry to answer my summons to bring many of
the curious with them, and I had, as far as I
could, kept the affair quiet.'

While the course of life was thus running on
in England, Jesse was pursuing his solitary and
unsatisfactory journey in Germany. For some
days after his search had become hopeless, he
tried to cheer himself with the idea that he
should be more successful at his next halting-place,
but he only reached it to have his disappointment
repeated.

I was a fool,' he thought, * to leave home as I
did. I was in much too great a hurry. I ought
to have spoken to Lea, and learned from his
mouth some further particulars of his statement.
I knew the world was a place of change, but I
did not dream of the footprints of Lea so soon
passing away if he stopped at the hotels indicated
in his statement ; and as for the events
spoken of by the gentlemen at Brighton, I cannot
find even the shadow of their ever having

taken place. I cannot have been in the right
track for them, and the further I go the more
doubtful I become of the truth of any part of
Lea's statement. Poor Lizzie, I am afraid you
will be sorely tried in your ignorance of where
I am or what I am doing, and your trials will
only increase when I return and you hear of
my ill success.'

At length he was convinced of the utter uselessness
of going any further forward in the
present state of his knowledge. Faint and
weary he began to retrace his steps. He had
fairly worn himself out in the eagerness of his
pursuit. He had not been content to call at
the hotels and villages, named in his notes,
only, but he had turned aside to the right hand
and to the left to make his search the more
sure. At first his step was light and elastic,
his eyes clear and bright with expectation, but
all was changed now. His step was heavy and
his eyes dull. He could not disguise the fact,
even from himself, that he was becoming daily,
nay hourly, less able to bear up against the
fatigue of his journey.

On reaching Cologne he resolved to lie by
quietly for a day or two in the hope of recovering
his wonted energy. When he recommenced
his journey he felt but little refreshed, and now
VOL. II. T

another cause for anxiety pressed upon his
mind. He had for some time, in the hope of
having something to communicate of a pleasing
character to his father, put off from day to day
his letter. He now tried to perform his task,
but in vain. He felt that he was not equal to
a long letter, and to send a short one and say
he was ill was not to be thought of. All that
he could therefore do in his present unhappy
position was to hurry home by the quickest
route as soon as possible.

But the next day, on reaching Brussels, he
was so ill that he could scarcely get out of
the carriage that took him from the station to
the hotel. The manager, seeing his weakness,
led him into a room near the door, and
asked him if he had not better have medical
advice.

Have you an English doctor near at hand ?'
asked Jesse, as he sank down exhausted in an
easy-chair.

I think we have one in the hotel,' was the
reply.

Please ask him to come to me,' murmured
Jesse, as he closed his eyes from very weariness.


Shortly a physician entered the room, and
going up to his patient, who still sat motionless

o

with his eyes closed, said in a soft, bland voice,
A little overdone with a long journey.'

'Good God!' cried Jesse, ' that voice,' and
springing to his feet he found standing before
him one of the gentlemen he had met in the
hotel at Brighton.

END OF VOL. II.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.

-^LI E) RAR.Y

OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS


R792e
V.3

:>

ENTRANCED WITH A DREAM.

A NO VEL.

BY

RICHARD Rowland,

AUTHOR OF ' FISHING IN DEEP WATERS.'

IX THREE VO L UM E S.

VOL. II I.

LONDON: F. V. WHITE & CO.,
31 SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1883.

[/^// Rights resefZ'eJ.]

Croivji Svo, cloth '^s. 6d. each.

The following Volumes of the Series are now ready :—
MY SISTER THE ACTRESS. By Florence Marryat.

" My Sister the Actress " is the best novel we have had the pleasure of
reading from the pen of Miss Marryat.' — John Brill.

THE DEAN'S WIFE. By Mrs Eiloart.

Any reader who wants a good story thoroughly well told cannot do better
than read " The Dean's Wife." ' — John Bill.

A BROKEN BLOSSOM. By Florence Marryat.

a really charming stores full of delicate pathos and quiet humour ;
pleasant to read and pleasant to remember.' — john Bull.

TWO MEN AND A MAID. By Harriettt Jay.

'Compared with the former works of the authoress of" The Queen of
Connaught,' this novel must be pronounced second to none.' — Graphic.

SWEETHEART AND WIFE. By Lady Constance
Howard.

'The story from first to last is attractive, and cannot fail to command
wide favour.' — Whitehall Rc^iiew.

PHYLLIDA. By Florence Marryat.

'" Phyllis' is a novel of which the author may be justly proud.' —
Morning Post.

BARBARA'S WARNING. By the Author of ' Recommended
to Mercy. '

COLSTON ANO son, PRINTERS, Edinburgh.

CHAPTER I.

ESSE'S sudden springing to his feet,
while the exclamation of ' Good God!
that burst from his lips, caused the
stranger to take a step backward
to avoid what, for a moment, he took as the
action of a madman, or one suffering from the
effects of drink. But he was soon undeceived,
for Jesse, after attempting to say something
more, sank back again into his chair, and covering
his face with his hands, murmured, ' Surely
I am dreaming.'

My poor fellow,' said the physician,
dreams are for the night, and you see it is
still broad day.'

VOL. III. A

You sent for me,' he added, after a pause,
and I am come to see what I can do for you.'

You can do much for me — much ! If this
is not a dream,' cried Jesse, snatching his hand
again from before his face, and endeavouring to
get upright on his feet.

The physician, seeing his weak state, pressed
him gently back into his chair, placed his hand
on his forehead, and then his finger on his
pulse. These simple acts did more for the
spent man than any number of words could
have done. Jesse felt the cool hand of the
stranger on his heated brow, and then on his
wrist, as he attentively regarded a watch he
held in his hand. The idea of its being a
dream left him, followed by a thousand
thoughts, rushing tumultuously across his brain,
for which, from his weakness, he could not find
words.

You have been overtaxing your strength,'
said the physician, ' and will have to pay for
your indiscretion by spending a few days in
bed.'

In bed ! ' murmured Jesse. ' Is it fever 1 '

No, I trust not ; but if you have no friends
in the city, you will do well to make this hotel
your home for a while. I will order a bed to
be prepared for you.'

The manager, who was fearful the business
of the house would be injured, if a gentleman
suffering from some unknown disease were
admitted, said, —

I have a bedroom at your service ; but would
not the gentleman be better off in a private
house or hospital ? '

A room here will do very well.'

But will our other visitors be content to
keep him here ? '

You need not fear,' said the physician.
He is suffering from the common fault of young
travellers. A little rest and gentle treatment
will soon put him on his legs again, -I trust.'

You see'" said the manager, still doubtful.
you are both strangers here. Will you allow
our medical man to see the gentleman ? '

Yes, twenty of them, if you like. Only be
quick about it, or I shall have to complain of
your want of preparedness to receive travellers.'

The medical man soon appeared, and the
difficulty of finding accommodation there was
overcome.

Jesse's weakness rendered him, if not unable,
at least unwilling to take any part in the discussion
on the cause or extent of his illness.
He saw with secret satisfaction and pleasure
that his first visitor was disposed to be his

friend, and he was content to close his eyes and
leave the arrangement of his accommodation to
him, but he was no sooner fairly in bed, and
aroused by a glass of water, with a few drops
from a bottle the physician took from his pocket,
than he forgot his weakness, and the surprise
with which he had opened his eyes upon the
stranger again with redoubled force, returned
to his mind.

You were at Brighton some months since ? '
he said inquiringly.

Yes, but for a few hours only. I was on my
way from Dieppe to London.'

You stopped at the Grand Hotel ? '

Only for a few minutes, if I remember
right.'

You had a friend with you ? '

Yes,' replied the physician, smiling ; ' but
why are you so earnest about such a trifling
matter. Is it possible that I have come upon
a young English detective in my travels, who
is ready to pounce upon me for some imaginary
crime I have committed no one knows
where ? '

'I am not a detective,' said Jesse, 'but I
am as anxious as such a person could be to
obtain some information from you which you
have, I think, in your power to give me.'

That Is strange said the physician, looking
searchingly at his patient as if questioning the
state of his mind. After a pause, he added,
You had better keep quiet now, and refrain
from talking. In a few days, and perhaps hours,
I trust you will be able to talk rationally upon
any subject that may come before you.'

I wished to speak to you before you left
Brighton, but I missed you. How do I know,
if I do not speak now, you will not as
suddenly leave this city ? '

You shall have my word for it,' said the
physician good-naturedly, ' for I have no intention
of leaving Brussels for the next three
or four days.'

You are not resident here ? '

No ; I am on my way from Rome to Hebron,
from a tour, to see some old friends in
England.'

Heilbron,' repeated Jesse thoughtfully.

Yes,' replied the physician, ' but we will say
nothing more of our travels at present. You
must have rest, and besides, if I remain so long
with you here, in what may chance to go abroad
as the sick chamber, we may re-awaken the
fears of our timid manager. I will return to
you In a couple of hours. Settle yourself down
for a little sleep now.'

earn.

Poor Jesse, much as he desired to obtain all
the information his new friend could give him,
and satisfy his every doubt, was obliged to be
content. He was no longer the strong, robust,
spirited youth he had been when in the woods,
gun in hand, trampling through brambles and
beds of brake, thistles, and nettles, with as little
apparent difficulty as he would have had in
passing from one end of a drawing-room to
the other.

But nature, the kind nurse of the weary
body left to herself under favourable circumstances,
came softly to his aid. After allowing
him to muse a while in quiet on the
happy discovery he had made, put her hand
gently on his forehead, and singing a lullaby
in his ear, charmed him off to sleep. From
this he was aroused by his new friend, who,
entering the room at the appointed time, was
closely followed by a waiter, with a luncheon
tray, which he placed on a table near the
bed.

'Now,' said the physician, ' we must makeup
for past neglect.'

You are very kind and considerate,' said
Jesse.

A man must be a poor thing,' replied his
friend, * who sees a fellow-countryman by the

road-side, and does not hold out a helping hand
to him.'

You are giving me a practical lesson.'

The luncheon having been disposed of apparently
to the satisfaction of both gentlemen,
the physician said, —

Now, if your inquiries respecting my visit
to Brighton are not too personal or curious, I
shall be happy to listen to them.'

Do you remember,' asked Jesse, ' the subject
of the conversation you had with your
friend in the hotel at Brighton ? '

Not in the slightest degree.'

Perhaps a report In a newspaper you had
just read will recall It to your mind. A man
had been shot on the estate of a gentleman
near London, and an innocent man accused of
murdering him.'

I have a faint recollection of something of
the kind, but I could not now speak of it with
certainty.'

Not if I mention the name of Sir Edward
Harewood, which gave rise to your relating an
anecdote respecting the life of the immediate
predecessor of the present owner of Woodcome
Hall, the family seat ? '

Oh yes, I remember now ; you allude to
the late Sir Henry Harewood and his only

son, but I was not aware that I had any one
listening to my words besides the friend to
whom I was speaking.'

I was sitting in the room,' said Jesse, ' when
you and your friend took your places near me
and should doubtless have taken no special
notice of what you were saying, had not the
name of Sir Henry Harewood reached my
ear

You could not be acquainted with him.'

No ; ' replied Jesse, ' he died before I was
born ; but an incident you related in speaking
of his son strangely connected itself with an
event with which I was deeply engaged at the
time.'

'You are then, I presume,' said the physician,
' in some way connected with the family? '

'Did I not feel,' rejoined Jesse, 'that I was
in the presence of a friend, I might in reply
content myself by saying yes, slightly, but I
cannot do so now ; I must at once confess that
I am the second son of the present Sir Edward
Harewood.'

Had I been aware of that,' said the physician,
'I would not have annoyed you with the
account I gave to my friend.'

My annoyance arose not from what I heard,
but from the fact that I heard so little, and I

am now most anxious to learn all the particulars
of the circumstances to which you
alluded when speaking of the son.'

I know nothing of your family secrets,' rejoined
the physician, ' and all I can tell you of
the incident you refer to is very little, and I
think for the present we had better not touch
upon it. You are becoming excited.'

It is my ignorance that excites me.'

Well, then,' said the physician, ' if you will
be quiet, I will endeavour to cure it.' He then
ran over the particulars Jesse had listened to
at Brighton, and concluded by saying, ' I shall
now leave you to muse upon what I have said.
In the evening, if you would like me to come
and sit with you for an hour or two, I shall
hold myself at your service. I have ordered
you what you must be content to think is an
excellent dinner.'

When the evening came, Jesse was able to
take an active part in the conversation that
ensued. He gave the physician a brief account
of the cause of his journey, and his long, weary,
and unsuccessful search.

I am slightly acquainted with the village
where the young lady and her aunt lived,' said
the physician. ' It is not far from Heilbron,
but many a mile from Brussels, and I should

imagine, after the labour you have spent in
vain, you would feel little inclination to recommence
your search.'

The cause of my want of success hitherto
replied Jesse, ' is not far to seek. I have been
working, I suspect, on an erroneous statement,
if not an altogether false one. I could from
the first discover no base to rest my inquiries
upon, or perhaps I should rather say no point
I could fix upon as a base. With your kind
assistance, the case will assume an entirely
different aspect. When you think I am able
to undertake the journey, I shall go direct to
the village you name. Perhaps I may get all
the information I require there, but if I do not,
I trust I shall come upon some track upon
which I can start with a fair chance of
success.'

You must not undertake the journey at
present.'

I hope I shall be equal to it in the course
of a day or two.'

A week's rest would be more to the purpose,'
said the physician ; ' but if you will
attend strictly to my advice, you may venture,
I think, in two days from this time.'

And may I hope to have your company
part of the way ? ' asked Jesse.

For the whole of it, unless some unforeseen
occurrence should send me off in another direction,
which is not at all likely to be the case.
The primary object I had in view on leaving
home was to visit some old friends in England,
while I took a few weeks' rest from work.'

'Had an angel from heaven,' said Jesse,
directed your steps, you could not have been
of more signal service to me and the cause I
have so deeply at heart.' He then went more
fully into the history of ]\Iiss Montag and her
brother as far as it had come before him, and
concluded by confessing his love for the sister,
and the difficulty he had, when her origin was
unknown, of speaking out boldly to his father.

Your object is doubtless a very excellent
one,' remarked the physician, ' but I am afraid
you are engaged in a very unfortunate business.
Under any circumstances, you will find it a
very difficult matter to persuade your father
that it would be right for you to marry such a
person ; and to act in opposition to a father's
wall is a very serious thing to contemplate, from
whatever point of view it may be regarded.'

If I can work out my plan, as I now hope
I shall be able to do,' said Jesse cheerfully, ' I
have no fear that I shall be even tempted to
act in opposition to my father's will. He is a

cam.

just man, and will not call upon me to make
any unnecessary sacrifice

On the appointed day they set out on their
journey southward. Jesse was not so strong
his companion could have desired him to be
but the hopeful nature of his errand raised his
spirits so far above his late depression, that he
was scarcely conscious of the difference of his
present state of health and that which he usually
enjoyed. The railway has rendered the journey
from Heilbron to Brussels a mere trifle to what
it was only a few years since, but rapid and
easy as the trains may now be, it is st'U a long,
and to one who is anxious to be at the end of
his journey with as little delay as possible, and
weary ride.

But, like all other successful journeys, indue
course it was accomplished, and the physician,
adding to the many favours he had already
conferred upon Jesse, took him to his own
house at Heilbron, and the next morning went
with him to the much-talked-of village. He
had, at his first interview with Jesse, been
greatly struck with his appearance. Perhaps
his entirely dependent state on those around
him greatly aided the growth of this feeling,
when it had once taken possession of his heart.
As time passed on, the more he saw of the

honest simplicity of his character, so much the
more did his friendly feeling increase towards
him.

In the village to which they were driven,
they found several people who remembered
the once beautiful z\x\ ; but few of them could
give any particulars of her movements. She
was reported to have lived very quietly in her
cottage with her aunt, until she removed to
another village, where she was married, and her
aunt died. That the husband's business caused
him to spend much of his time from home,
until he entirely deserted her, whereupon she
fell in arrears with her landlord for rent, and
had the greater part of her furniture taken
from her. That she was then understood to
have moved to a smaller house in another village,
after which all that they could there
further learn of her was of a very shadowy
character, and evidently not to be depended on.

The physician went on with Jesse to the
second village, and proposed, in the evening,
that they should both return to Heilbron ; but
Jesse was too eager to follow up a clue he had
obtained, to allow an hour to escape from him
without its beinor turned to account.

I must be at home to-night,' said the
physician, ' and if I cannot induce you to return

with me, we must part here ; but I trust
it will only be for a season, as I should be very
sorry to lose sight of you altogether.'

If you would be sorry, sir,' said Jesse,
what think you must be my feelings in parting
with one to whom I feel I owe not only
my present hopeful position, but my life also ? '

You set too high a value on my services,'
rejoined the physician ; ' but, notwithstanding,
the best means you have of showing me that
you have appreciated them is by taking care
of your health, and letting me occasionally
hear from you.'

That I will not fail to do,' replied Jesse,
and thus, after a few more words, they parted,
the one to return to Heilbron to renew his
practice, and the other in an opposite direction,
to follow up his inquiries in a distant village
for the missing family.

Arrived at the place to which he had been
directed, Jesse had but little difficulty in discovering
the humble abode to which the wanderer
had removed ; but unfortunately he found
that, after she had stopped but a short time
there, she again got her few things together,
and started in a neighbour's cart with her two
children, a boy and a girl, for another village in
the direction of the Rhine.

Thus far, after leaving Heilbron, Jesse had
gone on, step by step, tracing the course of
the unfortunate family ; but here he came to
a sudden halt. The man who had carried
them away was not to be found. His little
establishment had long since been broken up,
and he, it was said, had gone to America and
died there.

Without one hint to guide him, Jesse went
forward, and after wandering about for two
days making incessant inquiries of any one
and every one who he thought could help
him, he felt himself sinking again into his late
listless despair. He became irresolute, and
did not know what to do, till a sudden impulse
seized upon him, and he determined
to return to Heilbron and invoke once more
the advice and aid of his disinterested friend,
the physician.

I am sorry for your disappointment,' said
the physician on receiving him again into his
house ; ' but I am glad to see you did not cast
the advice I gave you to the wind. You
must give me all the particulars of your
doings that escaped your memory when writing,
so that we may judge of what we have
yet to do.'

When I look at you,' said Jesse, * I feel

I must succeed ; your hopefulness counteracts
my fear.'

That is well said the physician, ' for you
and for me ; and I am the more encouraged
to be hopeful since it produces so happy an
effect upon you.'

That night before they retired to rest, they
went carefully over every particle of the information
obtained by Jesse in his late search.
They endeavoured to discover what had been
the ruling principle in the girl's mind in
her various movements from the place in
which she had been left by her supposed
husband.

The gathered from this consideration that
she had disliked to make her circumstances
known to any one on the spot. She had
spoken of herself as a married woman, and
said she was expecting her husband would
meet her ; but if he did not, she must go to
him. And in what direction had she gone ?
As far as they could trace her certainly, towards
the river Rhine, near to which she had
disappeared.

An idea has just struck me,' said the physician,
* that she did not make any stay in the
place, but passed from it to the river at
Manheim.'

But her object in doing so ? ' said Jesse
despondingly.

That remains to be discovered. Did you
hear anything of the general business of the
man who took her, according to your report, to
the town ? Just turn to your notes upon that
point'

Jesse opened his note-book and read: — 'The
Avoman, with her two children, left the village
in a cart. The owner, a poor man, but sober,
honest, and industrious, got his living by
doing little odd jobs for his neighbours — buying
vegetables, poultry, fish, etc., at the different
gardens and markets, and retailing them in
Manheim. He and a younger brother realised
their little property and left Germany for the
United States. Pes. — Reports reached their
late home that shortly after landing they both
took fever and died.'

'That will bear thinking about,' observed the
physician. Then, after a pause, he added, ' If
I can get a friend to take charge of my patients
again, I will go with you as far as Manheim.'

How can I ever repay you ? ' said Jesse.

We will talk of that when we have completed
our task,' said the physician. ' But does it
not strike you that you are, perchance, not under
so many obligations to me as you imagine ?
VOL. Ill, B

Every man has his weak point, and you must
have gathered from the language I have indulged
in that I partake largely of what is
called a romantic turn of mind ; that I am fond
of rambling about and interesting myself in
events which, but for my curiosity, would not
concern me in the least.'

Had you crossed my path some twenty
years since, when I was in full practice and in
the pursuit of fame and fortune, I could not
have bestowed so much time upon you ; but
now, thanks to my success in life, I have accomplished
at least one object I then had in
view, and can afford to lie by and give young
men a chance of struggling forward without
meeting with an old-established name to stop
their progress.'

Really, sir,' said Jesse, with an attempt at a
laugh, ' one would Imagine to hear you speak
that I had conferred a favour on you instead of
my being your debtor. Is it not strange,' he
added, ' that one at times feels compelled to
take a certain course without knowing from
whence the compulsion comes, or whither it
will lead one ? The idea that I have in my
mind may not fully agree with my present experience,
because from my wishing to meet with
you after your departure from Brighton, i

had an object in view. But I cannot tell you
how overwhelming my desire was to see you
again, though I could not in any degree look
forward to the kind reception I was to meet
with from you.'

The pleasure of our meeting has not been
all on your side, as you may perceive. But it
is getting late now, and we must to bed. Tomorrow,
by mid-day, I think I may safely say I
will hold myself at your service to renew our
search.'

At the appointed time the next day they recommenced
their travels, going direct to Man-hei,
where they spent three days of weary
wandering from point to point, in which they
did not gain one iota of information they could
turn to account, or that gave them a single
encouraging glimpse into the future. What
more could they do ? They feared to ask each
other. The words seemed to hang on their
lips — all further search in this place will be in
vain.

At a time when they had neither expectation
nor hope that better fortune was awaiting them,
they found themselves suddenly in possession
of a fact that sent the blood dancing through
their veins, and illumined their brightest
hopes. They were listlessly walking by the

side of the river, looking at the boats as they
passed up and;Mown the stream — some full of
merchandise, and others loaded with pleasure-seekers,
who seemed to be but little aware of
the caution necessary for the proper management
of a^v^boat, as they amused themselves
by swaying it to and fro till the roughened
water appeared ready to leap into the midst
of them.

My good people,' said a voice near to one
of the most reckless of these parties, ' if you are
not quiet, you will certainly get a wetting, if
nothing worse.'

Thank you — thank you, sir,' was returned
with a merry laugh, but with no perceptible
improvement in their behaviour.

Jesse turned his head in the direction from
whence the warning voice had come, and saw by
his side an elderly gentleman, who, in return for
the thanks he had received, replied, —

I would advise you to be warned in time.'

They appear in extreme danger,' observed
the physician.

One would think so,' rejoined the speaker ;
and yet with all their recklessness we seldom
have a serious accident here. They no sooner
get on the water than they appear to have
charmed lives.'

The conversation thus opened was continued
upon common subjects as they prolonged their
walk by the river.

When they had left the town some distance
behind them, the gentleman observed, —

You are strangers here, I perceive, and
therefore perhaps are not aware that the banks
of the river, after a certain hour In the evening,
are not considered quite so safe as the well-lighted
streets of a city.'

You do not reside in Manheim ? ' said the
physician.

No,' said the gentleman. ' I occasionally
go into the city and return, as you see me, on
the bank of the river to my house in the village
we are now approaching.'

Then you are well acquainted with the
character of this neighbourhood ? '

Yes, I ought to be, you will say,' replied the
stranger, ' when I tell you I have witnessed the
christening of the grandfathers of some of the
children you see scampering about yonder.
But you must not think when I spoke of a late
walk here, I was alluding to any of our people,
as they are rather sufferers from the roguery of
others than rogues themselves. It is the holes
and corners of the town that send us out the
unpleasant visitors I spoke of.'

You must be well acquainted with the riverside
people ? '

Yes ; and have been for the last fifty years

I am glad to hear you say so,' remarked the
physician, * as we are a little concerned about a
family that we believe migrated to the town
some time since, of whom we can find no
trace

I know but little of the people there said
the stranger.

We are not certain that she entered the
town. We traced her to a neighbouring villages
and we believe we have some knowledge
of the manner of her leaving it ; but the persons
who were with her we find went to America
and died there

Do you know the names of these persons ? '
Yes, or rather I should saps we believe we

do,' replied the physician, and then in a few
words he repeated all they had been able to
gather of the dead men and their belongings.

I think, perhaps,' said the stranger, ' I maybe
able to help you to carry on your inquiries a
little further. I remember the men you have
described very well, and I think I recollect
something of the young woman and her two
children. They did not come to our village,
but to another at a little distance, where I have

a friend like myself of long standing. We often
meet, and I have an indistinct recollection of
something he told me upon the subject. It is too
late to walk over and see him to day ; but — '

Could we not get a carriage and drive over ?'
cried Jesse, in a state of great excitement.

If the expense is no object,' said the stranger,
eyeing Jesse curiously, ' no doubt you could.'

Then by all means let us have one ; and you
will kindly accompany us, I trust?' said the
physician.

With pleasure,' said the gentleman.
The information that now came to hand was
of an important character. The stranger's
friend, amongst other things, was able to tell
his visitors that he remembered the young
woman in question perfectly well. That she
was at times very strange and excitable, and
had imparted to him what he considered a true
history of a part of her life. That a strong
desire appeared to have taken possession of her
mind that she had a friend in England, and if
she could find him, he would protect her children,
as for herself she seemed utterly careless.
I had,' continued the gentleman, ' very serious
doubts whether she was sufficientl}'possessed
of her wits to have charge of the children. But
she spoke rationally enough when she assured

me she would have money sufficient to take her
to England, but that she was afraid to go alone.
It so happened at the time that one of my people
here had a friend, who was a stewardess on one
of the river packets. I found means to see this
person, and induce her to take charge of the
woman and her children not only down the river,
but to give them in charge of some one who was
going in the sea vessel to London.'

And she left you for London ?* said Jesse
eagerly.

Yes,' was the reply ; ' and I gave her letters
which would have procured her shelter in an
institution there, had she presented them, which,
from some cause or other, she never did.'

Then you do not know that she reached
London ?'

Yes, I was assured of that by the stewardess,
for as she did not write, as I expected she would,
I became a little anxious about her, and did not
rest until I had fully satisfied myself that she
reached London safely.'

There is only one thing now that remains
to be settled to assure us that we are dealing
with the right person. Do you remember the
date of her departure for London ? '

Yes, perfectly ; and I have it in my journal,
from which you may take a copy if you please

As soon as Jesse had secured that, he had
but one object in view, which was to set out for
London by the first train that left the city. With
many thanks he parted with the philanthropists,
and, had he been able, he would have persuaded
his good friend, Mr Anson, the physician, to
accompany him ; but as that could not be, he
parted with him in tears, and an earnest promise
to write to him immediately on reaching
home, and pay him another visit as soon as an
opportunity presented itself.

Take care of your health, and look hopefully
forward,' were the last words of the physician
that greeted his ears, as the express for London
left the station.

Circum did not require a month at
Islington to complete his business,
but as he found himself In very comfortable
quarters, he was in no particular
hurry to leave. Lyson's letter notifying
his departure from Boulogne duly reached him
at his lodgings, and set his mind at rest with
respect to him. If his purse had not reminded
him of his dependent position, it Is probable he
would have spent months In his new home,
everything came to hand so very pleasantly.

He had improved his acquaintance with Mrs
Wilkins, and in part wormed himself Into the
good opinion of Miss Montag. Had she been
a mere thoughtless girl, he would doubtless
have gained the Information he required more
readily ; but with his skilful mode of proceeding,
he met with but few obstacles to prevent
him from discovering that Miss Montag had a

brother, who had been brought up with her at
Woodfield, and who was then an assistant
master in a large school at Bath.

Mrs Wilkins, from having Heed in a branch
of the Harewood family, was full of anecdotes
of its several members, and it was curious to
see how much she had told Circum, without
her being at all aware of the fact. His method
was not to go direct to the point upon which he
needed information, but to pass, as it were, ina
circle round it gradually, closing in as any
favourable opportunity for doing so presented
itself.

Devoid of the shadow of suspicion of the
true character of her new acquaintance, the old
lady chatted on to him as freely as if she had
known him for the last twenty years. There
were several reasons why Miss Montag should
be less communicative ; she was better educated,
and had read more than Mrs Wilkins. Then
she was not so old, and did not know much
more of the family affairs at the Hall than
what she had gathered from Mrs Smith, and
last, though not least, she was in a pensive state
of mind, occasioned by her fondly dwelling upon
some whispered words Jesse had poured into
her ears, just before their last parting.

Of her love for him, or of his for her, she

had made no allusion to her hostess, and
therefore it was not at all likely she would
to a stranger, however well he might lay his
traps to catch her unwary words. She could
not have spoken of certain incidents in the
past, even to a dear friend. The more she
thought of them, the more she became perplexed
to understand her real position. Why
was Sir Edward's manner gentle and kind to
her when he was so cruelly separating her
from all she best loved on earth.

And why had he chosen such a person as
Mrs Wilkins to place her with. She found
she was an old lady who appeared to take a
pleasure in letting every one know with whom
she came in contact that she had been a domestic
servant all her life. Did he desire her
to look upon herself as on an equality with
a domestic servant if not one herself? If
so, what treatment had she to expect from
him for the future ? Would he continue even
his former protection of her ? and if he did
not, what would become of her, and how could
her love for Jesse end but in miserable disappointment.


Could she still hope that his love for her
would, as he had assured her it would, overcome
all difficulties. Would not every day

tend to separate their minds farther from each
other ? How could it be otherwise when he
was living with gentlemen and ladies, and she
had no one to associate with but old servants,
petty tradespeople, and shopkeepers ? She felt
she was in a cruel position, and if she could
have had any serious doubt of Jesse's constancy,
she would have been very miserable indeed.

He had expressed a wish to her that she
should not write to her brother a word of their
secret engagement, but leave the task to him,
which he would undertake to do in full after
he had spoken to his father; and to this she had
offered no opposition. But despite her confidence
in him, she felt the irksomeness of her
surroundings very sadly. Day followed day
without the slightest change taking place as
would appear for better or worse in that which
so nearly concerned her happiness.

She had promised Sir Edward that, without
his permission, she would hold no communication
with his son, and the idea of breaking
her promise did not occur to her ; but she
could not help feeling that it was a little hard
that she should be kept in total ignorance of
what was passing at Woodfield, and that she
could not hear one single word of Jesse, even
to assure her that he was well.

But all these thoughts, and many more of
the same kind, she kept carefully to herself.
Circum suspected, from his close observance
of her, that all was not as it should be in her
little heart ; but with all his skill, assisted by
certain cues he received from Mrs Wilkins,
he could not, on that subject, obtain her confidence.
' No matter,' he thought, ' I have
learnt enough for my present purpose, and
there can be no mistake about her brother
being the boy I have been in search of. He
is now evidently under the influence of the
redoubtable Sir Edward, and it will shortly
be my interest and business to make some
playful inquiries respecting him, and then induce
him to look to me as his best friend.'

For a while it was a serious question with
him whether he would join Lyson at the Down-end
vicarage as an old friend, or stop at some
village near at hand, and act the part of a
stranger to all in the country. The first had
promise of personal comfort, but that, at the
present time, must not be too closely looked
to. There was only one difficulty of going
as a stranger, which consisted in his chance of
getting too soon at the bottom of his purse.
I like the idea best,' he thought, ' of the
stranger ; and if I settle on that and find ita

little expensive, I must make for the vicarage
and free quarters.'

Having secured a friend in ]airs Wilkins,
and a retreat in his present lodgings, should
he have occasion to return again to London,
he took leave of his newly-made friends, mingling
with his good-bye many thanks and expressions
of gratitude, with a few tears for the
great and unlooked-for kindness he had experienced
from them.

Before he left London he provided himself
with a small stock-in-trade, by means of which
he would have an excuse for introducing himself
to the notice of any person from whom
he desired to obtain information. Note-paper
with envelopes and pens. A few tracts, and
certain nostrums of home manufacture, which
he had found did him good service in Germany,
possessing no other virtue than might be found
in a mixture of bread and chalk brought to
a state of consistency by the admixture of a
little gum softened with water from a boiled
onion.

Woodfield, he had learnt, was a quiet village
about five miles from the station where he
would have to stop, but that there was a
carrier going from it to the village with
whom he might ride if he could suit to meet

him at a certain hour in the afternoon. This
for various reasons, he resolved to do. His
business was to get as much information ashe
could of the inhabitants of Woodfield without
seeming to go out of his way to secure
it. A chandler's shop or a carrier's cart are
most suitable for village gossip. It appears
as natural to them as feathers to a duck's back.
The old lady weighing out the tea and sugar
must talk, there is no keeping her from it ;
and so with the carrier's cart that passes on
from corner to corner, taking up a lass here
and a grandmother there. The one looking
with bright eyes to the future, and seeing
nothing in the world worth thinking about
that will not invite a laugh ; while the old
lady, with dim eyes and aching limbs, takes
her seat with a groan, which seems to say, —
My poor old bones do ache so,' as she looks
back to the troubles and trials of the past, and
thinks what a weary world this is to live in.

Then the carrier, old or young, as the case
may be, has his welcome to all comers, and
receives them as friends. Listens to their tales
of pleasure or pain, and in return tells them
the news of the day as it has reached him from
many quarters.

Circum, having safely accomplished his journey

by rail, found the carrier's cart near the
station nearly ready to start Two passengers
had taken their seats within the cart. One,
a comely old dame, the wife of a farm bailiff,
and the other, a buxom girl, a kitchen-maid
at Woodcome Hall.

I am afraid you have not room for me,'
said Circum.

Oh yes, plenty of room,' cried the driver ;

jump up.'

But I do not see any place to jump into ! '
said Circum.

Yes, here's plenty of room in here,' cried
the girl.

You are getting like me, sir,' said the bailiff's
wife, * rather stiff in the joints.'

'Well, just a little,' said Circum, as he clambered
up and squeezed himself in between the
women.

I don't think the biggest men have the
sharpest bones,' whispered the girl to the driver,
as she found Circum's elbow making a dent in
her fat side.

That's a fine specimen of a horse you have
there,' said Circum to the driver, as they
moved away from the station.

I should rather think he is,' said the driver.

He cost money enough, I know,'

VOL. III. c

Have you had him long ? '

No ; bought him the other day.'

Now, Jasper,' cried the girl, ' if I didn't
hear Nancy say she bought him and paid for
him herself.'

But, you know, we two are one now ? ' said
Jasper, ' and so whatever Nancy does I do.'

Married, ay ? ' said Circum.

Yes, all right about that.'

And a precious job you had to make it all
right,' cried the girl.

Never you mind,' retorted Jasper, ' only
take care when it comes to your turn you
manage better.'

I will,' laughed the girl ; ' but I suppose I
have no chance while I am young. I must
wait, like my neighbours, till I get old. Had
you there, Jasper.'

What a girl you are,' said the bailiff's
wife.

Do you think so ? ' roared the girl.

You seem to have some fine trees in your
meadows here ? ' said Circum. ' I suppose the
land is good '^. '

Well,' said Jasper, ' I think it is about the
best of any in this part of the country.'

Some good houses and gentlemen's parks
near ? ' said Circum inquiringly.

That over there belongs to Mr Smeaton,
and on this side to Sir Edward Harewood.'

He lives at Woodfield, does he not ? '

Yes,' said Jasper, ' but the grounds go a
long way out.'

Yes, that they do,' said the bailiff's wife,
for our farm is a good three miles round.'

Sir Edward has a large family said Circum.

Has he 1 ' said Jasper. ' I didn't know
that.'

I meant to ask you if it was large said
Circum.

Oh, I beg your pardon said Jasper. ' I
thought you said he had a large family

Then he has not ? ' said Circum.

No, unless two sons and two daughters area
great many.'

And is that all his establishment consists of 1 '
Yes, excepting his servants, horses, and

dogs.'

No visitors ?'

Oh yes, scores of them.'

I mean, living with him in the house ? ^

Yes, to be sure ! they do,' said Jasper.

What ! scores of them ? '

Yes, but not all at the same time.'

Is the vicarage near the Hall ? ' asked

Circum.

o

There it is, away there on the right side of
the wood.'

Have you not a clergyman of the name of
Lyson somewhere in the neighbourhood ? '

About ten miles across the country.'

Is he a good preacher ? '

He is too far off for us to know much about
him.'

Why, how you talk, Jasper,' broke in the
girl ; ' any one hearing you talk would think you
were an old man, and had been a carrier here
for nobody knows how many years, when you
have only just left Mr Oliver's service, and setup
for yourself.'

I don't see,' said Jasper, * what that has todo
with it'

Why, you know, you used very often to ride
over to Elston Court, which is very near Mr
Lyson's.'

Has Mr Lyson any children ? ' asked
Circum.

Yes,' said the bailiffs wife, * he has two
daughters at home with him, and a son abroad,
nobody knows where.'

I heard he was dead,' said Jasper.
Oh, but that was all stuff.'

Well,' said Jasper, * if all I have heard of
him is true, he wouldn't be much missed if he

was dead, for any good he has done while
living.'

Stop here, please,' said the bailiff's wife,
and let me get down. I will walk across the
field.'

Put me down by the church said the girl,
and don't take me by your house, to make
your wife jealous.'

Oh ! she will not be jealous of you,' said
Jasper.

Not old enough,' said the girl. ' Well,
never mind ; here's the church, so please set
me down.'

And where shall I leave you, sir ? ' asked
Jasper.

At any place,' replied Circum, ' where you
think there is a chance of my getting a night's
lodging.'

Lodgings are not very plentiful here just
now said Jasper, * but you might get a bed at
the " Rose and Crown." '

I would rather go to a private house.'

'Well,' said Jasper, 'this is my place,' as he
pulled up at the end of the village.

As the cart stopped the door of the house
was suddenly opened from within, and a little
short woman appeared on the threshold, crying
out, ' So here you are again, Jasper, come homelike

a good boy, to your own Nancy ; and have
you brought Mr Short with you ?'

No ; he is not able to come for a week,'
replied Jasper.

There now said Nancy, * what was the use
of my stopping at home all the day to get the
room ready for him, and he not a-coming for a
week. I say it's tiresome, that it is.'

Well,' said Jasper, ' perhaps you can take
this gentleman in instead of him. You see, he
is just come with me from the station, and wants
to get a bed in the village for the night.'

Couldn't let him have it for one night,' said
Nancy. ' Leave us the dirt of a week for a
night's pay.'

Take me in,' said Circum, ' and I will pay
you for a week, if I only stop one night.'

That seems fair enough,' said Jasper.

Is he respectable' asked Nancy.

Ask him, if you are not satisfied with his
looks.'

You seem all right,' said Nancy to Circum,
as she looked him down from head to foot ;
but have you a good character .^ '

Excellent,' replied Circum.

Then come in,' said Nancy, ' and you shall
have Mr Short's room for a week, but no
longer, mind, unless he disappoints us again.'

By the time the traveller was fairly settled in
his new lodgings, which would afford him so many
opportunities for his plotting without the eye of
suspicion resting upon him, Lyson had made
himself quite at home at the Downend vicarage.
He had found his father, as he expected, in a
very low state ; but he found also that, though
he was at times fretful and peevish, he was in
the full possession of his faculties, and not
blinded by mere animal affection to the faults
of his now professedly repentant son.

But it was not so with his sisters. If ever
there was a poor, injured innocent on earth, that
person was their dear brother, who, through
the machinations of his enemies, had been an
exile from England for so many years. They
had excuses prepared for him on every side,
and they were very earnest many times in
asserting that they were astonished to see him
looking so well after having passed through so
many trials.

If it had not been for the presence of his
father he would have indulged them with more
tales of his imaginary wrongs from his enemies,
and the falseness of his pretended friends ; but
there was something in the expression of the
old man's face which told him that what fell
upon his sisters' ears as gospel truth did not"

convey that conviction to his mind, which was
necessary for the success of his scheming.

Some days after his return, the vicar said to
his son, —

*You have not spared yourself, Maypole,
in the accounts you have given us of the easy
manner in which you have allowed yourself
to be swindled. But I must warn you that
some of your statements I cannot understand,
and others I find it difficult to believe. You
tell me that for years the one desire of your
heart has been to revisit the place of your birth,
and yet in the next breath you mention a
frivolous incident that held you in France.'

I think you are a little hard upon me, father.'

Hear what I have to say,' continued the
vicar, * and then answer me if you can. I
repeat I feel it difficult to believe that you have
ever really wished to return to us, and shall I
say to your wife. Have I not sent you money
to meet the expenses of your journey more than
once, and for the arrangement of your affairs,
even to the impoverishment of myself and the
beggary of your sisters 1 and now if I am taken
away from them before I am able to put aside
a little portion for their use, what is to become
of them I do not know. If it were not for my
church living, you would have reduced me to

look twice at a penny before I gave It to a
starving wretch to buy bread, lest the time
should come when your sisters would want it
for a like purpose.

I tell you this, that you may know that
although I am glad to have you at Downend
again, I cannot be blind to your great faults,
much less fall into the error of your sisters, who
appear to think, because you have told them of
your trouble, that the faults from which you
have suffered have all originated in others, and
that you have few or no sins that call upon you
for repentance.'

If they think so I shall be the first to tell
them that they are greatly mistaken,* said
Lyson ; and then added, * I come back a repentant
sinner to do all I can to redeem my
misspent time.'

I trust you speak from your heart,' said the
vicar, ' and that you will endeavour to, in the
scriptural phrase, " bring forth fruit meet for
repentance." In speaking to you as I have
done, I have performed a task, and as you may
perceive a very unpleasant one, but I could not
rest until I had made you understand me. It
is over now, and I will not again remind you
of the past unless it reappears in the present,
which I most heartily pray it may not do.*

I will take care that it shall not,' rejoined
Lyson ; and then added, 'and now, since you have
held the picture of my past life up before me,
I will crave your attention for a few minutes,
and then ask you to tell me if you do not think
I have had some cause presented to me to produce
the miserable failings of which I have been
guilty. Some twenty years ago I left you for
foreign service. I took with me a young wife,
amiable as she was beautiful. One I had with
difficulty won from a rich rival.'

'Surely you are beside yourself,' cried the
vicar, interrupting him ; ' I never heard of any
rival, rich or otherwise. Your rival must have
been an imaginary one, for I am satisfied Miss
Cresswell was never conscious of the existence
of such a being.'

Whether she was conscious of it or not,'
replied Lyson, * I speak but the simple truth,
and of which to this day I have the proof in my
own hands, I speak of Sir Edward Harewood.'

You amaze me,' said the vicar, turning very
pale. * Let me see your proof.'

You shall see it, and know that Sir Edward
Harewood was in love with my wife before I
married her. The connection that has since
existed between them, you and my sisters must
be in a better position forbidding than I am.'

Your proof, your proof! ' cried the vicar ; ' I
will not listen to one word more until you have
placed it palpably before my eyes.'

Lyson's answer was to take excitedly or
seemingly so a small packet of letters from his
pocket-book, and when he had carefully unfolded
one of them to hold it up before his
father, as he said, *You know the handwriting?'

Yes, it is Sir Edward Hare wood's.'

Shall I read it to you ? ' said Lyson.

No, no, give it to me with my spectacles,
and I will read it for myself. I have nothing
but my own eyes that I can trust.'

On my word, sir,' said Lyson, ' you treat
me worse than you would do the greatest
stranger in the world.'

The vicar did not reply ; his whole attention
was taken up with the letter before him. It
was one of those which Sir Edward had written
to his then supposed friend, in which his love
for Edith was not only strongly expressed, but
his resolve to propose to her as soon as he had
finished his college course, and was in a position
to satisfy her father that his future prospects
were such as would warrant his taking a wife.

Having read the letter, the vicar turned it
over in his hand as he said, ' This has come
upon me very unexpectedly. You must give

me time to think of it. I am not so strong as I
was when you left me, either in mind or body.'

You said'* observed Lyson, ' that I must
appeal to the evidence of your eyes. I have
done so, and I will now patiently wait for your
reply. If you are not yet satisfied, I have other
letters here couched in similar terms.'

I have seen enough,' said the vicar ; ' but
tell me he added, after a pause, ' how did it
happen that this letter was written to you ?
From its tone, it appears to have been written
in confidence to a friend. Did the writer at
that time know that you also were in love with
Edith?'

I must remind you,' said Lyson, * that that
is not the question. I undertook to satisfy you
that, before I married my wife, Sir Edward was
in love with her. I spoke not to condemn him,
but in some manner to justify myself for the
apparent careless manner in which I have been
living away from you and my dear sisters.'

You do not answer my question,' said the
vicar, ' and I am too ill and weak to argue with
you. Give me all the letters you have bearing
on the subject, and leave them with me for
an hour or two, and then I will tell you
in what light I am disposed to view the
transaction.'

Here are four more letters,' said Lyson, ashe
placed them in the trembling hands of his
father, ' and as you desire, I will leave them with
you for a couple of hours. If I am not greatly
mistaken, when you have read and considered
their import, and remember how the parties
during the last four years have been living in
such close communion, you will better understand
than you have yet done why I did not
seek an interview with my wife immediately on
my return.'

■:k*H«:'.>

EFT to himself, the vicar spread the
letters out on the table before him
in the order of their dates, and then,
one by one, read them carefully
through. It was a heavy task for him, but he
persevered to the end. Then he leaned back
in his chair, and placing his left hand before
his eyes, allowed his right to fall listlessly across
his knees.

One thing was painfully apparent to him.
His son's conduct to his friend could not be
justified. The letters bore in every line
evidence that they had been written in the
unstudied freedom of personal friendship ; and
more than that, they gave evidence that they
had been answered in a like spirit, without
giving the slightest indication of the writer's
love for Edith. But his son had told him ' that
was not the question.' ' Perhaps it is not,*

sighed the vicar, ' but it is so nearly joined toit
that I cannot look at the one without seeing
the other.'

The first letter would have produced sentiments
in the mind of an honourable man that
must have caused him to answer it in a manner
which would have put an end to the correspondence.
He would have said to his friend,
You have chosen the wrong person for the
depositary of your secret. I am not bound to
tell you that I am in love with the young lady
myself, but I can hold no further communication
with you upon the subject, unless your next
letter is written in a totally different tone to the
last.'

Had my son acted in such a way, a personal
explanation must have ensued. That he made
a gross mistake in answering it as he did, is but
too plain, even to the prejudiced eyes of a
father ; how, then, must it appear to those of a
stranger ?

If Edith knew of Edward's love for her,
she, too, must have been very blameworthy ;
but what is to be said if her regard for him
was only what he thought it — that of a sister
for a brother — and she was kept in ignorance
of any other feeling having found a place in
his heart ?

Who will answer the question. I cannot as
I would. Everything tends to force the conviction
upon me that my son kept her purposely
in ignorance for the furtherance of his own
views. What has occurred since I know not,
and I would to God I were not called upon to
inquire. But the burden that is laid upon me
I must bear, if not cheerfully, at least with
patient resignation. No one who has observed
them can be ignorant of the familiar terms in
which Edith and Sir Edward have for years
been living. My daughters will doubtless
remind me that they have often remarked upon
its impropriety, and of the dulness of my comprehension
in not understanding the state of
affairs.'

At the end of two hours Lyson, accompanied
by his sisters, returned to the room. He had
marked out the lines, in his own mind, upon
which he would go. He would be the injured
husband and the forbearing son. Nothing
should tempt him to speak harshly to his father,
or of other than in pitying terms of his poor
deluded wife.

Well, father,' said Lyson, ' you have read
my letters, and so, if you please, before I ask
you for your opinion of them, I will restore them
to a place of safety.'

The best place for them would be the fire
said the vicar.

Oh, papa, how can you say so ? ' cried Miss
Lyson.

And have you seen them ? ' asked the vicar.

To be sure we have, papa,' she replied.
Brother has been very kind. You see he has
full confidence in us, and would not have us
ignorant of a matter that must soon come
before the public, and — '

Come before the public ! ' cried the vicar.

Yes, certainly, papa. You surely would
not have Maypole put up with his wrongs herein
silence, whatever he may have had to do
with bad people in France.'

But he must first prove that he has been
wronged.'

Oh, papa, how cruel you are ! Do you
not remember how many times I and Dorothy
have called your attention to the manner in
which certain parties have met and conversed
together, and how often we wished Maypole
would return to stop it.'

Yes, yes,' said the vicar, ' but what does
that prove ? '

Everything ! ' was the triumphant answer.

I think we are wandering from the question
before us,' said Lyson. ' These letters I left

VOL. III. D

with you, that you miorht read and consider
their import, may I ask if they have effected
the purpose I intended they should do?'

'Yes, and more than you intended, I suspect
replied the vicar. * They have told me of a
dishonourable action performed by one too
nearly related to me to be left in io-france of
my opinion respecting it.'

I grieve,' said Lyson, ' to perceive that you
are still unforgiving, — that the faults and the
sins of my early days have blinded you to the
suffering I have had for years to endure.'

Do, papa,' said Miss Lyson, ' be a little
charitable to our poor, suffering brother. You
must remember how happy he was in his
marriage when he returned with us from the
church.'

Happy !' cried Lyson, as if unable to keep
silence when the picture of his marriage was
brought before him. ' Happy, did you say !
Yes, I was happy then, and in my ignorance
of the future I thought my happiness would
last for ever. You know how devoted I was
to my young wife, and how eager I was to take
her to Paris and to introduce her into the best
society there.'

Ah, brother ! ' said Dorothy, * you were too
kind to her.'

I must not have you think so said Lyson,
^ though, indeed, I studied her every wish, and
was often teased by gentlemen for my great
attention to her.'

Yes, and well you might be, brother,' said
Dorothy.

Then, within a year I brought her back to
see her father and mother. You know how
tenderly I watched over her, and how readily I
agreed to go to London for a few days before
we returned to Paris ? '

'Yes, I remember,' said Miss Lyson; *and
when we begged you to stop a little longer at
Downend, you said you could not, as some one
would be greatly disappointed if you had not a
few days to spare for London.'

Then,' continued Lesson, * when my poor
wife fell sick and was recommended chancre of

o

air, you know on more than one occasion how
readily I agreed to let her return to Downend
to spend a few weeks with her friends ? '

Oh yes, brother,' said Dorothy, ' we know
it all but too well'

And how have I been rewarded ! ' cried
Lyson, as he wiped a crocodile tear from his
eye. * In other words, what followed my devotion
to my wife ? Simply this. When, through
the misconduct and jealousy of others, I lost

-"^i:KSiTYOFlLLmott

my appointment in Paris, and to escape annoyance
removed to a distance, my wife — who
should have been my comforter — would not
join me in my exile, nor have me return to
her at her father's house. What wonder, then,
I would ask, if at times I became desperate,
and sought to drive away my miserable thoughts
at the card-table, where I had the misfortune
to be cheated and robbed, as I now know one
unaccustomed to the place was certain to be.

But all is over now. Once more I am in
the sanctity of a happy home, and how much
soever I have been neglected and injured by
one who has been living here in luxury — and,
I fear, in sin — when she should, as in duty
bound, have been by my side and sharing my
discomforts, I would willingly forgive and forget
all her shortcomings if the decencies of life
would permit me.'

But they will not, brother ! ' exclaimed Miss
Lyson. ' If you were to submit in silence to
your wrongs, you would scarcely be received in
society again — certainly not with your wife.'

I think I must be guided by circumstances,'
said Lyson. ' Only after the most searching
and diligent inquiry can I take my next step,
and not even then, if it would lead me into
court, unless my father looks more favourably

and trustingly upon me than I fear he does at
present.'

Have I not trusted you ? ' said the vicar
peevishly. ' Your sisters know how I have
trusted and prayed for you. Be but single-hearted
and true to yourself as an honourable
man, and you shall not henceforth have reason
to complain that you do not stand in the relation
of a dear son to me. I cannot say nor
hear more now ; I am weary, and must have
quiet and rest.'

The respect Circum had for the state of his
purse obliged him to pursue a more rapid
course than in his judgment he could approve.
He found his room, to which he had been introduced,
very comfortable, but rather noisy.
Before daylight the next morning he was
aroused by Nancy calling out to her maid to
get up and light the fire. In her mother's time
she had been the maid, but now that she had
come into her property and was married, she
told Jasper she would be a maid no longer, —
that she was a wife, and would be a mistress,
and have a maid and manage her herself. Summing
up what she would have and what she
would not have, by saying, * So mind, Jasper,
she's my maid, and don't you touch her.'

You had better keep her out of my way,

then,' said Jasper, ' If she happens to be a
sleepy one, or I shall have to wake her up for
you.'

No, you won't,' said Nancy, ' for I shall do
that myself, so I tell you again you are not to
touch her unless you want to get my monkey

up.'

'All right,' cried Jasper ; 'maid or no maid,
monkey or no monkey, quiet's the order of the
day with me.'

And so it was settled the girl was to be
Nancy's maid, and very early in the morning
she became aware of the fact.

Circum had, before retiring to rest on the
previous evening, made some very necessary
inquiries respecting the victualling department.
It suits me best,' he said, 'while stopping ina
house like yours, to board with the family.
I am not very particular about my food, so
that it is clean and well-dressed, and that I am
sure it will be with you, seeing how clean and
nice everything looks.'

Yes, everything is clean and nice,' said
Nancy ; ' and so It ought to be, for you see weare
just married, and almost everything is
new.'

Then I may have a knife and fork at your
table?'

'What do you say, Jasper ? ' asked Nancy.

Just as you like, so that we are all ready in
good time.'

My maid,' said Nancy, ' will always have
everything ready in good time.'

At breakfast the next morning Circum commenced
business by getting the happy couple
into a general conversation about the surrounding
country places and people. He found Jasper
rather difficult to deal with. He was not
much open to flattery, but with Nancy the case
was very different. The soft modulated tones
of her lodger's voice struck her as the sweetest
music, and no sooner was Jasper off with his
cart than he began to praise up the cottage,
with the furniture, and especially the order in
which it was kept, that Nancy, as she listened
to him, was almost beside herself with pleasure
at the idea of being the mistress of such a
house.

But he soon found that he had overshot the
mark, for when he would have turned the conversation
to objects and persons in and about
the village, he could not get Nancy's thoughts
away from her beautiful cottage, and the many
interesting and useful pieces of furniture it
contained. ' Now, ain't this a beautiful pair of
bellows hanging up here ? ' she said. ' I like

bellows ; don't you ? The fire does so blaze
when you hear them go puff, puff, as you push
the handle down and pull it up again. They
are bran new, only cost — well, I forget what,
as I let Jasper buy them, but you see they
belong to me, because I gave him the money

Your husband seems a good man,' said
Circum, endeavouring to get her mind away
from her bellows, * but I think he would look
better if he would let his beard grow.'

Let his beard grow ? ' cried Nancy, with a
laugh. * Why, he's got none to grow.'

I see,' said Circum ; * he wants a little of
the Indian crete to help it through the skin.'

And what stuff is that ? ' asked Nancy.

The stuff, as you call it,' replied Circum,
is used by the princes and great men of India,
and is very dear. No matter how hard the
skin is, it softens it and brings the hair through
in no time.'

Do you think Jasper's skin is hard ? '

Hard ? yes,' replied Circum ; * I should say
it is, and in its present state you might as well
think of getting a hair through as pushing your
needle through your fire-shovel. If it is not
very hard, why doesn't the hair come through
and make him look like other men ? '

And do you really think it would make

his beard grow if I could get some of it for
him?'

Yes, in a month or two it would do wonders
'Well, I do like a beard,' said Nancy, 'but

where can I get the Negro lingo ? '

'The Indian crete' said Circum.

'Well, never mind the name, only tell me
where I can get the stuff. You don't happen
to have a little of it by you now, do you ? '

Let me see,' said Circum, ' the last I had
was for Prince Kissmytoes, and I think I have
a little left.'

But is it very dear ? ' asked Nancy.

Five guineas a box, but I have only a
lite left, and that I can let you have for a
guinea.'

A guinea ! ' said Nancy, * but that's a sight
of money.'

Yes, but see what you would get for your
money. Your fine young husband with a long
beard, looking so much like a gentleman that
you wouldn't know him in his best Sunday
clothes from a prince.'

I'll have it ! ' cried Nancy ; * I should like
to see Jasper with a beard, and looking like a
prince, that I should.'

You shall have it. But now mind what I
say to you, you must be very careful how you

use it, as perhaps your husband may object to
a beard, or the shape you want it.'

You leave that to me ; I know how to
manage him.'

Well,' said Circum, * I do not wish to interfere
in such a delicate matter, but if you will
take my advice, you will apply it yourself when
he is quietly asleep. You see, if it is not carefully
used it might get on the wrong place, and
it would look strange to see it sprouting out
over his nose.'

Ha, ha, ha!' roared Nancy, 'so it
would. Well, then, I will take your advice,
and put it on myself when he is abed and
asleep.'

Circum was now fairly on easy terms with
Nancy, and anything he might wish to know
about the people at the Hall, as far as she
knew, was at his service, and he was not slow
to discover that what she did not herself know
she would obtain for him from her husband.
Having ascertained where he could meet the
nurse who took charge of Miss Montag and
her brother, when they were found in the
park, he made his way to the green lawn, by
the side of which stood the cottage of Mrs
Brown. Introducing himself as a gentleman
travelling for a large firm in London, he opened

his parcel to show her some specimens of his
paper.

I hope you have not come out of your way
to my cottage,' said Mrs Brown. ' I write but
few letters, and I find more paper than I want
in the village.'

But then you have the trouble to go for it
said Circum.

No, I have a lite fellow always ready for
that. Why don't you go to the Hall or the
school ? you might have a chance of business
there, with me you have none.'

I suppose your little fellow is at his lessons
now ? Is the school near you ? '
About a quarter of a mile off.'

I think I will go and see the schoolmaster.
Have you any message for your boy ?'

You are not likely to see him, or know him
if you do.'

But the schoolmaster might point him out
to me.'

Well,' said Mrs Brown, ' if you should see
him, please tell him that I want him to run
home as soon as the school is over.'

I will not forget,' said Circum, as he left
the cottage.

In a few minutes he had introduced himself
to the schoolmaster, and by his plausible

manner removed a frown from that gentleman's
brow, which had gathered there when he discovered
his visitor was only a commercial traveller
come to pester him for orders.

If it were not that I pity you for having
to travel about on such an errand, I should
not only be annoyed, but angry, at being called
away from my duties.'

A few soft words, well spiced with flattery,
very shortly placed him on friendly terms with
the schoolmaster, who was ever ready to hear
remarks on elementary schools as they exist in
the present day, and suppositions of the kind of
men that will arise from board school pupils.

Do you think,' asked Circum, * that the next
generation will be as honest and religious as
the present ? '

That is a question I am not prepared to
answer,' said the schoolmaster ; ' but, as I hear
one of my most wayward pupils growing noisy,
I must bid you good day.'

By-the-bye,' said Circum, ' I nearly forgot to
say that I called at a cottage down a green lane,
and learnt from an old lady that she had a boy
here she wished to run home as soon as school
was over.'

The very boy who is now troublesome in his
class, and if you would see what he is like, I

will send him to you. If I mistake not, you are
an old schoolmaster.'

You are not far wrong said Circum. ' Pray,
let me see the youth, that I may compare him
with some pupils who long since passed through
my hands.'

There,' said the schoolmaster, as he opened
the door of a waiting-room, ' if you will take a
seat I will send the boy to you.'

He was scarcely seated when, with a flushed
face and fiery eye, Stephen Elvin entered the
room. On seeing the white-bearded face before
him, he suddenly stopped, and said, —

Did you send for me, sir ?'

I have come from Mrs Brown,' said Circum,
and she wished me to tell you she wants you
to run home as soon as the school is over.'

But I shall not be able,' said Stephen.

And why not ? '

Because I shall be kept in, and for nothing
too ! '

Kept-in boys generally think so, I believe,'
said Circum.

But I know it,' retorted Stephen bitterly.
There is never a boy tumbles over a form, or
gets a spots ink on his nose, but I am fixed upon.'

Perhaps your forms are shaky .^ '

^ The boys are that sit upon them,' was the

quick reply, ' and tempt a fellow to give them a
sly poke, but it is not always I that do it.'
But the ink on the nose ? ' said Circum.

Then why do they sit half asleep, with their
eyes shut, when they ought to be at work on
their lessons.'

And so you are in disgrace for this now ?
No said Stephen, * it's only because I let
my slate fall on the assistant's toes.'
'Only that?'

Well, why did he pull my ear, and call me a
stupid lout ?'

That I cannot tell,' said Circum ; ' but as
you appear very sorry — '

I am not a bit sorry,' said Stephen, interrupting
him.

Well, as you are wanted at home, will you
thank me if I try to beg you off.'

Yes, if you please — only don't ask me to
say I am sorry.'

When the schoolmaster came in, although he
made a great point of saying how difficult it
was to deal with bad boys, and a great deal
more to the same purpose, he was not displeased
with the request for the remission of punishment,
as in the present case it was not a very serious
offence. Fortunately for Stephen he was not
-called upon at that time to return to his class.
Jt was twelve o'clock, and out into the road

shed the boys as soon as they were dismissed,
evidently resolved to make up in noise out of
doors for the enforced silence they had had to
submit to within.

Having thus gained a favourable introduction
to the schoolmaster, Circum without difficulty
led the conversation to pupil teachers,
and through them to a late one in the school,
the brother of Miss Montag. On leaving the
school, as he passed through the group of noisy
boys, he thought, ' I have made a good beginning
here. My next business is to find my
way Into the great house, and learn how things
are proceeding there, where, as I understand
from my sensible friend, Nancy, the wife's Lyson,
with her father and mother, are on a visit.

I must get acquainted with the servants, and
disburden them of their knowledge of the family
secrets. Then by some means or other get over
to Downend, and learn from Lyson what discoveries
he has made amongst his friends, and
how far he is resolved to go against his wife should
our first attempt to frighten the great man fail to
reach his pocket in the way of accommodation.

My nostrum for the cure of all diseases must
open the great house to me ; but I think I will
spend a day or two upon the outworks before
I commence my attack upon the interior.
From the alehouse to the stable is but a step.

and once in the midst of the stablemen, I shall
find a straight path to the servants' hall.'

While taking his glass of ale at the bar of
the ' Lion,' with ears and eyes fully alive to all
that was going on around him, one of Sir
Edward's servants entered the door, and called
for a glass of gin and water hot.

Won't you come in and take a seat ? ' said
the landlady, to whom the order was given.

No ; can't stop a minute,' said the man.
I'm off for a drive to Downend again for
more luggage.'

Your company going to stop longer, I suppose
? ' said the landlady, as she was busily
employed in completing the order.

Don't know,' was the reply.

Mr Oliver going with you ? '

No ; I think not'

Well, now,' said the landlady, * I was just
thinking he was.'

A bit more sugar, please. Thank you.'
Having now the mixture to his taste, he
said, ' Mr Oliver was going ; but he has
one of his bad headaches come on, so I am
going alone.'

A fine chance for me,' said the landlady, ' if
I happened to be going that way.'

And for me too,' thought Circum, ' if my

work were a little forwarder here ; but I think
I will go as it is.' He then said to the landlady,—


This seems rather an awkward country to
get about in. I want to go to Downend myself,
and I find I must walk half the way.'

If I fall in with you on the road,' said the
man, ' I may give you a lift, but you must be off
pretty sharp, or you will be behind.'

Thank you,' said Circum ; ' I am not a good
walker, but I will push on as fast as I can till
you overtake me.'

All right,' said the man, ' I will look out for
you.'

On his way by his lodgings, Circum called
in to tell Nancy that he would not be home to
dinner, but he would make up for it at tea-time.
Having settled that point to their mutual satisfaction,
for Nancy was very busy with her
maid, and didn't want, as she said afterwards,
to be bothered getting dinner for him, and her
husband not at home ; he struck out boldly, as
if intending to walk the whole distance. He
had not, however, gone a mile down the road
when carriage-wheels from behind greeted his
ears, and looking back he saw his friend of the
alehouse rapidly approaching ; but to his dismay
a smart young lady was seated by his side.

VOL. III. E

No Downend for me to-days he thought ; ' I
must find an excuse for turning back.'

Well, you have stepped out pretty well,' said
the man, as he pulled up by his side. ' I
thought we should catch you before you got
half as far. Jump up. You can open and shut
the door yourself.'

And Circum found to his surprise and pleasure
that the vehicle was not a mere trap, but a light
waggonette, made to carry four persons more or
less, according to the amount of luggage they
had with them.

The horse was fresh, the road good, and the
air bracing, so onward they went right merrily.
The young lady proved to be one of the housemaids
from the Hall, who was going for a ride
to Downend. Circum sat very comfortably
within speaking and hearing distance of his
companions. But after the driver had said,
Are you all right ? ' and put the horse in
motion, they appeared to pay little or no attention
to him, but chatted on together with the
ease and freedom of old friends.

Circum soon learnt the position the girl held
in the Hall, and immediately concluded that he
had accidentally fallen upon a piece of good luck.
To look over the inside of a house, and get
a plan of its domestic arrangements, without

going into it, is always amusing, and unaccompanied
with danger,' he thought, ' so just to
wear away the time, if for no more profitable
purpose, I will try and sketch on my brain the
interior of the enemy's castle.'

Who have you got in your post this afternoon
?' he heard the man say.

No one,' replied the girl. * I was up early,
and did all I could myself; and I expect I shall
have a good deal to do when I get back again.'

Do your' visitors make you much work ? '
'Not much downstairs. The rooms there

are always open and used, company or no
company.'

The school-room is upstairs, I think ? '

Yes, it is,' said the girl ; * and I wish it was
anywhere else. It is too near the best bedroom,
and causes a good deal of running up and
down stairs.'

Why, how's that ? '

Why, because our visitors are too fond of
going there.'

And does that make it bad for you ? '

Yes ; they carry up a heap of dust, and
I don't like it. Then there is Sir Edward's
room close by, and he is often up there ; and
I don't think it is right when there are ladies
about.'

But you don't think there's anything wrongs
going on, do you ? '

*Well, I don't know,' said the girl;' 'there
may be and there may not be, but that's no
business of mine.'

Nor of mine either,' said the man, ' though
it might be if it were a storey or two higher,
and I had the run of the house Hke Sir
Edward.'

Oh yes, I dare say it would,' said the girl
with a hearty laugh.

A slight accident happening to a part of the
harness caused the driver to pull up, and jump
down from his seat to put it right. Circum
took advantage of the incident to stand up, and,
while holding on to the rail at the back of her
seat, to ask the maid if she was not afraid to be
left there alone.

Afraid ! ' replied the girl ; * no, I should think
not, when I have the reins in my hand, and can
see Jim at the horse's head.'

The mishap was soon repaired, and they were
in motion again. Circum remained in his standing
posture, and took part in the conversation
that ensued, and so well did he employ the
half-an-hour that elapsed before he asked the
driver to put him down, that he had seen the
interior of the Hall fully exposed to view, and

come incidents that might lately have occurred
there registered in his mind.

If I want to return presently,' he said to the
driver, as he handed him a shilling, * could you
help me on my way ? '

Yes,' was the reply, ' if I can pick you upon
the road a little way from Downend.'

MUST manage to see Lyson alone to-days
thought Circum, as he walked
on towards the church which he saw
In the distance. ' I have no time to
waste upon introduction to his father or sisters."
Inquiring of a youth who was at work in a
ditch by the side of the road for the vicarage,
he learned from him that the gentleman he was
in quest of had just gone along towards the
church.

*You will greatly oblige me,' said Circum,
if you will run and tell him that a gentleman
wishes to speak to him — one who has had a
long walk and is tired. While you are gone I
have an odd sixpence somewhere in my pocket
which I will look out for you.'

All right, sir,' said the youth, * I'll soon catch
him.'

In a few minutes the two men were in confidential

conversation, walking across a field to
a secluded spot where they might talk for hours
without any fear of interruption from a third
party. They had, of course, much to tell each
other of their movements since they parted on
the pier at Boulogne.

Lyson could not restrain the expression of
his surprise at the appearance of his friend. ' I
cannot understand how you have managed to
keep up so well upon the little I was able to
give you. Your beard is well trimmed, your
clothes and boots good, and you look as fresh
and well as ever.'

You may well be surprised,' said Circum,
if you think I have had nothing but the few
pounds you gave me to depend on.'

You have not been engaging in any new
enterprise ? ' said Lyson suspiciously. ' You
know my affairs are to be finished before you
engage in any other ? '

*You can have no reason to doubt my
honesty ? '

I hope not,' said Lyson. ' But where did
your money come from ? '

By way of answer Circum related the incident
of his meeting with an old friend at Folkestone,
and from thence on to his journey to
London, with the discovery he made by the

way, summing up with his going to Woodfield,
and the progress he had made in his business
there, and his intended journey to Bath, ' and
now,' he added, ' since you are acquainted with
my adventures, perhaps you will give me some
account of yours ? '

They are few and soon told,' said Lyson.
I stopped at Boulogne until I was sick and
tired of the place, and so I finished up by sending
my second letter to my amiable father-in-law,
and set out on my voyage for this place,
where I find everything as stale as a fish that
has not seen the water for a week. Mr and
Mrs Cresswell with my wife, I dare say you
know, are at Woodcome Hall enjoying the
hospitality and wot not — well, I will not say of
whom, lest the word should cling to my throat
with a curse attached to it, and choke me.'

Enough, I understand,' said Circum ; * but
now about financial matters ? I hope they are
looking up with you, for the gold pieces I had
from my friend at Folkestone have nearly all
taken wings to themselves, and gone I don't
know where.'

I have turned up little more than a blank
since I have been here,' replied Lyson. * Words,
words, words in abundance, but little gold. Only
twenty pounds have I been able to draw from

my father, and they fell into my hands warm
with his tears. Poor old fellow ; if I did not
mean to make it all up to him one of these days,
I think I should begin to be a little ashamed of
myself

And now said Circum, * how about the
future business ? How stand you affected to
your wife ? Do you mean to go forward against
her in earnest for a divorce, or will you simply
hold on to the baronet and bleed him for playing
with her ? '

You treat the matter very lightly,' said
Lyson angrily.

And how otherwise would you have me
treat it,' retorted Circum. ' Do you want me
to say I pity you for having been so vilely
injured, and all that sort of thing? If you do
I can only say you are very much mistaken.
We have known each other too well for any
chance of sentimentality flourishing between us,
and in one shape or the other without hesitation
the word must be — forward.'

But suppose I should not choose to go
forward ? '

Then I should leave a fool behind me ; but
enough of this, I know what you mean perhaps
better than you do yourself. We must go forward,
and that I may not be backward in my

part you must hand me ten of the twenty
pounds you have in hand ? '
I cannot spare so much.'

And why not ? ' asked Circum. ' What
use can you have for money here but to forward
the scheme we are both engaged in ?
Are you not as much interested in what I have
to do as what you have to do yourself ? and
while you are living in free quarters with your
father, and I have to pay to the last farthing
for my daily wants. How can I hold on without
the sinews of war ? But if you are tired of
the game of getting square with the baronet,
that is another thing.'

But I am not tired,' said Lyson moodily.

I should have made a great mistake if you
had been,' rejoined Circum ; ' and I will never
believe, unless you tell me so yourself, that you
are willing to let your rival feel that he has
beaten you at every point ; that you are content,
in fact, to see him as close as may be ta
your wife, and — '

Here,' cried Lyson, ' take the money, and
save the arrow you are pointing at me for the
heart of the enemy. You know I hate the
man, and that I shall look upon him humbled
at my feet as the greatest blessing the gods
can bestow upon me.'

And the wife ? ' said Circum.

I have done with her, or she has done with
me, which, I suppose, is about the same thing,'
replied Lyson ; ' and whether she is brought
down with him, or through the influence of her
father's money holds her head shamelessly aloft,
is a matter of indifference to me.'

That is well,' said Circum ; ' now, I see you
plainly, and not through the cloud that that
paltry ten pounds was bringing between us.'

I never by any chance,' said Lyson, ' get an
extra few pounds, but some one takes a good
share of them from me.'

We have no time to talk of that now,'
said Circum. ' I must be back in Woodfield
to night, but before I go I should like to have
the object of my coming definitely settled
Once more I must ask you. Do you want to
get rid of your wife for ever, or will your attack
upon her be only to open the purse-strings of
the great man ? '

Why do you pest me with such a stupid
question ? You know I want money, and if I
can get that, and revenge at the same time, so
much the better ; but revenge alone, although
it might be very sweet, would be profitless.'

Then when we have made a little more sure
of our outworks, how shall we commence the

attack ? I am bound to worry the great man
considerably about his property, and if he will
not bleed freely, he will find my claimant is nota
man of straw. But, for the wife, I suppose
you will take her in hand ? '

What ! — see her and talk to her ? ' cried
Lyson.

Only through your solicitor

Oh, is that all ? ' said Lyson, considerably
relieved.

Now, then,' said Circum, ' I think we understand
each other, and I may set out on my
return to Woodfield, and from thence to Bath.'

You seem to have all the work at present.*

And yet you hesitated about having it done
for such a trifle ! But you need not be altogether
idle here. I dare say ther j are some
old gossips at Downend as well as at Wood-field,
who have seen certain things passing
between the lady and gentleman they did not
think quite right, and may have seen a great
deal more if you can assist their imaginations a
little.'

I will set my sisters to look after them ; they
are first rate at a bit of scandal.'

Have you the letters in your pocket you
spoke to me about ? '

Yes ; they are all right and safe.'

If you will let me take them with me to
Woodfield, I will insure you a thousand pounds
for them.'

I would rather keep them myself, thank
you.'

Well, as you please said Circum.
What use could you make of them at
Woodfield ? '

If I should get an introduction to the great
man, I might let him see they had not been
destroyed.'

I can do that myself.'

I only meant to forward your work a little.
I think you will do well to let me have them.'

Well, you shall have them then, but you
will return them to me very soon.'

Oh yes,' said Circum ; ' because you will
want them to show your solicitor.'

Mind, it is all above board,' said Lyson, ashe
hesitatingly placed them in the hands of his
confederate.

My life for their safe keeping,' said Circum.
The interview having been thus pleasantly
concluded, Circum felt armed afresh for the
business before him ; and having obtained
some slight refreshment at a roadside public,
was taken up in the little carriage and driven
rapidly back to Woodfield.

On his reaching his lodgings he found Nancy
in high spirits, and full of talk. Her husband
had reached home satisfied with his day's work,
and resolved to be pleased with everything set
before him, while the maid had been all that a
maid should be in the hands of a good, sensible,
and active mistress. The kettle was bubbling
on the hob, and a good, substantial tea set out
upon the table. The cat sat singing in her
sleep before the fire, while the dog, after his
long run with the cart having had his supper,
lay with open eyes by her side, as if greatly
interested in her song.

This is all nice, isn't it ? ' said Nancy.

Capital,' said Jasper, making an onslaught
on the thickly-buttered toast.

Circum followed the lead, and appeared to
have a good share in the general comfort and
happiness, of which, as the reader knows, he
was totally unworthy. He was in excellent
spirits. The ten additional pounds in his
pocket made him feel so strong and well. He
knew that with money, go where he might he
would be welcome, and knowing that, he gave
himself up to the enjoyment of the present,
without one disturbing thought of the future.

After going to his room before he closed his
-eyes in sleep he had the business of the morrow

all clearly mapped out upon his brain. He had
heard of the illness of the old steward, and also
learnt that he had been in the family for many
years — that he had travelled on the Continent
with the late Sir Henry ; and the idea dawned
upon his mind that he must be an old acquaintance,
with whom it would be to his interest
without loss of time to obtain an interview.

He was a light sleeper, and the slightest
noise at any time of the night was sufficient
to arouse him. To add to the chance of his
rest being broken, the thin lath and plaster
walls separating the bedrooms permitted the
sound of voices to be heard from one room in
the other. But it was no mere talking that
awoke him the next morning just before daybreak.
At first he was under the impression
that the bride and bridegroom had been amusing
themselves by a fight in their sleep, and
that on awakening, under the influence of their
excited feelings, they had continued the battle
in right earnest.

I didn't touch you,' he heard Nancy say, ' so
don't you tell me that I did. I must light the
candle, mustn't I, to get the maid a light ? I
couldn't trust her with the matches, could I ? '

Well,' cried J asper, ' if you must light the candle
you needn't go and let the grease run all over

my face. If you don't give me something to get
it off with, 111 wipe it all off on the sheet.'

You do, you do said Nancy, ' and make the
clean sheets all over grease, and see what will
happen.'

Why, you said you hadn't dropped any on
my face. How can I make the sheets greasy
if you didn't ? but we shall see.'

Then, as far as CIrcum could understand, a
struggle took place in the next room, Jasper
grasping the sheet to get the obnoxious grease
from his face, and Nancy tugging at it to get it
out of his hands. Satisfied at length that he had
freed himself from the pollution, Jasper gave
up the contention, saying, ' I shall have the
blanket then,' in which he rolled himself up ta
finish his night's rest, while Nancy was heard
shaking out the sheet to get it smooth again. ' I
expect,' she thought, as she did so, ' he's rubbed
some of it off, but if he has, and his beard comes
up patchy, I must get some more stuff and
touch up the bare places. What a pity I let
the cold candlestick touch his nose and wake
him up ! '

Shortly afterwards, on her first meeting with
her lodger, she whispered in his ear, —

I did it ! — I did it ! but I am afraid he rubbed
some of it off. Have you got any more ? '

Not a bit,' replied Circum.

Oh dear,' said Nancy, * what shall I do ?
for if it comes up patchy, his chin will look like
the back of a distempered dog ! But don't you
say a word about it.'

Of course not said Circum. ' But shall I
send for a five-guinea box ? '

That is such a lot of money,' said Nancy.
I think I'll wait and see how it comes up first.'

Breakfast over, Circum left the cottage on
his tour of inspection. As he went on towards
the Hall, he could not disguise from himself that
he felt a little anxious. He was fully aware
that he was engaged in two very delicate questions
with a confederate who was not at all
times to be trusted. He was satisfied that if
Lyson could come to terms with his wife, notwithstanding
what he might say to the contrary,
he would quickly let him know that he did not
want his assistance any longer ; and if he ever
succeeded in getting another ten pounds from
him, he would be an uncommonly lucky fellow.
It was not pleasant to have to deal with a man
of such a character. ' I must strike,' he thought,
while the iron is hot, and hold him firmly to
decisive action. I must see the old steward,
and if he should prove, as I suspect he will, an
old acquaintance of mine, we may join hands,

VOL. III. F

as we have done before, over a little quiet business,
and no one but ourselves be the wiser for
it. The stakes are large, and I must throw
boldly for them. If I gain I will play the rich
man again, but if I fail disappear as soon as
possible.'

Presenting himself at the servants' entrance
at the Hall, he asked for the girl who had ridden
with him to Downend yesterday. He had, by
describing her to Jasper and Nancy, managed
to get her name for his present purpose.

Ah ! good morning,' said the girl on seeing
him. * But how in the name of goodness did
you know my name ? '

A little bird told me. And now I want you
to do me a favour.'

It mustn't keep me long from my work, for
I am very busy.'

It will not take you five minutes,' said
Circum. ' I heard you say yesterday how much
your steward was suffering from the gout. Now,
as I happen to have a cure for the complaint, I
want you to get him to see me.'

But I have no business near him,' said the
girl ; ' and every one who has is afraid to goto
him, unless he rings.'

That is very unfortunate.*

Well, you were civil to me yesterday, and I

will be civil to you to-day. I will go and knock
at his door. But who shall I say wants to see
him?'

A physician from London.'

A physician ! Oh my,' said the girl, * if I
had known that before I should have been
afraid of you.'

Come in,' cried the old steward in answer to
the girl's knock at his door. After learning the
cause of her appearance, he said, —

Some scamp of a travelling doctor, I suppose
; but he will be a clever fellow if he gets me
to take any of his stuff. Tell him to come in.'

He is such a nice old gentleman,' said the
girl.

Go along, you young fool ! ' growled the old
man. As Circum entered the room, he continued,
— ' So you think you have a cure for the
gout, do you .-^ There, that will do ; stop where
you are. Don't come near me ; you are full of
physic ! I can smell you at this distance ! '

Circum looked searchingly at the old cripple
before him, who sat in his arm-chair bolstered
up on either side, and his right leg resting on
a footstool.

Well,' said Lea, ' what do you want "^ Don't
talk about curing the gout, because you know
you can't do it'

Perhaps,' replied Circum, ' you will change
your opinion if you will let me look at your
foot.'

Are you from a London hospital ? '

No, I am from Germany

Are there many hospitals there,' asked Lea,
where they cure the gout ? '

I think I may say '* Yes ; " and if you knew
under whom I studied you — '

I can guess,' cried Lea ; ' if he was not a
quack he was something worse, if he said he
could cure the gout.'

His death caused deep mourning to many a
sufferer.'

Oh, he's dead, is he ? '

Yes ; he died about twenty years ago, and I
have his recipe.'

But you haven't met with any one fool
enough to take the stuff you make up ? '

'Yes, I have — in Germany.'
What do I care about Germany ? Tell me
what you have done in England.'

You have been in Germany ? '

'Yes, and in many other countries too.'
I met you there ! '

Met me there ! Then who the devil are
you ?'

Listen, and I will tell you ! ' replied Circum,

moving suddenly across the room to him, and
whispering some words in his ear.

The old steward shrank back in his chair,
while a death-like hue overspread his face, and
a shiver as of an ague ran through his frame.

Don't be alarmed,' said Circum ; ' I am come
to you as a friend.'

I am a wretched, miserable man ! ' groaned
Lea ; ' I thought you were long ago in your
save ! What do you want ? '

To talk to you a little of old times.'
And then to rob me ! '

Do I look like a robber ? I tell you I come
as a friend, to take away the curse that has been
clinging to you for the last twenty years ! '

You have come to rob me,' groaned Lea ;
^ but there is help at hand, and I will call
for it

Hush, hush ! ' said Circum, ' you have
nothing to fear from me. It is from yourself
that mischief will come, if it comes at all.
Twenty years since you bribed me to keep
out of the way, when my presence would have
been vers inconvenient for the furtherance of
your scheme.'

Why bring up that old story again ?'

That you may have an opportunity of undoing
the wrong you then accomplished. Did

you forget, when your old master died, that he
had a grandson Having ? Not you. You knew
it well, but you were silent, for reasons best
known to yourself.'

He was not legitimate.'

I say he was, and I will prove it, unless you
can devise some other means of settling the
affair. The mother, I know, is dead, and that
also you know. The poor, injured girl died,
I believe, in your presence, I might almost say
in your arms.'

You are wrong,' said Lea, ' I did not see her
here alive. It was my son who met her in the
park.'

But you saw her afterwards. You, the only
person who knew who she was, and you
stood by with a closed mouth, and saw her
buried as a pauper, and her two children put
out to nurse as the children of a beggar.'

I helped to keep them from the union.'

And to get them educated suitable to their
natural position,' retorted Circum sarcastically.
But enough of this. I am here to prove that
the youth now at Bath is the rightful heir to
the family estate.'

And have you told the boy this ? '

No, you are the only one to whom I have
yet spoken on the subject. Now, tell me, shall

we be friends, and endeavour to settle the affair
to our mutual satisfaction.'

But, if the boy is the rightful heir, what can
we say or do ? '

Much, if we meet with opposition, even
to the extent of throwing the whole property
into the hands of the lawyers. By mutual concession
this may be obviated. The present
possessor and the heir may come to terms,
and reward us for not pushing matters to
extremities.'

You do not expect me to give you an answer
to your proposition on the instant .^ ' said Lea.
I can hardly understand what you have been
saying to me.'

Shall I say it over again ? '

No, no ; I must try and think of it when
you are gone ! I cannot now ; I am weary to
death with hearing you talk.'

I will give you until tomorrow, but no
longer,' said Circum. ' I am here for work, and
you shall help me, willingly or unwillingly,
which you choose.'

You cannot make me say that is true which
is not true.'

But I can make you speak the truth, and
that will be enough for me. I must see you
again tomorrow, and here is a box of ointment

which will serve for an excuse for me to call to
inquire how you are. I am not quite sure that
you will feel any effect from it, good or bad,
but such as it is it is at your service.'

Stop one moment,' said \ Lea. * The youth
is not of age ; who is to act for him ? '

That will be my case,' said Circum.

What right can you have to act for him ? '

That of being his nearest relative on his
mother's side.'

You his nearest relative ! '

Yes ; that is the fact you will have to deal
with if you go to the opposite side, and upon
that I bid you good-bye till tomorrow,' saying
which he left the room.

^^^

HE sisters of Lyson were greatly
exercised in their minds when they
attempted to discover what, under
the circumstances in which they
found themselves placed, it was their duty todo.
They could not fail to perceive that their
father's opinion was not in direct accord with
their own respecting their brother. But then
their father was old, timid in mind, and weak
in body. They could not expect him to do
much, but at least he might advise with Clay-pole,
and by that means help him to a correct
judgment of his present very disagreeable position.


But he seemed purposely to avoid speaking
to him before them on the subject. Why was
this .-^ they argued, when alone. If Edith's
conduct has been such that our brother cannot
look upon her any longer as his wife, measures

must be taken for her punishment, and to free
him from her vile bondage. What could they
do to help their brother.

Should they speak to their father, and urge
him to see Mr Cresswell on their brother's
behalf. The two gentlemen could talk over
the matter together. Even Mr Cresswell could
not support his daughter in wrong-doing. It
was most unfortunate that they were at Wood-field
at this time. Had they been at home, the
vicar might have managed to get to Elston
Court ; but how was it possible he could go to
see him now ? They expected, if they proposed
that he should go to hear him, say the
journey would be enough to kill him.

They could not ask him to go, but they might
entreat him to write, and entreat him they did
very earnestly, but without succeeding in their
object, and it soon became evident to them
that he had resolved not to take an active part
in the matter, which was now daily becoming
more engrossing to them.

You talk to me,' said the vicar, ' as if I was
young, and your brother a little thoughtless
child. Do you suppose he cannot think for
himself, and decide upon the course he ought
to take in an affair in which he is so deeply
concerned. What could I and twenty Mr

Cresswells do between him and his wife, if they
were not disposed to agree together? If he
judges his wife unworthy of his name, let him
say so, and take effectual means to free^himself
from all further annoyance on her account. If
he believes, as I do, that she is guiltless of any
great offence, then let him address a letter to
her or her father for the restoration of their
confidence.'

You are very hard upon poor Maypole,' said
Miss Lyson.

And I say papa is very cruel too,' added
Dorothy.

Well, well,' said the vicar, •' you seem to
have but a very sad opinion of your father, but
I trust I am not so unfeeling or so little aware
of my duty as you would make it appear. Goto
your brother, and tell him what I have said ;
perhaps you may find that he will judge more
correctly of me than you are disposed to do.'

But, papa — ' began ]\Iiss Lyson.

I cannot listen to you any longer now,' said
the vicar, * I have some writing to do which
I am hardly equal to, — you must please leave
me.'

The sisters retired greatly disappointed and
dissatisfied with the result of the interview.
Fortunately they did not meet with their brother

for two or three hours afterwards, or they might
have indulged in some not very filial words
towards their father. They did not, however,
look upon the battle as over. At the very first
opportunity they would renew the attack, and
they hoped with better success. It was all
very well for Maypole to go on from day to
day idling away the time fishing in the river
or prowling about the country instructing the
villagers in their various duties. But, though
he was willing thus to sacrifice himself for the
sake of peace and quiet, it was not for them to
see him suffer from injustice without raising
their voices against it.

Besides getting their father to interest himself
more actively in the matter, they proposed other
plans to accomplish their purpose of bringing
their doubts to a conclusion. One of which, ina
short time, became very prominent. It was
no other than that they should get a carriage
to take them over to Woodfield, and obtain a
private interview with Mrs Cresswell. They
would not venture on the gentleman again,
remembering as they did, with burning cheeks,
the rebuff they had met with on a former
occasion. Yes, they would see Mrs Cresswell,
and appeal to her as a Christian woman to assist
them in bringing the unfortunate estrangement

between their brother and his wife to a close,
one way or the other. If we can only get them
to meet, and Edith can prove, to her husband's
satisfaction, that she has done him no wrong,
all may yet be well, and we may be very friendly
together again. But, on the other hand, if she
cannot prove her innocence, he must proceed
against her and Sir Edward for damages. Anything
will be better for Maypole than his present
state of uncertainty.

Having matured their plan, the next morning,,
without a word of their purpose to either their
father or brother, they set out on their self-imposed
mission. ' I do believe,' said Miss
Lyson, as they approached the Hall, ' that
there is not a single soul at home. The old
place is as quiet and dull as it was in Sir
Henry's time.' They were, however, happily
mistaken. The lady they wished to see they
found alone in the drawing-room, but in a few
words they learnt she was not likely to be so
long. Charlotte and Miss Gordon, escorted by
Oliver, were expected in immediately, and Sir
Edward, with Mr Cress well and Edith very
short afterwards.

There is no time to be lost,' whispered
Dorothy.

Miss Lyson gave her a look, as much as to

say, you simpleton, I know It ; and then said,
in the softest tones her voice was capable of,
We come to tell you, dear Mrs Cress well, that
our dear brother Maypole is paying us a visit.'

Indeed!' said Mrs Cresswell.

And we are all so sorry you are from home,*
she continued ; * and I know he is too ; but
why he does not come over here to see you I
cannot tell

He is quite well, I trust?' said Mrs Cresswell
coldly.

Oh yes, quite well ; but oh, so changed from
his long years of suffering that you would
scarcely know him again. I do wish you could
see him ; I know sou would pity him.'

I have pitied him many times.*

That is very kind of you.'

I have pitied him,' she continued, ' when I
have known that he was turning all the blessings
by which he was surrounded into curses,
and rendering his friends, as far as he could,
miserable.'

Oh ! my dear Mrs Cresswell, you must not
believe the envious and malicious things that
have been said about him. I assure you they
are not true. I know he has in some way
offended Mr Cresswell, and that is the reason
why he has not been over to see you, I suppose.*

I think I can give you a better reason
rejoined Mrs Cresswell ; ' years since, when
his presence in England would have covered
his friends with disgrace, Mr Cresswell allowed
him a pension, to be continued as long as he
remained out of England. If he is, as you say,
at Downend now, he has forfeited his claim
to it.'

Oh ! Mrs Cresswell, are you not very cruel ?
Was it not his duty to come over and see his
father before he died ? '

Had he performed his duty, he would have
come while his father was well, and have helped
to keep him so.'

But if he had promised not to come ? '

I mean long before he was called upon to
make that promise.'

If I could induce you to ask him to come
over and see you, I should be so very glad ; I
am sure it would lead you to have a better
opinion of him than you have now.'

I cannot ask him to come here.'

Then will you see him at Downend ? '

Certainly not alone. I will mention your
request to Mr Cresswell, and if he will go home
for the purpose, I will accompany him.'

'And Edith?'

That I cannot answer for,' replied Mrs

Cresswell, in a manner which made it clear
that she considered the conversation should
close there.

Oh ! do try, please, and persuade,' began
Dorothy, when her speech was cut short by
the entrance of Charlotte, Miss Gordon, and
Oliver.

Oh, Charlotte ! ' cried, Miss Lyson, ' I am
so glad to see you looking so well, and you,.
Miss Gordon, and you also, Oliver. Why, I
declare you are all looking the picture of health
and happiness.'

We have had enough to make us look very
sad this morning,' said Charlotte.

Visiting the poor has a very depressing
effect,' said Miss Lyson. ' Seeing their unthrifty
habits makes one very sad.'

We have little reason to complain of our
poor,' said Charlotte.

No ; they are all very good,' observed
Oliver.

A sad accident has happened,' said Charlotte,.
near the village ; a bridge crossing the stream
has broken down under a heavy laden cart,
and the driver, and two children who were
passing at the time, have been very seriously
injured.'

Were you there '^. ' asked Dorothy of Oliver,

No ; thank goodness,' replied Oliver. ' I
was not.'

You would make a poor soldier, I think,'
said Dorothy.

There would be no soldiers if every one
were of my mind,' replied Oliver.

The company was now increased by the
return of the walking party, and the two sisters
found themselves very awkwardly situated in
the midst of what they could but consider a
hostile group, if not undisguised enemies. But
they were not easily abashed, and therefore, as
soon as the morning greeting was over with
the new comers, they returned to the business
that had brought them there.

I have been telling Mrs Cresswell,' said Miss
Lyson, ' that we have a visitor at Downend,
and that we are all so sorry you are from home.'

Edith, foreseeing what was coming, gave a
beseeching look to her father and left the room.

What difference our being at home or not
at home would make to your visitor I could not
readily imagine,' observed Mr Cresswell, ' had
I not heard who your visitor is.'

You have heard of Maypole's arrival, then ? '

Yes,' replied Mr Cresswell ; ' and if you
were a gentleman I should tell you, that was
all I cared to hear about it. But as it is, I

VOL. III. G

will leave you to imagine my feelings on the
subject when I tell you that his coming has
brought no pleasure with it to this house — I
beg your pardon, I mean my house.'

Perhaps,' said Miss Lyson bitterly, ' it would
be well to put the two houses as one.'

*As you please,' retorted Mr Cresswell ; 'I
will answer for myself, that I trust our houses
may never be less pleasantly connected than
they are at present.'

Am I then to understand,' said Miss Lyson,
that it is your wish my brother should know
you have no desire to see him ? '

Yes, or to hear from him either,' said Mr
Cresswell.

Then he must appeal to the law,' put in
Dorothy.

As he or you please,' rejoined Mr Cresswell.
'Very well,' said Miss Lyson. 'We put

ourselves to the trouble and expense of coming
over to see Mrs Cresswell, in the hope that
through her you might be brought to reason,
but since we have failed in that we must return
home and consult with our friends on what we
have yet in our power to do. We wish you
good morning.'

Good morning,' said Mr Cresswell, and
turned away.

Poor souls ! ' said Sir Edward as they left
the room ; ' you must permit me to pity them
that they have not a more worthy object to
fight so bravely for.'

They make me quite angry,' said Mr Cress-well,
' by the resolute manner in which they
close their eyes against the truth.'

Hark ! there is the luncheon-bell,' said
Oliver, * and I am very glad to hear it, for my
walk has made me hungry.'

You did not eat any of your cakes,' said
Miss Gordon.

No,' replied Oliver ; ' but I was tempted to
eat one.'

'And I know which one,' cried Grace, who
had just made her appearance from her lessons.

Do you ? ' said Oliver ; ' then just tell me if
you can.'

It was the one I saw Miss Gordon put in
your basket after breakfast this morning. I
saw you looking quite hungry at it then, — yes,
even before it had left her hand.'

Now, Grace,' said Oliver, ' if you make me
such a hungry creature you will make every one
afraid of me.'

For fear you should prove a cannibal and
eat them,' said Grace.

Good news ! ' exclaimed Sir Edward, after

having very eagerly opened a telegram that a
servant presented to him as they were on their
way to the dining-room. ' Jesse has reached
London, and will soon be on his way to our
station. Order the carriage to be at the door
directly,' he said to the servant. * Some of us
must go to meet him.'

I will go, if you please,' said Oliver.

If my friends could spare me,' said Sir
Edward, * I think I should like to go myself
also.'

Oh, do let me go ! ' cried Grace ; * and Edith,
too, — I see her just coming downstairs, and
looking as if a ride would do her good.'

No,' said Edith ; ' you must please excuse
me. I am tired with my morning's walk.'

Then I shall be the only lady ! ' exclaimed
Grace.

'But who said you might go?' asked Sir
Edward.

You looked as if you meant me to go,' said
Grace ; * and now I am sure you did. How
glad I shall be to see Jesse after his long
absence, and I know he will to see me.'

It was not only to greet Jesse at the station
that had determined Sir Edward to take his
place in the carriage with Oliver and Grace.
He saw how greatly Mr Cresswell had been

disturbed by their late visitors, and he knew
if he remained in the house with them the
subject would again come before him, which
at the present time he was most anxious it
should not do.

This did not arise from a want of sympathy,
but rather from an excess of it. He felt so
strongly how gross and cruel the conduct of
Lyson had been that he could not think of him
without an angry flush crossing his brain that
was allied to a feeling little short of murderous ;
and to speak of him while under such influence
he felt would be most undesirable, and besides
that, he was willing that his guests should be
left to themselves for a while to talk over the
unpleasant matter, and form their opinion
upon it.

A stranger passing by the dining-room window
while the luncheon was in progress would have
had little idea that aching hearts filled the
breasts of the greater part of the company, so
joyous and happy did they all appear, — when
in truth their chief business was an endeavour
each one to disguise his real feelings from his
neighbour. Grace was the only one, it is to be
feared, who was quite free from dissimulation.
Charlotte and Miss Gordon looked anxiously at
their elders to observe the effect the late unpleasant

scene had had upon them, and Oliver,
through his natural timidity, shrank within
himself when he thought of the angry looks of
the sisters as they left the room, and yet they
all laughed and talked as if their hearts were
quite at ease.

Undisguised was the emotion with which
Jesse and his father greeted each other at the
station, and earnest and hearty the welcome of
Oliver and Grace. Jesse's absence had continued
many days longer than was expected,
and during the latter portion of ^'t had occasioned
his father much anxiety.

Sir Edward had consented to his son going
to Germany from the very opposite motive to
that which had taken such a strong hold upon
the mind of Jesse. He had reasoned with
himself, as we have seen, on the supposition
that the love of the young people was but of a
transitory nature, and that if they were kept
apart for a time, moving about amongst
strangers in the midst of strange scenes, with
the changing incidents that would be constantly
occurring, this childish dream of love
would pass away, and leave not the trace of a
sigh or tear behind.

Nor did he even, when Jesse's silence caused
him to be anxious, in the least change his

opinion ; on the contrary, he began to fear
that his antidote was doing more than he
had intended it should do. That the scenes
through which his son was passing had supped
him with new friends as fond of foreign
travel as himself, the tendency of which would
be to revive his early desire to visit the little
known regions of Central Africa.

On one occasion, when Jesse was obliged to
apply for further means to prosecute his inquiries,
his father, acting on the idea that was
then prominent in his mind, had but sparingly
supplied his necessities, that he might in some
measure control the movements of his body, if
he could not those of his mind ; but before the
carriage had cleared a mile of the road between
the station and Woodfield, he discovered his
mistake.

After reaching the Hall, and receiving the
welcome that there awaited him, Jesse observed
that as he had spent more money than he
calculated upon doing, and had also left a few
unsettled claims behind him, he thought,
while the matter was fresh in his mind, he
should be glad if his father could give him
a few minutes to go over the particulars with
him.

We will not trouble about them now,' said

Sir Edward. ' I dare say you have not made
me quite a bankrupt.'

There are two or three notes I promised to
send off directly on reaching home,' said Jesse.

Sir Edward could offer no objection to this,
though he retired somewhat unwillingly to the
library. As soon as the bills, of which Jesse
had spoken, had been satisfactorily dealt with.
Sir Edward proposed that they should put the
other papers away and return to their friends.

Before we do so,' began Jesse in a tremulous
voice, ' I think I ought to tell you more fully
than I have yet done, the chief object I had
in view when I obtained your sanction for
setting out on my late journey. I told you
it was — if I could verify Lea's statement —
to try and discover if he had passed over any
incident as unworthy of notice which might
give me the clue he had in vain sought for.'

Sir Edward, doubtful of the answer he could
make, contented himself with bending his head
in approval, when Jesse continued, —

On reaching the point from whence his
statement took its departure, I found he had
left no trace behind him, and I was, after
much trouble and loss of time, led to believe
that his statement had no foundation in truth.'

Do you mean,' asked Sir Edward, * to say

that the account Lea brought back to us was
false?'

*I can only say,' replied Jesse, 'that if he
really passed over the ground he said he did,
he left no trace behind him ; and that I have
since proved that the point he said he started
from was not likely to lead him to any discovery
worth making.'

'We will have his answer to this,' said Sir
Edward.

The ice was now fairly broken, and Jesse's
nervousness gradually disappeared as he went
on with his narrative. When he spoke of what
he had heard at Brighton, his father stopped
him with the inquiry of, —

Why did you not tell me of that at the
time ? '

Could I have met with the gentlemen again,'
said Jesse, ' I would have gladly done so ; but
as it was, I thought the information would
amount to nothing unless I could substantiate
it. Then it was that an overmastering desire
took possession of my soul that I should goto
Germany and find out the secret myself;
and I have done it ! ' he added triumphantly.
And now I know that the statement I heard
at Brighton was substantially correct.' He then
ran hastily over the incidents of his travel.

You have brought me a surprising account
of facts, of which, up to this morning, I had
no knowledge,' said Sir Edward. ' I will not
attempt to disguise from you that I think they
are most important, and must not be passed
over in silence. Whether the marriage you
speak of was legal or not, it appears to meat
the first glance, that it cannot very much
alter the real state of the case. If the poor
girl thought the marriage was legal and it was
not, we can only think of her with pity.' Then,
after a slight pause, he added, — ' It is a question
upon which an opinion must not be hastily
formed. I understand the moral obligation
that is cast upon me, but whether it should
be dealt with publicly or privately as a family
matter, I am not prepared to say. I will
speak to Mr Cresswell, and with him question
Lea to see what more can be learnt from him.'

I shall be sorry,' observed Jesse, ' if I have
brought trouble upon our house, but I was
urged forward by an impulse I could not resist.'

Trouble is not disgrace,' said Sir Edward,
though we need be careful that it does not
lead to it by any misapprehension of our duty.'

'And, father,' said Jesse falteringly, 'may I
ask you one question, — I see by your smile
that I may. Will you tell me if you have

heard from Miss Montag since you took her
to London ? '

Not from her, but of her.'

And is she well ? '

Quite well, I believe.'

May I see her,' gasped Jesse.

My dear boy,' replied his father, ' I know
not what to say. The changed position, with
respect to her, in which I so suddenly find
myself, deprives me almost of thought. Before
I take one step in advance of what I have
done, I must speak to Mr Cress well. Go
you to your room and have some refreshment
brought to you there, while I consult with
our mutual friend. Can you trust to our
guidance ? '

1 will endeavour to do so.'

Then all may yet be well,' said Sir Edward.

HE rage which ran riot in the minds
and words of the sisters on leaving
Woodfield had not exhausted itself
on their reaching the vicarage at
Downend. Disappointed, hungry, and tired
they rushed into their father's room and inquired
with breathless haste for their brother.

I do not know where he is,' said the vicar.
Where have you been ? '

To Woodfield ! ' they both exclaimed, as
with one impulse.

And for what purpose ? '
How can you ask such a question } ' cried
Miss Lyson ; ' for what purpose could we go
there but to serve Maypole. You would not
make an attempt to go, and he, poor fellow,
could not.'

I am afraid you have done mischief by
going.'

Mischief was already done when we got
there ! ' exclaimed the enraged lady ; •' and if
Maypole does not set to work to expose their
conduct when we tell him of their behaviour
to us, I shall be very much surprised. They
are the most ungenial people in the world.
I mean the elder ones — we did not expect
even civility from the others. They knew we
had had a long ride, and our horse must require
rest ; but instead of ordering the man to
take him to the stable, and inviting us to stop
to luncheon, when we could, in a friendly way,
talk over the business that had taken us there,
we were received so rudely, that we could not
stop in the house ; and the poor horse was
obliged to bring us a long way towards home
before we could even get a drop of water
for him.'

Then I should think you are sorry you
went.'

Sorry! no, we cannot be sorry. It is better
to know the truth, however unpleasant it maybe,
than to go on in a fool's paradise, hoping
people are not so wicked as they are. But
it is of no use talking to you. You have not
the spirit of a worm to turn again when you
are trodden upon. We will get some luncheon,
and then find Maypole. He must not suffer

things to go as they are going on for one
moment longer, or it will be said he connives
at their wickedness, or that he is afraid of them.'

You do not ask me for my opinion,' said
the vicar ; ' but I will once more, unasked,
give it you. I would advise you, then, not
to trouble yourselves about your brother's
business, but rather to leave it as it is to
him. He can choose his own time to set
himself right with his wife and her friends.
I have better hope of him now. He has
promised me this morning he will not leave
us again, but that he will prepare himself for
holy orders, and act as my curate.'

That will be very nice,' said Dorothy ; ' but
I don't see how he can stop here without having
first exposed his faithless wife to the scorn
and contempt of the world.'

His first step must be to justify himself,'
said Miss Lyson, 'and we shall strongly advise
him to do it.'

Very well,' murmured the vicar ; ' you will
do as you please, but, remember, you will act
without my sanction.'

I am sorry to say you are becoming too
timid for that to have much weight with us.'
And with that they left the room.

Fortified with their luncheon, the sisters

sallied out in search of their brother. They
judged where they would be likely to find him,
as they had been told he was seen going
towards the river, with his fishing - rod and
basket.

For some time past he had reason to fear
that his affairs were not progressing in the
most satisfactory manner. Since he had parted
with his ten pounds to Circum, he felt that his
confederate was acting in a more independent
manner than before. He had received a short
note from him to say he must leave Woodfield
for a fe^v days and go back to London. He
gave no reason for going, but said he would
write from London if anything particular occurred
while he was there.

The idea of the mere possibility of his being
made a tool of by Circum was a sore blow to
the pride of Lyson, and which he would immediately
have dealt with had an opportunity
served.

What could induce the fellow to go away ? '
he would mutter to himself, ' and leave me in
this dead-and-alive place. If he does play me
false after all his professions to make common
cause with me against my enemy, it shall go
hard with him if he ever comes within my
reach again.'

He was now in a position totally foreign to
his inclination. He had ere now found himself
companionless in the midst of a crowd, but
here he felt he was so without the vagaries of a
crowd to amuse him. For his father's serious
conversation he had no taste, while his sisters,
with their pity, advice, and caution, annoyed
and worried him. In an old lumber room he
found his store of fishing tackle, which he had
put carefully away many a long year since.
This, with a little repairing and cautious use,
he made do him good service on the bank
of the river. A very mild winter had just
passed away, and although it was early spring,
the air was soft and genial ; so that, with an
extra coat and a little freedom of movement
from place to place, Lyson had managed to
get through the time without much loud complaining.


The sisters supposing his inaction respecting
his wife arose from his excess of good-nature
and unwillingness to act offensively, had
become too impatient for further trifling, and
were now on their way to the river to compel
him to act in a matter which they judged
so nearly concerned his happiness and good
name. But, like many other ill-judging people,
who from seeing things from an unfavourable

point of view only get a partial sight of the
object, conclude they see It In all Its bearings,
and rush headlong into strife and turmoil while
under the impression they are striving to put
everything In order. In such an unsatisfactory
position had the sisters unconsciously
placed themselves. They did not even know
of the existence of such a person as Circum,
much less how his actions were Influencing
those of their brother, and hence their mistake
in attempting to force him to act according to
their will, when he was not at liberty to follow
even that of his own.

They found the object of their search In his
favourite spot on the river bank. It was not a
late choice that took him there, but an old one
of his school-days. Though great changes had
taken place throughout the country, that little
sheltered corner in a bend of the river remained
the same. It is possible that the stream after
heavy storms, when it swept by with great
force, had carried with it some of the pebbly
bottom, but If so, it was a work hidden
from sight. It was known to be of considerable
depth, and whether its bottom had
been raised or carried away a foot or two
could not be judged of from the surface of
the water.

VOL. III. H

Oh, Maypole ! ' said Miss Lyson ; ' in your
old place and at your old work again.'

Yes,' said Lyson ; ' but I might as well
have been idle at home, for any profit my work
has brought me here. I cannot understand
where all the fish are gone to.'

Have you nearly finished for the day V

With an empty basket to carry home ! No ;
I must exercise my patience for an hour or
two longer.'

We came to have a little quiet talk with
you.'

'Well, it is quiet enough here.'

But it would be much better if you would
take a nice walk with us.'

I can listen to you here and attend to my
work at the same time.'

But we want your undivided attention.'

You may have my ears, but I must have
my eyes and my hands for my work.'

We want you to be very serious.'

Then you have caught me at the right time, as
I am always serious when the fish will not bite.'

We have been to Woodfield to-day.'
Indeed!'

'Yes,' joined in Dorothy; 'and we have a
great deal to tell you about the reception we
met with there.'

Were you invited ? '

No, we were not invited ; but — '

I don't want to hear any more about it.'

Oh, brother ! ' cried both in chorus.

'Oh, sister!' mockingly said Lyson. 'Did
I not tell you the other day that I knew perfectly
well what I was doing, and that anything
you could say or do, besides bringing to me all
the gossip of the village, I would not thank
you for unless you had previously consulted
me ?'

But we have told you so much, and you
have done so little.'

You do not know what I have done, and I
cannot tell you at present. If you could only
have as much patience with me as I am obliged
to have with the fish I should be glad.'

We have spent our time and money for you,'
said Dorothy.

In your own way, but that is not the way to
oblige me. I repeat what I have said before :
I want facts, and if you can collect some, I will
thank you for every one separately. Ah, there
is a bite at last ! '

The sisters turned away with their handkerchiefs
to their eyes. After all they had
done, and were prepared to do, was this to be
their reward from father and brother alike ?

Was there nothing they could do to open their
eyes to the necessity of action ?

The bite having led to nothing but the readjustment
of the bait, Lyson, thinking he had
quieted his companions, said carelessly, —

I am sorry if I have offended you, but in
this matter you must allow me to act for
myself.'

As the words, I am sorry, fell upon the ears
of the sisters, their eyes brightened, and the
sense of ingratitude from which, a moment
before, they felt they were suffering, melted
away like the morning mist before the rising
sun.

We do not wish to interfere with your
private affairs,' said Miss Lyson; 'we only
wish to serve you, and — '

Have you at last ! ' cried Lyson, as he
landed a two-pound fish on the bank by his
side.

We must now turn to Circum. Disagreeable
and disreputable as he is, we must follow him
to London, and learn, if we can, the object he
had in view in undertaking the journey. In
his interview with Lea he had, in his confidence
in the success of his scheme, been very
bold in asserting the legitimacy of the young
man at Bath. When he left Lea, his intention

was at once to set out for Bath ; but
before he reached his lodgings, a few questions
arose In his mind as to whether he was not
traveling a Httle too fast. In short, whether
he had sufficient come-table evidence to
establish his relationship to the orphans. Having
warned Nancy of his Intended absence,
he hurried to the station and took a ticket,
not for Bath but for London.

Yes,' he thought, ' I must communicate with
a friend or two across the water, who will
manufacture for me the proof I want of my
relationship to the dead woman. It will delay
the attack for a few days, and perhaps make
Lyson a trifle impatient ; but there is no help
for it ; he cannot do without me, and must
perforce wait my time.'

I must go upon sure lines, and be able
to show the great man that my claim, on the
part of the boy, is not an imaginary one, and
that If he will not buy us off, he must expect
to fight a losing game. I may pass a few
days at Islington very pleasantly ; thanks to
my good fortune In meeting with the friend
who took me there. I must have the girl
convinced of the fact that there can be no
doubt of my relationship to her. When one
is engaged in an enterprise that needs a lie or

two for its support, an extra one cannot make
much difference.

I can have no difficulty with her when she
is made to understand how far her own fortune
and that of her brother's depends on her Hastening
to me and sipping into the groove I will
have prepared for her to move in. I hope I
shall be able to manage with my friends in
France without crossing the Channel ; but if I
cannot, I must be at the trouble and expense
of going over.'

Arrived at Islington, he did not miss the
welcome he expected. He called to see Mrs
Wilkins, to let her and her charge know of his
return to London for a few days. On reaching
his lodgings, his first care was to sit down
and write to two friends in France, to recall
to their recollection events that had never
happened, that they might be able to make
affidavits and swear to the facts stated in
them as many times as should be found necessary.


Let them answer me like sensible men,' he
muttered, as he folded up his letters, ' and the
fame is mine.'

As he hinted to Mrs Wilkins that he had
been round by Woodfield during his absence,
the old lady, who knew the place well and

many of the villagers, was very anxious that
he should take tea with her, that she might
have a Httle gossip with him about what he
had seen and heard there. Nor was Miss
Montag a whit less ready to receive him,
though she kept her reason for being so asa
well-guarded secret. The old lady was for
general information ; but her charge was for
the particular.

At the tea-table Circum made himself specially
agreeable, and greatly amused his hostess
with an account of the doings of some of her
old friends at Woodfield. Nancy's courtship
and marriage did him good service, as also
did his interview with the schoolmaster and
his pupil, which brought the past vividly before
the eyes of Miss Montag. Incidentally he
mentioned that he had heard that a Mr and
Mrs Cress well, with a married daughter, were
on a visit at the Hall.

Ah,' said Mrs Wilkins, ' that marriage of
Miss Cresswell was a sad mistake. The young
people were never suited to each other, and I
don't believe the marriage would have ever
taken place if it had not been for the gentleman's
sisters.'

I heard his name there,' said Circum ; ' I
think it was Lyson.'

Yes, and a fine-looking man he was ; but
I heard he made a bad husband, and his wife
went home to her father.'

They seem to hive on very friendly terms
with Sir Edward Harewood.'

Yes, and well they may. Mr Cress well is
Sir Edward s uncle on the mother's side.

Oh, then,' said Circum, ' Sir Edward and
the daughter are first cousins ; so there is
nothing strange in their attachment for each
other.'

Strange ! ' said Mrs Wilkins. ' No, I should
think not. And where is the husband now 1 '

Oh, I don't know ! Somewhere abroad, I
believe.'

I heard some rather wild stories about the
cousins.'

I don't believe a word you heard against
them ; but perhaps it would be as well if they
were not so much together.'

I should think it would,' said Circum ; ' but
that, of course, is their business. I suppose
you know all about the poor fellow that was
shot,' he added, to Miss Montag.

I heard of it she replied evasively.

You must have been there at the time,
if the account I heard of the accident was
true.'

I was there,' she replied ; ' but it was all
so sad, that I don't like to think about it'

I had a long talk with one of the under
keepers. I think his name was Dixon, the
man who was at one time supposed to have
shot the other.'

Oh yes,' said Miss Montag; * but that was
all a mistake.'

She was becoming very uneasy under the
searching eyes of Circum, and would have
changed the subject had she been able, when
he followed up his attack by saying, from
what he had heard, it did not appear like an
accident.

Why, what else could it be ? ' asked Mrs
Wilkins.

Men sometimes purposely shoot themselves,'
replied Circum, looking sharply at
Miss Montag, who shrank back from his gaze.
He was satisfied he had now found the cause
of her occasional absent manner, and the little
inclination she had shown to talk of her own
affairs. There had been a love affair between
her and the under keeper, who had shot himself
in a fit of despair.

Having arrived at that conclusion, he was
far too practised a hand to attempt to push
his discovery any further at present. It might

prove to be an incident perfectly useless to
him, or he might be able, in some unforeseen
way, to turn it to good account in the carrying
out of his scheme, in which he was likely to
find her very useful. That he must have her
assistance he saw plainly enough, and the more
he knew of the inward working of her mind,
so much the easier would he find his task in
dealing with her and in bringing her will in
subjection to his.

The evening passed very pleasantly away,
and, as he thought, profitably to himself. With
Miss Montag the case was very different. The
fond name her ears had been so eager to erect,
fell upon them incidentally but two or three
times during the evening. Circum's attention
when at Woodfield did not appear to have been
called in any special manner to Jesse. This
might have arisen from his not at that time
being at home, as also that he was only the
second son, and therefore not of much consequence.


Before laying his head on his pillow that
night, he had resolved that, if he did not hear
from his friends on the other side of the water
in the course of two days, he would send
them a telegram to ask them to meet him at
Boulogne on the following day. And now

having settled on that, he thought I will devote
the intervening space to pleasure or business as
opportunity may serve.

Meantime, Miss Montag had retired to
her own room nursing her disappointment in
silence. As day had followed day, though Mrs
Wilkins was very kind to her, she could not
disguise from herself that she was little better
than a prisoner in the house. She had hesitated
to open her heart fully to her well-tried friend
Mrs Smith, who had ever treated her like a
daughter or sister ; but now, instead of opening
it ever so slightly, it was the more firmly closed
to all around her, and it was very* pleasant for
her to feel, amidst her distracting thoughts, that
her great secret was safe in her own bosom.
For whatever Sir Edward might show a disposition
to do, she would wait patiently and
complain to no one but to him and Jesse.

But shortly the mental struggle that was
going on in the mind of the poor girl began to
tell upon her health, and to make her good-natured
keeper grow concerned about her. She
could not imagine why she should grow pale
and thin. Was not her living of the right kind,
if it was not, it should be chant-ed directly.

It is all ver)- good,' was the only reply she
could get.

Entranced with a Dream,

I think we are in the house too much,' said
Mrs Wilkins, ' so for the future we will go out
for an hour or two every day. I can't bear to
see you growing so unfavourable like ; you don't
eat enough. I think you must be in love, and
if you don't eat more, I shall get the doctor to
you.'

HE two days having passed, and no
letter arriving from over the water
for Circum, he carried out his plan
by sending off his telegram, and in
the course of the afternoon received back the
following: — 'Just returned from up country
journey. Come over to us ; we want to see
you here.'

All a trick, no doubt,' he murmured, ' but no
matter. I must go or they will rate their
services so highly that, however successful we
may be, I shall have little left for myself.' His
answer therefore was immediately despatched.
You may expect to see me tomorrow by the
first packet.' Then having informed his landlady
of his intended absence, and bidden Mrs
Wilkins and Miss Montag good-bye, he went
by the night train to Folkestone.

During the last two days, besides making a

lucky stroke or two at billiards and card-tables,
he had not been idle in the business of preparing
Miss Montag for the part he meant her
to play in the coming struggle.

He had gone so far as to speak privately to
her of her and her brother's prospects in the
future ; of what position in life they looked forward
to occupy, and how much or how little
they had to expect from the generosity of Sir
Edward Harewood. He did not do this indirect
terms as is here set forth, but, serpent-like,
he coiled his questions around her, and
obtained her answers almost without her knowledge.
He learnt that she knew notainor of Sir
Edward's purpose concerning her future ; but
as he had hitherto been very kind to her, she
had no reason to think that he would be ever
different.

He had satisfied himself that she had been
sent to London on account of the misadventure
of the under keeper for a little change. Had
he dreamed of her love for Jesse, he would soon
have entered on another mode of proceeding,
but as he did not, he went on under his false
impression, resolved for the present not to tell
her of the discovery he had made of her parentage.
' She is a sensible girl,' he thought ; ' but
the heads of sensible girls are apt to grow giddy

when the sun shines too strongly upon them.'
To be called upon suddenly to rise up from
a dependent position to one of independence, is
enough to make the brain of any one tremble
in the balance. So we will go carefully forward
without risking anything of the kind.' Just ashe
was leaving the house before setting out tor
Folkestone, he whispered to her, — ' When I
return, you may hear of something that will
greatly surprise you, and probably change the
whole course of your future life.'

Miss Montag heard him imperfectly and
could not understand him, and ere she could,
had she been inclined, beg him to repeat what
he had said, he was gone, and his words must
remain without meaning to her until his return,
which did not take place before Jesse had
reappeared again on the scene at Wood-field


Sir Edward lost no time in fulfilling the
promise he made to Jesse of taking Mr Cresswell
into his confidence respecting the position in
which the startling narrative had placed him.
Great was the surprise of that gentleman as he
listened to the unexpected and strange report
brought from Germany, and serious and earnest
were the observations he made upon it when
it was finished.

Then you advise me,' said Sir Edward, after
they had been in consultation for some time, ' to
take no action in the matter further than what
I may accomplish by private inquiry to inform
myself of the truth of the narrative you have
just heard ? '

Quite so,' replied Mr Cresswell. ' I would
not even have you name it to my wife or
daughter while there is the slightest uncertainty
respecting any portion of it. It is very clear,
from what you tell me of Jesse, that he is fully
impressed with the reality of his statement in
everything excepting the kind of marriage that
took place — in short, whether it was or was not
legal. I am inclined to think it was a sham
affair ; but if the poor girl was deceived, it
would be wrong to speak of her as an abandoned
woman, whose children could have no
possible claim upon you. Do you agree with
me in that ? '

Most certainly,' replied Sir Edward.

Then I think your course is very clear.
With Jesse's statement in your hand, it will not
be difficult privately to trace its action from
point to point, until in the end you can safely
satisfy yourself that it is in part or wholly true,
or cast it aside as a fiction which circumstances
have imposed upon him.'

But before we settle on the best means of
prosecuting our inquiry, I must come to terms
with Jesse,' said Sir Edward, ' respecting his
desire to communicate with Miss Montag. He
has, I believe, faithfully kept his promise of not
attempting to see or write to her without my permission,
and I do not think I should be doing
right by putting his obedience to a more severe
trial ; but how to manage with him without
doing so I am far from seeing.'

The entanglement of the young people is, as
you say, most unfortunate,' observed Mr Cress-well,
' but it is evident that your arrangement
for their final separation has entirely failed, at
least as far as Jesse is concerned, and, to my
mind, his behaviour entitles him to your kindest
consideration.'

Would you advise me to let her visit to
London end in her being recalled to her old
place in Smith's house ?'

I could hardly advise that,' replied Mr
Cresswell. ' If she were so to return, it would
doubtless appear to them that you tacitly agreed
to their meeting, and that would amount to
your approval of any connection they might
desire to form with each other, and I presume
you are not quite prepared for that.'

No, most decidedly not,' replied Sir Edward.

VOL. III. I

The whole question is too serious to be thus
dealt with. Jesse has, doubtless, been true to
any pledge he has given her, and we can have
no reason to think she has acted otherwise towards
him ; but they are both very young, and
if our inquiry should lead us to the conviction
that I have been occupying a position which of
right belonged to another, and that other her
own brother, one can hardly imagine how she
will be disposed to act when the fact comes to
her knowledge. Can we be sure that her little
head will not be turned with her change of
circumstances and the inevitable flattery to
which she will from interested persons be
exposed ? '

It is a difficult thing to be prepared at all
points for future contingencies,' said Mr Cress-well
; ' but could you not make a sort of compromise
with Jesse, and leave the question
nearly in its present state for a while ? '

I do not see on what ground,' said Sir
Edward despondingly.

Suppose, while holding him to his promise
of not seeing Miss Montag, you were to withdraw
your request respecting the letter writing ? '

I am afraid that would render their separation
impossible.'

I do not agree with you,' rejoined Mr Cress-well.

Jesse is not devoid of judgment, and I
believe he is not disposed to be unreasonable.'

I am afraid you are a little too partial to Jesse.'

My opinion of him is based on his past conduct.
He appears to me to have acted openly
and honestly in following out his own plan,
while he has kept the promise he made to you.'

He is very fortunate in having you as an
advocate, and I cannot argue against the course
you suggest.'

'You will see Jesse immediately?' said Mr
Cresswell.

Yes,' was the reply.

Very shortly afterwards Jesse was seated in
the chair lately occupied by Mr Cresswell, listening
attentively to his father as he commented
again on the strange affair, the knowledge of
which he had brought home to him.

Taking advantage of a slight pause, Jesse
said, —

Father, I am afraid there is still some doubt
in your mind of the correctness of my statement.'


I have no doubt your statement is in direct
agreement with your judgment, Jesse.'

I want you to understand,' replied Jesse,
that I have brought to you not the result of any
judgment of mine, but a simple account of the

facts as they came before me. Everything,
with the one exception, is as plain to me as that
I am now seated before you.'

And that is the most important point

Yes, in one sense I see it is.'

In every sense,' replied Sir Edward.

No, father,' said Jesse, ' not in every sense ;
nor from my view of the case is it the most important.
I understand you to speak of it as a
question of property, but with me it is a question
of the heart. My love for Miss Montag brought
the question first seriously before me, and I am
persuaded it will so keep it before me irrespective
of all worldly views.'

You do not know what the world is, Jesse,'
said his father, with a faint smile.

Nor do I care to know, father, if further
knowledge of it would make me ungenerous or
selfish. I must speak plainly to you. If I did
not, I should play the hypocrite before you, and
feel unworthy of your confidence.'

I ask you for no other sacrifice but that of a
little patience,' said Sir Edward.

Patience for what, may I ask ? ' cried Jesse.
What can patience do for me ? Can it alter the
facts which have cost me so much time and labour
in their collection ? Suppose the poor woman
who came to such a miserable end was really

never married, — that she Hieland died a victim
to him who is gone to his account, — should the
knowledge of that have any effect on my love
for one who is as innocent as he was guilty? I
cannot think that you will argue that it should.
Is she impure because he was ? Did he bestow
upon her the kind and gentle spirit that pervades
her every thought ? No, you cannot say
he did. Have I not heard you assert that the
spirit of man comes pure and direct from the
hands of his Maker.'

It did originally, doubtless,' replied Sir
Edward ; ' but I think I need not remind you
that Adam, through disobedience in paradise,
fell from his high estate ; but I do not think weare
called upon to discuss that question at
present. I have simply to ask you, as my own
dear boy, to have patience and trust to my sense
of justice to do right.'

Were my own feelings alone concerned in
the matter,' replied Jesse, ' I would not say
another word in the way of contention with
you, but I cannot forget that such is not the
case. It is now weeks since, in obedience with
your wish, I gave you a promise which I have
since religiously kept. I little thought when I
made that promise that my patience would have
to undergo the trial it has had. If at the time

I thought at all seriously upon the subject, I
did not dream of binding myself to silence for
more than a few days. With scarcely a word I
suffered you to part me from one who was as
dear to me as my own life.

I yielded to your wish, and left you to take
her I knew not whither. I return to you after
many days of absence, and all that you will let
me know of her is that she is well. Can you
think that will content me ? I want to know if
she has not been very lonely and sad, and at
times been tempted to think I had forgotten
her. This may appear to you as idle talk.
You who have always lived so calm and quieta
life, and never felt the intolerable sensation of
separation from a beloved object, cannot, I am
persuaded, understand the torture you are inflicting
on me, and more so on one whose only
crime that she can have committed against you
is, that she has seen something in your son to
love ! '

Carried away by the earnestness of his feelings,
Jesse had spoken freely and rapidly, as if
he would not give his father an opportunity of
stopping him ; but his caution in that respect
was unnecessary. Before he had finished speaking
he saw his father lean forward over his
writing-desk, and, placing his hands before his

o:)

eyes, become convulsed with his unspoken passion.
He suddenly stopped, and rising, rushed
to his side, with the exclamation of, —

Are you not well, father ? '

For a few seconds a painful silence pervaded
the room, then Sir Edward, making a strong
effort to overcome his emotion, lifted his eyes
to his son, and said, —

I was not very well, but I am better now.'

Jesse could not understand his father's appearance.
To him his eyes appeared suffused
with tears, and his whole frame trembling from
some unseen cause.

You must please excuse me, father,' he said
at length ; ' I did not mean to offend you.'

And you have not done so,' was the reply
in little more than a whisper.

Then you are ill. Shall I call for assistance
? '

No,' replied his father, as he rose from his
chair and staggered towards the window.

Before Jesse could find words to give expression
to the fear that had seized upon him. Sir
Edward, struggling with himself, had so far
subdued his emotion that he was able to turn
and say, —

'It is nothing — it is nothing! only a little
faintness that I sometimes suffer from.'

I never saw you so affected before.'

No,' replied his father ; ' my attacks do not
often come upon me when any one is present,
and you will, if you please, take no notice of it
to your brother or sisters. I am better now —
quite well, you see,' he added with a smile.
And now, to finish our long and somewhat
painful conversation, I have a proposal to make
to you which, I trust, you will accept. I want
you to renew your promise that you will not
attempt to see Miss Montag, if I consent to
your communication being carried on by letter
only.'

I need make no promise,' said Jesse, ' if I
rightly understand your desire, which I hope I
may take it as simply referring to the present
time.'

Yes,' said his father ; ' or until we can come
to some further arrangement. I will give you
the needful address, and you can write by the
next post ; but I shall be glad to know that
you have not entered into any long explanation
of the subject that is engaging our

attention.'

Do you wish me not to mention it ? '
I would rather you did not, and that was
one reason why I did not readily consent to the
commencement of your correspondence. But



that is now settled, and, I may tell you, in accordance
with Mr Cresswell's advice.'

For which I will not fail to thank him,' said
Jesse.

You will soon have an opportunity of doing
so, as I have proposed to him that he and you
should see Lea before your return becomes the
topic of conversation, and closely question him
not only upon his own report, but upon the
facts you have discovered, in which he appears
so deeply concerned.'

Will you not be present also ? '

No ; we have considered the point, and
concluded that it is best I should not. Mr
Cresswell, you know, is a magistrate as well as
myself, and, if any public notice is to be taken
of your interview it would be better under his
hand than mine. When the matter gets abroad,
as doubtless it soon will, it might be supposed,
if I took an active part in the inquiry that I
had been seeking to bias the evidence in my
own favour.'

Who would dare think so ? '

No one can, if we do not give them the
opportunity,' replied Sir Edward.

Mr Cresswell having entered and taken his
seat near Jesse, the bell was rung for Lea, who
in a few minutes, assisted bv a stout walking-stick,

came hobbling into the room. His attack
of gout had passed away, but it had left him
apparently more fit for his bedroom than stumbling
about the house to look after the under-servants,
as he had persisted in doing for the
last few days.

As soon as he was fairly in the room, Sir
Edward rose from his chair and silently passed
out.

You are looking but poorly to-day,' observed
Mr Cresswell.

I am not as strong as I was,' said Lea ; * but
while I am able to get about, I must not be
idle.'

We want to have a little conversation with
you,' said Mr Cresswell, * respecting an occurrence
that took place when you were in Germany
some years since.'

The sunken, pallid cheeks of the old man
flushed for a moment as the name of Germany
fell upon his ears, and then returned to their
former hue. He brought his stick, on which
his right hand had been leaning, to the front,
and placing his left hand on the right, bent
forward upon it, as the gentlemen thought, to
save himself from falling on the floor, but in
reality to stand unmoved defiantly before them.

Sit down,' said Mr Cresswell.

Thank you, sir,' said Lea, ' but I am able to
stand

Jesse, fearing the old man would break down
before he could answer the questions he proposed
to put to him, said rather abruptly, —

We want you to explain the statement you
made to my father after your return from your
last visit to Germany.'

Yes,' said Lea, ' I thought you did.'

Then why did you not volunteer to explain
? '

I had nothing to explain,' said Lea. * I
brought back the answers to my inquiries, and
what more could I do ? '

I will show you,' said Jesse. ' Do you know
I have just returned from your route ? '

Yes, and I think I heard you say you could
not find any trace of a mark I left behind me.'

I did not tell you so.'

You talked loud enough for me to hear
you.'

And now,' retorted Jesse, * I repeat the
same to your face.'

And what did you expect after all these
years '^. Did you think I travelled about in a
coach-and-six like a prince, with a crowd of
people at my heels ? '

No,' said Jesse ; ' but I did expect to find

some slight proof that your statement was
correct.'

Did you find anything to show it was
false ? '

The failure of proof points in that direction
; and besides, the route you say you took
was not the right one.'

How could I tell which was the right one ? '

You knew before you started.'

Did I ? How did I know that, may I ask ? '

Let it suffice. I know you did.'

You are young, Mr Jesse — very young — to
talk to a man of my age in such a manner.
I appeal to Mr Cress well, who is a magistrate,
to know if you have a charge of wrong-doing
to bring against me — whether you are justified
in commencing the attack upon me as you have
done.'

I presume,' observed Mr Cresswell, ' that
Mr Jesse wished to obtain privately an admission
of something that took place years since
to avoid a public scandal.'

If he can prove I acted dishonestly let him
do so, and I will then speak in my own defence ;
but if he cannot do so, since he has been pleased
to make himself so busy about me, I will reply
no further to him than justice requires me todo.'


Do you mean to say,' asked Mr Cresswell,
that you will not answer any more questions
Mr Jesse may wish to put to you ? '

Yes, I do.'

'Then I think,' said Mr Cresswell, ' I would
advise Mr Jesse to refer the matter to Sir
Edward.'

To whom he pleases,' replied Lea, ' so that
he does not keep me standing here all the day.'

You surprise me,' said Jesse.

Ah, Mr Jesse,' retorted the old man, ' you
will have many things to surprise you before
you reach my years.'

What course Sir Edward will take with you,'
said Mr Cresswell, ' I cannot tell ; but I shall
feel it my duty to let him know how much I am
dissatisfied with your behaviour. I think you
may leave us now.'

Without a word more Lea turned round and
hobbled out of the room, leaving the two
gentlemen looking at each other in mute astonishment.
The old steward did not return
to his own room to mourn over the treatment
he had met with from one he looked upon as a
child, but in search of Sir Edward, whom he
found alone in the dining-room. The spirit of
good or evil, whichever it might be, was fully
aroused in him, and his master was surprised

to hear him say, as he entered the room, ' I
have come to give you notice that I wish to
leave your service, Sir Edward.'

Why is that ? ' asked his master. * What
has occurred to make you wish to leave me ? '

I am suspected of having done something
wrong while in your service. What it is 1
don't know. Mr Jesse perhaps can tell you.
He has insulted me, and I will not sleep in the
house another night.'

'You are out of temper,' said Sir Edward,
and will think better of it presently. Where is
Mr Jesse?'

I left him in the library.'

I will go to him,' said Sir Edward. He
saw that any attempt to argue with the angry
old man would be useless.

By the time the gentlemen in the library had
finished their deliberation on the untoward
event, as Sir Edward was disposed to look
upon it, the old steward had created quite a
revolution in his room. The late interview
or its result had not come upon him unawares.
Since Circum's visit his mind had been seriously
turned to the incident to which that gentleman
had so unceremoniously alluded, and he had
convinced himself that Woodcome Hall would
no longer afford him the shelter it had hitherto

done. Daily from the period of his visit he had
hourly expected his return.

Two courses only were open to him. Either
he must confess to Sir Edward the rascality of
which he had been guilty, and crave his forgiveness
and restoration to favour, or set him
and all around him openly at defiance. If he
chose the first he would have Circum as his
enemy, and as many stains upon his character
as he could fix upon it, which were not a few.
The last course was the most simple, and if his
enemies failed to substantiate any charge they
might make against him, he would henceforth
be his own master, and hold up his head as
high as ever. Yes, he would decide on that.

Whatever Jesse might have discovered, he
was satisfied that he had made out nothing that
would criminate him, or he would have proceeded
in a different manner. If he really
knew what he had done when he was with the
late Sir Henry he would have at once been
charged with dishonesty and dismissed the
service. He had not been in attendance in
the dining-room and elsewhere like a deaf dog
if he had been a dumb one. He knew nearly
as well as Jesse himself what had passed, and
also if he held his tongue and could manage to
keep Circum quiet, the link in the chain that

connected him with the missing woman would
be wanting.

Resolved what he would do, he took time
by the forelock and silently prepared for his
removal from the Hall, and the powerful influence
he had for so long exercised there.
With this view he had fixed upon Mrs Brown's
cottage, where he would for a time take up his
abode. Years since, after the death of his wife,
he had been very attentive to Mrs Brown, and
had gone so far as to hint something of marriage,
but a misunderstanding crept in between them,
and although he continued occasionally to call
at the cottage, he appeared to do so more for
the purpose of wrangling with her than for anymore
worthy purpose.

Of late, feeling the difficulty he had sometimes
of getting about, and how useful a good
nurse would be to him in his declining years,
he had had serious thoughts of bringing his
misunderstanding with Mrs Brown to a close,
and settling down at the cottage with her. He
could hire a bedroom at first, and if he found
his old love agreeable, he might offer her marriage,
and remove with her to a better house.

The only drawback he had come upon in his
reasoning on the matter was the little rascal of
a boy she had grown so fond of. If he could



have got rid of him, he had been for some weeks
ready for the change. But in that, as he could
not accomplish his purpose, he had striven to
put his disHke to the boy aside, and endeavoured
to make himself very agreeable at the cottage,
so that when his open rupture took place with
Jesse, he had become a welcome visitor there.

In less than three hours after the explosion
in the library, despite all Sir Edward could do
•or say to cool what he looked upon as a hasty
fit of anger, his property was in a cart on its
Away to the green lane. ' I might have stopped
my mouth and saved my money,' he murmured,
as he hobbled away from the Hall, 'but I can
live close for a time, and make up for the loss.'

On reaching the cottage, he found everything
in order ready for his reception. Mrs Brown,
like a sensible woman of slender means, had
listened to the alteration in his tone with a
complaisant ear. He had told her that he
felt he was growing old, and unequal to his
duties at the Hall, and that he would not go on
there slaving for ever. That he required rest,
and, if she would let him have a room at her
cottage, he would seek it there.

Who will blame Mrs Brown for being open
to flattery, particularly when it came to her
from an old lover and a man who was supposed,

VOL. III. K

by one means and another, to have amassed
property to the extent of some thousands of
pounds. It would, of course, occasion her
extra work, but what of that ? She would
have the means of paying her woman the more
frequently.

Her little lively boy was her only cause for
anxiety. How he and Mr Lea would agree
together she could not quite see. She had
done her best to make things pleasant between
them, and she trusted she had no reason to
think that she had laboured in vain, but that
all would go on well, — and she was not disappointed.


Lea had been an actor from his youth, and
had bent himself to circumstances as they
seemed to favour his interest, so, though he
would at times show a great amount of independence,
he was ever ready to lower his back
to the burden from which he could not escape
without loss to himself. Hence, when he found
he could not induce Mrs Brown to part with
her boy, he resorted to a practice with him
which he had formerly found so effectual with
his grandson Philip. He changed his whole
manner to the boy, and, instead of his old
frown and growl, met him with a smile and a
kind word, and very often with a more substantial

proof that he desired to be looked upon
by him as a friend.

Stephen at first eyed his old enemy with
suspicion, and kept at a respectful distance
from him, particularly when he had his stick
in his hand. But this feeling gradually wore
off, so that by the time Lea was ready to take
possession of his room, the boy had grown
almost as observant of him as he was of his old
well-tried friend !Mrs Brown.

Why, Stephen,' Lea would say to him, ' you
are becoming really a good, useful boy, and I
must speak to ]mr Montag about getting you
a good place, so that you may leave school,
and not be bothered any more with learning
lessons, and then we shall very soon make a
man of you.'

About the trouble of learning lessons Stephen
cared but little. They, when he chose to apply
his mind to them, had never interfered with
his sleep, but to grow into a man was quite
another thing, and aroused him to more active
exertion to please. While Lea could continue
to hold up a good place and the coming manhood
to Stephen, he need not fear any further
annoyance from him, — he would soon see that
he was converting his late tormentor into an
obedient and active slave.

Scarcely had Lea taken possession of his
room, when another fit of the gout came to
relieve him from being troubled with inquisitive
people. To all, excepting Sir Edward's
solicitor, he refused admittance, and he would
have done so to him if he had not thought he
could blind him to the real state of his mind,
and thus stave off all further questioning from
Jesse or any one else from the Hall.

Circum, on hearing from Nancy, as part of
the gossip of the village, of Lea's removal to
the cottage, called to see him in a great hurry
on his way to Downend. He had finished his
business in France, and left London for the
final attack. His first object was to see Lyson,
but, that he might make himself acquainted
with any change that had taken place at the
Hall during his absence, he thought it prudent
to make a detour to Woodfield by the way.
But Lea had prepared for his coming by
directing Mrs Brown that, if a gentleman by
the name of Circum should call, she was to tell
him that he was too ill to be seen. That he
had been trying the ointment he left with him,
and that he hoped to be able to see him very
soon.

Surely he could see me for five minutes
now.'

No replied Mrs Brown, ' he is not able to
see any one to-day.'

Tell him,' said Circum, ' that I will call
again tomorrow, or the next day. Say I am
now on my way from London to Downend,
and that when I return I shall have something
very pleasant to say to him.'

With inexpressible joy Miss Montag
received Jesse's letter from the
I hands of the postman, who, all unconscious
of the importance it was
to her, placed it in her hand as though it had
been a mere circular from a toy shop. It was
the first letter Jesse had written to her ; but
she knew his handwriting, and without bestowing
a second glance upon it she glided
away into her room, that the excitement pervading
her whole frame, which she felt she
could not conceal, might not be witnessed by
another.

How many kisses were bestowed upon the
envelope, and how they were increased in
number and intensity upon the treasure it
contained, we need not note. They were
honest kisses, and prompted by a grateful
heart. The business of the day had not left

Jesse time to write a long letter, but it was long
enough to assure her of his unalterable love,
and that was sufficient for her. He told her of
his having been on the Continent, and that he
had reason to hope that he should soon, in
another letter, be able to give her a full and
interesting account of his travels.

You must not think because my letter is
short I am writing unknown to my father. It
is simply because I am pressed for time to
catch the first post after I have obtained his
consent. He is very good, and if you are disposed
to answer this, though he should find
your letter in the bag, I could trust him to hand
it to me unsealed as it left your hand.'

Lizzie required no further invitation to write,
but immediately, in the Innocency of her heart,
set about what, ere it was finished, proved
rather a severe task. Her pen was not a very
good one, and the Ink decidedly thick and bad,
and from some cause or other the words would
not come out in the order in which she wished
to place them on the paper. At one momenta
tiresome hair would attach itself to the nib of
her pen and join letters and words together
which ought to stand apart, and then a drop of
ink would maliciously leap out from her pen
to spoil her paper.

At length, however, her task was completed
and the envelope closed, stamped, and ready
for the post. How was she to get it to the
office now became the question. It was far
too precious to be trusted in the hands of a
stranger, and she could not ask Mrs Wilkins to
put it in or let the maid run with it without
exciting her curiosity and subjecting herself to
much unpleasant questioning. Mrs Wilkins
was very kind to her, but she would as soon
have thought of calling in the fustian to read
her letter as show it to her. And so it hap-^
opened that, though so wishing to get it into the
post the moment it was finished, she was
obliged to wait until she was out for a walk
with her guardian in the afternoon for an
opportunity of dropping it unseen into the
letter-box.

The old lady knew nothing of the arrival of
the letter, or how busy certain little fingers had
been in answering it ; but she did not fail ta
observe that her companion appeared in much
better spirits, and that a slight tinge of her old
country colour had again resumed its place on.
her cheeks. This excited her curiosity, and
but for an incident that turned her thoughts in
another direction, her questions might have
proved difficult to answer.

Well, now I ' exclaimed sirs Wilkins as they
were leaving High Street, ' if my old eyes do
not deceive me, that was Mr Circum who just
turned the corner. But that is not the way to
his lodgings or our house. If we make haste
we shall see where he is going.'

When they had reached the corner, and were
in the act of turning into the next street, they
came directly upon the gentleman in question.

A few words explained the reason, or the want
of reason, of his going in the wrong direction.

The fact is,' he said, ' I am just come
from the train, and while thinking of something
else I took the wrong turning. And
where have you been, may I ask ? '

Only doing a little shopping,' replied sirs
Wilkins.

Will you be at home this evening ? ' he
asked.

Yes.'

I thought you were going to see a sick
neighbour ?' said Miss Montag.

Oh yes, I forgot, but I can put that off or
make my visit a very short one,' said Mrs
Wilkins ; a great desire had seized upon her
mind to learn something more of the movements
of Circum than she had yet been able.
Where could he go with his little black bag and

return as prim as if he had just come out of a
hairdresser's shop.'

I am going away again tomorrow,' he said,
and if you can have me for an hour or two
this evening, I shall be very glad, for to speak
the truth when I have had my tea I find the
time hang heavily on my hands.'

Perhaps you will come and take a cup of tea
with us ? '

I can only say, with thanks,' replied Circum,
that I shall be most happy to do so.'

We shall be quite alone,' said Mrs Wilkins.

You are a host in yourself.'

Well, I don't know about that,' said Mrs
Wilkins, with a very satisfied air, ' but I believe
I know how to keep people from wearying as
well as most women.'

I will go to my lodgings and write a letter
or two, and then, if you please, come on to
you.'

What a very pleasant gentleman he is,' said
Mrs Wilkins to her companion as they went
on homeward together. I wonder where he is
going tomorrow, and where he has come from
now. I wish you would help me to find out
who he is.'

I am afraid I should be a bad one to help
you, as he seems to make me talk about myself



without telling me anything you would care to
know about himself.'

Circum must have been a rapid writer, or
his letters were but very short ones, as little
time elapsed after passing with Mrs Wilkins in
the street before he presented himself at her
door.

I don't know how it is,' he said, while
sipping his tea and paying great attention to
the buttered toast, ' but I never take a cup
of tea with you without wishing that I should
never be called upon to take one anywhere
else ; it is so excellent in quality, and made
and served with so much judgment and good
taste ! '

This was a matter he had learnt, upon which
he might be unsparing in his flatters* to his
hostess. It was the great pride of her life
that she was acknowledged to know how to
make a good cup of tea.

You don't oft such good tea abroad ? ' she
said.

By no means,' replied Circum ; •' they know
nothing about it there, and, in consequence,
give you coffee morning, noon, and night ! '

'Well, I shouldn't like that,' said Mrs Wilkins.

There is one good elinor about it — it makes
us enjoy our English customs the more.'

'Are you English?' said Mrs Wilkins ; 'I
thought you were not when I first met you

I am a traveller said Circum ; ' my chief
business is in Germany, though you see it
sometimes brings me to England

*A great business, no doubt,' said Mrs
Wilkins.

Sufficient to keep me fully employed
But you don't do it all yourself ? '

Oh no, I have plenty of help ; but my
people want a good deal of looking after
Then, feeling that he had sufficiently satisfied
her curiosity for his purpose, he turned his
attention to Miss Montag. 'And how have
you been spending your time — busy with your
needle, I suppose ? '

'Yes, with my knitting-needles,' said Miss
Montag.

'Ah, they are teaching boys to knit now,
I hear; I wish they had taught me when I
was young.'

*Why, what in the name of goodness exclaimed
Mrs Wilkins, ' could you do with such
sleepy work ? '

Do you call it sleepy work ? '

Yes, I do,' said Mrs Wilkins. ' Why, I
have known old women who would dose off
and work away as if they were wide awake.'

'What do you say to that, Miss Montag ? '
asked Circuit.

Say ? ' repeated the lady, totally ignorant
of what she was expected to reply to.

Yes ; can one knit and sleep ? ' said Circum.
^ I have said it could not be done ; but I think
I shall change my mind and say it is possible.'

And so the conversation went on, until the
tell was rung for the maid to take away the
tea things, when INIrs Wilkins said, —

I think I will just send round to know how
my old friend I^Irs Snow is, and put off my
visit till tomorrow.'

I should think that would be best said
Miss Montag.

If Circum had given way to the impulse of
the moment, he would have said, ' Oh dear, no !
that would not be right. If you have a sick
friend to see, there is no time for a visit so
good as the present.' But a second thought
told him that if he gave her the least chance
to think he wished to be alone with Miss
Montag, her curiosity would have defeated his
object. He therefore contented himself by
saying, —

I suppose there is no fear of your friend's
illness endings m death before the mornings ? '

She often fancies she is dying,' said Mrs

Wilkins, but I have not seen much difference
in her for the last two years

Here the maid returned with a message that
Mrs Snow felt very ill indeed, and wanted to
see Mrs Wilkins very much, if only for a few
minutes.

'Well, I suppose I must go,' said Mrs
Wilkins.

I am sorry,' observed Circum, * as it will
send me off to my solitary room.'

I shall not be long gone,' said Mrs Wilkins ;
and why should you go away ? There are
plenty of books for you to look at, and if
you get tired of them you can get a lesson
on knitting.'

I am afraid I am too old to learn, and
perhaps Miss Montag would not take the
trouble to teach me.'

'Nonsense,' said Mrs Wilkins, 'you just
make up your mind to stop till I come back ; '
and with that she retired, followed by Miss
Montag to assist in equipping her for her
short journey.

I think,' said Miss Montag, ' I will stop
here till you return.'

Now, there is no occasion for that. You
are not afraid of him, surely ? If he were a
smart young man it might be different'

No, it would be the same to me.'

Oh yes, I dare say it would. But never
mind, and do not look so serious about it.
Go in and sit down as if I was there, and
make the poor old gentleman as much at home
as you can. We have none of us too many
friends.'

On re-entering the parlour, Miss Montag
took up her knitting and resumed her seat.

For a few minutes, Circum remained near
the table upon which the books lay, reading
a bit here and a bit there, and making an
occasional observation on their contents ; he
then rose from his seat, saying as he did so, —

I think I have been reading too much of
late, so I will, as my good hostess said, take a
lesson, if you please, in knitting.'

You will find me but an indifferent teacher,'
said Miss Montag.

My first lesson shall be to mark how you
use the needles.'

I would rather you kept to your books,'
thought Lizzie; but she continued with her work.

It is very curious,' he observed, ' that the
few simple movements you make should produce
such beautifully finished work. Ah, but
I see you have to count and calculate ; so
I suppose it is not so simple as I thought.'

This piece requires a little extra care.'

And do you find your work here as pleasant
as it is in the country ? '

Yes, the work itself.'

But not so the cramped-up house. No ;
you like the free, open country with its birds
and trees and ever-murmuring streams, in
preference to the close street, with its noisy
boys and lumbering vehicles. Then there you
have by day the bright, warm sun to cheer
you, and by night the moon, planets and
twinkling stars to raise your thoughts to heaven.
Here, by day, generally a murky atmosphere,
and by night the glimmering gaslights to draw
your eyes down to the dirty streets.'

I do not think it is quite so bad as that,
though I confess I prefer the country.'

'And it would be strange if you did not,'
said Circum, ' since the greater part of your
life has been spent in what may fairly be called
a garden.'

Did you see much In Woodfield to admire ?'

Yes, much ; and I saw your brother's boy,
to whom I took a great fancy, though I heard
he was rather given to mischief.'

He is a bright little fellow,' said Miss
Montag ; * but I am sometimes afraid his mischief
will be laid to my brother's charge.'

No fear of that,' rejoined Circum, ' when
the good people of Woodfield know who your
brother is as well as I do.'

Know who my brother is ! ' said Miss Montag,
stopping in her work and looking earnestly
at her companion. ' Have you seen
my brother } '

No, but I have heard of him ; and what
would you say if I were to tell you that, in
my late journey through Germany, I made
some singular discoveries about his family ^ '

Of my mother, do you mean ? ' cried the
excited girl. ' If you did, and will tell me, I
will call you a friend indeed I '

Not only your mother, but your father also.'
I am surely dreaming.'

No, you are not dreaming. Listen to me,
and I will explain.' He then ran over the
narrative with which the reader is acquainted.
When he had finished, he said, — ' Now, have
1 proved myself your friend ? '

Yes, yes ! But who can say that the poor
woman who died in the park was the one you
traced through Germany ? ' .

An old servant now with Sir Edward.'

What ! Mr Lea, the old steward ? '

The same.'

And do you tell me that my mother was

VOL. III. L

the wife of the son of the late Sir Henry
Hare wood ? '

I have plenty of witnesses to prove that
she was morally so, and two or three besides
myself to prove that her marriage was legal
also.'

It must be a dream,' cried Lizzie, rubbing
her eyes. * It cannot be true.'

Calm yourself and listen to me, for I have
more to tell you yet. You thought you had
not a relative in the world ; you must now
learn that you have many, and myself in the
number.'

'It is of no use my listening ! I cannot
understand.'

Be quiet,' said Circum, * and you soon will.
Try if you cannot remember something that
occurred to you and your brother before you
reached Woodfield. It is well known, I hear,
that you both spoke some German words when
you were found.'

Yes,' she replied, * I have been told so ;
and I have heard the words so often repeated,
that I feel sometimes as if I did remember
them.'

And do you not remember something of
Germany and your friends there 1 '

Do not ask me, for I cannot answer. The

same question has been put to me so many
times, and I have so tried to remember, that
I do not now know the reality from that which
has been suggested to me as possible.'

A man engaged a little farmer to take you
with your brother and mother in a cart to a
village.'

Did he ? ' said Lizzie wonderingly.

Yes, and that man was myself, a cousin of
your mother.'

Oh, why did you not tell me something of
this before. It has come upon me all so suddenly,
that I can scarcely retain my senses.'

I could not tell you until I had made the
discovery myself Until I saw you on your
way from Folkestone, and was so struck with
your appearance, I had no certain knowledge
of the existence of you or your brother.'

My brother,' sighed Lizzie; 'does he know
all?'

No ; but tomorrow or the next day I shall
go to Bath to have an interview with him.
Unfortunately, he is still a minor, and cannot
act for himself, so I must, at much inconvenience,
act for him.'

How act for him ?*

I must establish his title to the family
estate.'

What estate do you mean ? '

The Woodcome Hall estate, and other
entails.'

My brother the owner of Woodcome Hall ?
impossible ! Who then is Sir Edward ?'

The son of a younger brother of Sir Henry.'

Oh, I wish my brother were of age, I would
tell him what to do.'

What would you tell him ? '

I would beg him to go to Sir Edward, and
ask him to take the management of the whole
affair into his own hands.'

Then you would beg him to do a very foolish
thing ; but as it is, I am the only one that can
act. Unfortunately I am a stranger in England,
and shall be called upon to prove my
identity, I have witnesses, but they are foreigners
and strangers like myself. If I have to depend
entirely on them, it will be at a great sacrifice
of time. You will therefore be called upon to
make an affidavit.'

What is that .^ '

In the present case, a sworn statement of all
that you can remember about me in Germany.'

That will give me no trouble.'

I am very glad to hear you say so.'
Because I cannot remember one single
thing.'

But you must try and remember

It will be useless.'

Then,' said Circum, * you must get your
imagination to help you. If you have your
brother s interest at heart, you will not let such
a trifle as your bad memory stand for much.'

But if I swore to a falsehood ? '

It would not be a falsehood,' cried Circum,
interrupting her. ' I tell you it is all true, and
I can prove it is.'

Then you must do it without me.'

You have your brother's welfare in your
hands. Will you ruin him for a mere idle
scruple, and condemn yourself to a false position
? No, no ; you will not be so weak. I will
get the affidavit drawn up, and let you see it,
and I know you will go through the form of
signing it.'

I cannot promise you that.'

When your brother gets possession of his
property, he will have little reason to remember
he has a sister.'

Let me see the paper, and I will sign it if
I can.'

Spoken like the girl of spirit I took you for ;
and now I will tell you that I am religiously
interested in the success of this my scheme, to
correct a wrong that was done years ago, and

which, but for my accidentally meeting you,
would have gone on to the end of time without
redress. I am sure the more you think of it
you will agree with me, that to do an act of
justice one must not be too particular about
the means we use for the purpose ; and then
there is another thing you should take into
account, though I don't like to mention it'

Pray, tell me what it is.'

I have already told you that there is no
question about the family to which you belong.
Without doubt you are the grand-daughter of
the late Sir Henry Harewood, but if we fail to
prove your mother was legally married to his
son, the world will treat her memory with contempt,
and you will never be able to think of
her without feeling that you have been grossly
injured.'

When did you say you would see my
brother ? '

To-morrow or the next day ; but before I go
we will settle about the affidavit ; but I think we
had better close the business for the night. Mrs
Wilkins will, I suppose, soon return, and as she
is an old servant of the Harewood family, and
just a little fond of talking, it will not be well
that she should be taken into our council at
present.'

You knew Sir Henry had grandchildren.'

Yes ; but I had lost sight of them for a very
long time.'

From their infancy ? '
Yes.'

After that you next saw me in the train ; but
how did you know me ? '

You are the picture of your mother ; but you
told me who you were yourself.'

Did I } '

Yes, in part then, but more fully since.'

And you have taken all this trouble for
us?'

Yes, I have nothing to expect in return but
gratitude, and any recompense your brother
may deem fit to make me.'

But if you cannot establish his claim ? '

Then we shall have had all our trouble and
expense for nothing, and therefore you see, as
I have already told you, we must not be too
particular. I mean,' he added, on seeing a
shade pass over Lizzie's face, ' that as our cause
is just, we must use all our power to make it
sure.'

I cannot help thinking,' said Lizzie, ' it
would be best if you would go and explain it
all to Sir Edward, as I am sure he would not
seek to take advantage of you.'

I propose seeing him tomorrow or the next
day ; and — '

Ah ! here you are,' cried Mrs Wilkins,' as
she entered the room, ' snug and cozy as two
young people ought to be.'

They had heard her at the front door, and so
were not unprepared for her appearance. Have
I seemed a long time gone ? It must be a good
hour, I am sure, but I couldn't get away a
minute sooner.'

Keeps her bed,' said Circum.

Oh yes, there is something wrong with her
spine, the doctor says.'

I did not finish my writing before I came,
so I must ask you to let me run away now, or
I shall have to sit up half the night.'

Going away directly ? ' said Mrs Wilkins.
Well, I am sorry I stopped so long.'

I am going in the country tomorrow, but I
will look round to say good-bye before I set
off. Good-night ; good-night.'

As soon as the door had closed upon him,
the old lady turned to Lizzie, and said, —

Has he had a letter or anything brought to
him since I went out ? '

No — nothing.'

Then I suppose he remembered something
that he had neglected to do, that he

has gone off in such a hurry. Well, I am
disappointed.'

Miss Montag helped her to take off her
bonnet and shawl, and then said, —

I feel very stupid and sleepy, and I think if
you do not wish me to sit up with you, I will
go away to my bedroom at once.'

Are you not well ? '

More stupid than sick,' she replied as she
left the room.

'Well; thought Mrs Wilkins, 'if I did not
know he was an old man, and she little more
than a child, I should say there had been a love-scene
between them. It seems so droll that
they should both want to run away the moment
I came in.'

Lizzie having closed and fastened her door,
sat down by the side of her bed thoroughly
bewildered by what she had heard, and what
she might expect the next few days to bring to
light. She then murmured, ' Without guidance
I shall be lost,' and fell upon her knees. Long
and earnest were the prayers her heart prompted
her lips silently to utter.

Feeling comforted by what she believed to
be an answer to her prayers, she rose from her
humble posture, and, sitting down again, endeavoured
calmly to review the events of the

day. Jesse's letter was again pressed to her
lips, and blessings invoked upon his head. She
now knew that, from whatever cause his long
silence had arisen, he had not forgotten her,
and her strong faith in his love made her feel
that he never would. Thoughts of him and of
his letter with her answer, would have given
her happy employment, not only for that night
but many nights to come, had they not been
rudely broken in upon by the information, in a
great part unpleasant to her, she had received
from Circum.

If it was true indeed that she was the person
he represented her to be, she would, for the
clearing up of her doubts respecting the mystery
of her birth, be very glad, but not if the knowledge
of it caused a bad spirit to spring up
between her brother and Sir Edward. ' It
seems all too wonderful to be true ! ' she thought
Oh that I had some one here I could speak
to, and who could advise me what I ought
to do ! But there is no one, and here, in
the midst of thousands of people, I am alone !
No ! no ! no ! I am not alone,' she added after
a pause. * This dear letter assures me that I
am not. I will write to Jesse and tell him the
particulars of what I have learnt to-day. He
will write and tell me what I ought to do, \i he

cannot come to me. How do I know that Mr
Circum is \vhat he represents himself to be ?
He may be a good man, but what has he done
or said that I should have implicit confidence
in him ? He wishes Mrs Wilkins should not
know what he has told me. Why so ? If his
cause is just, what is there to be feared ? I
will write to Jesse and my brother directly, —
but perhaps I had better think a little more of
it first. Yes, I will, and patiently wait till Mr
Circum calls again, so that I may be able to give
every particular of what he proposes to do.'

Miss Montagu's evident desire not
to sign any paper, proved not a little
perplexing to Circum. He had valued
what he thought he could make her
say or sign at a great price. He had secured
his two friends in France, so that they were
ready to swear to anything he wished ; but, ashe
had said, they were strangers, and would not
carry the weight with them that her and her
brother's recollections would do. But even they
alone would enable him to threaten to commence
an action, and carry it into court, if liberal terms
were not offered for a private arrangement.

After thinking over the matter for some considerable
time, he at length decided that he
would not press Miss Montag any more until
he had seen her brother and made him an
accomplice in the plot. He had made her
understand how much her brother's success

depended on her, and he felt satisfied that if
the battle was once commenced, she would
come to the front and assist her brother in
establishing his claim.

As he now deemed it unnecessary to be over-cautious
in his bearing at Woodfield, he wrote
to Nancy in the most flattering terms of her
good management of her house, and its great
order, cleanliness, and so on. — said he would
take it as a great favour if she would let him
have her room acrain for a few days on the old
terms. He wrote also to Lyson to say he would
be with him, ready for work, in the course of a
day or two.

The next morning he was about betimes, and
called early upon Mrs Wilkins to say good-bye,
not that he expected or wished to see her, ashe
had learnt that she did not appear in the
breakfast-room until everything was quite ready
for her to sit down to the table. He wished to
have a few words with Miss Months: alone.
On passing a second time by the house he saw
her at the window, and beckoned her to the
door.

I am glad I have had the good fortune to
meet with you so readily,' he said, ' as I wished
to tell you that I find, upon fuller consideration
of the points we discussed last night, that I need

not ask you at present to sign your affidavit of
your remembrance of me when a child in Germany.
Perhaps I shall not want it at all ; but
should I, and suddenly send for it, you will be
ready to fulfil your last night's promise
Did I make a promise ? '
I think you did ; but so or not, I am sure
you would not by your inaction stop the course
of justice, and make your brother, instead of
his taking his place amongst the gentlemen of
England, a wandering vagabond on the earth,
followed by the contempt and scorn of every
sensible man ! '

I trust I shall not do that murmured Lizzie.
'No, of course you will not ; but you will, on
the other hand, if required, play the part of a
good sister, and, as far as you possibly can, help
your brother to his birthright, and clear the
memory of your poor, unfortunate, and much-abused
mother from the stain which will otherwise
remain upon it. Were I not pressed for
time, I should have much more to say to you ;
but I have said enough, I trust, to make you
fix your eyes upon your brother's prospect of
good fortune, and of the mystery of your birth
being cleared up in the most satisfactory manner.
You did not mention the subject to Mrs Wilkins
after I left you last night ? '

No, I did not

And you will not do so, if you please, until
you hear from me ; and now I am off. Tell
Mrs Wilkins I was obliged to leave by an early
train, and am sorry I could not stop to see her ;
good-bye ; you shall soon hear from me.'

Oh dear,' thought Lizzie, as she entered the
breakfast room, ' I do hope he will never want
me to sign any papers, for I do not understand
them. But I will write to Jesse.'

How tiresome it is,' said Mrs Wilkins, as
she sat down to her breakfast, ' that I was not
down in time to see Mr Circum. If you had
only asked him to come in, I would have slipped
on my dress and been down in a minute.'

He said he could not stop.'

Well, he is a puzzle to me. He seems todo
nothing but run about with his black bag.
I wonder he does not rest a little more, and let
some of his people do the running about for
him. Well, and how is your headache this
morning ? '

Not very well,' replied Lizzie, pleased to
catch at an excuse for her want of appetite,
which she knew would not pass unnoticed.

You look feverish ; I hope you are not
going to have a fit of illness. What ! only able
to eat a bit of dry toast } Come, that will never

do ; you must make a good breakfast, or I shall
take you down to Mr Cole, and see what he
will say to you.'

I do not want to see Mr Cole, but I want to
be very quiet this morning, and then, in the
afternoon, I shall be ready to go out with you.'

Very well, I shall be busy here this morning,
and a little noisy perhaps, so you had better sit
up in your own room. In the afternoon, if it
holds fine, we will jump into a tram car and go
up to Finsbury Park ; and then, if you are not
better, we must call round and see the doctor.'

While Circum was so craftily employed in
London in endeavouring to strengthen his plot
by drawing Miss Montag into its vortex, the
state of affairs was becoming very serious at.
Woodcome Hall. The failure of the information
they had hoped to obtain from the old
steward threw them into the greatest perplexity.
His silence did not affect the main features of
the question, but of the legality of the marriage
they were as much in the dark as ever.

Unfortunately, this question was not the only
one that was giving Sir Edward grave cause
for anxiety. A few days since an unexpected
and unlooked-for incident occurred in the main
road near the village. Sir Edward, with Mr
and Mrs Cresswell and Edith, had been out fora

drive round the country, and were returning
to the park when, within a few hundred yards
of the gate, they came upon an apparently poor,
old, lame man, who seemed to have much difficulty
to save himself from being run over.

Why didn't you keep on the footpath until
we had passed?' called out the coachman. 'One
would think you wanted to get run over.'

The old man shouted out something about
the road being as free to him as any one.

The affair was viewed by Mr and Mrs
Cresswell as a mere trifle, arising from the
stupidity of a foot passenger getting thoughtlessly
in the way of the horses, and Sir Edward
trusted it was so, likewise with Edith, though
she gave a sudden start, and became very pale
as the sound of the man's voice died away.

People are very careless,' said Mrs Cress-well,
' in getting in the way of the horses.'

They seem to think,' said her husband,
that coachmen always have their horses in
such order that they can change their course
or stop them in an instant.'

A little practice on the box,' observed Sir
Edward, ' would soon teach them better.'

Edith did not speak, but when the park gate
closed behind them a look of relief passed over
her countenance, and led Sir Edward to fear

VOL. III. M

that the recognition of the long-absent voice
had not been confined to his own ear. When
they reached the Hall she was the last to leave
the carriage, and while her foot was on the step
her hand convulsively grasped the arm of Sir
Edward, as she said in a whisper, ' Did you
hear him ? ' He gave an affirmative look, and
they passed on without further speech.

For many days afterwards Edith did not pass
out into the public road, and Sir Edward was
not curious to know why she had become so
much attached to the drive within the park.
He would not ask her in the presence of her
father and mother lest he should unnecessarily
excite their fears for her safety, and he dared
not do it in their absence lest he should show
more of the inward working of his heart than
was desirable. His daily occupation kept his
mind from morbidly dwelling upon the unpleasant
incident, and well would it have been for
Edith if such had been the case with her.

She had her mother and father to converse
with and be advised by, but why should she
torture them with the idea that had seized upon
her own mind that her husband was hanging
about the place in disguise, either to do her
some personal injury or to find an opportunity
of forcibly carrying her off from her friends ?

She would willingly have spoken to Sir Edward,
as she still retained for him the affection of a
sister, without having committed herself in anyway
to the confession of any other sentiment,
even to her own heart.

Her self-sacrifice and innocence, however,
could not protect her from the effects of her fear
by day, or tormenting dreams by night. Her
father and mother watched with increasing
anxiety her fading colour, and the dark lines
that spread themselves day by day beneath her
eyes. But with all their questioning they could
not draw from her the secret that was causing
the unhappy change in her appearance.

I am not very well,' she would say, ' but it
is nothing to alarm you.'

Do you think the air here disagrees with
you ? ' asked her mother.

I do not know why it should.'

If you are not better in a day or two, I shall
insist on your seeing a medical man.'

You want to frighten me into good health } '

I think I must ask your father to take us

away to Wales or Scotland, or some other place

at a good distance from home, where we can

have a complete change of air and scenery.'

Neither you nor papa are equal to a long
journey, I am afraid.'

You might have said so were we living in

the olden times when travelling was so difficult,

but now a journey by rail is quite another thing

I do not wish to go away,' said Edith.

Notwithstanding her wish, however, her

mother did speak to her father, and earnestly

urged that her project should be adopted, and

this brought the question, to his great perplexity,

before Sir Edward, who had from the first

rightly judged of the cause of Edith's sickness.

He now found himself in a great strait, and
was for some time utterly at a loss to know
what course to take. Difficulties beset him on
every side. Should he give his vote for the
visit to Wales or Scotland, who could say what
might follow. From Lyson's appearance, as he
saw him on the road, and from certain reports
he had heard of him, he was inclined to think
the man was growing desperate, from being unnoticed,
and was ready for any mad scheme of
revenge that he could hit upon.

If,' he thought, as he argued the matter with
himself, * the journey is decided on, it will soon
become the talk of the county, and give Lyson
an opportunity of forcing himself upon them
under the pretence of seeking an explanation
with his wife. His conduct since his return
shows how little he is to be trusted. Had he

come back, as he protested he should do, a
repentant sinner, looking back with shame upon
his past career, would he not ere this have
found means to convince Mr Cresswell of the
fact?

But he has shown no disposition to do anything
of the kind, and I cannot imagine why he
is prowling about the country in disguise, if it
is not to take some unfair advantage of Mr
Cresswell or his daughter. I cannot advise
them to leave the shelter of my house, and
risk the placing themselves in his power. If
I dared to speak to Edith alone on the subject,
I think I could convince her of the necessity
of her remaining here rather than seeking
safety elsewhere.

Lyson's object in coming to England becomes
daily a greater enigma to me. That it was
simply to see his sick father, I do not believe ;
and if it was to get, through Mr Cresswell's repugnance
to see him, a more liberal supply of
money, why he has remained so long inactive at
Downend I cannot understand. If he were
acting with others one might imagine a hitch
had occurred somewhere in their arrangements
to cause the delay, but nothing that I have seen
or heard points to such a conclusion. I must
speak to Edith, and strive to convince her that

she will be safer here than in any other place
she could go to

Being thus resolved, he went immediately in
search of the object of his thoughts. He had
seen her a little time before in the garden, and
thitherward he bent his steps. He was enabled
by great care and watchfulness to control his
feelings, and keep his long-cherished secret
safely locked in his heart, consequently the interview
did not prove very exciting.

I want to speak to you,' he said, * of the
cause of your projected journey.'

Of its cause ? ' said Edith.

Yes,' he replied ; * you must not think I am
ignorant of it. To convince you that I am
not, I need only remind you of an incident that
occurred some days since out in the public
road, when a once well-known voice greeted
my ears.'

Then it was no mere fancy of mine?' sighed
Edith.

It does not seem likely when we both received
the same impression. But, fancy or not,
I have sorrowfully observed that, from that time
your health and spirits have both yielded to
what I doubt not is a source of great anxiety to
you.'

I have tried to imagine what could have

been his object in appearing in such a place so
disguised said Edith, ' but I have certainly
failed to satisfy myself.'

We must leave it for time to unravel. I
merely alluded to it to let you see that I know
why of late you have looked so sad and ill.
And now I wish to speak briefly to you of
the position in which you are so disagreeably
placed here, and the chance there is of its
being improved by the contemplated change.*

Do you wish me to leave the Hall ? '

No ; on the contrary, it is my most earnest
desire that you should remain here until your
father can come to some reasonable terms with
the man who may assert his power to control
your actions.'

What terms can we hope to make with
him?'

If he could prove himself worthy of your
love — '

Do not talk of it ! ' cried Edith. ' For
years I strove to think it was possible ; but now
I know it is not. Come what may, I do not
say I cannot live with him again, but that I
will not. I cannot tell you how gross his conduct
was at times when I was with him ; nor
have I ever told my father or mother with what
contempt and scorn he spoke of them when

they did not send him the cheques he required.
But I must not talk of this. Nay ; I must not
think of it, or I shall lose my reason in an
attempt to understand the strange delusion I
must have been under in my youth ever to
have imagined there was anything approaching
to nobility in his character.'

A fond look of admiration gleamed from the
eyes of Sir Edward as he listened to her words.
She saw it, but she did not shrink from him.
Was he not as a brother to her, and one in
whom she had ever had the greatest confidence,
and with whom she had never exchanged a
word or look that would have been held in
check by a multitude of witnesses.

Do not distress yourself with the recollection
of your past unhappiness,' said Sir Edward.
Let us rather consider how we can deal with
the present. We must not disguise from ourselves
that the vow you made at the altar is still
binding upon you, and your husband might, if
he chose, apply for an order to compel you to
return to him. Do not be alarmed ; I do not
say you would be obliged to obey it on the
instant, as time might be obtained to prove he
had, by his conduct, deprived himself of the
claim he once had upon you. But that you
could not do without much trouble, anxiety, and

expense. You would have to employ counsel
and detectives to trace his past career on the
Continent, which I know you would not like
to do.'

But what else could I do ? '

Remain quietly where you are, that he may
have no opportunity of using force to make you
comply with his wishes, whatever they may be.
My opinion has been, and is still the same, that
it is not so much your person that he is desirous
of getting into his power as your and your
father's purse.'

If that is all he wants, he may have it freely
for me.'

Can you be content to stop here till your
father can come to some final arrangement with
him?'

Content ! ' repeated Edith ; ' I shall be more
than content ; I shall be happy.'

While within the park fence you will have
little cause to fear annoyance from any quarter,
but once without in the public road or train, my
power of protecting you would cease from anything
short of personal violence.'

Your speaking so plainly to me,' said Edith,
*■ has already, I feel, in a great measure restored
me to myself For some days I have sought
for an opportunity of meeting you alone, but in

my weak state I fancied you strove to avoid
me, which, as I could assign no cause for your
doing, made me but the more unhappy.'

We must have no more such fancies,' said
Sir Edward ; ' you will trust to your friends that
no one can be suffered to injure or annoy you.'

I will endeavour to do so.'

And now,' said Sir Edward, * I will go to-your
father and advise him to give up his projected
journey, but you must promise to be
more careful of your health than I fear you have
been of late.'

'Now I feel I can speak freely to you,'
replied Edith ; ' you need have no fear either
for my health or spirits ; you will see I shall
soon be myself again.'

She spoke as she thought, but the task she
undertook proved too much for her strength.
To the great alarm of her mother, before the
sun went down that day, a natural laugh ended
in a hysterical fit, which left her so languid and
weak that she could not get to her bedroom
without assistance.

The family doctor having been sent for, he
immediately pronounced Mrs Lyson to be
suffering from a nervous fever, which, though
not at present showing any dangerous symptoms,
must for some days prove very serious to



the sufferer and her friends. And so it happened
that, while Sir Edward was congratulating-himself
on the control he had obtained over his
feelings while conversing on so delicate a subject
alone with Edith, the news reached him of
her sudden attack of illness and the summoning
of the doctor.

ESSE would fain have strolled out
alone, though he quietly acquiesced
in his father's proposal that he
should walk with him and Mr Cress-well
down to the keeper's house, as he wished
to speak to Smith about some alteration they
had been planning in one of the woods. That
morning's post had brought to Jesse Lizzie's
answer to his letter, and filled his heart with a
sensation of pleasure which would not permit
a second person to share with him. He felt
that he must be alone fully to realise and enjoy
it ; yes, he must get into the fields and woods by
himself, and talk to the birds and trees of his
happiness.

The letter was so prettily written, — so full of
trust and confidence in his love ; not one word
of complaint on account of his long silence ; not
one impatient expression that he should come

and see her, or that he should obtain permission
for her to return to Woodfield.

I am a little curious,' she wrote, * to know
what circumstance you allude to which promises
us so much happiness, but I will not
tease you to tell me. I know you will do so
as soon as you can, and that will make me wait
patiently for the information. You ask me if
I have been happy here. How can I answer
you. The person in whose charge Sir Edward
left me has been very good, and I have wanted
for nothing that kind treatment could supply,
but I cannot say I have been happy in my
exclusion from you.'

The whole tenor of the letter assured him
that his love had not been misplaced. That
however lowly her position in the world might
be, nature had saved her from being influenced
by the thoughts and desires of vulgar minds.
Like silver refined in the fire, she would come
forth from her trials a purified spirit, which he
must cherish as an angel sent to him from
heaven. Of this kind were the thoughts that
passed through his mind, and these thoughts
were not to be shared by another, even though
that person were his father, sister, or brother.

The walk of the three gentlemen down to
the keeper's house was not accompanied by

loud talking and laughter ; their conversation,
taking its character from the tone of their
thoughts, was guarded and serious. Confidence
was not in any way wanting between
them, but in their hearts there were restless
thoughts which they feared to clothe in words
lest they should but increase their present
perplexities.

Mr Cress well had become doubtful of the
effect his leaving home had had, and was
having upon the struggle in which he was
engaged. When he accepted Sir Edward's
invitation he was under the impression that his
absence from Downend would only be of a few
days' duration. That his unprincipled son-in-law
having seen his father and discovered that
his attempt to extort money had failed would
perforce return to the Continent to save his
quarterly stipend.

But his lengthened stay without any application,
personal or otherwise, for an interview
with him or Edith, caused him to fear that the
question would not be so easily disposed of.
He began to doubt whether it would not have
been better for him to have remained at home,
and, if he had found it necessary, appeal to the
law for protection for himself and family. Of
this, however, and kindred thoughts he would

not suffer himself to speak, for although Sir
Edward had used no strong persuasion to
induce him to leave Downend during Lvson's
visit to his father, he could but remember that
he did so in accordance with his advice, and
that therefore any allusion to it in a regretful
tone must be very unpleasant to him, and more
especially so now that Edith had fallen ill and
would at the best be confined to the house for
some days to come.

Nor was Sir Edward less deeply impressed
with the seriousness of his surroundings. He
was greatly distressed on hearing the doctor's
opinion of Edith, but remembering the ordeal
she had just passed through, he thought it
possible he might have misinterpreted the
symptoms that had presented themselves to
him. Of that, however, he could not speak,
or of the perplexing thought that followed close
upon it. Was it not possible that if she showed
signs of improvement the doctor might almost
immediately recommend her change of air, and
thus bring about the very difficulty he thought
he had escaped from ; or, on the other hand,
should her illness continue, might not Lyson
repeat the trick he had played off upon his
father, and call at the Hall and demand admittance
to see his divine wife.

And to his fear for Edith's future were added
the wearying thoughts which Jesse's unexpected
report had filled his heart. Look at it from any
point of view he might, he could not avoid
coming to the conclusion that the two children
he had had so long under his protection were
the grandchildren of his late uncle, Sir Henrys
Hare wood. The knowledge of that fact had
made him feel that he stood in a new relation
towards them, however slight in the eyes of the
world their claim upon him might be.

But what must he do if they were put forward
as the legitimate children of the son of the man
from whom he had inherited the property ?
Would he in honour be called upon to resign
all without a struggle ? ' Yes,' he thought, ' let
me be convinced that they are legitimate, and
I will not shrink from my duty.'

And Jesse, did he partake of the serious mood
of his companions ? How could it be otherwise,
when every step he took reminded him of
one who had been so long suffering from a
silence which he had hoped would last but fora
few days. While the constraint he felt he
was under from giving expression to his feeling
respecting the dear letter in his pocket made
him appear very thoughtful.

On one subject there was no lack of common

sympathy. Of their hopes and fears about the
illness of Edith they could freely speak, and
again and again during their walk the exciting
subject was recurred to.

It was very kind of Charlotte,' observed Mr
Cresswell, 'to offer to sit with Edith. It will
be a great relief to my poor wife, who is not
equal to the many duties of a sick-room, and I
know she would not like to see her darling
given over to the care of a stranger.'

It seems very fortunate,' said Jesse, 'that
her sickness has come upon her when she can
have so much friendly attention.'

*Yes,' replied Mr Cresswell,' 'she is much
better off than you were when you were threatened
with fever in Germany.'

That threatened fever,' rejoined Jesse, * must
ever for the future, as an incident above all
others, be remembered with gratitude, since it
brought to my side the man and the information
I had been for so long in vain looking for.
What would have become of me then if he had
not appeared, I cannot imagine.'

And I think it would be unwise, Jesse,' said
his father, ' to attempt to imagine. In a short
time every doubt in connection with your discovery
will, I trust, be set at rest. I have sent
to London for my solicitor to come down to me

VOL. III. N

tomorrow, and I have some hope that Lea will
by that time have so far recovered his senses
as to be able to answer the few questions we
have yet to ask him.'

*I trust he will,' said Mr Cresswell, 'as
his answers are of great consequence to
you.'

Thus conversing, they continued their walk,
Jesse more than once seeking for an excuse to
get away into the wood that he might again
read his letter, and, all unconsciously, sing and
cry and laugh over its contents. He was in
an unreasoning state of suppressed emotion,
and capable, if he were only alone, of yielding
himself up to any extravagance of words or
gesture.

At length the opportunity he was in want of
unexpectedly presented itself. At a turning of
the path in which they were walking they came
suddenly upon Dixon, who stood before them
with the butt end of his gun on the ground and
his hands crossed over the muzzle.

'Why, Dixon,' cried Jesse, 'do you want to
spoil both hands at once, that you have them
so carefully placed for being blown away ? '

It is not loaded, sir,' replied Dixon, changing
his position and stepping aside to let the
gentlemen pass.

Is Smith at home, do you know ? ' asked Sir
Edward.

No, Sir Edward, he is up in the blackwood,
and has just sent for me to come to
him.'

And that is why we found you in such a
hurry to get to him,' said Jesse, in his old,
playful way.

I thought I heard some one across there,
sir, and I stopped to listen.'

Not poachers. I hope, in the middle of the
day.'

I don't know, sir ; but we think they were
here last night.'

Have you found any trace of them ?' asked
Sir Edward.

Mr Smith thinks he has. Sir Edward.'

I wish you would go forward,' said Sir
Edward to Jesse, 'and if you see Smith is not
particularly engaged, tell him to go at once to
his house, where he will find me.'

'Well, Mrs Smith,' he said, as the bustling
little woman opened the door in answer to his
knock, ' we want you to give us houseroom
until your husband returns.'

He will not be home for some time, I think,
Sir Edward.'

I have sent for him,' he replied, ' and as I

know you will be pleased to accommodate us,
we will rest here until he comes.'

They had been but a few minutes In the
house when Jesse and Smith appeared at the
door.

So you have had some poachers troubling
you, I hear,' said Sir Edward.

We thought so this morning, Sir Edward,'
said Smith ; ' but I think it is all a mistake, as
we can find no trace of them.'

How came you to think they had paid you
a visit ? '

We got our Information from an old, lame
man, who has been talking all sorts of nonsense
to some of our people. He told them he had
seen men go into the preserves with bags and
guns, and if they would let him come in with
them he would show them which way they
went'

But they did not take him in with them ? '
said Sir Edward, in a slightly nervous tone.

No,' Sir Edward. ' They understood their
duty too well for that'

Did you see him '^, '

No. When then they told me and I went
to the place he was gone.'

Then you know nothing more about him ? '
Nothing more, Sir Edward, than what my

men told me. They said they met him just
outside the park, in the path that leads across
the fields to Sleaford, and that before he told
them about the poachers he inquired to whom
the park belonged, and what sort of a house it
was of which he could see chimneys over the
trees in the distance ; and whether it was a
large family that lived there ; and whether they
saw many visitors ; and where were their usual
drives and walks about the place. And when
my men thought he was getting too inquisitive
and answered him roughly, he told them about
the poachers.'

He appears to be a stranger,' observed Mr
Cresswell.

I don't know, sir, for my men seemed
to think he knew a great deal about the
neighbourhood, though he did ask them so
many questions. I am sorry I was not with
them.'

You say he was old and lame,' said Jesse ;
but if—'

No matter what he was,' said Sir Edward.
A little extra knowledge of the place will do
us no harm ; but, if he should return, perhaps
you will see him yourself, and then, if you think
it worth your while, you will be able to take a
note or two of his appearance and manners.

But, whatever he may say or do, you will not
of course interfere with him in the public road.
I came to speak to you about the alterations
I was thinking of some time since, but I believe
I shall let the matter rest for the present. Oh,
by-the-bye,' he said, as he was going out, ' if in
your rounds you should see any of the park
fence requires repairing, do not fail to point out
the defect to the bailiff, that it may be attended
to. I have a great dislike to see the fence
going unheeded to decay.'

After they had passed a few steps from the
house, he said to Jesse, —

I have to beg your pardon for breaking in
so suddenly upon your question and depriving
you of his answer. But when I tell you that I
have seen this lame, old man myself, and of an
incident that he was concerned in a short time
since near the park gate, I think you will excuse
me for the interruption.'

I saw that you did not wish me to question
him,' replied Jesse; * but I did not feel that your
interruption was in any way offensive.'

You remember, I have no doubt,' said Sir
Edward to Mr Cresswell, 'the last time we
drove round the country, a lame, old man got in
the way of the horses, and was nearly run over,
or appeared to be so ? '

Yes replied Mr Cresswell, ' and the coachman
was very angry.'

The man the keepers saw last night, I believe,
is the same person.'

Then he cannot be a very great stranger.'

He is no stranger replied Sir Edward ;
but I am grieved to the heart to say who
he is.'

Then why should you, father ? ' interposed
Jesse.

Simply,' replied Sir Edward, * because sooner
or later you must both know, and, although I
have hesitated to speak of it before, I now feel
that the sooner the ordeal is over the better, as
it may save us from playing at cross purposes
with one another.' He then went on to tell
them that in the lame, old man he had recognised
the voice of Maypole Lyson.

Good God ! ' cried Mr Cress well, * what
would have happened had Edith also recognised
him ? '

The poor consolation that she did not is not
left to us,' rejoined Sir Edward sorrowfully, ' as
I feared the moment I heard his voice, and
knew it for a certainty before she left the
carriage.'

She has never given me the slightest hint
of it.'

Neither from that time till to-day has she
to me,' said Sir Edward; 'and I believe she
would not now had I not commenced the subject,
which was forced upon me through my
fear that she was about to leave her present
place of safety, and incur a risk of which you
and Mrs Cresswell had no suspicion.'

For what purpose he has assumed his disguise
I have no means of knowing. It may be
simply to worry you to supply him with money,
or it may be to find an opportunity ci surprising
his wife, and by main force carrying her off
from you. While you are here, I suspect it
will prove rather a difficult task, but, were you
at home or in a strange place, he might find it
comparatively easy. It was to induce Edith to
raise her voice against going that I ventured to
speak to her to-day. I trust what I said to
her on the subject has not brought on her
present illness, but, even if it has, I do not
think I can blame myself for what I have done,
as your leaving me at such a time could only
have been the means of increasing your anxiety
respecting her.'

Your keeping us here,' said Mr Cresswell,
cannot have brought on her illness, as it washer
illness that led my wife to propose a change
of air for her, and my observing her daily increasing

depression and weakness that induced
me to listen to her.'

I shall leave it to your judgment' observed
Sir Edward, ' to decide whether you will communicate
to Mrs Cresswell the facts I have
related to you. I do not see that there can be
any reason for further silence. While Edith is
confined to her room there can be no fear of
her suffering from personal violence, and if she
knows that you and her mother are acquainted
with the event that has so disturbed her, I
should imagine it would have a soothing effect
on her mind.'

I entirely agree with you,' said ]mr Cress-well,
' and I shall take the earliest opportunity
that presents itself to speak to my wife, and
leave her to deal with Edith as she may see
fit.'

I have spoken before you,' said Sir Edward
to Jesse, ' to let you see how full and complete
my confidence is in you, and that you in turn
may rely on me to do in any matter that concerns
you what I believe to be right.'

On their return to the Hall they found the
report from the sick-room was rather cheering
than otherwise. The fever had not increased,
and the patient appeared disposed to sleep.

As the evening closed in, and the doctor's

second visit produced no disquieting rumours,
the fear that had cast a shadow on every
face gradually subsided, and left the inmates
of the Hall to their usual quiet and innocent
amusements.

Jesse strove to be very agreeable and lively
in relating little incidents in his travels to Grace
and Oliver, but it was not without difficulty
that he kept his mind from wandering from
the questions he was, especially by his sister,
expected to answer, as if they were the only
things in the world in which he need be concerned.


Each passing hour in this eventful period of
his life was doing little less than the work of
years on his mind compared with past time.
Had his hair been grey and his eyes dim,
when the hour for retiring to rest came, he
could not have bidden good-night to his father
before going to his bedroom in a more thoughtful
mood than he did on this long-remembered
evening of the day, to him, so full of hope and
doubt and fear.

The reality of the work he had been engaged
in during the last few weeks was now fully
impressed upon his mind. Up to the hour of
his walking home with his father and Mr
Cresswell from the keeper's house, he had had

but a dreamy consciousness of the effect his
discovery would have upon his father's position
in society, should the marriage in question, on
further inquiry, be proved to have been a legal
one.

His mind had been so fully occupied in his
endeavour to discover the parentage of the
children, that anything not immediately connected
with it took scarcely any hold upon his
imagination. His object was plain and simple,
and It engrossed his whole attention. He
did not stop to look to the right or to the
left, or consider any side issue in the question,
while he hurried forward for Its solution.
But now that his work appeared nearly completed,
he felt what its possible effects might
be to his father, and almost regretted that
he had ever moved In the matter ; at a time,
too, when he saw how deeply his father was
concerned in the welfare of his guests. How
great the anxiety their presence occasioned
him, and yet how self-sacrificing he was to
wish to keep them with him, when he might
so easily escape all further trouble and responsibility
on their account by silently acquiescing
in their departure for Wales or
Scotland.

On entering the quiet of his bedroom, and

feeling that he could there indulge undisturbed
in thought, he sat down and drew from his
pocket his much cherished letter. To a stranger
it might have appeared a very simple composition
to be read once and then thrown into the
fire. But it was not so with Jesse. Although
its character was indelibly fixed on his mind,
it was still to be preserved with the utmost
tenderness and care.

That point having been from the first determined
upon, he opened his writing-desk, and
in its most secret recess placed the precious
document. He then fell back in his chair and
gave way to a fit of musing rather than vigorous
thought until near midnight. The appearance
of the old, lame man to the keepers, and
his father's explanation of its probable purpose,
gradually assumed a prominent place in his
mind, and caused him to wish he could devise
some plan by which he could induce Lyson, if
not to leave the country, at least to cease from
his apparent attempt to worry and frighten the
inmates of his father's house.

'If his object is to get money,' he thought,
surely it would be better to let him have it at
once than to suffer months of persecution to be
compelled to come to terms with him, with
no better result than that which may be now

attainable by a little quiet management. I have
heard that every man has his price. I wish I
could meet this man, and hear at what price he
values his absence from England. Why should
I not go over to Downend and see him. If he
is very much in want of money he may receive
me as a friend, and through me open a business
communication with Mr Cresswell.

I cannot imagine why he did not, on reaching
England, come boldly to his father-in-law and
explain his grievance to him, if he had any to
complain of. It is always a puzzle to me why
a man should turn out of the road before him
which would seem to be leading him direct to
the object he has in view, to reach it through a
by-path of trickery and deception. But I have
read of men delighting in such a mode of action,
who have gone absolutely out of their way to
commit a crime for the purpose of bringing
about an event which would give them their
own only an hour or two before it was due.

Some spirit of the kind appears to have taken
possession of the heart of this man Lyson, if he
really has a heart, and is driving him on to
destruction. Where could he find a lady more
amiable than his wife, with parents more kindly
disposed than her father and mother .-^

Could I see him, though I might not be able

to convince him of the extent of his folly, still
I might be able to bring him to a more reasonable
state of mind, and induce him, if by no
other means than appealing to his cupidity, to
free us from his disagreeable presence and the
constant dread there must be, while he is in the
neighbourhood, of the outcome of some disquieting
occurrence.

What should hinder me from getting up early
tomorrow morning and riding over to Down-end
? I need not mention my purpose to my
father or Mr Cress well. I will take care that I
do not in any manner compromise them in what
I say or do. If I find him reasonable I maybe
the means of doing good, and if I do not,,
the trouble I have been at for nought will not
be very great. Yes, I will go. I can be home
again in time for a late breakfast, and unless I
have some good news to bring back no one
need be the wiser for my morning ride.'

daylight the next morning found
Jesse fully resolved on his journey,
and in a few minutes from that time
he was on a good horse, and passing
rapidly over the miles that separated him from
the vicarage at Downend. Arrived at his destination,
he discovered that the inmates of the
house were not early risers. The blinds from
most of the windows had not been raised, and
the maid who appeared at the door in answer
to his summons was obliged to shade her eyes
from the light to which they had not yet become
accustomed.

Neither the vicar nor his daughters she said,
had yet left their rooms, and as for Mr Maypole
Lyson, she did not know anything about him.
He had a latch-key, and was in and out of the
house at all hours night and day, she thought,

for they never knew where to find him when he
was wanted.

I shall stop an hour or two at Downend/
said Jesse, 'and I will call again.'

I think Miss Lyson will be down in a few
minutes said the girl, ' for I hear her about in
her room.'

Having taken his horse to the inn, and seen
that it would be well cared for during his brief
stay, he returned to the vicarage, but to
receive no welcome from Miss Lyson, who
met him at the door, and appeared by her
countenance to have swallowed a glass of
vinegar or some other liquid equally sour and
disagreeable.

I am afraid I have brought you down before
your usual time,' said Jesse.

'No,' replied Miss Lyson ; ' I can assure you
it would have required more of your family than
you to bring me down one moment before it
suited my own convenience to come.'

A little disconcerted by this ungracious salutation,
Jesse stammered out, ' I know I am very
early, but I thought I should perhaps find your
brother down.'

You came to see him, did you ? '

Yes, and to inquire for the vicar.'

Then,' said Miss Lyson, ' I may tell you

and your friends, for their and your information,
that the vicar is very ill in bed through the
constant anxiety from which he has of late been
suffering.'

I am very sorry to hear it,' said Jesse.

You know those who should be much more
sorry.'

May I ask if Mr Lyson is likely to be down
soon ? '

I don't know ; but the girl can go and ask
him.'

In a few seconds the messenger came back
with the information that she thought he was
out or asleep, for he didn't answer.

You should have knocked again,' said Miss
Lyson ; ' but you are so stupid there is no
getting you to understand anything. Go back
and knock till he answers.'

And I wonder when my work is to be done
if I am to be taken off from it to have to run
here and there and nobody knows where,' muttered
the girl, as she dragged her reluctant legs
upstairs again.

But she did her errand very effectually this
time ; and had the door of his room not been
well made of seasoned wood, it would have
gone into pieces under the hard blows she
bestowed upon it. Then, in answer to a gruff

VOL. III. o

inquiry from within, she shouted out at the
top of her voice, —

There's a gentleman at the door as wants
to see you directly ! '

Stupid creature ! ' cried Miss Lyson. ' Why,
you are making noise enough to wake the whole
village ! '

And it wanted a noise to wake him,' said
the girl, as she slipped by her mistress, not
quite certain whether she would not be greeted
with a box on her ear.

'There,' said Miss Lyson, as a bell was
heard to break out into a loud peal, — * now you
have roused the vicar, and a fine nervous time
we shall have of it with him ! I wonder you
are not ashamed of yourself, sir, for coming hereat
this time of the morning and causing so much
confusion. There, you can go into the library,
if you like. I must go to my father. Perhaps
my brother will come to you.'

By the time Jesse was seated in the library
he had begun to think that it would have been
quite as wise in him if he had remained a couple
of hours longer in bed himself, so unpromising
did everything appear around him.

In a few minutes the door was opened, but
instead of Lyson appearing, in walked, with a
stately step and a frowning brow. Miss Dorothy.

She did not condescend to notice Jesse's rising
and politely bowing to her, but sternly intent
on the mission that had brought her there,
said, —

I understand you wish to see my brother.
I have to tell you that he will not be down for
some time.'

I am sorry for that, as I am afraid it will
oblige me to return without seeing him.'

You can leave your message with me, which
will be the same thing.'

I have no message for him.'

Then, in the name of goodness,' exclaimed
Dorothy, * what brought you here ? '

If I were not afraid of giving offence,' replied
Jesse, ' I should be tempted to say a good
horse, but the truth is, I came over on my own
account to see your brother.'

But can you not understand what I mean
when I tell you he will not be down for sometime
? Tell me what you would say to him,
and I will give you his answer

I do not see how you can undertake to do
that,' said Jesse, ' before you know upon what
ground I wish to see him.'

Have you no shame in you ! ' exclaimed
Dorothy ; * that a mere boy like you should take
upon yourself to speak to me in such a manner ?

But it is just like you ; you always were a
little pert, unmannerly boy ; but that is not
very surprising, considering the example you
have constantly set before you at home.'

You are a lady, and I am in your father's
house,' said Jesse, ' and therefore I must bear
patiently with you.'

Bear patiently with me, indeed ! ' cried
Dorothy ; * and you, a mere boy, to talk in
such a way to me — yes, to me, who am old
enough to be your mother ! '

I did not come here to dispute your
age.'

Impudent fellow ! Leave the room, sir ! '

I came to see Mr Lyson.'

Dorothy took a step towards Jesse, with
upraised hands, in a menacing manner, when
the door opened, and Miss Lyson entered,
exclaiming as she did so, —

Dorothy, Dorothy, you must not talk so
loud ! You are driving papa crazy ; you must
be quiet ! '

Quiet !' said Dorothy between her clenched
teeth. ' How can one be quiet when suffering
from the insults of such a boy as that ? '

Has he insulted you ? ' inquired Miss
Lyson.

Yes — grossly,' was the reply. * I told him

our brother would not be down for some time,
and—'

You made a mistake said Lyson, who had
softly entered the room behind her in his 
and slippers. ' Here I am, able to
attend to my own business.'

I only told him,' said Dorothy, ' that if he
had any message for you he might give it tome,
and I — '

And he would not,' cried Lyson, interrupting
her again ; ' and quite right, too,' he added.
How could anything he had to say to me concern
you ? I have not the honour of a personal
acquaintance with the young gentleman, but
I believe I am in the presence of Mr Jesse
Hare wood ? '

I am that person, sir,' said Jesse.

Pray, be seated,' said Lyson.

The sisters seeing or fancvino- that a conversation
of some importance was about to take
place, sat down, with a most determined air, to
help their brother.

Is it not near breakfast - time ? ' asked
Lyson.

Oh dear, no, brother ! ' came from both
sisters.

I should like to have mine as soon as
possible.'

It shall be ready as soon as you are ready
for it said Miss Lyson.

Then I am ready for it now,' said Lyson
angrily.

We are stopping to act as witnesses,
and — '

Rather as simpletons,' retorted Lyson.

Are you mad, brother ? ' said Dorothy.

Not so mad,' said Lyson, ' as you and your
sister are foolish. Will you leave the room, or
shall I take Mr Harewood up to my bedroom .^
How many times am I to tell you that I will
not have you interfere in my affairs ? '

The sisters seeing that he would not be
trifled with, rose from their seats and made for
the door, whispering something rather loudly
to each other that trouble was making their
brother quite another creature, and they were
afraid he would have a fit or lose his senses.

The amiable brother went with them to the
door, and after having seen them safely on the
other side, closed it and turned the key, saying
half aloud as he did so, —

That is the only way of dealing with overcurious
women.' He then returned to Jesse,
and seating himself, said, — ' I was scarcely prepared
for so early a visit'

And I am almost sorry that I made it,'

rejoined Jesse, 'as I appear to have created no
little confusion in the house.'

A mere trifle said Lyson. ' We are used
to that sort of elinor here. Will you let me
know in a few words the object of your visit.
You see I am but half-dressed.'

I was with my father yesterday at the
keeper's house,' said Jesse, going direct to the
point, * when we heard of your being in the
neighbourhood.'

And if I was,' said Lyson, colouring, ' was
not the road as free to me as to others ? '

Certainly, no one will dispute that,' replied
Jesse, ' but from what I heard, I thought you
wished to obtain an interview with some one
at Woodfield.'

And suppose I did ? ' said Lyson moodily.

After returning to my room last night,' replied
Jesse, ' a thought struck me that I would
ride over to Downend and offer my services to
you for any communication you might wish to
open, and here I am ready to undertake the
task.'

You have not been prompted by any one ? '

No, I came simply on my own impulse.'
And you have no message for me ? '

No, nothing of the sort.'

Then you cannot have had much experience

in the ways of the world to undertake such
a task. Have you a proposition to make to me ? '

No,' replied Jesse, ' I came on the supposition
that I might take a message from you,
and save you from going about the country in
disguise to obtain that which I could do for
you at so Httle cost to myself.'

I don't know what you mean by little cost
to yourself. Is your life of so little value to
you ? Do you know that you are in the presence
of a desperate man, who would not hesitate
to put a bullet through an enemy ? '

But I am not an enemy.'

You are living with those who are,' cried
Lyson, struggling in vain to subdue the passion
that was raging in his heart, * and if you want
a message to him from me you shall have it.'

I will be the bearer of no angry messages.'

Then go away, go away ! Why should the
innocent suffer for the guilty ? Do not come
within my reach, or I may think you are your
father, and strike you dead at my feet.'

Has my father, then, so grievously offended
you ? '

Offended me, did you say ? He has ruined
me, body and soul. For years I have, through
his villainy, lived an exile from my country and
friends, and when, after years of absence, I

returned here, resolved on obtaining justice, I
am circumvented, and the man on whom I
chiefly depended has been conjured away by
the arts and open purse, I doubt not, of my
arch-enemy.'

Your words are riddles to me said Jesse.

Then as riddles let them remain,' retorted
Lyson, ' till I am able to say I am revenged.'

May I ask if you are in want of money ? '

Ask a poor man if he is in want of money ! '
said Lyson bitterly. ' Did you ever know a
poor man who was not in want Of money }
Now listen to me. You appear honest and
unskilled in the ways of the world. Take this
message from me to your father. Tell him
that when I came home to see my dying father,
I thought a few days here would serve for that
and another purpose I had in view. That I
expected a friend would come to me and act as
my right hand. He came, but was instantly
conjured away, and I have not seen him since.
Tell him if this friend of mine has been bought
over, as I know he must have been, to see
things in a different light to what he did, if he
is not sent back to me within a week from today
I will take measures to ensure a safe and
quick revenge.'

Is that all you have to say to him ? '

Are you his son, and ask if that is all ? '

You have attached no conditions to your
message

What conditions would you have ? '

Suppose my father is not the bad man you
appear to think he is ? '

But I know he is ! ' exclaimed Lyson.

You must be labouring under some strange
delusion,' said Jesse, ' of which I am so fully
persuaded, that within the week I will take upon
myself the responsibility of undeceiving you.'

And if you fail ? '

At this point their conversation was interrupted
by the maid knocking lustily at the
door, and exclaiming, —

Here's another gentleman wants to see
you, sir':

Tell him to come in,' shouted Lyson in
return. ' Oh ! I see the door is locked,' and
with that he moved towards it to let the gentleman
in.

Ah ! my good friend,' said Circum, who had
just arrived from Bath. * You are taking it
easy this morning, in your dressing-gown and
slippers.'

So utter was the confusion of Lyson at Circum's
sudden appearance, that he completely,
for some seconds, lost the power of speech. He

looked in turn, first at him and then at Jesse,
as if in the expectation of seeing some mark of
recognition pass between them. A deceiver
himself, he looked for deception in others.
Circum's long absence since his sudden and
unexpected departure, had, day by day, been
more difficult for him to bear. He knew full
well that Circum, like himself, was ruled by self-interest,
and he could imagine no other cause
for his long silence, but that he had been bought
off by Sir Edward, and smuggled out of the
country, or hidden in some out-of-the-way place,
until he should be wanted to give evidence
on the opposite side. To discover the truth,
he had assumed his disguise, to enable him to
carry on secretly his inquiries at Woodfield.

Well,' said Circum, after waiting a while fora
reply to his greeting, * am I to consider myself
an unwelcome visitor ? '

What game are you upon now ?' stammered
Lyson. ' Are you here to carry out some further
act of deception ? You look as if you did not
know the gentleman before you.'

Do I ?' said Circum ; ' then there is not much
deception in that. Do you take me for a
rogue ? '

As our business appears settled,' said Jesse,
I will bid you good morning.'

Stop one minute,' said Lyson ; ' I may have
been a little hasty in the opinion I formed of
my friend. I hope I have been so,' and he fixed
his eyes searchingly upon Circum, as he added,
are you as you were ? '

What do you mean ? How else should
I be?'

You are prepared to go on with your work ? '

Yes,' was the brief reply.

When ? '

This instant ; I am here for the purpose.'

Then,' said Lyson to Jesse, ' you need take
no further message from me to your father, than
that he shall hear from me in the course of the
day. This is Mr Jesse Harewood, I may tell
you,' added Lyson, 'as you do not appear to
know him.'

'The youngest son, I believe,' said Circum,
addressing him; 'and to convince my friend that
I am in earnest, I will give you a little information,
which will doubtless prove very interesting
to you, though you may not feel it the personal
matter you would have done had you stood the
next to your father. You do not appear to be
paying much attention to what I am saying.'

There is a little fog between us, I think,'
said Jesse.

You are rather a cool hand for your age '

thought Circum ; but he said aloud, ' If you
will give me your attention for a few seconds,
I will endeavour to remove the fog, as you call
it. You will doubtless be surprised to hear that
your father has, under his own eye, the rightful
heir to the estate that he has so long held in
wrongful possession.'

You are making a bold assertion, sir,'
said Jesse, not a little surprised to hear the
subject that had so earnestly occupied his
attention alluded to in such a manner by a
stranger.

Not more bold than true,' rejoined Circum,
which I will undertake to prove to you very
shortly.'

As I am not the eldest son,' said Jesse,
you must excuse me for not being more
excited by your speech.'

Too young to understand the consequence
of it to you and your whole family .^ '

Perhaps so,' said Jesse, and left the room
without having raised the slightest suspicion
in the minds of the conspirators that he
had been previously acquainted with the
subject.

Have you had any conversation with him
before this morning ? ' asked Circum.

Never a word.'

He is a clever fellow or a great fool,' said
Circum.

Enough of him cried Lyson. ' Tell me
where you have been and what you have been
doing since your strange disappearance. Why
did you not write to me ? You carried away
my letters, and drove me almost mad by leaving
me here ignorant of what you were doing.
Have you been in London all this time ? If
so, where '^. I have written to you at your old
address two or three times, but have had
neither answer from you nor my letters returned
from the dead-letter office.'

I have been to France and to Bath, and
am now with you ready for the fight'

France and Bath ! ' said Lyson ; * I don't
see what business you had at either place.'

I went to France,' rejoined Circum, ' to
see two old friends that we shall find needful
in our cause. They had a little business of
their own on hand, and kept me to help
them.'

But they were not successful,' said Lyson.

No ; they were not.'

Of course they were not. I knew as much.
If they had been, I might have fretted here
for another month while you were enjoying
yourself there with them.'



You are growing suspicious,' said Circum.
You make me so.'

Nonsense. Have I not sworn to be true
to you ? '

Well ; what of your Bath journey ? '

I found the youth difficult to deal with,'
said Circum, ' until I forced him to understand
that I could prove he was the lawful heir to
the title and property. Then he became a
little more tractable, and still more so when I
placed the good name of his mother before
him, and worked him well upon that score. I
told him if he did not care for the title himself,
his mother's and his sister's reputation ought to
be dear to him. That even simple duty would
compel him, for their sakes, to act in a becoming
manner. That he was the grandson of the
late Sir Henry Harewood would undoubtedly
be proved ; but the proof of his legitimacy
would, in a great measure, depend on the
interest he took in the question. I believe I
have secured him.'

But he has been entirely under the influence
of the Woodfield people ; and what
will happen if he should rush back to them in
your absence and seek for their advice ? '

I have provided against that by getting
him to promise that he would not go or write

to Woodfield until he heard from his sister. I
was pleased to see that he did not quite understand
why his sister was sent to London, and
appeared a little nettled that it was done without
his knowledge. I threw out a hint or two
that, perhaps if he pressed her upon the subject,
he would have little reason to be satisfied
with the treatment of her so-called friends.
If I am not mistaken, I have planted a serious
doubt in his mind of the unselfishness of
his Woodfield patron, and which, through his
sister, I shall soon be able to nurse. One
step he may take with her, or seem to take, in
opposition to the will of the great man, will
place him entirely in our hands. We shall
have the choice of supplying him with a solicitor,
and if we do not succeed, it will be our
own fault. And now tell me what you have
done. Have you any witnesses for the proof ? '

My sisters would have overwhelmed me
with proofs if I would have listened to them ;
but I grew sick of the whole matter, and only
thought of revenge.'

A very foolish way of spending your time.'

It chiefly arose from your apparent desertion.'


More foolish still ; but as you said of the
youth who has just left us, enough of that.'

Please, sir,' said the maid, as she opened
the door, ' mistress says breakfast will soon be
ready, and ain't you going to dress yourself ? '

Tell your mistress that I shall have a
gentleman to breakfast with me this morning.'

I don't think there will be butter enough,
sir.'

Do as I bid you,' said Lyson sharply ; ' and
now,' he added to Circum, ' if you will come to
my room, we can save a little time by talking
while I am dressing.'

VOL. III.

N leaving the vicarage Jesse felt that
he had, for the time, only one object
in view, and that was to get home
again as quick as possible, and make
his father acquainted with the state of affairs
as they had just been disclosed to him. He
was utterly confounded with the reception he
had met with from the ladies. Their bitterness
of feeling he could not understand. Insetting
out on his visit he had taken no thought
of them. His business was simply to see
Lyson, and do his best to put an end to the
present unsatisfactory state of things.

If he had once thought of the sisters, it
would only have been to assure himself that
they would have received him as a friend, and
readily worked with him to bring about the
result he desired. He had no confidence in
their judgment ; still, he believed, they were

greatly attached to their brother, and would
do their utmost to assist in any project that
promised to prove beneficial to him But he
had not thought of them, and was in no way
prepared for the reception he met with.

But despite the annoyance they had occasioned
him by their display of temper, he could
not, as he thought of it on his way home, feel
sorry for the apparently uncouth part he had
played, as it had served to bring out more fully
the dominant feelings of their hearts He was
at a loss to understand why they were so angry
with his father. What could he have done
that was so very displeasing to them ? He
could conceive no cause for it but that they
had been simply influenced by their brother to-cherish
the bitterness they evidently did against
him.

And what with respect to Lyson himself, —
what could the cause of his wild and ungovernable
attack upon his father have arisen from ?
Was it only because he had under his roof Mr
and Mrs Cresswell and their daughter, or did
he really believe, as his words seemed to imply,
that he had in secret been acting as his enemy.
That he was suffering from some strange delusion
was very apparent, difficult as it might be
to understand from what it could have arisen.

Whether it was from the effects of drink or the
softening of his brain it seemed equally serious,
and to require immediate attention.

Then the unaccountable appearance of the
stranger, and the evident knowledge he had of
the family history, and especially that part of
it which had of late so fully engrossed his
attention passed before his mind's eye, but he
could come to no conclusion respecting him.
Who he was or where he came from he had,
from what had passed, no means of judging.
Of one thing only could he feel certain, for of
that there could be no doubt. The fact was
as plain as any unacknowledged fact could be,
that the stranger and Lyson were not only old
friends, but that a league existed between them
for the purpose of involving his father in a
world of trouble, if not of final ruin. The only
gleam of comfort he had in his homeward
journey was that, if they carried out their expressed
intention the trial would be quickly
over, and the anxiety about what was to come
in the future would soon be lost in the certainty
of the present.

Come the blow from them as forcible as it
might, it would be better to have its full effect
to deal with at once than to go on in trembling
fear and doubt of the power of men who must

keep one ever on the watch and guard against
their secret machinations. ' Dark, indeed,' he
thought, ' must be the event which can be more
difficult to bear than when in uncertainty — its
shadow frowns upon us out of the unseen
future, through our imagination and dread of its
unknown power. Yes, it is a good thing to
feel that it will be soon over,' thought Jesse, ashe
alighted from his horse at the end of his
journey.

Why, Jesse ! ' cried Oliver, as he met him
at the door, ' have I found you at last ? I
have been looking for you for the last two
hours.'

I have been out for a little exercise.'

Not for a little only, I should think,' rejoined
Oliver, 'by the look of your horse.'

He was fresh, and I let him have his own
way,' said Jesse ; ' but I did not know he was
so warm, as I now see he is. And how goes
on the business of the day with you ? '

I have been out for a run with Grace
through the village,' replied Oliver ; ' she said
she wanted very much to see Nancy set off
Jasper for his day's work, so I took her, and
some fine fun we had, I can tell you. The
first thing we saw was Nancy coming up the
road towards us, and I heard her call out whenever

so far off, ' Oh, sir, have you seen my
husband ? I have lost him. Instead of putting
the horse in the cart, he's gone off gossiping
somewhere, and I won't have it.'

I think I saw him go into Mrs Nash's shop,'
I said.

" Did you, though ! " she cried ; " then I'll
soon have him out again ; " and very soon
there was such a noise in the shop that I
thought something serious would happen. But
it was soon over, and out marched Jasper with
Nancy's hand on his shoulder, as she said,
*' Go away to your work. I won't have you
talking to Miss Nash. You are my husband,
and I am your wife, and you have no business
with anybody else." '

And how did Jasper take it ? '

Oh, that and a great deal more like a lamb.'

Like a donkey, I should rather think,' said
Jesse. He then added, ' Have you seen father
lately ? '

'Yes; he is just gone into the library with
Mr CresswelL'

But have you had your breakfast '^. '

I shall have plenty of time for that,' he
replied, as he hurried away. He had stopped
with Oliver more to cool himself than to listen
to him about Nancy. In a few minutes he was

in the presence of the gentlemen, and recounting
to them his proceedings of the morning.
He was at first taken a Httle aback
by the manner in which his father received
his intelligence.

I am afraid,' he said, when he heard where
his son had been and the object of his going,
I must charge you with rashness for undertaking
such a journey without having even
hinted at your purpose either to me or Mr
Cresswell.'

I did not settle it with myself until near
midnight'

It would have been well,' observed Mr
Cresswell, ' if you had waited to see one or
both of us before you set out this morning ; but
if your usual good fortune has attended you,
we may have no reason to regret that you did
not wait for our opinion of your project.'

Had I gone with the intention of transacting
business without your knowledge I should
feel that I deserved censure, but I merely went
to discover the state of Mr Lyson's mind, and
learn if he had any suggestions he wished to
have conveyed to you without the formality of
putting them on paper.'

There could be no great harm in that,' said
Mr Cresswell.

Sir Edward remained silent, but his countenance
gave no evidence that he was satisfied
until he had listened to all that had taken
place, and in the end received an account of
the message that had first been sent to him.
Then the frown passed from his brow, and a
smile of satisfaction appeared on his lips.

Whether it is your good fortune or your
judgment that has been your guide, Jesse,' he
said, ' we will not stop to inquire ; but there is
no denying the fact that you have done us good
service in discovering what is about to happen
some two or three hours before the event can
come upon us.'

This appearance of the stranger with his
knowledge of your family is most extraordinary,'
observed Mr Cress well ; ' but until we know
something more of him and the ground upon
which he rests to enforce his threats, we cannot
form a correct opinion of his power. Of
Lyson's desire for revenge on account of some
imaginary wrong you have done him I take
little heed. It seems to have proceeded from
a heated brain, arising from drink or ungovernable
passion.'

I do not fear any injury he can do me,' said
Sir Edward, * though it is unpleasant to have to
deal with such a man. The presence of Mr

Sims, my solicitor, here to-day, will go far, without
loss of time, to let us understand our real
position.'

Yes,' observed Mr Cress well, ' however much
we might, through our ignorance of the law, be
perplexed by their threats, he will be free from
anything of the kind, and will soon discover —
what I believe the truth will prove — that they
have entered into a conspiracy against us to
extort money.'

What we should have done,' remarked Sir
Edward, 'without the information Jesse brought
us from Germany, I cannot conceive. What
would have given us months, and perhaps
years, to trace out, we have now before us in
full ; and we can have now no reason to oppose
any claim they may make in the children's interest,
further than what relates to the legality
of the marriage in question. If they fail in the
proof of that, their contention with me must end.'

As you do not censure me for my morning's
work,' said Jesse, ' I will leave you now, as
Oliver is a little anxious about my breakfast.'

Not had your breakfast yet ! ' said Mr
Cresswell. ' Then, if you do not disappear
this instant to get it, I shall take the liberty
of quickening your movement by the aid ot
my walking-stick.'

Thank you,' said Jesse, with one of his
old laughs, ' but I will not trouble you to
rise

The conversation between the two gentlemen
did not cease with the departure of Jesse. The
information they had received from him, reviewed
under different aspects, gave full scope
for their imaginations to feed upon. Who, or
from whence, came the stranger ? What did
he really know of the matter of which he declared
himself to be so well informed ? What
was the connection between him and Lyson ?
with many other like questions, rose to their
lips, but were obliged to be left unanswered.

About mid-day Circum presented himself at
the front door of the Hall, and inquired if Sir
Edward Harewood was at home.

The servant who answered the door was not
one amongst the number of those who had seen
him on his former visit to the old steward, and
therefore there was no awkward recognition
between them to take place. A simple, * Yes,
sir,' was the reply.

Circum having made a little unnecessary display
with his card-case, drew out a card and
gave it to the man, as he said, —

Have the goodness to take that to Sir
Edward, and say that the gentleman who promised

to pa)- him a vast from Downend would
be glad to speak with him.'

Mr Cresswell had left the room a few minutes
before to go to his daughter, and Sir Edward
was not sorry that it was so, as he felt he could
get a firmer grasp of the subject with the stranger
alone than in the presence of a third person, who
might, by some inadvertent question, divert his
mind from the real point at issue.

Show the gentleman in,' he said, as he
glanced at the card the servant had placed in
his hand.

Jesse had made no allusion to the personal
appearance of the stranger, and Sir Edward
was not a little surprised that, instead of finding
a rough uncultivated man, as his message
would seem to imply, enter the room, he saw a
calm-featured, gentlemanly-looking old man,
very carefully dressed, with his hair and beard
white with age.

Sir Edward involuntarily rose to receive him,
and then, pointing to a chair, said, — ' Pray, be
seated,' as he resumed his former position.

A favourable first impression,' thought Circum,
' is half the battle,' as he seated himself
with a smile on his lips, and said in his blandest
tones, — ' Thank you, Sir Edward.'

You have called upon me,' said Sir Edward,

on what, I suppose, must prove an unpleasant
business, at least to one of us.'

'Rather say both,' rejoined Circum, 'for in
truth this sort of thing always gives me pain
when I read of it in the public papers ; therefore
it is unnecessary that I should attempt to
tell you that it must be painful indeed to me to
be called upon to take an active part in such a
proceeding.'

I shall be glad,' said Sir Edward, a little
impatiently, ' if you will plainly, and in as few
words as possible, make me acquainted with
the object of your visit.'

I shall very readily comply with your request.
Sir Edward, as I take a little pride to
myself for being a plain man and of few words.
When I had the honour of seeing your son this
morning, that I might not surprise you with an
unexpected visit, I begged him to inform you
of my coming.'

And he did so.'

He appeared to me,' continued Circum, *to
be a young gentleman of very excellent parts ;
but I was sorry to find, after he had left the
vicarage, that he and my friend Lyson, during
a part of their conversation, had had the misfortune
to misunderstand each other. Now,
before I proceed with the subject that brought

me here, I must confess that my friend is at
times a Httle excitable. He told me he vas
afraid he lost his temper this morning while
under the impression that he had been injured.
In his name, permit me, Sir Edward, to withdraw
any expression that was in the least degree
offensive to your son, and to add that he
is sorry that he spoke while under the influence
of anger.'

Will you proceed to business, sir ? ' said Sir
Edward.

Yes, I will, Sir Edward ; for, sorry as I am
to invade your quiet, I must do my duty, — of
course you will understand that I refer to these
two children who have been from their infancy
under your protection. At present I think I
need not enter into an elaborate explanation of
the reason of your being so long left undisturbed
in the possession of this noble estate. It will
doubtless suffice to satisfy you, when I tell you
I am the oldest representative of the family of
the mother of the boy whose claim I am hereto
warn you I intend to set up in opposition to
yours. I will tell you in a few words why this
has not been done before. To within the last
six months I had an elder brother who was of
a dull, languid temperament, and who paid little
attention to his duty when it lay in the rough

path of life, or would take him from his easy-chair.
His death has thrown this burden upon
me, and I dare not follow his example. That
which should have been done by him has become
my work, and, disagreeable as the task is,
I must not attempt to shun it ; and, therefore,
I am here to assert Edmund Montag's claim to
this grand property ! '

It is easy to make the assertion,' said Sir
Edward ; ' but I think you will find it a difficult
matter to prove that he is related to my family
by any other tie than that which my protection
has afforded him.'

His mother was your cousin's wife '^ '

You will assert that'

Yes, and prove it too,' replied Circum.

Then you have the proof in your hands ? '
'Yes, step by step 1 have worked upon it

until it has brought me to your door.'

Have you your papers with you ? ' asked

Sir Edward.

No, my solicitor has them in London. This
visit, I may tell you, I wish you to regard as
only preliminary. I am not naturally, as you
must by this time have observed, a hard man,
and as you have been very kind to the children,
I am disposed, although I have placed the
papers in the hands of my solicitor, to treat it

as a family question, and thus avoid the expense
and worry of Litigation.'

You appear to have taken a very sensible
view of the question,' said Sir Edward, ' and I
am disposed to do the same myself, but as I
seldom act in any matter without the advice of
my solicitor, you must give me a little time
before I ask you for your proposal.'

'I beg to warn you,' said Circum, 'of
what you may be called upon to do under
the advice of your solicitor, unless you are
prepared to carry it out to the bitter end.
My solicitor is so satisfied with the justice of
the young man's claim, that he is eager we
should commence our suit without a moment's
delay.'

• Am I to understand that this is all you
wish to say ? ' asked Sir Edward.

Yes ; but I must beg you to bear in mind
that no time is to be lost.'

There shall be no unnecessary delay on my
part,' said Sir Edward, as he rose from his chair
to ring the bell.

One moment, if you please,' said Circum,
still remaining seated. Sir Edward resumed
his seat with an impatient gesture, and the
speaker continued. ' If the subject upon which
we have been speaking has been painful to me.

doubly so is another, which at the request of
my friend Lyson, I have undertaken to perform
for him.'

Sir,' rejoined Sir Edward, ' I can receive
no communication through you from him. I
apprehend there is sufficient paper in the vicarage
for his purpose if he has any proposition
to make to me.'

There are some subjects,' said Circum, ' that
gentlemen do not like to commit to paper, unless
they are in love, or something of that sort.
Pray, do not touch the bell until you have
heard me, or you may have reason to regret
your impatience.'

I do not understand you, sir,' said Sir
Edward sternly.

I am a man of peace as well as of few
words,' said Circum ; ' and I would gladly
offer my services as a mutual friend to avoid
a great scandal. If you treat my advice with
contumely, do not, when it is too late, say I
was not plain with you.'

I am not aware, sir,' said Sir Edward
proudly, * that I have any want of the services
of a mutual friend, and certainly not of your
friend's choosing.'

You mistake me. Sir Edward ; I am not
of his choosing. I offer my services to you

both, for the sake of peace. Strange,' he said
half to himself, ' that men cannot see facts
affection their own characters as others see
them.'

What facts would you have me see ? ' said
Sir Edward hastily.

'You are, permit me to say,' replied Circum,
under the influence of anger ; and therefore I
feel I ought not to press you further.'

Speak out, man, if you have anything you
wish to say,' cried Sir Edward, ' and then
leave the room, for I will not answer you
again.'

You ask what fact I would have you see,
said Circum ; * I answer the simple one that
you are now keeping in your house my friend's
wife, for what purpose you best know, though
you cannot see how far the law will hold you
blameless until the case is brought into court.
You may be very innocent, but — '

Leave the room, sir !' exclaimed Sir Edward,
as he gave the bell-pull a violent jerk.

I was eoinof to observe,' said Circum, * that
proofs would not be wanting, and that I have,
in your own handwriting, expressions of your
passionate love for the lady.'

It is false ! ' cried Sir Edward; ' I have never
written a word of the sort or kind to her.'

VOL. III. Q

Will you say of her ? ' asked Circum in a
cold, passionless tone.

Here the servant appeared at the door, and
Sir Edward, undecided what course to adopt,
seeing his unwelcome visitor remained firmly
fixed in his chair, said, —

I rang, but I do not want you now
'Wisely spoken,' murmured Circum, loud

enough to be heard when the servant had
closed the door. * And now, perhaps you will
allow me to say, before I willingly take my
departure, one or two words respecting the
letters, the hinting at which so greatly excited
you when your hand was on the bell-pull.
They were written, I may remind you, many
years since, of one who was, at the time,
virtually your friend's wife. Why he has not
spoken or written to you since you may not
be able to conceive the reason, but I believe
others will when the case comes before the
public. What ! have I touched your self-interest
? I see you would not like the letters
to go before the curious eyes of the public'

I do not care for the eyes of the public,'
said Sir Edward ; ' but there are reasons which
make me feel, if such letters are extant, they
should be destroyed.'

I thought as much,' retorted Circum. ' Then

let me assure you that they are extant ; and
since you have rejected my friendly advances,
they must fall into hands which will deal less
scrupulously with them than I would have
done.'

*Are they for sale?' asked Sir Edward.

'You have rejected my services replied
Circum, ' and now I wipe my hands clean of
the whole affair. But I will say this much, I
will send your question to my friend, and if,
in your cooler moments, you remember something
you have neglected to say, you may hear
of me at the carrier's house in the village,
where I am staying for a few days. Good
morning, Sir Edward, I will not trouble you
to ring for the servant, I can let myself out,'
and without another word, he was suffered to
depart. As soon as he was gone, Sir Edward
took two or three hasty turns up and down
the room, then threw himself into a chair, and
pressing his hand to his eyes, one of the most
important scenes of his early life he lived over
again. How painful the scene was to him
might possibly be imagined by one if he had
listened to the stifled sobs, and seen the upheaving
of his shoulders as he leaned forward
on the table before him.

Wretched man ! ' he murmured ; ' did I deserve

this ? Was it not enough to strike me
then to the heart, but you must now torment
me by tearing open the wound afresh. Have
I striven so long to hide other than a brother's
love for Edith from all eyes, now to have it
flaunted openly before the public. What would
I o-ive if I had never trusted that man — never
written those confiding letters which he so
cunningly drew from me at the time of his
falsehood to blind me to his work, and now to
curse me with its remembrance.

What can I do ? Whom can I trust to negotiate
for the letters that contain the secret of
my life ? No one ; and, hateful as the task is,
I must undertake it for myself, or suffer in
default. I dare not let the witness of my love
for Edith go abroad, as it would condemn me
to perpetual banishment from her presence.
How could she meet me and speak to me in
her old way with the awakened consciousness
that I had desired to be something more to her
than a brother ? Must she not shun me as her
direst foe, lest I should tempt her from the indulgence
of sinful thoughts to sinful deeds ?

Yes, hateful as the task will be, I must see
that man again, and at all cost obtain the letters.
Once they are reduced to ashes, I will not fear
the tongue of scandal. It may touch my temper,

but nothing more. Who the man is that Lyson
has called to his aid signifies but little. He
may or he may not be the person he represents
himself. To imagine that he came to me to
perform a simple act of kindness as to a friend
would be extreme folly. He a man of peace !
Foolish old man, to think I could so easily be
imposed upon.'

How much longer this communing with himself
might have continued it is not easy to
surmise. It was interrupted by Mr Cresswelh
who, having spent some time with his wife and
Edith, returned to the library.

Well.' he said, on entering, ' so you have
had your promised visitor. I would fain say I
hope the interview has proved satisfactory, but,
judging from the expression of your face, I dare
not indulge the hope.'

Let us take a turn in the open air,' said Sir
Edward. ' This room is insufferably hot.'

^tWt

Shortly after luncheon, which had
been a very formal affair to all but
Oliver and Grace, the anxiously-expected
Mr Sims, Sir Edward's
solicitor, arrived from London. He was a
middle-aged man, with a firm-set lip and an eye
that appeared ever on the watch to pierce the
disguise of any sham that came before him. No
time was lost after his arrival before he was
seated in the library with Sir Edward, Mr
Cresswell, and Jesse.

The first thing to be done was to make him
acquainted with Jesse's discovery of the parentage
of Edmund and Lizzie Montag. He
listened attentively to Jesse's report, put in a
question here and there, but abstained from any
general remark until it was finished. He then
gave it as his opinion^that the case might have
proved very serious if the investigation had

been the work of an enemy, concluding with, —
The question of the legality of the marriage
is no concern of yours as long as it is not
attempted to be proved by others.'

But we are threatened with the attempt,'
said Sir Edward. And he then gave a brief
report of that part of his conversation with
Circum which related to the property.

The tone of satisfaction which had pervaded
the face of Mr Sims gradually disappeared ashe
listened to the additional account.

This is a new feature in the case,' he said,
when it was finished, 'and one Mr Jesse's report
did not prepare me for. It appears I gave him
credit for having acted with more caution than
I now learn he did. How could you,' he said
to Jesse, ' have suffered such a matter as this to
have passed from your lips to the ears of a
stranger ? '

I have not done so said Jesse firmly.

It will be a very strange coincidence,' said
Mr Sims, * if his information and yours, which
are in all essentials alike, should have been
derived from sources independent of one
another.'

I am perfectly satisfied they come from
different sources,' said Jesse ; * but how, I cannot
tell

*You had no clever companion in your
journey ? '

No ; and I did not go into the matter with
any one besides the gentlemen I have named,
and I cannot imagine that either of them played
me false.'

It is well said Mr Sims, 'that we have the
whole question in so small a compass. You
must see your visitor of this morning again, and
discover who and what he is, and if possible, by
some indirect means, how far his relationship to
the children is based on truth.'

I would rather,' rejoined Sir Edward, ' dare
him on the instant to produce his proofs that he is
the person he professes himself to be. I do not
see what I can gain by going indirectly to work.
If the youth I have looked upon as an unknown
orphan is indeed the legal offspring of my late
uncle, though he at the time of his death was,
I am persuaded, unacquainted with the fact, I
shall not want the law to force me to yield up
my fancied rights to him.'

That sort of thing would do all very well ina
romantic story,' said Mr Sims, ' but we have
in this case to deal with realities which must
not be trifled with. Whether his statement is
true or false, you must not too readily treat him
as an enemy. Though in the end he may fail

to establish his claim, still out of pure mischief,
if not for the chance of success, he can run you
to a ruinous expense, so that your winning or
losing your suit would become comparatively a
matter of indifference.'

You are here in answer to my call for advice,'
said Sir Edward, ' and I should but ill requite
your attention by showing a disposition to
dispute the correctness of your views. May I
ask you, then, to take the management of the
whole affair into your own hands and treat it as
your own ? '

If it were indeed my own,' said Mr Sims, ' I
should by all the means in my power bring it
to a close as quickly as possible. Where is the
stranger now to be found ? '

At his lodgings in the village, I presume,'
replied Sir Edward. 'Will you go there alone
to him, or shall I send for him to meet us here ? '

I think I would prefer seeing him alone
first. He is lodging, he told me, at the carriers
in the village.'

Will you have some one to go with you to

show you the house ? '

Thank you, no — I will go alone.'

He left anxious hearts behind him, while he,

cool and collected, passed through the village to

the place of his destination.

It was not by accident that he found the
stranger at home. The clever old man had
left Sir Edward under the impression that he
should soon be wanted again, and now, after
having had a good long gossip with Nancy, he
was quietly awaiting the summons.

Yes, he is at home, sir said Nancy, in
answer to Mr Sims, ' but I don't think he can
see you indoors, because he said he would soon
be going out.'

Tell him a gentleman from the Hall will be
glad to speak to him.'

Yes, sir, that I will ; and then he can do ashe
likes, can't he ?'

Without waiting for an answer she disappeared,
but quickly returning said, — ' Yes,
sir, it is all right, you can go in.'

Circum flushed up a little when Mr Sims
entered his room. He had expected to see Sir
Edward, or his son, but he received his visitor
very graciously, and having begged him to be
seated, awaited in his own quiet manner for
what was to come.

I suppose,' said Mr Sims, ' that we are both
men of the world, and therefore I shall use
little prelude to the business that has brought
me here. I have come as the friend of Sir
Edward Harewood, to have a few words with

2^1

you upon the subject, of the orphan children,
you brought before him this morning.'

You are his legal adviser, I presume,' said
Circum ; * and have been summoned from town
by telegram ? '

I am Sir Edward's legal adviser,' said Mr
Sims, ' but you are wrong in supposing I have
been hastily summoned by telegram to confer
with you. I was invited to the Hall by letter
yesterday.'

Then,' replied Circum, ' a lucky chance
appears to have brought you here at a
ver)^ convenient time for Sir Edward Hare-wood.'


Perhaps so,' said Mr Sims.

You have some communication to make
to me.'

Yes,' replied Mr Sims, ' if you will first
permit me to ask you a few questions respecting
the communication you made to Sir Edward
this morning.'

Truth does not require to be guarded by
equivocation or disguise,' replied Circum. * If
you will speak plainly, I weill listen to your
questions, and answer them immediately

You say you are the eldest living branch of
a certain family ?'

Yes.'

And that you can prove It to the satisfaction
of any unprejudiced mind ? '

Yes.'

Can you oblige me with the nature of this
proof ? '

I do not see said Circum, ' how you can
honestly make such a request at this point of our
proceeding ; but, fearless as I am of not being
able to satisfy you, my answer is, I can have
two affidavits sworn to by gentlemen in France,
and to come still closer to the question, I have
the dim recollection of Miss Montag herself, of
her having seen me in her childhood, as the
acknowledged brother of her mother, and the
certain fact that, at a critical period of my life,
I was well-known in Germany to Sir Edward's
late steward.'

That is coming near the point, indeed,' said
Mr Sims ; ' and you made Sir Edward acquainted
with these facts this morning ? '

No ; but I would have done so if he had
not so impatiently listened to me.'

And you can prove that the marriage of the
son of the late Sir Henry Hare wood was legally
performed ? '

I can,' replied Circum, ' for I was present
myself as a witness.'

As your answers,' said Mr Sims, ' appear

-0 J

clear and unstudied, I will now give you Sir
Edward's message. He bid me say that, on
your request, he will render you every assistance
in his power to have the case brought
before the court, and decided.'

But is he aware of the expense of such a
process ? '

What other course can he adopt ? '

Can he not, as I said to him this morning,
arrange the affair privately, and so save the
expense of a long and wearisome public trial ?'

I will report your proposal ; but I cannot
say I will advise my client to close with it.'

I scarcely supposed you would,' remarked
Circum. ' You lawyers, of course, like to seethe
law courts fully employed.'

That is a little hard upon us,' said Mr Sims,
looking straight into the eyes of Circum, as if
he would pierce through them into the inmost
recesses of his brain ; ' but he had to deal with
one equally cool and watchful as himself, and
therefore gained no more knowledge of what
was passing within, than he would have done
from the most vacant and unmeaning stare.

I am returning to London tomorrow,' said
Circum ; ' but perhaps you will kindly say to Sir
Edward that I shall stop in the house for the
remainder of the day, and that if he will call

upon me with his son, I shall be happy to speak
to him upon another subject, on which I slightly-touched
this morning. You need not look suspiciously
at me, for I can assure you the business
I would speak to him upon does not bear in the
slightest degree any relation to the matter we
have been discussing, and now I suppose I may
say good-bye, as I am not likely to have a call
from you again for some time ? '

No,' said Mr Sims, * for the future I will
confer with you through your solicitor, if you
will oblige me with his address.'

There will be time enough for that,' said
Circum, ' when all hope of a private accommodation
has passed away for the present on
account of the children, I will not incur the
responsibility of appealing to the law to do
what may so much more inexpensive be done
in a Christian spirit at a friendly meeting of all
persons interested in the question.'

It is for you to decide whether you will or
will not commence an action. My client stands
upon firm ground, if you remain inactive.'

Yes, I am aware of that. Good morning,
sir.'

A man not to be trifled with,' murmured
Circum, as the door closed upon his visitor.
We shall have a tough fight before it is over,

and if we break down it will be for want of the
sinews of war. I must let Lyson's letters goat
any reasonable figure, with or without his
consent. We must have money for our great
enterprise

The manner of Mr Sims, on his return to the
Hall, was not very reassuring. He felt that,
in Circum, he had to deal with a man evidently
well acquainted with the subject he had taken
in hand ; and, as he thought, resolved to turn
it to account for his own advantage. He did
not absolutely advise Sir Edward to come to
terms with the stranger, but the whole tone of
his remarks pointed in that direction, as he
spoke of the danger of drifting into a ruinous lawsuit,
the uncertainty of which no one could tell.'

Do you incline to believe,' asked Sir Edward,
'after all you have heard, that the children
were lawfully begotten ? '

No, I do not,' replied Mr Sims ; ' but my
view of the case and that of twelve jurymen
may be widely different.'

If he can satisfy me of the justice of his
claim, I am prepared to give up every acre
I possess without further question.'

I honour your motive,' said Mr Sims ; * but
you must not expect me to approve of any
hasty action on your part.'

I am content,' said Sir Edward, ' to appear
a little singular. And now, with respect to
the other matter to which he alluded, I daresay
I shall surprise you when I tell you I have
made up my mind to go to him immediately.'

Not alone, I trust ? ' said Mr Sims.

Yes, alone,' replied Sir Edward ; '' but I
promise you not a word shall pass my lips
upon the subject I have placed in your hands.
Shall I find you here on my return ? '

'I must be in London to-night,' replied Mr
Sims, * but I will wait to see you again. Perhaps,
while you are away, Jesse will take me
to see your late old servant. If he can, or will
answer one or two questions satisfactorily, I
shall see my way more clearly than I confess
I do at present. Then there is the supposed
heir I should like to see ; but you say he is
at Bath ; I think you said you had his sister
with you ? '

No,' replied Sir Edward, ' she is in London.'
With whom, may I ask ? '

With a trustworthy old servant.'

She must not be left there with a servant.
It is possible this man Circum has met with
her in London.'

Possible, but not very probable,' said Sir
Edward.

He spoke of her to me as an important
link in the chain of his evidence, and he must
have been in correspondence with her by some
means, unless his statement respecting her is
altogether fictitious. She must not be left there,
however faithful the old servant may be.'

'We will speak of her on my return,' said
Sir Edward ; * I must leave you now for a while
with Jesse.'

And Mr Jesse will take me to the old
steward.'

I shall be happy to do so,' said Jesse, 'but
I am afraid you will find him an unprofitable
subject.'

You told me you were a man of few words,'
said Sir Edward, on being introduced to Circum.
' I am here to prove you. You also
told me you had seen certain letters which I
wrote a long time since, and — '

I beg your pardon. Sir Edward ; I told you
I had them in my possession.'

Have you them here ? '

I have.'

They are of no use to you.'

But they are very curious.'

But of no value to you.'

But they are to a certain friend of mine.'

Will you part with them ? '

VOL. III. R

Without his consent, surely you would not
ask me to do that ? '

You did not steal them from him ? '

No ; why do you ask such a question ? *

Because, if you did not, I conclude he entrusted
them with you for you to do the best
you could with them.'

'Just so,' said Circum.

Then they have their price ? '
Yes.'

I will buy them.'

It must be from a liberal offer.'

Is their price fixed } '

No ; I am waiting for your offer. They
should be very valuable to you.'

Will a cheque for fifty pounds suffice } '

What ! ' said Circum, ' five such interesting
and very loving letters for fifty pounds. No,
Sir Edward, nor five times fifty.'

In God's name,' cried Sir Edward, Met
me know their price and have done with

strive

letters,' said Circum slowly, * they must
to you be cheap at a hundred pounds a-piece.
Well, then, let us say for the lot five hundred
pounds. Will you have them ? '

Let me see them said Sir Edward.
Circum eyed his visitor for a brief space.

then deliberately unlocked his bag and produced
the letters, observing as he did so, —

You are younger and stronger than I am,
but you see, Sir Edward, I am not afraid of
trusting myself and my fortune in your hands.'

Sir Edward, being satisfied that they were
the letters he desired to see reduced to ashes,
drew from his pocket his cheque-book, and
filled up a cheque for the sum required. Then,
with inexpressible satisfaction, committed the
letters to the flames.

Circum, as he carefully put away the cheque
in his pocket-book, looked at the destruction
going on in the grate as a matter that did not
in the least concern him. When he saw his
visitor about to leave the room, he said, —

I suppose I am to understand the more
serious business we spoke about this morning
is not at present to be proceeded with ? '

I have placed it in the hands of my solicitor,*
replied Sir Edward as he left the room.

'And you will be fortunate,' said Circum,
if you get through that business as cheaply
and easily as you have through this.'

Sir Edward returned to his friends at the
Hall a free man, and it was not without difficulty
that he could keep quiet to listen calmly
to the report Mr Sims had to give him of his

interview with the old steward. He had learnt
nothing from him worth repeating.

The poor old fellow he said, ' seemed quite
worn out and incapable of understanding the
simplest question ; and therefore anything he
might say in his present state would have no
weight in a court of justice. Now, if you can
secure the young gentleman at Bath, and the
young lady in London, you will, I suspect, very
much reduce the power of the enemy.'

While he was speaking a servant entered
the room with a letter.

For me,' said Jesse as it was presented to
him. Having glanced at the address, he was
about to put it in his pocket when, seeing all
eyes were fixed on Mr Sims, he ventured to
open it. Before the speakers remarks could
be replied to, Jesse suddenly exclaimed, — ' I
have surely another surprise for you all ! This
is from Miss Montag, and here she says she
has had an old gentleman to see her who has
told her who she is, and who wanted her to
sign a paper, and I don't know what besides,
before he left her to go to Bath to see her
brother.*

When the commotion called forth by Jesse's
exclamation had abated, and the old story reconsidered
under the new light the letter threw

upon it, the time had arrived for Mr Sims to
set out on his return to London. He took
with him a note from Sir Edward to Mrs
Wilkins, and another from Jesse to Miss Montag,
with a commission to take the young lady-home
to his family in Russell Square, and there
await a telegram from Sir Edward to learn
what further steps he desired should be taken
for her safety.

Before Mr Sims left, Sir Edward took him
aside and gave him, in a few brief words, the
reasons that had induced him to send, or rather
to take, Miss Montag to London, and of having
since given the young people permission to correspond
with each other. That explanation
enabled Mr Sims, on reaching London, to avoid
much awkwardness which he might otherwise
have had to encounter.

The possession of the cheque for five hundred
pounds induced Circum to change the
course of action he had previously marked out
for himself to take. He had now two objects
to induce him to go to London without loss of
time — one was to get his cheque turned into
gold, and the other to complete his ascendency
over the mind of Miss Montag, and induce her
privately to leave Mrs Wilkins for a house
more suitable to her prospects.

'It is a great bore,' he thought, * that I
cannot set off direct for London without going
miles out of my way to see Lyson. He is so
jealous of my movements, that I must see him,
and tell him of our good fortune. If I were to
write and say I was going to London, he would
again grow curious to know why; and if I were
to add it was to see the girl, and get the cheque
changed, it would only make the matter worse,
so I must perforce go to him.'

As his pockets would now so soon be bountifully
furnished, the expense of the journey was
not so much regarded. It was more question
of time than money, so he hired a trap, and
leaving word at his lodging that perhaps he
would not be back to-night, set off for Down-end,
with Nancy's voice ringing in his ears,
that his room would be ready for him whenever
he liked to come. Since the visit to him
of Sir Edward, he had mounted up in her
estimation she could not tell how high.

Arrived at the vicarage at Downend, Circum
was received, if not with open arms, by the
sisters at least with the outward expression of
a pleasant welcome. From them he learnt that
their brother had gone down to the river with
his rod and line, and that he would no doubt
remain there for an hour or two longer.

I will go to him to save time,' said
Circum, * as I must, if possible, be in London
to-night.'

'Brother told us,' said Miss Lyson, 'after
you left us yesterday, that he expected you
would send for him to come to you at Wood-field.'


And I may have occasion to do so in the
course of a day or two ; but I must be in
London to-night, and there is a chance of my
being kept there the whole day tomorrow, so,
to prevent mistakes, I thought I would drive
round here and see him to-night.'

On approaching the river, Circum saw Lyson
at his old favourite place on the projecting rock
at the bend of its course.

Why,' he cried, ' you will become an expert
at your business if you go on at this rate. You
appear to spend all your time here. I suppose
you find your occupation amusing ? '

Do you ? ' said Lyson ; ' then I can tell you
it is only for want of something better to do
that I am here, while you are enjoying yourself
driving about the country. I thought you said
you would stop at Woodfield to-night, and send
for me to come to you. Have you come yourself
to fetch me ? '

No ; not to-night.'

Then, have you come to tell me that you
have brought that fellow to his knees ? '

He is pretty nearly down. I have warned
him of the coming change in his fortune, and
at the same time have obtained from him the
sinews of war to enable us to take a more
deadly and surer aim at our game.'

If you would be at the trouble of speaking
plain English, one might hope to understand
you. Will he respond to the charge I mean to
make against him ? '

I think he will.'

Then we shall have him at last.'

You may demand your wife ; but I cannot
hear of any evidence at Woodfield that will
condemn her.'

Then you have been playing the fool with
me, and not gone the right way to work to getup
the evidence ? '

And have you been more fortunate ? '

You told me you would insure me a thousand
pounds damages if I would entrust the
letters to you.*

Not so much as that, I think.'

I swear you did

' Then I have been obliged to take less ; but
I have saved you a world of trouble

What do you mean ? Where are the letters V

I have sold them for five hundred pounds.'

Where is the money ? '

It is a cheque, which I must change in
London for gold.'

Show it me. To whom is it made payable
? '

To E. Circum or bearer.'

Give it me. It is mine.'

Not quite so fast,' said Circum, endeavouring
to put it hastily back into his pocketbook.


To prevent his doing so, Lyson struck the
book from his hand, and forgetful of the spot
upon which they were standing, grasped the
arm of Circum, who still held the cheque between
his finger and thumb. A momentary
struggle ensued. They approached the edge
of the rock, when a portion of it gave way
beneath their feet, and they fell struggling
together into the deep stream below. There
was a splashing noise in the water for two or
three minutes, and a faint cry for help. Then
all was still, and the current resumed its usual
quiet course.

The cheque about which the contention had
arisen having escaped from the fingers of the
dying man, rose to the surface and went gaily
down the river, until it was caught in the roots

of a tree, and then, having been washed bit by
bit to pieces, passed as useless away. The
float, after a violent shaking, resumed its former
quiet, while the two inanimate bodies lay
stark and still at the bottom of the pool.

m3

EITHER the struggle in the water
nor the faint cry for help was heard
by any mortal ear ; and as the secluded
spot Lyson had chosen for
his amusement was out of the track of the
country people, it was not till late the next
morning that the discovery was made of what
had taken place.

Lyson not returning at his usual time to the
vicarage, excited at first only the curiosity of
his sisters. That, however, soon gave way to
alarm. When the sun was just on the point of
sinking beneath the western horizon they left
the house and hastened towards the river, but
it was scarcely with the hope of finding their
brother there.

An undefinable sensation of fear that the
stranger, from some cause which it would be
in vain for them to attempt to conjecture, had

induced him to leave his home. During the
last few days he had been very restless, going-out
and coming in at very unseasonable hours,
and, in their opinion, taking more exciting
drink than was good for him. He had spoken,
too, of expecting a gentleman from London to
see him, and often grew impatient and angry
at his non-appearance, and wearied with the
monotony of his country life.

I do trust our brother has not again fallen a
prey to a false friend, and been obliged to leave
us without^notice of his going,' said Miss Lyson,
as they hurried on their way towards the river.

On reaching the secluded spot their fears
were quickly confirmed. They saw the rod
hanging over the rock and the float down the
stream as far as the line would let it go, struggling
to remain quietly at its work.

'He is certainly gone,' said Miss Lyson,
but he has left his line.'

'And his basket, with two fish in it,' said
Dorothy ; ' so I hope he will soon come
back.'

They waited impatiently for his return until
the increasing darkness warned them of the
uselessness of their longer stay. They then
took the rod and line, with the basket of fish,
and slowly retreated homeward, hoping every

moment to hear the well - known footsteps
hastening after them. But no such welcome
sounds greeted their ears, and they re-entered
the vicarage under the impression that he had
left the place with the stranger, without giving
them any means of judging of the time of his
return.

The vicar was very poorly and depressed,
and on hearing of the absence of his son, complained
bitterly of his inattention to him, as
well as of his irregular habits.

I did hope,' he said, * that he would change
his mode of life, and become a help and comfort
to me, but I can now hope no longer ; '
with much more of the same kind, which the
sisters, as they sat by his bedside, strove in
vain to silence, until at length he fell asleep.

The watchers waited up till midnight, and
would have done so until the dawn of day, had
they not known that their brother had a latchkey,
and feared he would be angry if he found
them sitting up for his return.

The next morning, a few hundred yards
down the river from where the accident had
happened, a shepherd, going his round of inspection
through the fields, saw hanging in a
bush on the surface of the water a man's cap,
that on examination proved to be like one he

had seen Mr Lyson wearing on the previous
day, which induced him to take it to the vicarage
to restore it to its supposed owner.

The clue thus discovered was quickly improved
upon, and in a short time the bodies
of the missing men, clasped firmly together,
were brought up from the hole into which they
had fallen on the previous afternoon. Whether
they had struggled in the water for the mastery,
or in the vain hope of saving each other, could
not be known. Certain bruises on the head of
Lyson made it appear more than probable that
he had been injured by striking on a rock in
his fall, and had dragged his companion to the
bottom with him.

When the news of the unlooked-for event
reached Sir Edward and Mr Cresswell, it produced
a stunning sensation upon their minds,
and for a while they failed to realise the full
effect it would have upon the present state of
their affairs. They were at the moment in a
great state of anxiety about the health of Edith,
as during the past evening, while the sisters
were by the side of the river awaiting the return
of their brother, her illness had undergone a
very serious change for the worse, and on the
doctor being hastily summoned, she was declared
to be in a very critical condition.

And so for nearly a week she lay in extreme
danger, often unaware of what was passing
around her. Then a slight improvement took
place, and the doctor's countenance assumed a
more hopeful expression as he gazed upon her.
By his orders she was kept in a state of the
utmost quiet, and any one who approached her
was forbidden to make even the slightest allusion
to the death of her husband.

Troubled as he was about the state of his
daughter, and the fear of the effect it would
have upon the health of his wife, Mr Cresswell,
considering the relation in which he stood to
the dead man, could not remain a silent spectator
of what was passing at Downend. Accompanied
by Sir Edward, he drove over to the
vicarage to offer his personal sympathy to the
suffering and bereaved father.

The sisters received them with a freezing coldness.
They had already settled the fact beyond
dispute between themselves that the death of
their dear brother had been mainly occasioned
by the brutal treatment he had received from
his father-in-law and the infamous Sir Edward.
Having answered their inquiries very briefly,
they said they could not admit the gentlemen
to their father's presence, as he was not in a fit
state to be seen by them.

Their decision, however, was set aside by the
action of the servant girl, who, hearing their
assertion, muttered to herself, ' What a shame
it is not to let master see his friends,' stole upto
his bedroom and told him who was below.

The vicar answered faintly, ' Ask them to
come up. I should like to see them.'

The girl needed nothing more. In an instant
she was downstairs again, and bouncing into the
room where the gentlemen were, she cried, —

Please come with me, the vicar wants to see
you.'

Who told him they were here ? ' asked
Dorothy.

I did, miss,' replied the girl.

How dare you ! ' began Dorothy, when Miss
Lyson stopped her with —

'Hush, hush, sister ! ' and then said to the
girl, ' Show the gentlemen to your master's
room.'

They found the vicar very sad, and, from
physical weakness, unable to converse. After
a short stay they left him, with the uncomfortable
conviction on their minds that they had
done little by their visit more than they might
have done by a mere ceremonial expression of
their condolence.

The inquest on the bodies of Lyson and



Circum was a very simple affair. As there was
no evidence to show how they eot into the
water, the verdict of ' Found drowned ' was all
that could be recorded of the event. Out of
respect to the vicar, Sir Edward and Mr Cress-well
attended the funeral ; but the poor man
himself was confined to his bed. The sisters
were the chief mourners, and as they took their
last look into the double grave, whether grief
for the dead or hatred for the livings was the
most predominant feeling in their hearts, it
would be difficult to determine.

The young people at the Hall, as might have
been expected from their characters, were differently
affected by the news from the river.
Charlotte, whose mind was of the more serious
kind, heard with dismay of two souls being so
suddenly snatched away by the angel of death
into the unseen world of spirits. She had no
clear idea of the life Lyson had led, but she had
heard enough to feel that it must have been an
awful thing for him to have passed away
with his companion in the sudden way he
did.

Oliver, on hearing of the sad event, as it was
called, did not hesitate to confess that he should
never feel comfortable again at passing that part
of the river. While Grace, on the contrary, did

VOL. III. S

her best to induce Mrs Gibson to take a drive
over to Downend with her that she might have
a good look at the rock from which the men
had fallen.

Jesse was not so much affected by the accident
to the men themselves, as by the consequences
to his family which might follow upon
it. He had no reason to fear that there was
any one else ready to go on with the case against
his father, and owing to the careful manner in
which he had pursued his inquiries, he had little
hope that anything more respecting the marriage
would be brought to light. From the fact of
Circum having attempted to tamper with the
honesty of Miss Montag, it was apparent, he
thought, that he must have felt his case weak
before he resorted to that disreputable mode of
proceeding.

But although Jesse was so satisfied that
all must now go well, Sir Edward, as soon ashe
heard of the accident, sent off a telegram to
Mr Sims to come down to the Hall again as
soon as possible. He did not know how far
Jesse's presentiments of future peace were to
be trusted. It might be that the whole conspiracy
against him had disappeared with the
dead men in the river, but as there was a
chance of another party coming on the scene to

continue the struggle, he would endeavour to be
prepared to meet it.

In the early part of the afternoon Mr Sims
arrived, when, having been made acquainted
with what had occurred since he left yesterday,
he relieved his client from all fear of further
annoyance, by taking upon himself the responsibility
of dealing with any new comers. In
answer to an inquiry respecting Miss Montag,
his report was very favourable.

She was a little excited,' he said, * when he
first saw her at Islington, but that on reading
Mr Jesse's letter and looking over that which
had been sent to Mrs Wilkins, she had expressed
herself satisfied unwilling to go away
with him.'

If you can keep her with your family for a
few days,' said Sir Edward, ' you will greatly
oblige me.'

I shall be most happy to do so,' replied Mr
Sims. ' I left her with my children in the
nursery this morning apparently happy and
content, amusing the younger children and
making friends with their elders. To-morrow,
agreeable to your request, I will run down to
Bath, and from the description you have given
me of the youth Montag I do not anticipate any
difficulty with him.'

The report of the inquest on the bodies was
looked forward to with something like dread by
Sir Edward. Any papers that the stranger
had left at his lodgings, or might be found
upon his person, he knew would come under
the eye of the coroner. He did not care for
any that might refer to him in connection with
his property, but should there be any found
coupling his name with Mr Cresswell or Edith,
it might lead to much unpleasantness. And
also the cheque for five hundred pounds, should
it come before the jury, it would, perchance, lead
to some very awkward questioning.

Fortunately for Sir Edward, Circum was a
man who did not trust his secrets on paper.
Experience had taught him that the pen was a
traitor and not to be trusted. That the safest
scheme was that which was locked up in the
breast of the schemer. In consequence of this
peculiarity in his way of conducting business, no
papers of consequence were found, either at
his lodgings or on his person, and the cheque,
as the reader knows, had disappeared in the
water.

But as Sir Edward knew nothing of the
destruction of the cheque, he watched nervously
for its production while the inquiry was in
progress ; but as it did not appear, he concluded

that Circum had found means to get it cashed
by sending it to a friend in London, and, under
this impression for some time afterwards, he
closely examined his bank-book expecting to
see its entrance there. But no such item was
to be found, and in the end he was obliged to
give up the idea of discovering what had become
of it as a problem beyond his power to
solve.

The old steward's evidence of the marriage
remaining incomplete was a sore annoyance to
Jesse, for although he had no doubt about the
question himself, he felt it would be more
satisfactory to his father to have it cleared up
beyond the possibility of dispute. With a view
of brinorinof about a reconciliation with the old
man, he called at the cottage several times to
make inquiries for his health, under the severe
attack of gout from which he was reported to
be suffering. But nothing came of it. The
old man had had his say and he would say no
more. The power of the great house had lost
its influence over him.

But the state of affairs within the cottage
went on daily improving. No sooner was the
inquest concluded, and Lea saw that he had
nothing to fear from any disclosures that had
been made while it was going on, and had'

satisfied the solicitor that he had passed into
his dotage, than he threw off his fit of the gout
and took his place in the little parlour downstairs
with an amount of self-complacency that
proved, however harsh he might be to others,
he was on very good terms with himself.

The attention he received from Mrs Brown
was all he could desire. He had performed
his part so well that even she had been deceived.
She had looked upon his attack of
gout as real, and treated him accordingly. This
was very gratifying to him on more than one
account. While it showed him that he had
yet power to work under a mask, it also assured
him that if he should really fall ill he
would have a capital nurse ready at hand, and
a boy to run his errands and amuse him with
his tricks, when he should be disposed to let
him indulge in them.

His leaving the Hall so suddenly would have
caused more gossip had Sir Edward appeared
annoyed at his going, which he was careful not
to do. When the old man was reported to be
ill he sent to inquire for him, but after what
had passed between him and Jesse he did not
himself call at the cottage. It was generally
understood that the separation had taken place
in consequence of the growing infirmity of the

old servant, and that he might have entire
rest.

Though the boy Stephen had ceased to
worry the villagers, his nature was by no means
changed ; he was still the same lively, active
little fellow he ever had been. The change
that had taken place arose from the new position
in which the presence of Lea in the cottage
placed him. Formerly he had nothing to do
out of school hours but to sit down quietly with
Mrs Brown, or run about in the roads ready
for any playful mischief he could hit upon.

Now, when he was not sent on an errand,
Lea would keep him constantly as a companion,
and it soon became one of the common sights
for the villagers to look upon an old man, with
his stick on one side and a boy on the other,
going about from point to point, where a seat
could be obtained on a fallen tree or a rock by
the roadside.

No sooner would Lea seat himself than the
boy's arms and legs would get into motion, and
he would be up in a tree or jumping a ditch
with as much zest as ever. When at home he
was often employed in reading to Lea, who,
leaning back in his chair, listened with his eyes
half closed, while Mrs Brown sat with her work-basket
before her, looking with admiration on

her darling boy rather than making any noticeable
progress with her work.

This will do thought Lea. ' I worked hardin
my young days, and I will take my ease in
my old ones.' But his position with respect to
Mrs Brown he found was becoming a little
awkward. She was gaining a certain ascendency
over his mind, which he felt but could not
shake off. What should he do ? Should he,
snail like, draw himself back into his shell of
cold selfishness, and let her see t?iat he did not
require her watchful attention, though he could
not but be sensible that it tended more to his
comfort than otherwise ? or should he declare
himself conquered by her goodness, and ask
her to sink the name of Brown into that of
Lea?

This became an urgent question, and one he
must decide for himself, for Mrs Brown made
no immodest advances towards him, nor evinced
the slightest intention of being ever disposed todo
so.

One day, when seated on a log of wood in
the lane, he beckoned Stephen to his side, and
said abruptly to him, —

Don't you think it would be a good thing if
we were to have a pony carriage to ride about
the country in ? '

And for me to ride the pony ? Yes ; I
should think it would be capital.'

Not to ride ; I mean to drive ; but here
comes Mrs Brown, we will ask her what she
thinks about it.'

Mrs Brown thought it would be very
pleasant.

But where could you keep the pony ? ' asked
Stephen.

*We must find a stable for him, and perhaps
a larger house for ourselves, if Mrs Brown will
go and take care of it for us.'

Don't you find the cottage comfortable ? '
asked Mrs Brown.

Yes,' said Lea ; ' but I would rather be my
own landlord. I don't like feelings I am under
the Hall people. I tell you what we will do, if
you like. I see by the newspaper there is a
moderate-sized house, with a stable, orchard,
and garden, for sale about three miles from
Woodfield village, out of the parish, and
separated by a field or two from Sir Edward's
property. We will get a carriage from the inn
and go over and look at it. It is a new house
on an old foundation, I believe, so I dare say
you will find plenty of room in the cellars, if we
go there, to put wood, coal, and all that sort of
thine out of sight.'

I may go with you ? ' said Stephen.

Yes ; we will all go together.'

Oh, capital cried Stephen, as he turned a
somersault on the grass expressive of his
delight.

*What do you say, Mrs Browne*' asked
Lea.

I shall be pleased to go with you.'

*And if you like the house, will you leave
the cottage for it and be the wife of the
master .^^ '

I think we had better talk of that indoors.'

Then let us go in directly,' said Lea, * and
settle the business, for it is no use thinking of
it or talking of it any longer. Here, Stephen,
you run up to the post-office and get six penny
stamps.'

The indoor affair took but a short time to
arrange. Long before Stephen could get back
with the stamps, Mrs Brown had consented to
become Mrs Lea, and that not altogether from
selfish motives. She saw that her old lover
could not live alone and take care of himself
without the chance of his being constantly in
trouble from one cause or another. That as he
had proposed to her she could only live with
him as his wife in the same house, or send him
out to seek lodgings elsewhere.

The preparations for the marriage were soon
completed, the Hence procured, and the ceremony
performed by the vicar. No company
was invited, and only Stephen went with them
in the carriage to the church. The vicar disliking
to see a curious, gaping crowd in the
church, willingly attended to Lea's request, that
the noise of what was about to take place should
not go abroad to the villagers, dispensed with
the services of the clerk, and with the curate
alone performed the ceremony.

On leaving the church Lea proposed that
before they returned to the cottage they should
drive over and look at the house of which he
was in treaty for the purchase.

When they reached the house he said to the
driver, ' You will be in the way to take us back
in the course of an hour,' and was then received
with his companions in at the front door by a
woman who had been appointed to attend on
the visitors. It was a modern, quiet-looking
building, almost square, with two sitting-rooms,
a kitchen, and scullery on the ground floor, and
four bedrooms above. just the place for a
little family like ours,' said Lea. ' We don't
want to look at the cellars, I think } '

I will take a peep at them for you,' cried
Stephen, as he darted down the steps leading

to them. Before they had time to move faraway
he was back again, declaring they looked
large enough to hold wood and coal for the
next twenty years. 'Where are you going
now ? '

To look at the stables said Lea.

Ah ! that's the thing,' cried Stephen ; ' I want
to look at them. Is the pony there .'^ '

No ; he is not bought yet'

No sooner was the stable door open than the
boy was up in the loft and down again, rummaging
about in every hole and corner. ' What
a capital thing for a swing ! ' he exclaimed, as he
looked admiringly upon a coil of scaffolding
rope which had been left there by one of the
workmen who had been lately employed in some
brushing up on the exterior of the house.

And now for the orchard,' said Lea, ' where
the cherries, apples, pears, and plums are to
grow.'

A part of the orchard had formerly been
occupied by some outhouses, a barn, and stables,
but all that remained of them now were a few
of the foundations in the ground. The buildings
themselves had 'entirely disappeared. During
the time of the rebuilding of the house
some of the old material had been dug up
and used. In levelling the ground again the

labourers carelessly spread the waste stuff over
some old timber that had been placed there to
cover up a disused well of some twenty feet
deep.

On the spot which must, as the timber rotted
away beneath, become a trap to any one who
ventured upon it, a large log of wood had been
accidently placed.

I think I will take a rest here,' said Lea,
before we go to the garden.' As he spoke he
sat heavily down on what appeared a very comfortable
seat. But, alas ! for the old bridegroom,
it did not prove a comfortable seat for him, as
his weight, added to the heavy log, was more
than the rotten timbers below could bear, so
down they went with earth, log, and Lea, all
rattling down together into the abyss below,
where there was some five or six feet of water
cold as ice ready to receive them.

Lea was the last to disappear, and as his
wife, who was at a little distance, saw him
going down, she stood transfixed to the spot,
unable to speak or move. The boy, who was
by the side of Lea, only saved himself by a
desperate leap over the moving mass. He
saw what was taking place, and without a word
rushed back to the stable at such a rate that
he almost appeared to fly.

In a few seconds he was back again with the
coil of rope he had seen in the stable. Fixing
one end of it round a tree, he threw the other
into the well, and then, like a monkey, went
down hand under hand, as he had done many
times before from the trees by the roadside.


He was at the bottom not a moment too
soon ; holding on to the rope with one hand,
he groped about with the other until it came in
contact with Lea, who was struggling with the
log to keep his head above water.

The disappearance of Stephen into the well
after her husband, acted like an electric shock
upon Mrs Lea. Her voice came back to her
in a scream of horror that rang for a mile
round the place, causing every one who was
sitting to start up in a fright, and those who
were standing or walking to rush forward they
knew not whither.

The woman from the house and the man
from the carriage were the first to reach the
spot. These were quickly followed by two
men who happened to be passing down the
road at the time. Mrs Lea, in her fright,
could do nothing more than scream. ' There !
there ! ' as she pointed to the hole that had so
suddenly appeared before her.

But nothing more was wanted, as the voice
of Stephen ragout from below, —

Don't be afraid ; we are all right down
here. Get somebody to help you pull up
Mr Lea.'

All right,' said one of the men. * Get the
rope round under his arms, and we'll soon
have him up.'

But this did not appear an easy matter for
Stephen to accomplish, as the sounds of splashing
about in the water, mingled with the groans
of the old man, rose up to the listeners above.
One of the men threw himself at leno-th on
the ground, and stretching his head out over
the hole, looked cautiously down ; but he found
that he was perfectly helpless to aid the
strugglers below, till he heard the boy say, —

Now, you are all right ; just hold on with
your hands while I go up and see who is come
to help us.'

Don't leave me, don't leave me,' said Lea,
in a feeble voice.

Back again in a minute,' cried Stephen ;
then, like a cat, up the rope he went, till he
saw the men at the surface, when he slipped
back again to the bottom, and called out, ' pull
away ; we'll soon be up with you.'

It required some care on the part of the men

above in pulling at the rope to prevent the
stones and rubbish from falling down on the
heads of those below. But in a few minutes
the work was safely accomplished, Lea's body
rose to the surface, and was dragged away from
the hole.

'The boy, the boy ! ' cried Mrs Lea ; ' where
is the boy ? '

All right, on the log,' came up from below.

Send me down the rope again, and I'll soon
be up with you.'

As quickly as it could be detached from
Lea's body it was carefully returned to the
boy, who, putting it down, heedless of the
falling rubbish, till he felt it tightened by the
tree, before a hand could be stretched out to
help him, sprang out upon the grass, and began
to shake himself, after the drenching he had
had below, like a dog on a river's bank.

Seeing he was safe, Mrs Lea turned her
undivided attention to her husband.

Are you much hurt ? ' she asked.

I don't know ; I can't tell,' he murmured.

Get me some brandy.'

Fortunately there was a roadside public-house
near at hand ready to supply the stimulant,
which Lea drank very freely. By that
time a little crowd had collected round them,

and what was next to be done became a very
lively question. One said run for the doctor ;
another, get him into the house ; and another,
carry him to the public.

If mv arms and leers are not all broken, take
me back to the cottage,' murmured Lea.

Oh, they are all right,' said Stephen. ' Weare
only a little wet.'

Lea had for a moment been stunned by his
fall ; but, fortunately for him, the dry log on
which he was sittings was the first to reach the
water, and which his weight carried to the
bottom of the well like a stone, but was notable
to keep it there. He rose with it to
the surface, and was then canted off into the
water, where he was struggling with it for his
life when Stephen came so opportunely to his
assistance. He was greatly alarmed, and very
much shaken and bruised ; but he did not lose
his senses for more than an instant.

Rolled up in some blankets which were
brought from the house, he was carried out
into the road, placed in the carriage, and driven
to the cottage ; while the crowd that had
gathered round having freely commented on
the cause and consequence of the accident
gradual' dispersed.

With the driver's and the boy's assistance,

VOL. III. T

^ d

Mrs Lea managed to get her husband to the
bedroom and into bed. The brandy, of which
he had so freely drunk, had for the time stimulated
the action of his heart, and made him
insensible, to a certain extent, to the injuries
he had received.

Having made her husband as comfortable as
she could, Mrs Lea turned her attention to
Stephen ; but he did not want her assistance.
She saw he had divested himself of his wet
clothes, and was pleased to hear him declare
that he was all right and dry, and ready for
anything she had for him to do.

Shall I send for the doctor .^ ' asked the
trembling wife.

No, no sighed Lea. ' Let me lie quietly
here ; I don't want him.'

But the doctor was soon by his side ; for on
passing down the road he heard of the accident,
and good-naturedly called to see if his
services were needed.

Lea did not offer any opposition to his
entrance. The shock he had received or the
brandy he had taken, or both combined, rendered
him passive in the hands of his wife,
who, feeling the responsibility that rested upon
her, said, ' You must see the doctor, now he
has called.'

Don't leave me alone with him murmured
Lea.

A few questions and a slight examination
served to show that no bones had been broken ;
then the doctor, with a few cheery words to
the patient, withdrew from the room, directing
Mrs Lea to keep her husband quietly in bed
until he should call again to see the effect some
medicine would produce that he would immediately
send.

Does he think I am killed ? ' asked Lea.

Oh dear, no,' said his wife in an assuring
tone.

I should have been drowned had Stephen
not come down to me.'

Oh no, you wouldn't,' cried Stephen. * You
had hold of the log when I got down to you,
though it was a rather tumble-about sort of
thing to get upon.'

The medicine was soon at the cottage, and
the half-conscious man induced to take it. Ina
short time it produced a soothing effect upon
his nerves, and he fell asleep.

You sit by him,' said Mrs Lea to Stephen,
while I go and change my dress, for I feel
almost as if I had been in a well myself.'

HILE following up the history of
the old steward at the cottage, we
have not been unmindful of the
state of affairs at the Hall, where
we left Edith slightly improved after a week's
dangerous illness. Happily no relapse came to
re-awaken the great anxiety of her friends, and
in the course of a few days the physician was
able to say that the crisis was passed, and if no
untoward event intervened, she would shortly
be convalescent, and able to undertake a little
journey for the benefit of the sea air.

This announcement was listened to by Sir
Edward with very different feelings to the late
proposal for a journey to Scotland or Wales.
He had now no fear that, go wherever she
chose, she would meet with any one to annoy or
injure her, and therefore it was readily arranged
that, as soon as she was able, accompanied by

her father and mother, she should go down to
Brighton for a few days or weeks before returning
to Downend, to prepare for a longer
journey.

The news of her changed condition was
gradually unfolded to Edith by her mother.
She did not, however, for some time know how
sad had been the end of her husband, but she
realised the fact that he was gone, and she was
free ; and who will blame her when she felt a
sense of relief steal over her heart if she did not
instantly endeavour to check it.

His anxiety on his visitor's account having
subsided, Sir Edward was able and at liberty to
turn his attention more fully to the matter in
which he knew Jesse felt himself so deeply interested.
By giving his consent that he might
correspond with Miss Montagu, he had plainly
enough foreshadowed his intention of, under
certain conditions, allowing them at no distant
period to meet. But, while the question of the
property remained undetermined, he would not
proceed to anything like decided action.

They were still both young, and had, perhaps,
formed no lasting love and esteem for
each other. He spoke in this way to Jesse,
who, with the confidence of youth and the
truthfulness of a first passion, put the idea of

their love for each other not lasting away from
him with a laugh of derision as not worthy
of a reply in words.

You have behaved very well, Jesse,' said
Sir Edward, with tears in his eyes ; ' since
circumstances, as I viewed them, compelled me
to put your faith in my just dealing to a very
severe test. I will not now attempt to disguise
from you that I took Miss Montag to London,
in the hope that your love was but a 
affair, which would fade away under a short
separation.'

I admit that I was wrong, and that your
attachment to each other was of a deeper and
more enduring character than I had given you
credit for. I could wish that your affections
had remained untouched until you had finished
your university course, and were fully prepared
for your career in life, but I will not ask you
to believe that I have your interest in view in
what I am about to propose, as I am confident
you are aware of the fact.

Observation, I am assured, must have convinced
you that a man should be prepared fora
married life before he undertakes its duties.
Marriage first, and the university afterwards, is
contrary to all reason and order. In consenting,
therefore, to your proposing to Miss Montag,

it Is my wish that, immediately you have
publicly done so, you should enter your name
either at the University of Oxford or Cambridge,
and agree to keep your terms therefor
at least two years.'

I can have no objection to offer to that,'
replied Jesse.

'With respect to Miss Montag, if she Is
agreeable, she shall be supplied with efficient
masters at a good finishing school, where she
will receive suitable instruction to fit her for
the position you intend she shall occupy in
your house.'

Father,' cried Jesse, ' you make me feel
as if I had already accomplished the most
earnest desire of my heart. How can I
sufficiently thank you for your thoughtful
kindness ?

By continuing the course you have so fairly
commenced,' replied Sir Edward. ' And with
respect to i\Ir Montagu, I can have but little
to say. All the reports I get of him are very
good, and I have no fear that his future will
be different from the past, or that any misunderstanding
can arise between us. It shall
be my care to see that he has an opportunity
of preparing himself for a position in life suitable
to his natural abilities.'

Am I at liberty asked Jesse, ' to communicate
this brooch news to Miss Contact" ? '

Yes,' replied Sir Edward ; ' and if she is
prepared to receive you for a few hours, I will
^^^et you to take a message from me to Mr
Sims in Russell Square, where you will doubtless
find the means of seeing her.'

Jesse was too happy for words to show
the depth of his gratitude. He rose from his
chair, seized his father's hand, and pressed it
to his lips. Then with ' Thank you, thank
you,' turned away and hastily left the
room.

Poor boy ! ' sighed Sir Edward, ' he little
dreams of the trials and temptations that the
world has in store for him.'

Guided by the physician's opinion of Edith's
ability for her short journey, JMr Cresswell took
her with her mother and Grace, as a special
favour, on their visit to Brighton ; further arrangements
for a longer journey being left
until their return to Doomed. Sir Edward
felt a strange loneliness steal over him on
their leaving the Hall. He would fain have
found an excuse for going with them, but ashe
could not well do so, he busied himself
with his home duties, and those falling to him
from the offices he held in the county, and

by that means avoided the unpleasant feeling
of having time hang heavily on his hands.

IMr Gordon again became a frequent guest
at the Hall. The trouble that had of late held
its court there had for a time put a check upon
the meeting of the friends, but they now appeared
in a fair way of compensating themselves
for the interruption. Charlotte also resumed
her place beside Miss Gordon ; worked with herat
home, and went with her, attended by Oliver,
the round of the poor and sick of the parish.

She was a little surprised and amused with
the unabashed, easy manner in which Oliver
met Miss Gordon and conversed with her upon
the incidents of the day as they came before
them, that proved that, in her presence at least,
his shyness was rapidly passing away. She,
however, no sooner ventured on a word of
banter to Miss Gordon on the subject, than she
was stopped by the information that, while she
was absent in attendance on Edith, Mr Gibbs,
the curate, had grown quite melancholy, so that
even the most approved jest could not win from
him a smile.

Return we now to the cottage to take our
final leave of the old steward. As he has
hitherto not done much to engage the sympathy
of the reader, we shall not dwell on any incidents

that took place In his room for the next fortnight
after his marriage and accident at the
well. That he had been very much shaken
and bruised there could be no doubt ; but
under the clever treatment of the doctor, and
the careful nursing of his wife and Stephen,
he was enabled, at the end of that time, with
their assistance, to get downstairs again to
his arm-chair, and answer the inquiries that
were daily made for his health from the Hall.

As days passed away, a change appeared
to be gradually taking place in the temper
and mind of the old man. He was far from
losing his old irritable way of talking entirely,
or his suspicious scrutiny of what was going
on around him ; but still, generally speaking,
he was growing less exacting and more easily
pleased with what was set before him. On
one point, however, he was as stern and hard
as ever. It related to his late accident.

On his being sufficiently recovered to go
into the question of the injury he had received,
he threatened to enter an action against the
owner of the house for having such a trap asa
covered well on his premises. He could
prove the owner knew of its existence, and
he believed he was in a fair way of obtaining
substantial damages. His wife begged him

not to worry himself with a lawsuit. But fora
time he would not listen to her, and was
only brought to do so at last by an intimation
from the owner's solicitor, that he was open
to an arrangement.

Let him give the boy fifty pounds who
saved my life, for I am sick of hearing of it,'
said Lea.

This, after a little higgling on the part of
the solicitor to reduce the sum, being agreed
to, the money was paid into the bank to the
credit of Edmund Montag, in trust for Stephen
Elvin.

After about a week's occupation of the armchair.
Lea, supported by his wife, was able
to get out of doors for a little walk. But,
with his returning strength, the effects of his
sudden plunge into the well did not pass away.
The wheezing at his chest, which of old was
disagreeable, now became very troublesome ;
with the addition of a hard cough, especially
at night, when it kept him for hours together
painfully awake.

His chief employment of an evening was to
have one of his large boxes brought to him,
which years since he had filled with smaller
ones, each one containing a separate set of
papers. Unlike Circum, his object through

life seemed to have been to keep a written
record of all the little events in which he had
been concerned. For what purpose he did so
he never told any one, and it is just possible
he did not know himself. But that the habit
had become a second nature to him, was apparent
by the careful manner, after looking
over the papers, he tied them up again in
bundles, and restored them to their close
packing in the small boxes.

'Why,. you have papers enough,' said Stephen,
one evening as they were sitting together, ' to
make a hundred school books.'

They are not to be read by any one but
myself.'

But what will you do with them after you
are dead ? ' asked Stephen.

After I am dead ? ' repeated Lea.

Yes,' replied Stephen ; ' you can't carry
them with you, you know, because the Bible
says, " We brought nothing into the world,
and we can carry nothing out," and I can
show you where it says so. Can't I ?' he added,
turning to Mrs Lea.

Yes, and a great deal more that is in the
Bible, I hope,' replied Mrs Lea.

After I am dead ! ' thoughtfully repeated
the old man.

Yes,' said Stephen. ' What will you do
with them then ? '

• Suppose I say they shall be yours ? '

Then I shall give them to Mr ?^Iontaof
when I see him. and ask him to read them
to me.'

Would you, indeed .^ '

Yes, because I don't think I could read
them all myself.'

During the evening Lea went on mechanically
with his work, saying but little to either
of his companions, but occasionally murmuring
to himself, ' That is of no use, as he threw a
loose piece of paper on the fire.'

The next evening he became more destructive,
and instead of its being the few
pieces that went to the fire, it was the few
that escaped, until each box that came under
review returned to its place almost empty.
The idea that Stephen had suggested to him
of what he would do with them after he was
dead, had been deeply impressed on his mind,
and a voice had seemed to whisper in his ear, —
Why, they will pass into the hands of others,
who will learn the secrets of your life.'

But they are old friends,' he thought, * some
of them very old friends. But still the work of
destruction went on at an increasing rate, till

/^

all but a few papers remained, which he read
carefully over, adding here and there an explanatory
note. Then he placed them neatly
together in a large envelope, and wrote on
the outside, ' Not to be opened while I am
alive.'

Following this, the time appeared to hang
heavily on his hands, and his irritability in a
great measure returned to the sore trial of the
patience of his wife and Stephen. His breathing
became more difficult, which the doctor
observing, said to Mrs Lea on the following
day,—

I am afraid the case of my old friend is
growing very serious, and it would be well if
he has any arrangements to make about his
property, if he set about the task without
delay.'

Do you think he will not get well again ? '

I see no appearance of his amendment at
present, though he has a strong constitution,
and may rally when we least expect it'

Mrs Lea being of a serious turn of mind, set
herself to work to discover the means by which
she could make her husband sensible of the
dangerous nature of his illness ; but she soon
saw that he purposely misunderstood what she
was endeavouring to do. To Mr Gordon, who

called to see him, he was morose In his manner
and unstudied In his speech, and when reminded
of It by his wife, he replied, —

I have seen too much of your fahr-speaking
parsons to have any faith In them.'

But faith In the gospel Is all that Is required

Oh yes, so they say ; but how do they show
it themselves ? '

After one of his severe fits of coughing, he
said to Stephen, —

My boy, I begin to think it Is nearly all up
with me. You got me out of the well, but I
have been no better than a dead man ever
since.'

You must keep up your spirits,' said the
boy.

I have none to keep up,' said Lea. ' I left
them all In the well, and just at the time, too,
when we were going to make everything so
comfortable in our new house.'

The closer relations Into which the old people
were now brought, revealed to the self-sacrificing
wife that her husband was far from
happy. That, under his outside appearance of
roughness and 111 temper, he had troubles of
conscience to deal with that he could not quiet
nor escape from.

Jesse had been several times to see him

without gaining admittance further than the
entrance at the door ; but one morning on
calling, after Lea had passed a very restless
night, he was invited to go up to his room.
After he had sat by the bedside of the sick
man for a few minutes, Lea addressed him
abruptly in his broken voice, and said, —

Mr Jesse, I insulted you before I left the
Hall, and I suppose I ought to beg your
pardon.'

'If any pardon is necessary,' said Jesse, 'it
is freely yours.'

Since that time I have suffered much in
mind and body, though I have fought hard
against giving way. I knew what you wanted
when you spoke to me about Germany, and I
would have satisfied sou in a moment, could I
have done so without proclaiming myself a
villain. Now, promise me one thing and you
shall know all.'

I will promise anything you can justly
require of me.'

It is only if I place an envelope in your
hands you will not open it till I am dead.'

I promise,' said Jesse.

Open that box,' said Lea feebly, pointing to
one by his side, ' and take out the envelope you
will find there. Put it in your pocket, and

remember your promise. I have been a great
sinner, and hardly know how to raise my eyes
to heaven.'

The next day, after the doctor had called and
spoken very plainly of his dying state, he asked
his wife to send for Sir Edward and Mr Jesse.

As soon as they presented themselves before
him, he said, —

I have some property to leave behind me,
and I want you, Sir Edward, to act as a trustee
when I am gone. I dare say I might safely
leave all to my wife, for she is very good, but I
think I would rather settle it myself I wish
her to have five thousand pounds, and the
remainder to go in equal parts to Edmund
Montag, Lizzie Montag, and Stephen Elvin.
To the former as a recompense for a great
injury I did them years ago, and to the latter
because he saved me from drowning, and has
been very good to me since. I hope they will
not fare much worse than my wife.'

A solicitor having been immediately summoned,
the will was drawn out, signed, witnessed
and sealed in due form, and so far all
was satisfactorily settled.

From that time the dying man troubled himself
little more about the affairs of this world.
His complaints of his sufferings were continuous,
and his exactions on his wife's patience to
within two days of his death almost beyond
endurance. Yet though he lingered on for a

VOL. III. u

month longer, she was constantly by his side,
watchful and prayerful as ever, and thereby
gained the sympathy of all, both great and
small, in Woodfield.

When Jesse learnt that death had closed
the painful scene at the cottage, he, in the presence
of his father, opened the envelope that had
been entrusted to his care. In a few minutes
all their doubts were at an end. They read in
Lea's confession that he had been the chief
cause of bringing the poor woman who died in
the park to her miserable end. That he had
schemed to make her marriage illegal, so that
his young master might rid himself of her
whenever he should be disposed to do so ;
that after the young man's death, he had gone
to her and informed her of the cheat that had
been played off upon her, but which he could
not induce her to believe. He confessed that,
for aught he knew, he left her penniless instead
of paying over to her a sum of money which
had been entrusted to him by his young master
for her use. He heard of the birth of her
children and the death of her aunt, but he took
no means to help her.

He had confirmed himself in his wickedness
by thinking she was a fine girl and would soon
meet with another protector. Of her setting
out for England he had no expectation or fear.
How she managed to cross the sea he could
not understand, or how she fell to the low

estate in which she was found. He supposed
she had somewhere by the way fallen into bad
company and been robbed, but had not been
deterred from continuing her journey to Wood-field,
which she had discovered was the home
of her husband, in the hope of hearing of him
there.

'It is a painful subject to contemplate,' said
Sir Edward with a sigh. When the reading
was finished, and we will not dwell upon it. I
will see Mr Montag and explain the whole
matter to him. With respect to the sister, I
think I will leave the explanation to you, and
there the sad affair must end.'

Following the death of the old steward, a
state of perfect peace, compared with the late
turmoil, prevailed at the Hall. Jesse set himself
to work in earnest to prepare for Oxford. A
good finishing school was found for Miss
Montag, and every advantage offered to her
brother for his much-loved study.

The boy Stephen was sent to a better school
at a distance, but not far enough to prevent him
from continuing to live with Mrs Lea at her
cottage.

Mr and Mrs Cresswell, with Edith and Grace,
remained at Brighton much longer than the intended
time. The sea air proved beneficial to all
the party, and they lingered from week to week till
the idea of any longer journey faded from their
minds. By the time they returned to Downend,

a great change had taken place there. The
broken-hearted father had gone down with
sorrow to the grave, and his daughters forth
into the wide world to seek another home.
While the new vicar appointed to the living,
bringing his wife and children with him to the
renovated house, filled the rooms which had
so lately echoed to the shrill voices of the
sisters, with sounds of pattering feet and merry
laughter.

The changes that promised to take place
shortly afterwards at Woodfield between the
young people in their parish work, we cannot
now enter upon. Nor of the active intercourse
that took place between Sir Edward and his
old friends at Downend. We must content
ourselves by saying that a note of discord was
never struck between them, and how many
of a contrary nature were sounded during the
next two or three years, we will leave without
one single word, to the reader's imagination.

THE END.

COLSTON AND SON, PRINTERS, EDINBURGH.
