OF THE

UN Diversity

Of Ill Noise

R9lsa,

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sailorssweethear01russ

AN ACCOUNT OF

THE WRECK OF THE SAILING SHIP,
WALDERSHARE,"

FROM THE NARRATIVE OF MR. WILLIAM LEE,
SECOND MATE.

BY

W. CLARK RUSSELL,

Author OF "THE WRECK OF THE GBOSVEKOE," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1880.

(All rights reserved.)

PRINTED r.T AVJI.UAM Closes AND SONS, Listed,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHAE1KG CROSS.

PREFACE

When, four years ago, I wrote " The Wreck
of the Grosvenor'' the very last misgiving
that entered vas mind was that it would be
questioned on the score of its accuracy. I
had passe:! eight years at sea in the Merchant
Service ; much of my leisure had been

^ spent in the forecastle among the men, and
their arguments and stories were impressed
on my memory. Nevertheless, several

verities, whose knowledge of the sea I have
the best possible reasons for suspecting,
determined that various incidents narrated
in the " Grosvenor " were impossible. What
those incidents were I need not weary the
reader by saying here ; but it is certain that
the incidents which my critics voted impossible

were all of them facts, perfectly
familiar to seamen, and within the experience
of twenty out of every hundred seafaring
men.

Fortunately for my veracity, however,
confirmation of my accuracy reached me
many months after the book was published,
in the form of a narrative quoted in the
Atlantic Monthly Magazine, a serial of high
standing in the United States, and written
by many able American authors. The
narrative was entitled " The Wreck of the
Grosvenor in Real Life." I offer no apology
for quoting it.

Those of the readers of ' The Wreck of
the Grosvenor ' who, like myself, first read
it at the sea-shore, with the accessories of
an occasional wild storm and intercourse
with some of the finest specimens of sailor
character on the Atlantic coast, must have
felt in a peculiar manner the photographic
reality of the whole story. Striking testimony
to the correctness of what sometimes
seemed exaggerated has fallen in ray way
more than once. A broad-breasted manly
skipper, in whose company I was thrown

last summer, and whose face has caught
much of its bronze while rescuing human
lives, had an experience identical with that
of the heroine and her father on the rolling
deserted hull. A passing ship had taken
one boastful from the wreck in a frightful
sea ; the officer refused to return for the
three sailors, of whom one was my narrator,
and their lives were saved only by an act
of heroism such as is described in the
1 Grosvenor.'

"And now, in a remote corner of the
shipping news in my morning paper, among
the sadly numerous disasters of the past
month, is a story curiously resembling the
circumstances of the crisis which came
to the Grosvenor when off the Bermudas.
The reader will remember the mutiny of the
crew, led by the ship's carpenter; the death
of the captain ; the placing of the hero, the
second mate, in command; the false reckoning
which the latter kept ; the supposed
nearness to Florida, but real proximity to
the Bermudas ; and the intention of the
mutineers to leave the mate and Miss
Robertson on board, after having scuttled

the vessel. Then came the suspense of the
counter-plotters— the boatswain being hidden
below, instead of dead, as the mutineers
supposed — when the carpenter came up
from below, after boring auger-holes in the
ship's bottom, and deserted the vessel with
the mutineers. I copy the coincidence
from the report, word for word : —

"brig L'Avvehire, from Messina for
New York (before reported), arrived in Five
Fathom Hole, Bermuda, March 29, in
charge of Captain Page, late first officer
of barque 'Black Prince, of St. John, Neb.
The latter fell in with the brig March 23,
lat. 28° 40',.long. 67°. She was drifting about
in a crippled condition, with foremast, main-topmast,
jibboom with all attached, carried
away, and had to all appearances been
abandoned. Captain Tyrrel, of the Black
Prince, took the brig in tow, and towed her
for some time, when he found it would be
more judicious to adopt another course.
He accordingly cut the hawser, and put his
first officer with four seamen on board the
brig, and ordered them to bring her to Bermuda.
With some spare spars from the

Blade Prince jury-masts were rigged, and
the ship reached port as already mentioned.
Captain Page reports that, when he went onboard
the brig, he found eight feet of water
in the hold. He and his crew set to work
at the pumps and soon gained on the water.
After the water had been lowered, he overhauled
the vessel, and found three auger-holes
in the hull, and *two three-quartering
augers lying near by. One hole was
forward quite low down ; a second one was
opposite the mainmast ; and a third one
was near the stern-post. After these had
been stopped up, the vessel was perfectly
tight, and proved herself an excellent sea-boat.
The U Venire is built of white oak,
is a new vessel apparently, and was well
fitted. She is loaded with a cargo of
oranges, lemons, and wine, and the fruit
appears to be in an excellent condition.
The vice-marshal in the Court of Admiralty
took charge of the ship and cargo, pending
the action of the parties interested in them.
The vessel had commenced to discharge
cargo, April 4, by order of the Court of
Admiralty.'

When it is remembered that soon after
the date of picking np the brig there followed
one of the severest storms (March
30th) known in many years, the parallel is
almost perfect. Could there be even the remotest
connection between the wreck of the
Grosvenor and the wreck of the L'Avvenire $
Had the book been known on board, or had
another ill-treated crew evolved from their
inner consciousness just such a liberation as
had occurred to the author of the Grosvenor
f "—No. 262, August, 1879.

My reason for referring to a former novel
by me and quoting the narrative I have
given is merely to obtain from the reader
of " A Sailor's Sweetheart " some credit for
good faith. The sense of numerous shortcomings
makes me anxious to emphasize
the one virtue which I honestly know my
sea stories possess — I mean their truth.
Whatever may be the degree of importance
attached to credibility in novel writing, it is
to guard against the charges brought against
The Wreck of the Grosvenor," that I say
there is not an incident in "A Sailor's
Sweetheart" that is not true. The madness

of Captain Flanders, the devotion of
Helen Williams, the foundering of the
Waldershare, the incident of the waterlogged
brig, the final escape from the island,
are all so many facts, based upon two narratives
and one personal experience.

W. Clark Russell.

1880.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. BURMARSH . . . . 1

II. Down the River . . 27

III. A Fog in the English Channel . 54

IV. To the Isle of Wight . . 100

Y. At Sea . . . . 123

VI. The Fag End of a Cyclone . 15G

VII. Lanyon's Burial . . . 207

VIII. The " Jessie Jackson " . . 228

CHAPTER I.

BURMARSH.

I have spent some tolerably dismal and
sorrowful clays in my life, as this story will
explain, though I wish I could say that they
were all contained in it ; but the saddest
day that ever my eyes opened upon was a
Wednesday in June, in 1858. It was not
that my shore-going holiday was about to
end ; though it is true that for more than
three whole months I had not clapt eyes on
a ship, and that in a day I was to exchange
the fine summer country, the. lying in bed
all night, the milk and fresh butter, the
going and coming as I pleased, with no man

VOL. I. b

to say " sir " to and no master but my own
sweet will, for a week's hard work in the
West India Docks, and then a voyage that
was likely to last above a year.

But this was not the worst part. Going
to sea is nothing to a man who has only the
shore to leave and no clinging hands to tear
himself away from. Since the death of my
poor old mother, who survived my father
five years, and died when I was fourteen
years old, my hat had covered my family
and estate ; I went to sea as naturally as a
boy goes home, and only loved the land as
holiday ground for a frolic that was always
merry enough whilst the money lasted. But
now had come something else ; and on this
June morning, when I awoke, my heart lay
in me as heavy as a deep-sea lead, and mortal
man never shaved a gloomier face than the
one that glowered upon me from the looking-glass
as I turned to and lathered myself.
For the truth was that I, William Lee, cetat
twenty-three, was not only in love, but
engaged to be married. I reckoned the
engagement was to be a regular Jack's betrothal,
all waiting ; but that would not

make it the less real. The engaged ring-was
on her finger, and we had both of ns
enough love and faith to keep our hearts
green and patient until the time came for
the parson to give her my name, whenever
that should be.

She was an orphan, just as I was. Her
father, who had been a naval officer and a
cousin of my mother, had died and left her
three thousand pounds, and her guardian
was Mr.' Paul Johnson, once a lawyer, but
at this time a common-councilman of the
borough of Burmarsh, a town in which he
had dwelt upwards of fifty years. He was a
good-hearted man at bottom, but had a bad
opinion of his fellows, and liked to bethought
cynical. I believe he was hated by
the people he sat amongst at the Town
Council meetings, partly because of his
mulish trick of voting out of spite, and
partly because nearly every week he wrote
letters to the local papers, criticizing and
sneering at the Corporation. But I took
no interest in these doings, and hard as he
tried, Councillor Johnson never could succeed
in exciting my curiosity as to them ;

indeed, I scarcely knew what a councillor
meant, and what work he was intended todo.
I was only sure that he had nothing
to do with the sea.

The old councillor had been at school
with my father, and they had been good
friends in after life. They came together
through a lawsuit, and I have heard my
mother say that Mr. Johnson acted nobly
to my father on some occasions. Indeed, I
have a notion that the old councillor was a
sort of connection of mine on my father's
side ; but I never knew what, and never
took the trouble to ask.

When I had come home from a voyage
to China, and found my mother dead and the
old house let, Mr. Johnson came to look forme,
and bade me make his house my home,
which I did whenever it suited me to do so ;
and here it was that I found Helen Williams
— whom I shall call Nelly in this narrative,
as that is the familiar name to me —
when I landed after the voyage immediately
preceding the disastrous one of which this
book is the record.

I fell in love with her the moment I saw

her, for men are always in a hurry in these
matters, and sailors especially, who pass
mouths without seeing a woman. It took
her some time to hud out what she thought
about me, aud she wouldn't have done it
then if I had not given her a hand, as I may
say, and helped her in every way I knew.
Her father had only been dead six months,
and her grief still hung like a kind of darkness
over her; but after a while her love
met mine, as the tide of a calm sea comes
up the shore with little running and a kind
of purr, and a glancing backwards and forwards,
as you shall have seen it, though the
forward movement is the steady one and the
stronger.

Until just a week before I w T went away to
sea on my seventh voyage, I think it was —
that being my first trip as second mate,
which I ought to feel ashamed to own,
though even in those days berths in the
merchant service were as hard to find as
whales in the English Channel — I took her
for a walk down the river, and there — for
it was in the summer-time — as she stood
watching the trout jump and the swallows

skimming the water, and the lazy cows
beyond chaw, chaw, chewing like a lot of
old sailors mumbling their quids, I took
her hand in mine and we just told our love
to each other in plain words. We then
arranged — for she was my master and did
what she liked with me, though I never
seemed to feel her hand at the helm, so
firm and delicate was her control — that she
would become downright engaged to me
when I came home next time ; for, said she,
that will give you time to think, and see
other faces, and be sure of yourself; " and
then, if I came home still loving her and
wanting her, why, I might slip on a ring,
and so she would wait until I could marry
her. I asked if she was as likely as I to
remain true ? But this was a man's question
that wanted no answer in words, for her
smile made me wiser than any amount of
language could have done.

I went away loving her ; and whenever I
had a chance to send a letter home it was
to her ; and I came back loving her. On the
very evening of the day of my arrival — no
chance having offered before, and she and

I being alone — I drew forth a ring and put
it on her finger. She kissed me as I did so,
as though this was a ceremony that needed
a consecration of that kind ; and God knows
she was right. Her kiss made me feel how
greatly she loved me. It was the leaping
up of her heart that was overjoyed I had
returned safe, after the long separation and
the daily prayers and fears. For the whole
of this time that I was ashore we were
throughout the days scarcely longer than
an hour for a spell apart. Our devotion
made the people of the place talk about us,
for in Burmarsh you could not cross a road
without some one seeing you and making
news of it ; and that is the case still, I hear,
though the population has nearly doubled
since those times.

But now had come the last day. Tomorrow
I was to go to London to join my
ship as second mate still, though I held a
chief-mate's certificate, and on that day
week the Waldershare was to sail.

Councillor Johnson's house was in the
High Street, a little way above the town,
and about a stone's throw from the Wesleyan

Chapel which was then newly built. It
was above a hundred and fifty years old,
with a great garden behind stuffed full of
fruit trees — his pears were the finest in the
county — and another garden in front stuffed
full of flowers. It was like a perfumer's
shop, with its smells of lavender, rose, violet,
and such things ; and I have often stood
at the open window and made a regular job
of sniffing, thinking to myself I had best
make the most of these smells whilst I had
them, for I should be going back to bilge
water and the aroma of boiled salt pork
presently. This morning I was slow in
shaving and dressing myself, for I was
constantly dropping into thought, and starting
out of it to find my hands idle and my
eyes fixed, with a sort of mist over them,
on the beaming garden below, where the
flowers stood so thickly that the place was
like a huge nosegay, and where the butterflies
were cruising about like bits of paper
blown here and there, and where the bees
were booming with the sound of deep-toned
men humming the responses in church.
My window was wide open, and the whole

beauty of this glorious morning came into
it. "Oh, Nelly," thought I, "this is the
last clay we may ever spend together ! Oh,
Lord ! to leave yon, my sweet one, and
these flowers, and to go and do a week's
stowing in the black and rankly smelling
hold of a ship, and then to sail away and
perhaps be drowned — to be set wrestling
and choking in the dark hollow of a big sea,
and to sink down into the silence beneath,
leaving of all my life nothing but a few
bubbles on the surface of the water, to be
probed at as a monster by the cold snouts
of fish, the like of which mortal eye may
never have beheld ; whilst you, my darling,
having prayed God to watch over and protect
me, creep into joy white bed, where
you lie for a long hour in the quiet night
thinking of me, wondering what I am doing
and if my th oughts are with you, and trying
to image the ship standing upright in the
calm — for if it is calm with you, how, my
innocent one, shall you imagine the tempest
raging elsewhere ? — and the pale sails
motionless as clouds, with the stars gleaming
among them, until your eyes close, and

your dear lips murmur my name, aud your
soft breast heaves gently and regularly in
sleep ! "

Bah ! thought I, Master Will, enough of
this : and I was about to quit the window,
and the room too, when, very greatly to my
surprise, I heard Nelly singing in the garden ;
and, screwing my head round the looking-glass
to get a sight of her, sure enough
there she was, with a big pair of scissors in
her hand, cutting flowers, her head hidden
in a wide straw hat.

Singing! thought I; on this day of all
days ! cutting flowers with a holiday air !

Oh, a jolly sailor's life is a merry, merry life,
And a very merry man ought he to be."

Here she paused, whilst she looked around
her for a suitable flower.

When he's tired of the shore, he need only kiss
his wife,
Pick his bundle up and run away to sea.

Tol de moliere

she made another pause, and I
could almost have persuaded myself that
she knew I was listening, and wanted to

give fine time to digest the meaning of her
words.

But it's O height for the merry sailor's wife,
For a very merry, faithless man is he :
To be married to a very merry sailor all my life
Is a merry life that wouldn't quite suit me.

Tol de rol."

She had scarcely finished this choice
song, as old Izaak Walton might say, when
I heard the councillor's daughter, Phoebe,
call out to her, " Is Will down yet, Helen ?
Breakfast will be ready in a few moments."
On which Nelly made a movement ; but
before she could look up at my window, I
had got sternly on me, for I had no mind
just then to let her know that I had been
watching and listening to her.

"Will, are you in your room?" she
called out ; but I gave her no answer.

I could not understand her singing and
picking flowers and going about with her
happy airs that morning. Though it might
be all forced, it was still no good ; for I
was miserable enough myself, and felt that
she ought to be more miserable than I.
She struck up again in a minute, but this

time more faintly ; and, being now dressed,
I went downstairs.

Phoebe Johnson was in the breakfast-room,
playing with a kitten in the sunshine
that lay upon the carpet, and that streamed
in through the open glass door or French
window which led into the garden where
Nelly was picking flowers. The councillor
had not yet made his appearance. Phoebe
was a broad-backed, deep-bosomed woman
about thirty years old, with a pretty face
and red hair. She did as much for her
father as three generations of women could
have done ; she was not only his daughter,
but she quarrelled with him as viciously
as if she had been his wife, and molly-toddled
him as if she had been his mother,
and corrected him to his face and boasted
about him behind his back as if she had
been his grandmother. I used to be rather
fond of kissing this girl when I first knew r
her, and I think she liked it, and there
was a time when I believed I was in love
with her ; but I ceased to have any nonsense
with her after I met Nelly, and she
let me go with as little concern as she

would a cat that sprung £1*0111 her lap after
she had been nursing it a bit.

Good morning, Phib," said I, for that
was my name for her. " I'm glad to think
that Nelly can sing this morning. For my
part, I feel as sorrowful as a bear floating
out to sea on a piece of ice." As I said
this, I glanced in the direction of my
sweetheart, who had gone some little distance
away, and was at work with her
scissors over a bed of mignonette.

And why shouldn't she sing, my sweetest
William ? " replied Phoebe, with an air of
exasperating indifference. " The longer
she can carry her cheerfulness the shorter
time she will have to fret oyer your absence,
my dear."

"True," said I; "but still, this is my
last morning but one. Half an hour later
tomorrow morning I shall be saying goodbye,
outward bound, my darling, a whole
year and more away ; and though I am
glad to hear her singing," said I, scowling
in my effort to keep to windward of my
vexation and wonder, " yet I can't help
thinking it would be more natural — I am

speaking of her as my sweetheart, ducky —
if she showed the same sort of colours I'm
flying. I don't want her to cry — to pipe

her eye, Phib, but Not a word more,

if you please. Here she comes."

Phib laughed, and pitched the kitten
on to a sofa and went to the other end of
the room as Nelly came in. Her hat,
which was as big as a plantation-overseer's,
kept me clear of her face when I stepped
up to her, though I never made any scruple
of kissing her morning and night before
Phib and her father. She put the flowers
upon the table and took off her hat, looking
at me wistfully, as though she guessed
some of my thoughts.

She was a woman, I think, every man
would have admired ; of the right height,
her figure a graceful and beautiful one, and
so active, strong, and lovely in its movements
that, I used to tell her, with a little
training, she would be a match for the most
expert of the theatrical flying women — the
people who walk on ropes and hang by
their eyelids to ceilings. She had magnificent
hair, " an excellent thing in woman,"

a sort of bronzed-brown (to give you some
notion of it) ; and I never knew how much
she had of it before one morning when I
accidentally plumped up against her as she
was crossing from her own to Phib's bedroom,
with her hair all loose and covering
her like a sea-wave. She plunged away
from me under it with a glorious free movement,
but shut Phib's door so quickly upon
herself that the hind part of her hair,
streaming out as she ran, got jammed, and
I had to open the door to free her. Many
people thought Phib's face prettier than
Nelly's, but they were all women who
thought so, and women are never honest
in opinions of this kind ; any way, I liked
my own taste best. Her grey eyes and low
forehead and little ears, with a lovely curve
clown the cheek to a throat as soft and
white as the breast of a rabbit, were things
I have never yet seen matched; and though
her mouth might have been a wee bit large,
it was full of little white teeth, and every

kiss But this is parish talk.

Will doesn't like to hear you singing,
my dear," sung out Phib, quietly. " Men

never know w T hat they ought to like, do
they, Nelly ? "

Well, thought I, that's the truth, anyhow.
But neither Nelly nor I appeared to
take notice of the remark ; she smiled a
little, and looked at me quickly — indeed,
her manner was altogether puzzling.

The old councillor now came in, and we
sat down to breakfast. He was a dried-up
old man, with a dusty face, and he wore a
white hat all the year round, as well as
coloured linen ; so he had other pretensions
to local fame than those which grew out of
his town councillor ship and his acidulated
letters to the papers. He was generally
garrulous at meal-times, and between him
and his daughter the stifles arguments
would rage ; for I have noticed that your
people who are pretty well agreed are
always the fiercest argufiers. This morning,
however, the councillor was unusually
silent ; I believe my going had something
to do with it. Phib asked me what made
me so dull — a mere excuse to tell her father
that I had been annoyed to hear Nell singing
in the garden.

Look here, my dear," said I, " enough's
as good as a feast. Don't you overtake
yourself sometimes ? Perhaps I am fretting
because I have to leave you."

You were once sweethearts, weren't
you ? " said Nelly, demurely.

Would you like to take me with you,
Will ? " asked Phib. " What would you do
with me on board a ship ? "

Perhaps make a figure-head of you," I
answered : " and very fine you'd look."

You have made up your mind not to
ran down and see us before you sail,
Will ? " said the councillor.

Why, Mr. Johnson, I think it's best to
make one good-bye do for all. Handshaking
and G-od-bless-you-ing is no joke to a fellow
when he's leaving what he loves — perhaps
for ever," said I, feeling a lump in my throat.
Here Nelly put a spoon into her cup and
peered into it close.

I hope we shall meet again, my boy,"
said the old man, gloomily ; " though a year
is a longer time for me to look ahead than
it is for you, who have nearly forty years to
serve to come to my age. And though you

vol. i. c

are going to sea, which is reckoned by ns
people ashore but a perilous life at the best,
I don't suppose there's a man living who
would not bet heavily on the chances of
your corning back to look at the old place
once more, as against the chances of my
being alive to welcome you."

He seemed really affected, and Phib was
now looking as grave as a nun at her
prayers. Nell, with her cheek in her hand
like a peach in the cup of a lily — gazed
at the old councillor wistfully : there was
a tear in her eye, but it was as puzzling tome
as all the rest of her conduct, for she
seemed to be thinking more of Mr. Johnson
than of me — if, indeed, she was thinking of
me at all.

But my story does not lie at this ,
nor in Councillor Johnson's house.
So let me clap on a bit of extra canvas and
claw off this shore, for I am afraid I'm too
much of a sailor to feel happy in land-togs,
and the sooner I can get you to sea the
more comfortable I shall feel.

Nelly did not sing again that day — at
least, I didn't catch her singing ; but neither

during the morning nor in the afternoon
did she give me half as much of her company
as I wanted. She seemed to have
made a lover of old Johnson, for she kept
on making excuses to be with him, and her
manner to him was so gentle and loving and
sad, that I never saw the like of it before
in her. It was too hot all that day to leave
the house, but when the sun was low, and
the hush and softness of the early evening
had fallen, I asked Nelly to come with me
for a row on the river, " for the last time,"
and without a word she went for her hat,
passed her hand through my arm, and we
walked slowly down the lanes to the old
boat-house.

The last impression a man takes of his
home before he goes on a long journey is
nearly always the one that lives, and that
comes to him in intervals of silence and
thought when he is far away. Many a time
since, in the lonely night-watches at sea,
has this town of Burmarsh and the country
around it, as they appeared that evening under
the long crimson lines flowing from the west,
whilst in the east loomed a bank of slate-coloured

clouds with golden outlines, against
which the delicate rose-tinted hills stood
out, arisen before my eyes with something
more than the vividness of memory. I have
been ashore in many lands and seen nature
in many shapes of beauty, but I have never
beheld anything comparable to an English
country scene on a summer evening, just
when the sun has waxed low enough to let
one or two large stars shine forth, and when
the green of the trees grows dark against
the deepening blue of the sky, and when the
pelting day-chorus of the birds is over and
only a few melodious notes speak here and
there, and when the brown frog comes out
from under the hedge and leaps athwart
the dust of the road, and when little shrill
twittering arise from the grass around,
whilst the arms of the windmill are at rest,
and only the top windows of the higher
houses are aflame with the sunset, and the
gathering of the peace of the night is beheld
like a presence in the east and can almost
be watched, so to say, coming along with
the shadows.

There were a couple of boats lying alongside

the banks of the river. We got into one
of them, and the man that owned her cast
us adrift, and I rowed for about half a mile,
until we were well in the country away from
the town, when I threw one oar inboard,
and took the other aft with which I steered
the boat, through the aftermost rowlock,
with a light movement of my wrist almost
unnoticed by myself. By this means I kept
the boat in mid-stream, and we drifted down
with the current, which ran here at about
half a mile an horn, whilst I sat close
against my sweetheart in the stern-sheets.

It was a calm and beautiful evening ; the
sun was gone now, but all the sky was ablaze
in the west, and the moon was in the south
ready to throw its light down when the
crimson had faded ; the cows were lowing
impatiently in the meadows, but otherwise
there was a great silence abroad, and only
now and again would we catch sight of a
man, some village labourer, his head and
shoulders visible over the tops of the cornfields,
or trudging along the road that
skirted the river at a distance of a couple
of hundred feet. All about here the river

lay quite open to the sky, the fields flat and
the country treeless, though half an hour's
steady rowing would have brought us to
some lovely scenes : but the river twisted
like a corkscrew, and every turn found the
water of a new complexion — now a kind of
lustrous ash-colour ; now dark and gleaming,
with the faint moon languishing in it ; again,
as it veered to the west, catching the bloodred
light of the sky in that quarter, and
then a dark blue, in imitation of the northern
heaven.

We sat as sweethearts should, both together
; my right arm was around her waist,
and with the other hand I held the oar. She,
the better to sit close to me, removed her
hat, and as she often laid her head upon my
shoulder, and had her ear close to my mouth,
we conversed in such low voices that we
should have been inaudible to any person
sitting forward in the boat. The wonder
that had troubled me that morning when I
heard her singing, and watched her gaily
picking the flowers, was gone now. She
smiled when I recurred to it, and drew
away from me to let me look into her eyes,

as if she preferred that I should find out the
truth for myself in that mirror which she
held up to me, sooner than that she should
speak about it. I felt that I had made too
much of her singing, though still, and even
in this time, I seemed to miss in her manner
something that I cannot define, but that I
felt ought to be there.

Perhaps if ever I had a right to be jealous
of her at all, it was then ; for in a very few
hours now I should be parting from her
for a long year, and such was my love, that
I felt the only thing that would make our
separation bearable would be the power of
thinking that she was as true as a compass
to me, and that I might be sure her heart
and prayers were with me wherever I might
be, and that, though thousands of miles divided
us, she could not be more truly mine
than were she my wife and by my side.
Hence, if I thought of her and watched her
critically on this eve of my departure, you
will think me excused; besides, who can
truly love without jealousy? what sunbeam
but has its shadow ? I believe she
felt that her manner was wanting, and she

tried to mend it by caresses ; but, though
her sadness at times equalled mine, I felt,
as I had been made to feel throughout the
day, that its inspiration was not altogether
owing to me. I noticed tears in her eyes
when we were speaking of Phoebe and the
councillor, and she owned that it made her
cry to think of them.

But why, Nelly, do you cry for them ? "
I asked. " Is anything going to happen?
One would think that they were going away
to sea."

"Vain a silly girl, Will," she answered,
drying her eyes ; and she took my hand in
both hers and pressed it passionately to her
breast, and immediately buried her face and
sobbed bitterly for some moments. I kissed
her once or twice, but let her have her cry
out without offering to speak. This sorrow
I felt I could claim for myself; for the way
she seized my hand made me feel that I
was the object of it ; so I began to cheer
her as well as I could.

"A } r ear is a long time to look forward
to, Nelly, but a short time to look back
upon. It seems but yesterday that I said

good-bye to you when I went away on my
last voyage."

Yes, it will pass, Will; and I hope God
will spare "us both, darling, to witness the
end of it, and be together safe."

Ay, we must hope that indeed, and
pray for it too. But I shall leave you full
of brave hopes. I am pretty sure of getting
a chief-mate's berth next voyage, and we
shall marry upon it, Nelly, and make an
end of this waiting." And I talked again
of the schemes we had repeated to each
other, and got her to smile ; but this cheering
her up was desperate hard work to me,
who was the more miserable of the two, as
I now know. It was like sailing two knots
against a three-knot tide ; it was making
headway through the water, but sternly
over the ground, and I gave it up at last
for fear of breaking down altogether, and
chucked the oars into the rowlocks, and
rowed away back to the boat-house.

"We had the moon with us now, and in
bends of the river the water lay in sheets of
silver. The sky was full of yellow stars, and
in this light the face of Nelly looked plans

I could scarcely remove my eyes
from it ; it seemed unreal, like a memory, as
if she had been here but was now gone, and
her face there was only my imaginations
either hand the land loomed away in a
white mist; the dip of the oars was the
only sound, unless now and again the cheep
of the stream as it met and half-circled the
trunk of some tree whose roots were beneath
the water line. We exchanged but few
words : my heart was too full for speech ;
it gave me pain to articulate ; and Nelly
sat quite still, with her gaze fixed on the
water, and sometimes, when the bend of the
river brought the moon broad upon her, I
could see the tears sparkling in her eyes.
Anon we reached the landing-stage ; I lifted
her out of the boat, and we walked slowly
in the direction of home.

Chapter II.

DOWN THE RIVER.

The Walder share was a full-rigged ship of
eight hundred and. fifty tons, but looked
smaller than this figure of her tonnage
suggests. She had. been built and originally
owned, in Aberdeen, but her owner
having joined the firm to which the 
now belonged, he had brought
his ship with him, and the word u London
" was painted on her stern. The
Scotch are the best shipbuilders in the
world, and the Walder share was always
admired as a beautiful specimen of the
skill of their yards. When I first saw her
she was in dock, lying close against the
wall, her decks forward covered with raffle,
and a litter of dirt and goods amidships.
The ships ahead and astern of her also

helped to muddle her lines ; and yet she
looked, with only the run of her bulwarks
visible, and her beautifully rounded stern,
and her top-gallant forecastle narrowing like
the bows of a yacht, with the same clever
curve and gradual sweep which talks of
speed to the eye, the handsomest vessel of
her kind then in the docks, and a ship fora
sailor to love as he would a sweetheart.
She was coppered to the bends, and painted
green fore and aft with a narrow white
streak ; her stern was elliptical, and in the
graceful bend of it was a broad gilt scroll,
in the midst of which was written her name
and that of her port in small white letters.
Her figure-head was a gilt dolphin, the tail
flemish-coiled, and it overhung a stem as
sharp as a knife, sweeping out and around
in real racing lines. She was heavily
sparred — too heavily, I always thought ;
her lower masts were as bright as mahogany,
and the sun streaked them with fire ; her
fore and main yards were huge spars, and
promised an immense spread of canvas ; she
carried single topsails, and reefs in the fore
and main top-gallant sails, and short royal-mast

heads, which, with her heavy tops,
gave her a man-of-war look. Her decks
were full of brass-work — brass rail across
the break of the poop, brass handmaids to
the poop ladders, brass stanchions for the
life-ropes, brass gratings over the skylights,
brass binnacles, brass belaying-pins for the
mizzen rigging, and even the pump just
abaft the mizzen-mast, that was used for
washing the poop down, was crowned with
brass, so that I reckoned, when I saw all
this, the youngsters would have their hands
full.

The tide serving at half-past two, we got
clear of the docks at that hour on Thursday,
the 26th of June, 1858. The day was a bright
one and hot enough, with a fresh breeze blowing
straight up the river. The ship was now
in very different trim from that she had been
in when I boarded her a week before. Her
decks were as white as holy stoning could
bring them ; the brass-work just made them
a broad glare of light in the brilliant sunshine
; aloft every bunt was as smooth as a
pillow, all the running gear hauled taut, the
standing rigging like wire, and the whole

ship a beautiful picture. A crowd of idlers
cheered us as we went out, and in a few
minutes the tug had got us into mid-stream,
and the noble ship was gliding down the
river, one of the stateliest fabrics which ever
swam upon it.

Now that we were out of the docks there
was little to be done ; there were two hands
at the wheel, and most of the men forward
on the forecastle watching the shore as it
slipped past us. This going down the river
is the most melancholy part of the voyage
out to men who make any trouble of leaving
home. The scenes which one passes are so
familiar, that, as one by one they drop astern
or vanish round the bends of the river, a
new wrench is given to the heart. Yoti look
at the clustered houses, and at the wharves
with the black old billy boys scattering
alongside ; the cranes slowly rising, or drop <
ping ponderous burdens at the end of massive
chains ; at the people stopping their work to
gaze at your ship as she passes by ; at the
wherry bobbing in the swell left by the
paddles of the tug, with its solitary occupant
who drops his breast upon his oars to

remove his hat and wave it ; at the green
fields away over the slimy river-banks and
the dim country beyond them ; and if sorrow
is to be felt by you at all, it will be felt now,
as one by one these scenes die out in the
distance, and every yard of the soil that
goes past deepens the sense that good-bye
has been said indeed, and that England —
the old beloved home — will soon be behind
the great ocean towards which your brave
ship is steering.

And yet, on such a day as this was and
amid such a scene, the most despondent
mind must have found something in the
general freshness and beauty to lift it up.
The river was unusually full of all sorts and
descriptions of vessels. Now a huge screw,
with her bows as tall as a hill and her propeller
half out of the water, churning up a
little mountain of foam, would pass us ;
then it would be a ship in tow, going up the
river, deep in the water, her sides worn with
the struggles of a long voyage, her sails
clumsily furled, her anchors rusty, and her
crew with their heads over the bulwarks
pointing out the places ashore ; or a crazy

old collier squelching along under squared
yards, with her greasy sails fitting her as
prettily as a boy's clothes would a man — a
red nightcap at the galley door, a grinning
boy, with his face as black as a nigger's,
astride of the jibboom, and a man at the
crazy little wheel, looking first up and then
down, and up and down again, and so on,
up and down, as though he were a machine
with all the works in his neck. Or a fast
steamer, bound for some French, or Irish,
or north-country port would pass us, the
skipper on the bridge, a crowd of passengers
aft, who would stare at us through glasses
and sometimes wave a hat or a handkerchief.
When we were abreast of Greenwich,
a Gravesend pleasure-boat came up with us
hand over fist, densely crowded with passengers,
and a band of music on a sort of
midship platform. The captain of her
wishing, I suppose, to give his patrons the
benefit of all the sights which came in his
way, sheered his vessel to port, which brought
her rather alarmingly close to us ; so much
so that I thought he would have been into
us, and sprang aft to tell him to mind his

helm; but he steadied in time, and went
seething past, the band striking up " Hearts
of Oak " — a strain which our men seemed
very much to relish, for they cheered the
steamer and yelled out answers to her passengers
; and so the gay little vessel rushed
ahead, every creature on board, even the
little children, waving hat or hand or handkerchief:
but for some moments we were
nearly suffocated with the smoke from her
funnels.

The grandeur of the Thames lies in its
wealth of human interests ; yet as a river
it is one of the noblest, and if it flowed
anywhere but in England, Englishmen
would never be weary of praising it. I had
passed up and down it many times before,
but though there was much to cloud my
mind and dull the edge of enjoyment, it had
never more impressed me nor filled me with
greater pride than on this day. The sunshine
was broad and searching, and all the
various colours of the scene were extremely
vivid and the contrasts very sharp. Off
Woolwich seemed to me the finest part of
this gay show, for just at this point a great

VOL. I. D

number of passing vessels came by chance
together, and the river was covered by a
whole fleet of ships big and little, amid
which some steamers plied cautiously, sometimes
backing and then forging ahead,
whilst from one vessel to another shouts
were re-echoed, and yards were boxed about
and the men went springing here and there
like kangaroos. The breeze was very fresh
and the water rough with it, and the dance
of the sun in the river was almost blinding ;
the little vessels upward bound had it all
their own way, and pushed along with a
heap of snow at their fore feet ; but there
was a number of colliers, boys, barges, and
vessels of that kind beating down, and as
they watched from shore to shore, shoeing on
their heels to run athwart the wind on
another tack, it looked like a quadrille or
country-dance of ships, and there was quite
as much dignity and stateliness and bowing
as the vessels filled and bent over as was
wanted to furnish out the image. Shortly
after we had passed Greenville, a crazy old
brig, with a boom foresail and stump topgallant
masts, and sails as full of holes asa

beggar's professional suit, came swirling
around and plumped into a taut little barque
that was beating cautiously down under
topsails. The collision hove the barque up
into the wind, the brig came round, and ina
minute there they lay locked, as if they
had got grappling-irons on board one another,
grinding against each other's side, resembling
two alley wenches grabbing at each
other's hair and pounding with their fists.
The brig's jibboom snapped off as though it
had been a carrot ; then after some wild
buckling down came the slender fore topgallant
mast of the barque with all its
hamper of sails and gear ; immediately after
the two old-fashioned starboard channels of
the brig were ground off as neatly as the top
of an egg sliced by a knife, and there the
vessels lay, a couple of wrecks. By this
time we had come abreast of them, and the
confusion on their decks was something to
remember. Some of the men were rolling
about like casks over the raffle ; others had
shrunk right aft to be clear of the spars
which were tumbling forward ; the swearing
and fist-shaking were triumphs of maritime

art in this particular branch of the profession.
However, the damage done was nearly all
aloft, the barque being the worst sufferer,
and already there was a small fleet of boats
putting off, whilst a tug steered straight for
the unfortunate vessels, so that what we
had seen was evidently the worst of a bad
job.

It was generally understood that we were
to bring up off Gravesend in order to ship
a few passengers. When Gravesend hove
in sight orders were given to see the chain
cable all clear for running, and when we
were abreast of the town the tug let fall
our tow-rope, and after we had swum a few
minutes the anchor was let go, the cable
roared through the hawse-hole, and the ship
swung with her stern down the river. So
here we were holding on tight again to
English ground.

The captain went ashore, the river pilot
and the custom-house officers going along
with him, and the ship was left in the
charge of the chief officer. The decks were
soon cleared, everything made snug and
ready, an anchor watch set, and the hands

went below. My share of the work being
done, I came aft, where I found the chief
mate — a little red-haired Welshman,
Thomas by name, the smallest man I was
ever shipmates with. When I had first
seen him I could scarcely keep from laughing,
for his dress was as odd as his body
was little : consisting of very wide blue
cloth trousers, which held the wind as the
skin of a sausage holds its meat, and made
his legs look like bolsters ; brown velvet
waistcoat with gilt buttons, over which lay
the bight of a stout gold chain ; a red silk
handkerchief with fly-away ends, which were
always over his shoulders ; blue linen, and
a cloth cap with a broad peak, along the
scuppers of which was rove half a foot of
gold lace. He had little quick blue eyes,
which played in their sockets like a ball on
the top of a jet of water, a bush of red hair
under his chin, and long red eyebrows
which he could have soaped into points,
had he chosen, as a Frenchman does his
moustache. He was a regular little nautical
dandy, but by this time I had got used to
his rig and appearance and was well disposed

to like him, for I could see that he
had immediately taken a fancy to me, and
though I had not as yet had any opportunity
of judging him as a seaman, I had
found him very smart and sensible in dock.
He told me he had a captain's certificate,
but could not get a berth; this was his
second voyage as chief mate of the Walters
but his first with Captain Flanders,
the man who now commanded her.

I found him gazing gloomily at the shore,
in which occupation I was quite ready to
join him. Now that the bustle of bringing
up was over, and the ship at rest, and the
shifting interests of the river gone, my
heart fell heavy in me again, and my
thoughts went away to Burmarsh, and
Nelly, and the happy, loving hours I had
spent and which were now over. Mr.
Thomas was sitting on the aftermost skylight,
his little feet well above the deck,
and was rubbing his nose down with a sad
look on his little face.

"Well, Mr. Lee, here we are, sir," he
said; "old England broad on both beams,
though the old hooker ought to be going

the road she's pointing to to please me.
I hope it may be well with us all, Mr. Lee ;
though, damme, sir, no man could have the
cheek to pray for a better ship under him
than the W alder share e ; I never heard of
such a run as she has. Follow the curve
of her to the eyes, sir : she's like a dream,
something too fine for mortal hands." He
pointed forward with his chin, like a negro,
still rubbing his nose.

"Ay, she's a beauty, Mr. Thomas; but,
as you say, she's bound the wrong way, and
lovely as she is, I'd rather be aboard of that
old Geordie there who's making a fair wind
of it home."

"And so would I, Mr. Lee — more than
you, perhaps ; for I dare say your hankering
is only after a few knock about pleasures.
But I'm leaving a wife, and a wife is a
solemn thing to leave for a spell, long or
short."

"I am with you there, sir," said I, with
a warmth that made him lift his eyes to my
face.

Why, are you married ? " he inquired.

I told him I was not, but that I was as

good as married, for that my sweetheart
and I were pledged to each other, and that
if she was not yet my wife in the law, she
was so in my love, and that parting from
her this time was the cruellest necessity
that had ever been forced upon me since I
was old enough to recollect.

He listened attentively, rubbing his nose
all the time, and then exclaimed, " Well,
I suppose I'm not the only man who has
to leave his wife. I dare say, now, there
are a dozen fellows forward who are leaving
wives, and children too. I've only been
married a month, and marriage when it's
fresh is like a new cement, that makes the
pieces united pretty hard to come apart,
though in time, faith, they'll fall of themselves."
He coughed dryly, and burying his
hands in his pockets, said, " But I've left
her snug enough, in three good rooms with
brand-new furniture, and all my savings ever
since I went to sea, in her name at the bank.
She has her sister to keep her company,
and as time flies more quickly than people
reckon who count forwards, I don't know
that there is much to blubber over."

So saying, lie jerked himself on to the
deck as though he had done with that
subject. I spoke to him about Captain
Flanders, and asked if he knew anything
about him.

Not very much," he answered. " Only
I can tell you what an old shipmate of
mine told me when he heard that Captain
Flanders was appointed to the Walder share
though, mind, I don't believe it — that
there's madness in his family on his father's
side ; that his father hung himself ; and one
of his brothers, who was in the Church, used
to make nothing of changing his clothes
with a beggar in the public street in broad
daylight, shifting himself down to his very
breeks, and that he dropped preaching at last
because he thought the devil always got
into the pulpit with him : but what became
of him my friend didn't tell me. I can't say
whether there's much religion in the skipper
or not. He has a rather monkish eye. I
hear he got command of this ship through
the influence of the gentleman to whom she
originally belonged. It should have been
my post by rights," he said, bitterly,
beginning to pace the deck.

We stumped the length of the poop
together for a half-hour, talking on the
prospects of the voyage, the time it would
take us, our several experiences of doubling
the Horn, Callao (to which port we were
bound direct), and so forth. By this time
most of the men had come on deck again,
and were clustered on the forecastle. I
believe the size of the chief mate amused
them, for I caught them looking our way
pretty often, with a broad grin ; but Mr.
Thomas took no notice — indeed, in all the
time I was thrown with him I never discovered
that he had the least sense of his
smallness, or fancied himself other than of
a stout and prepossessing figure. My own
height was not above five feet nine, yet I
felt myself a giant alongside of him ; and
for every stride of mine he had to take four,
so that his little feet, cased in varnished
leather boots, regularly twinkled as we
walked. However, in this half-hour we
greatly improved our good opinion of one
another ; I found him an honest, simple,
manly little fellow, with clear, sharp views
and a brisk capacity of words, candid to

excess, and a man who had been to sea a
long while and sailed in many kinds of
ships. This was a very good beginning.
To be associated with a mate I could like,
and who was evidently willing to leave it
to me to distinguish and appreciate the
difference between our relative posts, was
a great gain to me ; and if the skipper was
only half as good a fellow as his chief mate,
the voyage would be a comfortable one, sofar
as the work aft was concerned.

Our crew was a large one for a ship of
the size of the W alder share, even in those
days when a ship's complement was assessed
on a very different scale from that
we now hear of. We had thirty-three able
and ordinary seamen, including a boatswain
and two mates; and six idlers, consisting
of a steward, cook, cook's mate, carpenter,
carpenter's mate, and butcher : so that a
cry of " all hands " would fill the decks with
thirty-nine hands, whereof five only were
boys, and this without counting the mates.
However, it afterwards turned out that no
less than nine of the hands were what are
called " shilling a mothers ; " that is, men

who had shipped merely for the voyage out
for the nominal pay of a shilling a month ;
so, unless we took in more hands at Callao,
our working strength on the homeward
voyage would not equal what it was now.
As it was, we had a very tolerable ship's
'company, and I might hope that even in a
sudden gale a great deal was to be done
with the watch on deck.

Such of the crew as were visible looked
promising enough, as they sat smoking on
the forecastle or leant upon the rail, gazing
at the shore or the ships which lay at
anchor near us. They were, of course, a
mixed body, and the negro, conspicuous with
his red shirt, broad grin, and bland eyes,
was not wanting among them, you may be
sure ; there were also several Danes, Norwegians,
and Americans — these latter very
active rascals — and two or three south-countrymen,
Italians, and a sprinkling of
black-browed scowbanks from Mediterranean
ports ; but the English preponderated,
and on the whole we had a good
and plentiful crew.

Our cargo consisted chiefly of hardware,

railway metals, brass, iron, and other metal
goods ; a heavy cargo, which might give
the ship a little too much stability by
making her too deep. The W alder shire was
not a passenger ship, that is, a liner; but
she had accommodation for a dozen cuddy
passengers, and three of her cabins were '
let and the luggage of the people in them,
and the people were to be on board next
day. I did not know who the passengers
were, nor their names, but Mr. Thomas said
that two of them were women. I told him
I regretted that there were any passengers
at all, as they generally gave a good deal
of trouble, were always about, and were a
kind of hindrance to the freedom of the
cuddy. Mr. Thomas agreed with me, though,
as a sea dandy, I dare say he was not sorry
in his heart that there were to be women
among us to admire his little feet and
pretty clothes.

The weather still held beautifully fine,
with as rich a coloured sky overhead as
ever I had seen in the tropics or in the
Pacific. The chief mate and I dined alone;
the captain was still ashore, and there was

some doubt whether he would come aboard
again that night. The W alder share's cuddy
was a short one, and extended but a few
feet before the mizzen-mast; but what there
was of it was very handsome : all the
panelling painted white, with gold lines ;
the mizzen-mast that pierced it, and to
which one end of the table was affixed,
wreathed about with carved oak foliage, and
the whole place looking more like a little
drawing-room than a ship's cabin. My
berth was on the starboard side, just under
the poop ladder, and the window of it
looked on to the quarter-deck; Mr. Thomas's
was the corresponding cabin on the port
side ; the captain's berth was right aft,
under the wheel ; and between, on either
hand, were the passenger's cabins and the
steward's pantry.

After dinner I went on deck again, carrying
my pipe with me, and left Mr. Thomas
below. I was not sorry to be quit of him
for a spell ; he had more to say about
his wife and home arrangements than
interested me, and I wanted to think over
what I was leaving, and to be alone for a

bit. I perched myself on a hencoop, and
lighted my pipe and looked around me.

The wind had dropped, and the current
had swung the ship with her head up the
river. The sun was setting over the port
bow, and Gravesend lay red in its light,
the windows burning, and the whole town
looked massive and heavy in the glow which
magnified it. This red light was on the
river too, veining the masts of the vessels
at anchor with lances of fire, and filling the
air with a purple haze, amid which every
rope glanced with the glint of a spider's
web, while the canvas lay upon the black
yards as though a storm of snow had fallen
and lined them ; and the brass-work was
filled with ruby-coloured stars ; and the
glass in the port-holes notched cones of
quivering light in the running water, that
grew dark as it swept broadening down the
river, and gradually glassing its surface as
the wind grew fainter with the sinking of
the sun, until there was not a breath of air
perceptible even to the moistened finger ;
and the sounds from the shore came floating
through the motionless atmosphere with

a muffled tone, with the rattle of a winch
on board a near ship, or the wail of a concertina,
and the gurgling of the tide as it
chattered round the rudder just under me,
and went twisting in little holes away,
giving to the eye the idea that we were
moving

There was a large American ship at
anchor about three cables' length abreast
of us ; a big, black, soft-wood built ship,
with staysail yards crossed, and long, slender
whips of masts stayed aft. When the
moon threw down her light, this vessel
grew into a very solemn object — looming,
dark, soundless, with her masthead searching
the stars. I was looking at her, and
wondering where her crew was stowed
away, as I had never once noticed a human
being aboard of her, when I suddenly saw
a pale object fall from her forecastle, whiz
down her huge black bow, and strike the
water with a loud splash. There is a kind
of softness in the splash of a human body
upon the water which never deceives the
ear that has once heard it, and I sprang
to my feet to give the alarm : but before

I could sing out, a powerful voice on board
the American shouted, " Man overboard ! "
And then might have been witnessed a
sample of Yankee smartness. In an instant
half a dozen lights flashed about her, a
swarm of men bounded aft, the port quarter-boat
with four hands in her dropped from
the davits, the blocks squealed as the falls
were overhauled, and then followed the
regular grind of oars in thole pins ; in a
few seconds the boat was some distance
astern of the ship. The whole business
had not occupied three minutes, and no job
was ever more smartly rushed on board
a man-of-war. I awaited the result with
breathless expectation. Brilliant as the
moonlight was, it only enabled me to discern
the outline of the boat on the dark water ;
I could see her dodging here and there,
sometimes stationary, but gradually receding
further and further, until she must
have wandered out of ear-shot, for twice a
strong nasal voice hailed her, but no answer
came back. After twenty minutes, I made
out the boat pulling up the river : she carne
sweeping along, the moonlight glittering in

VOL. I. E

the foam under her, and some one on board
the American sang out —

Have you got him ? "

No, sir: we can't see him anywhere!
He has sunk, for we followed dead in his
wake, and we must have seen him had he
been afloat."

They got the boat alongside, hooked on
the falls, in a few seconds the boat hung at
the davits again, and the great ship loomed
black and silent. Such is the life of a
sailor ! He drops into a nameless grave,
and no one knows whose child he is, or if
there is ever a heart that will ache over his
long absence.

This little incident depressed me greatly,
and to rally myself I took several turns
along the poop. Our own ship lay like a
vision on the breathless surface of the noble
river. The moon was now asserting her
full power, and had flung a haze on the air,
and everything looked unreal and unsubstantial
in it. Occasionally a steamer
would pass ; but long before she hove insight,
you might hear the throb of her
engines like the pulse of a running giant.

Her coloured lights brightening upon the
dark water, the smoke pouring along the
stars, the water crackling under her stern
like rotten brushwood under the foot, her
illuminated port-holes giving her the look
of a marine monster full of eyes, the dusky
figures upon her bridge, the scoop, scoop
of the screw, or the rhythmic beat of the
paddles, were all incidents of one of those
spectacles of which no familiarity can
moderate the beauty. Or presently oozing
out of the further darkness would drift a
barge with sails as motionless as carven
wood, her skipper resolute to " hold on all"
with the tide and take as much headway
as he could get out of that sort of navigation
; she w T ould float through the gloom
like a phantom until she reached the belt
of moonlight on the water, when what was
black of her would turn a deep indigo, and
what w r as white silver, and so she would
pass away. Gravesend was a galaxy of
lights, but the shores on either side of it
and across the river stretched away silent
and pale, and the moan and fret of the
current under the counter made the imagination

find the flat and ashen land very
desolate and sad-looking. There were
voices singing in some of the ships around
us, and here a fiddle was scraping and
there a concertina tuning up : our own
ship and the big black Yankee next us
were the only silent ones, but our being
outward bound would account for the quietness
of the men. Many of them still hung
about the forecastle, and some few talked
in low voices in the waist ; a light in the
boatswain's berth on the port side of the
forecastle streamed across the deck, and
illuminated the lower part of the foremast,
and threw into relief the huge spare booms
piled atop of the long boat and the range
of chain cable and coils of running rigging ;
but on either side this light the darkness
was profound, for the high bulwark intercepted
the moonlight and threw a deep
shadow.

All this while, though my eye noticed the
matters I have here set down, my mind
was running on my sweetheart, and at one
time so heavy a fit of depression came over
me that I could scarcely contain myself,

and was almost thankful when Mr. Thomas
came on deck and joined me, as his presence
obliged me to act a part, and so I gradually
rallied. We lingered on deck until the
steward came to say that the grog was on
the cuddy table, after which I went the
rounds of the ship to see that all was right,
and then turned in.

CHAPTER III.

A FOG IN THE ENGLISH CHANNEL.

Next morning was fine, with a strong northwesterly
wind, which, however, did not
promise to last. The captain was on deck
when I turned out, and I heard that he had
come on hoard late the preceding night.
There was nothing to be done until we had
shipped our passengers and the tug was
alongside. All the ships which had been
anchored near us last night were gone, and
the river was full of vessels making the
most of this stout breeze, and sweeping past
us in processions. I breakfasted with the
captain and Mr. Thomas at half-past eight,
and this was the first time I had sat
at table with Captain Flanders. After
what the chief mate had told me, I took
some interest in watching him, the better

to form an opinion for myself, and learn, if
I could, from his face and talk something
of his character, that I might have my cue.
He was certainly a very odd-looking man,
with a long face and peaked forehead, his
head, indeed, as nearly resembling an egg
as anything could well be ; large, dark,
gloomy eyes, sunk deep in their sockets,
and overhung with coarse iron-grey eyebrows
; his nose was a handsome one, an
aquiline, and it made him look like a lord,
it gave him a fine patrician air ; he had
no hair on his face ; his lips were thin and
pale ; he was taller than I, but without
breadth, and by the fling of his trousers
as he walked and the cut of his wrists, I
guessed he was little more than a skeleton.
Nature had exhausted herself in producing
his nose. He had been to sea all his life,
but never was there a man who looked
less like a sailor than he. Indeed, he had
the air of a lawyer ; I say a lawyer, but
any calling would do that kept a man out
of the sun, and shut him up with papers
and cobwebs and smoke for twelve hours in
every day.

He was civil enough to us both, talked of
the voyage, the trim of the ship, asked questions
of Mr. Thomas about her qualities,
and told us about the passengers ; that one
was an invalid lady bent on doubling the
Horn, to see what that would do for her ;
that the others were a Spanish merchant
and his wife, who was an Englishwoman ;
and the fourth a Scotch engineer, who had
got some railway job to carry out at Lima.
On this occasion I cannot say that I noticed
anything odd in his manner ; he talked like
a gentleman — I mean he used good words,
and delivered them with that clean, easy
articulation which the best education — so
I have noticed — will not qualify a man of
inferior birth to arrive at. His dress was
strictly a landsman's : cutaway coat, old-fashioned
stock and pin, and tall hat. Sofar
all seemed well with him ; and as he
came from a religious stock, and gave himself
no sea-airs, I might suppose he would
give the crew only good words.

A little before one the tug came alongside,
and the news went along that the
passengers were coming off the shore with

the pilot. The order was now given toman
the windlass. All hands tailed on,
and the clank of the windlass was like the
sound of a giant's hammer on a forge ; and
this was the only sound, until suddenly a
hoarse voice broke into a song, and there
sprang out of thirty throats a hurricane-chorus
that might have awakened the
echoes of the distant hills. Then followed
a number of orders in rapid succession :
Get the outer jib loosed ready for hoisting
! " " A hand aft here to the wheel ! "
"Look out there for that line from the
tug!" "Bring the gangway steps along
here and bear a hand ! " The end of a line
cleverly flung from the tug pitched on to
the forecastle ; the ponderous tow-rope was
bent on to it and paid out overboard. There
was a little crowd of persons round the
gangway to receive the passengers, and
hand up what odds and ends of parcels
and luggage they had brought off with
them ; but having gone forward just then,
and happening to stand in the very eyes
of the ship, I could see but little of what
was doing on the quarter-deck, and scarcely

caught a glimpse of Captain Flanders leading
a thickly veiled lady into the cuddy,
followed by another lady leaning on the
arm of a gentleman, behind whom stalked
the fourth and last passenger.

The pilot was now on the forecastle — a
short, thick-set man, in a rough coat that
reached below his knees, a fur cap, and a
white wool shawl round his throat.

Are you all ready ? " he bawled through
his hands to the tug.

"Ay, ay!"

Man the windlass. Get your anchor up
smartly, my lads ! "

Once more the windlass clanked heavily
and quickly, and a loud chorus broke forth.

The anchor's off the ground, sir ! "

Starboard your helm ! "

The paddles of the tug revolved, and rana
sluice of white water against the bows of
the ship ; the bight of the tow-rope lifted,
and the huge warp stiffened ; and with the
windless clanking, and the men raising
their echoing chorus, and the Union Jack
at the peak and the house-flag at the main
standing out like boards, the W alder si tare
glided through the water.

The fresh breeze was something to make
the most of. All the fore and aft canvas
was set, the yards braced up, and we went
racing after the tug, catching the broad
surface of foam she threw off full on our
bows, and spreading it far out on either side
of us. If the breeze only held, and the
W alder share had the sailing qualities she
looked to have, we might hope to have
given the English Channel our heels by
Saturday morning ; but already the blue
of the sky was growing weak, losing its
rich tone, and something of the bite was
taken out of the sunshine. This looked
as if the breeze was to slacken.

Everything was now snug forward, the
anchor catted and fished, and the decks
clear. I went to the forecastle to give the
pilot a message, and when I returned I
found three of the passengers on deck
talking to the captain, who, the pilot having
charge, had nothing to do but walk,
eat, and sleep as it pleased him.

The Spanish merchant, whose name was
Espinosa, was a complete scarecrow of a
man, with a hollow, gaunt, and sallow face,

out of which stuck an immense hooked
nose. His hair hung in ringlets about his
ears, but all the lower part of his face,
together with his mouth, were bushed up
with a beard and moustache as black as
ebony. His fingers were covered with
rings, and every ring had a brilliant, and
every time he moved his hands in the sunshine
they flashed like the blade of a
sword. His wife was a fat blonde, with a
very pale, docile face ; not pretty, and yet
not unpleasing. I supposed she was forty
by the cut of her hull, but she was dressed
like a girl of eighteen, in a smart hat and
long feather, and a tight-fitting jacket that
developed her run with alarming accuracy.
She, too, was richly figged out with jewellery,
and the gold chain round her neck was
thick enough to have served as ground
tackle for a thirty-ton cutter. The Scotch
engineer, Mr. Black, was a broad-faced,
freckled man with pale-blue eyes, but no
other facial distinguishing that I can
remember. You could smell the snuff on
him six fathoms off when he was to windward.


They all stood together aft, Madam
Espinosa (as I called her) apparently very
much delighted with the scene, and her
husband gesticulating like a windmill.

We were now clear of the Lower Hope
Each, and heading a good east, with
Thames Haven sloping past us gaily, and
all to starboard the flat, desolate stretches
of mud, called marshes, to which no sunshine
could furnish any sort of attraction.
I know what South African river mud is, and
I know what' Irish mud is, and I have also
seen some pretty mud up the Peiho river ;
but for its consistence, colour, adhesiveness,
and unmitigated offensiveness in all and
every respect, there is nothing that ever I
have seen to equal Thames mud, and particularly
the mud that lines the south side
of the river, off the reaches through which
the W alder share was now towing.

As I had expected, the breeze dropped as
the sun declined, and before we were abreast
of Sheerness, all the air I could feel was
caused by the motion of the ship. The
water became a speckless, burnished surface,
and the motionless sailing vessels

/

which we passed were reflected in it line
for line. Calm it was indeed, for now we
were literally breasting the waters of the
German Ocean ; yet the swell that seems
to haunt every sea in its repose — the placid
breathing, so to speak, of the sleeping
monster — was wanting here ; and our
flying jibboom end never lifted nor sank
an inch above or below the point of the
horizon towards which it curved. But
already the horizon was as thick as mud,
and before Stepped was astern of us we
were raising on the port bow, a long, low,
defined white line, with sinuous arms, like
twisted columns, forking out of it into the
unwholesome blue.

Where the air came from to move this
curtain of vapour I could not guess ; but
it was unrolling itself — just as you might
run a roll of carpet along the floor — clown
away to the south, and it left all behind
it, as it went, as thick as a feather bed.
It was curious to see it swallow up the
vessels it met as it pushed its way forwards.
Up to the very moment of contact
there would be some craft — say a little

fore and aft schooner — as clean to the eye
as a black and white drawing, with her
white sails gleaming in the water like the
wings of an albatross, and the sunshine
broad upon her ; then pouff ! she would
vanish as you extinguish an image in a
soap-bubble by touching it ; and meanwhile
the horizon grew narrower and narrower as
the tug went on towing us towards this
moving continent of vapour.

The pilot kept a look-out ahead from the
forecastle.

I suppose he'll bring up when he gets
into that business," I said to Mr. Thomas.

Well, he's got a clear enough course
round the North Foreland," he answered.
He may hold on until he nears the Goodwin
unless it clears."

The sun was still shining on us, and the
contrast of the fog ahead and the clear
weather around us and astern was striking
enough. We had long before let go the
staysail halliards, and were now towing
with square yards. All of a sudden I
noticed the water darkening in the westward,
and in about ten minutes a light

breeze was blowing along the decks over
our stern. The fog which stood awaiting
ns like a wall began to travel under this
pressure, and something resembling the
phenomenon of a ship advancing upon a
fog, and a fog receding before a ship, was
now exhibited.

We shall get it all the same," said Mr.
Thomas ; " sooner or later, and sooner than
later, hang it ! "

The truth is, the English Channel is one
of those places every sailor is glad to get
quit of ; nothing sets sailors growling more
than having to handle their ground tackle
when once the anchor is at the bathed. A
fog makes a regular hornet's nest of a ship ;
it is all groping and blind staring, and you
are never sure that the next moment will
not bring the iron bow of a steamer grinding
into you. However, for the present the
fog was journeying our way and making a
stern chase of it, and so we might hope to
round the Foreland in the sunshine, though
we should find the fog waiting for us behind
it.

A night-glass belonging to me was in my

cabin, and I went below to fetch it, thinking
I might put it to some account presently.
Everybody belonging aft was on
deck, as I believed ; and being thirsty, I
went along the cuddy to the steward's pantry,
which was a small cabin abreast of the
companion steps, for a glass of sherry and
water. The steward was on deck. I entered
the pantry, found what I wanted, and
was in the act of returning, when the door
of the cabin immediately opposite was
opened, and there stood Helen Williams.

I stared at her, doubting my senses ; my
heart seemed to stop beating ; I turned pale
and stood as one thunderstruck ; I clutched
hold of the cuddy table, for the sudden
great surprise made me feel sick ; my head
swam ; I stood transfixed ; I could not believe,
I say, that what I saw was real. Only
a moment before I had been thinking of her
and our farewell to each other that day, a
week gone ; and now there she stood, she
whom but a moment before I believed was
still at Burmarsh, and from whom only that
morning I had received a letter, posted at
Burmarsh, and written by her.

VOL. I. F

My God, Nelly ! " I cried : "is it you ?
How came you here ? Great God, what a
surprise ! "

She ran round the table and threw her
arms about me, and burst into tears.

Oh, Will ! " she cried, " I could not bear
to be separated from you ! A whole long year
was too much to bear. Do not be angry with
me, Will. Oh, Will, kiss me, dear, and tell
me you are glad that I am with you."

Glad ! — angry! — why, this is a dream,
surely ! " I cried. " Did Mr. Johnson know
of this ? and Phoebe ? And why did not you
tell me ? What has your love made you
do, dear ? Why, we shall be a whole year
away, and how can you stand so long a
voyage ? Why, this is enough to drive me
mad ! You — alone — daring all this for me !
Why have you done it, Nelly ? "

Scarcely knowing what I said, and still
doubting that it was all real, I drew away
and grasped her hands and looked at her,
until the sight of her face, and the thought
of the love that had made her do this thing,
overmastered me, and for some moments T
durst not venture to speak.

Meanwhile she stood watching every
change in my face, not daring to address
me, and growing red and then white, and
her hands trembled in mine. I have often
thought since that my great surprise was
cruel, as serving as a kind of rebuke to her
for this unparalleled action ; and yet when
I consider that, when she broke upon me
thus, I really and truly believed her to
be some hundreds of miles distant, and
imagined her at Burmarsh in the old house
in which I had left her, and that I had then
a letter in my pocket written by her but
the day before, in which, it is true, she said
that she trusted God would permit us to
meet sooner than I had any hope of, though
it would have been impossible for me to
discover the least hint of her intention to
follow me in that letter — I say, when I
reflect upon all this, I am not surprised
that her sudden apparition should have
terrified me and drawn me away for a while
from all sense of her courage and love which
had impelled her to act in this manner.

Presently, hardly knowing what I did, I
folded her to my heart, though immediately

after a fright seized me, to think of her as
being alone with only me as her protector,
and a terrible long sea voyage, with all its
perils, before her.

Nelly," I exclaimed, "I must not let
yon take this journey. The captain can
put you ashore at Deal. It is not too late,
though it will be soon. It is better that
you should forfeit any money you have paid
than go this long voyage. I will tell the
captain the truth, and ask him to land you
at Deal. Why, how came you to do this,
Nelly?"

Now that I am with you I shall stop
with you, Will. If you set me ashore you
will break my heart," she answered, in a
firm voice, though her eyes swam with
tears. "I do not fear the voyage; it will
be a great change. And could I be more
comfortable in Mr. Johnson's house than
I am here ? " says she, looking around her ;
and oh, Will ! could you bear to part
with me now ? ' '

And saying this, she laid my hand against
her cheek — an old sweet caress of hers —
and kissed my hand. At this moment the

cuddy grew dark, by which I knew we had
overtaken the fog, and were in it; at the
same time I heard the pilot's hoarse voice
hailing the tug from the forecastle.

"I shall have to leave you," said I, " to
go on deck, for it would not do to be missed
and found here with you," I exclaimed, the
perception of a new embarrassment flashing
upon me. And, indeed, already suspecting
that we might have been observed through
the skylight, under which we were almost
directly standing, I led her to her cabin and
quitted her with a kiss, but without another
word.

So many different feelings distracted me,
that it was fortunate there was no work forme
to do when I gained the deck, or
certainly it must have been thought I had
taken leave of my senses. The fog had
closed densely around us ; there was still a
little wind, but it only blew the fog athwart
us, which was so thick that the tug ahead
was barely visible, a mere looming shadow.
She had slackened her speed, and we were
now moving slowly through the water.
I found Mr. Thomas at the break of the

poop, and asked if he knew whether we
were going to bring up ?

"Not yet," he answered. "The pilot
doesn't want that trouble, and who does?
He has just sent aft to say that he believes
this fog will lift presently, and that if we
tow slowly there'll be no risk."

I crossed over to the starboard side of the
poop, where, with one hand on a backstay,
I stood buried in thought, my eyes fixed on
the water, which went by quietly, and was
as white as bright steel in the fog that had
brought the horizon to within a biscuit's
throw. I ought not to weary you with my
reflections here ; but I should say that my
sweetheart's being in the ship made clear
everything that had puzzled me, especially
her seeming want of sorrow when we parted,
and her tears when we spoke, that last
evening when we were on the river, of Mr.
Johnson and Phoebe.

I looked about me to judge whether, if I
should go below again for a few minutes to
talk to her, I should be missed. There was
nothing to do ; the captain, with the Spaniard
and his wife, were walking up and down the

poop, and Mr. Black had joined the chief
mate. I was bound to hear the first call,
and so I went below and made my way
into the cuddy, taking first a squint at the
pantry to make sure the steward was not
about.

The cuddy was now as dark as if the
evening had closed around. I tapped on
Nelly's door, and she asked who that was ?
On my replying, she instantly came out.

I cannot rest until I have heard more
of your story," said I; " although I ought
to remain on deck. Even now your being
here seems a dream, and were you to vanish
as I stand talking to you I should not behalf
so surprised as I am at holding your
dear hand and looking into your eyes."

The blood rose to her face as she
answered : "I did not intend that you
should know I was on board until we were
out of sight of land. Phoebe told me you
would be more angry than glad to see me,
and so you were, dear ; but I don't think
you are angry now r ," says she, smiling.
You will not tell the captain to land meat
Deal?"

Have you really the courage to face
this long voyage — and alone ? "

Not alone, Will ; and whilst you are
with me I shall have plenty of courage."

I could have taken her in my arms, for
my very heart was fired hy the look that
accompanied her words.

"Will," says she, smoothing the back of
my hand and keeping her face down, " as
I told you, a whole year seemed such a
terrible long while to be separated, that as
the weeks rolled on with us at Burmarsh I
felt my heart would break when the time
arrived to say good-bye, and one day I
made up my mind that I would go out in
your ship as a passenger, so that we might
be together. I told Phoebe, but she would
not hear of it for some time, and threatened
to tell you and her father ; but at last she
thought it was very natural I should wish
to be with you, and she owned a year was a
long time to wait, and that a sea-voyage
might do me good. Besides, she felt I
should be as safe with you as with her at
Burmarsh. Indeed, she owned to me that
if she had been alone in the world she would

have joined me, for she thought a sea-voyage
a delightful thing. So, Will, I wrote in the
name of Helen Maitland to the owners of
the Walder share in Leadenhall Street, and
represented myself as an invalid, and that
I had been ordered to take a sea-voyage,
and asked their charge for the journey to
Callao and back in the same ship, the
Walder share. They replied that the charge
would be one hundred and fifty pounds for
the double journey. I had a hundred pounds
by me, and asked Mr. Johnson to advance
me a hundred, which he did without any
questions — I believe he thought it was for
you, and I did not mind that he did, dear,"
says she, interrupting herself, but without
a smile. "I sent the money to the ship-owners,
and they wrote back to tell me that
a cabin was secured for me, and that I might
join the ship either in London or Gravesend.
I chose Gravesend, and I dare say you
can guess why."

11 Then the captain knows you by the
name of Miss Maitland ? "

"Yes."

"And does Mr. Johnson know where you
are ? "

"By this time he does," she answered;
for Phoebe was to tell horn when he asked
for me."

He will be very much frightened and
pained, I fear."

She made no answer.

And all this for me ! " I cried, realizing
the greatness of her love as I thought of
her resolution, her courageous deception,
her lonely journey from Burmarsh, her
lonely arrival at Gravesend.

You are no longer angry, Will ? "

No, darling; but I am deeply moved.
It is an incredible act. No one would
believe such a story."

No girl would doubt it who loves her
sweetheart truly," she answered in a low
voice.

"Do you remember the song you sung
under my window about the merry sailor's
life?"

She blushed and smiled. "It was bad
judgment, Will, and I am a bad actress.
There was no reason why I should have tried
to make you think I was light-hearted on
the clay before we were supposed to part."

My astonishment was past now, and other
emotions had taken its place. The sense
that she was with me filled me with gladness,
and I was wondering now that ever I
could have spoken of her landing at Deal.
Besides, when I considered how many girls
had undertaken sea-voyages alone, coming
or going to join their parents or friends or
lovers in India or Australia and other distant
places, in charge only of the captains
of the ships in which they sailed, I found
that, outside the real reason of Nelly's
voyage, there was nothing very strange in
her being alone in the vessel ; and so far as
I knew myself, I was at least assured that
she could have no better protector in this
world than the man who loved her and
waited only to marry her. I was now as
light-hearted as I had before been perplexed
and worried, and she was very quick
to notice the change in me.

"And now as to our behaviour to each
other," said I. " We had best keep our
secret for the present, though I think I
shall make a confidant of the chief mate
later on, who is a good-hearted little fellow,

as I believe, and will take a particular
interest in you when lie hears that you are
to be my wife ; though I shall tell him that
your joining as a passenger was planned
between us, as that will ' give the whole
thing a ship-shape look. As to the captain,
I shall require to see more of his
character before I open my mouth ; and
therefore, for the present, it will be safest
to keep apart as much as possible." And
I went on to explain to her that my position
was a subordinate one, and that the skipper
might take it into his head to resent any
intimacy on my part with her on board his
ship, and make my berth a hot one. She
grasped my whole meaning with the quickness
of a woman's wit, and promised to do
exactly as I bid her. I advised her for the
present to play the part of an invalid, and
was going on, when a footstep on the companion
ladder warned me to break off, and
she had just time to enter her cabin, and I
to fetch the foremost end of the cuddy,
when the captain made his appearance.

Is that you, Mr. Lee ? " he sung out.

"Yes, sir."

Where's the steward? Send him aft,
will yon, and tell horn to light the caddy
lamps."

He then stepped np to Nelly's cabin, as
she afterwards told me, and asked her if
she would join Madam Espinosa on deck;
and was extremely polite, waiting until she
had pnt on her hat, and then giving her his
arm, though there was little enough for her
to see when she got upon deck.

I passed the word forward for the steward,
and waited till he came out of the cook's
galley, and then I went on to the poop
again just as Nelly came through the companion
with Captain Flanders. It did
appear to me extraordinary that she and I
should be together in the same ship, and it
seemed a mere fancy to think that we
should not be separated, but that the whole
voyage, which I had looked forward to with
so much dread because it was going to keep
me away from my sweetheart for more thana
year, was to be taken with her, and that
I should see more of her and be more with
her than if I had stayed in Burmarsh for
the year. She immediately engaged Madam

Espinosa in conversation, whilst the
gentlemen stood round. I, of course, held
to the foremost end of the poop.

The fog had somewhat thinned, to the
extent that the tug, and perhaps a quarter
of a mile of water beyond her, were visible.
It was evident it hung low, for it was white
and luminous with the sunshine that was
pouring in the blue sky over it. There was
not a breath of air now. The pilot had sung
out to the tug to fire away again, and we
were running swiftly over the water, as I
might judge by the lines of green weed and
the great yellow blobs of jelly-fish that
went past. It was now a little before six,
and we were somewhere abreast of Heme
Bay, heading sharp for the Foreland, which
ought to be well on the starboard quarter
by eight.

At six o'clock the first dinner bell rang,
and Captain Flanders and the passengers
went below, Mr. Black handing Nelly to
the companion with a fine elaborate flourish.
Mr. Thomas likewise vanished to adorn
himself, and the pilot forward and I aft
kept the deck, an arrangement that answered

my purpose, as for the present the less I was
thrown with Nelly in the society of the
captain the better. I took a furtive squint
through the skylight at the dinner-table when
they were seated at it, and saw that Nelly
was placed between Mr. Black and Madam
Espinosa. The lamplight filled her hair
with spangles, and her eyes, when she threw
a glance up, though she could not have seen
me, flashed like the jewels on the Spaniard's
fingers. The skipper sat, with his egg-shaped
head, at the head of the table as
grave as a ghost, the eyes in his gaunt
cheeks looking like smouldering cinders ;
and little beau Thomas was at the other
end, though all that I could see of him was
his hair, that shone as though he had been
dipped into an oil-cask. Madam Espinosa's
laugh sounded gay, and Mr. Black's guffaw
was brave ; but I believed we should hear
different sounds when we began to feel the
swell.

The only vessel we sighted hereabouts
was a smack at anchor, into which the tug
was heading as neatly as you aim the end
of a thread into the eye of a needle. She

oozed out of the fog, her red mainsail set,
and her foresail hanging in a bight over her
bows, and they raised a yell on board of her
when they saw us which the tug answered
by a prolonged whistle. There was, however,
plenty of time and plenty of room, and
we gave her as wide a berth as she could
want. She made a pretty picture, with her
shadow full of colour hanging in the
burnished water, and her men, in boots upto
their thighs and cased in blue jerseys,
staring at us ; she was a west-country smack,
with her decks full of nets, and she faded
astern of us just as the reflection of your
face fades on a looking-glass on which you
breathe.

The pilot's dinner was sent forward to
him, and he ate it on the forecastle, making
the capstan a table, and coming up to his
plate and taking a mouthful, and then leaning
over the rail and staring ahead, and soon.
I went below at half-past seven, when
the cuddy table was deserted, and got something
to eat. Nelly had gone into Madam
Espinosa's cabin, and so I saw nothing of
her. As I came on deck I heard the pilot

roar out to the tug, " Keep a sharp look-out
for the Elbow buoy," which was answered
by a faint " Ay, ay."

1 shall bring up to the eastwards of the
Gull buoy, abreast of the Nor' Sands Head
Lightship ! " he shouted.

"Eight you are ! " came back from the
tug, and so all hands had their cue.

The tug was now towing at half-speed,.
for the fog had settled down very thick. A
hand was in the starboard main chains with
the lead which he hove at intervals, his
wild cry sounding strangely as it followed
the splash of the lead. Fore and aft the
decks were wet with the fog, that had now
taken the character of a very fine rain, and
rolled among the yards in volumes, like
clouds of steam. The outline of the tug
was just visible ahead, and the flapping of
her paddles resembled the run of heavy
naked feet upon a deck.

Scarcely any experience that a sailor
can pass through is more irritating and
bewildering than a fog in the English
Channel. Every faculty in him, sight,
smell, hearing, all his instincts, his memory,,

VOL. I. G

his judgment, are taxed to the utmost, and
all together. We knew we should have to
bring up, and could not tell but that the
fog would lift the moment we had our
anchor down, and then we should have to
get under weigh again. All hands were as
surly as scalded monkeys, and forwards the
air rumbled with sea-blessings. The pilot
had held on, hoping the fog would clear ;
and now that it had come down as thick as
an Antarctic snowfall, he had still to hold
on to fetch the anchorage he wanted, that
would put us somewhat out of the road of
passing steamers.

However, a few minutes after eight bells
there came a hail from the tug. The pilot
sung back an answer ; the tow-rope was let
go ; a shout was raised, " Stand clear of the
chain-cable ! " the ring of the carpenter's
hammer rose clear and shrill, and souse !
down dropped the anchor with a vast splash,
and in a few moments the ship was riding
placidly, with the tug at anchor about two
cables' lengths away.

The evening had gathered now, and this,
with the fog, made it desperately black all

round. We slung a powerful lamp on the
forestry, and a couple of hands were
stationed forward, with orders to keep their
ears straining and report any sound they
heard ; for, as it turned out, we had brought
up slap in the fairway of vessels requiring
to head an easterly course : a little to the
eastward of the Gull buoy, with the lightship
stationed at the north end of the Goodwin
Sands, bearing east by south ; and this
was the devil's own weather for a running-down
job.

The tide had swung the ship with her
head pointing down Channel. How near we
were to the Sands I could not imagine, as
the fog had settled down so thick now that
the tug had vanished, although she was
near enough for us to hear the voices of the
men aboard of her ; and, beheld from the
poop, our riding-light merely glimmered like
a glow-worm, with threads of lustre sticking
into the fog like spikes of gold : but the
moment the ship was silent, the creaming
and seething of the tide on the Sands was
as distinct as the gurgle of the water alongside.


It was to be watch and watch with me
and Mr. Thomas, and I stood the first
watch, while he went below to lay down in
his clothes ready for the cry of " All hands ! "
which would certainly come the instant the
weather cleared.

In the cuddy, as I might see by casting
my eyes on the skylight, the captain was
talking with Mr. Black, and the Spaniard
and his wife were playing at backgammon or
draughts, whilst Nelly watched them with
her elbows on the table and her cheeks in
her hands. I stood looking at her for a
long while, my heart very full, and then
joined the pilot and took a few turns up and
down the deck with him. The fog was
choking work, and he sputtered and swore
over it with the true salt's trick of grumbling,
from time to time thrusting his nose
into the binnacle, where his mahogany face
sparkled in the lamplight like a wet tarpaulin.
He went below when the grog was on
the table, and I watched him raise a screecher
of rum to his lips, nodding politely around
before he drank, and drying his mouth on
the sleeve of his coat.

So I was now alone on deck. There was
a deep stillness on the water ; the only
sound that penetrated the fog was the continuous
delicate hissing of the tide running
by the Sands ; but this, as I say, being continuous,
seemed to form a part of the silence
at all events, it appeared to heighten it.
The men were below, glad to get out of the
damp air, which was not rendered more
tolerable by its tepid temperature. The two
hands on the look-out paced the forecastle
noiselessly.

Presently I sung out : " Forward there !
Can you see anything of the tug? "

No, sir."

Keep your ears wide open, my lads."

"Ay, ay, sir."

Four bells were struck, — ten o'clock.
The captain came on deck, followed by the
pilot, and they walked down to the break of
the poop and had a few words together.

"It's thick enough to hang your hat
on," said the pilot. " I reckon a southerly
wind '11 follow r this, and I wish it 'ud
come."

We have not the ordering of the winds,

sir, arid we must be patient," returned Captain
Flanders in a deep voice. His hollow
tone sounded odd, and the pilot gave a
grunt. Perhaps he was as puzzled as I by
the philosophy of a sea captain under circumstances
which might set an angel grumbling.


On a sudden one of the men forward
sung out —

Is that a ship on the starboard beam
there, sir ? I thought I see a lumping big
shadow out there just now, but it's gone."

I ran to the rail and strained my eyes,
but it was like looking into smoke. At this
moment I heard a sound remarkably like
the creak of a block-sheaf on a rusty pin,
followed by a dull thud, as though a coil of
rope had been flung down on a deck.

"Did you hear that, sir ? " hailed one of
the look-out men.

Ay, ay ! There is evidently a vessel
somewhere near us, sir," said I, addressing
the captain.

The pilot hollowed his claws and roared
out, " Ship ahoy ! "

"We listened, and in a few moments a

sound came back to us out of the fog which
sounded uncommonly like " Well, well ! "

Have you got your anchor down?"
bawled the pilot.

To this there was no reply.

Ship ahoy ! " he shouted again.

The same dull-toned answer, resembling
Well, well ! " came back, this time a little
fainter.

"If you haven't brought up, let go your
anchor ! " roared the pilot, in a voice that
should have been audible at Margate, "or
you'll be ashore ! "

"There she is, sir!" was shouted from
our forecastle ; and for an instant only, as
the folds of the fog opened like the mouth
of a purse, I caught a glimpse of a large
vessel under top-gallant sails, and away
beyond her twinkled the triangular lanterns
of the lightship.* The fog closed, and
she and the further lights disappeared.

Why, that fellow's a madman ! " exclaimed
the pilot, spitting on the deck with
great excitement. " Some blasted farrier,
I expects, who's too mean to ship a pilot ;

This vessel burns only one light now.

and there lie is bound for the Nor' Sands
Head as cleverly as if he was booked for
half the insurance money ! "

The captain turned suddenly and walked
away, as if offended by the pilot's language ;
indeed, his movement was too suggestive
for the meaning of it to be missed. The
pilot looked round after him, laughed in his
throat with a gargling sound, and then,
asking me to " oblige " him with a pipe
of tobacco, filled a black bowl from my
pouch and went down on the quarter-deck,
where he stood blowing large clouds under
the break of the poop.

Mr. Lee ! " hailed the skipper.

I immediately went aft.

The habit of swearing is very offensive
to me," said he, in his sepulchral voice.
u I hope, sir, you are never guilty of it ? "

Why, sir, I don't think I am."

"A man who has a soul to be saved,"
he continued, in a voice that seemed to
tremble, " should talk as if he believed that
the words he is speaking are the last God
wall permit him to pronounce in this life."

I had nothing to say.

I may as well tell you, Mr. Lee, while
I am on the subject," he continued, " that
I intend that this ship shall be a pious
ship — after the primitive fashion, sir ; the
fashion of the first Christians. To you, as
one of my officers, I shall look for all the
assistance you can render me ; and my
order to you is, that you will report every
man to me whom you may hear using an
oath."

I touched my cap, and he walked away,
going to a part of the rail that stood in the
light of the cuddy lamps shining through
the skylight, where he remained for some
moments, with his face upturned as though
he were praying.

I thought his manner extraordinary,
though I own it impressed me. I mean
to say that, whilst I heartily concurred in
his views of profane swearing, of which I
always had as great a horror as any man,
and the religious discipline of the ship
(though here a limit would be wanted, for
two much religion repels sailors as it does
shore-folks — as the south pole of a magnet
repels the needle), the tone of voice in

which he addressed me, and his talk of the
first Christians, and then his going away
and fixing his eyes on the sky, struck meas
very singular, and something to hear
thinking oyer and watching. He came
away from the rail, and taking a look at the
binnacle, walked up and down the poop
with his arms folded.

Meanwhile, the pilot sucked his pipe on
the quarter-deck, and the tobacco smoke
came up through the fog in straight lines
out of his mouth, so great was the calm.

The silence all around remained unbroken,
and nothing more was to be seen
of the ship that had drifted past us.

It was now five bells. We carried our
bell on the forecastle, and whilst one of the
men was striking it, the fog thinned overhead
and astern, and glistened with the
radiance of the moon. Just at that moment
I fancied I beheld a flash of lightning down
in the south-east, a little abaft the port
beam ; but immediately afterwards came
the report of a gun, and, just as a hand
might divide a pair of curtains, the fog in
that direction departed and rolled away on

either side, leaving a broad space of clearwater
with the moonlight lying bright upon
it, beyond the frosty line of which was a
big ship with her sails hanging in pale
spaces.

She's got what she wants ! " shouted
the pilot, springing on to the poop. " She's
ashore, as sure as my head's on my neck ! "

A spout of flame whizzed from her side,
and down came the thunder of another
gun.

See ! the lightship is taking up the
chorus ! " I cried, as a broad glare of light
streamed in the fog to the eastwards of the
ship, and was immediately followed by a
loud concussion.

The fog was now rapidly thinning all
down in the south, but wreaths of it had
floated in over the space that had opened,
though in the watery moonshine — for her
disc was now visible, hanging wan and
sickly over the vapour that was drifting
landwards and thinning as it went — the
ship could just be made out.

They now sent up a rocket and burned
a blue light, and another gun flashed onboard

the lightship. The haze all around
the vessel was illuminated by the blue fire
in a semi-circle, the outer edge of which
was as defined as the blue in a rainbow ;
and the water, catching the ghastly lustre,
doubled it and filled the eye with a complete
circle of phosphorescent radiance, in
the midst of which was the ship, with her
sails looking as green as leaves, whilst her
spars and rigging, and the slender, withe-like
shoot of her bowsprit, and her tall
black hull, and the white quarter-boats at
her davits, twinkled as if gemmed with
emeralds, until the light suddenly went out,
amid the slinging crash of another gun,
and left the ship a pale phantom in the
moonlight, that was now fast mastering the
remains of the fog.

"Mr. Lee!" sung out Captain Flanders
in his deep voice from the after end of the
poop. "Call some of the hands aft; man
one of the boats and row over to that ship,
and tell them to keep up their courage, and
that the life boat and levellers will be
alongside them before long."

To hear was to obey.

"Forward there! tell the boatswain to
send some hands along to man the starboard
quarter-boat."

"I say, captain!" shouted the pilot. " The
fog's cleared, and we ought to get underway.
Mr. Lee can do no good, sir. They've
got a tug at Ramsgate Harbour, and she'll
have the life-boat alongside in three-quarters
of an hour ! ' '

Let Mr. Lee execute my orders !" roared
the captain, the thunder of his voice — it was
like a neigh ; I never heard the like of it —
mingling with the boom of another gun from
the lightship. " The windlass shall not be
touched aboard this ship until our fellow-creatures
yonder have been reassured ! "

I was quite disposed to agree with the pilot
that the errand was an idle one, as all the
help the ship required would speedily reach
her from the shore ; but the captain's excitement
had already set him handling the falls
of the quarter-boat, and the boatswain's
pipe having sounded, a dozen men came
tumbling aft. Four men jumped into the
boat. I tumbled into the stern-sheets and
we were lowered into the water. The boat-falls

were unhooked. I shouted, " Give
way, my lads ! " and we headed for the ship,
that was now evidently in a terrible fright,
for she was firing her guns as fast as she-could
load them, and sending up rockets as
though she wanted to give us an exhibition
of fireworks. The fog still hung in low, long-white
lines here and there upon the water,
but the body of it had fetched away to the
northwards, and the moonlight sparkled
brightly on the sea. The men squared their
arms and their oars cheered furiously : they
were under the impression that life was to
be saved, and as they were fresh from their
bunks, they had only got a smattering into
their skulls of the real state of things.

As we approached the ship, I noticed that
she had all her boats fast; but from the
confusion that evidently reigned on board,
her yards boxed about any *way, her sails
hanging loose, her running gear all slack,
I easily guessed that she was a foreigner.
They let drive another gun when we were
about a couple of hundred yards distant, and
fired another blue light, the glare of which,
helping the moonlight, enabled me to see

that her high poop was crowded with human
beings, many of them women. She had
gone ashore bow on, and hung firmly : all
to starboard of her and ahead were the dry
sands glistening like silver in the moonlight,
stretching away into the gloom with a thin
edging of froth. Whether she had seen us
before I could not say : but they raised a
wild screech when we were within hail, and
in the blue light the gesticulating mob
looked like the inhabitants of an infernal
world.

'Vast rowing!" I sung out; and then
standing up, I bawled, " Can any one speak
English aboard of you ? "

My question fell unheeded, as it was
reasonable it should, seeing that all hands
were jabbering and yelling to me ; the women
tossing their hands and pointing to the sands,
and the men dancing upon the poop railing
and capering at the backstairs like daft folks.
What their lingo was I could not then tell,
and I don't think one of their own countrymen
would have understood them.

I hailed them again in English, and the
hubbub ceasing, I repeated my question.

"Me speaker leeches English ! " shrieked
a wavering voice.

What are you ? " I shouted. " French ? "

Rash, rash, French."

Unhappily, my knowledge of French was
very small ; however, I thought I would talk
to them after the fashion of most Britons,
who, when they find a foreigner ignorant of
the English language, shout to hin at the
top of their voices in a dialect which is
neither English nor anything else.

Me English I " I roared. " You ashore
hut no danger — you save that ! — no
danger — you wait — by-and-by boatee come
you all right, ah ? You make plenty of
flare ! plenty boatee come quick and take
ashore ! "

"Confound it!" I exclaimed, sinking
back, for the only good I had done was to
set them all roaring at me again ; and there
they were, asking questions with one voice,
in the midst of which they fired another
gun.

I don't think you can do anything more,
sir," said the fellow who pulled stroke in my
boat, grinning in the moonlight. " They'll

screech themselves quiet presently, and then
maybe they'll hear the Ramsgate tug coming
to 'em."

Ay," said a second man, " and there'll bea
whole fleet of levellers around 'em before
another hour's gone. I've been levelling
myself off this coast, and if I was on board
that ere ship I lay I'd see the lights of a
shoal of luggers under way now."

I was very sorry not to be able to explain
this to them, though I question if a knowledge
of their language would have been of
much use to me, for nothing short of a voice
as loud as one of their guns could have made
itself heard above the hullabaloo aboard. It
was a painful sight to see the women in the
moonlight tossing their hands, falling down
upon their knees, crossing themselves and
dragging at their hair, for all the world as
though the ship was about to founder ; whilst
the men, instead of keeping silence and explaining
to the women that, so far as their
lives were concerned, they were as safe as if
they had been in harbour, went dancing
about the deck, pointing here and there,
shouting to one another, yelling questions

VOL. I. h

to me, toppling down upon their noses, and
executing a mass of absurd antics. I took
her to be an emigrant ship, but could not
hind any name upon her stern, nor could 1
imagine where she was bound to, to be humbugging
about these sands. Nobody at all
who looked like a captain or a mate was
distinguishable among the crowd. The
wonder to me was that, their fright being
so great, they had not lowered their boats ;
but there they all hung secure at the davits,
very good, white, handsome boats, too, and
plenty of them.

My attention was now directed by one
of the men to the Walder share, who was
trying to signal us by means of a lantern
made fast to the peak signal halliards and
run up and down. Having not the least
doubt that help was fast coming to the
distracted Frenchmen, from some of the
places abreast of us, I gave the order to
the men to out oars, and we headed for
our own ship. I expected that our departure
would be followed by a broadside of yells
and screams ; instead of which, and almost
before we had got way upon the boat, the

hubbub dropped into a sort of hum, the
character of which is indescribable, though
the effect it produced upon the ear was
startling ; and then, while a hundred throats
split the night with cheers, up went a
couple of rockets, and once more a blue
light shed its ghastly radiance upon the
water.

They have caught sight of the tug,
Ear," said one of the men, quietly; and
this was undoubtedly the case, for by the
time we had got aboard of the Walcler share
and hoisted the boat, the steamer's lights
were visible, with the sparks flying along
the smoke she left behind her, and she
passed close astern of us with a big white
life-boat in tow, whilst our windlass was
clanking and our own tug was backing upto
us to get hold of our tow-rope.

Chapter IV.

TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT.

It was now a bright moonlight night, with
a light wind from the southward, not a
vestige of the fog visible, the North Foreland
light burning like a yellow star upon
a sky full of white stars, and the coast
sloping pale and distant down into the
west. By three bells — half-past one — our
tow-rope was singing under the pull of the
tug, and the big French ship, with the
steamer lying near her, and two or three
luggers hovering around, was dropping
rapidly astern.

I had found Mr. Thomas on deck when
I came aboard, and he expressed his amazement
that the captain should have thought
fit to send me on such a fool's errand.
However, w r e had had no time for talk, and

now that we were under way again, he,
having had three hours' rest, advised me
to go and lie down, as the tug would
leave us after we were clear of the Downs,
and all hands would be called to make
sail.

I scrambled into my bunk without even
pulling off my boots, and scarcely was my
head down when I was fast asleep.

I was called by Mr. Thomas, and instantly
hopped out and went on deck. The breeze
had freshened, the tug had left us, and the
hands were busy making sail. Down in
the east the dawn was faintly streaking the
sky, but the moon was still bright in the
west, and over the dark line of land the stars
were shining clearly. We were now to
shift for ourselves, and our voyage had at
last fairly begun. Already the fore and
main topsails were sheeted home, and the
yards mast-headed with a chorus that went
echoing far into the darkness. Making sail
is a noisy business on board a merchantman.
The hands stamped along freely with
sheets and halliards in their hands, every,
gang of workers had their own song and

chorus, and every one on deck and, for
the matter of that, every one aloft too,
seemed bent on rivalling by his own hoarse
shouts the shouts of every other man.

"Now then, my lads, aft here and sheet
home this mizz en top sail ! "

Get that forelock down smartly ! "

11 Are you all ready there with that inner
jib ? "

"Ay, ay, sir."

Then hoist away ! "

Main-top there ! jump aloft and loose
the top-gallants ! "

Hoist away the main topmast staysail
! "

"A hand aloft and loose the fere top-gallants
! "

Sheet home, my lads, sheet home !
overhaul your clew lines there ! well the lee
sheet ! another pull to windward 1 belay !
tally on to the halliards— up with her
smartly ! Hurrah! "

And not by degrees only, but with smartness
that would not have discredited a man-of-war,
sail was piled upon the W alder share;
and whilst the dawn was slowly changing

into ash-colour the surface of the eastern
sky, against which the rim of the sea stood
black as ink, and whilst the moon wassailing
down the western heaven, whose
bright stars gemmed the brows of the tall
English cliffs, and the riding-lights of the
wind-bound ships in the Downs were twinkling
like fire-flies upon the bosom of the
dark waters, the Walder share, leaning under
her pale spaces of canvas which the wind
had moulded into shapes of beauty, with
every sail set that would draw, shredded
the water with her keen lip and glided like
a cloud down the calm English Channel.

There were many little jobs to be done
before the men were divided into watches,
and before I went below the sun had risen.
I stayed a moment or two to watch that
sight, and take my first glance at the noble
ship under canvas by daylight. First the
sky was like frosted silver, but then it grew
rosy, and whilst the sea lay blushing, a
brilliant fragment of silver stood ,upon the
horizon for an instant ; it grew quickly,
turning golden as it enlarged, until with a
bound the glorious orb soared into a sky

of pearl and rose ; the giant white cliffs of
Dover, with the sullen and beetling South
Foreland, flashed back the light quickly, and
the sea became a luminous green ; the
town of Deal lay in a glare of sunshine,
the windows of the houses sparkling among
the haze that overhung the place, beyond
which the country extended as pink as a
morning cloud, while close under the land
a dozen smacks were creeping with their
sails as red as blood, and all ahead the green
sea ran in sparkles, dashed here and therewith
foam, and the coast of France hung
like a shadow upon the horizon.

But my eyes were heavy ; the chief mate
was wondering to see me linger when I
was at liberty to go below ; so down I went,
and down I lay, and I never stirred until
I was called to go on deck at eight o'clock.

The breeze freshened as the sun mounted
the sky, and it was now blowing fresh and
steady from the south and west, forward
enough to put us on a bowline, and the
WaldersJiare was smoking through the
water like a steamer. However, as I had
suspected, the ship was too deep, and consequently

too stiff. With her heavy spars
and vast spread of canvas, she should have
buried her lee chain plates under such a
breeze ; as it was, the slope of her deck
was scarcely worth speaking of, and but
very little of her copper was exposed to
windward, though what could be seen of it
flashed brightly along the tumbling green
waters and shone like a new brass kettle.
Still, her trim did not fret the glorious old
hooker. She was stretching a wake astern
that ran away into the horizon, and all to
leeward the water under the foot of the
mainsail, the sheet of which was well aft,
swept past in a hum and dazzle of froth,
and we could guess our speed by watching
the nearer shore slipping by the land beyond
it, and the number of vessels we took up and
quietly set astern of us.

Nelly came on deck soon after I had
relieved Mr. Thomas, and seeing her head
at the companion, I had a good excuse to
join her, under the pretence of finding
her a chair or leading her to a sheltered
part of the poop. There was a hand at the
wheel, and nobody else aft, but the captain

had only just gone below, and might be up
again in a minute.

I w T as hoping that you would be on
deck," she whispered eagerly, as she gave
me her hand. " What a glorious morning !
How lovely the land looks ! How Phoebe
would enjoy this! "

She looked up at the towering canvas
with flashing eyes, and at the water seething
past, and her breath came and went
quickly, for the whole spirit of the windy,
green, and foamy scene, with the steady
blue sky overhead, and the leaning tower
of canvas, and the sparkling shore, came
upon her full and strong in an instant.

"You were born to be a sailor's wife,"
said I, delighted by the kindling happiness
in her face ; " but this is a noble ship, and
just such a home on the rolling deep as I
could wish for you."

"How could you have been angry with
me, Will, for joining you ? " she exclaimed.

Never reproach me with that again,
Nelly. I was too surprised to understand
my own mind ; and besides, you are so
precious to me that I was frightened to

think of your being exposed to the risks
of a sea voyage."

"What is good for you is good for me.
I am quite happy. I would not change
places with the queen. What have I left ?
Two kind Mends, indeed : but, then, I have
left them that I may be with you, Will ;
and you cannot tell me, although I am not
yet your wife, that where you are I should
not be."

Her dear face glowed as she spoke thus,
but she kept her eyes fixed on me bravely
and trustfully; indeed, we knew each other's
hearts, and thoughts were in us which we
could tell each other without the help of
words.

She asked me the cause of the guns
being fired last night ; and whilst I was
giving her the story of the French ship,
and the part I played in the little drama,
the captain's long head emerged through
the companion.

"I have been thinking," I whispered to
her, " you had better tell him I am an old
friend of your guardian. That will save
us all bother for the future when he sees

ns talking together, which will be pretty
often."

Saying which, I placed a chair for her,
raised my hat, and left her as Captain
Flanders came to her side. Some excuse
was wanted to account for my conversing
with her, who was simply a young lady
passenger in the captain's eyes, whilst I was
officer of the watch, and had no business
to open my lips except in the way of my
duty. Indeed, I have sailed with captains
who have strongly objected to their officers
holding any sort of converse with passengers.
What Captain Flanders' views were
on this subject I had not yet had any
chance of finding out, but as it was not to
be supposed that I could be thrown with
Nelly day after day and not speak to her,
I imagined, if she told the captain I was
a friend, he might relax any discipline he
might have in this matter, merely to please
her.

I may as well say here that her explanation
had the effect I desired, and that
Captain Flanders never took any notice of
my talking to her ; though I was careful

never to engage her in his presence during
my watch on deck, or, at any rate, to prolong
my conversation for any such length
of time as would give him an excuse to
order me away to my duty.

I was a little surprised to find that, although
in a sense we might fairly consider
ourselves at sea, he still stuck to his quaint
land-togs. In his high hat, big satin stock,
and tall collars which shored up his long,
cadaverous, hollow face, he carried a most
scriptural air, and was certainly the very last
man aboard that would have been taken for
captain.

Soon after he had joined Nelly, I discovered
that we had one more hand aboard
than was included in the muster-roll ; for a
fat spaniel dog came floundering on to the
poop, and walloped along the deck, making
as he went mischievous snaps at the
heads of the poultry in the hencoops, and
setting them all cackling. He belonged to
the skipper, who called to him in his deep,
tragic voice to come and "lie down, sir! "
which the brute declined to do before he
had made various ineffectual efforts to climb

into Nelly's lap. The dear girl endured
these onslaughts with, a sweet smile, patting
the dog after every wobbling jump,
and glancing at me as much as to say, " I
mean to make friends with Captain Flanders
for your sake, Will."

The pilot, who was known by the name
of Mr. Bolt, now came on to the poop off
the quarter-deck, and after taking a long
squint at the skipper and casting a glance
aloft and to windward with a very sour face,
complained in a husky voice that the captain
had forced " a track " against swearing
upon him.

"A what?" I shouted.

Why, a track — a book — a little printed
book," he growled, with his face glowing
like copper. " I've been to sea, man and
boy, eight an' forty year," he continued,
and in all my life I've never been insulted
like this before."

I said I did not think the captain meant
to insult him ; but nothing that I could say
would do. He had his own opinion of the
matter, and declared that no sea-captain
had a right to harmonize him either by

books or anything else, " When I've cast
Lis ship away it'll be time enough for him
to begin to harmonize." He considered the
tract an insult, and gave me to know that
he felfc it deeply, and never could have believed
that any man calling himself a sailor
would have dared to put such an affront
upon him. He afterwards eased his mind
by jamming himself against the weather
backstairs, and scowling at the skipper,
who, however, took no notice of him.

I thought this action very odd on the part
of the captain, however well-intentioned.
The result proved it wanting in tact, and a
few errors in judgment of this description
might soon lead to a strong prejudice against
him fore and aft. Ashore the giving of
tracts would not challenge a thought : for
my part I always take them, and read them
too, and have got ideas from them which I
am none the worse for having ; but aboard
of a ship a tract-giving skipper would bethought,
in Jack's lingo, "a rum shake;"
and it is natural that the very monotony
of the sea-life, coupled with the sort of passive
antagonism that grows up among people

who are thrown constantly together, and
that makes every one a keen critic of his
fellow, should furnish particular weight to
any incident in the least degree unusual or
uncommon.

The captain addressed himself with great
earnestness to Nelly, and she listened to him
with her eyes fixed on the deck. They were
presently joined by Madam Espinosa, and
shortly afterwards her husband emerged,
followed by Mr. Black. I was a good deal
amused by the rapt postures into which the
Spaniard flung himself as he looked around
him, starting tragically as he ran his eyes
aloft, then squeezing his hands together at
his knees as he cocked his nose at the shore,
and waving his flashing hands around him,
as he talked to his wife with wonderful volubility
in his native tongue. His wife's
yellow hair lay all down her back, and her
figure seemed bursting out of her tight
clothes. Mr. Black looked gravely about
him, clearly resolved not to be cheated into
any appreciation of the bright and windy
scene until he was sure it was worth admiring.


There was just the touch of a light swell
on here, but right abeam, aud scarcely
noticeable ; but I reckoned, if this breeze
lasted, the Spanish merchant, if I might
judge by the colour of his face, would be on
his back before we had made the Isle of
Wight, for as the Channel broadened we
should be finding more sea.

He came capering over to where I stood
presently, first looking at the pilot, then at
me, as meditating whom he should address,
and no doubt finding the expression on my
face the pleasant one ; for old Bolt stood
up against the main backstairs as ugly and
sour as a defaced figure-head.

"Ale you officer?" says he, nodding
quickly, and grinning behind his great nose
with every desire to be polite.

Yes, I am, sir," I answered.

"Lieutenant, eh?"

"Why, a kind of lieutenant," said I,
holding there was no use in calling myself
mate, as he wouldn't understand what I
meant.

u You speak Spanish ? "

Not a word, sir."

VOL. I. I

"Why not you learn? it is reach language
— beautifully more san English. W T hy
not you learn?"

I'll try and get at it some of these days,"
I replied.

What you think of dis ship, eh ? Is she
fine ship ? "

Why, yes, a very fine ship."

"No danger, eh, you think? Quite safe
ship, eh ? and fast ? De satire beautiful
to look at, but, raro de legion de San Antonio
! ogle to feel here ! " says he, taking
his throat in his jewelled hands.

I thought that the most sensible thing he
had said yet.

"What sail you call dat ? " he asked,
pointing to the main-royal.

I told him.

"And dat?"

I gave him the name of that too.

Marie ! " he shouted, " comb here."

His wife waddled over to us, and laid hold
of her husband's arm to steady herself. I
caught Nelly looking our way, as though
she would rather have joined us than stay
with the captain, who seemed to be lecturing
her.

M. Espinosa explained. I was " lieutenant,"
he said, and I considered the ship a
fine ship, and that there was no chance of hei
drowning ; likewise, I exactly knew all the
sails, ropes, and spars, and as Marie had been
anxious to learn all about the ship, he was
sure the " lieutenant " would tell her everything
she wished to know. He took about
five minutes to say all this, and, as you may
guess, expressed himself in very different
words from those I have conveyed his meaning
by; and so having introduced his wife,
he pulled off his hat and pranced over to
Mr. Black.

As Madam Espinosa stood to windward
of me her yellow hah blew my way, and with
half an eye I saw that she was pleased I
looked at it. However, in spite of her
yellow hah, I was not particularly anxious
for her society ; for if she was good-natured,
she was also very gushing and insipid, as I
speedily discovered from her conversation.
She plied me very handsomely with questions
about the sails and other parts of the
ship, and then told me she was an intense
lover of the sea, and that she thought all

sailors real darlings. (Murder ! thought I,
and looked at poor old Bolt, standing as stiff
as a wooden Scotchman at a snuff seller's
shop door.) This was her first long voyage,
and she was most anxious to see a gale of
wind, although she was naughty to say so,
as her husband was a fearful coward and
dreaded tempestuous weather at sea. However,
Byron's poetry and various novels she
had read had filled her with curiosity to seethe
ocean lashed and the waves boiling, and
she asked me with simpering earnestness if
I thought there was any chance of our
meeting with a real gale of wind before we
arrived at Callao ? I believed she was
joking at first, but seeing that she really
meant what she said, I answered that it was
very probable we should meet with a real
gale of wind between this and that port.

My poor husband," said she, " is sure to
be dreadfully alarmed ; but I shall enjoy it.
I wish he was not so afraid of the water.
I wanted him to hire a yacht during our
stay in England; but no, he would not hear
of it."

I expressed my wonder that he should

not have chosen a steamer, and a shorter
cut to the west coast of South America than
the Horn.

Oh," said she, "it was my fault. He
would have crossed to the United States
and gone by land as far as he could ; but'
she added, tossing her head, " I told him
that I should choose a sailing-ship and a
long sea-voyage, and if that didn't please
him, he might go in a balloon for all I
cared, but I would go by water."

I asked her if she had ever been round
the Horn, for I didn't know which end of
the world she hailed from.

Xo, she had never been round the Horn ;
she had never yet been to Lima.

It is not like yachting," said I.

Do yachts never go round the Horn ? "
she wanted to know.

"If I may judge from the way in
which some yachting men brag, I should
say that yachts have been round the Horn,
and further than the North Pole, to boot."

I am very fond of yachting," said she.

"Why, yes, it is a pleasant amusement,
and quite fit for ladies. Gilt buttons are

always becoming, and smooth water makes
sailing very easy ; and with a high barometer
and a harbour always under your
lee, tailoring can't fail to be enjoyable,
especially when mixed up with plenty of
champagne and the newest yachting modes.
But I'm afraid, if the Solent were like the
Horn, the yacht-builders would soon be
starving."

The breakfast bell ringing at this moment
obliged her to release me, and she waddled
over to her husband.

We were now off Be achy Head, heading
about W. S.W. with the Sussex coast
melting into a blue film as it ran away
into Newhaven and Brighton. We had all
the offing we wanted, 'with the wind holding
in the quarter from which it had first come
on to blow, and we could now let go the
bowlines and ease off the lee braces. All
to windward the water, as it ran in short
seas and quick tumbles of foam, was ablaze
under the brilliant sunshine ; the breeze was
very fresh, and a light white-painted ship
on the port bow, that we were overhauling
as though she had been a buoy, found a

main top-gallant sail as much as she could
carry ; and when we passed her, her decks
sloped towards us like the side of a hill.
But the W alder share was now under all
the canvas that would draw, and standing
alongside the pilot to windward, and looking
aloft at the vast spaces of white cloths
stretching in slender points to the yard-arms,
with their hollows full of delicate
shadows, the taut weather-leeches of the
royal and top-gallant sails with a little
shiver in them, like the sharp ripple of a
flag steadily blowing, and the staysails
ballooning in superb curves, and the shrouds
and backstairs standing like harp-strings,
through which the wind was singing a
merry chorus, whilst the big black tops
threw shadows over the heads of the bright
masts in which the light was glancing, and
every now and again a little sea would
strike the weather-bow and flash in smoke
over the forecastle, I thought our ship made
a noble show, and was an object to fire the
pride in every sailor's heart aboard of her.

By eight o'clock that evening we had
backed the main-topsail, and lay waiting

for a boat to take the pilot ashore. The
Isle of Wight stood broad on the starboard
beam, and I went to Nelly and whispered in
her ear to take a good look at those cliffs, as
they were probably the last piece of English
land she was likely to see for many a long-day.
The sun was within a quarter of an
hour of his setting, and the sky all around
him, and the high summer clouds which
swept athwart him, were as red as blood,
whilst the water was a dark green surface
that to leeward went pouring away to the
looming and terrace-like cliffs, and the
towering southern downs of the island that
stood in a pink haze, though even at that
distance the greens and greys and whites
were visible. Fore and aft every eye aboard
the ship was fixed on the land, and the
feeling that the night would soon shut out
every sign of the English coast, and that
some among us might never behold the old
home again, was strong in the minds of the
Englishmen in the ship's company. The
only sail in sight was the small powerful
cutter that was heading for us close hauled,
and that came driving down in a smother of

foam. Even after the sun had sunk, the
whole of the heavens down to the uttermost
east held for a while the delicate crimson of
its farewell light, and the stars were glittering
wittily even before this crimson melted
out of the east, and died overhead, and
faded into a long, narrow, but extremely
vivid flush over the spot where the sun had
sunk. As this flush vanished the coast hue
died out, and nothing was visible to the eye
but the long stretch of dark waters. The
moon was in the south, throwing a pale-greenish
light upon the sea, but the breeze
had freshened after the sunset, and before
the cutter came alongside we had hands
aloft furling the royal and the mizzen topgallant
sail.

The pilot, with a bundle of letters in his
pocket, among which was one from Nelly to
Phoebe Johnson, after shaking hands with
Mr. Thomas and me, and touching his hat
with very surly civility to the skipper,
dropped into the cutter cleverly.

"Man the starboard main-braces," shouted
Mr. Thomas, and the great yards swung
round. " Haul taut to windward ! Now get

your main-sheet aft." The main-tack was
boarded, a watch-tackle clapped on to it,
and bowed down to the tune of " Pull, my
bully boys." The helm was put down and
the ship brought to her course, and whilst
the songs of the sailors were still echoing
along her decks, and the wind among the
sails was aw r aking a little thunder overhead,
the Walcler share, leaning her nose down as a
dog sides his head to make a better lever of
his jaws, shattered the first sea she struck
into an acre of foam, and started with a
rush for the open waters of the English
Channel and the great Atlantic deep beyond.

Chapter Y.

AT SEA.

It blew fresh, all that night, accompanied
during the first watch with two or three
squalls of rain ; also veering westerly, which
obliged us to brace sharp up in order to
lay our course. But even with the leech
of the top-gallant sail lifting, and a single
reef in the two topsails, the ship smoked
through the water at a speed beyond anything
I could have imagined ; and by noon
on the following day we were clear of the
Channel, breasting the long Atlantic rollers,,
with the wind dead at south, and our yards
hard against the lee rigging.

At breakfast that morning no passengers
were to be seen. We did not carry a
stewardess — indeed, very few passenger
sailing-ships in the South American and

Australian trade did in those days — and I
had to get what news I could of Nelly from
the steward, who told rne that he had
accosted her through her cabin door, and
that her answer was — she did not want any
breakfast, and preferred to remain where
she was. So I made rip my mind to lose
sight of her for two or three days, during
which time it should be my business to see
that she was well looked after ; but within
half an hour of my coming on deck at
noon, I heard voices on the quarter-deck,
and looking over the poop-rail, to my very
great astonishment and pleasure, I saw
Nelly holding the hand of Mr. Thomas, who
was in the act of conducting her up the
poop-ladder. She was pale enough, poor
girl ; but she gave me a smile that, I think,
rather astonished Mr. Thomas, and her
fine eyes flashed as she glanced at the sea
and watched the brilliant dance of the ship
over the foaming water.

I was afraid you were going to have
a spell of sea-sickness," said I. "I am
heartily glad to see you on deck."

I was a little ill this morning," she

answered; "but I am all right now, — and
this is all I want to make me quite well ! "
she exclaimed, her nostrils dilating as she-breathed
in the sweet and sweeping wind,
and grasping a backstay with her hand.

Mr. Thomas slued his little head on one
side and squinted up at me, as much as to
say, " How the deuce have you made her
so familiar with you in this time ? " after
which he eyed her with an admiration that
I dare say would have gotten him a cuff
over the ear from his month-old wife, had
she been there to see it. He was not so
smartly dressed as usual, guessing, I suppose,
that the ladies would not turn out*
He seemed to think of this now, for presently,
looking at his boots and waistcoat,
he ran on to the quarter-deck, and we saw
no more of him.

I fixed a chair for Nelly to leeward of the
mizzen-mast, and fetched a big overcoat
in which I wrapped her legs ; and now she
said she was quite happy, and not in the
least sick, — and, indeed, I could see, by the
dawning roses in her cheeks, what the wind
was doing for her. The Spinosa' cabin

was next hers, and from her account T
guessed the Spaniard was undergoing a
martyrdom.

His groans are dreadful," she told me ;
"and I suppose his poor wife is too ill to
help him, for I heard him shrieking out her
name, but he got no anew T er. Afterwards
he rolled out of his berth — for there was
a noise in his cabin that gave me that
idea. I imagine he is more alarmed than
sick."

"Both, no doubt," said I, laughing.

I flatter myself that my being with her
increased her happiness, but I never should
have believed she would prove so good a
sailor, nor so greatly enjoy the scene around
her. There was not, indeed, much sea on,
though the wind was what sailors call a
top-gallant breeze ; but there was a long
Atlantic swell right astern which made the
deep ship roll rather heavily, and being
close-hauled, each time she rolled to windward,
she doubled the power of the wind,
so that it tore through the rigging in
screams like railway whistles, and boomed
out from the bellies of the sails under the

feet of then with a sound of thunder. The
sky was a pale green over the horizon, and
a steel blue overhead, and across it huge,
wool-like clouds were stretching. The forecastle,
wet with the spray that laced it,
flashed in the sun, and now and again a
head of froth would blow over the bulwarks
into the waist, and scatter along the decks
in big soapy blobs of yellow bubble. The
watch on deck were at work on jobs in
various parts of the ship, and their costumes
of coloured shirts, canvas or serge breeches,
caps of every description, and every man
with a belt round his waist and a sheath-knife
at his hip, increased the picturesque
effect of the whole scene. To leeward was
a large barque bound for the English Channel,
with stun' sails aloft and alow, frothing
the swell that sent her pitching and bowing
onwards, with the Dutch flag blowing over
her stern, and her copper glancing against
the boiling water every time she tossed her
heels.

"Who would not be a sailor, Will!"
exclaimed my sweetheart, casting her beautiful
grey eyes aloft and watching the

royal-masthead waving with stately motion
to and fro under the flying clouds.

"Perhaps, after all, it's a gayer life than
I sometimes think it, Nell. Yet no voyage
that ever I have taken or am likely to goon
will equal this one, and I am not going
to tell you why."

"It will be one long enjoyment for me,"
said she. " Madam Espinosa is not a very
brilliant lady, but she is good-natured, and
I shall get on very well with her. I only
wish Phoebe were with us. I like your
chief mate, too — Mr. Thomas ; he is a nice
little man, extremely polite, but how very,
very tiny ! But I do not quite understand
Captain Flanders. Is he quite right, Will,
do you think?"

"Hush, my dear girl!" I exclaimed,
glancing aft and then down the skylight,
to make sure no one was within hearing.
That is a dangerous question to ask.
Considering that he is captain of this ship
and lord paramount, I should be sorry to
believe he is not quite right."

She looked somewhat abashed and
frightened.

14 1 dare say you judge him," I continued,
44 as the pilot who left us last night, I know,
did, by his religious talk."

44 No," she interrupted, 44 not by that,
although he seems to care for no other
topic. His manner is curious, and his conversation
is very often curious too ; and his
manner and his conversation put together
are quite enough to make one think that he
is not altogether rational."

"What was he talking about to you
yesterday so earnestly ? "

"About spirits."

44 About what? " I exclaimed.

44 About spectres and apparitions, Will.
He believes in spirits, and spoke of one
that visited him last week, and that
told him what sort of a voyage we are to
have."

44 Good Lord ! " I ejaculated, as the image
of his egg-shaped head rose in my mind.

44 He was so earnest at times as really
to be alarming," she said, lowering her
voice (with a little smile twisting about the
corners of her mouth as if she should say,
44 You see I am right, my dear, and although

vol. r. k

you frightened me by the way you said
hush ! you're beginning to find out that I'm
the wiser of the two") " He said that he
was a Christian, but not a modern one.
He was a primitive Christian ; he disbelieved
in clergymen, churches, archbishops, and
everything like that, and assured me that
several spirits had told him no prayers
were listened to that were not offered in
the way the early Christians prayed, namely,
in caves and woods and in the open air.
Now, Will, would not you think anybody
cracked to talk so ? "

u Cracked ! I should think so, indeed ! "
said I, after a low whistle. "But for all
that he may be a very good sailor and
understand his business, and if so, his
believing in supernatural spirits need not
trouble us ; for it is better for a sailor to
believe in ghosts than in Jamaica rum, the
spirit that has too many believers already
among us. How do you feel now ? "

"As if I should like to walk," she
answered, with her face finely tinted by
the strong wind, and bronze threads of hair
blowing about her cheeks. However, it

would not do for me to be seen walking

with her, and I was quite sure that,
audacious as her triumph over the demon
nausea had made her, she would never he
able to keep her feet ; so I advised her to
sit still and wait for lunch, which would
be on the table at one ; " and mind, Nelly,"
said I, " to ask the steward for a slice of
real salt junk and a sea-biscuit, and a glass
of bitter beer, as I don't suppose you would
like to drink cold grog, though that is
the correct brew for shipboard ; and, depend
upon it, old Neptune will appreciate the
compliment you pay him in calling for his
time-honoured victuals, and will immediately
hail you as a first-class seaman, proof
against the most monstrous seas and the
wildest weather."

The crew went to dinner at half-past
twelve. The cook was a cockney, a fat
fellow in tight dungaree trousers, and
arms and face like veal after it is " blown"
by the butchers to hang in their shops.
Like most sea-cooks, and indeed like most
men who get their livers swollen by standing
before ovens all their lives, he was a

very irritable man, and on this, the very
first day of our being at sea, his temper
led to something very nearly resembling a
riot.

One of the boys was in the act of quitting
the galley, holding in his arms a mess kid
full of smoking meat, when, as I assumed,
he gave the cook some saucy words ; anyhow,
I saw the cook's leg fly out of the
galley and deal the boy a kick at the
moment when the ship rolled heavily to
leeward. The boy flew head over heels
into the lee scuppers, and the meat bolted
out of the kid as he flopped down ; but the
same roll of the ship likewise propelled the
cook (who had got more way on him than
he could manage, through the jerk he had
given his leg) clean through the galley
door; he tumbled over the boy, and there
they lay galloping and floundering upon
the deck, in the midst of the steam from the
pieces of meat, which jumped all about them
as they flung their arms and legs about.
The boy roared murder ! and I sprang off
the poop and ran forward; at the same
moment the hands came tumbling out of

the forecastle, where they were waiting
hungrily for their dinner, to see what the
matter was.

The cook, gathering himself up out of
the scuppers, exclaimed that the boy had
sarsed him." This the boy, who stood
blubbering, being indeed badly scalded about
the right ear, admitted, but said that the
cook had brought it on himself by calling
him a bad name. The men in the port
watch, however, to whom the kid of beef
belonged, casting their eyes upon the pieces
of meat which washed about in the scuppers,
or lay jammed among the rusty links of
the chain-cable, began to understand that
they stood to get no beef for dinner that
day, and called upon me to know what was
to be done. I said I would speak to the
captain, who would no doubt order a fresh
supply of meat to be served out; but the
cooking of it would keep them waiting two
hours, so that the best thing they could
do was to get the starboard watch to share
their meat with them, and they must share
their ' ' duff ' ' by way of return : enough for
all hands might be made out in that way,

and the fresh rations would be ready for
them by supper time.

This proposal led to an argument as noisy
as an Irish parliament. All hands were now
assembled to leeward of the galley, some
of them kicking the meat about with their
feet, and they looked a very formidable
body of men. There are two periods when
sailors are proverbially ill-tempered : when
they are hungry, and when they are newly
aroused from sleep. In this case the men
were hungry, and as each man in my watch
honestly believed he could eat up all that the
appetites of his mates were likely to leave
him, there was a great deal of grumbling
over my suggestion. However, there was
common sense in it, and it prevailed at
last ; and I went aft to get the skipper's
leave to order the steward to serve out
another dinner of meat to the port watch.

But the men only waited until my back
was turned to fasten upon the cook ; they
drove him out of the galley and got him
under the port forecastle ladder, and here
they pelted him with the pieces of capsized
meat, their temper rising with the progress

of their revenge, until, conceiving that they
would end in pitching him overboard, he
started out of his corner with a loud yell,
burst through the men like smoke, and
came pelting into the cuddy, streaming with
grease and sweat, followed by all hands,
who, however, stopped short at the quarterdeck
capstan.

It happened that Mr. Thomas, hearing
the row going on forward, and not a little
alarmed by the shout uttered by the cook
before he fled, threw open his cabin door,
and ran out just in time to meet the cook,
who, coming up tilt against him, sent him
floundering on his back; the cook pitched
over him, striking the Spinosa' cabin
door with a crash that produced a loud cry
from the terrified Spanish merchant, who
was evidently under the impression that
some dangerous accident had befallen the
ship.

I saw all this as I was making my way to
the captain's cabin, and nearly suffocated
with laughter at the expression on the little
mate's face as he got up and wiped the
grease off his cheek and clothes. He was

blue with rage, for he valued his clothes
more than his dignity.

What is all this uproar about ? " exclaimed
the captain in his deep tragedy
voice, throwing open his door.

They want to murder me, sir ! " gasped
the cook. " They've threatened to slit my
throat, sir ! they're a-waiting' to dash open
my 'ed, sir, and scatter my intellects ! " he
cried, making his case, with the cunning of
cowardice, a desperate one, that he might
be sure of the captain's support.

He certainly looked a dreadful object, with
great lumps of fat sticking in his hah", and
his face beautifully lined with the grease of
the meat, that, having been rolled about by
the feet of the men, had gathered from the
deck and cable-range, as you may believe, a
very pretty variety of dirt, and his fat body
quivering in his blue shirt like a jelly in a
napkin.

What's dat? Murder? Coot treats !
Split open hands — eh ! eh ! " shouted a voice,
and the Spinosa' cabin door flew open
and out bolted the Spanish merchant. He
plumped up against the cuddy table with

the roll of the ship, and gazing around him
with an eye bright with terror, stood for
some seconds staring at the cook and then
rushed up to the captain, leaving the door
of the cabin, in which his wife lay, wide
open. He had nothing on but a day-shirt
and a pair of silk drawers, and it was
perhaps fortunate for me that my astonishment
at the magnitude of the results
following the trifling accident of a capsized
mess kid overpowered my sense of the
ridiculous.

What is dat I hear, captain ? " he sputtered.
" Murder! cut troat ! Volga ne
Dios! what do he do here?" pointing to
the cook. " que es eso, que es eso, peu ! "
and grabbing at his stomach he tumbled
upon the deck, too sick to stand.

Antonio ! Antonio ! " shrieked his wife;
where are you, Antonio ? Do you know
you have left the door open, you cruel creature,
and everybody can see me ? "

Hereupon, to cut this matter short — for
really my heart ached for the poor lady who
lay exposed in her bunk — I sprang round
the table, collared the Spaniard, bundled

him neck and crop into his cabin, and shut
the door upon him.

What is the meaning of all this?"
exclaimed Captain Flanders, addressing me
with a great sternness of manner, though all
the same I do not think any one could have
failed to notice the look of indecision and
even alarm in his face ; " and what are all
the men waiting for yonder ? ' '

I told him what I knew of the incident of
the mess kid.

They're a-waiting' to murder me, sir!"
quavered the cook.

Nonsense ! " shouted little Thomas,
whose Welsh blood was glowing in every
fibre, and whose face was as red as a powder-flag.
" That fat ruffian knocked me down
in his terror, Captain Flanders — sent me
sprawling, sir, covered with his infernal
dripping — and if the men boil him in his
own coppers, by the Lord ! he'll get no more
than he deserves."

Mr. Thomas, I am surprised to hear
such language from you, sir. I won't allow
it, sir ! It shows a spiritual neglect that's
intolerable to me to witness in a man of

education and an officer in the mercantile
marine," exclaimed the captain, waving his
arm with a most impressive gesture, and
scowling down upon the little man.

Here the Spinosa' door was opened a
couple of inches, and the Spaniard thrust
out his long nose.

Captain, captain ! " he quavered. " Has
he gone yet ? que demon ! que demon ! "

Do, Captain Flanders, lock this door,
please ; he'll be exposing me again, captain
! " called out Madam Espinosa.

However, Antonio had twisted his nose
round to command the cuddy, and encountering
the eyes of the cook fixed upon
him, he slammed the door instantly, and I
heard him rattling away in his native lingo
to his wife, who gave it him back pretty
hot, as I am bound to confess.

Mr. Thomas made no reply to the skipper's
very offensive and unnecessary rebuke,
but repeatedly glanced at him with bitter
indignation, whilst he endeavoured to get
rid of some of the grease upon his waistcoat
by rubbing it with a pocket-handkerchief.

"What are you doing aft here?" I

shouted to the cook, longing to kick him
for the bother he had brought upon all
hands. " Leave the cuddy this moment,
sir ! Away with you forward ! ' '

Look there, captain!" he answered,
pointing to the quarter-deck; " they're all
a-waiting' for me ; it's more than my life's
worth to go forward, sir."

Captain Flanders paid no attention to
what he said, but addressing Mr. Thomas
with a burst of irritability, exclaimed, "I
desire that you will not stare at me in
that way, sir. Give me leave to tell you,
Mr. Thomas, that it is ungentlemanly and
offensive, and a sign of low breeding, sir,
to stare at any one as you are staring
at me ! "

At this speech Mr. Thomas's wrath seemed
to desert him, and cocking his eyebrows
at me in such a way that it twisted his
little face into a complete note of interrogation,
he slued himself round and disappeared
in his cabin.

The captain walked aft.

Pray, sir," I shouted, " what am I todo
with the men ? The port watch haven't

had any dinner. Shall the steward serve
out some more beef to them, sir ? "

"Act as yon think best, Mr. Lee," he
replied with great blandness. " Your judgment
will direct you." And to my very
great astonishment, he entered his cabin
and shut the door.

I went on to the poop and sung out to
the men, several of whom had gone forward,
that the captain had ordered a fresh supply
of meat to be given them, and that in consideration
of the starboard watch sharing
their beef with the men in the port watch,
I would take it on myself to order grog to
be served to all hands ; but on condition
that they gave me their word not to further
molest the cook. This proposal raised a
cheer among them, and whilst they all lay
aft to drink the grog that the steward
handed to them from the quarter-deck capstan,
the cook went forward and not a word
was said to him.

I made Nelly laugh with my description
of Espinosa's fright and the scene in the
cuddy, but the significant part of the incident
I kept to myself — I mean the extraordinary

conduct of Captain Flanders.
Presently the tiffin-bell rang and she went
down to lunch, promising to ask for a piece
of salt beef as I had advised, and to whiten
her teeth upon a sea-biscuit.

The breeze had somewhat moderated, and
was now blowing dead from the west ; the
ship was laying her course, and could well
carry all the sail I chose to give her. The
reefs were shaken out of the fore and mizzen
topsails, the royal set, and the fore-top-mast
stun'sail run up. The extra pressure
sent the old hooker swirling through it
nobly. On either bow the foam stood up like
snow-hills, and rushed glittering and creaming
aft, as though churned up by paddle-wheels.
The swell was broad on the starboard
quarter, and when the ship's head
sank to the rise of it aft, the green sea was
frothed a dozen fathoms away beyond her
bows ; and as her stern came down again,
you could see the stun'sail boom buckle,
and every sail swell out as though a gale
had taken it, whilst all along the poop the
breastwork quivered with fitful flashes, bright
as the sunlight in a mirror, and the tiller

chains clanked harshly as the green seas
poured away in a roar under her counter.

I did not see Mr. Thomas again until he
came on deck to relieve me, and then I
stayed a few minutes to exchange some
words with him. His Welsh spirit still
fretted angrily over the treatment he had
received in the cuddy, and he complained
bitterly of what he spoke of as the " unwarrantable
insult " that had been offered
him.

Bolt, the pilot, also complained of his
having insulted him," said I. " Did I tell
you, Mr. Thomas, that the captain gave
him a tract to read upon profane swearing ?
That is his hobby, and I don't say it isn't a
good one, only he has no right to affront
people with it."

I'll tell you what it is, Lee ; I'm beginning
to believe my friend was right when he
told me that the skipper's father hanged
himself."

There's no doubt that Captain Flanders
is eccentric," said I.

"Ay, damned eccentric!" he exclaimed
with a scowl, looking aloft.

He believes in spirits and primitive
Christianity, sir, and says that people
ought to pray only out-of-doors. But I
don't think, Mr. Thomas, that we should
consider a man cranky for holding views we
can't understand or decline to accept. He
may be right, and if so, then it is w r e who
must be cranky for not agreeing with him."

For the matter of that, he's welcome to
believe in anything he likes," growled the
little man ; " but any belief that makes
him think himself entitled to insult me
before a greasy lubber of a cockney sea-cook
won't suit my book, and whether he's
right or not in his ideas, I shall never
believe that his head-timbers are sound."

Still, do you know, sir," said I, " that I
do believe he is a good man at bottom,
and means the right thing. His sending
me away in the boat the other night to the
French ship might have been unseaman-
like, but it proves him a humane man, and
we ought to let that score heavily in his
favour, sir, seeing the stuff that a good
many sea-captains are made of nowadays.
His notions of swearing may be a little too

strict for shipboard, but it's better to be
out of your reckoning too far to windward
than too far to leeward — that's tiny way of
thinking."

"But what on earth did he mean by
telling me not to stare at him ? " the little
man shouted, as red as fire over the thought
of it. " Did you hear him call me ungentlemanly
and low-bred, and wanting in
manners and the Lord knows what besides
for so doing ? I, who can trace my descent
to Ap-Thomas the bard, a real chieftain,
Mr. Lee, who lived three hundred years
ago, and one of whose forefathers was a
prince, by jingo ! "

I had thought this the worst part of the
whole business, and it was the only part
that had given me real uneasiness. However,
I made him no answer, for, in truth,
neither of us had as yet had any time to
form a solid judgment, and I believed
no good would come of alarming each
other.

At this point we were interrupted by the
captain coming on deck, on which, with an
expression of uneasiness, Mr. Thomas told

VOL. I. L

me I had better go below; and down I
went.

During the afternoon a large schooner
had been made out, with nothing but her
topsails visible above the horizon on the
weather quarter. She was heading S.E.,
and we were heading S.S.W., and consequently
before I quitted the deck we had
risen her hull. At four bells she was about
a couple of miles away to windward, and
she was then seen to be a long, large, exceedingly
beautiful schooner yacht, of certainly
not less than two hundred and fifty
tons burden, the very handsomest vessel of
her class I had ever set eyes on. I thought
she had meant to cross our stern, and was
watching her with great interest as she
swept like a swan over the long rollers, her
copper bottom gleaming like dark gold
under the .green surges, which fell hissing
and boiling away from her bows, whilst her
sails, as white as milk, swayed with the
airy grace of a gull's wings against the
Indian blue of the western evening sky,
and the sun flashed in her streaming ebony-black
sides as she yawed to the great ocean

swell that chased her, when she suddenly
hauled her wind and headed on a course
directly parallel with ours.

Hilloo ! " thought I, " she wants to try
her speed with us."

Through the glass I could see some ladies
aft, watching us, with a number of gentlemen,
and forward was her crew, a whole
mob of smartly dressed sailors. All the
canvas she could show was packed on her.
She had got the wind as we had, abeam —
not her best sailing point, perhaps, but it
laid her port bulwarks almost flush with the
water ; and through it she tore, the spray
flashing in smoke over her nose, and her
decks and hull all in a quiver with the play
of the sunshine on them.

She was fore-reaching on us fast. I could
easily imagine that this effort to pass us
was the result of an after-dinner wager, and
certainly the gestures and movements of
the gentlemen were full of excitement. I
stood with Nelly, and Mr. Thomas looking
at her over the weather poop-rail.

Why, Mr. Thomas," said I, " we mustn't
let her beat us 1 "

"But suppose we can't help it? " quoth
Mr. Thomas.

"Lord, how she smokes through it!" I
ejaculated, and I ran my eye aloft at our
own canvas ; every sail was drawing, and as
round as the side of an apple.

Captain Flanders stood near the wheel,
now and again turning his head to glance at
the yacht, but evidently taking very little
interest in the race. I could see the hands
forward gazing aft at us eagerly, as though
wondering that no orders came to them, for
we could have set at least three more sun's
if no more ; and what they would
have done for the W alder share we could
only have waited and seen. But the skipper
made no sign, and so we had to watch
ourselves being beaten.

Our own speed was not less than ten
knots, and the yacht I calculated could not
be doing less than thirteen. Presently she
ran up her distinguishing flag — a square
with yellow ground, and a horizontal arrow.
However, we could make nothing of this,
not having a reference book.

Hoist the answering pennant," sung out

Captain Flanders ; and as I went aft to
bend the flag on to the signal halliards, he
said, " She'll be hailing us in a minute, and
she can read our name."

It was a wonderful and beautiful sight to
see her flying along the water, with her
white decks bare to our gaze as they seemed
to lean almost up and down to us ; sometimes
lifted high on a green swell, which
she dashed into foam where it took her,
then sinking behind a long, high, emerald-bright
ridge that hid the whole of her hull,
whilst her slender wake trailed away into
the toppling seas astern, like a long thread
of silver ; though I dare say she found usa
noble sight too, with our vast spread of
symmetrical canvas soaring into the sky,
and the whole beautiful hull exposed as it
leaned away from her, laying bare a broad
length of shining copper, and dashing off
the seas in tall fountains of foam which
were as full of colour as a prism.

Ashen she was almost abeam of us they
gave her a wide sheer ; this brought her so
close that the faces of the people aboard
were distinctly visible. The ladies consisted

of two very pretty young women and a matronly
looking old dowager. There were no
less than five gentlemen, one of whom, a
tall, handsome young man in a bine jacket,
thrown carelessly over a white flannel shirt,
hailed us.

We've read your name on your stern.
Your hull is a beautiful one, and you ought
to be a fast ship ; but the Violet can show
you any road you want to take."

Answer him, Mr. Lee," called out the
skipper, possibly afraid of being " chaffed "
before the crew, who were crowding the
forecastle, and giving my voice the preference
over Mr. Thomas's, which certainly
had not much carrying power.

We're bound round the Horn ; will you
pilot us ? " I bawled through my hands.

I could see them all laughing as he shook
his head.

If you were bound to a warmer climate,"
he answered, " we should be happy to call
in and tell them you're coming."

"We should like to know the name of
the owner of that yacht ? "

Lord ," he shouted back.

Is his lordship aboard ? "

He nodded and waved his hand, on which
I pulled off my hat, and he returned the
bow.

M If I could come near enough to you,"
he cried, " I'd throw a case of champagne
on board ; but you must take the will for
the deed. Where are you bound to ? "

"Callao. And you?"

Gibraltar. A prosperous voyage ! "

And as he said this, the yacht's helm was
put down. We instantly forged ahead. Then
she put her helm up, eased off her sheets,
and ran under our stern, the ladies waving
then handkerchiefs and the gentlemen their
hats, which salutations we returned with
hearty good will.

Bound to Gibraltar, eh?" grumbled
little Thomas. " That's the sort of sailoring
I should like. Plenty of champagne
and cigars, eh, Mr. Lee ? and nothing to do
but to read novels and be blown along by
the wind."

"I am afraid Captain Flanders is going
to be polite," exclaimed Nelly, with a
glance over her shoulder, and looking

down at the chief mate with a pout.
This was true enough, but then she had
seen him coming. He gave her his arm,
and as he led her away, I heard him congratulate
her on being so good a sailor.

"Lee," said Mr. Thomas, looking after
her, and then giving me an interrogative
squint, " what a very fine, frank, charming
woman Miss Maitland is ! "

I started at the name, but recollecting
myself, said, " Very."

I tell you what it is," said he with a
grin; "you and she have met before. No
nonsense ! You're old friends."

We are," I answered ; and I thereupon
told him as much of the story as I thought
it necessary he should know. I explained
that she and I were engaged to be married,
and that she had resolved to take this
voyage with me.

Well, there's nothing odd in that," says
he, pulling his beard ; " but the idea isn't a
bad one, and if I had thought of it, and
could have mustered the money, dash my
wig if I wouldn't have shipped my wife in
the same way. Nobody could object. Any

woman may take a passage in a ship if she
pays for it. But you were groaning to me
the other night over the hardship of having
to leave your sweetheart, although now you
say you knew she was coming."

Did I say that? Well, it was my
awkward way of expressing sympathy for
you. Your description of your feelings at
having to leave your wife affected me, sir.
I thought you would feel comforted if I
put myself with you in the same boat,
Mr. Thomas."

"Well, well," said he, looking mystified,
"when a man's in love, he's bound
to contradict himself. But it's no business
of mine. You've got a plucky girl for a
sweetheart, and I hope you'll treat her
well, Mr. Lee. Only take my advice, and
don't let the skipper get scent of your
romance, or you'll set him writing tracts
and neglecting the ship's reckoning, and
he'll be down on you tooth and nail for
being immoral enough to love anybody but
yourself." He cast a vindictive look in the
direction of the captain.

"All that the skipper knows about it,"

said I, " is that Miss Maitland and I were
acquainted before we met on this ship, and
that she herself explained to horn. ,, I
thought it best to speak of her as Miss
Maitland. It might have complicated the
romance too much for Mr. Thomas's sympathy
to have told him that she was sailing
under false colours.

"I suppose you know," said he, "that
the skipper's a widower ? "

"I did not know," I answered; " but I
should have been more surprised to hear
that he had got a wife living."

This sarcasm was too fine for Thomas.

You must take care, Lee, that he don't
go and fall in love with your sweetheart,"
he continued, with a grin so broad that it
was impossible to look at it without laughing.


That won't make me uneasy' I answered.
"Indeed, I rather wish it would
happen, for it would double his anxiety that
she should be comfortable."

"Ay, but suppose," said he, thrusting
his little hands into his waistcoat pockets
as though he strove to subdue the occasional

heave of internal mirth that convulsed
his minute frame — " suppose, Lee,
he should find out that you are her sweetheart,
and turn to and grow jealous, eh ?
and sulk over you in his cabin, and plot
a diabolical scheme to get rid of you, eh,
Lee ? Ha ! ha ! Why, love stops at
nothing — let Miss Maitland witness to that
beautiful idea ! "

She'll have to believe in spirits before
he falls in love with her," said I, looking
at Nelly as she paced alongside of the
skipper on the weather side of the poop,
holding on to his arm, whilst I could hear
his deep voice sounding in a ruffled growl,
and his left arm working like a pump-handle.
It was not to be supposed that
the mate's suggestion could make me very
uneasy ; yet it did flash upon me that if
the skipper should fall in love with her —
and the amiable manner in which she
listened to his talk about spirits and primitive
Christianity was as likely to win him
as anything I could imagine — my sweetheart's
position would be a rather embarrassing
one.

Chapter VI.

THE Fag-end OF A CYCLONE.

On Wednesday we were in latitude 40 and
longitude about 16° 5', — some two hundred
miles to the eastward of the Azores. The
fresh westerly breeze had given us frisky
heels, and we had rolled through the Bay
of Biscay into the broad bosom of the North
Atlantic, with our fore-topmast stun'sail set
day and night, and with no other meddling
with the running rigging than the occasional
hauling taut or slackening of the
weather-braces.

By this time both Madam Espinosa and
Mr. Black had got, or professed to have
got, over their sickness, and were often on
deck, and even occupied their places at the
cuddy table, though their appetites were
small ; but the poor Spaniard's stomach

was still anywhere but in its right place,
and when he came on deck shortly afternoon
on this Wednesday, for the first time
since we had cleared the English Channel,
he presented one of the most ludicrously
pitiable figures mortal foreigner ever cut
at sea.

To begin with, his wife had pinned around
his head (at his own request, no doubt) an
immense blue silk handkerchief or shawl,
as big as a flag, rolled up into the shape
of a turban, the ends of which fell down
his back as far as the small of it. Under
this turban his huge hooked nose stuck out
like a signboard ; his face was as yellow asa
guinea, and the contrast of it with the
blue of his head-gear did not add to his
loveliness, as you may believe. He wore a
long flapping bright-green dressing-gown
that descended to his ankles, and below
sprawled his feet, thrust into a pair of long
yellow slippers with toes of highly varnished
red leather. As this extraordinary figure
came slowly up the companion, moving
upwards in fitful jerks, which were produced,
as I found, by his wife who followed behind,

and was helping him with an occasional
shove, the man at the wheel, a grim, unshaven
salt, gazed at him for some moments
with his mouth wide open, astounded and
even alarmed hy the extraordinary apparition,
until the truth dawning upon him, he
gave vent to his feelings in a loud yell of
laughter, and, as if to show how utterly
unable he was to control himself, spat his
quid clean overboard.

However, the fresh air did the poor
fellow some good, for after a bit he began
to look about him, and hold out his long
yellow claws to the sun, that was hot
enough to suit even a negro, though when
now and again the vessel gave an extra
pitch — like a capering colt startled into a
wilder frisk by a gad-fly — he would lay hold
of the arms of his chair and deliver himself
of a deep groan, I have seen old sailors,
as seasoned, you would have thought, to
every possible motion of a ship as their
stomachs were to salt junk, as sick as dogs
in short cross seas, or when lying roasting
and rolling upon a glassy tropical ocean ;
but I never suffered from sea sickness in my

life, and so I do not pretend to know what
the feeling is like ; but no experience of it
in others ever brought rne so near to comprehending
the horrors of it as did the face
of the Spaniard, as he sat to-day in his blue
turban, groaning and toasting himself in
the sunshine.

I went up to him out of civility and asked
him how he did.

Bad," said he ; " varee bad ! "

"Oh, you'll get over it soon," said I,
cheerfully. " You must eat, my dear sir —
force yourself to eat : you never know
what's going to ease you." He held up
his hand, but not understanding the gesture,
I went on : " The captain of the last ship
I was in always endeavoured to get his
passengers who complained of sea-sickness
to eat. < Try forward, and then try back
again,' he would say. ' First taste this,
then that : if boiled mutton fails, pickled
pork may succeed; and if pickled pork
don't do '"

Guided I " yelled the Spaniard, and I
had just time to hop aside.

"Bo'sun ! " I shouted, "send a hand aft

here with a swab and a bucket of water. "
And I quitted Mr. Espinosa with a very
sheepish face. Evidently I was not the
kind of physician he wanted. Indeed, he
called his wife and begged her to entreat
me not to approach him again until he was
quite well : a message she delivered with a
good deal of bluntness, though I believe she
did not mean to be offensive, but that she
thought I would be tickled by her girlish
candour. I know nothing more uncomfortable
than a middle-aged woman who gives
herself the airs of a maiden and gushes on
trifles, just as if people were blind and could
not see that she was altogether too old for
enthusiasms. I could scarcely forbear
laughing in this poor lady's face when I
glanced over her hull, that was as motherly
as a chubby-sided South Seaman, and peeped
at the corner of her eyes, where the powder
lay snug in the crows-feet, whilst she was
giggling away as if she was not yet turned
forty, and feigning a rapture over everything,
whether she thought it tiresome or
not. I did not notice that she gave her
husband much of her attention : but I am

not going to blame her for that ; she had
scarcely got over her own sea-sickness ;
and really, when I looked at the poor guinea-coloured
creature, with his nose that casta
shadow upon the deck as big as a flying-jib,
and his long saffron-tinted fingers, which
the rings somehow made extraordinarily
ugly, and the skin of his throat like an old
piece of parchment covering a whipcord
frame, I could not but think that she
deserved some credit for not having drowned
him months before, or ridding herself of
him in some other way; for she, at all
events, was a presentable woman, whereas
he was the ugliest man that nature ever let
loose upon the world.

I had returned from giving some directions
to the ship's carpenter, and was standing
on the weather side of the poop close
against the ladder, glancing aloft at the
canvas and admiring the spread and set of
it, and then looking down at the shipside,
the green of which gaily matched the
glorious blue of the sea, divided, as they
were by a broad line of foam through which
the copper shone with sudden glancing of

VOL. I. M

dull golden light as the ship lurched to
leeward, when Captain Flanders walked slap
up to me and stationed himself by my side.

u The barometer is falling, Mr. Lee," he
said, " yet the weather looks settled."

Yes, sir, it looks steady enough all to
windward, though I don't know if that haze
to leeward means anything."

He stooped his head so as to see the lee
horizon under the foot of the mainsail.
I forgot to ask you the other day," said
he, rearing his body slowly, and confronting
me with his long, gaunt face, and speaking
in his deepest tones — " but my memory is
not what it was — whether in the unhappy
quarrel that took place between the cook
and the crew there was any bad language
used ? "

I didn't hear any, sir," I replied.

"I presume not," he exclaimed, fixing
his gloomy eyes full on my face ; " otherwise
you would have reported it to meas
you have received my orders on that
subject."

No, sir, I can't say I noticed that any
bad language was used."

What sort of a disposition have you
observed among the crew ? "

They seem a very steady, willing crew,
sir "

"I don't mean that," lie interrupted.
Do they seem a thoughtful crew ? "

Upon my word, sir," I replied, a good
deal puzzled, " I really can't say."

I have been wishing to deliver them a
series of lectures on religious subjects, Mr.
Lee, but am willing to consult you before
I do so, because I am by nature a very
sensitive man; and if there are any blasphemers
or impious men forward, I should
not like to subject myself to their jeers,
although," he muttered, striking his hands
together, " my misgiving shows a deplorably
weak heart — a heart for which the
noble apostolic example has done nothing,
nothing ! " and he stamped his foot heavily
on the deck.

I am flattered that you should think fit
to consult me on this subject, sir," I
answered, " but I should prefer not to give
an opinion."

Speak out ! " he exclaimed angrily. " I

consult you as one of my officers, and I expect
that you will give me an opinion."

May I first ask," said I, pretty considerably
taken aback, "what are the subjects
you propose to lecture upon, sir ? "

His eyes lighted up, and he inclined his
head towards me with an eager gesture.

On the existence of spirits," he exclaimed
in a low, very earnest voice. " I have
twelve lectures by me on that subject, written
by myself, in which I prove that the air we
breathe is full of spirits. But understand,
Mr. Lee, before the material eye is qualified
to behold and the ear to hear these spirits,
the heart must have faith ; and it is that
faith I wish to impart to the ship's crew, if

if " He wandered, as if in search of a

word, and then stormed dead.

I thought this strange talk for a sea-captain
to hold to his officer, more especially
with a falling barometer below. How the
dickens came this man to get command of a
ship ? thought I ; and as I ran my eye over
the noble fabric and thought of the number
of lives over which he had as much control
as any imperial despot, the significance of his
craziness smote me violently.

"You have demanded au opinion from
me, sir," said I, after waiting a few moments
to see if lie had anything more to say, and
observing the look of abstraction in his
eyes, " and I will give it : I don't think the
men would understand your lectures, and
indeed, considering the work they have to
get through, and the rough, hard life of a
forecastle, I don't think they would thank
you for any sort of lectures. When on deck
they ought to be at work, and when below
they want to turn in."

That's blunt enough for him, anyhow,
thought I, and the plain truth too.

U I was afraid so," he exclaimed, folding
his arms. "And, after all, can we expect
the vulgar and the uneducated to receive
the light, when those who are cultivated and
have minds to reason with refuse to heed
it?"

Xo sir," said I, " and that's why I think
you would only be wasting time in trying to
put ideas into the heads of the men yonder."

I am afraid you are right, Mr. Lee, and
I am obliged to you for your opinion." So
saying, he was about to walk aft, when he

stopped and said, " Miss Maitland tells me
you knew her before you joined this ship."

I did, sir," I replied, colouring up a trifle
and stealing a glance at Nelly, who, whilst
pretending to listen to Mr. Black, was looking
our way and evidently thinking of us.

She is a charming person — a most intellectual
woman," he exclaimed with great
energy. " She seems thoroughly to understand
my views, and one convert I am
certain of."

I stared after him as he walked away, not
taking any note ( as Mr. Thomas might have
sworn I did) of what he said about Nelly,
but thinking over what should be done if
his madness increased. Here we were only
seven days out, and in that time I myself
could see that his eccentric conduct and
language were a great deal more pronounced
than when in the Channel, though
even then they were apparent enough to
detain my attention. Whether the state of
his mind was known to the men I had as
yet had no means of ascertaining, and I was
not going to commit so rash an act as to
make inquiries among them ; but I am now

persuaded that they suspected nothing
neither at that nor at a much later time.
The passengers, with the exception of Nelly,
having he en sick and confined to their
cabins, would have had no opportunity of
judging him ; indeed, if even Mr. Black were
sharp enough to penetrate the truth, it
would he necessary for the captain to converse
with him about spirits and primitive
Christianity, as he had conversed with me
and Nelly on those subjects, before the
Scotchman could arrive at any conclusion,
and then would not he suppose that Captain
Flanders was eccentric merely on these two
points ? Madam Espinosa had not, in my
judgment, sense enough to know a madman
even when she saw one ; and the Spaniard
as a foreigner, would accept everything as
illustrative of the character of the British
seaman. Hence, so far as I could judge, the
secret was known to or suspected by myself
and Nelly only; for Mr. Thomas himself
had as good as told me that he looked upon
the skipper's talk as a mere trick to deceive
and make fools of some of us. As I have
said, I wondered over and over again how

any firm of employers could have entrusted
command of a valuable ship to such a man.
But so many causes operate in such matters
that no conjecture can ever hit the exact
truth. He might have an interest in the
firm, or he was a connection of one of the
partners, or maybe no suspicion that his
mind was diseased was felt at the time
when he was appointed. I had never a
character for being curious, and in those
careless young days I took things as they
came, and never troubled myself to look into
them. Hence I am unable to say more
about Captain Flanders than what I can
find in my recollection of him. Difficult as
his character and manners are to convey by
the pen — indeed, I may say I have found it
impossible to approach in writing the impression
my mind carries of him — I have
thought proper to do my best with his story,
that the reader may understand that
travellers by sea are exposed to other perils
than those which are contained in the
stock hazards of tempest, fire, and mutiny.

Before I went below at four o'clock I
noticed that the set of the swell, which had

been running all day steady from the westward,
had veered right round to the northward,
and had become heavier. This was a
circumstance of such rare occurrence that
in all my life I have only met two seamen
who could recall a like experience. At the
same time the wind hauled forward, blowing
S.W. by S. This obliged me to brace the
yards sharp up, and even then we were some
points off our course. There was no appearance
of dirty weather. The haze to the
eastward had lifted and the sky was a bright
blue, with a few rainy-looking clouds stretching
across it, their shadows sailing in slate-coloured
patches across the leaping waters.
The pitching of the ship, however, made
the decks extremely uncomfortable, and
proved altogether too violent for poor
Espinosa, whose chair capsized under him ;
he tumbled over in such a way that the tails
of his dressing-gown got foul of his head,
and away he rolled, like a man in a sack,
until he was brought up by a hencoop, which
he struck with a thump that set all the
hens cackling in a fright. His wife laughed
at him, but Nelly, with more humanity,

sprang forward to his assistance, and whilst
she cleared his head of his gown, I got
him on to his feet and led him back to his
chair, which I fixed against the mizzen-mast,.
and secured by a turn with a rope's end.

I observed another fall in the mercury
when I went below at four bells. This was
the second dog-watch, and I was not disposed
to lie down ; so, freshening myself up
a bit with a hair-brush and a towel, I went
on deck again, to be with Nelly if possible,
that is, if the skipper left the poop, for, as I
have said, I made a rule of keeping away
from her when he was looking on. It was
very warm and the breeze dropping fast,
but there was quite enough wind to keep
the sails full, though you could have told
the decrease in the ship's speed by the
slopping sound of the water alongside. Our
decks looked as clean and smart as a man-of-war's,
and all aloft taut, and the sails set,
and the yards braced to a hair. No ship
ever put to sea with a better boatswain than
the one we had. With his silver whistle
slung round his neck, his bronzed face peering
between an enormous pair of bushy

whiskers, his great hairy arms ringed with
bracelets and scored with crucifixes, stars,
and other devices of that kind, bared to the
elbows, his open shirt revealing his mossy
breast and his full, muscular throat, the
skin of which below the collar-rim was as
fair as a woman's hand, Mr. Sinnet, the
boatswain of the WaldersJiare, was a fine
specimen of the English merchant sailor,
with a voice like a hurricane, an eye for the
minutest stain on the ship's deck, full of
sympathy for sailors and their grievances, of
which his mind held a catalogue as long asa
mainland, and a knack of keeping the
men under him perpetually at work without
hazing " them, as the Yankees say.

In most ships all hands are employed on
deck during the afternoon : this was the
case in the Waldershare, and the crew
knocked off work in the second dog-watch.
All the men were now on deck, the boatswain
leaning against his cabin door, smoking
and yarning to the carpenter, who
squatted on a bench in the doorway ; the
steward arranging with the cook about
the cuddy dinner, in the galley, from the

chimney of which the smoke poured downwards,
striking the water under the foot
of the main-topmast staysail and blowing
away on the top of the waves ; whilst on
the forecastle the men hung in groups —
here one of them putting a patch into an
old pair of trousers, there another greasing
his sea-hoots, some listening whilst one
read aloud from a fragment of an old
newspaper, others conversing with short
black pipes, the howls of which were inverted,
in their mouths, as they leaned
over the forecastle rail watching the green
water coiling away from the ship's side,
hissing like a serpent as it ran aft. Now
and then from the interior of the forecastle
came the sound of the scraping of
a fiddle. As I watched the man reading
frown the old bit of newspaper, I smiled
to think that here we were sailing away
from England and Europe, and that for
months, perhaps, we should hear no news
of what was going on there ; that in our
absence kings might die, new constitutions
be created, wars declared ; and that ashore
all the people would be thinking what

wonderful times they lived in, and boastings
the changes which must make their period
a famous one in history ; whereas we should
come home and see no change anywhere,
only a few more houses built, and some
remembered faces missing, whilst the people
still went about their work, and the sun
looked down upon the same old scenes and
interests. I suppose it is our vanity that
causes us always to think ours the great
age of change. But it makes the sailor
laugh when he comes home to hear how
much has happened and to see how little
things have altered.

When dinner was served in the cuddy
we all of us, including Espinosa, took our
seats at the table, Mr. Thomas remaining*
on deck. I invariably noticed that the
captain seemed easier in his manner when
the chief mate was away, and this evening
his talk — though, to be sure, he did not
talk very much, after all — was so sensible,
that I should have defied any one to suppose
he was not in full possession of his faculties.
He predicted that we should have a storm
before twelve hours had passed, and said

that this heavy swell from the northwards
was full of meaning to him. And then he
related to Nelly his experience of a typhoon
in the Bay of Bengal ; how, about an hour
before sunset, the sky all away to the eastward
was blood red, and the sea like an
ocean of cochineal, and how this dreadful
redness lasted till nearly midnight, during
which time every one on board looked as
if he had been painted over with vermilion,
while the whole sea was on fire with phosphorus,
and spread out like a vast surface
of glass, licked underneath by long green
and blue and white flames.

I had witnessed a spectacle much resembling
this when becalmed off Antigua,
and therefore knew he had not exaggerated
in his description of it. Nelly, however,
sometimes glanced at me, with a faint incredulous
smile, as much as to say, " Will,
another hallucination, poor fellow ! " yet for
all that she listened to him with a great
deal of interest. Indeed, he seemed to
have hit the topic that suited his hollow
face and glowing eyes when he talked of
red skies and blue and green fires, and as

lie went on in his deep voice, with Nelly
listening to him, I thought of the Ancient
Mariner and the Wedding Guest.

The cuddy being well aft, the pitch of
the ship was felt in its full force ; the bulkheads
creaked furiously ; the crockery in the
steward's pantry rattled with an occasional
smash ; now and again might be heard the
grind of the rudder, and the dull thunder
of the swell as it struck the ship heavily
under the counter ; the swinging trays
would plunge out of reach ; plates sliced
fore and aft ; knives and spoons tumbled
into one's lap or on to the deck with a
clatter, and I had to calculate the moment
when to lift a fork to my mouth, in order
that I might not drive it into my eye or
my ear. In short, everything that wasn't
lashed fetched away; and, among other
things, Mr. Black, against whose chair a
sudden lurch had propelled the steward,
and over they both toppled, dragging the
table-cloth half off with them. The Scotchman
crawled on his hands and knees into
his cabin, and shutting the door upon himself
with a loud slam, gave vent to his

feelings in an uproar that instantly did for
poor Espinosa, who, though eating nothing,
had been manfully holding on to the table
and giving battle to his nausea, as we most
of us saw by his rolling eyes ; but the moment
he heard Mr. Black, then, as a war-horse
pricks his ears to the notes of a trumpet,
he started up with a convulsed face, slued
around with outstretched wandering hands,
and dashed, or rather fell, headlong into his
cabin, where he was presently followed by
his wife, who for some minutes had been
sitting with a handkerchief stuffed into her
mouth.

I should like to go on deck," said Nelly,
looking very pale ; and really, the sounds
which now issued from the cabins, to right
and left, might have disordered the stomach
of a whaling captain. In a moment the skipper
got up and offered her his arm, and
after lingering a few moments to swallow a
glass of sherry, I followed them.

The wind was fast dying away, and the
sun was going down into a bed of clouds
that had risen whilst we sat at dinner. The
captain had handed Nelly to a chair, and I

noticed him standing at the wheel, looking
steadily into the west, as a man might who
had reason to know that something was to
be expected from that quarter. " After all,"
thought I, "if he has not his wits about
him, he has enough to relieve those under
him from much anxiety." Mr. Thomas had
vanished, and looking through the skylight,
I saw him eating away heartily with his
arms squared, deaf to the complaining
sounds in the cabins. I asked Nelly how
she felt.

Quite well again. I am always well in
the air."

The sun looks angry, doesn't he ? "

"And beautiful too. See those lovely
colours streaking the upper portion of the
clouds there."

I am glad to find the captain looking
at the horizon with a rational eye. He
seemed as sound as an oyster-shell at
dinner."

"Yes, he did," she answered; "but he
is not sound, Will. As he led me on deck,
he said that a spirit had told him we were
going to have a storm."

VOL. I. n

God help him, then," said I. " I give
him up after that." I left her with something
like a feeling of real disappointment.
I had quite hoped I had exaggerated his
craziness, hut this piece of information
threw me all alack again, and maybe I
was now disposed to think him madder
than he was.

The clouds in the west were fast growing
into a magnificent spectacle as they rolled
slowly up to meet the sun, that was sinking
towards them. As yet they were detached,
though they stretched the whole length of
the western horizon ; but just below them
was a solid, motionless line, so exactly resembling
a coast, that it was impossible to
see it and not for the moment believe it
land. It was of a livid colour, as though
the great vaporous masses of front cloud
obstructed the light of the sun from it, and
against it the horizontal swell ran in outlines,
like dark-green hills, whilst on the
hither side of these running liquid lines, the
sea caught the red light of the sun and
shattered it into fragments of lurid crimson,
which it seemed to hurl right and left upon

its surface. All the edges of the upper
clouds directly looking up to the sun were
tinged with a deep crimson border, that
faded into amber as it crept towards the
centre ; and this rich colour was again followed
further down by a kind of yellow
brightness, like the sheen of pale gold, but
the centre and the skirts of the clouds were
dark, graduating from slate into a livid
gloom, corresponding with the motionless
range behind. I never witnessed a grander,
nor, indeed, a more awful sunset, nor beheld
at once so great a number of rich,
defined colours ; for it must be remembered
that on either hand of the sun the clouds,
as they stretched to the north and the
south, gathered a variety of lovely tints,
so that even the remotest clouds had a
pink effulgence in them, mixed with pearl
and delicate orange, whilst the sea all to-starboard
was equally full of colour, being,
a lively green near the ship, but as full of
shifting hues as the dolphin until it reached
the great stretch of dull reddish light thrown
down upon it by the sun, and which the
waves, as I have said, tore into fragments,

and tossed on their summits as though
flames were running up through the surface
of the sea out of the depths of it. It
was strange that the captain should have
pictured much such a scene as this at the
dinner-table, though he could not know
that it might be seen by going on deck, as
all this splendour had gathered whilst we
sat in the cuddy. Did it portend a cyclone ?
We might hope that we were scarcely far
enough south for that kind of gale, the very
worst a ship can encounter.

The men forward seemed fascinated by
the sunset, and stood looking at it in a
crowd on the starboard side of the forecastle.
We had all plain sail set, and the
starboard studding-sail booms rigged out.
Suddenly the wind utterly failed, and the
canvas pealed against the masts and rigging
with reports like the discharge of a
hundred small fire-arms. Mr. Thomas was
now on deck, looking at the sunset.

There's a gale of wind there," said he,
"but we shan't have it yet; the rain must
come first."

Get those stun'sail booms rigged in ! "

sung out the skipper, " and clew the royal
up and furl them."

The necessary orders were given, and the
light canvas melted in the calm blue overhead,
like summer clouds in the eye of the
morning sun.

Haul down the flying jib, and send some
hands aft to stow the crossjack ! "

"Hilloo!" thought I, "the spirits are
growing nervous."

A sail on the starboard beam ! " shouted
a voice from the main-topmast cross-trees.

What does she look like ? " bawled Mr.
Thomas.

Why, like a globe o' blood, sir."

Mr. Lee," exclaimed the captain, " take
the glass with you into the maintop and see
what you can make of her."

I fetched the glass, sprang into the main
rigging, and gained the top. I steadied the
glass in the top-gallant rigging, but the ship
was rolling so abominably, that it took me
some minutes to fix the vessel. I then
found that nothing below her topsail yards
was visible. So I clambered up to the
cross-trees, and from this elevation she was

distinct enough. The swell on the horizon
sometimes hid her, but I soon had my report
ready.

She's a small barque, sir, snugged right
away down to her topsails, which are close-reefed
; and they're either reefing or furling
her foresail, and she's pitching as I never
before saw any vessel pitch ! " I bellowed,
making my voice reach the deck with extreme
difficulty, for the canvas was rattling
about me as if a lot of nine-pounders were
being discharged all around in the air.

That'll do, Mr. Lee ! " shouted the
chief mate. " Lay down, sir ! "

However, I stayed a minute or two to
look around me. The view of the sunset
was not half so fine up here as from the
deck, owing to my being able to see from
my elevation a very tall breadth of the bank
of livid cloud below the illuminated masses ;
but the tumbling sea, along which the heavy
swell was rolling, the tops of which, burnished
by the sultry calm that had fallen,
were lucent with the red western glare,
whilst in their hollows the deep violet
shadows strongly defined the movements

of the sea to my eye, looking down from
my great altitude, presented a grand scene,
in the midst of which lay the long, narrow
hull of the Waldershare, plunging heavily,
shattering the water in foam all about her
stem as her counter came chopping down
into it, while her decks shone with the red
light that fell slanting from the west, and
red fires gleamed in the glass of the skylights
and in every piece of brass, and her
people looked like pygmies.

Clew up the top-gallant sails," I heard
the skipper sing out as I dropped over the
futtock-shrouds into the main rigging ; and
as I alighted on the top of the bulwark,
Mr. Thomas called to the boatswain to pipe
all hands to shorten sail. I thought this
a sensible move on the part of the skipper.
All hands were on deck, it is true, but only
the watch were doing the work; by snugging
down whilst there was daylight, and putting-all
the men to work while they were on
deck, would save a deal of trouble later on,
and was an order sure to please the crew.
The clear notes of the boatswain's pipe
echoed high above the heavy flogging of

the canvas, and in a few minutes both
watches were hard at work, letting go
halliards, hailing out reef-tackles and running
out along the yards. We had enough
hands to reef all three topsails at once
when there was no wind, and soon the men
were on the yards passing the earrings and
knotting the reef-points. The usual conditions
of reefing were wanting in this
instance — the ship flying through the
water, the gale ringing through the rigging,
the water hissing and boiling around her,
the pealing canvas bending the spars like
withes, and wringing the very mast-coats off
the decks ; nevertheless, there was noise,
and even excitement enough, for on each
yard the spirit of rivalry ruled strong. Each
gang wanted to be the first done, and it
was a lively sight to see them come
tumbling off the yards into the tops, and
sliding down the backstairs, or dropping
down the rigging to be first at the halliards,
and singing out before the others should be
down from aloft.

By the time the topsail halliards were
belayed the sun had gone, the advanced

clouds had lost their glory and, merged
into the solid wall behind, stood up to a
great height in the sky, which was of a sickly
red that extended far into the east, where
it became a sort of ash-colour. I never
remember beholding a more portentous
aspect of the heavens. The red haze had
faded out of the air, the sea was rapidly
growing dark, and the night was closing
in fast. There was not a breath of air, the
atmosphere was oppressively hot, and we
felt it the more now that there was no
canvas to fan the decks. With the exception
of the three close-reefed topsails,
the foresail (that was hauled close up to
the yard), and the fore-topmast staysail, the
vessel had not a rag of canvas showing, and
she looked as forlorn as poor Espinosa in his
silk drawers, as she rolled her naked spars
to and fro, to and fro, under the lurid and
threatening sky. Having no steerage-way,
she had fallen off, and the swell was right
abeam, with the black cloud-bank astern ;
but luckily within the last hour the swell
had considerably moderated, and the ship
in consequence was a good deal more

habitable, though it was still difficult to
keep one's footing without holding on with
the hands.

We're snug enough now, anyway," said
Mr. Thomas to me, pulling his hair over
his ears and smoothing down his waistcoat.
"But we shall be soaked first before the
wind comes to dry us. Hilloo ! that was a
bright flash ! Gad ! that looked typhoonish,
Mr. Lee ! " He was gazing astern as he
spoke, and I forward ; but though I had
not seen the flash where it leapt, I judged
its ferocity by the brilliant greenish glare
that filled the whole of the sky.

The skipper seems to know what he's
about," said I.

"Why, yes," he answered, shortly.

I think he got an idea from that vessel
to windward."

Very likely. I heartily wish the voyage
were over," he exclaimed, pettishly. "It's
the most uncomfortable berth I ever filled.
Neither as third, second, nor chief mate
have I ever before been thrown with a
skipper who eyes me when I speak to him
as if he would like to cut my throat."

"I confess I don't understand him,"
said I.

It's not good form for officers to discuss
their captain, I know," said he ; " but when
you've got a skipper like Captain Flanders
to deal with, what can a fellow do but
cruise round and round him. He never
consults me ; he never seems to like me to
speak to him. Does he think I don't know
my work ? Would he like to make out that
it's three turns round the long-boat and a
pull at the scuttle-butt with me ? If he
lets the men get that notion into their
heads, I may as well go below for the rest
of the voyage."

"I don't believe he's responsible for all
he does," I answered. " What do you
think of his telling Miss Maitland that a
spirit warned him a storm was coming ? "

Ay, ay, he's a plaguey good hand at
spirits : but take care that he isn't comforting
us with his damned ghosts. Long-shore
dodges to get officers into a hole are
pretty common nowadays, I've heard.
You'll never make me think he believes in
what he says."

I could not help smiling at this notion ;
at the same time I felt sorry for my little
shipmate. There was no doubt he had good
reason to dislike the skipper, who made a
point of treating him with great rudeness,
never addressing him at meal-times, nor
conversing with him on deck, and barely
giving him civil words when spoken to by
him; but much of his resentment sprung
from disappointment. I believe he had
counted upon getting command of the
Waldershare this voyage, and it was undoubtedly
mortifying to a man who had
been in the service of the owners of the
ship for some years, to find a stranger
chosen out of another employ and put over
him. However, he had let fall one hint
that I made up my mind should profit me,
when he said it was bad form for officers
to discuss their skipper. We had opened
ourselves too much as it was, and apart
from all instinct of discipline and respect,
I considered that I might criticize Captain
Flanders once too often, and so get professionally
ruined ; for, whether mad or not,
he was captain, and could do what he liked

aboard his own ship — break me and send
me forward to work with the men, or clap
me in irons in a cabin under lock and key.

It was now eight bells, and my watch
on deck. There had been no more lightning,
but it was very dark, with a most
curious red haze in the north, so deceptive
that one only saw it fitfully and by looking
at the sky to the east and west of
it. There came a few languid stars into
the south, but sea and sky were as black
as ink astern ; not a breath of air, the swell
greatly fallen, and the sea alongside like
ink, with a few tremulous green fires shooting
out into it when the vessel rolled.

All this time Nelly had remained on deck.
The captain being away, I went over to
her, not having had a chance to speak to
her before.

I see we are going to have a storm,
Will. How fearfully dark it is ! Did you
see that great blaze of lightning about
half an hour ago ? The whole sky seemed
to open."

Well, you are not frightened? "

11 A little — when it lightened; but I was

more frightened to see you go up the rigging.
I held my breath, and my eyes swam in
watching you."

If a sailor can't climb he's of no use,
Nelly. But see how heavily the dew falls.
Look at the lamplight glistening on the
arm of this chair. It is too damp for you
to remain on deck. Besides, the cuddy is
more cheerful than this sky and sea. Don't
let either lightning, thunder, or wind
frighten you. Things which are really
dangerous make very little noise as a
rule."

She rose; it was very dark. I pressed
her to my heart and kissed her ; it was the
first kiss between us for a long while. She
was very reluctant to leave me, but I led
her to the companion, and pressing my hand,
she went below.

I crossed over to see how the ship's head
lay; and as I raised my eyes from the
compass card the whole sky was torn from
horizon to horizon by a terrific flash of
lightning. It was as desperate a flash as
ever I remember seeing. It was like a
mighty lance of blue flame hurled sheer

across the sky, vanishing into the eastern
heaven ; and the whole surface of the ocean
glanced in the horrid glare like a spectral
world issuing out of chaos. I closed my
eyes, but so frightfully vivid had been the
blaze, that when I opened them the darkness
was intense. I was temporarily blinded ;
I could not even see the card that lay illuminated
by the binnacle lamp. There was
a solemn, hollow, distant peal of thunder ;
I was surprised by the smallness of it in
comparison with the magnitude of the flash.
"I never see the like of that before, sir,"
exclaimed the man who stood at the wheel,
steadying the spokes with his elbow whilst
he rubbed his eyes. All was as still as the
grave again ; not a sound could be heard
but the sobbing gurgle of the water washing
under the counter, with the flap of the invisible
canvas aloft. Captain Flanders came
up to where I stood.

"I don't like the look of this at all, ,,
said he, in a voice the deep notes of which
were amazingly in keeping with the profound
darkness. " Better get the mizzen-topsail
furled whilst it's calm."

I gave the necessary orders in a low voice,
and the watch came aft, groping their way,
and after a bit clewed the sail up, but
without singing, and went aloft. Presently
they came down, all as quiet as possible,
and went forward, and the decks were silent
again. The galley was locked for the night,
and the only light forward, was the haze
thrown by the light in the boatswain's
berth ; aft, the cuddy lamps glimmered on
the skylights, and the binnacle diffused a
little circle of soft radiance, that fell in a
delicate haze upon the wheel and the motionless
figure standing at it. The skipper
walked to and fro quietly; I went forward
to the break of the poop and hung
over the side, watching the strange shapes
of green and blue fire that flickered and
coiled through the water, sometimes resembling
serpents chasing invisible prey,
sometimes twisting into forms like trees.
All overhead was a ponderous darkness full
of dreadful silence ; the stars in the east
had vanished, and it was now impossible to
tell the point in the sky which the front
line of the great cloud-bank had reached.

Presently a few large drops of rain fell;
they struck the deck heavily and were as
hot as blood upon the hand ; they ceased,
but I thought I might as well take the hint
they gave, and slipped into my cabin as
fast as my legs would carry me for my
oilskins.

Phew ! the cabin was stifling hot and the
smell of the oilskins sickening. There was
no one in the cuddy, and I hoped Nelly had
gone to bed. Let her sleep now while she
could; for the barometer — a wiser spirit
than the captain's familiar, was prophesying
weather that would waken the sleepers
presently.

Just as my foot touched the poop-ladder,
there was another flash of lightning, as
blinding as the one I have just described,
and it fell from right overhead ; the air-was
filled with a strong sulphureous smell ; the
electric fluid ran down the ties, chain sheets,
and along the jackstays, and they looked
as though they were on fire ; some one cried
out, but in what part of the ship I could
not tell. I believed that we had been
struck, and bounded on to the poop, and

vol. i. o

then came a crash of thunder, after an interval
of not more than three seconds,
worthy of the terrific blaze that had preceded
it. I thought it would never cease ;
it went booming along the glassy sea as
though it were some enduring sound rushing
from horizon to horizon. The captain was
standing at the head of the port poop-ladder,
and as I came up he shouted out, " Forward
there ! is any one hurt ? ' '

There was a few moments *' silence, and
a man answered, " There's no one hurt here,
sir."

This is frightful," said he, coming over
to where I stood, and in the reflection of
the cuddy lamplight I saw him remove his
hat and wipe his forehead. " Did you hear
a cry just now? "

"Yes, sir."

11 Oh, you did! " he exclaimed in a tone
of relief. " I was afraid I might have been
the only one who heard it."

Some one sung out in fright, I suppose,
sir."

No doubt. I wish something would
happen to change this dreadful darkness

and silence. How's her head ? " he called
out.

No answer came from the wheel.

"Wheel there, I say!" he shouted;
how's her head now ? "

Has he fallen asleep ? " I exclaimed,
and went aft. " Why don't you answer?"
I said, addressing the man, who stood erect,
holding on to the spokes with both hands.
Didn't you hear the captain hail you ? "

Finding him still silent, I lost my patience,
though I wondered that any man should
sleep in that erect posture, and I shook him
by the arm. He retained his grip of the
wheel, but neither moved nor spoke.

"Why, what's the matter with him?"
exclaimed the captain, who had followed
me. " Pull the lamp out of the binnacle
and look at his face."

The lamp thus exposed cast a brilliant
light, and I threw it full upon the man's
face.

Merciful God ! " I cried.

The lips of the man were drawn tight
back into a dreadful smile, laying bare his
gums and teeth ; his eyeballs were turned

right up into his head, and nothing was
visible but the whites of them.

"The last flash has killed him! " I exclaimed,
recoiling with a shudder from the
terrible sight, and I replaced the lamp in
the binnacle.

Scarcely had I done this when down came
the rain. It fell just as if the whole ocean
had come aboard. It plumped upon us ina
sheet, beating me on to my knees with
the weight of it, and in an instant the poop
was awash, and I could hear the torrent
sluicing through the scupper holes, whilst
the sea lay white and hissing around. The
captain appeared helpless — he neither moved
nor spoke. The suddenness of this discovery
had made him quite vacant.

With a dead man at the wheel, whose grip
of the spokes was not to be shaken off, the
ship was doomed if the gale burst suddenly
upon us. I sprang forward and at the top of
my voice roared out, "Lay aft, here, men!
aft here for your lives ! " and then ran back
again to the wheel, where, seizing hold of the
dead man's fingers, I succeeded by sheer
force in opening them, whereupon the body

fell heavily on to the deck. It was wrestling
with a corpse ; bnt w r with a corpse in which
one would have said the English spirit of
faithful duty lingered even after the spirit
had fled. Never shall I forget the touch of
those wiry, dead fingers, the grip as tough
as steel, the snap of the bones as I tore
open the fingers, and the body falling with
a thud that sounded above the thunder of
the rain upon the hollow deck.

The whole of the starboard watch came
splashing aft, dashing the water from the
deck with their feet as they ran.

Lanyon has been struck dead by the
lightning," I sang out. " Lay hold of the
wheel, one of you, and the rest carry his
body forward and lay him in the foretold,
with a tarpaulin over him."

They stood wondering and alarmed a
moment, then one of them laid hold of the
wheel, and others picked up the body and
away they went, whilst the rain fell in a
broad sheet and the sea all about us sobbed
under it. I saw by the binnacle light that
the captain was ploughed through with the
rain : his hat was sheer pulp, and fallen all

on one side, and his feet squelched in his
boots as he moved.

All on a sudden the rain ceased, just as
you might stop a shower-bath. A little air
came blowing from the south.

We're aback, sir ! " I shouted.

"Hard aport ! " he exclaimed. "Bound
with the after-yards."

But before I could sing out, the light air
died and the main-topsail flapped heavily.

"Hold on all, is it, sir?"

"Ay, but we shall have it in a minute.
Look astern ! "

I did so, and beheld once more the faint
reddish light in the sky, which gave me
almost a shock to behold, for the like of it
I had never witnessed amid such a darkness
as now surrounded us. But under this sky
was the sight the captain had bid me look
at ; it was a long luminous line of a colour,
or character rather, it would be useless forme
to attempt to express ; but what it most
resembled was a nebulous haze, or the tail
of a comet, the hue extremely ghastly, as
though it were a wall of spume illuminated
by blue-light, or a long high reach ot foam

filled with shooting phosphorescent fires.
It broadened and came rushing down upon
us with incredible swiftness. Some moments
before it reached us I heard the roar of it
sounding through the silence about us,
which nothing on this side disturbed but
the flapping of our canvas.

"Hands by the topsail sheets ! " shouted
the skipper, his voice rising almost into a
shriek ; but before the words were well out
of his mouth, the sea was all in foam on
either side of us, and the furious blast was
yelling in our ears. I toppled down before
it for all the world as if I had been skating
and my feet had sliced away astern of me ;
and I suppose I was blown a dozen feet
along the slippery deck before I brought
myself up. The white water filled the air
with a kind of light, and I saw the skipper
flat on his buttocks. He did not attempt
to rise, but howled out, " Another hand aft
to the wheel!" and I delivered the command,
though jammed by the wind so hard
against the brass rail of the poop that I
could scarcely muster breath enough to
echo him. The force of the wind was

beyond all reach of words. I saw one of
the men come aft in response to the order,
and all was well with him until he got to
the top of the poop-ladder ; then the gale
took him, and blew him head over heels
on to the quarter-deck again, where he
alighted with a splash, for that deck was
still afloat with the rain. However, he was
not hurt, but tried again, and reached the
poop flat on his breast, and in this manner
crawled aft like a worm.

Looking astern it was not possible to
breathe. The wind blew one flat. It hit
me in the stomach like a strong fist and
stopped there, and there was no relief until
the back was turned to it. Its bellowing
was as if a thousand wild bulls were being
swept through the air and roaring in rage
as they went ; and this was a sound that
rose high above, and had no relation to the
sweeping shrieks in the rigging and among
the spars. The sky was full of this tremendous
bellowing, and it was one of the
most terrifying incidents of the storm. No
such sound is ever heard ashore : what one
hears there is the groaning of wind in

the chimney-pots and amidst trees, or its
plaintive cries as it rushes down the mountain
sides and howls along the valley ; but
all these various sounds have no resemblance
to the roaring noise that such a wind as I
am describing makes at sea. The ocean
was a complete surface of foam ; under the
black sky it lay like a land covered with
snow ; the hurl of the gale had flattened the
very swell, and along the hissing surface
rushed the Walder share with half her bowsprit
underwater, as though the wind would
drive her bow under, but as steady as a
sleigh speeding along a level Canadian
tract.

Could this be a cyclone ? It had all the
taste and fury of one. Neither the captain
nor the chief mate had expected the gale
for twelve hours, yet here it was full on us
and the first watch not over. I tried to crawl
aft to see how her head lay, but though I
was on my hands and feet it took me all
five minutes to get the length of the poop ;
for the wind was like the hands of a giant
on my shoulders, forcing me down and back,
and the foam was flying over the stern of

the ship as thick as a fog, and laced my face
as though some one were slashing me with
a whip.

The ship's head was due south ; the skipper
still squatted under the lee of the grating
abaft the wheel, and I had to get hold of
the grating on the port side to prevent
myself from being blown forward. Indeed,
right aft where I now was the full fury of
the wind was felt ; it seemed strong enough
to blow the ship out of water, and yet,
whatever the wind's speed might have been,
the ship was rushing forward at not less
than fourteen knots ; and so I leave you to
guess what the force of the gale was at this
time when I say that, though our own pace
was taking fourteen knots out of its volume,
its power was great enough to lift a man off
his legs and blow him forward as though he
were a piece of paper.

If this were a circular storm — and there
was no reason to doubt it was — there were
two ways of dealing with it ; one was by
avoiding the dangerous centre, and the
other by heaving to on the right tack and
letting the wind blow itself away. If the

rules laid down for this sort of gales were
correct, then the centre of the cyclone
should bear about E. ; and that this was a
cyclone was presently shown by the ship's
head gradually revolving as we ran, so that,
being dead before it, we were now steering
S. by E. half E. We were well within the
outer radius of it, and keeping our yards
square would sail us round and round in it
like a ship on the edge of a whirlpool.

The skipper got on to his feet and came
over to the compass ; he had been dismasted
of his hat, and his hair blew out in a straight
line. He thrust his head down to look at
the card, made an ineffectual attempt to
look astern, and then bawled, out, " We
must heave the ship to, sir. Call all
hands and get the foresail and fore-topsail
furled, and haul down the fore-topmast
staysail."

I let go the grating, and the wind ran me
forward like an arrow ; the sea was now
beginning to rise, and the heads of the
waves on either side blew sheer off and over
the bulwarks, and met in the air with
flashes ; they looked like darts of blue fire

streaming through the darkness. I went
forward shouting out the orders, and presently
the shriek of the boatswain's pipe
mingled with the bellowing overhead. I
stood on the forecastle while the men went
aloft. It took the whole strength of the
ship's company to furl each sail. The
canvas stood up above the yard like a stonewall,
but it must yield at last, and I heard
with a feeling of relief the chorus raised by
the men as they triced up the bunt of the
topsail. Whilst they were hauling down
the staysail I took a look aft, being well
under the lee of the foremast, that somewhat
broke the fury of the wind. Though
it was as black as ink overhead, not a cloud-break
visible, yet, as I have said, the boiling
water made a light in the air, and the outline
of the ship and her spars, as high as her
top-gallant yards, could be clearly made out.
To right and left of her, and sheer over her
stern, the water was flying like smoke, and
great lumps of foam as they fell on her deck
gleamed and winked like glow-worms.
The ship in the unearthly light looked
spectral, a wild, flying, and torn shape, her

narrow band of close-reefed topsail — the
only fragment of canvas showing — glimmering
overhead, and her dark outline plain
upon the pale spume. There was a storm
and thunder of foam under her bows, for
she was piling the water as high as her cat-heads,
and pitching heavily to the sea, that
was now waxing furious.

Lay aft here and man the port mainbraces
! " pealed the voice of the captain;
and we all tumbled aft, wrestling with the
wind as we went, and catching hold of
whatever came in our way to haul ourselves
along. The helm was put down as the
main yards were braced sharp up, and the
vessel came round, shipping one heavy sea
as she did so, which filled the decks with a
smother of froth, whilst it was up to the
men's knees in the lee scuppers. The fore
and mizzen yards were braced hard up
against the weather rigging, and the ship
was now hove to on the starboard tack,
plunging heavily over the seas, which came
rolling in small mountains down upon her,
and sometimes so burying herself to leeward
that the end of the fore-topmast 

boom now and again harpooned the
water.

Go below the port watch ! " was now
the cry, for there was nothing more to be
done.

CHAPTER VII.

hanson's burial,

We might have imagined that the gale had
reached its utmost fury almost as soon as it
fell upon us, but by midnight it was blowing
a dozen hurricanes in one, with a heavy
Atlantic sea running. It was no longer
pitch dark, though the sky looked all one
cloud, and there was no more lightning.
The fall of the barometer had been from
29-80 to 27-60, a total fall of 2-20 ! Shortly
after midnight there was a rise.

Meanwhile the Waldershare breasted the
sea nobly, considering that she was loaded
down to within a few inches of her chain-plate
bolts, and could we have lightened
her I believe that she would have danced
over the very spray in the air, and have
kept her decks dry through the gale. But

how can any ship that is loaded flush with
the manhood with hardware and metal rails
act well ? The seas poured over her before
she could rise to them ; forward she was
like a pier-head, so stiff and obstinate did
the dead weight in her make her ; and the
water swept over her forecastle in whole
seas, and ran up her sides in columns as
high as her main top, where the wind overmastered
them and blew them right across
the decks and a hundred fathoms beyond
in a veil of smoke.

I went below at midnight dead tired. I
stood a few moments under the break of the
poop to exchange a few words with Mr.
Thomas, for there was no chance of making
oneself heard anywhere else. He said hew
r as afraid that the cargo was straining the
ship severely, but that she was magnificently
built, with a wonderful deal of life in her,
and further, he believed that the gale would
soon blow itself out, for, from the sudden
rise in the barometer, he inferred that w r e
were only just inside the outermost line of
the storm-circle, and that our being hove to
would bring us out of it shortly.

I asked him if lie did not think the
captain had shown judgment in the manner
in which he had made ready for this storm,
and in which he had handled the ship since ?
He said, " Yes, he could not have done
more," and then went on to the poop.

A decanter of rum swung on one of the
trays, and I took a wine-glass and helped
myself to a dram before entering my cabin.
The motion of the ship was felt more in the
cuddy than on the poop. On deck the
excitement inspired by the bellowing of the
gale, the yelling of the rigging, the thunder
of the seas as they burst over the ship, took
one's thoughts away from her motion ; and
the violent uproar around was, so to speak,
independent of her pitching and rolling.
But in the cuddy it was different; here
every sound was caused by the motion, or
nearly so, and one's attention was directed
to it. The groaning and creaking of the
bulkheads, the shake and rattle of the cabin
doors, the long-drawn grating of the straining
timbers, coupled with the hollow thunder
of the seas as they struck the ship outside
or fell in tons' weight on her decks, filled

VOL. i. p

the ear with an uproar that I am not
ashamed to confess even disturbed my own
seasoned mind with a subdued sense of dismay,
whilst the trays depending from the
upper deck swung to an angle of forty-five
degrees and sometimes more, and the planks
underfoot sliced away from one's toes as
though they meant to leave one floating in
the air.

With my back firmly planted against the
table, I swigged off my dram of rum, and
had just replaced the glass when the door
of the cabin occupied by the Spinosa
flew open, and the Spaniard whisked through
it as if fired from a cannon. He struck the
table heavily, and vanished under it. I
was afraid that he had seriously hurt himself,
for it was evident that he had only
intended to open the door with the intention
of seeing if anybody was about, and
that he had been thrown headlong by the
lurch of the ship. He rolled under the
table against my legs. I lifted him up
groaning, and set him against Mr. Black's
door, where I " fixed " him by grasping his
shoulders with both hands, otherwise he

would have fallen again. He was in his
dressing-gown, but his head and feet were
bare.

I hope you are not hurt," said I. " Why
have you left your cabin ? You are much
better in it."

He rolled his eyes about and made some
answer in Spanish, which of course I did
not understand.

Let me tell you," said I, shouting in his
ear, " that the ship is in no danger. A
heavy gale is blowing, but she is snug as
good seamanship can make her, and well
watched; and if that don't satisfy you,
Mister Espinosa, I'll be hanged if I know
what will. Here, let me put you into your
cabin again."

Just as I pronounced these words Mr.
Black turned the handle of his door; the
door opened inside. My whole weight was
against Espinosa in order to keep him in his
place, and his back was pressed against Mr.
Black's cabin door ; consequently, when the
door was opened, we both pitched into the
cabin, I on top of the Spaniard, who, to
save himself, caught hold of Mr. Black's

legs, and down lie came ; and there we all
three of us floundered, grabbing at one
another in such a manner as to prevent
ourselves from rising, whilst my streaming
oilskins soaked my fellow-stragglers through
and through.

"What the deil's this 99 roared Mi
Black, in a voice deep with fright. "Let
go of my leg, for God's sake ! Dom it !
the man's nipping me with a pair of
scissors ! "

This must have been Espinosa's fingernails,
for the truth was (I hope my blushes
will be excused) Mr. Black had nothing on
him but a night-shirt and a pocket-handkerchief
tied around his head, the ends meeting
under his chin. Here the ship lurched
heavily to windward, and away the three
of us rolled, then down again to leeward,
until she seemed almost on her beam ends,
and off we started afresh. Releasing myself
from Mr. Black's embraces — for he had got
his arm most lovingly and tenaciously coiled
around my neck — I staggered on to my feet,
and catching hold of the Spaniard's claws,
unshackled them from Mr. Black's lee:. No

sooner was the Scotchman erect than he
sprang into his hunk, with the hack of his
shirt hanging in two rags from his shoulders,
and hauling the sheet over him began to
parley with me from his pillow.

What is the meaning of this intrusion,
Mr. Lee?" he shouted. " What business
have you and that — that wretched foreigner
in my cabin, sir ? Here is my leg bleeding
like a pig with his cursed scratches!" and
he forked a stout peg out of bed, and pointed
to half a dozen long red lines along his
shin.

We were talking against, your cabin
door, and you opened it and we tumbled
in," I answered, like to suffocate with
laughter over this silly business. "I hope
you are not hurt by this unfortunate accident,
Mr. Espinosa ? "

Hurt ! " cried Mr. Black ; " I wish he
had broken his don't neck for tearing the
flesh off my bones ! Can't a passenger open
his door without a couple of boobies bursting
into his cabin and seeing him alive, eh ?
Answer me that for yourself', you Mester
Spaniard ! " And wrapped up as his head

was, lie glared on Mr. Espinosa like an infuriate
old witch.

What you call my neck, eh ? " suddenly
shrieked Espinosa, greatly to my surprise,
for I had thought him half-stunned. " Who
are you yours el ve, you been only rascal,
eh ? who are you yourselves — answer me
dat ! " and skipping up to Mr. Black, he
snapped his fingers under his nose in an
ecstasy of passion.

This was more than I could hear; so,
leaving the two passengers to settle their
own quarrel, I bolted out of the cabin, threw
off my boots and oilskins, and pitched myself
on to my mattress, where I lay laughing
until I fell asleep.

The gale proved but a short-lived one
after all, though, judging of its central force
by the taste we had of its outer limit, I
should imagine that had the ship been a
few leagues further to the eastward when
the storm burst upon her, she would have
foundered. That it was a rotatory storm
was proved by the sudden shifts of wind
veering from N. to E.N.E., but without any
regularity, blowing first great guns from

one point and then thundering down upon
the ship from another. When I went on
deck, at four o'clock in the morning, there
was a tremendous sea running, hut the gale
was fast hi owing itself out ; the clouds lay-in
fragments overhead and sailed slowly
across the sky, while among them the stars
flashed with a sharp, tremulous glittering,
showing that above the lower stratum of
cloud was a range of high, small, frost-white
cloud that was passing away to the westwards,
right athwart the path of the gale.

The sickly dawn broke upon a dismal
scene. The ship had as strained and battered
a look as if she had been tumbling about
in a gale of wind for a month ; the foresail
and fore-topsail had been furled anyhow in
the dark, and lay on the yards in lumps of
canvas, kept in their places by the hastily
passed gaskets ; all the running rigging was
blowing away to leeward in semicircles ;
the main-deck was like a pond, and with
every roll of the ship the water rushed from
side to side, dashing against the bulwarks
and smothering everything in foam ; the
top-gallant forecastle was all awash, the

green water toppling on to it and pouring
in cascades on to the deck below ; no sail
being set forward, the ship all that way
looked naked, and her long bowsprit and
jibbooms forking out, danced their black
outline up and dow T n the sky.

By six o'clock the gale, blowing right from
the east, had so far decreased that I was
able to set the close-reefed fore-topsail and
storm trysail; this extra canvas steadied
her amazingly, but though she was watching
somewhat now, I kept her close to meet the
sea, albeit had we headed our course we
should have carried the gale on her port
quarter.

By seven o'clock it was blowing a moderate
gale and the sea had greatly fallen ; so we
squared away the yards and made sail, and
presently the ship was swirling through it
with a top-gallant sail set over a single-reefed
topsail, heaping the water ahead of her as
high as the hawser-holes, whilst the foam
poured over the spritsail yard.

The watch now turned to to clear up the
decks and wash down. This w r as a job the
ship wanted badly, for nothing makes a

greater mess aboard a vessel than a gale of
wind. By breakfast-time the ship was" clean
and taut fore and aft, her decks drying fast
in the sun, the hens cackling cheerfully in
their coops, the pigs grunting under the
long-boat, the reefs shaken out, the main-royal
set, the sea fast going down, and a
piebald sky with a lacing of glorious blue
over the masthead.

After breakfast I stood under the poop-break
smoking a pipe ; presently Mr. Black
came on to the quarter-deck, looking very
yellow, and asked me how I did after last
night's rough work. I thought this mighty
civil after the disturbance in his cabin — indeed,
I had every moment been expecting a
summons from the captain, to whom I made
sure the Scotchman would complain. He
then said he thought an apology due to me
for the rude manner in which he had spoken
last night ; he had found out from Espinosa's
explanation that the fault was not mine ; he
had opened the door, having heard my voice
and wishing to ask some questions about the
storm, and we had tumbled in ; but he had
made peace with Espinosa, though he was

still of opinion that the Spaniard had clawed
him out of malice. However, he had clapped
some plaster on his leg and lost the pain,
and as he believed it was an accident not
likely to happen again, he wanted no fuss
made over it. So there was an end of the
matter, and I was saved the trouble of explaining
to the captain. Mr. Black did not
tell me how Espinosa and he had made up
their quarrel. I had run out when the
Spaniard had snapped his fingers under Mr.
Black's nose, and could only suppose that
the insult would have led to a pummelling
match. A set-to may, indeed, have taken
place ; though it is more likely they begged
each other's pardon when my back was
turned, for what with the gale and the
groaning of the ship, and being drenched
with my oilskins, and rolled upon the deck,
they were both nearly frightened out of their
wits.

I was still lingering in the sheltered part
of the deck I had chosen, my pipe in my
mouth, very often glancing into the cuddy,
on the look-out for Nelly, who had not left
her cabin, when I saw Mr. Thomas go forward.

The watch had just been setting the
fore-topmast studding-sail, and the men who
had been rigging out the boom were coming-leisurely
down the rigging. It was at this
moment that I all on a sudden remembered
the death of the seaman last night by lightning,
a circumstance of which the gale
appeared to have swept the memory clean
out of my head, so inveterate is the sailor's
heedlessness, and his knack of forgetting in
five minutes events which would score the
mind of the landsman with life-long impressions.


I instinctively guessed the chief mate's
errand, and I was quite right, for as he came
back he stopped to tell me " that poor devil
Lanyon is to be buried at two bells " (meaning
nine o'clock). I looked at my watch,
and found it wanted only twenty minutes
of that time. "It is the captain's fancy,
though I think he might as well have waited
until eight bells, when all hands will be on
deck; " and so saying, he passed on.

A funeral is always a solemn thing at sea.
It is not that sailors think so much of the
death of a messmate, as that a familiar face

is missing ; there will be one voice the less
to join in the chorus at the halliards ;
his gruff voice and laugh will be heard no
more ; his pipe lies broken on the deck, and
is extinguished ; his bunk is empty, though
there is his name carved on the massive
beam over it. Bill is gone, and the watch
he belonged to is weaker by a hand. Though
Lanyon had been in my watch I had never
noticed anything particular in him ; he was
a fair average seaman and no more ; but I
believe he was popular in the forecastle as
being a good-tempered man, always ready to
oblige a shipmate with a friendly draw of
his pipe, or a loan of any of the old rags
of breeches and shirts which make up poor
mercantile Jack's wardrobe, and his death
had impressed the men, though the moment
he was overboard he would be forgotten.

At nine o'clock the boatswain tuned up
his pipe, the captain came down on the
quarter-deck, the chief mate remained on
the poop to look after the ship, none of the
passengers were present, so Lanyon's funeral
was altogether among sailors. They had
laid the body, sewn up in canvas — for he

had had no hammock — on one of the fore-hatch
gratings, and covered it over with the
big ensign ; four of the dead man's watch-mates
brought him along, and the rest of
the ship's company came after; the upper
part of the lee gangway was unshipped and
the foot of the grating set upon it, and a
couple of hands stood by to haul off the
ensign and tip up the body into the sea
when the signal was given. All hands stood
bare-headed, and the scene was a solemn
one. I felt the pathos of the many rough
human countenances gathered around, some
looking down, some with their eyes fixed on
the grating, some with a sort of wonder on
them such as children's faces wear when
anything unusual is going forward. Joe, the
negro seaman, stood with a mournful grin
upon his flat, honest black face, and the
Southron hung grim and sulky in the rear ;
they were Catholics, and did not like being
brought into this ceremony.

My attention, however, was speedily
diverted from the crew to the skipper. He
seemed extraordinarily agitated, and instead
of a Prayer-book held a roll of paper, that

trembled in his grasp as lie ran his eyes over
the men. It is always customary aboard
English ships to bury the dead at sea with
the office as given in the Church Service,
but I saw that Captain Flanders was going
to have a service of his own, and I exchanged
glances with little Thomas, who stood at the
poop-rail without his hat, looking down,
with his eyebrows rounded like the new
moon. All the men were silent ; nothing
could be heard but the wobbling wash of
the water alongside, and the creak and
strain up aloft as the vessel rolled. The
sun shone bright, and the sails soared into a
heaven that was fast growing a cloudless
blue from horizon to horizon.

Men," exclaimed the captain in his
deep bass, which his excitement made as
vibratory as a harp-string, " I am aw 7 are
that when a man dies at sea it is customary
to bury him according to the rites of the
religion in which the captain and crew
believe. But I do not believe in the
Church of England. I am a primitive
Christian. I believe, and all you who hear
me should likewise believe, that prayer is

only acceptable when offered in the edifice
constructed by the Almighty, whose roof,"
he cried, pointing upwards with a wild,
dramatic gesture, " is yonder blue, and
whose floor is the green of the fields and
the billows of the ocean. I say, men, that
the primitive Christian, whose cathedral is
the universal world, wants neither archbishop,
bishop, priest, monk, curate, nor
clerk to pray with him or for him ! " By
this time his excitement was so great, that
his eyes glowed in his head like a cat's in
the dark ; he dashed his arm about, striking
the paper in his hand such repeated
blows, that I conceived he would presently
demolish it. I saw the men staring round
at one another, evidently a great deal
puzzled to know what all this meant,
though I believe most of them thought it
was all ship-shape, and a regular part of
the usual ceremony.

Instead, therefore," he continued,
almost shouting, " of reading a service
opposed to the examples of those forefathers
of yours and mine, men, whose
memory is more refreshing to the Christian

heart than is the fountain of the desert to
the tongue of the parched Arab, I intend,"
he cried, flourishing his manuscript, " to
read you an essay upon spirits, in which I
shall invite you not to mourn for our dead
shipmate, but to know and feel with me
that even as we stand here looking upon
the flag that covers his clay, his spirit —
himself, indeed ! — not an object that wo
can touch, but an object we may, by prayer
hear and behold, is among us — there, or
there, or there — ay, or there ! for there
he stands, erect among you, visible to me.
My God ! how visible ! "

With his long forefinger projected, his
head thrown back, his eyes glowing, the sun
reflected in the tight polished skin of his
long, narrow forehead, he pointed plump at
the negro.

Joe, who had been listening to this extraordinary
harangue, with his head gradually
falling back and his mouth slowly opening
wider and wider, terrified by the concluding-shout
of the skipper, and by all hands turning
to look at him, and either believing that
he himself had become a spirit, or that

Lanyon's ghost was just behind, uttered
a peculiar yell, and jumped with all his
strength sideways, and striking a lightly
built Dane of the name of Andersen full
in the stomach, tumbled him clean over,
and they both rolled away to the foot of
the mainmast. This accident, which under
any other circumstance would have produced
a general laugh, and probably some
horse-play, merely served to increase the
alarm of the sailors, who had been rendered
nervous enough already by the manner in
which the captain had pointed indiscriminately
among them, and they began
to huddle together, occasionally glancing
over their shoulders whilst they watched
the face of the skipper, whose fluency had
not been checked an instant by the capital
of the negro.

He was now growing incoherent, talking
the wildest stuff, and flinging about like a
Shaker. The more incomprehensible he
grew, the more emphatic he became, and
I was beginning to wonder how long he
was going to keep us listening to his
nonsense, when he pulled open the manu-vol.

I. Q

script, and elevating his hand, began to
read.

The lecture lasted half an hour. I should
be sorry to give even what my memory preserves
of it. It was crammed full of quotations
from all sorts of writers, and it was
all about ghosts and spirits, and what they
had said and how they had appeared,
and the use of them as tests of primitive
Christianity. Long before it was over the
men had grown impatient, and were shuffling
about with their feet as if they were
listening to a long sermon in church. It
was plain that not one of them understood
a word of it, any more than the captain
himself did, in my opinion. Before a third
of it had been read, little Thomas, with a
face of disgust, slued on his heel and walked
away aft, and I saw the captain lift his
eyes and notice the mate's action.

At last he came to an eut, pocketed the
manuscript, and exclaimed, in a deep voice,
Let him depart in peace." This was his
signal for tilting the grating, but the men
who held it did not understand him, and
looked at me, and I had to make a sign ;

on this they hove up the end of the grating,
whilst one of them snatched off the ensign,
and the body fell. The captain went into
the cuddy.

That'll do, men," said I. " Carry that
grating forward, roll up the ensign, and stow
it away in the flag-locker."

Arid so terminated poor Lanyon's funeral.

Chapter VIII.

I was not much surprised that the men
took but little notice of Captain Flanders'
method of conducting a funeral service. It
was a thing that had nothing to do with
the ship's discipline ; they would hardly
guess that he was not in his right mind
until he had acted like a madman in matters
whose right ordering they understood. Had
he called all hands to close-reef the topsails
with a pleasant breeze astern, or
attempted to heave the ship to in a gale
of wind under a flying jib, the men would
have believed him mad ; but when it came
to things out of their reckoning like a
funeral service, they could not swear that
he was not orthodox in all he did, and as
all the education aboard was aft, they were

bound to think that what came from aft
was right. The truth is, merchant sailors
are the most ignorant body of men in the
world. I say this with reluctance and
shame, but it is my experience. They are
mending a little, though a very little now,
I believe, but a few years ago there was
scarcely a ship's company afloat of whom
more than two or three could read. Jack
is used as a slave, is utterly neglected,
badly fed, clothed, and lodged, and leads
and lives the life of an animal. There is
not a nation of savages known to this
country but has more money expended on
its souls and brains than sailors.

The boatswain of the Waldersliare was an
intelligent seaman, far above the average,
yet, finding me forward of the galley that
afternoon watching some job, the nature of
which I forget, he came up to me and said,
"I beg pardon, sir, but me and Chips
have been having an argument over Lane
funeral, and perhaps you'll settle it.
Chips he says that there isn't but one
service, and that's wrote down, and all that
you've got to do when you bury a man is

to read it out. He says that service wasn't
the one the skipper read : what it was that
he read, Chips he says he don't know ; but
he argues it wasn't regular. Now, what I
says is this," said he, laying a big, hairy
fist in the hollow of a palm as hard and
shiny as the sole of an old boot, " that
there isn't no regular service at all. When
a shipmate dies, you may read a prayer over
him or deliver a speech. I say it's just a
matter of fancy. I was in a Liverpool brig,
bound to Halifax, Nova Scotia, when two
men died in a week. All that the skipper
said when the first body was brought to the
gangway was this : 'Men,' he says, ' Jim's
cable has parted, and he's gone. There
lies his body, but where the rest of him is,
mates,' he says, ' you must turn to and read
the Bible to find out.' This was all he said.
Two days afterwards, t'other man dies, and
Ms body was brought aft, and all that the
skipper says was, ' Men, this here corpus
was Tom Long's. You remember what I
told you about Jim ? well, I says the same
thing of Tom.' Chips says that was all
wrong; but what I says is, there isn't no

regular service, but that you can say just
what you please over a dead shipmate, per-winding,
of course, you're respectful, and
don't use no bad language."

I gave him my notion of the matter, but
at the same time put it in such a way as
to make him believe it was merely a question
for a man's own judgment, and that
the skipper had done what no doubt he
believed to be the correct thing. Indeed,
I was extremely anxious to keep all suspicion
of the captain's sanity out of the
forecastle. If once the men should take
it into their heads to believe him mad,
there was no foretelling the trouble that
might come upon the ship.

eye had now r fine weather again ; the
afternoon was cloudless, with a soft cool
wind blowing from the east. When I
looked around upon the blue sea, with its
surface like shot silk, and at the stately
heights of white canvas silently doing their
work, and held as steady by the breeze as
though they had been carved out of marble,
and listened to the hum of the froth at the
stem, falling upon the ear like the note of

a song, I found it difficult to realize the
furious gale of the preceding night, the
screaming of the* hurricane, the main-deck
full of water, the horrible straining and
groaning of the tossed and driven ship.
There was still a long swell following us
astern, but it was perceptible only so far
as it gave a new kind of grace to the
motion of the ship, heaving her forward
with stately sweeps, then leaving her to
sink with a bow, as though she paused in
her running to drop a curtsy out of very
wantonness.

I had had a long chat with Nelly, who remained
on deck when the other passengers
and the captain went below to lunch, and
told her all about the gale, and the death
of Lanyon, and the captain's curious notion
of a burial service. Then we talked of
Burmarsh and the Johnson, how much
she would have to tell Phoebe when she
got home again, and we planned what she
should do when we arrived at Callao. She
was for remaining on board the ship, but I
considered that it would be best for her to
board with some English family, if such could

be found, whilst the ship remained in port ;
she would have more privileges in that
way, and companions to show her about
the place. However, we did not dwell
much upon this, for Callao was a long
way off yet, and we had a good nine or
ten weeks to settle our plans in. Indeed,
to speak the truth, I had as good as made
up my mind to marry her at Callao ; she
had gone out with me as a sweetheart,
but she should return my wife, and no
one aboard need know anything about it,
unless it were Mr. Thomas, whom I could
trust. But, as I have said, these were
early times, and I did not so much as
breathe my idea to her.

I had left her to go aft to look at the
compass, when I was hailed by a man in
the mizzen-topmast cross-trees, who was at
work on some chafing gear up there.

"Hilloo! " I answered.

There's something black right away
out to windward yonder," he cried ; " about
four points on the starboard bow."

"What does it look like ? "

Why, it's only a speck, sir, and I can't

say ; and there's no telling how far off
it is."

"Hold on!" I called; "I'll bring the
glass aloft."

I jumped into the mizzen-rigging and
gained the top.

Aloft there!" said I, looking up atman
who was overhead; "where away is
your speck ? "

He pointed with his finger, and looking
in that direction, I clearly perceived a
small black spot, apparently close under
the horizon, that vanished and reappeared
as the swell rose and sank between us and
it. I had great difficulty in fixing it with
the glass, but all on a sudden it leapt into
the circle of the lens, and before it could
vanish again behind the tall blue swell, I
very plainly saw that it was a ship's boat,
painted black, and without a mast. I kept
the glass steadied to the point at which I
had directed it, and in a few moments
the boat again appeared. She was a long-distance
off, and the man who had first
seen her must have had a very powerful
sight.

It's a ship's boat," I called out to him,
but I don't see anybody in her."

I had another long look, and as the boat
rose high on the swell, which threw the
outline of her gunwale sharp against the
keen blue sky, I fancied I could discern
a black dot in her stern-sheets.

I gained the deck, and putting my head
into the skylight, called to the skipper, who
sat at lunch.

There's a ship's boat in sight, sir, and
I believe there's a man in her, but I won't
be sure."

How does she bear ? "

Broad on the starboard bow, sir."

He left the table and came on deck,
and called to me to hand him the glass ;
but I told him she was not visible from
the deck.

Let her go off a couple of points," he
exclaimed, motioning to the man at the
wheel, " and ease off the lee main-braces."

We held on in this way for about twenty
minutes, during which time I stood on the
hencoop keeping a bright look-out for the
object, which the shift of helm should bring

well forward of the starboard bow. Being
nearly dead before the wind, that was buta
light breeze, our progress was slow.
Suddenly a hand on the forecastle called
out, "There's a boat ahead of us, sir! —
there she is ! " and at the same moment
she rose clear to my eye on the summit
of the swell. The captain levelled the
glass, and took a long squint. She rose
and vanished several times whilst he looked.

"I see a man in her holding up an oar
with something white fluttering at the end
of it — see what you can make out," said
he, handing me the glass.

The boat swung steadily into the field
the moment my eye was at the glass, and
I saw 7 not one, but two human figures in the
boat ; one forward in the bow, and the other
amidships, holding erect an oar (as I believed),
to which was attached a pocket-handkerchief.


The sighting of an open boat at sea with
people in her is an extremely unusual occurrence.
The news spread through the
ship like wildfire, and the cook came running
out of the galley, the steward out of the

cuddy, and the watch below out of the
forecastle, to view an object that no sailor
can behold without a thrill. Even an empty
boat at sea, rolling here and there bottom
up, is a touching thing in the eye of a
sailor, as it almost invariably indicates a
disaster. He knows that she was once part
of a ship, and may be the only fragment
left of her ; and when you see her bottom
up, with the green water pouring along her
keel, and the sunshine flashing upon her
wet planking as she emerges for a moment,
to be overwhelmed again a few seconds
after, you cannot help imagining that shipwrecked
people must have been in her once,
and then you think of the terrible hours
of suspense, the dark nights coming down,
the hunger and thirst, the bitter, protracted
anguish that was ended you know not when,
nor after how long a time, though yonder
lies all that remains of the story, and it is
already growing green and brown under the
restless sea and the unpitying sun. But
the interest grows deep beyond expression
when the boat that a ship encounters lives,
and human beings are seen in her. You

seem at such a time to draw a long breath,
for you cannot guess what sight of horror
has been reserved for your eyes, and what
tales of suffering you may have to listen to.

I noticed that the nearer we drew to the
boat the more restless and disturbed in his
manner Captain Flanders became. He had
so far exhibited the same behaviour on
every occasion that had made a call upon
his feelings — when the French ship went
ashore on the Goodwin, when the cook
had run into the cuddy pursued by the men,
when Lanyon was struck dead at the wheel,
etc. He bade me give him the glass, but
his hand trembled so much he could not
use it, and returned it to me, telling me,
with a tremor in his voice, to see if
there were more than two men in the
boat, and particularly if there were any
women.

I again had a good look, for by this time
the boat was not more than a mile distant,
and her shape lay quite plain on the water,
though the swell was continually hiding
her; however, I could not make out more
than two men, one of whom was now

standing up in the bow, throwing his arms
up and down, whilst the other sat flourishing
the oar.

"He has dropped his oar now, sir!" I
exclaimed. " Ah, I see ! he has thrown it
over the stern and is trying to scull the
boat. That must mean they have only one
oar aboard."

Get the courses hauled up," said the
captain, " and see that a hand is stationed
with a line ready to heave it in the boat as
we bring her alongside."

I ran forward to get these orders executed.

Lower away your royal and top-gallant
yards and slacken off your jib-sheets," sung
out the skipper, in a voice the unmistakable
excitement of which made all hands stare
aft at him. This was done, and the W alder -
share, losing much of her way, floated
languidly towards the boat, that was now
within hailing distance.

"Look out for a line!" I shouted from
the forecastle, and the man who stood in
the bow waved his hand with a gesture
that made me see at once he was a sailor.

They seem none the worse for being

adrift," exclaimed the boatswain, who stood
near me. " Blowed if they could take it
easier if they was crossing from Gravesend
to Tilbury."

Steady ! " I shouted. " Port your helm
a little."

The wheel was put over.

"Stand by!" cried the man who held
the line, and the coil fell cleverly into the
boat, that in a minute sheered alongside and
lay wobbling under the starboard gangway.
There was a rush to the quarter-deck to
see the men come aboard; all discipline
was forgotten in such a moment as this.
The gangway was unshipped, and some steps
thrown over the side, and' the two men came
on deck.

The first man was the one who had stood
in the bow waving his arms. He was a
tall, thin, long-faced man, with a yellow
skin and a bunch of black hair under his
chin ; dressed in a blue alpaca coat and
blue serge trousers, and a soft felt white hat
with a very broad brim. From the very
crown of his hat to the square toes of his
long boots he was a Yankee, and when his

feet touched the deck, he took a cool, steady
stare around him just as he might have
done had he merely boarded us from his
own ship to make inquiries.

His companion was a short, thick, square-built
man, with long, immensely round arms,
at the end of each of which hung a fist fit
for a giant nine feet high. He was a half-caste,
as well as I could make out, though
his natural brown had been considerably
deepened by the sun ; he had small, fierce
black eyes, the African nose with the European
mouth, and he wore a short, bristly
moustache, that served to heighten the
white of a row of long sharp teeth that
glistened between his red lips. His jaws and
neck were those of a bull-dog. His dress
consisted of a pair of flowing duck trousers
and a striped cotton shirt, and around his
waist was a broad leather belt with nozzles
for the reception of a knife or a pistol, or
any other weapon he might deem it necessary
to carry about with him in the
exercise of his vocation. He looked as
complete a ruffian as ever went clothed inhuman
attire, and as he bounded over the

VOL. i. s

ship's side lie gazed around liirn with a
scowl.

May I ask if the capon of this vessel
is hereabouts?" exclaimed the first man,
with a strong nasal accent and speaking
with a drawl. He had been looking around
for some one resembling a shipmaster, and
small wonder that he had not discovered
Captain Flanders to be his man.

"I command this ship," answered the
skipper, " and I am glad to have been the
means of preserving you. Step aft into
the cuddy, where your wants shall be
attended to at once."

Capon, let me shake your hand." The
Yankee gripped the skipper's fingers. " I've
no smartness at speech-making, but you've
saved me and my mate here from a tarnation
ugly death, and though neither him
nor me has tasted a blessed drop of drink
nor a mosul of food since supper-time last
night, I'd choke sooner than smaller a
mouthful aboard this ship before I had
thanked you for my life." These were his
very words as I remember them, and he
then wrung the captain's hand violently

and brushed his eyes over with the back
of his long yellow claws. The half-caste
muttered some words of thanks, but what
he said I did not hear.

They were both following the captain
into the cuddy, when the Yankee stopped.

"What about that 'ere boat?" he exclaimed.
" Is she worth slinging aboard?
She was my port quarter-boat, and cost nigh
about one hundred dollars." The captain
shook his head. " Wal, then, let her go,"
said the Yankee, and they all three entered
the cuddy.

I overheard the crew, who hung about the
quarter-deck, discussing these unexpected
visitors.

"Bill, the black 'un's a rascal. No
sogerin' with him, mate."

"Ay, a down-east knuckle-duster. He'd
have his teeth in your throat if you didn't
hear his first orders ! "

He wants towing astern for a few days.
He'd be the better for a little cleaning".
mates."

His face beats my time ! A shark must
ha' been his mother."

One of you jump into the boat and cast
her adrift," I called out. " Hands aft to
the braces. Man the top-gallant halliards."
It was like a dream to see the boat,
that was just now ahead with men in her,
drop astern empty. She seemed almost
human in my eyes, as she rose and fell
in our long silvery wake, and I watched her
as I walked along the poop, until she
vanished out of sight. It is the immensity
of the ocean that gives the waifs one meets
upon it their pathetic interest. The scene
is so spacious, and the loneliness so great,
that one cannot behold even a broken spar
floating leagues out at sea without a kind of
compassion, as though it could not but feel
its desolateness.

Presently the captain came up the companion
on to the poop, followed by the two
rescued men. The Yankee had slung the
ship's glass over his shoulder, and around
the neck of the other was suspended a pair
of powerful binocular glasses, belonging to
Captain Flanders. They both looked the
better for the food and drink they had taken,
and as they all three came forward the

Yankee squinted round him with lively
curiosity, staring hard at Nelly, and contriving
an ungainly and ludicrously convulsed
bow as he passed her.

Now, Obed," said he, "you take the
fore-royal, and I'll perch myself on the main.
I guess the 'ripon's as clear as glass, and if
there's anything visible, you'll oblige me by
letting' me hear what quality jos voice the
Creator has blessed you with."

As he said this he clawed hold of the
main-rigging, and floundered up the ratlines,
the joints of his long bony shanks sticking
out against his trousers like knuckles, and
his feet protruding through the rigging like
outriggers slewed inboard. Meanwhile
Obed, as the Yankee called him, always
preserving his villainous scowl, and seeming
to have no eyes for what was about him,
went with a walk like a fisherman's trot-along
the main-deck, slung himself with one
hand into the fore-rigging, and jogged aloft
with a regular beat of the feet and patting
of the hands, as though he kept time to a
tune. The men who were at work about
the deck followed him and the Yankee with

their eyes, considerably puzzled that the
first thing a couple of mariners newly
rescued from the very jaws of death should
do was to masthead themselves.

On reaching the main-royal yard the
Yankee jammed himself between the backstay
and the mast, and in that posture
slowly swept the horizon with his glass.
Obed, on the. other hand, anxious to astonish
the weak nerves of the Britishers, stood on
the fore-royal yard, and crossing his right
leg over his left, whilst he leant with his
elbow on the truck — for our short royal-mast
heads barely showed three feet above the
yards when hoisted — applied the circulars
to his eyes, and surveyed the horizon
from that immense height with all the ease
of a young gentleman in a theatre-stall
studying a beauty in a distant box.

Whilst the two men went aloft, Captain
Flanders stood alongside of me watching
them, and suddenly exclaimed, " I hope
they'll see her ! I hope they'll see her ! I
have promised him all the assistance I can
render. The demons ! Never did I hear
of such inhuman conduct ! " His voice betrayed

great agitation, and he appeared to
talk to himself more than to me.

Presently, fixing his eyes on my face, he
exclaimed, " Those two men, Mr. Lee, are
the master and first mate of an American
barque, called the Jessie Jackson. The men
mutinied, and sent them adrift this morning
in the midst of a heavy sea — you remember
what the sea was at eight o'clock, sir ? —
with only one oar, and without a drop of
water or an ounce of bread. My blood boils
to think of such fiendish cruelty. They
have run away with the vessel, and Captain
Taber — that's he aloft on the main-royal yard
there — believes that it is their intention to
put her ashore somewhere to the eastwards
of the Amazon, as the vessel is bound to
Pernambuco, and they can find an excuse
for being in that neighbourhood."

I suppose the captain has gone aloft to
try to see if he can make her out anywhere,
sir?"

Yes, and if we overhaul her, I have promised
to chase her, if she don't lead me too
far out of my course."

This was as much as he condescended to

tell me, or rather, I think he was too much
agitated to sustain a conversation. He
walked as far as the port quarter-boat, and,
without addressing the ladies, stood looking
aloft, occasionally muttering to himself and
slightly motioning with his right hand. At
the masthead the Yankee and his mate
occasionally exchanged a call, but what they
said I could not hear, owing to the flapping
of the mainsail, for the wind had fallen very
light, and every roll of the ship sent the
heavy courses beating against the masts and
rigging.

Presently Captain Taber came down,
leaving Obed aloft. The half-caste had
now seated himself on the yard, and his legs
hung before the sail, whilst he occasionally
lifted the glasses to his eyes. The Yankee
joined Captain Flanders, and they had a
long talk. I confess I found nothing in
our skipper promising to chase the pirates —
running away with a ship, the reader must
know, is an act of piracy — providing they
did not haul him out of his own course ; it
was not more than one captain would do to
help another, and unless the barque carried

gins, and her men were well armed, there
was little doubt that our ship was strong-handed
enough to carry her easily, could
we lay her aboard. But it was not very
clear to me what would be done if we succeeded
in capturing her. As to the cause
of the mutiny, I did not need to hear much
of that after looking at the half-caste chief
mate. Kuffianly officers always do make
ruffianly crews, and if Obed was not the
greatest ruffian that ever walked a deck, I
was willing to own that I was blind of both
eyes.

Anyhow, the barque was not in sight. It
w r as now hard upon four o'clock ; the two
men had been sent adrift at eight ; we had
no doubt sighted them pretty nearly in
the spot where they had been sent adrift,
and consequently the Jessie Jackson had
eight hours' start of us. I thought this
was heavy odds against our overhauling
her, for if she only shifted her course a
couple of points, she would be out of sight
behind the horizon when we were abeam
of her, and we should pass without seeing
her ; that is, if we sailed better than she,

which was yet to be proved. I thought it
probable that she was the barque we had
sighted to windward on the previous evening,
when the sunset lay heavy upon the horizon,
and which the hands aloft at the time had
described as a globe of blood. If so, then she
must have run further to the southwards
by eight hours than we.

How the news got about, I don't know ;
but it was soon spread fore and aft that the
men we had rescued were the captain and
mate of an American vessel, the crew of
which had mutinied and run off with the
ship, after sending the skipper and first
officer adrift, and that the W alder share
was to chase them. All through the dog-watches
the hands talked together in groups
forward, peering over both bows and under
the jibs, and some going aloft to see if anything
like a sail was visible ahead. Such a
chase as Captain Flanders meditated was
altogether a novelty in the lives of these
merchant sailors, and filled them, as indeed
it filled me, with interest and excitement.
But nothing in all this adventure struck meas
more curious than the perfect coolness

with which the American captain accommodated
himself to the situation in which
he found himself placed. Rescued but a
short time ago from a fate of which, as a
sailor, he would perfectly appreciate the
lingering horror and suffering, he now paced
the poop of the W alder share with as much
self-possession and nonchalance as he could
have shown had he been put aboard to take
a new command.

All this time Obed remained aloft, as
mute and wooden as a figure-head.

I was talking to Mr. Thomas about the
chances of the chase, and he was condemning
Captain Flanders' resolution in
very unmeasured terms, saying that it was
a captain's duty to sail his ship to her
destination with all practicable speed, and
that it would be a bad look-out for ship-owners
and traders if masters of vessels were
at liberty to go out of their way and delay
their voyage to hunt after adventures of
this kind, when the Yankee came over tous,
Captain Flanders having left the deck.

"I presume, gentlemen," says he, thumbing
the fore part of his broad-brimmed hat

as though, he would lift it, "that I am
speaking to the mates of this here ship ? "

Mr. Thomas replied that that was so.

I beg, then," said he, "you'll excuse
the liberty if I ask one of you for a chew
of tobacco. I find your capon doesn't
smoke, and when my men cut me adrift
they forget to favour me with anything
that I could get a draw or a spit out of."

I had a piece of a stick of tobacco in my
pocket, which I gave him. He bit out a
mouthful, and said that with my leave he
would put the rest in his pocket.

Are you the chief officer ? " he inquired
of Mr. Thomas.

"I am."

The capon tells me you have sailed in
this ship before. I reckon you've got a
clipper here, sir. I was admiring her run
as she bore down to us. Baltimore never
turned out a superior article. I never saw
finer lines, though we've built some nautical
expresses in the States too, sir, even in my
my time. "What's her best pace, do you
guess ?"

With the wind right abeam and all

three royal on her, the log has given
sixteen : but then she was homeward
bound, had worked herself easy, and was
not down to the chain-plate bolts with iron
and steel."

How much have you got out of her this
voyage ? "

At the very best, twelve — that was with
a smooth sea."

That'll serve ! " exclaimed the Yankee,
going to the side to squirt the tobacco juice
out of his mouth : " the Jessie can't beat
that, or, if she can, I calculate the wind
that'll drive her twelve '11 drive you
thirteen."

That's very likely," said I.

I want to overhaul that vessel badly,"
he continued, in his strong nasal accent,
and speaking with a tiresome drawl, that-seemed
a tremendous piece of affectation
alongside the active fire in his eyes.
Every blessed dollar I own in the world
is in her. Half of her belongs to me, and
if those creatures put her ashore, which I
reckon is their lay, they'll strand me too,
gentlemen, and that's a fact."

Have you any notion what course they
mean to steer? " asked Mr. Thomas.

Wal, if Obed's ears are good for a
caution, I calculate they mean to sail
straight on. He heard enough to guess
what they mean to be at ; and if they don't
change their minds, they'll try for the
southward of the Guy-hand coast, somewhere
betwixt the mouth of the Amazon Ever
and Koque Cape. The second mate leads
the mutiny, and he has a pretty considerable
acquaintance with that coast, having'
been raised in Cayenne" (he pronounced it
Calm). "Wal, as I reckon, gentlemen,
they'll make your course until they catch
the trades, and if that be so," he exclaimed,
with a sudden slap of his thigh, "we'll
have 'em yet ! "

I asked what was the cause of the
mutiny.

He vouchsafed no further information
than by saying that it lay among four men,
and that the ringleader was the second
mate. The crew consisted of ten hands.
Three of the men were well-disposed, and
the mutineers, knowing this, had closed the

forecastle before going aft ; they then overpowered
the mate, made his feet fast, and
stowed him away in one of the quarter-boats.
The skipper, hearing Obed's shouts,
rushed on deck, where he was immediately
knocked down and sat upon by a couple
of the men, whilst the others lowered away
the boat, unhooked the falls, and brought
her alongside ; they then dragged the
skipper to the gangway, waited until a
sea lifted the boat, and then dropped him
into it, after which they let her go adrift,
put the helm over, filled and stood on,
leaving the boat tossing in a heavy sea.
The two men thus abandoned had only one
oar, which they lashed to the end of the
painter and hove overboard, and this kept
the boat's head to the sea, otherwise shew
T ould have capsized ; as it was, they had
to keep bailing for their lives with a 
tin which they found in the
stern-sheets ; but the wind moderated fast,
and the sea went down with it, and all that
remained for them to do was to keep a lookout
for any passing ship.

The Yankee told his story without the

least air of excitement, and with a slow,
long drawl. I asked if the men were
armed? He answered that the only firearm
aboard was his pistol, and added that
if our ship could only overhaul his vessel,
there would be no difficulty in regaining
her, as the mutineers were in a minority,
and half a dozen of the W alder share's crew,
headed by himself and Obed, would manage
the business.

Having said this, and squirting another
mouthful of tobacco juice overboard, he
went forward and hailed his mate from the
forecastle.

Do you see anything up there ? "

Nothing."

Come down, then."

There's a murdering face for you!"
said Mr. Thomas, indicating Obed, as the
two men came aft, inquisitively followed
by the eyes of the crew. " The very sight
of him is enough to breed a mutiny. See
how our men look at them and whisper !
If he's not hanged soon there'll be some
broken skulls going yet among the poor
devils he may lord it over."

They entered the cuddy, into which they
had been beckoned by the steward ; and
when the dinner was put upon the table,
they both took their places (as I saw through
the skylight, for my watch had come round
again), Obed right opposite to Nelly, who
eyed him with disgust and aversion, though
I never once saw him lift his eyes or look
around. Indeed, the man was out of his
element there, and would have enjoyed his
meal more in the forecastle, though I doubt
if the crew would have suffered him to come
among them, As to Captain Taber, his
drawling notes sounded incessantly. As
often as I looked down I saw him nodding,
with his glass to his lips, to one or the other
of the persons around him. It was impossible
not to feel respect for a man who could
endure with festive complacency such trouble
as had befallen our Yankee.

As the sun went down, the breeze
dropped; and by the time that the darkness
had closed round the ship, there was
not a breath of ah'. The sea was full of
stars, and it was like looking at the sky,
so perfectly were the small yellow orbs

vol. i. s

reflected. I lingered half-way up the poop-ladder,
with my elbows on the bulwark, to
smoke a pipe before I turned in. Eight aft,
Captain Taber was talking to Madam Spinosa,
and her foolish laugh was incessant ;
Mr. Black, Espinosa, and Nelly conversed
near the skylight ; the captain walked the
deserted side of the poop alone; and near
me stood Mr. Thomas and Obed, the latter
answering the chief mate's questions in a
thick voice, that appeared to proceed from
his stomach.

It seemed hard not to be alone with my
sweetheart on such a night; but she was
near me, and I knew she was well, and I
made this reflection satisfy me. The atmosphere
was sultry, but as the ship rose
and sank with the ebony swell (that filled
the eye with the illusion of the stars sweeping
through the sea as though the ocean
were full of shooting fires), the sails flapped
heavily, discharging at intervals a shower
of dew, and filling the decks with circling
draughts of sweet air. At times a meteor
would sail through the dark sky, leaving a
silvery trail as it went, and breaking and

vanishing in a cloud of luminous dust.
The phosphorescent blue fires swarmed,
kindling and fading fitfully, among the stars
reflected in the water ; and the flapping of
the sails against the masts, and the wash of
the water around the ship, and the metallic
clank of the tiller chains, with now and
again the creaking of a block overhead or
the straining of a timber, were sounds which
mingled pleasantly with the voices and the
laughter upon the deck.

It remained calm all through the first
and middle watches. Nature appeared to
have exhausted herself over the previous
night's job ; the very ocean swell had grown
fainter, and the great Atlantic was fast becoming
as breathless as an inland lake.
A cabin had been offered to the American
captain and his mate, but the only use they
had made of it was to trim themselves up
for dinner. They both slept on deck, and
kept watch and watch. When I relieved
Mr. Thomas at midnight, I found Captain
Taber routing out Obed, who lay on a hen-coop
over against the port quarter-boat with
his head on a coil of rope. The Yankee took

the mate's place, turning up his coat-collars
and hoisting his knee-caps almost into his
mouth, and appeared to fall asleep in a
moment. iVbout half a dozen times in the
four hours I think Obed must have gone
aloft as high, probably, as the fore-royal
yard, though as we lay with square yards I
could not follow him with my eye.

When he came down the first time I
asked him what he hoped to see ?

"Why, the Jessie Jackson" says he,
speaking with a negro's voice.

"But we've made no progress worth
mentioning since you've been aboard, and
your ship can't be any nearer now than
she was when we sighted your boat."

I hope my going' aloft ain't contrary to
the rules of this hooker ? " says he.

"Not a bit," I answered. "You may
stop aloft and take your meals aloft till
the Jessie Jackson heaves in sight, if you
please."

I want to be the first man to sight her,
and I should like to be the first man to
board her," said he, with a little tremble in
his thick speech, and the whites of his eyes
gleaming as he rolled them about.

You'd make the lee scuppers run red
if you could, wouldn't you, my beauty? " I
thought, as I left him and stood for sometime
alongside the man at the wheel.

The fellow excited in me more aversion
than I knew how to control. I felt a sort
of debasement in talking to him, and when
he presently pulled out a tobacco-pipe that
the steward had procured for him, and
lighted it, he looked like the very devil
himself, as the flame of the match illuminated
his dark face and glittered in his
gleaming eyes, and exposed the monkeyfied
protrusion of his lips as he wrapped them
round the pipe stem. However, he had not
yet clone with me, for presently he came to
where I stood, and peered over the stern to
look about him for a caspar. He sucked
his pipe hard, and the muscular power of
his chest was curiously expressed in the
sound of his vigorous breathing, that exactly
resembled a whale blowing in the
distance.

"I reckon that taller cuss, Nathan, guesses
we're at the bottom of the sea by this
time," said he, with a grin that laid bare

his teeth. " There are three casks of rum
in the niainhold, slap under the hatches,
and they'll have broached one when they
cut us adrift, and I calculate there's been
no want of singing' aboard the Jessie this
day. They've cussed me and the old man
up to the eyes over and over again ; — you see ;
and Nathan has jumped on to the capon's
chair and given out my name, an' if I had
been thar listening' I couldn't know better
what he said than I dew here. Every
man'll have had a pannikin full o' black
rum, an' I know the words they gave meas
they drunk it down ! "

Beyond the tremble in his voice there
was no rage expressed in it ; but when he
had done speaking, he bit the shank of his
pipe off, and the bowl fell to the deck. He
did not appear to notice this for some
moments, and then suddenly spat the shank
from his mouth, picked up the bowl and
slung it overboard with a sweep of his arm
that made the air whistle, and sprang
forward ; and under the foot of the mainsail
I could see his dark body dancing up
the lower fore-rigging, his furious gestures

shaking the shrouds as heavily as if half a
dozen men were climbing them.

About half an hour before I went below a
little breeze sprang up from the north-west.
Before I had time to sing out to the watch
to trim the yards, Captain Taber tumbled
off the hencoop and came sprawling up tome
like a disjointed scarecrow on the top of
his long toes.

Now you have it ! " he cried, rubbing his
hands together until his knuckles cracked
under the friction. And he danced aft and
stood whistling over the stern as though he
were calling a dog ; and when the hands
came aft to man the main-braces, he tallied
on with them, shouting, " Hurrah ! here's
the Britisher as'll froth this puddle ! Handsomely
over the bricks, my bully boys I
Blow up, blow up ! Hurrah ! Here's the A 1
copper bottom as'll lay plump little Jessie
aboard ! Now then, you nigger, up aloft
with yer," he shouted to Obed ; " and if ye
catch sight of anything on the 'ripon, though
it be but a grit o' dirt, screech out, you
monkey, as though the devil was flying
away with you ! Hurrah ! the Jessie has

our tow-rope, and stand by, bullies, to haul
in the slack ! ' '

I was as much amused as the men by the
fellow's excitement. He hung about for
some time looking over the ship's side and
up aloft, and peering into the binnacle, and
then betook himself to the hencoop again,
adjusting his knees to his throat precisely
as before, and falling asleep instantly.

By the time the watch were relieved, the
ship was carrying three studding-sails and
the breeze freshening. I hove the log and
found her doing seven knots. Hearing the
log-reel rattle, the Yankee came aft, and
when I gave him the speed he burst into a
loud laugh, as harsh and metallic as the
rasping of a hand-saw. He watched the
ship's wake, gloating and chuckling, with
his mouth full of tobacco, and was evidently
surprised at the speed of the ship under a
breeze that was almost astern and still light
enough for so deep a vessel.

The wind held steady for several hours,
and then veered to the westward and came
on to blow fresh in strong puffs. It had hit
the W alder share's best sailing point, and at

nine o'clock the ship was lying clown with
her lee scuppers all bubbling, under a
tremendous show of canvas ; for Captain
Flanders, infected by the Yankee's excitement,
had set the main-topmast studding-sail,
which was more than he would have
done under ordinary circumstances, and the
vessel was roaring through the sea as she
had only once done before, and that was
when the gale had struck her, peeling the
water on her weather bow into a high green
transparent wave that curled and broke into
foam before it was abreast of the gangway,
and fled aft, mingling with the boiling water
that swept astern to leeward, and making a
wake as yellow as cream, that danced and
broadened down into the quivering horizon.
I never remember a more splendid sight
than the ship offered me from the forecastle,
whither I went to give some orders to the
boatswain. Eight forward away as far as
the flying jibboom end is the proper place to
look at a ship under canvas, for there she
seems a separate thing ; from that point of
view you have the whole of her in your eye,
and can behold the beautiful sight of her

bows ripping up and tearing the water,
leaping so as sometimes to expose her forefoot,
with the metal sheathing laid bare,
and shining brightly as the long lines of
foam rush down it, then burying her nose
with a hugh souse until only her figure-head
shows over the vast surge which she sends
boiling and hissing right under where you
are seated, while her decks slope down to
you in a steep run, and the quarter-boat
hanging far aft seems suspended over your
head. Even where I stood in the eyes of
her, though I could not see her bows, I
could command the whole of the square
canvas, and mark the superb run of her lee
bulwark against the white^foam flying past,
and her iron-black shrouds and backstairs
contrasted with the vast spaces of swollen
polished canvas, with the studding-sails
throwing their shadows clean and dark upon
the topsails, and the blue sky dancing between
the tops and cross-trees and under
the foot of the sails, and the water leaping
in sparkling green seas as high as her
weather bulwarks, then falling back with a
hollow hissing splash, like serpents exhausted

with their vain endeavours to leap
inboard.

The Jessie Jackson must be a clipper
with a vengeance if she can beat this ! "
thought I, the bright triumphant show
making the blood leap in my veins. If she
were ahead we were bound to overhaul her,
and I gazed aloft at the figure of Obed,
diminished to dwarfish proportions by the
great height he occupied, and longed for the
cry of " Sail ho ! " for already the excitement
of the chase — though, to be sure,
until we rose the barque we could not
pretend to call it a chase — was strong upon
me, and, as I believe,, on all hands. Every
Englishman belonging to the Walcler share
was eager to sight the vessel, if only to let
the Yankees see what a British merchantman
could do in the way of sailing.

However, three long hours went by and
nothing hove in sight. In all this time
Obed only came down once, and then merely
for a few minutes, whilst Captain Taber was
up in the mizzen-top every quarter of an
hour, working away with the glass to windward
and to leeward, and floundering up

and down the rigging with such a wild air
of excitement that all hands were on the
broad grin watching him. He had still his
long drawl and nasal accent, but the coolness
that had characterized his behaviour
on the preceding night was gone, and his
impatience w r as so great, that when he was
not up aloft he was running to and fro the
rail at the break of the poop, as you may
have seen a newly caught bird travelling
along the perch from side to side of his cage,
stopping a moment when he got to windward
to shade his eyes and peer at the
weather horizon, then flopping down to leeward
and pausing again to bend his head
and squint under the mainsail afc the lee
horizon ; while now and then he would
run aft and jump on to the weather poop-rail,
clawing the vang with one hand,
whilst he leaned his long body sheer over
the water in order to see ahead, in which
attitude he would utter a variety of exclamations,
addressed to the ship at the top of his
voice, such as " Go it, jade ! hurrah, bully !
spank along, spank along ! grease your old
heels and dance me a Yankee reel, for once !

well done, old ! drive into it, sweetheart
! " whilst he kept slapping his thigh
with his hand as if to encourage the ship by
the sound, and finally would spring on to
the deck again, making his long legs fly
out, and more than once coming plump on
his nose.

At about eleven o'clock, however, it
breeze up so smartly, that Captain
Flanders sung out to me to haul down the
main-topmast studding-sail. Indeed, he had
held on much longer than I should have
thought he would venture to do ; for the
foam was so close to leeward that a man
might almost have touched it by dropping
his arm over the bulwark, whilst to windward
the ship looked as if her hull were out
of water, and as if nothing prevented you
from seeing her keel but the bends of her ;
the forecastle was in a smother of foam, and
the thunder of the seas under her bows was
audible right aft. In truth, the Walcler share
was never before so driven ; all astern of
her the water flashed up as if a gale of wind
had just passed; and when she met a sea
she seemed to jump clean over it, while the

wind poured out of her courses like the voice
of a hurricane, and the sweat ran down the
faces of the two men who steered her as if
a can of oil had been capsized over their
heads.

And yet, after the captain had given the
order to get in the studding-sail, the Yankee
skipper remonstrated with him with a most
beseeching air. However, it would not do ;
Captain Flanders was not yet mad enough
to lose his spars in order to please a man
who wanted to overhaul a runaway ship,
and before noon we had all the studding-sails
in, and the fore and mizzen royal flying,
with hands aloft ; and even then the
ship was carrying a couple of top-gallant
sails more than she could bear.

Just, however, as the hands were on the
fore-royal clew lines and the sail was flapping,
Obed, who had dropped on to the topgallant
yard, raised a shout. Captain Taber
was right aft against the wheel at the time,
but no sooner did the cry reach his ears,
than he made a plunge and shot forwards
and sprang on to the fore-rigging, where he
nearly danced an ordinary seaman, who was

going aloft to furl the royal, into the sea by
the convulsive jerking of his legs.

The captain, Mr. Thomas, and myself
were taking sights at the time, and we could
not give any attention to Obed's shouts, but
when we had made eight bells, I put clown
my sextant and went forward. I looked up ;
a couple of ordinary seamen were on the
fore-royal yard stowing the sail, and just
under them, on either side the mast, were
the Yankee skipper and Obed, with their
glasses levelled at a point on the port bow.

Aloft there!" I shouted. " What do
you see ? "

A sail ! " roared Obed, without removing
the glasses from his eyes. " We're waiting
to rise her to see her rig."

"Forecastle there!" hailed Captain
Flanders. " Is there anything in sight ? "

Yes, sir, a sail," I answered.

11 Where away?"

On the port bow."

He held up his hand in token that he
heard me, and then went below, followed by
Mr. Thomas, each man to work out the
sights in his own cabin, and I returned to

the poop to wait until the chief mate came
on deck again. In ah out a quarter of an
hour Captain Taber came running aft, blowing
like a grampus.

"By the 'tarnal ! " he cried, "she's a
barque. She's riz high enough to see that.
She's under easy sail ! Lord ! if it was
only six hours earlier ! "

I took the glass from him, but she was
not yet visible from the deck.

We mustn't be cock-sure that she's the
Jessie Jackson, though," said I. "Barque-rigged
vessels are common enough hereabouts."


Wal, young man, we shall see," he answered.
" What's the capon ? "

Below, working out the sights."

He instantly bolted down the companion.
Shortly afterwards Mr. Thomas came on
deck.

Is the Yankee in sight yet ? " he asked.

No, sir, not from the deck; nor, as I
have just told the skipper, does it follow that
because there's a barque ahead it's his."

Can they make out what canvas she's
under?"

Easy canvas."

11 Main top-gallant sail, eh? Why, then,
we're not going to overhaul her in an hour,
Mr. Lee, if she chooses to crack on. What
does the Yankee mean to do if she turns
out to he his ship ? ' '

Board her, I suppose, sir."

But suppose they won't let him ? "

I shrugged my shoulders. " He's below
with Captain Flanders now : I suppose
they'll arrange something."

What did you make us doing just now
when you hove the log ? ' '

Ten and a half."

"If she's under easy canvas," said he r
she must he a fast vessel ; for if they can
make out her rig from the fore top-gallant
yard, something ought to he visible from
deck by this time, if we're overhauling herat
all."

I pointed the glass, but nothing was insight.
Mr. Espinosa now came up to me
with his wife, and wanted me to tell him
all about the American captain and his
ship ; but it was my watch below, and I
was not exactly in the humour for a cross-vol.

I. T

examination by Mr. Espinosa, so I referred
him to Mr. Thomas, and, after exchanging
a few words with Nelly, I left the deck.

I had a mouthful to eat before I went
to my cabin, and then I laid down and slept
soundly for about two hours ; when, awaking
and glancing through the port-hole, past
which the green water was sweeping at a
seed that made me guess the breeze was
still very fresh, I bethought me of the
Yankee barque, and all the excitement of
the chase coming into my mind, I bundled
out of my bunk and went on deck, content
to sacrifice the remainder of the rest I could
have taken for the sake of an adventure,
the like of which I had never before been
shipmates with.

The moment I gained the deck I saw
the whole of my watch on the forecastle
staring ahead. The watch on deck were,
of course, at work, but every man who
could invent an excuse for being forward
where he could command the sea was
there, and the cause was not far to seek.

Broad on the port bow was a little clipper
barque, between four and five miles distant,

painted black, and looking like a toy, all
her sails and her hull brilliantly defined in
the clear air, and sailing like a witch.
Captain Flanders, Captain Taber, Mr.
Thomas, and Obed were all to leeward of
the poop watching her with glasses, and
it seems that she was the Yankee's barque,
and that I had hit my time for coming on
deck cleverly, for only three minutes before
we had run up a signal for her to heave to —
the flags were all streaming in bright colours
at the peak — and it appeared that they
had just discovered our meaning, for their
two royal and fore top-gallant sails were
flying loose, and they were setting the gaff-topsail
; a good hint that they were short-handed,
for, after loosing the sails, they
only sheeted home one at a time. However,
it was evident they had no intention
of heaving to, and now that they suspected
we knew what had happened aboard of her,
they were evidently all anxiety to get away
from us. One by one they hoisted the
yards and made sail, until the little vessel
was a complete cloud of canvas, and we,
who had been overhauling her fast, now

found that she held her station ahead,
and was even beginning to widen the distance
between us.

The Yankee's excitement had passed
again, and he watched her as coolly as a
man might who had no interest in the
chase. Obed kept his eyes fixed on her
with a diabolical scowl. But Captain
Flanders' agitation was singular to witness ;
his eyes glowed in their sockets ; every
muscle in his face worked ; he was repeatedly
pulling off his hat to wipe his
forehead, and his legs and arms were all
of a quiver. The Yankee skipper glanced at
him often with real astonishment, and Mr.
Thomas drew away and stationed himself
on the weather side of the poop.

It was plain now that there was to bea
race for it, although, supposing we had
heels enough to range alongside, what could
we do if she refused to heave to ? We were
not a man-of-war ; we had no guns aboard ;
we could not bring her to with a shot.
We could, indeed, keep dodging after her
until we fell in with a Government vessel ;
but, then, they would see with half an

eye that we were a merchantman, and not
likely to do that ; and, indeed, I was surprised,
now she saw our signal to heave
to flying, that she did not put her helm
up and steer away to another course, for
they would very easily suspect it would
not answer our purpose to follow her.
However, she kept a steady helm, not altering
her course by so much as half a point,
and she ran along the water like a bird,
skimming over the waves with wonderful
grace and speed.

Finding that she was slowly drawing
away from us, Captain Flanders ordered
the royal to be set. It still blew a
moderate gale, and the sea had grown
very lively ; the log was hove, and it was
found that the extra canvas had increased
the speed of the Waldershare by about
half a knot. This was not worth counting,
and I heard the Yankee skipper tell
Captain Flanders that she could easily bear
all her studding-sails, and that if he commanded
her he would venture his spars
for the sake of the run. On this Captain
Flanders, whose excitement deepened as

the time went on, sung out to Mr. Thomas
to get the fore and main topmast studding-sails
on her. With this extra canvas the
Waldershare appeared to he more pressed
than she had been before they were hauled
down. Every plunge she gave made her
tremble fore and aft ; the seas flew in sheets
over her weather bow, and the lee side of
the main-deck was all afloat, for she was
burying her scuppers and the water could
not escape. Every moment I expected to
see something go. The strain was terrific ;
the rigging yelled, and she peeled the water
out of the sea just like the rind of an apple
falls over your thumb under the action of
a knife.

Once Captain Taber forgot his coolness,
and, rushing to the side, yelled out, whilst
he slapped his thighs, " She's got the scent !
Smoke and hum, sweetheart ! You have
her, old bucket ! "

Indeed, a general excitement was now
kindled fore and aft ; all the watch on deck
had left their work and joined their mates
on the forecastle, and no one thought of
calling them back to their duty ; and already

we were stealing up to the barque, from
under whose counter streamed a wake the
tail-end of which was almost abeam of us,
when we saw her hoist away her main topmast
studding-sail.

Damn 'em !" yelled the Yankee skipper,
running the joints of the telescope into
one another with a blow of the hand that
was like to snap them.

Let me have that glass for a moment,"
said I, and I levelled the tube.

She looked a vessel of about three hundred
tons, low in the water, and painted black,
with a narrow white streak. She had long*
staysail poles, though the yards were not
crossed, and these, with a very great hoist of
topsail, made her rig appear lofty almost out
of proportion with her size. A man stood
at the wheel, sometimes looking up and
sometimes around at us ; but with the exception
of another hand on the foreyard
who was doing something to the studding-sail
boom, I saw no sign of her crew. In
the softening light of the gathering evening,
with her shapely hull flashing black on the
running green waters, and her canvas soaring

above the water line and finding a background
in the dark southerly sky, she looked
like a piece of ivory carving ; sometimes all
below her topsails vanished behind a sea,
and then she would emerge, hove high, so
that her black hull and the cloud of canvas
it supported would appear poised for an
instant on a green transparent point of water
that reared above the horizon, and leave
upon the mind the impression that what it
beheld was an exquisite bit of miniature
painting.

We had undoubtedly been overhauling
her, though not very fast, either, before she
set her studding-sails ; but though this extra
canvas almost laid her on her beam ends,
and so much of her copper was out of water
that the western sun flashing on it made her
look as though the w T hole of her hull were
of bright yellow metal, it enabled her to
keep her distance from us, and in the intervals
between some of the puffs she drew
slightly ahead.

Gentlemen all!" shouted the Yankee
skipper, " look at her walking yonder ; is
she not a pictor ? Let her hoist the Stars

and Stripes jest for the colour of the bunting',
and she's such a show as the first theater
in Europe or America couldn't match.
Gentlemen all, she's half mine, and every
dollar I own in the world is in her, and
there's a hind old mother, a wife an' five
children, holding on to the tow-rope of the
Jessie Jackson, and she's got to keep 'em
going'. Captain Flanders is a British gentleman,
and his heart has warmed up to a
feller Christian an' a struggling' brother-sailor
in trouble ; and he means to chase
that lovely barque into a calm, and then put
me aboard of her. That's the time of day,
gentlemen all; and if e'er an officer aboard
this noble ship should find himself in
Ephraim . Taber's quandary, and Ephraim
is somewhat within the circumference of
the 'ripon to give him a hand, by God,
gentlemen, though it cost him half his
fortune, yet he'd serve him day an' night,
tooth an' nail, fist an' finger, blow high
or blow low, and this is the hand of an
American citizen upon it ! "

He struck the brass rail a heavy blow,
as if he meant that that should answer the
purpose of shaking hands all round.

I now began to see daylight ; indeed, the
'cuteness of the Yankee had hit upon the
only possible chance he had of recovering-his
ship, and that was by inducing Captain
Flanders to stick to her skirts until a calm
should enable ns to board her. But suppose
she should head out of our course ? Would
Captain Flanders follow her ?

I called Mr. Thomas's attention to the
captain's glowing eyes and pale and working-face,
and whispered that in my opinion the
Yankee was not only sharp enough to find
out that the captain of the Waldersliare was
not quite right in his mind, but to control
him to his wishes ; and that if we did not
mind our eye we should be finding ourselves
first and second mates of a kind of phantom
ship commanded by a lunatic, whose mission
was no longer to sail the ship to Callao, but
to pursue what he could not catch.

I'm prepared for everything and for the
worst," said Mr. Thomas, with a comical
face of hopelessness. "I give you my
word, Lee, I would rather have broken my
leg than joined this ship under Captain
Flanders."

He had scarcely said this when Obed
raised a shout. It was just such a cry asa
negro utters when you kick him on the
shins. I looked at the barque to which
he was pointing frantically with his great
dark hand, and at once saw that something
was wrong aboard of her.

See ! see ! " yelled Captain Taber, who
had steadied the glass on the rail, and was
peering into it with his back arched like an
enraged cat's ; '" the fellow's left the wheel
and bolton' forwards ! Thunder an' lightning
! look at the wheel ; it's flying round
like a locomotive's driver ! Christ ha' mercy !
There she broaches to ! Oh, my blessed
spars ! " and dashing down the telescope he
danced about the deck like a madman.

I had my eye on the vessel whilst he
raved, and saw her come round into the
wind, her canvas shaking furiously. In a
second the studding-sail booms broke off
clean at the irons as you might snap the
stem of a clay pipe ; immediately afterwards
the fore top-gallant mast toppled over,
breaking just under the yard, the flying jib
drooped to the water's edge ; and there she

lay almost on her beam ends, with her
jibboom pointing directly athwart our hawse,
everything in a wild flutter aloft ; the
wrecked mast with all its hamper lying
across the fore-topmast stay, the main-top-sail
yard down on the cap, the top-gallant
sail and royal all flying loose, and the whole
vessel looking like a wreck and driving bodily
to leeward.

Only an artist's pencil could depict the
Yankee captain's torture, as it was expressed
almost entirely in dumb show,
though now and again he screamed out
some incoherent phrase. He walloped
about the deck as though he had been
burnt in both feet, shaking his fist at
the barque, tearing off his hat and dashing
it on to the quarter-deck, rushing at
Obed with outstretched hands as though
he would strangle him, then slapping his
legs and squirting tobacco juice right and
left, without the smallest regard to the
eyes of the people around him.

"Get in your stun'sails ! " shouted Captain
Flanders, whose excitement, if not as
frenzied as the Yankee's, was more remarkable.

"Aft here, men, and bear a
hand ! Let go your royal and top-gallant
halliards fore and aft ! Haul up the mainsail
! Starboard your helm — starboard . . .
starboard . so ! Steady now ! keep herat
that. Smartly aloft, men, and furl those
royal. Stand by to back the foreyards ! " *

These orders flew out of his mouth in a
torrent, and with the ?heigh-like roar that
had astonished me on that night when he
had silenced the pilot's objection to his
sending a boat to the Frenchman on the
Goodwin. In truth, the barque had come
to a dead stop, and we were sweeping down
to her at the rate of ten knots an hour.

As we approached, we could form a better
opinion of the confusion aboard. No one
was at the wheel, but three or four men
were hauling on the clew lines. Every rope
aboard of her had been let go, but most of
them were jammed in the blocks ; the sails,
blown hard round the masts, prevented the

Captain Flanders was right. If you are the windward
ship lay your fore-topsail to the mast, for your
forward sails are more readily filled than the main, in
the event of your needing to forge ahead. — W. C. R.

yards from travelling ; the wind had twisted
the studding-sails around the standing rigging,
and, as the vessel gathered sternly,
with her starboard broadside hove high, the
seas glanced over her sides and fell in sheets
upon her decks.

"A pretty mess! " thought I; and had
she gone down bodily, I should not have
been at all surprised. We ran down to
within a quarter of a mile of her to windward,
backed the fore-topsail, and lay hove
to.

Thinking to make his voice carry, the
Yankee skipper jumped on to the poop-rail,
and clasping a backstay, put his hand to
his mouth, and hailed his vessel with a
fury that turned his face black, and I
thought that such another effort must rupture
a blood-vessel. Nevertheless he hailed
again, and yet a third time, in the same
wild manner, and was joined by Obed, who
had sprung half-way up the lee main rigging,
and stood there yelling. Indeed, the
contortions of the Yankee and his chief
mate were irresistibly absurd, and when to
these were added the harsh, rasping shreeh

of the one, and the heavy African yowl of
the other, the effect was overwhelming, and
there was scarcely a man forward in our
ship who was not shaking with laughter.

No notice being taken of all this shouting,
Captain Flanders sung out to the
steward to bring him his speaking-trumpet.
Barque ahoy ! " he roared.
We all waited for the responding " Hilloo ! "
but no answer came back. All the glasses
were in hand, but the only thing resembling
a man that I could make out with the naked
eye stood at the wheel, keeping it pressed
hard over, in the hope, of course, of getting
the barque to pay off.

We were all growing rather bewildered,
and the Yankee skipper was evidently at
a loss, when suddenly Mr. Thomas, who
was working away with a glass, cried out,
They're holding up a black board, sir,
and there's something written upon it ! "

I very plainly beheld the figures of two
men uprear themselves behind the high bulwarks,
holding between them a large blackboard.
The Yankee sprang off the rail,
tumbled on his knees, and levelled his glass.

"I can make it out," cried Mr. Thomas.
u 'NAT-DEA'~oh! ' NATHAN'S DEAD
—MUTINY'S OVER— COME ABOARD.'
That's it, sir."

"Ay, that's it!" sung out the Yankee.
Now for a boat, capon ! By glory, the old
hooker's mine again, after all ! Hurrah,
bullies ! "

The half-caste had swung himself on to
the deck and was already fumbling at the
falls of the port quarter-boat. " Pretty cool
fish!" thought I. "At all events, he
might wait until he gets his orders."

Lay aft some hands to board the
barque!" shouted Captain Flanders. In a
moment there was a rush of men. I think
every man in the ship, barring the cook
and the steward, floundered aft, and the
quarter-deck was thick with them.

Gently! " I sung out, as they rushed,,
elbowing each other, up the poop-ladders;
for, in truth, four men were as much as we
needed, seeing that I or Mr. Thomas would
have to take charge of the boat, and that
we had the Yankee and Obed to carry
as well.

Jump in there, Mr. Lee," called out the
captain ; " see that the plug's all right."

The men scrambled for a seat on the
thwarts, but as I was in command now, I
ordered them all out, and choosing four of
the strongest hands out of the crowd that
stood around, they got into the boat. I
followed; then came Obed, who squatted
himself in the bows ; and last entered the
Yankee, after warmly shaking Captain
Flanders' hand, and bowing to the passengers
with a mighty flourish of his arm —
for his hat was on the quarter-deck, and he
was too excited to remember that he was
without one.

Though it was blowing a very strong
breeze of wind, and there was a middling
sea on, I had no anxiety in facing it, always
haying had a great knack at "handling a
boat ; the port boat's Jails were also provided
with patent hooks, which sprang open
and released the boat the moment she
touched the water, and relieved the hooks
of her weight, and as to leeward of the hull
of the W alder share the water was tolerably
smooth, we got away from the ship very

vol. i. u

cleverly, and rowed smartly towards the
barque. Still, the sea was heavy enough
to demand some very nice steering ; one
moment w T e w T ere hove on the summit of
a wave, with the foam of it boiling under
us and alongside as high as our gunwales,
whilst the hull of the heeling barque seemed
actually beneath us, as though we looked
at her from the top of a hill ; the next
moment we had sunk into the hollow of the
sea, with w-alls of roaring green water all
around us, and a calm all about, though the
wind was whistling over our heads and
soaking our hair and faces with the spray it
flung down upon us.

The barque w r as rolling heavily, and the
long lines of the setting sun sparkled in her
streaming sides as she rose and fell to the
seas, which shattered themselves against her
sides and flew in smoke over her, or curled
in big green combers right on to her decks,
whilst all aloft her loose canvas was flapping
heavily, wringing the delicate upper spars,
or clinging like wet paper round her rigging,
and hampering and choking her running
gear. Five or six men stood aft watching

us, one right on the taffrail holding a coil of
rope, which, as we passed under her stern,
he flung into the boat ; the end was caught
by Obed, and a turn taken round the foremost
thwart. " In port oars ! " I shouted;
"pull to starboard, smartly!" and there
were we alongside, sheltered indeed from
the wind, but rising and falling heavily with
the sea. But, then, we were all sailors ; four
or five ropes' ends were flung over the side,
the gangway unshipped, and in a few
moments the whole of us had scrambled onto
the deck, Obed being the first, and I the
second. Plenty of line being given to the
boat, she veered away to leeward, and there
she lay dancing upon the sea, clear of the
vessel's side.

The first object that met my eyes was the
body of a man lying on his back, with his
arms stretched beyond his head — as dead asa
nail. He looked like a fallen giant ; he
was the biggest man I had ever seen. His
chest had fallen in, but the breadth of it,
with the immense thickness of the arms
and legs, the huge fleshy throat, and the
great hands, with the fingers almost as

thick as carrots, curled up with the nails
pointing into the broad palms, was something
to make a man hold his breath. His
eyes were v r ide open, but only the whites of
them where visible ; the under jaw had fallen
and lay bare a row of ivory-white fangs
which a shark might not have disdained, his
long reddish locks lay all abroad upon the
deck around his head, and gradually creeping
away from amongst them was a little
river of thick black, treacly-looking blood.

Not very far from where he lay was
another man lashed to the mizzen-mast with
turn upon turn of rope around his waist and
chest, with both his hands made fast and
hitched down to his knees, which were also
tightly bound. He was as dark as Obed,
but his brown was not of the same character,
being more of the sun-blacked olive of
the South American Spaniard. He was a
thin, wiry man, with no other clothes on
him than a red shirt and a pair of white
trousers ; his naked feet were almost black
from the compression of the rope around his
legs. I had thought the half-caste about
the most ruffianly animal I had ever seen ;

but after beholding tins man bound like
a wild beast to the mizzen-mast, I was
obliged to confess that, so far as villainous
expressions went, Obed's face was more
than matched here. He glanced at us one
hj one as we scrambled over the side on to
the deck, and just looked at Obed — I shall
never forget the desperate ferocity, the
murderous wickedness of that look whilst I
live — then fixed his eyes on the deck, and
never again raised them, nor moved a muscle
of his face, though I believe that the strangulation
at his chest, legs, and wrists was
causing him great pain.

So," exclaimed Captain Taber, " you've
thought better than finish this job, have
you ? But a pretty cussed mess you've
brought the Jessie into with your blasted
mutineers ! Who did that ? " he cried,
pointing to the dead body.

I did," answered a burly sailor, an Englishman
evidently, and in no sense an ill-looking
man. " I wasn't going to be hanged
for piracy, and so when we sighted yonder
ship, and made out Obed aboard of her, I
told Bill here, and Jameson, and Yankee

Joe what I guessed her arrant was, and as
we had no hand in this here bloody business
in the beginning, we determined to end it,
and so I struck him down, and the others
they seized Pictor yonder, and these men
joined us."

He poured all this forth in a rapid torrent,
pointing as he ceased to two of the men who
hung back behind the others.

I know you had no hand in this, Mat,"
said the skipper, " an' I reckon you've done
me a service that'll make us friends. Are
you willing to turn to ? " he shouted fiercely
to the skulking fellows behind, who were
two of the four who had planned and effected
the seizure of the barque.

"Ay," replied one of them in a dogged
voice, " we'll do our work an' serve ye
honestly if ye'll gie us your word yell not
peach again us when we gets to Pernambuco,
and that ye'll gie us our discharge
there."

The Yankee hung in the wind a moment ;
he glanced at Obed and they exchanged
looks.

Very well," he said, " let it be so.

Tally on now and get the barley straight.
Mr. Lee, your rnen'll help us, I hope."

Certainly," I answered, thinking I would
not give much for the chances of the two
men when the Jessie Jackson should be
once more en route.

"Here, carry this thing forward out of
the road," shouted Captain Taber, indicating
the dead body with a lift of his foot. A
couple of the men dragged the corpse out of
sight. The skipper never seemed to notice
the man who was lashed to the raizzen-
mast, but springing on to the weather
bulwarks and holding on to the rigging, he
began to sing out his orders, whilst Obed
took the wheel.

Now that he was aboard his own vessel
and could deliver his orders I at once saw
that the Yankee was a thorough sailor.
My four men, in addition to his own crew,
made eleven hands for him to control. As I
found that I should be only in the road by
seconding his orders, I let him have his own
way, whilst presently, not being able to
endure the sight of the sufferings of the
wretch at the foot of the mizzen-mast, I

stepped up to him and eased away the
turns around his legs and body and wrists,
though without loosing him. He never gave
me a "thank you," nor so much as lifted
his eyes ; he probably believed that the
moment the Waldershare was out of sight
they would hang him, and I have no doubt
they were all lawless enough aboard that
vessel to do worse things than that.

By dint of squaring the mainyards,
flattening in the foresheets, hauling up the
mainsail and lowering the mizzen, the
Yankee got his barque to pay off ; and when
they had filled away forward and got way
on her, they backed the mainland and hove
her to. The sun w T as now very near the
horizon, and I was anxious to regain the
Waldershare whilst there was still light, for
darkness follows sunset quickly in these
latitudes. Soon after we had boarded the
barque, the Waldershare swung her foreyards,
and then squaring away fore and aft, came
gracefully rolling and plunging past under
the barque's stern, when she put her helm
down and lay to abreast of us about three
hundred yards to leeward, where she remained

stationary, waiting for ns to rejoin
her, her bows rising and sinking like a racehorse
pawing the ground and arching his
neck eager to be gone, while her decks were
like a constellation with the flashing of the
sun in her brass and skylights, and the
water poured from her bows, as she lifted
them, in long white lines.

With the skipper at the wheel, and Obed
to make an eighth man aloft, the Yankee
would have hands enough to clear away
the wreck forward, the more especially as
the breeze was moderating, the clouds high,
and there was every sign of fair weather.
So, telling him I must begone, I sung out
to my men to lay aft and get the boat
alongside. However, before the Yankee
would part with us, he jumped below and
brought up a bottle of brandy, and gave
each of my men a large dram to drink his
health in. At the same time he presented
me with -a small, very elegantly chased gold
box for holding pipe-lights, and begged me
to keep it as a little token of his gratitude.
He then bade me repeat his thanks to
Captain Flanders, wringing my hand repeatedly.

The poor fellow was really grateful,
and I was heartily glad he had got his
vessel again ; though, as I glanced at the
blood-stain on the deck, and at the man
bound to the mizzen-niast, and at the faces
of the crew, who, with the exception of two,
were foreigners in coloured shirts, black-bearded
and with large rings in their ears,
I should not have cared to bet a dollar that
the Yankee would be let live to see the port
he was bound to. To manage such a crew
as that a man should never go without a
revolver, and wear a steel shirt under his
waistcoat.

We gained the WaldersJiare as the upper
limb of the sun was hovering on the rugged
horizon and looking as though the hull of
some great ship was burning there, and her
timbers all of a deep scarlet glow; and so
quickly did the shadows come running out
of the east that, before we had the quarter-boat
hoisted, it was almost dark and the
stars shining.

Nelly was so overjoyed to see me come
over the side, that she forgot her customary
prudence and ran to meet me. However,

though Thomas looked up at me with a
grin, I doubt if the skipper saw the action.
Any way, I passed on to him and made my
report, and then came back to Nelly, and
stood with her and Thomas watching the
barque, telling them what I had seen onboard,
and producing the Yankee's gift,
which I said I should value as a curiosity
and as the memorial of a singular adventure.


The barque was astern of us, but had
braced her main yards round and was lying
up so as to make a more westerly course
than we. She loomed under the stars like
a pale cloud, but even with the help of the
glass I could not make out how they were
managing with their wrecked top-gallant
mast, and the hamper of studding-sails and
canvas that lay all in a muddle forward.
In twenty minutes' time she was a faint
glimmering patch on our weather quarter,
and then she entirely vanished.

We never knew the origin of the mutiny :
the Yankee had told Captain Flanders how,
but not icliy, it happened, and I could not

discover that the crew had said a word
to the men who boarded her with arne.
But Obed's face had satisfied me that the
cause of it was bad treatment, and the
Yankee's very reserve made me the more
inclined to think so. And do not let the
reader flatter himself that incidents of this
nature are rare at sea. Fire, tempest,
collision, overloaded or leaky ships, by no
means make out the whole catalogue of the
causes of maritime disaster. Let any mango
and examine for himself the crews many
vessels ship, and he will agree with me that
mutiny and the wilful destruction of ships
ought to be included as a fertile factor
among the causes of those disasters which
are generalized in our ignorance under the
heading of " Missing." However, maritime
evils are things which landsmen refuse to
take any interest in and a writer only
proves tedious by endeavouring to point
them out.

END OF VOL. I.

LONDON ; PRTXTF.D BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS. LIMITED,
cIAMi'ORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, 188, Fleet Street, London,
April, 18S0.

a Selection from tlje 2tst of hoofed

PUBLISHED BY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

A CLASSIFIED Educational Catalogue of Works *
wished in Great Britain. Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Second Edition,

revised and corrected to Christmas, 1S79, 5^.
About (Edmund). See " The Story of an Honest Man."
About Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of "A Day

of my Life." Cloth limp, square imo, is. 6d.
Adventures of Captain Ago. A Phoenician's Explorations

1000 years B.C. By Leon Cahun. Numerous Illustrations. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5*.

Adventures of a Young Naturalist By Lucien Biart, with
117 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by Parker
Gillmore. Post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, New Edition, js. 6d.

Afghan Knife the). A Novel. By Robert Armytage
Sterxdale, Author of " Seonee." Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Afghanistan and the Afghans. Being a Brief Review of the
History of the Country, and Account of its People. By H. W.
Belle, C.S.I. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Alcott (Louisa AT.) Jimmy s Cruise in the " Pinafore.' With 9
Illustrations. Second Edition. Small post 8vo, cloth gilt, 3-r. 6d.

Aunt Jo's Scrap-Bag. Square 161110, 2s. 6d.

(Rose Library, is. )

Little Amen : Life at Plumfield with Jos Boys. Small

postSvo, cloth, gilt edges, y. 6d. (Rose Library, Double vol. 2s. )
Little Women. 1 vol., cloth, gilt edges, 3*. 6d. (Rose

Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

A

Alcott (Louisa M.) Old-fashioned Girl. Best Edition, small
post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3.5-. 6d. (Rose Library, 2s.)

Work and Beginning Again. A Story of Experience.

Experience. I vol., small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Several Illustrations.
(Rose Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

Shawl Straps. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 3*. 6d.

Eight Cousins ; or, the Aunt Hill. Small post 8vo,

with Illustrations, 3-f. 6d.
The Rose in Bloom. Small post 8vo, cloth extra,

3,. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

Jack and Jill. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 55.

"Miss Alcott's stories are thoroughly healthy, full of racy fun and humour . . .
exceedingly entertaining We can recommend the ' Eight Cousins. '"-—
A thencBum.

Alpine Ascents and Adventures ; or, Bock and Snow Sketches.

By H. Shuts Wilson, of the Alpine Club. With Illustrations by

Whimper and Marcus Stone. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. 2nd Edition.
Andersen (Hans Christian) Fairy Tales. With Illustrations in

Colours by E. V. B. Royal 4to, cloth, 25^.
Animals Painted by Themselves. Adapted from the French of

Balzac, Georges Sands, &c, with 200 Illustrations by Granville.

8vo, cloth extra, gilt, vos. 6d.

Art Education. See " Illustrated Text Books."

Art in the Mountains: The Story of the Passion Play. By
Henry Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Breton
Folk," &c. With numerous Illustrations, and an Appendix for
Travellers, giving the Expenses of the Journey, Cost of Living, Routes
from England, &c, Map, and Programme for 1880. 4to, cloth, 10s. 6d.

"Of the many previous accounts of the play, none, we are disposed to think,
recalls that edifying and impressive spectacle with the same clearness and
vividness as Mr. Blackburn's volume." — Guardian.

He writes in excellent taste, and is interesting from the first page to the
last." — Saturday Review.

Art of Reading Aloud (The) in Pulpit, Lecture Room, or Private
Reunions. By G. Vandenhoff, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Art Treasures in the South Kensington Museum. Published,
with the sanction of the Science and Art Department, in Monthly
Parts, each containing 8 Plates, price is. In this series are included
representations of Decorative Art of all countries and all times from
objects in the South Kensington Museum, under the following classes: —

Sculpture : Works in Marble, Ivory, and Terra-Cotta.

Bronzes : Statuettes, Medallions, Plaques, Coins.

Decorative Painting and Mosaic.

Decorative Furniture and Carved Wood-Work.

Ecclesiastical Metal Work.

Gold and Silversmiths' Work and Jewellery.

Limoges and Oriental Enamels.

Pottery of all Countries.

Glass : Oriental, Venetian, and German.

Ornamental Iron-Work : Cutlery.

Textile Fabrics : Embroidery and Lace.

Decorative Bookbinding.

Original Designs for Works of Decorative Art.

Views of the Courts and Galleries of the Museum.

Architectural Decorations of the Museum.
The Plates are carefully printed in atlas 8vo (13 in. by 9 in), on
thick ivory-tinted paper ; and are included in a stout wrapper, ornamented
with a drawing from " The Genoa Doorway " recently acquired
by the Museum.

Asiatic Turkey : being a Native of a Journey from Bombay
to the Bosphorus. By Grattan Geary, Editor of the Times of India.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with many Illustrations, and a Route
Map, 28j.

Australian Abroad (The). Branches frown the Main Routes
Round the World. Comprising the Author's Route through Japan,
China, Cochin-china, Malaria, Sunday, Java, Torres Straits, Northern
Australia, New South Wales, South Australia, and New Zealand. By
James Kingston (" J. H." of the Melbourne Argus). With Maps
and numerous Illustrations from Photographs. 2 vols., 8vo, 145-. each.

Autobiography of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, R.A., F.S.A., accredited
by his Son, G. Gilbert Scott. With an Introduction by the
Dean of Chichester, and a Funeral Sermon, preached in Westminster
Abbey, by the Dean of Westminster. Also, Portrait on
steel from the portrait of the Author by G. Richmond, R. A. I vol.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 18s.

-DAKER (Lieut-gen. Valentine Pasha). See "War in
•*-^ Bulgaria."

THE BAYARD SERIES,

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.

Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
"We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price 2S. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard. By M. De Servile.
De Joinville St. Louis, King of Fi-once.

a 2

The Bayard Series continued) :—

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or the Four Leaves. By Edward Laboullaye.

Table laik and Opinions of Napoleon Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance. By William Beckford.

The King and the Commons. A Selection of Cavalier and
Puritan Songs. Edited by Prof. Morley.

Words of Wellington : Maxims and Opinions of the Great
Duke.

Dr. Johnson Tassels, Prince of Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazlitt Round Table. With Biographical Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia, and the Letter to a Friend.
By Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Christened, and other Imaginative Poems. With
Preface by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences, and Maxims. With.
Introduction by the Editor, and Essay on Chesterfield by M. de Ste. -
Veuve, of the French Academy.

Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballantyne.

My Uncle Toby; his Story and his Friends. Edited by
P. Fitzgerald.

Reflections ; or, Moral Sentences and Maxims of the Duke de
la Rochefoucauld.

Socrates : Memoirs for English Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert Golden Precepts.

A Case containing 12 Volumes, price $is.6d.; or the Case separately, price 3*, 6d.

Beauty and the Beast. An Old Tale retold, with Pictures by
E. V. B. 4to, cloth extra. 10 Illustrations in Colours. \zs. 6d.

Bearers' German Copybooks. In six gradations at $d. each. »

Biart (Lucien). See "Adventures of a Young Naturalist,"
"My Rambles in the New "World," "The Two Friends," " Involuntary
Voyage*'

Bickersteth'' s Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer
may be had in various styles and bindings from id. to dis. Price
List and Prospectus will be forwarded on application.

Bickersteth rev. E. H, M.A.) The Reef and other Parables.

I vol. , square 8vo, with numerous very beautiful Engravings, is. 6d.

The Clergyman in his Home. Small post 8vo, is.

The Master's Home Call ; or, Brief Memorials of

Alice Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, is.

The Master's Will. A Funeral Sermon preached

on the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, 6d. ; cloth gilt, is.
The Shadow of the Rock. A Selection of Religious

Poetry. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. 7th

Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.
Bidaa. The Authorized Version of the Four Gospels, with the

whole of the magnificent Etchings on Steel, after drawings by M.

BiDA, in 4 vols., appropriately bound in cloth extra, price 3/. 3s. each.
Also the four volumes in two, bound in the best morocco, by Suitably,

extra gilt edges, 18/. iSs., half morocco, 12/. 12s.

Bidaa's Illustrations of the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. John have already

received here and elsewhere a full recognition of their great merits." — Times.

Biographies of the Great Artists, illustrated. This Series is
issued in the form of Handbooks. Each is a Monograph of a Great
Artist, and contains Portraits of the Masters, and as many examples
of their art as can be readily procured. They are Illustrated with from
16 to 20 Pud page Engravings. Cloth, large crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. per
Volume.

Titian. Rubens. Tintoret and Veronese.

Rembrandt. Leonardo, Hogarth.

Raphael. Turner. Michelangelo.

Van Deck and Hals. The Little Masters. Reynolds.

Holbein. Delaroche& Vernet. Gainsborough.

Figure Painters of Holland.

"A deserving Series, based upon recent German publications." — Edinburgh
Review.

Most thoroughly and tastefully edited." — Spectator.

Black ( JV?n.) Three Feathers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lady Silver dale's Sweetheart, and other Stories. 1 vol.,

small post 8vo, 6s.

• Kilmeny : a Novel. Small post 8vo, cloth, 6s.

fn Silk Atti?-e. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

A Daughter of Heth. nth Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Sunrise. 15 Monthly Parts, is. each.

Blackmore (R. D.) Lorna Doo?ie. both Edition, cr. 8vo, 6s.

Alice Lorraine, i vol., small post 8vo, 6th Edition, 6s,

Clara Vaughan. Revised Edition, 6s.

Cradock Nowell. New Edition, 6s.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Mary A fieri ey. 3 vols., 31J. 6d.

Erema ; or, My Father's Sin. With 1 2 Illustrations,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Blossoms from the Kings Garden : Sermons for Children. By
the Rev. C. Bosanquet. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Blue Banner (The); or, The Adventures of a Mussulman, a
Christian, and a Pagan, in the time of the Crusades and Mongol
Conquest. Translated from the French of Leon Cahun. With
Seventy-six Wood Engravings. Imperial l6mo, cloth, gilt edges,
7 J. 6d. ; plainer binding, $s.

Boy's Froissart (The). 75. 6d. See " Froissart."

Brave Janet: A Story for Girls. By Alice Lee. With
Frontispiece by M. Ellen Edwards. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 35-. 6d.

Brave Men in Action. By S. J. Mackenna. Crown 8vo,
480 pp., cloth, lew. 6d.

Brazil : the Amazons, and the Coast. By Herbert H. Smith.
With ?I5 Full-page and other Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 650 pp., 21s.

Brazil and the Brazilians. By J. C. Fletcher and D. P.
Kidder. 9th Edition, Illustrated, 8vo, 21s.

Breton Folk : An Artistic Tour in Brittany. By Henry
Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Normandy Picturesque,"
&c. With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott.
Imperial 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2\s.

British Goblins : Welsh Folk-Lore, Fairy Mythology, Legends,
and Traditions. By Wirt Sykes, United States Consul for Wales.
With Illustrations by J. H. Thomas. This account of the Fairy
Mythology and Folk-Lore of his Principality is, by permission, dedicated
to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. Second Edition. Svo, i8j.

British Philosophers.

Buckle (Henry Thomas) The Life and Writings of By Alfred

Henry Hath. With Portrait. 2 vols., demy 8vo.
Burnaby (Capt.) See H On Horseback."

Burnham Beeches (Heath, F. G.). With numerous Illustrations
and a Map. Crown Svo, cloth, gilt edges, 3.9. 6d. Second Edition.

"Writing with even more than his usual brilliancy, Mr. Heath here gives the
public an interesting monograph of the splendid old trees. . . . This charming
Utile work." — Globe.

Butler ( W. F.) Tie Great Logie Land ; ai Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1869-70. With Illustrations and Map. Fifth and
Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 7.5-. 6d.

The Wild North Land; the Story of a Winter Journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. Demy Svo, cloth, with
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, iSj - . Cr. Svo, Js. 6d.
Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. Demy Svo, cloth,

2nd Edition, 16s. Also, in crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

/~*ADOGAN (Lady A.) Ll list rated Games of Patience.

^ Twenty four Diagrams in Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, 12s. 6d.

Caldecott (P.). See " Breton Folk'

Carbon Process (A Ma final of). See Liesegang.

Ceramic Art. See Jacquemart.

Changed Cross (The), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.

Chant Book Companion to the Book of Common Prayer. Consisting
of upwards of 550 Chants for the Daily Psalms and for the
Canticles ; also Kyrie Lessons, and Music for the Hymns in Holy
Communion, &c. Compiled and Arranged under the Musical Editorship
of C. J. Vincent, Mus. Bac. Crown 8vo,' 2s. 6d. ; Organist's
Edition, cap. 4to, $s.

Of various Editions of Hymnal Companion, Lists will be forwarded on
application.

Child of the Cavern (nie) ; or, Strange Doings Underground.
By Jules Verne. Translated by W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous
Illustrations. Sq. cr. Svo, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; cl., plain edges, 5-r.

Child's Play, with 1 6 Coloured Drawings by E. V. B. Printed
on thick paper, with tints, Js. 6d.

• Neu. By E. V. B. Similar to the above. See New.

Children's Lives and How to Preserve Them ; or, The Nursery
Handbook. By W. Lamas, M. D. Crown Svo, cloth, 5^.

Children's Magazine. Illustrated. See St. Nicholas.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each, Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsley, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes

Milton's L' Allegro.

Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.

Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of Memory.

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.

Tennyson's May Queen.

Elizabethan Poets.

Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — A themis.

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Chaff. A New Edition,

Revised, cloth, gilt edges, 6s.
Cobbett ( William). A Biography. By Edward Smith. 2

vols., crown 8vo, 2$s.
Comedy the) of Europe, iso — 1890. A retrospective and

prospective Sketch. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Conflict of Christianity with Heathenism. By Dr. Gerhard

Unshorn. Edited and Translated from the Third German Edition

by G. C. Smyth and C. J. H. Ropes. 8vo, cloth extra, ioj. 6d.
Continental Tour of Eight Days for Forty-four Shillings. By

a Journey-man. imo, is.

"The book is simply delightful." — Spectator.

Core (The). See " Forbidden Land."

Covert Side Sketches: Thoughts on Hunting, with Different

Packs in Different Countries. By J. Nevitt Pitt (H.H.of the Sporting

Gazette, late of the Field). 2nd Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, har. 6d.
Trade-Land of Arts and Creeds ; or, Nothing New under the

Sun. By Charles J. Stone, Barrister-at-law, and late Advocate,

High Courts, Bombay, 8vo, pp. 420, cloth, 14J.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, 6s. See Blackmore.

Cruise of H. Mss. " Challenger" (The). By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.
With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demy 8vo, cloth,
i8j. Cheap Edition, crown 8vo, some of the Illustrations, Js. 6d.

Curious Adventures of a Field Cricket. By Dr. Ernest
Candle. Translated by N. Dangers. With numerous fine
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d.

T)ANA (R. LL) Two Years before the Mast and Twenty Four
-^ years After. Revised Edition with Notes, imo, daughter
(A) of Heth. By W. Black. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Day of My Life (A) ; or, Every Day Experiences at Eton.
By an Eton Boy, Author of "About Some Fellows." imo, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d. 6th Thousand.

Day out of the Life of a Little Maiden (A): Six Studies from
Life. By Sheer and Angler. Large 4to, in portfolio, 5-r.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Dick Cheveley : his Fortunes and Misfortunes. By W. H. G.
Kingston. 350 pp., square 161110, and 22 full-page Illustrations.
Cloth, gilt edges, js. 6d.

Dick Sands, the Boy Captain. By Jules Verne. With
nearly 100 Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges, vos. 6d.

Dodge mrs. M.) Bans Brinker; or, the Silver Skates. An
entirely New Edition, with 59 Full-page and other Woodcuts.
Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, $s. ; Text only, paper, is.

Dogs of Assize. A Legal Sketch-book in Black and White.
Containing 6 Drawings by Walter J. Allen. Folio, in wrapper, 6s. 8d.

Cousins. See Alcott.

£Might

Eldmuir: An Art Story of Scottish Home-Life, Scenery, and
Incident. By Jacob Thompson, Tun. Illustrated with Engravings
after Paintings of Jacob Thompson. With an Introductory Notice
by Llewellyn N Hewitt, F.S.A., &c. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s.

Elinor Dry den. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Embroidery handbook of). By L. Higgins. Edited by Lady
Marian Afford, and published by authority of the Royal School of
Art Needlework. With 16 page Illustrations, Designs for Borders,
&c. Crown 8vo, $s.

English Catalogue of Books the). Published during 1863 t0
1871 inclusive, comprising also important American Publications. 30J.
*** Of the previous Volume, 1835 to 1862, very few remain on
sale ; as also of the Index Volume, 1837 to 1857.

> Supplements, 1863, 1864, 1865, 3s. 6d. each; 1866

to 1880, 5*. each.
English Writers, Chapters for Self-improvement in English

Literature. By the Author of "The Gentle Life," 6s. ; smaller

edition, 2s. 6d.

English Philosophers. A Series of Volumes containing short
biographies of the most celebrated English Philosophers, designed to
direct the reader to the sources of more detailed and extensive criticism
than the size and nature of the books in this Series would permit.
Though not issued in chronological order, the series will, when
complete, constitute a comprehensive history of English Philosophy.
Two Volumes will be issued simultaneously at brief intervals, in square
l6mo, price is. 6d.

The following are already arranged : —
Bacon. Professor Fowler, Professor of Logic in Oxford.
Berkeley. Professor T. H. Green, Professor of Moral Philosophy,

Oxford.
Hamilton. Professor Monk, Professor of Moral Philosophy, Dublin.
J. S. Mill. Miss Helen Taylor, Editor of "The Works of

Buckle," &c.
Manse. Rev. J. H. Huckin, Dad., Head Master of Repton.
Adam Smith. Mr. J. A. Farmer, M.A., Author of "Primitive

Manners and Customs'

English Philosophers, continued: —

Hobbes. Mr. A. H. Posset, B.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford.
Bentham. Mr. G. E. Buckle, M.A., Fellow of All Souls', Oxford.
Austin. Mr. Harry Johnson, B.A., late Scholar of Queen's

College, Oxford.
Hartley. *) Mr. E. S. Bowen, B.A., late Scholar of New College,
James Mill. ) Oxford.

Erchomenon ; or, The Republic of Materialism. Small post

8vo, cloth, $s.
Erema ; or, My Father's Sin. See Blackmore.

Eton. See " Day of my Life," "Out of School," " About Some

Fellows."
Evans (C) Over the Hills and Far Away. By C. Evans.

One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.
A Strange Friendship. Crown 8vo, cloth, $s.

pAMILY Prayers for Working Men. By the Author of
•*■ " Steps to the Throne of Grace." With an Introduction by the

Rev. E. H. Bickersteth, M.A. Cloth, is. ; sewed, 6d.

Fen Paradise (The): A Plea for the Culture of Ferns. By F. G.
Heath. New Edition, entirely Rewritten, Illustrated with Eighteen
full-page, numerous other Woodcuts, including 8 Plates of Ferns and
Four Photographs, large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 12s. 6d. Sixth
Edition. In 12 Parts, sewn, u. each.

"This charming Volume will not only enchant the Fern-lover, but will also
please and instruct the general reader"— Spectator.

Fern World (The). By F. G. Heath. Illustrated by Twelve
Coloured Plates, giving complete Figures (Sixty-four in all) of every
Species of British Fern, printed from Nature ; by several full-page
Engravings. Cloth, gilt, 6th Edition, 12s. 6d. In 12 parts, is. each.
Mr. Heath has really given us good, well-written descriptions of our native
Ferns, with indications of their habitats, the conditions under which they grow
naturally, and under which they may be cultivated." — Athenaeum.

Few (A) Hints oti Proving J Fills. Enlarged Edition, is.

First Steps in Conversational French Grammar. By F. Julien.
Being an Introduction to " Petites Lemons de Conversation et de
Grammaire," by the same Author. Cap. 8vo, 128 pp., is.

Five Years in Minnesota. By Maurice Farrar, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Flooding of the Sahara (The). See Mckenzie.

Food for the People ; or, Lentils and other Vegetable Cookery.
By E. E. Orlebar. Third Thousand. Small post 8vo, boards, It.

A Fool's Errand. By One of the Fools. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5x.

Footsteps of the Master. See Stowe (Mrs. Beecher).

Forbidden Land (A) : Voyages to the Core. By G. Pert.
Numerous Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, i\s.

Four Lectures on Electric Induction. Delivered at the Royal
Institution, 1878-9. By J. E. H. Gordon, B.A. Cantab. With
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square imo, y.

Foreign Countries and the British Colonies. Edited by F. S.
Pulling, M.A., Lecturer at Queen's College, Oxford, and formerly
Professor at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. A Series of small Volumes
descriptive of the principal Countries of the World by well-known
Authors, each Country being treated of by a Writer who from
Personal Knowledge is qualified to speak with authority on the Subject.
The Volumes will average 180 crown 8vo pages, will contain Maps,
and, in some cases, a few typical Illustrations.

The following Volumes are in preparation : —

Canada.

Sweden and Norway.
The West Indies.
New Zealand.

Franc (Maude Jane). The following form one Series, small
post 8vo, in unison cloth bindings : —

Emily's Choice. 5^.

■ Hales Vineyard. 4s.

John's Wife : a Story of Life in South Australia. 4s,

■ Marian ; or, the Light of Some One's Home. $s.

Silken Cords and Iron Fetters. 4s.

Vermont Vale. $s.

Minnie's Mission. 4s.

Little Mercy. $s.

Beatrice Melton. 4s.

Friends and Foes in the Transfer : An Englishwoman's experiences
during the Cape Frontier War of 1877-8. By Helen M.
Richard. Crown 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d.

Froissart (27ie Boy's). Selected from the Chronicles of England,
France, Spain, &c. By Sidney Lanier. The Volume will
be fully Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, Js. 6d.

Funny Foreigners and Eccentric Englishmen. 1 6 coloured
comic Illustrations for Children. Cap. folio, coloured wrapper, as.

SHAMES of Patience. See Cadogan.

Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in 1, small 4to, hoi. dd.

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6s. each ; or in calf extra, price 10s. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, is. 6d.
A Reprint (with the exception of "Familiar Words" and "Other
People's Windows ") has been issued in very neat limp cloth bindings
at 2s. 6d. each.

The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. 2 1st Edition.

Deserves to be printed in letters of gold, and circulated in every house"—
Chambers' Journal.

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

It is not easy to open it at any page without finding some handy idea"— Morning
Post.

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'
De Imitation Christi." 2nd Edition.

Could not be presented in a more exquisite form, for a more sightly volume was
never seen." — Illustrated London Nets.

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences
that have become embedded in the English language. 3rd and
enlarged Edition. 6s.

"The most extensive dictionary of quotation we have met with." — Moles and
Queries.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life." With Portrait. 2nd Edition.

We should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a large circulation
for this handsome attractive book." — Illustrated Times.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. Written by Sir Philip
Sidney. Edited with Notes by Author of " The Gentle Life." Js. 6d.
"All the best things are retained intact in Mr. Friswell's edition." — Examiner.

The Gentle Life. 2nd Series, 8th Edition.

There is not a single thought in the volume that does not contribute in some
measure to the formation of a true gentleman." — Daily News.

The Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life." 3rd Edition.
"All who possess 'The Gentle Life ' should own this volume." — Standard.

Half-length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Essays on English Writers, for the Self-improvement of

Students in English Literature.

"To all who have neglected to read and study their native literature we would

certainly suggest the volume before us as a fitting introduction." — Examiner.

The Gentle Life Series (continued) : —

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 3rd Edition.

"The chapters are so lively in themselves, so mingled vii shrewd views of
human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that the reader cannot fail to be
amused. " — Morning Post.

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

German Primer. Being an Introduction to First Steps in

German. By M. T. Pre. 2s. 6d.
Getting On in the World ; or, Hints on Success in Life. By

W. Mathews, LL.D. Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, y. 6d.
Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large

post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with "The Fern

World " and < ' Our Woodland Trees. " 1 2s. 6d.

"Those who know Mr. Heath's Volumes on Ferns, as well as his 'Woodland

Trees,' and his little work on ' Burnham Beeches,' will understand the enthusiasm

with which he has executed his task. . . . The Volume deserves to be a favourite

in the boudoir as well as in the library." — Saturday Review.

Gordon (J. E. H.). See " Four Lectures on Electric Induction,"
" Physical Treatise on Electricity," &c.

Gouffe. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse Gouffe, Head
Pastrycook to her Majesty the Queen. Illustrated with large plates
printed in colours. 161 Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. 2s.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, 10s. 6d.

By far the ablest and most complete work on cookery that has eve been submitted
to the gastronomical world." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Gouraud (Aldlle.) Four Gold Pieces. Numerous Illustrations.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2J. 6d. See also Rose Library.
Government of M. Their. By Jules Simon. Translated from

the French. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 32J.
Great Artists. See Biographies.
Greek Grammar. See Waller.
Guizofs History of France. Translated by Robert Black.

Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
5 vols., cloth extra, gilt, each 24J.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
Students of history." — Times.

Mas son's School Edition. The

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, M.A.,
with Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical Tables, &c.
By Professor Gustave Mason, B.A., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy 8vo, 600 pp., cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Guizofs History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 Full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24J. each.

"For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted." — Times.

Guy on saide.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Handbook to the Charities of London. See Low's.

of Embroidery ; which see.

to the Principal Schools of England. See Practical.

Half Hours of Blind Alan's Holiday ; or, Summer and Winter

Sketches in Black & White. By W. W. Penn. 2 vols., cr. 8vo, 245-.
Half Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell. Small post 8vo, 6s. ; Smaller Edition, 2s. 6d.
Hall (IV. W.) How to Live Long; or, 1408 Health Maxims,

Physical, Mental, and Moral. By W. W. Hall, A.M., M.D.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. Second Edition.

Hans Brinker; or, the Silver Skates. See Dodge.

Have I a Vote ? A Handy Book for the Use of the People,
on the Qualifications conferring the Right of Voting at County and
Borough Parliamentary Elections. With Forms and Notes. By
T. H. Lewis, B.A., LL.B. Paper, 6d.

Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels and Adventures in the
Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from 1868 to 1 87 1. By Dr.
George Schweinfurth. Numerous Illustrations, and large Map.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 15^.

Heath francis George). See " Fern World," " Fern Paradise,"
"Our Woodland Trees," "Trees and Ferns;" "Gilpin's Forest
Scenery," " Burnham Beeches," "Sylvan Spring," &c.

Heber's bishop) Illustrated Edition of Hymns. With upwards
of 100 beautiful Engravings. Small 4to, handsomely bound, Js. 6d.
Morocco, i8j-. 6d. and2U. An entirely New Edition.

Hector Servadac. See Verne, i os. 6d. and coheir

of Kilfinnan { The). New Story by W. H. G. Kingston,
Author of " Snow Shoes and Canoes," " With Axe aud Rifle," &c.
With Illustrations. Cloth, gilt edges, Js. 6d.

History and Handbook of Photography. Translated from the
French of Gaston Tissandier. Edited by J. Thomson. Imperial
l6mo, over 300 pages, 70 Woodcuts, and Specimens of Prints by the
best Permanent Processes. Second Edition, with an Appendix by
the late Mr. Henry Fox Talbot. Cloth extra, 6s.

History of a Crime the) ; Deposition of an Eye-witness. By
Victor Hugo. 4 vols., crown 8vo, 42^. Cheap Edition, 1 vol., 6s.

England. See Guizot.

France. See Guizot.

of Russia, ee Rambled.

Merchant Shipping. See Lindsay.

- — United States. See Bryant.

Ireland. Standish Grady. Vols. I. and II., js. 6d.

each.

American Literature. By M. C. Tyler. Vols. I.

and II., 2 vols, 8vo, 24J.
History and Principles of Weaving by Hand and by Power. With

several hundred Illustrations. By Alfred Barlow. Royal 8vo,

cloth extra, 1/. 5-r. Second Edition.
Hitherto. By the Author of" The Gayworthys." New Edition,

cloth extra, 3j\ 6d. Also, in Rose Library, 2 vols., 2s.
Home of ' the Edda. By C. G. Lock. Demy 8vo, cloth, 16s.
How to Live Long. See Hall.
How to get Strong and how to Stay so. By William Bailie.

A Manual of Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, and other Exercises.

With Illustrations, small post 8vo, $s.
"Worthy of every one's attention, whether old or young." — Graphic.

Hugo victor) "Ninety-three." Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Toilers of the Sea. Crown 8vo. Illustrated, 6s. ; fancy

boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. ; On large paper with all the original

Illustrations, I or. 6d.

See " History of a Crime.'

Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 vols., containing 15 to 20
Portraits. each, 2\s. each. See below.

"Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. are about to issue an important 'International'
work, entitled, "THE HUNDRED GREATEST MEN;' being the Lives and
Portraits of the hoo Greatest Men of History, divided into Eight Classes, each Class
to form a Monthly Quarto Volume. The Introductions to the volumes are to be
written by recognized authorities on the different subjects, the English contributors
being Dean Stanley, Mr. Matthew Arnold, Mr. Froude, and Professor Max
Miller: in Germany, Professor Helmholtz ; in France, MM. Taine and
Renal ; and in America, Mr. Emerson. The Portraits are to be Reproductions
from fine and rare Steel Engravings"— Academy.

Hygiene and Public Health {A Treatise on). Edited by A. H.

BUCK, M.D. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. In 2

royal 8vo vols. , cloth, one guinea each.
Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer. See

BlCKERSTETH.

7 Illustrate Text Books of Art-Education. A Scries
■*■ of Monthly Volumes preparing foi publication. Edited by Edward
J. Pointer, R. A., Director for Art, Science and Art Department.

The first Volumes, large crown Svo, cloth, ^s. 6d. each, will be issued in ike
following divisions : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. j French and Spanish.

German, Flemish, and Dutch. | English and American.

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian. | Gothic, Renaissance, & Modern.

SCULPTURE.

Classic and Oriental. | Renaissance and Modern.

ORNAMENT.

Decoration in Colour. j Architectural Ornament.

Illustrations of China and its People. By J. Thompson
Fer. G. S. Four Volumes, imperial 4to, each 3/. 3^.

In my Indian Garden. By Phil Robinson. With a Preface
by Edwin Arnold, M. A., C.S.I., &c. Crown 8vo, limp cloth, 3^. 6d.

Involuntary Voyage (An). Showing how a Frenchman who
abhorred the Sea was most unwillingly and by a series of accidents
driven round the World. Numerous Illustrations. Square crown
8vo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.

Irish Bar. Comprising Anecdotes, Bon-mots, and Biographical
Sketches of the Bench and Bar of Ireland. By J. Frederick
Flanagan, Barrister-at-law. Crown Svo, I2J. Second Edition.

yACK and yUl. By Miss Alcott. Small post Svo, cloth,
gilt edges, 5*.
Jacquemart (A.) History of the Ceramic Art. By Albert
Jacquemart. With 200 Woodcuts, 12 Steel-plate Engravings, and
1000 Marks and Monograms. Translated by Mrs. Bury Palliser.
Super-royal Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2%s.

Jimmy 's Cruise in the Pinafore. See Alcott.

JSAFIRLAND : A Ten Months' Campaign. By Frank N.
Stratified, Resident Magistrate in Kaffraria, and Commandant
of Native Levies during the Kaffir War of 1878. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, Js. 6d.

Keble Autograph Birthday Book (The). Containing on each left-hand
pag the date and a selected verse from Keble's hymns.
Imperial 8vc with 12 Floral Chromic, ornamental binding, gill edges,
15*.

Khedive's Egypt ( The) ; or, The old House of Bondage under
New Masters. By Edwin de Leon. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, 8s. 6d.

King's Rifle (The): From the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean;
Across Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the Great Zambesi Affluents,
&c. By Major Serpa Pinto. With 24 full-page and about 100
smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and 1 large one. Demy 8vo.

Kingston (W. H. GJ. See " Snow-shoes."

Child of the Cavern.

Two Supercargoes.

With Axe and Rifle.

Begum's Fortune.

Heir of Kilfinnan.

Dick Cheveley.

L

Lady Silverdale's Sweetheart. 6s. See Black.

Lenten Meditations. In Two Series, each complete in itself.
By the Rev. Claude Bosanquet, Author of "Blossoms from the
King's Garden." imo, cloth, First Series, \s.6d. ; Second Series, 2s.

Lentils. See " Food for the People."

Liesegang (Dr. Paul E.) A Manual of the Carbon Process of
Photography. Demy Svo, half-bound, with Illustrations, $s.

Life and Lette's of the Honourable Charles Sumner (The).
2 vols., royal 8vo, cloth. Second Edition, 36^.

Lindsay (W. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient
Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps and Charts. In 4 vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra. Vols. 1 and 2, 21s. ; vols. 3 and 4, 24s. each.

Lion Jack: a Story of Perilous Adventures amongst Wild Men

and Beasts. Showing how Menageries are made. By P. T. Barnum.

With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, price 6s.
Little King; or, the Taming of a Young Russian Count. By

S. Brandy. 64 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer

binding, 5-r.

Little Mercy ; or, For Better for Worse. By Maude Jeanne
Franc, Author of "Marian," "Vermont Vale," &c, &c. Small
post Svo, cloth extra, 4s. Second Edition.

Long (Col. C. Caille) Central Africa. Naked Truths of
Naked People : an Account of Expeditions to Lake Victoria Nyanza
and the Mabraka Niam-Niam. Demy Svo, numerous Illustrations, iSs.

Lost Sir Massinger. New Edition, crown 8vo } boards, coloured
wrapper, 2s.

Low's German Series —

1. The Illustrated German Primer. Being the easiest introduction

to the study of German for all beginners, is.

2. The Children's own German Book. A Selection of Amusing

and Instructive Stories in Prose. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.
Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

3. The First German Reader, for Children from Ten to

Fourteen. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner. Small post 8vo,
cloth, is. 6d.

4. The Second German Header. Edited by Dr. A. L. Meissner.

Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

Buchheim? s Deutsche Prosa. Two Volumes, sold separately : —

5. Schiller's Prosa. Containing Selections from the Prosa Works

of Schiller, with Notes for English Students, By Dr. Buchheim,
Small post 8vo, is. 6d.

6. Goethe's Prosa. Selections from the Prosa Works of Goethe,

with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim. Small
post 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Low's International Series of Toy Books. 6d. each ; or
Mounted on Linen, is.

1. Little Fred and his Fiddle, from Asbjomsen's "Norwegian

Fairy Tales."

2. The Lad and the North Wind, ditto.

3. The Pancake, ditto.

Low's Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,
bound uniformly in cloth extra, price *js. 6d.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. M. Stanley.

4. The Threshold of the Unknown Region. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, 10s. 6d.)

5. A Whaling Cruise to Baffin's Bay and the Gulf of Boothia.

By A. H. Markham.

6. Campaigning on the Oxus. By J. A. MacGahan.

7. Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. By Major W. F.

Butler, Cab.

8. Ocean to Ocean. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With

Illustrations.

9. Cruise of the Challenger. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

10. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., i$s.

11. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stanley, i vol.,

1 2s. 6d.

Low's Standard Novels. Crown 8vo, 6s. each, cloth extra.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Mathers, Authoress of
11 Coming' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c.

Three Feathers. By William Black.

A Daughter of Seth. 13th Edition. By W. Black. With
Frontispiece by F. Walker, A.R.A.

Kilmeny. A Novel. By W. Black.

In Silk Attire. By W. BLACK.

Lady Silverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.

History of a Crime : The Story of the Coup d'Etat. By Victor
Hugo.

Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.

Lorna Doone. By R. D. Blackmore. 8th Edition.

Cradock Nowell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Clara Vaughan. By R. D. Blackmore.

Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.

Erenaa ; or My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.

Innocent. By Mrs. Oliphant. Eight Illustrations.

"Work. A Story of Experience. By Louisa M. Alcott. Illustrations.
See also Rose Library.

The Afghan Knife. By R. A. Sterndale, Author of " Seonee."

A French Heiress in her own Chateau. By the author of " One
Only," "Constantia," &c. Six Illustrations.

Ninety-three. By VICTOR Hugo. Numerous Illustrations.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Pcganuc People, Their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe.

A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Cashel Holy.

Low's Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and
revised to date by C. Macedon, F. Ses., Editor of " A Guide to the
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. is.

l\/rACGAHAN (f. A.) Campaigning on the Oxus, aid the
•L-*■ Fall of Khiva. With Map and numerous Illustrations, 4th Edition,

small post 8vo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.
Macgregor (John) "Rob Roy" on the Baltic. 3rd Edition,

small post Svo, zs. 6d.
• A Thousand Miles in the u Rob Roy" Canoe, nth

Edition, small post 8vo, 2s. 6J.

Macgregor john) Description of the "Rob Roy" Canoe, with
Plans, &c , is.

The Voyage Alone in the Yawl "Rob Roy." New

Edition, thoroughly revised, with additions, small post 8vo, 5j. ;
boards, 2s. 6d.

Mackenzie (D). The Flooding of the Sahara. By Donald
Mackenzie. Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, vos. 6d.

Macquoid(Mrs.) Elinor Dryden. Crown 8vo, cloth. 6s.

Diane. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Magazine (Illustrated) for Young People. See "St. Nicholas."

Markham (C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region.
Crown 8vo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, vos. 6d.

Maury (Commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and P enlargement of his former
Work, with Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Memoirs of Madame de R emu sat, 1802 — 1808. By her Grandson,
M. Paul de Rlmusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Cashel
Holy and and Mr. John Lille. 4th Edition, cloth extra. This
work was written by Madame de Remusat during the time she
was living on the most intimate terms with the Empress Josephine,
and is full of revelations respecting the private life of Bonaparte, and
of men and politics of the first years of the century. Revelations
which have already created a great sensation in Paris. 8vo, 2 vols. 32J.

Men of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for this publication,
price is. 6d. monthly. Vols. I., II., III., and IV., handsomely
bound, cloth, gilt edges, 2$s. each.

Michael Strogoff. 10s. 6d. and $s. See Verne.

Mitford (Miss). See " Our Village."

Montaigne's Essays. See " Gentle Life Series."

My Brother Jack ; or, The Story of Whatdyecallem. Written
by Himself. From the French of Alphonse Daudet. Illustrated
by P. PHiLirpoTEAUX. Imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Is. 6d. ;
plainer binding, 5-r.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Mathers, Authoress of
"Coming' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c. I vol. edition,
crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

My Rambles in the New World. By Lucien Biart, Author of
"The Adventures of a Young Naturalist." Numerous full-page
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, "js. 6d. ; plainer
binding, $s.

Mysterious Island. By Jules Verne. 3 vols., imperial imo.
150 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. each ; elaborately bound, gilt
edges, Js. 6d. each. Cheap Edition, with some of the Illustrations,
cloth, gilt, 2s. j paper, is. each.

Data RES (Sir G. S., K. C.B) Narrative of a Voyage to the
*■ * Polar Sea during 1875-76, in H.M.'s Ships "Alert" and "Discovery."
By Captain Sir G. S. Nares, R. N. , K. C. B. , F. Res. Published by permission
of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. With Notes on
the Natural History, edited by H. W. Selden, F.G.S., C.M.Z.S.,
F. Reg. S., Naturalist to the Expedition. Two Volumes, demy 8vo, with
numerous Woodcut Illustrations, Photographs, &c. 4th Edition, 2/. 2s.

National Music of the World. By the late Henry F. Chorley.
Edited by H. G. Hewlett. Crown 8vo, cloth, 8s. 6d.

What I have to offer are not a few impressions, scrambled together in the haste
of the moment, but are the result of many years of comparison and experience." —
From the Authors " Prelude."

New Child s Play (A ). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beautifully
printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, \2s. 6d.

New Guinea (A Few Months in). By Octaves C. Stone,
F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations from the Author's own
Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth, 12s.

New Ireland. By A. M. Sullivan, M.P. for Louth. 2 vols.,
demy 8vo, 30J. Cheaper Edition, 1 vol. , crown Svo, &s. 6d.

New Novels. Crown Svo, cloth, 105. 6d. per vol. : —

Mary Anerley. By R. D. Blackmore, Author of " Ionia Doone,"

&c. 3 vols.
The Sisters. By G. Embers, Author of "An Egyptian Princess."

2 vols., imo, 2s. each.
Countess Daphne. By Rite, Authoress of " Vienne " and M Like

Dean's Kiss." 3 vols.
Sunrise. By W. Black. In 15 Monthly Parts, is, each.
Wait a Year. By Harriet Bora, Authoress of "A Young

Wife's Story." 3 vols.
Sarah de Beraug-er. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.
The Braes of Yarrow. By C. Gibbon. 3 vols.
Elaine's Story. By Maud Sheridan. 2 vols.
Prince Fortune and His Friends. 3 vols.

Noble Words and Noble Deeds. Translated from the French of
E. Muller, by Dora Leigh. Containing many Full-page Illustrations
by Philippoteaux. Square imperial 161110, cloth extra, *js. 6d,

North American Review the). Monthly, price ?.s. 6d.

Notes on Fish and Fishing. By the Rev. J. J. Manley, M.A.
With Illustrations, crown Svo, cloth extra, leatherette binding, 1 or. 6d.

Nursery Flay mates prince of ). 217 Coloured pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

f)BERAMMERGAU Passion Play. See "Art in the
^ Mountains."

Ocean to Ocean ; Sandford Fleming's Expedition through
Canada in 1872. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With Illustrations.
Revised and enlarged Edition, crown 8vo, cloth, Js. 6d.

Old-fashioned Girl. See Alcott.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Innocent. A Tale of Modern Life. By Mrs.
Oliphant, Author of "The Chronicles of Carlingford," &c, &c.
With Eight Full-page Illustrations, small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

On Horseback through Asia Minor. By Capt. Fred Burnaby,
Royal Horse Guards, Author of "A Ride to Khiva." 2 vols.,
8vo, with three Maps and Portrait of Author, 6th Edition, 38^. ;
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Cap., cloth extra.
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations, $s.

Our Village. By Mary Russell Mitford. Illustrated with
Frontispiece Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts
of Figure Subjects and Scenes. Crown 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 21s.

Our Woodland Trees. By F. G. Heath. Large post 8vo,
cloth, gilt edges, uniform with "Fern World " and " Fern Paradise,"
by the same Author. 8 Coloured Plates (showing leaves of every
British Tree) and 20 Woodcuts, cloth, gilt edges, I2J. 6d. Third
Edition.

"The book, as a whole, meets a distinct need ; its engravings are excellent, its
coloured leaves and leaflets singularly accurate, and both author and engraver
appear to have been animated by a kindred love of their subject." — Saturday
Review,

DA IN TE RS of All Schools. By Louis Viardot, and other
•*■ Writers. 500 pp., super-royal 8vo, 20 Full-page and 70 smaller
Engravings, cloth extra, 25^. A New Edition is issued in Half-crown
parts, with fifty additional portraits, cloth, gilt edges, 3U. 6d.

Pa I User (Mrs.) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period.
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs. I vol. 8vo, it. If.

One of the most readable books of the season ; permanently valuable, always interesting,
often amusing, and not inferior in all the essentials of a gift book." — Times.

• Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. 8vo, 1/. ii".

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition,
with Additions. Small post 8vo, limp cloth, $s.

Petites Lemons de Conversation et de Grammaire : Oral and
Conversational Method ; being Lessons introducing the most Useful
Topics of Conversation, upon an entirely new principle, &c. By
F. Julien, French Master at King Edward the Sixth's School,
Birmingham. Author of "The Student's French Examiner," "First
Steps in Conversational French Grammar," which see.

Phillips (L.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. 8vo,
it. us. 6d.

Photography (History and Handbook of). See Tissandier.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. By J. E. H.
Gordon, B.A. With about 200 coloured, full-page, and other
Illustrations. Among the newer portions of the work may be
enumerated : All the more recent investigations on Stria? by Scottish
De la Rue, Moulton, &c. An account of Mr. Crooked's recent
researches Full descriptions and pictures of all the modern Magnetic
Survey Instruments now used at Kew Observatory. Full accounts of
all the modern work on Specific Inductive Capacity, and of the more
recent determination of the ratio of Electric units (v). It is believed
that in respect to the number and beauty of the Illustrations, the work
will be quite unique. 2 vols , 8vo, 36^.

Picture Gallery of British Art (Tie). 3S Permanent Photographs
after the most celebrated English Painters. With Descriptive
Letterpress. Vols. I to 5, cloth extra, 18^. each. Vols. 6, 7, and 8,
commencing New Series, demy folio, 31^. 6d.

Pinto major Serpa). See " King's Rifle."

Placenta Anglo-Normannica. The Procedure and Constitution of
the Anglo-norman Courts (William I. — Richard I.), as shown by
Contemporaneous Records. With Explanatory Notes, &c. By M. M.
Bigelow. Demy 8vo, cloth, 21s.

Plutarch's Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition.
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols., 8vo, 2/. har. ; half morocco,
gilt top, 3/. Also in 1 vol., royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth extra, i8j. ;
half-bound, ils.

Morals. Uniform with Clough's Edition of " Lives of

Plutarch." Edited by Professor Goodwin. 5 vols., 8vo, 3/. 3J.

Poems of the Lier Life. A New Edition, Revised, with many
additional Poems. Small post 8vo, cloth, 5^.

Poganuc People: their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan,
and Nares.

Practical (A) Handbook to the Principal Schools of England.
By C. E. Pascoe. New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Prejevalsky (N. M.) From Kulja, across the Tian Shan to Lobo:.
Translated by E. Delmar Morgan, F.R.G.S. Demy 8vo,

with a Map. 16s.

Prince Ditto ; or, The Four-leaved Shamrock. By Fanny W.
Surrey. With 10 Full-page Fac-simile Reproductions of Original
Drawings by Helen O'Hara. Demy 4to, cloth extra, gilt, har. 6d.

Publishers' Circular (The), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 3^.

TDAMBA UD (Alfred). History of Russia, from its Origin
■* *■ to the Year 1877. With Six Maps. Translated by Mrs. L. P.
Lang. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 38J.

Recollections of Writers. By Charles and Mary Bowden
Clarke. Authors of "The Concordance to Shakespeare," &c. ;
with Letters of Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Douglas Ferrol,
and Charles Dickens ; and a Preface by Mary Cowden Clarke.
Crown 8vo, cloth, vos. 6d.

Reminiscences of the War in New Zealand. By Thomas W.
Gudgeon, Lieutenant and Quartermaster, Colonial Forces, Nez.
With Twelve Portraits. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ioj-. 6d.

Remusat (Madame de). See " Memoirs of."

Robinson (Phil). See " In my Indian Garden."

Rochefoucauld s Refections. Bayard Series. 2s. 6d.

Rogers (S.) Pleasures of Memory. See " Choice Editions of
Choice Books." zs. 6d.

Rose in Bloom. See Alcott.

Rose Library (The). Popular Literature of all countries. Each
volume, is. ; cloth, 2s. 6d. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated —

1. Sea-Gull Rock. By Jules Sandeau. Illustrated.

2. Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

3. Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to "Little Women."

4. The House on Wheels. By Madame de Stole. Illustrated.

5. Little Men. By Louisa M. Alcott. Able. vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3s. 6d.

6. The Old-fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. Double

vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3-r. 6d.

7. The Mistress of the Manse. By J. G. Holland.

8. Timothy Titcomb's Letters to Young People, Single and

Married.

9. Undine, and the Two Captains. By Baron De La Motte

Fouquet. A New Translation by F. E. Bennett. Illustrated.

10. Dray Miller's Dowry, and the Elder's Wife. By Saxe

Holm.

11. The Four Gold Pieces. By Madame Gouraud. Numerous

Illustrations.

12. Work. A Story of Experience. First Portion. By Louisa M.

Alcott.

13. Beginning Again. Being a Continuation of "Work." By

Louisa M. Alcott.

14. Picciola ; or, the Prison Flower. By X. B. Painting.

Numerous Graphic Illustrations.

15. Robert's Holidays. Illustrated.

16. The Two Children of St. Domingo. Numerous Illustrations.

17. Aunt Jo's Scrap Bag.

18. Stowe (Mrs. H, B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.
19. The Minister's Wooing.

20. Betty's Bright Idea.

21. 1 The Ghost in the Mill.

22. Captain Kidd's Money.

23. We and our Neighbours. Double vol., 2s.

24. My Wife and I. Double vol., 2s. ; cloth, gilt, p. 6cL

25. Hans Brinker ; or, the Silver Skates.

26. Lowell's My Study Window.

27. Holmes (O. W.) The Guardian Angel.

28. Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden.

The Rose Library, continued: —

29. Hitherto. By the Author of " The Gayworthys." 2 vols., is. each.

30. Helen's Babies. By their Latest Victim.

31. The Barton Experiment. By the Author of " Helen's Babies."

32. Dred. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. Double vol., 2s, Cloth,

gilt, 3s. 6d.

33. Warner (C. D.) In the Wilderness.

34. Six to One. A Seaside Story.

Russell (W. H., II. D.) The Tour of the Prince of Wales in
India. By W. H. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney
P. Hall, M.A. Super royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, $2s. 6d.;
Large Paper Edition, 84J.

Sancta Christina: a Story of the First Century. By
K -' Eleanor E. Orlebar. With a Preface by the Bishop of Winchester.
Small post 8vo, cloth extra, $s.

Scientific Memoirs: being Experimental Contributions to a
Knowledge of Radiant Energy. By John William Draper, M.D.,
LL.D., Author of "A Treatise on Human Physiology," &c. With
Steel Portrait of the Author. Demy 8vo, cloth, 473 pages, 14^.

Scott (Sir G. Gilbert) See " Autobiography."

Sea Gull Rock. By Jules Sandeau, of the French Academy.
Royal imo, with 79 Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7 s. 6d.
Cheaper Edition, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. See also Rose Library.

Seonee : Sporting in the Saturn Range of Central India, and in
the Valley of the Nerbudda. By R. A. Sterndale, F.R.G.S. 8vo,
with numerous Illustrations, 2i.r.

The Serpent Charmer : a Tale of the Indian Mutiny. By
Louis Rousselet, Author of "India and its Native Princes."
Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ;
plainer binding, $s.

Shakespeare (The Boudoir). Edited by Henry Wendell,

Carefully blackett for reading aloud ; freed from all objectionable
matter, and altogether free from notes. Price 2s. 6d. each volume,
cloth extra, gilt edges. Contents : — Vol I., Cymbeline — Merchant of
Venice. Each play separately, paper cover, is. Vol. II. , As You
Like It — King Lear — Much Ado about Nothing. Vol. III., Romeo
and Juliet — Twelfth Night — King John. The latter six plays separately,
paper cover, gd.

Shakespeare Key (The). Forming a Companion to "The
Complete Concordance to Shakespeare." By Charles and Mary
Cowden Clarke. Demy 8vo, 800 pp., 21s.

Shooting: its Appliances, Practice, and Purpose. By James
Daniel Dougall, F.S.A., F.Z.A. Author of "Scottish Field
Sports," &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra, vos. 6d.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." — Globe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Silent Hour ( The). See " Gentle Life Series."

Silver Pitchers. See Alcott.

Simon (Jules). See " Government of M. Tiers."

Six to One. A Seaside Story. imo, boards, smith

(G.) Assyrian Explorations aid Discoveries. By the late
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy
8vo, 6th Edition, iSs.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late

G. Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum.
With many Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 6th Edition, i6j-.

Snow Shoes and Canoes ; or, the Adventures of a Fur-Hunter
in the Hudson's Bay Territory. By W. H. G. Kingston. 2nd
Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Square crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, Js. 6</. ; plainer binding, $s.

Songs and Etchings in Shade and Sunshine. By J. E. G.
Illustrated with 44 Etchings. Small 4to, cloth, gilt tops, 2$s.

South Kensington Museum. Monthly is. See "Art Treasures."

Stanley (H. M.) How I Found Livingstone. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, Js. 6J. ; large Paper Edition, har. 6d.

"My Kalulu," Prince, King, and Slave. A Story

from Central Africa. Crown 8vo, about 430 pp., with numerous graphic
Illustrations, after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, 7s. 6rf.

Coomassie and Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, i6j-.

Through the Dark Continent, which see.

St. Nicholas Magazine. 4to, in handsome cover, monthly
Annual Volumes, handsomely bound, 15^. Its special features are,
the great variety and interest of its literary contents, and the beauty

and profuseness of its Illustrations, which surpass anything yet
attempted in any publication for young people, and the stories are by
the best living authors of juvenile literature. Each Part contains, on
an average, 50 Illustrations.

Story without an End. From the German of Carve, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water
Colours ; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, 7s. 6d.

square 4I0, with Illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d.

Stowe (Mrs. Beecher) Dred. Cheap Edition, boards, 2s. Cloth,
gilt edges, 3s. 6d.

« Footsteps of the Master. With Illustrations and red

borders. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Geography, with 60 Illustrations. Square cloth, 4s. 6d.

Little Foxes. Cheap Edition, is. ; Library Edition,

4-r. 6d.
Betty s Bright Idea. is.

My Wife and I ; or, Harry Henderson's History,

Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s*

Minister's Wooing. 5 \; Copyright Series, is. 6d.; cl., 2s*

Old Town Folk. 6s.; Cheap Edition, 2s. 6d.

Old Town Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, $s. 6d.

Our Folks at Poganuc. 10s. 6d.

We and our Neighbours. 1 vol., small post 8vo, 6s.

Sequel to "My Wife and I."*

Pink and White Tyranny. Small post 8vo, $s. 6d. ;

Cheap Edition, is. 6d. and 2s.

Queer Little People, is. ; cloth, 25.

Chimney Corner, is. ; cloth, u. 6d.

The Pearl of Orr's Island. Crown Svo, $r.*

Little Pussy Willow. Cap., 2s.

• See also Rose Library.

Stance mrs. Beecher) Woman in Sacred History. Illustrated
with 15 Chromolithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress.
Demy 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 25^.

Student's French Examiner. By F. Julien, Author of " Petites
Lemons de Conversation et deGrammaire" Square crown 8vo, cloth, 2s.

Studies in German Literature. By Bayard Taylor. Edited
by Marie Taylor. With an Introduction by the Hon. George
H. Broker. 8vo, cloth extra, har. 6d.

Studies in the Theory of Descent. By Dr. Aug. Weismann,
Professor in the University of Freiburg. Translated and edited by
RAPHAEL Mendoza, F.C.S., Secretary of the Entomological Society
of London. Part I. — "On the Seasonal Dimorphism of Butterflies''
containing Original Communications by Mr. W. H. Edwards, of
Coalburgh. With two Coloured Plates. Price of Part. I. (to Subscribers
for the whole work only) 8s ; Part II. (6 coloured plates), 16s. ;
Part III., 6s.

Sugar Beet (The). Including a History of the Beet Sugar
Industry in Europe, Varieties of the Sugar Beet, Examination, Soils,
Tillage, Seeds and Sowing, Yield and Cost of Cultivation, Harvesting,
Transportation, Conservation, Feeding Qualities of the Beet and of
the Pulp, &c. By L. S. Ware. Illustrated. 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

Sullivan (A. JL, M.p). See " New Ireland."

Sulphuric Acid (A Practical Treatise on the Manufacture of).
By A. G. and C. G. Lock, Consulting Chemical Engineers. With
77 Construction Plates, and other Illustrations.

Sumner (Hon. Charles). See Life and Letters.

Sunrise : A Sfurj of These Times. By William Black,
Author of "A Daughter of Heth," &c. To be published in 15
Monthly Parts, commencing April 1st, is. each.

rgeorfs Handbook on the Treatment of Wounded in War. By
Dr. Friedrich Esmarch, Professor of Surgery in the University of
Kiel, and Surgeon-general to the Prussian Army. Translated by
H. H. Glutton, B.A. Cantab, F.R.C.S. Numerous Coloured
Plates and Illustrations, 8vo, strongly bound in flexible leather, U. Ss.

Sylvan Spring. By Francis George Heath. Illustrated by
12 Coloured Plates, drawn by F. E. Hulme, F.L.S., Artist and
Author of " Familiar Wild Flowers;" by 16 full-page, and more than
100 other Wood Engravings. Large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, 12s. 6d.

H^AUCHNITZ's English Editions of German Authors.
Each volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, is. 6d. (Catalogues post

free on application.)
(B.) German and English Dictionary. Cloth, is. 6d.;

roan, 2j

- French and English. Paper, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan,

- Italian and English. Paper, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ;

roan, 2s. 6d.

Spanish and English. Paper, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan,

2s. 6d.

New Testament. Cloth, 2s. • gilt, 2s. 6d.

Taylor (Bayard). See " Studies in German Literature."

Textbook (A) of Harmony. For the Use of Schools and
Students. By the late Charles Edward Horsley. Revised for
the Press by Wesley Richards and W. H. Alcott, Small post
8vo, cloth extra, y. 6d.

Through the Dark Continent : The Sources of the Nile ; Around
the Great Lakes, and down the Congo. By Henry M. Stanley.
2 vols., demy 8vo, containing 150 Full-page and other Illustrations,
2 Portraits of the Author, and 10 Maps, 42J. Seventh Thousand.
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, with some of the Illustrations and Maps.
1 vol., 12s. 6d.

Tour of the Prince of Wales in India. See Russell,

Trees and Ferns. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt
edges, with numerous Illustrations, 3-r. 6d.

"A charming little volume' — Land and Water.

Turkestan. Notes of a Journey in the Russian Provinces of
Central Asia and the Khanates of Bokhara and Roland. By Eugene
Schuyler, Late Secretary to the American Legation, St. Petersburg.
Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols, 8vo, cloth extra, 5th Edition, 2/. 2s.

Two Friends. By Lucien Biart, Author of " Adventures of
a Young Naturalist," " My Rambles in the New World," &c. Small
post 8vo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, 'js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 55.

Two Supercargoes the) ; or, Adventures in Savage Africa.
By W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Full-page Illustrations. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, *js. 6d. ; plainer binding, $s.

T JP and Down ; or, Fifty Years' Experiences in Australia,
*J California, New Zealand, India, China, and the South Pacific.

Being the Life History of Capt. W. J. Barry. Written by Himself.

With several Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d.

3*

Jules Verne, that Prince of Story-tellers. "— Time.
BOOKS BY JULES VERNE.

Large Ckows- sto .

WORKS.

Containing 350 to 600 pp.

and from 50 to 100
full-page illustrations

In very
handsome
cloth bind -

ing, gilt

edges.

Twenty Thousand Leagues

under the Sea. Part I.

Ditto. Part II.

Hector Servadac . . .

The Fur Country . . .

From the Earth to the
Moon and a Trip round
it

Michael StrogofF, the
Courier of the Czar . .

Dick Sands, the Boy
Captain

Five Weeks in a Balloon .

Adventures of Three Englishmen
and Three
Russians

Around the "World in
Eighty Days

A Floating City . . . .

The Blockade Runners

Dr. Ox's Experiment . .

Master Zacharias . . .

A Drama in the Air . .

A Winter amid the Ice

The Survivors of the
"Chancellor". . . .

Martin Paz

The Mysterious Island,
3 vols. :—

Vol. I. Dropped from the
Clouds

Vol. II. Abandoned . .

Vol. III. Secret of the Island


The Child of the Cavern .

The Begum's Fortune .

The Tribulations of a
Chinaman

s. d.

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6

10 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

22 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 6

7 G

7 6

In "

plainer

binding,

plain

edges.

s. d.









3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 6

3 G

10 6

3 6

3 6

3 G

3 6

Containing the whole of the
text with some illustrations.

In cloth
binding, gilt

edges, Coloured Boards,
smaller I

5. d.

5 3 6

3 6

| 2 vols., 2&
I, each.






f 2

I

r 2
i 2

G







2 vols., Is. each,

2 vols., Is. each.
2 vols Is. each.

s. d.















2 vols. Is. each.











Celebrated Travels and Travellers. 3 vols. Demy 8vo, 600 pp.,
upwards of 100 full-page illustrations, 12s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 14s. each : —

(1) The Exploration of the World.

(2) The Great Navigators of the Eighteenth Century.

(3) The Explorers of the Nineteenth Century. (In the Press.)

JJ/ALLER rev. C. H) The Names on the Gates of Pearl,
** and other Studies. By the Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Second
edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the
Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. Part I., The Grammar. Small post 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Wanderings in the Western Land. By A. Gendarmes Vivian,
M. P. With many Illustrations from Drawings by Mr. Bierstadt
and the Author, and 3 Maps. 1 vol., demy Svo, cloth extra, i8x.

War in Bulgaria : a Narrative of Personal Experiences. By
Lieutenant-general Valentine Baker Pasha. Maps and
Plans of Battles. 2 vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 2/. 2s.

Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden. Rose Library, is.

Pack-log Studies. Boards, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s.

In the Wilderness. Rose Library, is.

Mummies and Moslems. Svo, cloth, i2.f.

Weaving. See " History and Principles."
Whitney (Mrs. A. D. T.) Hitherto. Small post 8vo, 3s. 6d.
and 2s. 6d.

Sights and Insights. 3 vols., crown 8vo, 31;. 6d.

Summer in Leslie Goldthwaite 's Life. Cloth, 35. 6d.

Wills, A Pew Hints on Proving, without Professional Assistance.

By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised with Forms

of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Cap. 8vo, cloth limp, is.
With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies. By W. H. G.

Kingston. With numerous Illustrations, square crown 8vo, cloth

extra, gilt edges, Js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5.5-.

Witty and Humorous Side of the English Poets (The). With a

variety of Specimens arranged in Periods. By Arthur H. Elliott.

I vol., crown 8vo, cloth, 10s. 6d.
Wolsey (C. D., LL.D.) Introduction to the Study of International

Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical

Studies. 5th Edition, demy 8vo, swords
of Wellington : Maxims and Opinions, Sentences and

Reflections of the Great Duke, gathered from his Despatches, Letters,

and Speeches (Bayard Series). 2s. 6d.
Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell. 6s. Third

and Cheaper Edition.

Pontoon:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,
CROWN BUILDINGS 1S8, FLEET STREET.

\

V

1MB

OF THE

U N Diversity

Of alli Noise

Ml

R9lsa.

AN ACCOUNT OF

THE WRECK OF THE SAILING SHIP,
WALDEBSHARE,"

FROM THE NARRATIVE OF MR. WILLIAM LEE,
SECOND MATE.

W. Clark Russell,

AUTHOR OF "THE WRECK OF THE GROSVENOR," ETC.

IN THREE Volumes.
VOL. II.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, Searle & RIYIXGToN

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1880.

(All rights reserved )

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,

STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS,

r.A

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER Pace

I. The Death of Captain. Flanders . 1

II. Cape Horn . . . 105

III. The Wateh-L<m;<;ei> Brig . . 1-U

IV. The Lonely Deep . . 193

V. The Fiue-Kaft . . . 238

VI. The Survivors of the " Waldershare " 271

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sailorssweethear02russ

Chapter I.

THE DEATH OF CAPTAIN FLANDERS.

We took the trades in lat. 28° N., aucl
bowled merrily along with the strong,
steady breeze well on the quarter, our
studding-sails expanded like the wings of
a bird, the white trade-clouds sweeping
across a windy blue sky, a young moon
shining over us at night, and the constellations
familiar to the eyes of all northern
dwellers verging farther and farther towards
the horizon astern. These trades are glorious
winds, and give the sailor nothing to do
in his watch below but lay in his bunk and
listen to the buzz of the froth at the bows,
and the humming of the canvas.

VOL. II. B

The captain spent much of his time in
his cabin, and this gave me many opportunities
of being with Nelly, and many a
long hour did she and I spend together
talking, as we leaned over the ship's side
and watched the foam spattering past ; so
that these winds brought us the happiest
days we had yet spent, and our hearts
were as gay as love and health, and the
glorious panorama of the swirling ship, and
the leaping seas, and the sunshine stooping
to thee flying clouds by day, and the stars
shining like drops of molten silver among
the wool white shapes which ran over them
by night, could make us. Our trysting-place,
when I was not officer of the watch,
and when the skipper was out of sight, and
when the night had fallen so as to hide us
from the eyes of the men forward, was to
leeward of the poop, just forward of the
quarter-boat, where the shadow of it made
a deeper gloom ; and there very often little
Thomas would join us, and talk about his
wife and the brand-new furniture he had put
into the lodgings for her, and the savings he
had placed in the bank to her name.

It was pleasant to listen to the gentle
voice of this thorough-bred sailor and genial-hearted
little man when he talked of his
courtship, and how she had at first refused
him, and how he went another voyage and
then proposed again, and was accepted ; and
how he had carried her to the West-end of
London to choose a fine dress to be married
in, and how, after all the fitting and trimming
and trouble, it never arrived in time,
and she had to be married in a plain dress,
and how she had cried with vexation, and
how he had turned to and cheered her up.
She was a long way astern of him now, he
would say ; but the end of his tow-rope
was in her hands : he knew the way home,
and would get the scent by waiting a bit.

Indeed, he grew mightily fond of Nelly —
much because she never seemed tired of
listening to his yarns about his wife and
asking questions about her — and he was
with her as often as he could find an opportunity.
He got to dress at last expressly
for her and for nobody else, for Madam
Espinosa laughed at him in her sleeve,
and he knew it, and hated her for it, ashe

had a right to do. He had as many
suits of clothes in his chest as all hands
put together could have mustered, and
was every day appearing in something new.
As for his waistcoats, I never saw the like
of them for number and variety : they were
mostly velvet, and of different colours,
chiefly presents from his wife and her
relations, and a's he appeared in them oneby
one, so Nelly admired them, and with a
sincerity that gave him great happiness.

However, there was a cloud on the little
man that was daily growing gloomier, and
it filled him with uneasiness. This was the
captain's behaviour to him. Latterly, it
had grown so marked, that I used to think
the skipper's eccentricity had taken this
form for a change, and that he was done
with his spirits in order to convert Thomas
into an illusion.

A few days after we had taken the trades
the chief mate joined me on the poop,
although it was his watch below, and said
to me, " Lee, what on earth is the cause of
Captain Flanders' manner ? He was offensive
enough, in a quiet way, before we

sighted the Yankee barque, but from the
hour we left her astern his behaviour has
grown hideous. At dinner to-day I happened
to have my eyes on him — although,
God knows, I was thinking of anything
else — when he bellowed out to me to know
why I stared at him ; and then addressing
himself to Mr. Black, he said, ' Is it not
extraordinary that my chief officer should
go on watching me as though he had a
pistol in his pocket, and was only waiting
until I looked another way to let fly at my
head ? ' This, of course, made the Scotchman
squint at me as though I really meant
to assassinate the captain ; though Madam
Espinosa said, ' A monkey may look at a
king, mayn't he, captain ? ' with a stress
upon monkey, and then giggled as if she
would choke. If I am to be affronted in
this way, as good as called a murderer to
my face, insulted by one passenger and distrusted
by another, I shall give up. I shall
tell the captain I'm done. Does he think
I sneaked on board through a scupper-hole ?
does he take me for a long-sherman ? Let
him teach me something I don't know, and
his cook shall pull my nose."

He was purple with rage, although he had

begun quietly enough : his Welsh blood wis
like a kettle full of hot water ; a very little
tire set it boiling. At the same time it was
impossible to miss the bewilderment that
lay under his passion ; indeed, he was not
only puzzled to know what he had done
to make the captain hate him, but he
saw himself being gradually drawn into a
muddle that was likely to end in doing him
serious professional injury, and whilst he
could not tell how on earth he was drifting
into the danger, he could not see how to
check his progress.

I had no consolation to offer him. My
frankness at the beginning of the voyage
had rather frightened me on reflection, and

1 did not like to say what I honestly believed,
that the captain was growing madder
every day. The mere fact that nobody
seemed to notice this but Nelly and myself
was a hint to me to be extremely cautious
how I gave my conviction expression. Whatever
the Spinosa might be, Mr. Black
was no fool, slow and thick as he was ; and
that he did not seem to notice the captain's

behaviour any more than Mr. Thomas was
able to interpret it correctly, was proof tome
that up to the present moment no
significance was attached to it ; in short,
that if Mr. Black and the others took notice
of his manner, they merely reckoned it as a
little odd and that was all.

And why not ? Whatever might have
been whispered, there was not a man in

the Waldershare who would have cared to

>

sincerely admit that lie believed her commander,
who had absolute disposal of the
ship and the lives of everybody in her, who
was entirely beyond control, and could do
as he pleased, was mad. So far he had
navigated the vessel well ; he had proved
himself a capable seaman ; the only distinct
indication of his madness that he
had yet given outside the hints on which
I had grounded my distrust, was his behaviour
at Lanyon's funeral; but the passengers
had not witnessed this ; I do not
think a word was said about it to them,
and I have already shown what effect it
produced forward.

Therefore all I thought it advisable to

say to Mr. Thomas was to recommend him
to exercise patience, and to believe that, as
the captain's prejudice was entirely without
foundation, it must pass. But he shook
his head.

No," said he, "it w r on't pass; and as
to exercising patience, w T ho the deuce can
stand being hazed at table for raising one's
eyes ? That idiot Black avoided me just
now in the cuddy. Can it be possible that
Captain Flanders wants to raise a scare over
the Yankee mutiny, and to imply that T —
a gentleman, an officer in the British mercantile
marine, with a captain's certificate
in my desk at home — that I am capable of
causing insubordination among a crew? "

In my own mind I thought the captain
mad enough to believe this, and, indeed,
as I had observed that his manner to
Thomas had grown more pronounced since
the Yankee adventure, and Thomas had
iilso noticed the circumstance, the little
man's suggestion, though offered in a spirit
of the most contemptuous scepticism, struck
me somewhat as a revelation. However,
no more was said between us at that time,

and for some clays Mr. Thomas made no
further reference to the captain, nor did I
gather that any exceptional conduct had
given him new cause for complaint.

We lost the trades at 3° 17' north of the
line, having made the whole distance from
Gravesend in twenty-seven clays. This
brought us to Wednesday, the 23rd of July.

We were now in the calm latitudes, the
equatorial belt of baffling catspaws and
glassy seas. At noon we w T ere shadowless ;
the sun stood right over the mainmast, and
all the horizon swam and quivered in a haze
of heat ; the ocean lay like a surface of
quicksilver, along which the swell, breaking
into long lines of golden fire under the sun,
ran languidly, and the paint on the shipside
bubbled into blisters, and the pitch in
the seams of the deck was as soft as wax
before a fire, and stuck to the soles of one's
boots, while the woodwork that lay exposed
to the sun burnt the flesh of the hand that
rested a moment upon it. The trade-wind
failed us in the morning watch, and before
noon we lay roasting in a dead calm. The
cuddy was like an oven, and the wind-sail

did nothing for us, for there was no breeze to
swell it; the awning gave some protection
to the head, but even under it the deck
was as hot as though there were flames
beneath ; the water was as transparent as
glass, and by getting into the gig that was
slung astern and looking down, one could
see the rudder to the very bottom of it,
and the copper quivering with a yellow
sheen deep in the white transparency. The
tar lay all moist upon the shrouds and back-stays,
and blackened the hand that touched
them; the sails hung bleached to the
whiteness of snow, and looked a hundred
years old; the heat of the galley drove
the cook into the shadow of the top-gallant
forecastle, and the smoke of the chimney
went straight up the foremast in a blue line ;
the pigs under the long-boat lay, with
heaving bellies, on their sides, the hens in
the coops squatted in a fluff of feathers
with their beaks open, and wherever a
shadow was cast upon the deck, there were
men sitting with their feet bare, their shirts
wide open, and their faces streaming with
perspiration.

All that day not a caspar darkened the
water, not a brace was touched.

At last the sun went down, and we watched
with relief the vast orb, throbbing red as
blood, sink behind the clear unbroken line
of the horizon, without a cloud to soften his
crimson fires, whilst in the glassy surface
of the water the reflection lay in a purple
band, the lowermost point of which seemed
to stretch within a hundred feet of the
ship, though, as the orb gradually veered
lower and lower, this magnificent stream
of light upon the sea shortened away from
us and ran flashing towards the horizon,
as if, indeed, it were a tangible belt of gold
which the sun was trailing across the bosom
of the deep, and dragging away with it
behind the world of waters, until the last
fragment of the sun vanished, and with
it its glowing reflection, and then there
shot up out of the horizon into the red
sky long spikes of dazzling dark-golden
light, the extremities of which could be
followed by the eye into the very zenith,
whilst the reflection of these fiery lines in
the sea was so clear and sharp that the

whole of the red west above and below the
water-line was barred by a huge flaming
wheel that faded quickly, until nothing of
all this magnificence remained. but a slight
hectic upon a deep-blue ground, upon which
the stars flashed as bright and round as
little moons.

Some hands were called aft to furl the
awning; they came along on their naked
feet, and made no noise ; we spoke almost
in a whisper, for the darkness had followed
the blaze in the west so quickly as to fill
us with a kind of awe, and all upon the
deep lay so great a hush that the mind by
instinct caught the silence, as it were, by
imitating it.

"Will," exclaimed Nelly, coming over to
where I stood and speaking very softly,
come with me ; I want to show you something."


I followed her to the side of the poop,
where she had been standing looking into
the water, whilst the men were furling the
awning.

What is it?" I asked.

See there ! " she said, pointing to the

water just under the quarter-boat, the
shadow of which was noticeable.

I looked and saw an outline of blue light
close against the surface, so faint that it
was almost impossible to tell the shape of
it ; but on a sudden it began to move. The
outline sparkled and took the form of a
great fish of immensely solid and rounded
proportions at the head, tapering away aft
into a tail, the vibration of which was
distinctly visible in the sheen of the phosphorus,
as the ghostly, silent outline passed
away towards the bows of the ship.

"What is it, Will?" asked Nelly in a
frightened voice. " That is the second one
that has passed in a few minutes."

A shark, Nell. Look ! yonder 's another ;
there — a little this side the reflection of that
large star."

What dreadful creatures, and how
quiet ! "

Just then a fiddle began to scrape forward,
and a man sang the first bar or two of
a song; but the accompaniment was evidently
not to his taste, for I heard a little
wrangle, and presently the fiddle struck up

again ; but this time the singer accompanied
himself ; and twanged the fiddle-strings with
his fingers instead of scraping them with
the bow, so that the notes were much softer,
or at all events harmonized better with the
singer's voice, which was a very sweet,
plaintive tenor. The singer was a Norwegian,
and the song was one of the ballads
of his country, I believe, though what it
was about I am sure I don't know ; but the
air was pretty, and the fellow sang it with
taste and feeling ; his voice rang upon the
night with a kind of moan in it like the
notes of a flute, and whilst he sang the ship
would now and again heave lazily, and set
the lofty sails gently flapping, whilst the
wash of the water alongside fell upon the ear
like a sob.

The song was a long one — most sailors'
songs are, for the verses are nothing to
them ; they only care about the tune, and
will repeat the same w r words over and over
again — and Nelly and I, and indeed all
hands, were listening to it with great interest,
when the captain called me. He was standing
near the skylight, and I went up to him.

"I can't stand that song, Mr. Lee ; it
irritates me. I never heard such a hauling.
Go forward and stop it, but don't say
you got your orders from me. It is never
my wish to interfere with the men's harmless
enjoyments. But stop that song and at
once."

He turned hurriedly and walked aft to the
wheel. I went along the main deck and
hailed the forecastle in a quiet voice.

Who's that singing?"

The singer immediately ceased.

It's Petersen, sir," said one of the men.

Why, Petersen," I sung out, " that's a
very pretty song, my lad ; but can't you give
us something more lively? The ladies say
it's too dark to listen to such a song as
that."

Some of the men laughed.

Billy," cried a voice, " give us * Tommy's
got a wooden leg; ' that's a regular A 1 song,
and sure to please the ladies."

Whereupon some one else proposed
another song, and in a minute they were nil
calling out for different songs, all to please
the ladies. However, I had put a stopper

on the Norwegian, and having accomplished
my object I returned to the poop. When
the captain caught sight of me he again
called me to him. He had taken his stand
close against the quarter-boat, well out of
earshot of the wheel, and in the shadow of
the mizzen-mast. Nelly and the other passengers
were together on the opposite side
of the deck, so that where the skipper stood
was secluded enough. I noticed this, and
that is why I have set it down ; for it struck
me, from the posture he had assumed and
the spot he had stationed himself in, that he
had something important to say.

Have you stopped the men's singing
altogether? " he asked.

I suspect I have made them coy, sir, by
telling them that the ladies are listening,"
I replied, laughing.

Where is Mr. Thomas ? "

In his cabin, I believe, or else on the
quarter-deck. I have not seen him since
he went below."

You and he are pretty good friends, are
you not ? " said he in a soft way, and speaking
almost in a whisper.

Yes, sir; I like Mr. Thomas very well
indeed," I answered, a good deal struck by
the manner in which he asked his question.

Does he ever talk to you about me, Mr.
Lee ? " he inquired blandly, and with a note
of kindness in his voice.

Why, yes, sometimes, sir," I answered,
pausing a moment before I answered ; for I
had now made up my mind to keep the lead
going, as I had no idea into what channel
he might make me drift.

"Sometimes only, eh? — not very often,
Mr. Lee ? And pray, what is the nature of
his talk — the general character of it ? Think.
How does he usually express himself about
me?"

Really, sir, I am unable to tax my
memory to that extent. We have often
talked together, and no doubt your name
has been mentioned; but I cannot pretend
to remember what was said by either of us."

He remained silent for some moments,
and I heard him tapping the deck very softly
with his foot.

Have you ever noticed him talking to
the men, Mr. Lee ? " he asked presently.

V fL. IT. C

Never beyond giving them instructions,
sir."

I thought I saw him go forward about a
quarter of an hour ago. Are you sure you
did not notice him somewhere about when
you went along the main-deck?" he asked
sternly.

Quite sure," I replied.

For Heaven's sake ! " he exclaimed in a
low voice, broken with agitation, and glancing
up and down the deck, " don't let your
sympathy as a shipmate stand between that
man and me. It is your duty, Mr. Lee, to
answer my questions truthfully, and to aid
me in immediately checking any influence
that is likely to bring this ship into
peril."

I know what my duty is, sir, and I trust
that you have already seen enough of my
character to judge that I do not need any
appeal of the kind you have thought fit
to make to me to discharge my duty," I
exclaimed, with a warmth I afterwards regretted,
remembering that I was addressing
a man who was not responsible for his words ;
but if you mean to suggest that the chief

officer is likely to act in such a way as to
bring this ship into peril, I can only solemnly
assure you that you are greatly mistaken,
and that your suspicions do an excellent
seaman and an honourable man a very
grievous injury."

He bent forward to look me close in the
face, but not being sure of his intention, I
drew back ; on which he reared himself up
and shook his head several times. Father
from the wish to serve Thomas by getting
to know more of the captain's notions about
him than from mere curiosity, I asked —

May I inquire, sir, what Mr. Thomas
has done to make you think him capable of
acting treacherously ? "

He held up his finger, but he never answered
me. Whether he meant to convey
some reply by the motion of his arm I do
not know ; but as the gesture was altogether
without meaning it was not a little alarming,
and I watched him closely, ready for
his next move.

Suddenly putting his hand against his
left side, he exclaimed, " Feel here, Mr.
Lee."

I hesitated, for it seemed a sort of liberty
to take ; bnt he cried out with a sudden
passion, " Feel, sir — feel here, as I order
you."

I put my hand to his side and then drew
away.

What did you feel ? " he inquired, in a
low, trembling voice.

Something very much like a revolver,"
I replied.

"Is it customary," said he, in a smooth
voice, " for the commander of a ship like
the Waldersliare to carry loaded fire-arms
about with him ? You have been some
years at sea — answer my question."

"I don't think it is, sir."

Why r , then, do I carry this revolver
about with me all day and sleep with it
under my pillow at night ? "

I'm sure I don't know, Captain
Flanders."

Because," he answered, breathing short
and bending so close to me that his breath
fell warm on my cheek, " I have been forewarned
that my life will be attempted, and
the name of the man has been given me."

I was so astonished and confounded by
his earnestness, that I may as well honestly
declare I believed, for the moment, he was
speaking the truth.

Do you really mean to say," I cried,
that there is some one aboard this ship
who is waiting for an opportunity to ' '

"Hush!" he whispered, and he broke
into a low laugh, the first laugh I had heard
come from his lips* since we had left the
docks. If ever madness spoke in a laugh
it spoke here ; the sound brought me to
instantly, and I understood the dangerous
delusion that possessed him.

Keep what has passed between us a
secret — mind ! not a word ! " he exclaimed.
"But," he continued, lowering his tone into
a whisper that I had to strain my ear to
catch, " you may tell Mr. Thomas, if you
like, that I am not only forewarned, but
forearmed, Mr. Lee. Do you follow me ? —
forearmed. Say, if you like, that I made
you put your hand upon it, that my bear!
beats under it, and that with a movement
of my wrist I can command six lives ! "

He walked away to the end of fcbe poop,

and stood looking with his face over the
stern.

What I had heard and discovered made
me so restless and agitated that I scarcely
knew what I was at. I paced about the
forward end of the poop, watching the man's
motionless figure with an anxiety so keen
that I believed it to be an inspiration, and
imagined that presently he would play us
or himself some devilish trick. On one side
of the poop were the passengers, a dark
group, Madam Espinosa's laugh sounding
often, while her husband cackled to Mr.
Black, whose gutturals were as frequent as
madam's silly laughs. A little to the right
and beyond them stood the man at the
wheel, with the haze of the binnacle falling
upon him ; and on the other side was the
figure of Captain Flanders gazing and
gazing astern without a move of his body,
whilst the slow heave of the breathless sea
made the stars lazily slide up and down
past him. I thought if the group on the
port side of the deck only knew what was
in the mind of that silent form, the laugh
and the cackle, and the guttural " echo ! "

and " els ! " would take another and a very
different note.

Had we carried a ship's doctor I should
have told him what had passed, and gone
to work to secure the captain before he did
any mischief. But as matters stood I felt
altogether helpless. If I spoke to the
passengers I should probably frighten them
without doing any good; even though I
succeeded in making them believe me.
If I went among the crew I could not be
sure of their support. Suppose some of
them should come aft and tell the captain
Iliad called him mad, and had asked them
to help me to secure him, and he, with the
cunning I was bound to believe his madness
must give him, should persuade them that
I and Mr. Thomas were in a conspiracy to
wrest the command of the ship out of his
hands ? He had only to order the chief
mate and me into irons, and the thing
would be done. There would then be no
check upon him; he might navigate che
ship anyhow; I should not be at hand forgive
Nelly any help if she needed it ; and
my own chances in life, in a professional

sense, would be ruined — that is, if the ship
under his sole charge ever lived to arrive
in port.

These thoughts hurried through my mind
as I paced about the deck, and they will
fairly serve to lay the helplessness of my
position before you.

After standing for at least ten minutes
looking over the stern, the captain crossed
to the passengers and exchanged some sentences
with them ; he then gave his arm to
Nelly and walked to and fro the poop with
.her. The sky was a marvellous panorama
of stars, covered with a brilliant dust from
horizon to horizon, among which the stars
of the first magnitude seemed to hang low,
and dropped flakes of silver into the water.
Down in the north-west there was a continuous
glancing of sheet-lightning. The
heavy dew cooled the atmosphere somewhat,
but the men preferred the deck to
the hot forecastle, faintly lighted by the
smoky oil-lamp that flickered under a
blackened beam, and la* in groups here and
there, fanned by the foresail as it idly
flapped to the roll of the ship. " Hilloo ! "

I exclaimed, " what's this ? " as something
clawed the hind part of my legs. It was the
captain's dog, but not being in the mood for
caresses of that kind, I gave him a gentle
kick under the rail and drove him aft.
Every roll of the vessel brought the dew
down like rain out of the sails. Was there
never to be any more wind in this part of
the world ? And I looked all round the
horizon for any flaw or tremor among the
star-flakes in the water. Presently, my
sight going into the south-west, I thought
I saw a light down there that looked but a
yellow sickly star, if star it were. I kept
my eyes on it, and the passengers being-silent
for a few moments, and the sails hanging
motionless, I heard a kind of pulsing in
the air, and understanding the meaning of
the sound, I dived for the glass.

There's a steamer's light right abeam of
us, sir ! " I sung out.

The captain stopped, with Nelly on his
arm, looked, and then answered, " I see her,
sir," and resumed his walk.

Shall we show a light ? " I called. " She
appears to be heading right for us, sir."

"Ay, show a light at both ends of the
ship," he answered, walking all the time
and speaking as if I had no right to bother
him.

A lantern was swung in the fore-rigging
and another on the gaff-vang, so that the
coming vessel might know the length of ns,
and how w T e lay. I believe she had not
seen us before, but no sooner were our lights
exposed, than she starboarded her helm to
pass under our stern. Until she was close
to we could not make out what sort of vessel
she was, and then there loomed up within
a few cables' length of our quarter a huge
black man-of-war as big as an island, shrugged,
with immensely long yards, a squab
fat funnel just before the mainmast, and a
bow as high as a cliff, curving out with
a stem that subtended into the water at an
angle like a beach. All w 7 as as still as death
aboard of her ; no smoke came from her
funnel ; the only light I could make out
was a lantern as brilliant as a bull's-eye
slung half-way up her foremast ; all that
could be heard was the splash of water from
the discharge-pipes and the hollow throbbing

of her machinery, and the seething of foam
as she tore up the sea with her stem. The
stars went shooting through her rigging as
she passed, like a constellation of fire-flies
playing over her spars and among her
shrouds. Lofty as was the Walder share, I
doubt if her royal-masthead reached halfway
as high as the main-topmast of this
war ship. The gloom and the starlight probably
magnified the proportions of the vessel
in our eyes, but as she loomed past, the vast
shape, urged by a power invisible and, but
for the hollow vibrations of the engines, inaudible,
with her hull blotting out the stars
high above the horizon, and her masthead
soaring into the gloom beyond the reach of
the sight, she looked the biggest vessel in
the world, and the creation of a race of
giants. What countryman she was, whence
and where bound to, I don't know ; she was
steaming about eight knots, heading N.E.
and by E., and she passed away into the
darkness of the horizon like a phantom ship,
not a sign of life aboard, and her engines
sounding as though she breathed heavily as
she went.

Captain Flanders, never letting go of
Nelly, stopped walking a few moments to
look at the big ship as she went by, and
then started afresh. I began to think that
my sweetheart must have had enough of
walking by this time, and watched them.
What was he telling her ? that a spirit had
warned him his life was in danger, and that
he carried a loaded pistol in his pocket ? He
was mighty earnest — so much I could tell
by the tone of his voice — and his hand incessantly
sawed the air, and once or twice
he stopped and pointed upwards, as though
he were explaining the names of the stars to
her. At last he made a long halt close to
the quarter-boat, just where he had spoken
to me, and there they stood for about five
minutes ; after which, and rather suddenly,
Nelly walked away, advanced a few paces
towards me, stopped with an air of irresolution,
and finally went below.

I wondered what all this could signify.
In a few minutes the steward rang his bell
in the cuddy to announce that grog was on
the table. The Spinosa and Mr. Black,
however, stayed under deck but for a very

short while ; indeed, the cabin was as hot
as an oven, and the smell of the warm
varnish, coupled with the hundred indescribable
odours which creep up out of the hold
of a ship in sweltering weather, made the
cuddy extremely unpleasant. Espinosa
lighted a cigar almost as long as his arm,
and getting a flag for a pillow, laid himself
flat on the deck ; Mr. Black dozed over a
large meerschaum ; and Madam Espinosa
entertained herself with her own thoughts,
occasionally asking questions in Spanish of
her husband, who sometimes muttered si, si,
and sometimes made no reply.

On a sudden I felt a little air, and glancing
up found the main-topsail aback.

Hands aft to the braces ! " I sung out.
Wheel there, how's her head ? "

East-half-north, sir."

Man the port main-braces — put your
helm aport — let go those starboard mizzen-topsail
braces and shiver the sail, my lads."

In a few moments the ship felt the light
breeze, and was heading her course with che
yards hard against the starboard rigging.
The sound of the lip, lip, lipping of the

water alongside was delightful after the
stagnation of the last twelve hours. The
surface of the water was all blurred and
darkened by the warm sw T feet wind, but the
night was quite cloudless, and one looked in
vain for any place for the wind to come from.
Here was a breeze that might carry us across
the equator into the south-east trades, and
any way it was a slant to make the most
of. The worst part of these latitudes, worse
even than the intolerable heat, is the having
to watch for every draught of air that flutters
the clog vane, and box the yards about to
every shadow that creeps along the water
in order to sneak across the Line. So I
boarded the main-tack, triced out the bowlines,
set the crossjack and every fragment
of fore and aft canvas until the ship was a
great cloud of sail. The water was now T full
of fire alongside, and from under our counter
the large bubbles sped away, buzzing merrily,
every sail was drawing and silent, and the
ship was as still as if she floated down a
river.

I had thought the songs of the men
would bring the captain on deck, but he

did not make his appearance. Presently
the ropes were all coiled over their pins,
and the men gone forward. Seeing a
shadow thrown on to the quarter-deck, I
looked over the poop-rail, and there stood
Nelly.

Is Captain Flanders up there?" she
asked in a whisper. I said no, and she
came up. "I have something to tell you,
Will," said she, with an embarrassed air.
It is very absurd ; and yet it has vexed
me, too — more than it need do, you will
say."

What is it, Nelly? "

"You will scarcely believe it," she whispered,
taking my hand, and keeping her
head bent. " Captain Flanders has asked
me to marry him."

What ! asked you to marry him ? "

Yes, dear," said she, controlling herself
and speaking quietly. "He said I was
the only woman he had ever met who appeared
to understand his views on religion ;
and then he exclaimed, with his voice all
of a tremble, ' Miss Maitland, will you be
my wife'"

"The devil take him! And what did

3 7 ou say? "

For some moments I really didn't know
ili at to say, Will. Knowing him to be
crazy, I felt rather frightened. Then I
thought to myself, ' If I answer him too
plainly, he will suspect there is something
between Will and me,' and I saw that I
should act unwisely in doing or saying anything
likely to arouse his jealousy. So I
answered — but I don't really believe he
heard all my answer, for I mumbled my
words terribly ; my heart beat so, Will !- -
that his proposal had taken me by surprise,
and I said that, whatever my inclinations
might be, I should have to consult my
friends in England before I could give him
an answer. And so I begged him not to
refer to the subject until we arrived home."

Poor wretch ! that was a caulker,
Nell," said I, laughing. " And has he
promised? "

Yes; I made him promise on his honour.
I am horribly annoyed, Will. It is simply
the result of my being too amiable — listening
to his nonsense with a grave face when

Madam Espinosa would have burst out
laughing. Yet I thought that was the
right policy for your sake. I wanted to
make a friend of him, but not a lover — oh
dear, Will, not a lover."

What was he talking about before he
asked you to marry him ? He has been
dragging you up and down the deck for
nearly an hour."

Quite an hour, and my legs ache dreadfully."


« I'll fetch a chair "

No, dear, I prefer standing. I can run
down these steps should he come out of his
cabin, for he must not see us together now,
Will — I mean, much together. Did you
ask what he talked about ? I scarcely
know ; it was chiefly about spirits, I believe ;
but I was thinking about other things at the
time, and what little I had heard was put
out of my head by the fright he gave me
when he asked me to marry him."

Did he tell you that his life was in
danger?"

No. What do you mean ? Is it ? "

No more than mine is, dear ; but I have

VOL. II. D

discovered to-night enough to convince me
that he is dangerously mad."

Because he has asked me to marry
him?" she exclaimed, laughing

I wish that were all ; but ask no questions,
Nell."

"What an adventure! what an adventure
to tell Phoebe ! " she said, with something
in her voice betwixt a laugh and a
sigh. " Yet who could help feeling sorry
for him ? When he talks rationally I could
not imagine a better-bred man. The submissive
manner in which he received my
answer and gave me his promise was really
touching. He released my arm instantly,
and as I left him he bowed to me with
great dignity and gentleness."

She took the w r manly view of him, and I
loved her all the better for her true-hearted
sympathy. I was sorry enough for him too,
God knows ; for what is there under heaven
more dreadful than the spectacle of a mind
unhinged, with glancing of rationality
which only serve to deepen and darken the
contrast of the horrible disease that is hourly
eating out of the soul the instincts and

elements of responsibility which give it its
manliness and beauty ? But I also thought
of him as the captain of a large ship, with
forty-five human beings committed to his
discretion and judgment, every day bringing
with it some new problem of navigation and
seamanship that demanded a cool and
healthy head for its solution ; I thought, I
say, of the tremendous responsibilities imposed
upon him by his position as commander
; and then I considered that he was
mad and ought not to hold his post, but
that I could see no w r ay of procuring his
removal without running a risk that might
prove professionally fatal to me ; so that
these reflections deadened my sympathy
greatly, and made me think of him with
another mood than that in which Nelly
spoke of him. As to his avowal to Nelly,
her account of it had indeed annoyed meas
was perhaps natural. My first movement
was one of resentment that he should have
dared to offer marriage to my sweetheart ;
but so changeful or mingled are our passions,
that his very avowal, when I came to consider
it, made me more sorry for him than

I had been before, and witness his madness
in a sadder light. This poor fellow had fallen
in love with Nelly, not knowing that she
was betrothed to me ; and I found it a kind
of unconscious flattery, and it touched me.
His madness would make him feel a lonely
man, and it shocked me to think how it
must drive him further and further away
from all sympathy with his sane and natural
desire for love, and leave him finally an
object of fear and compassion, and to tortures
of mind beyond the reach of any
healthy imagination to conceive.

After Nelly had left me I paced about the
poop lost in thought, and scarcely noticed
the departure of the passengers to their
cabins, until, on looking about me, I found
myself alone. The captain's dog lay on the
deck near the wheel, and I stood stroking it
with my foot for some moments, watching
the reflection of a large star as the water
ran over it in little spaces of foam, which
glanced and vanished like the play of light
upon silver threads. It was now hard upon
eleven o'clock, which left me another hour's
watch to stand ; the breeze had slightly

freshened, the stars had a sharper light, and
the bluish glint in their lustre made me
hope this wind was likely to hold, and the
surface of the water was now very dark,
though the phosphorus sparkled brightly
all around the ship, and the horizon was a
clear black line against the sky.

I stood near the wheel watching the
compass, anxious that the wind should
come more free ; for, as it was, the ship with
her spars all erect was looking up almost
right into it ; half the main-royal was aback,
and the crossjack bowline was hauled so
taut that the bolt-rope made a sharp angle.
The ship was jammed in the wind ; still she
frothed a pretty wake, and kept the quiet
sea slapping her on the weather bow; and
as I watched how swiftly the foam of some
little wave breaking over against the quarter
slipped away and was swallowed up in the
gloom before its froth had seethed itself
into dark water again, I thought the Walters
must be a witch, and, with a hundred
tons less of dead weight in her, the fastest
thing afloat.

"Keep her full," said I to the man who

steered; "if she breaks off she must go.
Let us cross the Line, anyhow ; such a
day's calm as we have left astern is enough
to last a man a whole voyage."

Just as I said this up came the skipper.
He approached the binnacle, looked at it,
then aloft, then around him, then peered
at me as though he wondered who I was.
I waited for him to address me, but he said
nothing, and went to leeward and gazed at
the passing water for a time, and then came
back to the binnacle.

Presently he asked in a hollow voice what
o'clock it was.

Just upon six bells, sir." And at that
moment the bell was struck.

He seemed like a man awakened from a
sleep, all in a flurry, and stared about him
in the queerest way. His dog, hearing his
voice, came up and pawed him, standing
on its hind legs with its fore paws upon his
coat. He picked the dog up and carried
it to windward, talking to it ; then all on
a sudden he threw the poor brute overboard,
crying out, " I shall follow you soon, Bodkin !
Good-bye, old friend. Poor Bodkin ! goodbye

! " and he wrung his hands, and dashed
them with a wild gesture against his face,
and shouted out, " Can you see him, Mr.
Lee?"

I made him no answer, being much
shocked, not only by the madness but by
the cruelty of the action ; but the fellow
who was steering answered, " The sharks '11
have had him by this time : there are
two of 'em following the ship;" and as if
in confirmation of the man's remark, I
heard, or fancied I heard, a faint, wild yelp
far astern.

The captain walked right up to me and
looked me for a moment or two in the face
without speaking. Remembering what he
carried in his breast-pocket, I held my two
hands ready poised for the first suspicious
movement.

It is hard to part with old friends, Mr.
Lee," he exclaimed in a broken voice. " I
have had that dog five years, and he was
very fond of me. He has gone first, and
it's my turn next. Poor Bodkin ! "

He looked over his shoulder at the Bea,
edging away from me until he reached che

companion, and still looking astern. " Goodbye,
Bodkin! good-bye, old friend!" lie
exclaimed, waving bis hand ; and be went
below slowly, pausing at each step of the
ladder, and sighing heavily.

I pulled my cap off and wiped my forehead,
for the perspiration was thick on my
face. I had half a mind to call Mr. Thomas
at once in order to confer with him, but I
was afraid the skipper might be lurking in
the cuddy and would hear me ; I therefore
abandoned that idea and resolved to wait
until eight bells, when it would be my duty
to arouse the chief mate.

I quitted the wheel in order that the man
might have no excuse to comment upon
what he had seen. I was never before so
troubled in my mind in all my life. I felt
it would be impossible for us to go on much
longer in this way; something was bound
to happen sooner or later to open the eyes
of the passengers and crew to the captain's
condition, and if a disaster occurred, should
not I deserve great blame for not providing
against it, by alarming the men and securing
the captain ? It could be said afterwards,

" This man knew the captain was
mad, and owns now that he thought the
ship in jeopardy in consequence of the
captain's madness : but he never interfered ;
he let things take their course." Well,
that would be true from one side of the
question, but in reality it was more Mr.
Thomas's place to provide for the ship's
safety against the captain's madness. I
was but second mate. Moreover, he had
eyes as good as mine to see for himself
whether Captain Flanders was mad or not ;
and his not choosing to think the captain
mad was sure to make any resolution I might
form to prove him mad doubly fatal to
myself in the event of failure.

Eight bells were now struck, and I heard
them forward thumping the scuttle and
rousing the sleepers in the forecastle. I
called Mr. Thomas, and returned to the
poop to wait until he dressed himself. A
hand out of the port watch came aft to
take the wheel, and I heard the man
whom he relieved tell him that the captain
had thrown his dog overboard. The freshman,
however, did not appear to make much

of it ; he was sleepy, hot, and irritable,
and he growled out, " Ay, an' a good job
too for the dog. He'd better be drownded
than kep' at sea all his life." The truth
was, the seaman who had witnessed the
captain's action was unable to convey the
impression it had left. All he could say
was, that the skipper had flung his dog
overboard, but he could not submit the
scene to the other in such a way as to make
him see the madness in it. He would tell
the same story in the same way when he
went forward, and probably all the men
would think was that the skipper had a
right to drown his dog if it pleased him ; and
there was nothing strange in his choosing
to drown it at night, only he might as well
have hitched something heavy round the
poor brute's neck first. Whether they would
make anything of the captain's threat to
follow his dog I could not foresee ; sailors
mostly laugh at talk of that kind, and only
remember what was said after a man has
executed his threat.

Mr. Thomas yawned loudly as he came on
deck ; he said he had only had half an hour's

sleep during his watch below ; it was too
hot to sleep, he said ; it was worse than
lying in the Hooghley, only there were no
mosquitoes. However, I soon woke him up.

In the first place I told him that the
skipper had thrown his dog overboard, and
his exclamation to me when he did so ; and
then I told him about the offer of marriage
to Nelly.

There, now ! " he exclaimed. " What
did I tell you the other clay? You wouldn't
believe me."

Well, Mr. Thomas," said I, " you were
right ; but if that were the worst part of my
story I shouldn't have said anything about
it. I believe that the time has come for us
to make up our minds very seriously as to
what course we are to adopt with regard to
Captain Flanders. My conviction is that
he is dangerously mad, and that the ship is
in peril so long as he commands her."

I then gave him the whole substance of
the captain's conversation with me, all that
he had said about the chief mate, how he
had made me feel the revolver in his breast,
and how he had ordered me to tell Mr.

Thomas that he was prepared for him. The
little man was thunderstruck. He kept on
exclaiming, "Is it possible he can believe
I want to murder him ? " as though he
could not master the meaning of his own
words.

"What a frightful position to find oneself
in ! " he cried. " Good God ! under the
persuasion that I am thirsting for his blood
he may take it into his head to draw his
revolver upon me ! "

You will have to w 7 watch him very
closely," said I. " I do, whenever he speaks
to me."

"What shall we do, Lee ? " he exclaimed.
"It won't do to let him murder us."

"No, certainly not," I answered, "although
his throwing his dog overboard looks
uncommonly like business, sir. But what
are we to do ? " and here I enumerated all
the difficulties I foresaw in the way of our
confining him.

Thomas knew our profession thoroughly,
and grasped all my objections at once. He
shook his head as he muttered, " True, true,
every word ! Lord, what a position ! " and

looked about the poop as if he expected to
see the skipper lurking among the darker
shadows.

I see nothing for it," said I, " except to
wait a bit in the hope that the crew and
passengers will discover the truth for themselves.
We must provide ourselves with
witnesses able to prove that the man was
mad enough to justify us in securing him
before we lay ' '

Ay ! " he interrupted eagerly ; u but you
can prove that he has as good as threatened
to shoot me, that he carried a loaded pistol
in his pocket, and that I went about in fear
of my life ! "

"I could swear to that, it is true," I
replied ; " but swearing and proving are two
different things. Or view it thus. Suppose
we resolve to confine Captain Flanders to
his cabin, to secure him in such a way as to
prevent him doing any mischief; it would
not do for you and me to lay hands upon
him — we should have to go to work in a
formal way ; we should require the assistance
of the men. Suppose the men refused ?
But worse still — suppose they consented,

came aft, were harangued by the captain
and persuaded by him that we were a couple
of mutineers, and that this was the first
step in a play that w r ould end in transporting
them all for life if they meddled any further
in it, and then, having convinced them not
only that he was not mad but that we were
a couple of pirates, he ordered them to clap
us in irons ? Eh, Mr. Thomas ! What think
you of that picture, sir ? Does it sound so
very improbable ? For my part, I believe
that this is just the very identical thing
that would happen if we went to work incautiously.
Madness is always full of cunning,
and I bet that if the skipper chose he
could act and talk for hours together so
rationally, so genially, with such a well-bred
air — hear Miss Maitland speak of him ! —
that whoever listened should swear he was
as fine and sensible a man as any living,
and that you and I must be mutineers to
entertain so atrocious a scheme as that of
locking him up in his cabin ! "

All this was as true as gospel, and Mr.
Thomas was obliged to own it was.

"Why, in Heaven's name, does he fasten

upon me ? " he cried. " Do I look like an
assassin ? But he has been storing up his
rage ever since we got under weigh. He
has mortified me, he has affronted me, done
everything he could to show how much he
dislikes me, and now he means to make me
out a murderer in heart if not in deed ! A
pretty mess, by George ! "

If he should fire at you, Mr. Thomas — "

Fire at me ! " he shouted. " For God's
sake don't talk in that way, Mr. Lee ! Fire
at me ! Why, if he should fire at me, do
you know he might kill me, sir ? How many
balls do you think it takes to kill a man ? "

What I meant to say was, that if he
should attempt any violence, we should have
an excuse for locking him up."

Oh, hang that kind of excuses ; I'd
rather be spared them," he growled. " Why,
what a position for a man to be in — watched
by a lunatic with a pocketful of powder and
shot ! At this rate, my life's not worth an
hour's purchase. I'm no coward, Mr. Lee,
and I shouldn't wait for a chair to stand onto
pluck the tallest man living by the beard
who called me a coward ; but, by George !

it would have made Nelson himself sweat to
feel that he was being watched by a madman
with a revolver in his bosom, and that
at any moment a shot might come crashing
through his cranium."

"I don't think we need fear that," said
I. "He is quite as much afraid of you
as you can be of him ; and with all deference,
sir, I think your place will be to
keep forward, at this end of the poop, as
much as possible, and take care never tolet
him catch you looking at him, for that
seems to have worried him more than anything
else."

I hope he won't come on deck this
watch," said he. " However, you go below,
Mr. Lee, and turn in. We can do no more
good by talking, and if he should take it
into his head to come up and have a look
at me, he had best find me alone. A man
can die but once, and if I am to be despatched
by a madman's pistol, why, there's
an end ; it's rewritten, Lee. A bullet kills
more quickly than drowning, and either
death is better than hanging."

I never before realized how closely comedy

and tragedy lie side by side, until I caught
myself laughing in my cabin over the image
of little Thomas looking up and down the
deck, starting at every sound, and shaping
every shadow into the figure of Captain
Flanders, in the act of levelling his revolver.
However, laugh as I might, the matter was
anything but a joke, and must be ended
somehow and immediately, for it would be
impossible for the chief mate to go on living
in a constant state of fear ; and even as it
was, the four hours he would have to pass
on deck before I relieved him, the night so
dark that it was only because the sails blotted
out the stars that their outlines were visible,
no one at hand but the man at the wheel
to come to his help, whilst at any moment
he might turn and find the captain at his
elbow ; I say, even this middle watch that
he was now keeping was full enough of
anxiety to turn a man's hair grey. However,
if the captain meant to shoot him,
my being on deck would not stop the ball
from hitting him; and so, after tying awake
for an hour, listening to the froth spitting
and hissing under the open port-hole, and

YOL. II. v

the tread of the mate's boots as he passed
along the deck over my head, I fell asleep.

I had slept for an hour and a half, when
I was awaked by the sound of water splashing
in the cabin, and starting up, I found
that the freshening breeze was now and
again hoisting a little sea clean into the
port-hole, and after filling a pair of half-wellington
boots, had washed them off the
chest and carried them away to leeward. I
jumped out of my bunk and closed the port,
and having poured the water out of my
boots, was about to turn in, when I heard
the captain hail the forecastle, just over my
head. I listened. Presently one or two
men came along to the quarter-deck. The
captain again sung out, and the men went
up the poop-ladder and walked right aft.

I thought it strange that the captain
should be at the break of the poop giving
orders, if the mate was on deck, and
wondered if Mr. Thomas had gone forward,
and if so, what errand had carried him there.
I put my eye to the port-hole to see to what
extent the wind had freshened, and how
the weather looked; but it was very dark

outside, and I could only make out here
and there a star shooting past the thick
glass as the vessel rolled.

I once more lay down and closed my
eyes, and was dozing with all my senses
abroad, when again I was aroused by hearing
voices on the quarter-deck, and soon
after Mr. Thomas's cabin door was opened
and closed, and the key turned and withdrawn.
As his cabin was right opposite
mine, these sounds were very distinct. I
knew I could not be mistaken ; I never
remember Mr. Thomas locking his cabin
door before, and the withdrawal of the
key was remarkable. I lay listening and
and wondering. Presently somebody rapped
on the door of my cabin.

"Who's there?" I called.

Are you awake, Mr. Lee, sir ?" responded
some one, in a voice that was intended fora
whisper, but that sounded uncommonly
like the snore of a lion.

u Is that you, Sinnet ? "

Yes, sir. May T open the door ? Here's
a regular start outside."

Come in," I answered, sitting erect in

o

the bunk and groping about for a box of
matches on a shelf over my head, which
I presently found, and lighted the swinging
lamp against the bulkhead. By the time
I had got the lamp alight Sinnet had closed
the door and stood up against it, with his
big whiskers, red face, loose duck trousers,
and naked chest, looking like a nautical
sign over a public-house.

What is it ? " said I, staring at him ashe
turned his quid and squinted around the
deck for some place to spit on.

Why, sir," he replied, " the capt'n's
just called me aft to lock Mr. Thomas up
in his cabin. When I gets upon the poop,
there stan's the capt'n holding a revolver
in his hand, and he points like fury aft to
where Mr. Thomas wur standing, close again
the w T heel, an' he sings out, ' The chief
mate of this ship wants to take my life,
bo'sun. D'ye see him there ? Secure him
at once and lock him up in his cabin, an' if
he struggles, make his legs fast, d'ye hear?'
And then he makes a little run aft and
points his pistol as if he meant to shoot ;
after which he heaves to and says to me,

What are you a-waiting' for ? Bear a hand !
bear a hand ! ' and he actually catches hold
o' my arm, sir — ay, as true as I'm standing'
here, he do — and he runs me up to Mr.
Thomas and then up helm, and away he
&cuds forwards as far as the quarter-boat,
singing out, ' Quick ! quick ! I'll teach him
who's master here ! I'll let him see what
mutineers's like ! ' "

By this time I was out of bed dressing
myself, but so great was my excitement
that I hauled on my trousers stern foremost,
which, giving my legs no play, tumbled me
down on the deck ; nor could I rise until the
boatswain had rid me of my small-clothes.
I cursed my stupidity, for I had sprained my
ankle. " But fire away, Sinnet. What happened
after ? "

Why, sir, I went up to Mr. Thomas
and says, ' You hear what the capt'n says,
sir ? ' and he answers, ' Thank God ! Carry
me anywhere out o' reach o' that blasted
revolver ; ' an' he made me go along with
him to leeward, all the way holding up his
hand and crouching his head behind it, like ;
and he's now in his cabin, and here's tin 1
key of it."

Who's keeping watch ? "

Why, the capt'n, sir."

Is he very much excited ? "

Not in the least now, sir. When I reported
the chief mate in his cabin, he said
quite pleasantly, < Thank ye, bo'sun; that's
a load off my mind.' But by the way the
chief mate went along wi' me, I can't help
thinking', sir, it's more a load off his mind
than t'other's. I can't make out how it's
all come about, Mr. Lee. I never see any
man less vicious-looking than Mr. Thomas.
I've always found him straight, and right
up to his work, and the men in his watch
swear by him. Of course it's my booty
to do what I'm told, but sure-ly Captain
Flanders is mistaken in Mr. Thomas — leastways,
it's all keel upwards to me. However,
there he is, sir," said the worthy fellow,
pointing with his thumb over his shoulder,
an' I- thought it right to let you know
what's happened."

Something in the expression of his face
induced me to exclaim, "I see you have
guessed the truth, Sinnet, or at all events
you are very near it. It's a bad job, but

Ay, sir, but it was queerer than we
found it. Lookin' back, I can see it vas a
rummy business, but there was nary man
forwards as could swear it wasn't all shipshape,
unless it wur Chips, and he's buta
ignorant man too, though he pretends to
know more than most men."

Have you seen Miller since he left the
wheel? " I asked, Miller being the man who
was at the wheel when the captain threw
his dog overboard.

No, sir ; but at eight bells when he came
forrard he stood again my door telling his
yarn about the drowning of the dog to one
of the men — Jim Cooper I think the man
was. I heard every word."

Surely, bo'sun, that yarn ought to have
prepared you for anything that might happen;
I mean that, having heard that story,
you couldn't feel much astonished when
you found the captain on the poop with a

revolver in his hand, singing out to you to
seize Mr. Thomas ?"

"Well, you see, it's like this, Mr. Lee,"
he answered. "If the captain hadn't sung
out to his dog that he was going to follow
him soon, I don't know as I should have
found anything weary striking in Miller's
story. But when I heard Miller say that
the capt'n talked to the dog after it was in
the water, I begun to see something fishy
in the whole job."

The skipper's boots creaking overhead
warned me not to prolong the conversation.
Sinnet," said I, "you had better say
nothing to the men about the captain's

being " I did not like to say mad, so I

touched my forehead, and the boatswain
nodded about thirty times, so anxious was
he to let me see he understood me. " We
must take an opportunity to talk the matter
over, and think what is best to be done.
One thing is clear — he must be watched.
Don't suppose I think him worse than he is ;
but after what I have seen and heard, Sinnet,
I believe that, if we value our lives, and
desire to see the Waldershare kept out of

peril, we must watch him. He has confined
the chief mate to his cabin, and so I suppose
he means to keep watch and watch
with me. We must let him think that he
is keeping watch, but in reality, bo'sun, it
will be for you and me to keep watch and
watch. Do you follow me ? You're not to
come aft and walk the deck when I'm below,
but you'll have to turn out and dress yourself,
and keep your eye on the weather, and
see all clear, and be ready to take the command
out of his hands if you find him going
wrong."

"I see, sir. He'll never guess that I'm
keeping his look-out."

Just so. You had better go forward
now. I should not like him to find us talking
here in my cabin. One delusion breeds
another, Sinnet, and he may be ordering me
under arrest next, which mustn't happen ;
for if I'm stowed away, who the deuce is
going to check his navigation ? But mind
you don't get talking to the men. If they
speak to you about Mr. Thomas, just say
that it's your duty to obey orders ad to ask
no questions, and that you have no notion

what the rights or wrongs of the matter
are ; let the crew think what they like.
The truth will come upon them soon enough,
I believe, and you and I must take care
that when it comes it shan't hurt anybody.
That'll do, Sinnet. You can go forward ;
but keep a bright look-out until I go on
deck to relieve the captain."

I was now dressed and sitting up in my
bunk, with my legs dangling over the edge.
Sleep was gone out of my eyes. I was
greatly worried and anxious, although my
mind was much relieved by the boatswain
having found out the truth without any
hints from me, and by the arrangement I
had made with him.

My reason in ordering the boatswain not
to speak to the men was, I wanted the crew
to see for themselves that the captain was
mad ; they would then be all at my back.
I could do as I pleased without fear of consequences,
and it would be my duty to
secure the skipper and release Mr. Thomas,
that he might take command of the ship.
But I was determined not to move in the
matter until the crew came into ni}- way of

thinking, and asked me to act ; and how
long it would take them to find out the
truth was more than I should have cared to
predict, for of what value was the penetration
of men who, taking the boatswain as
their mouthpiece, found that the only odd
feature in the incident of the drowned dog
was the captain talking to him " after he
was in the water" ?

Dropping from my bunk presently, I
opened the cabin door and looked into the
cuddy. A single dim lamp was slung just
abaft the mizzen-mast, and all the fore part
where I stood was in shadow. Out on the
quarter-deck it looked pitch dark. I heard
the captain pacing the deck from the quarter-boat
to the wheel and back again, with the
regular swing of a pendulum. The bulkheads
and timbers creaked a bit as the
vessel rolled, but the water was smooth,
there was a fine breeze, the ship, under a
cloud of canvas, was going through it steadily
and silently enough, as if her progress were
made on the soft bed of froth she heaped
around her. I crossed the deck and knocked
lightly on Thomas's door. He had probably

been expecting me ; any way, lie knew who
it was, for he replied, " All right, Lee," and
then came to the door.

The bo'sun has told me all about it,"
said I. " I don't think you need worry
yourself, Mr. Thomas. It can't last. There
will be a regular flare-up of some kind or
other, and then the crew will take the
matter in hand."

What does the bo'sun think, Lee ? "

Why, sir, he thinks the captain mad."

Good. I don't regret this. The thought
of that man watching me with a pistol in
his bosom was growing unbearable. Anyhow,
I'm safe here ; only, for God's sake,
keep a smart look-out and see that he don't
run away with the ship. If a ghost should
tell him to wreck the Waldershare, he might
plump us into Saint Paul."

I explained the arrangement I had made
with the boatswain.

"Ay," he exclaimed, " that will do. I
shall be able to sleep now. It was too
awful to think of this ship and nobody keeping
watch but a madman. I say ! "

"What, sir?"

Take care that he don't starve me. He
may try to come the bread-bridgewater dodge.
I'm not a giant, Lee, but I want nourishing
as much as any man. I commit my body
to your love, Lee ; for God's sake, my dear,
see that I'm used well."

I'll take care of you if I have to plunder
the pantry," I answered. " Good night ! "
And I returned to my cabin, glad to have
found him so easy under restraint. After
sitting thinking awhile in my bunk, I put
my head upon the pillow and fell asleep,
and never awoke until I heard some one
beating on my door. " Hilloo ! " I sung out.

It's eight bells, Mr. Lee ; your watch on
deck, sir ! " exclaimed the captain in his
deep voice. Being dressed, I was on deck
in a few moments, and as I made my way
up the poop-ladder, I resolved not to appear
to know what had happened in the watch
just ended. The dawn was broad in the
east, just fronting the wave-tips under it,
though the horizon made a line as black as
ink, and all in the west the night-shadow
was dense, and the stars few and faint.
The wind was fresh and sweeping, vi rj

steady but well forward ; there was little or
no sea, only now and again the lift of a
swell, and a leap of dark water against onr
weather beam ; the ship was under the
same canvas I had left on her, and was
soothing pleasantly through it, her spars
erect like the cocked ears of a race-horse,
and her decks all breezy with the wind.

The skipper was looking at the compass
when I gained the poop, but on catching
sight of me he came forward. His face,
pallid at all times, looked uncommonly
ghastly in the growing light, and his eyes
appeared to have sunk a foot in his head
since I had seen him last.

"I dare say you are surprised not to seethe
chief mate on deck, aren't you ? " said
he, gazing at me very narrowly and with a
great frown. I pretended to be struck by
the circumstance, and looked around me,
exclaiming, "I don't see him, sir."

No, sir, and you'll see him no more,"
said he, with so serious and impressive a
voice, that had I not known what had become
of Thomas I should have thought he
was dead.

I explained to you last evening, Mr.
Lee," he continued, " what the intentions
of that man were. My life is precious tome,
and it was monstrous that I, the captain
of the WaldersJiare, should be haunted
day and night by the conviction that my
chief officer only waited for a fitting opportunity
to murder me. No one," he exclaimed,
in a trembling voice, " would
believe the agony of mind this man has
caused me. Over and over again when I
have been lying awake he has crept into
my cabin and looked at me, and seeing my
eyes wide open has crept away again, whilst
I have been powerless to move until he was
gone ; and then I have started up with the
sweat pouring from my face, wondering with
awe and devotion that Almighty God should
always be pleased to keep me waking during
the visits of this miscreant."

He lifted his hat with a shaking hand,
evidently with the intention of wiping his
forehead, but forgot his purpose and replaced
his hat, and I saw two tears roll down his
hollow cheeks. He gave me the idea of
a man who had grown old and white and

imbecile in a night. I never beheld a more
moving figure, nor could imagine a more
affecting expression of face.

May I ask what has become of the chief
mate, sir? "

He is locked up in his cabin, and there,"
he suddenly burst forth in a furious manner,
I intend he shall remain until I get him
to Callao. It will be my turn then ! " I
held my peace. "You see how it is, Mr.
Lee : to prevent him taking my life, I have
locked him up in his cabin. Now I shall
hope to get some rest, and be rid of this
thing that frets my chest as though it were
the blade of a knife boring me," laying his
hand on the pistol under his coat. " You
and I will stand the watches for the rest of
the voyage out."

Very good, sir."

"The course is S.S.W. She is a point
and a half off — let her go full."

"Ay, ay, sir."

He then went away to his cabin. As I
paced the deck I felt a real culprit. His
tears and the glimpse he had enabled me to
catch of his mental sufferings appealed tome

forcibly. I felt the strength of his claim
upon me for protection against himself; and
yet I durst not act. A sort of divinity hedges
the captain of a ship at sea, as we are told
it does a king ashore. Ay, you may laugh,
my fine fellow, but let me tell you that in
the eyes of a true sailor his captain has a
kind of sanctity ; he is boss, head man ; one
part of the deck is reserved for him ; he
comes and goes as he pleases ; exacts absolute
obedience, and over his little kingdom
has more despotic powers vested in him
than any other kind of monarch dare exercise
or dreams of possessing. Hence every
professional instinct in me shrank when I
thought of seizing Captain Flanders and
locking him up, even whilst I felt that by
doing so I should be acting as much for his
own as for the sake of every person aboard ;
and this reluctance was altogether independent
of the reasons I have already given
which determined me to remain inactive a
while.

The sun brought promise of a fine day;
it soared into a sky full of high delicate
clouds, shot with vari-coloured lustre like the

VOL. II. F

pearly inside of an oyster-shell ; the sea was
all ablaze in his light, and now and again a
squadron of flying-fish darted from the side
of a sea and buried themselves in some distant
green ridge, like a flight of silver arrows
shot out of the deep and falling back again.
Presently signs of life began to show about
the ship ; the cook came out of the forecastle,
yawning with his arms stretched out,
opened the galley door and lighted the fire ;
then the steward emerged from the cuddy
and went forward ; then the butcher made
his appearance and busied himself under the
long-boat. Anon the boatswain's mate piped
the watch to wash down the decks, and out
from all sorts of places emerged a number of
sleepy, grumbling men, their trousers tucked
above their knees, and their arms bare ; the
head pump was rigged, buckets and 
passed along, and soon the lee
scuppers were discharging dirty streams of
water as the buckets were whisked along
the decks and the scrubbing-brushes went
scraping over the hard planks.

Whilst this work was doing, I noticed the
boatswain, who was standing near the galley,

look intently aft, and suddenly his mate,
who plied the baskets which were passed to
him from forward, broke off for a moment to
speak to him, and they both looked aft. I
thought nothing of this, and took a turn ;
but when I returned I found most of the
men looking in the direction in which the
boatswain had fixed his eyes. When they
saw me they fell to again, and the boatswain
came and stood under the poop.

I should like to say a word to you, sir,"
said he.

Step up, Sinnet : what is it ? "
Why, sir, as I was looking this way just
now, I see the skipper come to the cuddy
window with a regular run, as if some one
was after him, an' shake his fist at us, and
then he ran back ; presently up he comes
again, and this time he makes a terribly ugly
face, to be sure, and likewise holds his fist
up, just as if some one was sarciiuj him and
he was saying', ( If ye do that again I'll knock
you down ! ' Then back he flies, and I
thought he was gone for good ; but not he !
He comes once more and flattens his face
again the window and stares like that, an

then he goes away. See, sir ! look at them
fellows staring ! I'll bet my life he's there
again, watching' 'em."

Indeed, the men were all looking towards
the cuddy and speaking, one to another,
in low voices. Telling Sinnet to remain
where he was, I went on to the quarterdeck.
The poop, as most people who have
any knowledge at all of ships are aware,
is a raised after-deck, the front of which
overlooks the main-deck. The front of the
~W alder share's poop consisted of three
windows, on either side a central door ;
these windows furnished light to the forepart
of the cuddy, or saloon as it is sometimes
called, the skylights illumining the
part abaft the mizzen-mast. The break of
the poop overhung these windows by about
five feet, and as Mr. Thomas's cabin and
mine projected to that extent beyond the
line of the other cabins, a recess was left
between them that was very useful in dirty
weather as a well-sheltered nook for a yarn
or a smoke.

The first object my eye encountered when
I reached the quarter-deck was the face of

Captain Flanders framed by the window
next to my cabin. It was as white as a
sheet, and as he wore no hat, his egg-shaped
head presented a most extraordinary
appearance, nothing of him being visible
below his chin. It was, indeed, a face to
scare any man who did not know the condition
of the brains inside it, and I was not
at all surprised that the men could do no
work for watching it. The moment he saw
me his features grew convulsed, with an
expression that was as much like a laugh
as a frown ; he raised his hand and beckoned
to me with a gesture full of wild eagerness.
I immediately entered the cuddy.

Hush ! " he exclaimed, putting his finger
to his lips. " Come aft."

He led me to the door of his cabin, and
I thought he would take me into it ; but he
stopped short.

Why do all the men stare ? " he asked.
What do theyniean? Is the chief mate
among them ? "

No, sir. The chief mate is in his
cabin, locked up."

Why do they stare, then ? " he exclaimed,

angrily. " What are their intentions ? Have
they mutinied ? "

"No, sir."

I don't trust them. Have they no
design upon my life ? Will you swear ? "

I will swear with pleasure. Your life
is as safe as mine, so far as they are concerned."


How can you believe it?" he cried,
scornfully. " Do you not see the devilish
expression in their faces ? Oh, my God ! "
he exclaimed, cowering and holding his
hands to his head, " where can I go to he
safe ? Who will keep them out of the
cuddy if they determine to enter it ? "

I'll take care that they don't come
here," I answered; and I opened his cabin
door, and he sneaked in, trembling all over ;
and the moment I closed it outside he locked
it inside.

I hoped now he would go to bed and keep
quiet. I doubt if he had shut his eyes in
sleep that night, for he was on deck during
the first watch, had kept much of the
middle watch himself, and now, in the
morning watch, he was still awake. The

men looked very hard at me as I came out
of the cuddy ; they all of them knew by
this time that something was amiss with
the captain, and, indeed, there seemed a
disposition to skulk and yarn : the captain
had gone wrong and the chief mate was
locked up, and they fancied some advantages
should come to them out of these things.
But Sinnet was the man to " work up their
old iron" without bullying them. The
moment he noticed their laxity, he was 7
among them, shoving one fellow this way,
tumbling another yonder, grasping a bucket
of water and soothing it along so that it
ran up the legs of the men who stood near
and set them capering, wresting a scrubbing-brush
from one man and scrubbing furiously
to show how it ought to be done, running
another forward by the scruff of his neck
to show him where some dirt lay, shouting
out in his hurricane-note, " Scrub and hang
yourselves, bullies ! Now then, you rogers *
forward there, keep that pump working —
d'ye hear ? are you afraid of the sea running

Soldiers. The most contemptuous term you can
apply to a Bailor.

short ! " until the whole watch were in
motion again and the scuppers gushing
briskly.

I drew horn aside when he had got the
men to work and told him that the captain
was afraid the men would rise, and that he
was under the impression that Mr. Thomas
was among them. " He is getting worse
and worse," I exclaimed. " I wish I knew
what my duty was in a job of this kind ;
for to go on in this way is ruinous to a
man's nerves."

D'ye think there's any foundation for
the capt'n's suspicion of the chief officer,
Mr. Lee ? " asked the boatswain.

Lord love you, man, no ! Why, are you
going mad to ask such questions ? "

Then he ought to be let out — that's why
I axed the question, sir."

No ; you can't let him out without the
captain's orders."

"Any way, here's the key of the chief
mate's door; perhaps you'll take it, sir.
It's of no use to me."

I put the key in my pocket and said it
would be best to let the day pass without

doing anything, to see what was going to
happen. "If he's much on deck the men
will notice him, and as their suspicion is
already excited, I dare say they will watch
him pretty curiously. Towards the close
of the day you may go among them and
endeavour to find out their views. If they
are agreed that he is mad — and there never
was a madder man in this world, Sinnet,
that you may take my word for — then you
had better call a council, point out that
the ship can't be left in charge of a
lunatic "

Of a what, sir?" asked the boatswain,
following me attentively.

Of a madman, I say. Tell them, that ashe
has locked up one mate, he may take a
fancy to lock up the other, in which case
nobody would know where he was navigating
the ship to, nor be able to form any
idea of what he meant to do with her ; so
that the only way to end the trouble would
be for some of the oldest seamen out of each
watch to lay aft, headed by you, and request
me in the name of the ship's company to
take measures to provide for the vessel's

security. This would strengthen my hands
and enable me to go to work without fear of
the consequences, should the captain grow
well and get me among the lawyers ashore.
The liberty of a shipmaster is a delicate
thing for his mate to meddle with, and
unless I'm supported by the whole of the
crew I'll not move in the business."

I see exactly what you mean, sir, and
it's the proper thing to do," answered the
boatswain. " I know how to talk to the
men to find out their minds ; and I rather
fancy old Sam Eoband has been in a like
quandary, for I heard him once yarning to
some of the men about a skipper as he sailed
with that w T went cranky, and took the ship's
cook to be his mother, and never would give
no orders without must singing out for his
mother to lay aft and tell him if he was
doing right."

The decks having been washed down and
swabbed, were soon dry, the wind blew
warm and fresh, and having veered a trifle
to the westwards, had let the ship come to
her course again, and so we might hope to

cross the Line next day. The ship being
jammed in the wind, was not doing more
than five knots, though the same wind free
would have driven her nine or ten. The
sea was all a-tumble with the breeze, and
yet smooth — that is, we went along it
smoothly, the waves not being strong
enough to lift and drop us ; and the water
was of an exquisite transparent green, with
heads of froth glancing and vanishing on it,
and in the east it was of a brilliant tremble,
too dazzling to look at, with the shining of
the sun upon it ; it was a morning to make
the mere feeling of being alive a delight.
Not only was the air like a powerful cordial,
but it was impossible to look abroad upon,
the sea and at the ship, with her delicate
topmost canvas matching the high pearl-coloured
morning clouds, and her masts
shining and her shrouds throwing bars of
shadow upon the sand-white deck, and the
foot-cloths of the lower sails, without a
kind of transport. It was well for me to
feel this sudden glow of pleasure, for undoubtedly
I had passed a night of real
anxiety, and still wanted all the heart I

could get. The ship was indeed, as things
stood, in no immediate peril ; but it was
difficult to know what was going to happen
whilst the captain remained at large. It
was all very well for the boatswain to say
that he knew how to talk to the men so as
to get them to come aft to me about the
captain ; but I believed that when they
came to discuss his conduct they would not
be able to satisfy themselves that he was so
bad as the boatswain might endeavour to
make out. In short, my whole fear was
that the crew would not be brought to think
the skipper dangerously mad until he had
done something to satisfy them that he was
mad, and, as I have before written, what he
should do to convince the men that he was
a lunatic might cause the loss of the ship.
How could this happen, do you ask ? Well,
there were several ways ; but the one I
most dreaded was his ordering me into
arrest, his persuading the ship's company
that Mr. Thomas and I were both in a conspiracy
against him, his taking sole command
of the ship and nobody knowing where
he was steering her.

A little after seven o'clock Mr. Black
came on deck and went forward to get a
bath, which he obtained by giving one of
the boys a trifle to pump on him. Next to
jumping overboard there is no better bath
to be had at sea than this, in warm weather.
The water comes up cool and green and
sparkling from under the bows, and the
warm wind blowing under the jibs and staysail
dries you without help of a towel. After
his bath the Scotchman arrived on the poop
for a little exercise. My mind being full of
Captain Flanders, I resolved, when I saw
Mr. Black come along the deck, to see what
sort of a notion he had formed of the
skipper.

Good morning, Mr. Black; I hope you
enjoyed your bath, sir ? "

Excellent, excellent, thank you, Mr.
Lee. There's nothing moor refreshing than
salt water befoor breakfast ; it clears the
seen of all the humours which gather
during the night, and creates a short of
vacuum in the stomach that is vary conducive
to good spirits when you know
there's a hearty meal waiting you."

Have you seen Captain Flanders this
morning, Mr. Black ? "

No, sir, I haven't."

T suppose you know that Mr. Thomas is
under arrest in his cabin ? "

"Eh? What's that?" said he, staring
in his slow way.

I repeated my remark, and added that the
chief mate was suspected by the captain of
wishing to murder him. I put the case
bluntly for reasons of my own, and watched
the effect of my words. It took Mr. Black
some moments to comprehend what I said,
and then he turned pale. I was nearly
laughing in his face, for as his pallor indicated
the moment when he mastered my
meaning, the time occupied by his mind in
digesting my words was ludicrously apparent.


Surely, Mr. Lee, that's a vary serious
accusation to make against a man," said he.

"I can't imagine a w r horse one, Mr.
Black," I answered. "But you know 7 Mr.
Thomas as well as I do, and I should like to
ask if you think he's capable of so atrocious
a crime as murder ? "

"Why, sir," says he after a long pause,
a question of that kind requires mature
consideration befoor it's answered. In the
mean time I cannot but say, that whether
Mr. Thomas is capable of murdering anybody
or not, I'm glad to hear that he's
under arrest."

But, my dear sir, if Mr. Thomas is
innocent of any such intention is it not
very hard upon him that he should be locked
up in his cabin? "

Well, sir, Captain Flanders probably
knows what he's about ; and having regard
to the safety of his passengers and the sheep
that he commands, I think he basket
judiciously in confining Mr. Thomas on
suspicion of a crime which, should it happen,
might imperil all our lives."

I was staggered by the obtuseness of the
man, for I honestly believed that he had
witnessed enough eccentricity in the captain
to justify him in putting something approaching
a right construction on the arrest
of the chief mate. However, it made me
see how wise I was in not attempting to
deal with the skipper on my own responsibility.


Mr. Black's alarm increased by degrees.
I don't think, even when he turned pale, that
he had fully mastered the formidable reason
I had assigned for Mr. Thomas's confinement.


Can it be possible," he exclaimed, " that
Mr. Thomas washes to murder the captain ?
Why, if that's so, it's the captain's duty to
mak' for the nearest poor. I could not
have believed such a thing. Ma certes !
Murder the captain ! What will the crew
think?" and he asked me at what hour
the mate's intentions were first discovered,
and what was the motive, and how he proposed
execute his dreadful threat, and if
it was known that others were concerned,
and, in short, the fool treated the whole
thing as if it had been a stark, fearful
reality.

Seeing how deplorably literal he was, I
resolved to give him no hint of the skipper's
insanity, for I believed him just the man
to go below and repeat my conversation to
Captain Flanders, and then no doubt what
I dreaded would come to pass — I should be
locked up too. At last he cried out that he

must go and see the captain on the subject
at once; the idea of there being anybody
aboard capable of so bloodthirsty an intention
as that of killing the captain made
him feel terribly uncomfortable, and down
he went.

However, when I came to reflect a bit,
I considered after all that the man showed
no extraordinary degree of stupidity in not
having detected the captain's insanity ; the
pranks which had carried most significance
to my mind had been exhibited almost exclusively
before me and Nelly. To enable
Mr. Black to form a decided opinion he
should have attended Lanyon's trial,.
witnessed the skipper throw his dog overboard,
listened to his conversation with
me about Mr. Thomas, have heard him
talk about religion and spirits, etc. Still
I could not help thinking there had been
enough manifestations of insanity in the
captain's behaviour to have aroused Mr.
Black's and the other passengers' suspicions,
and the Scotchman's ignorance of the
captain being wrong in his mind only convinced
me that it is possible to live for

VOL. II. G

some weeks in the society of a madman and
yet have no idea that he is mad.

The hull of a brig that had been made
out steering athwart our hawse had now
hove in sight. She was the clumsiest tui
I had ever seen afloat, like a fifty-year-old
north country collier, with a run like a
butter-box, a high stern sawn off, and bows
resembling an apple. She flew Spanish
colours, and was, perhaps, from Pernambuco,
bound to Sierra Leone. She tumbled over
the water like a buoy in tow ; her studding-sails
full of eyes, her old boom foresail
slatting, and the sea slopping round her as
though she had been a porpoise under
canvas. Yet the ocean made her very ugliness
picturesque. I called a hand aft to
hoist away the small ensign to let her see
what countryman we were, and at that
moment eight bells were struck and a boatswain's
pipe shrilled forwards.

As it was to be watch and watch with me
and the captain, I went below to call him,
and going to his door, I knocked, but got
no answer. I knocked once more, but again
receiving no answer, I tried the handle of

the door, but found that the key was turned,
as, indeed, I now remembered he had turned
it when he had gone to his cabin. Whether
he was asleep, or in a trance, or what he
was doing, I could not conceive ; but I
supposed he was asleep, and in a very deep
sleep too, as he had taken no rest that
night, and I went away and stood upon the
quarter-deck to consider what I should do.

Seeing Sinnet forward I hailed him, and
told him I had knocked twice on the
captain's door and got no answer, and that
the door was locked.

Shall I stand his watch until he comes
on deck ? " he asked.

But the men will think that queer," I
replied.

Ay, and so much the better," said he,
"for I want to set 'em whispering; and by-and-by
they'll be asking me questions, and
that'll help me to bring 'em aft as we
arranged, sir."

"Very well," said I. "Get you on to
the poop while T shift my clothes, and then
I'll send the steward aft. The captain will
have to come to breakfast, any way. If

lie's sleeping, let him lie : if ever brain
wanted rest, his does."

On this Sinnet left me, and I repaired to
my cabin, where I changed my clothes and
freshened myself np with cold water, and
then went into the cuddy again. The
steward was preparing the table for breakfast.
I stepped up to Mr. Black's door and
knocked. He came out.

Pray," said I, " did you see the captain
just now? I understood you to say you
were coming below to speak to him."

The steward told me he was in his
cabin and asleep," he replied. " But I
mean to speak to him, sir. What you told
me has vary considerably agitated me,
Mr. Lee. You did not tell me where Mr.
Thomas was confined."

Why, in his cabin yonder."

What ! " he shouted, "among the passengers
! Eh, but that's too bad. I shall
certainly protest against that, sir!" And
he drew in his head and closed the door.

That reminds me, steward, to tell you
to have the chief mate's breakfast at the
usual hour," said I. "I have the key in

my pocket, and when yon are ready report
to me."

"Yes, sir."

Just step aft, and see if yon can arouse
the captain. He is supposed to be keeping-watch
and watch with me ; and though I
would rather he should take his rest, he
may be annoyed if we let him sleep on.
Don't make too much row."

He went to the captain's door and
knocked several times, tapping lightly at
first, and then handling his knuckles
smartly. He got no answer, and I began
to feel alarmed. Mad as he might be, the
captain would still have the instincts of a
seaman, and must awaken to a lighter
summons than mine or the steward's if he
had ears to hear it.

"I can't get any answer, sir," said the
steward, coming back to me. " It's very
strange, isn't it ? He's not used to sleep
like this, sir."

"I neither understand it nor like it," I
replied.

At this moment Mr. Black came out of
his cabin, and in a few seconds after Nelly's

door opened. She, quick as lightning, saw

by my face that something was wrong, and
came round to me.

What is the matter?" she asked, in a
low voice.

The captain's cabin door is locked, and
we cannot get him to answer us," I replied,
in my usual voice ; and I let her see by
a sign that I wanted Mr. Black to hear my
answer as well as she. Her face grew
concerned in an instant, and she glanced
at me with her eyes full of pained inquiry.

"Have you knocked, Mr. Lee?" asked
Mr. Black, catching the dismay that was
strong in me and Nelly, and that was evidently
growing in the steward.

Before I could answer, the Spinosa' door
opened and out came the Spaniard, followed
by his wife ; so here was now the cuddy
half-full of people ; at the same time, happening
to glance forward, I saw some of
the men in the waist of the ship staring
aft, clearly surprised at seeing the boatswain
keeping watch.

"I have knocked, and so has the steward,"
said I, answering Mr. Black's question.

What is it ? What is it ? " cried the
Spaniard, in his quick way, looking into
everybody's face, it seemed to me, all at
once.

Now, this was too much, and to have all
these people boring me with questions at
a juncture of this kind was more than I
could endure.

Mr. Espinosa," said I, politely but
firmly, " you will greatly oblige me b} r
escorting Madam Espinosa on deck. Miss
Maitland (here I gave her a look), will you
please allow Mr. Black to conduct you onto
the poop ? My position just now is a
difficult one, and I wish to be free to deal
with it in the way that may be most conducive
to our general security."

Mr. Black was about to speak, but Nelly
walked up to him, put her arm through his,
and, in a manner, helped him along to the
companion steps ; and the Spinosa followed
with wondering faces, the Spaniard
darting fierce whispers to his wife as they
went.

When they were gone, I said to the
steward, "I suppose you know that the
chief officer is under arrest ? "

I have heard about it, sir."

Have they told you why he is locked
up?"

Yes, sir — for threatening the captain's
life."

Well, that's a delusion — a lie. You
have waited on the captain at this table ;
do you think he is in a fit state of mind
to command this ship ? "

Why, sir, you ask me a plain question,
and I'll answer it straight. I've all along
thought him a queer gentleman ; but you
make me put two and two together, and
taking what I've seen with my own eyes
and what I've heard tell of his doings, such
as chucking his dog overboard, and locking
up Mr. Thomas, and making faces at the
men, I don't believe he's fully sensible."
Here he sunk his voice, with a look in the
direction of the captain's cabin.

Upon this, I made up my mind to act
decisively; so once more stepping aft, I
beat heavily on the cabin door, at the same
time rattling the handle. " Captain Flanders!"
I shouted. No answer was returned.
I went on to the poop, where I found the

boatswain walking to and fro, watched by
the Spinosa and Mr. Black, who stood
together. By the alarm on the Spaniard's
face, it was plain that Mr. Black had told
him about Mr. Thomas, and no doubt
exaggerated the facts I had given him.
Nelly stood alone to leeward, looking at the
passing water.

Bo'sun ! " I exclaimed, "go forward and
send all the hands aft;" aud I stationed
myself at the rail and waited.

In a few minutes the crew came rolling
on to the quarter-deck. They were brimful
of eagerness and curiosity, and stood in a
crowd all about the capstan, every man's
eyes bent on me ; and a queerer lot of
faces I never looked at. They were as
silent as death, and before I spoke nothing
could be heard fore and aft but the buzzing
of the foam as it went along the ship's

"Men," said I, "you have, all of you,
heard by this time that your chief officer
lias been locked up in his cabin by order
of the captain. I take it upon myself to
tell you that there is not one atom of truth

in Captain Flanders' accusation against Mr.
Thomas. What I have now to say is this :
that for some time before we took the
north-east trades, I had a fear that the
captain was not right in his mind, and my
suspicions have been proved by his later
actions. I am very sorry to have to tell
you this. There is very much in Captain
Flanders' character that is admirable, and
his insanity has moved my deepest pity.
Though the safety of the ship was concerned,
yet I forbore to hint my fears of
the captain to any man aboard, wishing
rather that you, men, should find out the
truth for yourselves. However, matters
have now reached a point when I find it
time to speak out, and bring you all aft as
witnesses. The captain, in the middle
watch this morning, agreed to keep watch
and watch with me ; his watch has come
around, and I have tried to wake him up :
both the steward and I have knocked repeatedly,
and we can get no answer from
him. Whether mad or not, he is still our
commander, and we all know what is expected
of us and how we should act.

Therefore I have called you aft to help me
with your advice. I want you to tell me
whether, seeing that he will not answer
and that he is not responsible for his
actions, we shall break open his door and,
if we find him alive, take it upon ourselves,
for our own lives' sake and for those of
yonder ladies and gentlemen, to secure him,
and answer for our conduct when we reach
port."

The men looked at one another ; they
were much surprised ; they knew that things
were wrong aft, but they could not guess
how wrong, nor that they had been called
aft to listen to a proposal that struck some
of them as mutinous.

Suddenly the boatswain stepped forward.

Mr. Lee and shipmates," said he,
I've listened to what the second officer
lias said, and likewise have I watched the
skipper, and I'm bound to say that I don't
think Captain Flanders is in his right mind.
Take that burying' job of poor Lanyon. Take
his pitching' his dog overboard. Take his
locking' up Mr. Thomas, who, as every m.-m
here knows, is as good an officer as ;m\

sailor needs to sail with, a kind gentleman,
and incapable of a wrongful act. Mates, if
ye see a ship sailing' large with her topsails
furled, and notion set but her top-gallantries,
you may reckon the skipper's been
taking more lunar observations than's good
for his head. But to my way o' thinking'
queerer things ha' been done aboard this
ship by the skipper than sailing' her under
top-gallantries only. If he's in his cabin an'
won't answer, there must be some bad reason
at bottom, and as it may be a question
of our lives, mates, and the salvation o' this
ship, I'm for agreeing' to what Mr. Lee says,
and breaking' open the capt'n's door."

This short harangue put the matter in a
new light before the men, who had probably
found my address too tall for them. At all
events, no sooner had the boatswain ceased
than a murmur ran among them, and one
sung out, " We're with the second officer :
Ave all think he's quite right ; " and another
exclaimed, " If the skipper don't answer, it's
right enough that his door should be busted
open : there's no telling without it what may
have come to him ; " and several old seamen

spoke, among them Chips the carpenter, who
said that he never had any doubt, he hadn't,
after seen' the way in which Lanyon had
been buried, that the captain wasn't sound
in his upper works. He had tried to argue
with the bo' sun, but it wasn't no use ; the
bo 'sun knew better than he. He were only
a pore ignorant ship's carpenter; the cook's
mate could teach him to suck eggs, etc. ; all
w T which he delivered with his hands buried in
his trousers pockets, and his head rolling
from side to side as he addressed first his
right-hand neighbour, then his left, then
somebody astern of him.

Having heard all that they had to say,
and being fortified with the whole ship's
company as witnesses, I ordered the carpenter
to fetch the necessary tools to force the
door ; I also told two of the oldest seamen
in each watch to stand out and follow the
boatswain in the cuddy, and directed the
rest of the men to go forward. I then
turned to Mr. Black.

You have heard," I exclaimed, "wh:ii
has been said to the crew, and you can now
judge the position we find ourselves in. I

should be glad if you will join us as a
witness, so that, should any inquiry follow
this business, you may prove that in what
we did we were governed entirely by regard
for the general safety."

He looked uneasily at me, and said he
would be glad if I could do without him.

Will Mr. Espinosa come, then ? " said I.

No, no!" shouted the Spaniard, with
a sharp decisive accent, and a swift downward
gesture of the hand.

I did not press the matter, but calling to
the boatswain's mate in the port watch,
that watch being now on deck, to keep a
look out whilst I went below, I entered the
cuddy, where the boatswain, carpenter, and
four able seamen were waiting for me, and
we all went in a body to the captain's
cabin.

We'd better give him another chance
and knock again, sir," says Sinnet, in a
low, awed voice as we stood before the
door.

Very well," said I, and on that I raised
my fist and struck the door heavily ; but, as
I expected, we got no reply. "Now, carpenter,

do your work," I exclaimed, " and
let us lose no more time."

Whereupon with a chisel and mallet he
forced the lock, and the door opened. The
moment we could see inside the cabin we
raised a cry, for the first object that met
our eyes was the body of the captain hanging
from a cot-hook screwed into a beam ;
he had used such a short length of rope that
the nape of his neck was close against the
hook, and his head lay pressed upon his
bosom by the deck above. A yard away
from him was an overset chair, and his feet
dangled within a foot and a half of the deck.
He was dressed in his shirt and trousers,
and was perhaps in his bunk when the resolution
to hang himself seized him. Though
I own I had not expected to find him alive,
yet now that I saw him hanging there dead,
the realization of my fear so exceeded all
that my imagination could have depicted,
that I was seized with a trembling, and felt
the perspiration clammy on my forehead.
The manner in which his head was bowed
down prevented us from seeing his face — at
least, the full horror of it in that posture was

not visible — but bis limbs were straight as
though smoothed down into quietness b}'
the hand, and only the clenched fists gave
any indication of the last struggle.

Recovering myself promptly, I placed the
chair upright, jumped upon it and cut the
body down. It was caught by the carpenter
and one of the seamen, who laid it along the
bunk and unmatched the ror^e around the
neck. However, he was not only dead, but
had been dead for above an hour or even
longer. He was very nearly cold, and so
rigid that we could not compose the head
back ; and there he lay, with his head thrust
forward so that his chin pressed his chest
just below his throat ; and if it had not been
for his eyes and his perfect stillness, you
would have thought he was alive, and endeavouring
to catch sight of something
beyond his feet.

When we had put him in his bunk, and
after we were all satisfied that he was dead,
I ran my eye around the cabin in the hope
of finding something in writing ; for I had
heard that even the wildest madmen have
had lucid intervals before they destroyed

themselves, and written clown in plain collected
English their motives for committing
suicide. However, nothing of that kind
was to be seen. A large Bible lay open on
his table, and all around were wilting
materials, a sextant, magnifying glasses,
some scientific instruments and things of
that kind, with a chronometer-case, on the
top of which was the revolver he had
carried. The cabin was in good order ;
there was no litter, no confusion ; even the
coat and waistcoat he had taken off before
turning in were neatly folded upon a large
mahogany chest.

We can do nothing more, men," said
I, speaking in a whisper ; and we left the
cabin, the carpenter jamming his chisel
under the door to keep it closed. AYe stood
together in the cuddy a short while, talking
over what had happened, for we were all
of us more shocked than I have words to
tell. Had we merely heard that the captain
had hanged himself we should not have
thought so much of it ; it was the sight of
his body that made the thing awful, and,
above all, his stiffened neck and his head

vol. ii. ir

erect when he was on his hack, and in the
attitude of a man gazing earnestly, though
his eyes were as dead and glassy as the
dead-lights in the deck.

Having seen how he has died," said
I, " none of you can have any doubt that
he was mad; and that being so, we may
take it that his suspicion of Mr. Thomas
was only a part of his madness, like his
lecture over Lanyon, and his throwing his
dog overboard. A man whom we know to
be innocent ought not to be let suffer ; and
I therefore propose that we at once liberate
Mr. Thomas, and that he take command of
this ship."

They all promptly assented, and I unlocked
the chief mate's door and knocked ;
and on his singing out for me to come
in, I threw open the door. He had been
writing, but had risen on hearing the kej^
turned, and stood with his hand on a little
table. The men kept at a respectful distance
; however, we had moved so quietly
and talked in such low voices, that beyond
guessing by the thumping on the captain's
cabin that there was trouble to get him to

awaken, he had no idea of what had happened,
and consequently a look of alarm
came into his face when he saw the men in
the cuddy.

To spare him any suspense I immediately
told him that the captain was dead, that
indeed he had hanged himself, that we had
broken into the cabin and found the body,
and that the men there were some hands
I had called aft to witness to my conduct.

Whilst the captain's death proves his
insanity, sir," I said in a loud voice, that
the men might hear me, " it also proves
the groundlessness of his charges against
you. This being so, Mr. Thomas, it became
my duty to immediately release you, and
it is now the general wish that you will
take command and carry the ship to her
destination. She could not be in safer
hands, nor any ship's company desire a
better and kinder commander."

We're all of that opinion here, sir,"
said Sinnet, and the others murmured their
assent.

The little man had turned very pale when
he heard me say that the captain had

hanged himself, but he listened to the end
without interruption, and after shaking my
hand, turned to the men and thanked them
for their words.

So far from wishing to take the captain's
life," said he, "I can only say it would go
against my heart to hurt a fly; but now
that we all of us know he was mad, I feel
I shall take my old place again in your goodwill,
as a seaman who has always tried todo
his duty and whose log-book is a clean
one."

No more was said in this way, on either
side. Sailors are not fond of ceremony. We
had done everything in a shipshape fashion,
and all we had to do was to bury Captain
Flanders and, as we say at sea, make a
new point of departure. To the carpenter,
who was also sail-maker, was left the task
of sewing up the dead body in canvas and
preparing it for a sea-burial ; the others
were sent forward to give the story to their
mates, and Mr. Thomas and I went on the
poop.

The passengers were all hanging about
the companion in a great state of anxiety

to hear the news ; but if they hardly knew
whether to look for the captain, they (that
is, the Spinosa and Mr. Black) were quite
unprepared to see the mate ; and no sooner
did Mr. Thomas show his head than
Espinosa backed wildly into his wife and
very nearly capsized her, and Mr. Black
turned yellow, and his eyes became as round
in his head as the buttons on his waistcoat.
He immediately stammered out —

Where is the captain, Mr. Lee ? "

He is dead," I replied, and was going
to explain, when Espinosa shouted out from
behind his wife—

Wait ! What you say, eh ? de capitan
tait ? "

"Ay," said I, "as dead as hanging ever
made a man."

God guide us! " ejaculated Mr. Black,
keeping the companion between himself and
Mr. Thomas, and looking at him with an
expression of horror. "Who has hanged
him?"

"Why, he has hanged himself, sir," I
replied; " and if Mr. Espinosa is not afraid
to come within earshot, I shall be able to
tell you and him all about it."

At the same time I beckoned to Nelly,
who came over and shook hands with Mr.
Thomas — an action that somewhat inspirited
the others, for they all three of them drew
near.

It took me a good twenty minutes to
relate what I had to say, or rather to tell
the story in such a fashion as to make them
see how entirely true it was. The Spaniard
incessantly ejaculated, and when I described
the sight we had beheld in the cabin
on our forcing open the door, Mr. Black
groaned aloud, and Espinosa's legs quivered
in his trousers. I informed them that the
body was below ; would they go and inspect
it before the carpenter sewed it up ? No,
not for worlds. Mr. Black slewed himself
away from me, and Espinosa shook his
head as though he wanted to get rid of his
nose. As to Madam Espinosa, she stood
near her husband, listening to me with a
face as white as a sheet ; whilst Nelly was
overwhelmed with horror, and kept on exclaiming
to Mr. Thomas in a low voice as
if she could not credit what she heard.

However, the truth was now out, and it

was for Mr. Black and the Spinosa to
make the best or worst of it. I had said
all I considered necessary, and after again
pointing out that the most conclusive proof
of the captain's insanity had lain in his
suspicion of Mr. Thomas, I finished by
saying that the chief mate would now take
command of the vessel, and though no one
was more grieved than I by the shocking
end of a man whose many good qualities
had won my cordial respect, yet, now that
he was dead, and Mr. Thomas in command,
I should be able to sleep with a sense of
security I had not enjoyed for weeks. Hereupon
Mr. Black came up to Mr. Thomas and
shook his hand, very honestly saying that
when Mr. Lee had acquainted him with the
captain's suspicions he could not imagine
they were unfounded, as he never had reason
to suppose the captain insane, although he
owned the poor fellow had sometimes talked
oddly; but now that he had listened to
Mr. Lee's story, he felt he had done the
chief mate an injustice, and begged his
pardon. Mr. Espinosa also came up and
said something to Mr. Thomas, but what I

did not hear, for I was then talking to
Nelly.

So in this way we managed to get things
into a proper course, which happily proved
an easier soh than I had reckoned on.

CHAPTEK II.

CAPE HORN.

We buried the remains of Captain Flanders
at noon that day. Mr. Thomas read the
service, and I noticed throughout that
Chips listened with great satisfaction, and
made many efforts to catch the eye of the
boatswain, who, however, was not to be
courted into looking his way. When at
last the body was overboard, and the grating
replaced, every one experienced a feeling of
relief. Out of respect to the memory of
the skipper, no work had been done through
the morning; the men, therefore, had had
plenty of leisure to talk over him and his
death, and, having some sort of superstition
about suicides and foul winds, they were
uneasy until they had given the corpse its
last toss.

After the burial, the crew went forward
to get their dinner ; they were afterwards
turned to and set about the different jobs
which a ship is always requiring done, but
they were serious enough for the remainder of
the day. I heard no oaths, no loud laughs ;
they spoke in subdued voices, but it was
not so much the gloom as the awe of death
that kept them quiet. I believe that the
old seamen I had taken with me aft made
the most of the sight they had seen, and as
one grim tale is sure to produce another in
the forecastle, I can well imagine the sailors
got scaring one another with their stories.

And, to tell the truth, we who lived in
the cuddy were depressed enough. When
Thomas and I came to talk over the captain,
we found, after all was said, that for
anything that had been unpleasant only his
madness was to blame. He had been a
gentleman, a man of education, full of
humanity, a man who understood his business
as a sailor, and of strong religious
feelings. This was to have been discovered
by lifting up his madness, so to speak, and
looking under it.

Mr. Black was especially gloomy. One
would have thought him the last man in
the world likely to be guilty of sentiment,
and yet he was as superstitious as the most
ignorant man in the forecastle. He said
plainly enough at lunch that day, that he
considered the captain's death a bad omen,
and that, though he was not a rich man,
he would be glad to lose a hundred pounds
to be ashore, he didn't care where.

I told him I hoped his nervousness did
not arise from any doubt of Mr. Thomas's
capacity.

"Nay," he answered; "I have no coot
that Mr. Thomas is a vary capable officer.
It's not Mr. Thomas."

"What you say it is, den?" said Spinosa,
who listened anxiously.

"Sir," said Mr. Black, "I'm a Scotsman,
with Scotch prejudices, and I could
not make a Spaniard understand' my thoughts
if I was to express them."

u Prejudices often turn out to be very
foolish things, Mr. Black," said Nelly.

Then you do not believe in instinctive
perceptions, perhaps, Miss Maitland ? " said
Mr. Black.

I don't know what you mean," said
Nelly.

"By instinctive perceptions I mean the
power of reading the future in signs and
events which come under our nooses,
mam."

"I quite agree with you, Mr. Black!"
exclaimed Madam Espinosa, nodding approvingly
at the Scotchman. " I would
not walk under a ladder for worlds, and
dreaming of a wedding makes me miserable
for weeks."

"But what is it you fear, eh, Mistake
Black ? What you frighten of, eh ? " cried
Espinosa, who, having been alarmed by the
Scotchman's observations, and not understanding
his metaphysics, wanted a plain
answer.

"I could not mak' you understand my
reasoning," replied Mr. Black; "it would
be wasting words, sir."

On this Espinosa asked his wife some
questions in Spanish; but she waved him
off with a "tut, tut."

Volga me Dios ! " shouted the Spaniard,
losing his temper. " Mistake Lee, please

you tell me, sare, what for Mist aire Black
is afraid? "

"Why, Mr. Espinosa, Mr. Black, I presume,
is a believer in omens, and he thinks,
because Captain Flanders hanged himself,
that ill-luck will befall the Walder share"

That's about it," said Mr. Black.

I don't know why you should think so,
sir, for all that," said I, warmly. " We
have a good officer in command, and a fine
crew, and I hope I know my duty, Mr.
Black."

Looked you here, gentleman, please,"
said Espinosa, with the calmness of desperation,
rising from his chair and extending
both his yellow claws to me; " weel you,
once for all, tell me what is it you are
afraid of? What is se dangaire ? Mr.
Black he weel not answaire — Mr. Lee, weel
you speak to me, sire ? "

There is no danger ! " I shouted. " Mr.
Black has got a notion into his lie ad that
we're all doomed. We can't help Mr.
Black's notions, but we're not obliged to
lose the ship because the captain has hanged
himself! " And feeling rather angry, I got

up, saying, "Miss Maitland, let me take
you on deck," and we left them sitting at
the table.

Of all the abominable little cowards,"
I said to Nelly as we went up the companion
steps, " that Spaniard is the worst.
And what a vicious croaker is that same
Black ! Send him into the forecastle to
palaver the crew, and I bet that presently
not a hand would turn out to do a stroke
of work for fear of meeting a ghost."

We found Mr. Thomas pacing the deck.
I told him what the passengers were talking
about, and asked him to put a stopper on
Black's tongue. I would keep a look out,
I said, whilst he lunched. The wind had
warmed up into a magnificent breeze, just
free enough to enable us to carry the fore-topmast
studding-sail, and we were running-over
the water as steadily and swiftly as a
railway train. To find a fine steady breeze
like this in these latitudes was a great piece
of good fortune ; it made this part of the
voyage like a yachting trip. The heavens
had the soft blue of the English summer
sky, and the clouds which sailed along it

were white, small, and full, like puffs of
smoke. What little swell there was was
right astern, and the ship went over it in
such long, graceful sweeps that it was
scarcely perceptible.

Now that there was no captain to watch
me, and Mr. Thomas knew my story, I had
no diffidence in talking to Nelly. We stood
together to windward, looking over the rail
at the ship's copper glancing through the
tumble of foam and green water, and talked
of Captain Flanders, home, the voyage, our
experiences so far; and if we had been
depressed before, we were, at all events, as
happy now as two children, standing close
together, with our hands clasped and hidden
between us. Once again I told her that the
dearest memory of my life would be the
recollection of the courage and love that
had brought her to my side, and made a
long voyage so happy that I could never
w T wish it ended.

I always felt when I made up my mind
to join you that you would not long remain
angry," she answered, with a quiet smile.
She then asked me if I thought Mr. Thomas

was likely to command the ship home ? I
said no doubt he would ; that we should
probably ship another mate at Callao, but
whether a first or second mate I could not
guess : if a second mate, which would only
be fair to me, I should then be first officer,
and having filled that post once, it was
quite likely I should be appointed again,
and then my next berth would be captain.

The mere talking of such things was
enough to make me light-hearted. But I
have seen hens cackle over chalk eggs, and
I don't think I should have chatted so
blithely had I known the sort of hatching
job that lay before me.

At noon to-day we had found ourselves
exactly one hundred miles north of the Line,
having made ninety-eight miles southing
since ten o'clock on the preceding night.
If this breeze held, therefore, we should be
on the other side of the equator at eight
bells in the middle watch, for our speed
now was nearer ten than nine knots.

After being absent half an hour — knowing
I was with Nelly, the rogue would suspect
I should not be impatient — Mr. Thomas

came on deck laughing, followed by Mr.
Black and the Spinosa, all whom seemed
in a very much better humour than I
had left them in. He came over to me
chuckling heartily, with his eyes merry and
his face flushed ; and I feared for the
moment that his new command had slightly
turned his head, and that he had been
chinking to his own success a little too
freely. However, his articulation was all
right, and it turned out that his manner
was simply owing to intense self-complacency
: for first of all he had argued with
Mr. Black on omens, in such a manner as
to win a handsome compliment from that
gentleman ; then he had convincingly satisfied
Mr. Espinosa that he (namely, the
Spaniard), had never been safer in all his
life than he was now ; then Madam Espinosa
had been very gracious; and also he had
told them some stories which had set them
all laughing, and one tale had so tickled
Mr. Espinosa that he made Mr. Thomas
repeat it ; in short, the three passengers
had tried their best to make him amends for
the injury they had done him in crediting

YOL. II. I

Captain Flanders' suspicion, and had almost
turned his head with their compliments.
Madam Espinosa's politeness pleased him
most : she used to be rude to him and even
laugh at his size ; but to-day she had
flattered him. Indeed, he looked so pleased
that I suspected she must have praised his
togs, perhaps complimented him on his
waistcoats ; and as he had always secretly
thought Madam Espinosa a fine woman,
and as her ridiculing him had wounded his
dandyism beyond anything he would have
liked to own, her praising and complimenting
him now made him feel himself a fine
little fellow indeed.

Mr. Thomas was no Don Juan; but I
once told him that his idea of heaven was
sitting handsomely dressed in velvet and
black cloth in the midst of a circle of stout
tall women. " Tall? yes," he said. " Stout ?
well, stout too. I really think you've hit
it, Lee." But dandy as he was, and peppery
withal, there was no man I ever sailed with
whom I liked better than little Abraham
Thomas.

So, within a few hours after the death

of Captain Flanders, the W alder share was
comfortable fore and aft, the men quiet and
well disposed, full of confidence in the judgment
and skill of their new commander,
and the passengers satisfied and easy in
their minds.

There was some talk between Mr. Thomas
and me of bringing the boatswain aft as
second mate ; but we finally decided, for
several reasons, on leaving him where he
was, and where he was most useful, and on
taking watch and watch, just as though the
captain had been still aboard, during the
rest of the voyage out. Such articles as we
required to carry on the ship's reckoning
we took out of the captain's cabin, and then
Chips made the door fast. It was a cabin
no one would have chosen to occupy after
what had happened in it, and, indeed, no
one cared to loiter near it after dark.

I have often laughed since at my superstitiousness,
but I will own that many a
time, when the cuddy has been lighted by
only one dim lamp, I have gone below in the
middle watch and glanced nervously aft at
the cabin door as it stood dark with the

shadow of the companion steps upon it,
thinking of the dead man's singular belief inspirits,
with an uncomfortable shiver, and
wondering, if there were such things as
ghosts, how they managed at sea, when
every day's reckoning increased the distance
of the body astern from the vessel it belonged
to.

The rattling breeze carried us across the
Line that night, and held until we were as
far south as 4° 24', veering sometimes to
the southward, sometimes to the westward,
sometimes laying our yards hard against the
lee rigging, sometimes falling free and allowing
us to carry topmast and top-gallant
studding-sails. It then failed us, and for a
whole week we lay boxing the yards about
to the catspaws, but always sneaking steadily
forwards, sometimes with barely enough air
to lift the foot of the royal, and across a sea
like burnished brass, which the stem of the
ship broke into a hundred threads.

I remember on one of these nights
standing with Nelly watching the crescent
moon rising like a blood-red Chinese lantern
but of a haze as thick as a cloud in the

south-west. The sea was quite calm ; there
was not a ruffle of air upon it, though
some air there must have been aloft, for
the ship was moving and the phosphorus
was revolving in the eddies of the wake ;
the reflection of the moon in the water
was exactly as though drops of blood were
falling one after the other, and spreading
as if the fluid mingled with the water as it
sank ; the stars were large, but hot and
faint, and the ship lay all in darkness ;
when suddenly we heard a sound like a
great sigh in the air, and presently another,
and then another. One would have thought
that old Neptune himself had risen to make
his moan to Diana ; the sound was surprisingly
plaintive.

I knew what it was, but would not say,
wanting to see the effect on Nelly. She
looked all around and up in the air.

Oh, Will ! what can it be ? " she asked.

Not poor Captain Flanders, I hope,"
said I with a laugh; and, taking her hand,
I led her across the deck.

Where are they?" I inquired of the
fellow at the wheel.

"Yonder on the port beam, sir."
There ! do you see that, Nelly? " I exclaimed;
and there not above a biscuit's
throw from the ship was a large whale or
grampus, just risen, its back like a ship, keel
up, the phosphorus glimmering all around
it, and then it made the sound like a heavy
respiration. Before it vanished another rose
astern, and then another on the starboard
quarter, and then another on the port bow,
until the sea appeared full of them, and
their breathing, mingled with the flap of
the canvas and the wash of the water, and
all the outer effect of the red moonlight
dropping its lustre in the ocean, and the
pale, hazy shine of the stars, and the darkness,
was so impressive that we remained
silent until the last respiration had ceased,
and for some time we could only speak in
whispers.

At last, on a Monday morning, a light
breeze then blowing astern, the white trade-clouds
showed overhead, and by two o'clock
in the afternoon we had got the south-east
trades strong on the port bow ; and away
sprang the ship like a thing possessed,

her tall spars all aslant, the lee rigging
as slack as the clew lines, and the leaping
waters a smother of froth all around her.
We took these trades in 10° S. and 27° W.,
the eastern coast of South America under
our lee, and as I pricked off our course
on the chart and my eye caught the name
of Pernamhuco, I wondered how it had
fared with our Yankee friend, and whether
his taut little barque was still struggling,
like ourselves, with the sea, or safe in
port.

We had a fine run as far as 33° S.,
when we lost the trades ; then picked up a
westerly gale with thick weather, which
gave us double-reefed topsails and streaming
decks for six days ; and now it began to
grow a little chilly, and Senor Espinosa was
not seen often on deck.

Until we had doubled the Horn it seemed
that we were to meet with no further adventures
; everything of note had happened
north of the Line. We did not sight above
three ships during the whole run down the
South Atlantic, and no land but the eastern
coast of the Falkland Islands; and then,

when this land lay a mere blue shadow on
the starboard beam, there being a heavy sea
on, and blowing half a gale of wind from
the north-west, we sighted a little brig
right ahead, bound like ourselves round Cape
Horn.

I had charge of the ship at the time, and
Nelly asked me to run as close to the little
vessel as I dared, that we might be able
to see the people aboard and speak her.
We were overhauling her hand over fist, and
I ported the helm to go to windward of her,
and stood with Nelly at the lee rail to look
at her as we went past. I do not believe that
she was more than a hundred tons burden,
and she was loaded so deep that she seemed
smaller than she was. She resembled a
ship's long-boat. Her topsails were close
reefed, and so low was she in the water
that when she sank in the hollow of a sea
nothing showed but these narrow bands of
sail and her bare yards over them ; indeed,
every time she sank she appeared to have
gone for good ; it was enough to bring the
heart into a man's throat to watch her.
She rolled and pitched frightfully, and her

masts wavered to and fro like a stick in the
hand of a hand-leader.

Just before we got abreast of her she
shipped a whole green sea right over her
forecastle. It was like watching a breaker
on a coast comb over a rock. She was
hidden by the spray and the water, but up
she came again, shaking her side like a dog,
with the bright water streaming out of
every scupper-hole, and pouring out of the
foot of her fore-topmast staysail. She constantly
pitched the whole length of her
rudder out of water, and then up would
fly her bows and heave out ten feet of her
keel into the air.

Her littleness amid the great rolling deep
was enough to impress the memory, aud she
is before my mind's eye now as vividly as
though I had just removed my gaze from
her. When we were about a quarter of a
mile astern of her, she hoisted English
colours ; the flag was run up and blew right
away out over the sea, but when it was
half-mast high they stopped hoisting.

"By George ! " I shouted, " she's in distress
after all ! What on earth shall we be
able to do for her in this sea ? "

But on looking at her through the glass
I found there was a turn in the signal
halliards, and at the same moment they
lowered away the flag, bent it on afresh
and hoisted it chock a block; and as the
meteor flamed at the peak, the plucky little
vessel almost leaped right out of water,
as though she rebuked us for daring to
think that the seas were too much for her.

As we approached, a man wrapped in
oilskins stood upon the bulwarks just abaft
the weather main-rigging, holding on to a
backstay with one hand whilst with the
other he flourished a speaking-trumpet.
When she rolled towards us, the toppling
water stood high above the man's head,
and I expected every minute to see him
washed away. Two men stood at the little
wheel, and a large black retriever dog ran
up and down the deck, barking furiously at
us as we approached.

She proved to be the Betsy, from Monte
Video to Huasco ; and the master, through
his trumpet, asked me for my latitude and
longitude. We passed her too rapidly for
much speaking, and in a few minutes she

was on our lee quarter. I noticed a man
clamber out on the jibboom to snug the
jib, that showed some disposition to blow
clear of its gaskets. Three times whilst he
was there the vessel buried her bowsprit,
and he disappeared under the water, each
time emerging dripping like a drowned rat,
and hove high in the air until he could
have looked down upon the vessel as if she
stood on end on her stern. We watched
her rising and falling, sometimes the whole
of her hull poised on the top of a tall sea,
sometimes even her topsails invisible, until
she vanished in the haze and mist of spray
that thickened the horizon.

This gale carried us down as far as the
latitude of Staten Island ; a dead calm then
followed it, the horizon all around as thick
as pea-soup, and a heavy South Pacific
swell rolling up from the westward.

To know what a heavy swell really means,
one must be becalmed off Cape Horn.
Happily the calms, as a rule, are very
short-lived ; but whilst they last they arc
worse than gales of wind. Being without
steerage way, the vessel falls broadside on,

and rolls both yardarms to the water's edge.
It is impossible to stand without holding
on, it is difficult to sit, it is almost as difficult
to lie. Everything not securely lashed
fetches away. The confusion aboard the
Waldersliare for two hours during this calm
was supreme. We w 7 ere at lunch when
the w T ind suddenly left us, and in a few
moments the vessel had rolled pretty nearly
everything off the table. The steward,
whilst picking up the things on the deck,
cut his hand with a piece of broken glass,
and the pain or the sight of the blood
startling him, he jumped up in a hurry,
was thrown headlong against my chair, and
sent me sprawling. Madam Espinosa, seeing
me disappear, and the vessel rolling at
the same moment with a really awful lurch,
dishing the green water over her quarterdeck
bulwarks, a hundred articles bolting
and clattering to leeward at the same
moment, while the groans and shrieking of
the timbers and bulkheads and cargo of the
whole ship were deafening, uttered a scream,
shouting out, "We're sinking! we're sinking!"
and, in her terror, threw her arms

round the neck of her husband, who received
at the same moment the contents
of a water-jug in his waistcoat, whilst a
large leg of cold roast pork went walloping
down under the table against his legs.
Attacked in this way in the neck, bosom,
and legs, and the slop and temperature of
the deluge of cold water helping to give a
peculiar edge to the shriek of his wife in
his ear, the Spaniard (of whose courage I
have already recorded my opinion) started
up, and, in his effort to free himself from
his wife's embrace, not only tumbled her
over, but fell under the table himself.

So now here were four of us sprawling
upon the deck, whilst the cries of Madam
Espinosa, the execrations of her husband,
the smash of plates and dishes, and, above
all, the frightful straining of the ship, produced
an uproar, and an alarming uproar
too, of a kind no words could furnish any
idea of.

Though it was easy to fall down, it was
extremely hard to get up again ; and as the
steward had vanished to bind up his hand,
and as Mr. Black durst not let go of the

table for fear of rolling under it, and Nelly
was also holding on for dear life, there was
no one to help me pull Madam Espinosa
out and set her on her legs again. However,
heavy as she was, I succeeded in
getting her on to a chair, but I gave myself
no trouble with her husband ; my contempt
of his cowardice stopped me from lending
him a hand, and I let him crawl about
among the dishes until he emerged near
the mizzen-mast with a small cut over his
eye — of which, however, he was not sensible,
until Nelly told him he was bleeding ;
when, putting his hand to his forehead and
bringing it away with blood upon it, he
roared out something in Spanish, and, after
a good deal of reeling and diving, fetched
his cabin and shut himself up.

Soon after I had gone on deck, to keep
a look-out for Thomas whilst he lunched,
I saw that we should not long be bothered
by this calm ; for all away in the quarter
out of which this mountainous swell was
rolling was a long, broad livid cloud, with
a sort of whitish haze hanging about it,
that a man had only to look at to know to

bestow. We had double-reefed topsails and
the foresail set ; but Thomas (coming on
deck to my call), not knowing but that
there was a hurricane in the cloud, sung
out for all hands to shorten sail : and
scarcely were the reef-tackles hauled out,
when the ship lay down like an anchored
buoy in a race-current to a real Cape Horn
blast, with the air so full of snow that it
was like shaking the inside of a feather-bed
over a man, and the air so dark that you
couldn't see the mainmast from the wheel.

In a minute the decks were all white
with snow fore and aft, and the yards,
masts, and standing rigging lined with it ;
the cold was so intense that the tears froze
in one's eyes, and the snow turned to ice
on the decks and made them fit only for
skates. The men aloft on the yards
glimmered in the gloom and through the
blinding fall of snow like snow-figures ;
indeed, it was as if a whole mountain of
snow had fetched away to windward and
was blowing athwart us in broad sheets.

However, the wind was not so fierce but
that we could carry the three close-re fed

topsails and storm trysail ; and though the
snow and the cold and the darkness were
bad enough, yet to my mind they were
not so bad as the calm they had replaced,
for the ship was comparatively steady, and
watching to the southward and eastward
through a sea that was rising quickly.

That the seas off the Horn should be the
heaviest in the world is not surprising when
it is considered that the ocean there completely
belts the globe ; so that a man who
should start, say, abreast of the Horn on
the parallel of 58° could run the whole
length of the longitudinal line, and arrive
back at the point of his departure, without
meeting any other hindrance than ice.

We had a taste not only of the weather,
but of the seas of this part of the globe,
during the next two days ; for after the
snow-squall had passed, the wind settled
down into a heavy gale, and by the first
dog-watch it was blowing so furiously that
we were obliged to heave the ship to under
a close-reefed main-topsail.

It was a fine, clear night, with brilliant
stars, the Southern Cross hanging in full

glory, and the Magellan clouds like small
heaps of luminous dust upon the black-blue
sky to the southward of our royal-masthead.
When the snow cleared off we had sighted
a large iceberg away on the horizon on our
lee quarter, and every time the seas hove
us high we could see it quite plain in the
darkness, like a very faint greenish cloud,
though it was fully seven or eight miles
distant. But the sea was so magnificent
a sight that I made up my mind that Nelly
should see it ; and she came on deck for
the first time that day, as well wrapped upas
a Greenland woman. I dragged her to
windward and stationed her under the
hurricane-house, by which name we distinguished
a square of canvas seized on to
the lower mizz en-rigging to serve the officer
on duty as some protection against the
wind ; and passing the bight of a rope round
her waist, I secured her to a belaying-pin,
for I wanted my own hands, and did not
intend that she should trust to hers, seeing
that when the ship heeled over to leeward
the deck made such a slope that it was like
sitting on the top of a wall and looking

VOL. II. K

down, and that, had she let go, she would
have gone overboard or broken her neck
against the hencoops.

Once secured and safe, and looking about
her, she was speechless for awe and astonishment
; indeed, used as I was to the sea,
I had never seen it so grand and monstrous
as on this night. Every time the ship sank,
the wave to windward appeared to stand as
high as the mizzen-top ; one could only hold
on and look, and stop breathing. The receding
surge left her spars bending to meet
the coming sea, and her deck lay all aslope
ready to receive the ponderous world of
water ; but then, as it came roaring at her,
its flickering top blotting out the stars halfway
to the zenith, the ship would heel away
from it, heel further and further yet, as she
mounted the almost perpendicular mountain
and hung as though some giant hand held
her out at arm's length by the keel, until
she had soared to the summit upon which
for a moment she could lie with a level deck.
And this was the moment to look down
over her side ; for you gazed into a black
pit filled with the roar of raving waters,

and the fierce artillery of expiring foam,
whilst the sea as far as the horizon raged
below like a hilly country viewed from a
mountain. In a moment, as the ship went
down the further slope, she heeled over to
windward, and the forcing of her mast
against the gale multiplied the screaming
and hooting in the rigging, until she had
sunk to the bottom of the hollow, between
the sea that had left her and the sea that
was coming upon her, when the trysail
would flap idly in the calm while the wind
still yelled in her top-gallant and topmast
rigging.

Coming on deck from the cuddy and
witnessing such a sight on a sudden would
have alarmed a hardier mind than even
brave little Nelly's. Below, one could not
have imagined the terror and sublimity of
this mighty Pacific Sea merely from the
sweeping, headlong motion of the sliij>.
However, in a short time her fear passed. L
told her, as well as the uproar would let me,
that the vessel was absolutely under control
and behaving nobly, and bade her take her
till of the sight without any misgiving. I

the ship been sinking, and I had assured her
there was no danger, she would have believed
me. Her confidence in me was the
finest and highest part of her love, and as
she stood holding on my arm whilst I supported
myself by grasping the rigging, I
felt the strength and tenacity our love was
getting out of this voyage that she was
making with me.

For two clays, as I have written, this gale
held, and we lay hove to in the terrific sea,
coming to and falling off as regularly as
the coil of the waves, and going bodily to
the eastwards on the trend of the combers.
On the third clay the gale veered to the
northward, which gave us a beam wind ; and
we made the most of it, as any man may
believe, for we had had as much of Cape
Horn as we wanted, and our frozen toes
aud our frozen tears, which hung literally
like iron on our nipped and weather-beaten
cheeks, made us pine for latitudes lying
nearer the sun.

We had eight degrees to run to the westward
yet before we hauled to the northward,
Mr. Thomas's notion of doubling the Horn

being to pass wide of the Falklands well
to the southward of the Cape, and not to
head north until the ship was in 84° W.,
"fortis rule," said he, "provides against
the nor-nor-western." Our true course now,
therefore, was the sun's, and every evening
he should set over our flying jibboom end ;
but Thomas, for the sake of speed and to
bring the wind and the sea abaft the beam,
did not object to a little southing (our
latitude being 56° 19') ; that is, while the
sky held clear and there was no danger of
running into an iceberg before sighting it.

And so, with a whole gale a couple of
points abaft the beam, and the sea a little
further aft yet, we shook three reefs out of
the main-topsail, set the top-gallant sail
over it, set the double-reefed fore-topsail
and reefed foresail, and these, with the main-trail,
fore-topmast staysail, and inner jib,
ran the Waldershare through it as though
a comet had got her in tow ; she had never
before approached such sailing. She ran
almost as fast as the seas which broke under
her into whole oceans of foam. On either
counter the froth stood as high as che

main-brace bumpkins ; one could almost
have reached a handful of it by bending over
the poop-rail. The rigging, frozen as hard
as iron, stood like crowbars, and our wake
astern ran over the green transparent hills
like a broad white dusty highway over
mountains.

But even this pace would not suit Mr.
Thomas. " We have been two days hove
to," he said, " and becalmed for some hours.
If the ship has it in her she shall make up
for lost time; " so it was "out with more
reefs," the whole main-topsail and foresail
were set, the mainsail reefed and the tack
boarded, the whole watch tailing on to the
jigger and bowing the tack down, until it
seemed as if the deck would be ripped out
of the ship.

This, I remember, was on a Thursday
morning, and the extra canvas had been set
by the time I came on deck a little before
noon with my sextant in hand. All the
passengers were on the poop, for the sun
shone bright — a silvery, brilliant light, without
a particle of heat in it — and over the
steel-blue sky the clouds were driving to the

south in volumes like smoke. Lying in my
bunk, I had felt that the ship was being
furiously driven by the strain and quiver,
the fierce quick trembling, the terrific booming
of the sea like the report of an earthquake,
the ceaseless roaring to right and
left, and the feel of the whole hull as she
made her flying leaps from crest to crest.

But the reality could not be understood
until it was seen, and it was not until I
reached the deck that I began to think my
little shipmate was overdoing it ; that the
mainsail he had set was just the extra
amount of canvas she could not bear, and
that if we didn't bring some of our spars
about us presently we should deserve all the
congratulations we were likely to get.

However, I had to take an observation
before I could look about me, and when
that was done, I put my sextant down and
took a squint aloft with a shake of my head,
for I knew that Thomas was watching me,
though it was not my place to remonstrate in
words. He merely replied to my silent protest
with a grin, and went up to the passengers
rubbing his hands and beating them about

his chest, and looking at Mr. Black and
around him as much as to say, " What
think you of this, ladies and gentlemen ? "
And, indeed, they were as pleased as he, and
I caught Espinosa (who was wrapped in an
immense fur coat, with a cape that came
over his head, in the hairy embrasure of
which nothing was visible but his nose, that
stuck far out and was scaling like the flesh
after a fever, from the cold) nodding with
great delight. But Nelly, who observed
every movement of mine, had seen me shake
my head, and though her eyes sparkled like
diamonds, and her cheeks were as red as
roses under the keen gale, she no longer
looked approvingly at Mr. Thomas.

Suddenly a voice hailed the poop. " Ice
right ahead, sir ! "

I sprang to the rail and thrust my head
overboard to see forward ; and as the ship
soared on a sea there stood on the horizon,
right in a line with our jibboom, a pale
broad outline like a faint greenish cloud.

Shall we go to leeward or to windward
of it, sir ? " I sung out to Mr. Thomas, who
had perched himself on a hencoop and was

looking at the ice with his arm entwined in
the mizz en-rigging.

Why, to leeward, Mr. Lee. Put your
helm over, — so, you have it — keep her at
that now. Can you make out any more of
them, Mr. Lee?"

No, sir," I answered; and hailing the
forecastle, I told one of the men to jump
aloffc and let me know if there were anymore
icebergs in sight ahead. He went as
high as the fore-topmast cross-trees, and
after looking, called out that he could only
see that one.

He had scarcely said this when the maintain
parted with a loud report; the sheet
carried away at the same moment ; a few
seconds after the jib split right in halves,
and then commenced a horrible hullabaloo.
The beating of the canvas was like peals of
thunder or discharges of heavy artillery.
Before half the watch were on their legs the
mainsail was in rags, whipping round and
round the mainstay like parcelling, writhing
about the main rigging, or streaming straight
out in the wind in long whips, while the jib-boom
jumped under trio shattering dance of

the jib, and the hanks rattled on the stay as
though rounds of grape were being fired into
the bows of the ship.

However, though we had lost two sails
our spars were safe, and the ship was as
easy again, though even now she was carrying
all the canvas she needed, and when she
dipped her head she piled the foam over her
top-gallant forecastle, where it was caught
b} T the wind pouring in fury out of the foot
of the foresail, and blown high in the air
and half a mile to leeward. We had men
enough in the watch to make short work of
the shattered canvas, and by the time they
had come from aloft, the iceberg lay broad
on our port bow.

It was one of the largest I had ever seen,
and for shape and colour the finest. The
mind could not conceive anything more
grand and awful in its solitude than this
iceberg. When one sees a number of icebergs
together, the contrast lessens their
impressiveness. You find yourself wondering
which is the biggest, and comparing
their appearance ; and as one courts your eye
away from another, you cannot concentrate

your admiration; and, moreover, the idea
of solitude, that is one of the elements of
sublimity, is not conveyed.

But here, towering upon the water, whose
mighty waves burst against its motionless
sides and veiled the lower part of it in a
haze of spray, was a single iceberg as large
as an island, with glittering peaks pointing
like spires and minarets to the heavens,
the whole gigantic body dwarfing our ship
into a mere jolly-boat ; whilst the sun, that
stood to leeward of us, poured upon it its
light which the flying clouds sometimes
obscured, so that at one moment the huge
and beautiful mass was sparkling as if a
thousand dazzling many-coloured fires had
been kindled among its transparent blue and
green ledges, and in its marble coloured
boulder blocks, and in its luminous ravines,
and in its tali, crystalline pinnacles, whilst
at another moment the gorgeous sparkles
would vanish out of it as though the breath
of the gale had extinguished them all at
once, and the huge shape, under the shadow
of a cloud, would turn to a desolate ashen
grey, the bleaching of the snow on the
summit strongly marked upon the greenish

rock-like transparency of the lower parts,
while every stroke of the sea awoke a hollow
roaring that filled our ears as the ship went
rushing past. It was the only object insight
all around the horizon, and the mere
effect of the loneliness of it upon the
imagination, its resemblance to an island
with spires and outlines of dwelling-places
upon it, and the thought that it was all
solid ice, the most desolate thing in the
world — though a little heat would melt it
all away, so that not a vestige would remain
of that stupendous body, around which the
seas were roaring and beating themselves
to pieces as they might against a granite
coast — filled the mind with thoughts beyond
the power of the strongest pen to express.
As it receded astern it seemed to change
its colour a hundred times over, being atone
time a faint green, then blues and
violets stealing into it, then flashing out
all in a white blaze, then standing like the
summit of a gigantic height of white
marble, whose base was at the bottom of
the sea, until it became at last as we had
first beheld it, a mere pale, faint cloud upon
the horizon.

Chapter III.

THE WATER-LOGGED BRIG.

On Monday, September 16th, we were in
latitude 35° S., and longitude 97° W., having
been blown nearly three hundred miles to
the westward of our course through a
hurricane from the north-east, that caught
us when we were about two hundred and
fifty miles west of Marlborough Island, and
heading for Callao, which port w r e had
reckoned on making by September 20. The
like of that hurricane I had never before
experienced ; but because I have already
given so many close accounts of the storms
we met with, I have purposely skipped it
here, wishing, indeed, to make some haste
to come to that part of my story that
most closely affects myself. Through newspapers,
which afterwards came to hand, I

learnt that the force of the gale had been
felt from Lima to Valdivia along a stretch
of coast upwards of sixteen hundred miles
in length, and that it had caused a known
loss of nearly two hundred vessels, including
a Chilian war-ship ; that the whole
seaboard was strewn with wreckage that
came ashore chiefly down between Cobijo
and Huasco, and that to the westwards the
hurricane was felt as far as the easternmost
of the group of islands which are marked
in the charts as the Low Archipelago ;
so that it may be said to have ravaged
nearly a third of the South Pacific Ocean
extending from the coast of South America
westward as far as the South Sea Islands.

Nothing but Mr. Thomas's skill as a
practical seaman, who knew his ship as
familiarly as a rider knows the horse he
has sat for months, coupled with the magnificent
build and noble sea-going qualities
of the Waldershare, could have saved the
vessel. For two whole days and a night
both he and I honestly believed that every
next plunge she took in the tremendous
seas would be her last. We neither of us

slept, never once shifted our clothes, and
only left the deck to run below and swallow
the food necessary to keep body and soul
together. The wonder of this terrible time
was that even when the gale was at its
height, the sky was as clear as a summer's
day sky in England ; there was not a cloud
to be seen, the sun shone brightly all day
and the heavens were full of stars all night.
The gale began and ended in this brilliant
way, and yet never a fiercer gale blew in
any quarter of the globe ; and to feel the
force of the wind, and to look at the raging
sea, and then to gaze up at the beautiful
sky, was a contrast that filled the mind with
astonishment.

The gale, having blown itself out, left us
all on a sudden on Monday, at three a.m.
We had then nothing on the ship but a
small main-staysail, having furled the maintopsail
when the gale first struck us before
it should be blown out of the bolt-ropes.
The sea then went down with surprising
rapidity, and soon after daybreak we had
got most of the canvas set again. Fierce
as the hurricane had been, it had done us

no hurt whatever ; the ship was as tight
as a cork, not a spar was sprung, and when
we had made sail and hauled everything
taut, and washed and coiled down fore and
aft, the whole ship looked as bright and
smart as if she had just come out of the
dock.

Nevertheless, it was our bad luck, that
though we had been seventy-six days in
performing so much of the voyage as had
been accomplished, we were some hundreds
of miles out of the track of our course ; and
when I came on deck on this Monday morning
at eight o'clock, and saw the sea heaving
in a calm all round, and sparkling under the
hot high sun with a kind of yellowish brilliance,
as though we were afloat on an ocean
of oil, a feeling of strong impatience seized
me, a longing for the land : I was weary,
weary of the eternal water-line circling us
for ever, tired to death of the restless play
of the deck under my feet, and of the perpetual
scene of hull and spar and sail.

The truth was, I was more exhausted
by our late tremendous buffeting, and the
violent anxiety I had shared with Mr.

Thomas, than I was fully sensible of. Moreover,
I had found another source of depression,
in the indication of the barometer ; the
mercury had, indeed, risen, and yet, if I
may so say, there was a want of buoyancy
in it — it expressed a sort of hesitancy ; indeed,
it gave me this idea, that I might look
at it in another half-hour's time and find it
very low again. The mere circumstance of
the sky being a bright blue, and all around
us looking true Pacific weather, brought no
sense of security after the gale that had
blown under a heaven as brilliant as what
we now had.

Still, there was no reason, even if it did
come on to blow again, why we should have
the wind dead on end, and why it should
amount to a gale ; and I owned to myself
that I would rather deal with a gale that
would let us hold our course for Callao than
be humbugging about in this calm.

A hearty breakfast made me feel more of
a man. I came on deck and found Thomas
showing the passengers the position of the
ship upon a chart that he had laid upon the
skylight. He talked like a schoolmaster]

VOL. II. L

teaching pupils geography, and it was impossible
to help laughing at the way in
which Espinosa hung his great nose over the
chart, repeating what Mr. Thomas said in
broken English, like one of a congregation
following a parson reading a prayer.

Mr. Black, however, was not at all satisfied
to learn that we were some hundreds of
miles out of our course.

"I cannot but think, Mr. Thomas," said
he, " with all deference to your better judgment,
that had the sheep's head been laid
towards the land, the gale would have
driven us that way."

But can't you see, Mr. Black, that the
ship's head couldn't have been laid towards
the land — or at least towards that part of it
we want to make — because the hurricane
was blowing direct from that quarter? " exclaimed
Mr. Thomas. " I wonder that a
mathematician like you can't see so simple
a thing as this."

Well, sir, as I have said, with deference,
I am obliged to own that I cannot see it'
replied Mr. Black. " Here, sir, you have a
sheep so constructed as to sail at right

angles with the wind, and I contend, with
humility, that had the ship's course been
adjusted to the wind, and her head pointed
to the land, she'd have gone that way, and
the hurricane would have been powerless to
stop her."

Yes, sir," cried Thomas, warmly, " and
here are you, Mr. Black, with two legs so
constructed as to walk with the wind in
your teeth ; hut if the wind is so strong as
to tumble you over on your hack and oblige
you to throw your coat-tails over your arms
and scud before it, where are you then, Mr.
Black, eh, sir ? What becomes of your construction
and your theories, sir ? "

But the obstinate Scotchman was not to
be convinced; he merely shook his head,
exclaiming, " Vary well, vary well ; I merely
give my opinion with deference," which
was the more annoying to hear, since, as I
have already said, the ship's salvation was
entirely owing to Thomas's practical skill ;
and I will go so far as to say that in my
hands, or even in the hands of a better seaman
than I, instead of three hundred, she
might have been blown five hundred miles
out of her course.

Nelly, who had left the group round the
skylight, had stationed herself near the
quarter-boat, and was looking very earnestly
out to sea. I believed she was admiring
the colour of the water as it rose and fell,
the sunlight falling in silver on the slant of
the swell, whilst in the hollows lay a
shadow of burnished violet. Presently she
came up to me.

"Will," said she, "can you see anything
out there ? "

I looked in the direction she pointed to,
but in consequence of my sight having been
weakened by the long all-night watches I
had been keeping, I could see nothing.

What do you see, Nell ? " I asked.

I fancied I saw just now a line like the
mast of a ship sticking up out of the water
a long way off; but it has disappeared."

I looked again, but could make out nothing,
and believing her to have been mistaken,
I dismissed the subject from my
mind. Meanwhile, the sea lay calm as a
pond over the move of the gradually subsiding
swell, and the sun shone very hot,
but the air was extraordinarily sweet and

balmy, and the water like a looking-glass ;
the quarter-boat that hung over the shipside
was reflected with all its colour and
the sheen of the sun in it, like a boat bottom
up. The counterfeit was startling : every
line clear as in a picture, with not a tremor
to blur it ; and if you looked over, there was
your face watching you some fathoms deep
in the water, that was as transparent as
thin-blown bottle-green glass.

On the forecastle the watch below were
busy in hanging up their clothes to dry, and
all that part of the ship was soon adorned
with a pleasing variety of trousers, coats,
and shirts, slung in rows and dangling in
such a manner as to give one a lively idea
of the different sizes of the men. I called
some hands aft and got the awning spread,
and this made the poop luxurious. Espinosa
lay smoking in an armchair; Madam
Espinosa knitted; Mr. Black flitted about
the deck, making notes in a pocket-book,
stopping to bite his pencil with a frown, and
evidently greatly exercised; and Nelly sal
dreaming with a book in her lap. For my
part I walked the deck languidly, stopping

once or twice to say a word to Nelly, but
never lingering ; for I made it a rule to keep
myself as much as possible to myself during
my watch, when the passengers could seeme.
I was somewhat depressed in spirits,
but I attributed it to the anxiety I had gone
through ; yet I could not rid myself of the
despondency. I felt myself worrying over
something that I could not come at. Sometimes
I wondered if I was going to be ill,
for it was impossible to imagine what it was
that fretted and saddened me.

The morning stole on, and at about
eleven o'clock the white water in the south
became dark, and I saw that a little breeze
was coming down upon us from that quarter.
It was a nice little air, and darkened the
water in a .straight line as it came along,
making it a deep blue, whilst in front of it
lay an oily surface of greenish grey. It
took us aback, as a gale might have done
for the matter of that, for the ship lay like a
log, without an inch of steerage way on her ;
ait in a few minutes we had got the yards
trimmed, and the water began to tinkle
past us.

We had been holding on in this way for
about twenty minutes, when a man who had
come out of the foretop, and was standing
midway on the rigging, looking away on the
starboard bow, with his hand shading his
eyes, sung out, " There's a wreck away
yonder, sir."

On this Nelly left her chair, and coming
to where I stood, looked for a little while,
and, pointing with her finger, exclaimed,
There it is, Will. That's the same thing
I saw before. It is like a pole sticking up."

I rubbed my eyes, but still I could not
see, and, much annoyed, T went for the glass,
and then it was plain enough. I saw two
masts erect in the water, both with square
yards on them ; but, so far as I could make
out, the foremast consisted only of a lower
mast and half a topmast, with a quantity of
confused rigging and spars hanging about it,
whilst the other mast was complete, even
to the royal yard.

Can you see anything of her hull? " I
called to the man, who still stood in the
fore-rigging, looking her way.

No, sir; she looks hull down up here, sir."

Not hull down behind the horizon,
surely ! " I exclaimed to Nelly, whilst I took
another squint through the glass.

What sees it, Mist aire Lee ? " demanded
Espinosa, leaving his chair.

"Why, to all appearance, the wreck of a
vessel," I answered; "but we shall see more
of her presently."

The pace of the Waldershare was so
slow under the light air, which even now
was growing fainter, that three-quarters of
an hour elapsed before the object we had
sighted could be clearly made out by the
glass. It then proved to be the wreck of a
brig, with nothing of her hull visible above
water but her bulwarks, with a raised cabin
aft painted white and a small galley forward.
So far as I could distinguish, she had lost
her jibboom and carried away her fore-top-mast,
that hung down supported by the rigging,
leaving the topsail yard on the cap.
Her sides, like those of our own ship, were
painted green, and this was the reason,
perhaps, why we had not sighted the hull, or
that portion of it that was visible, sooner.

By noon she was distant about one and a

half miles. The little air that had been
stirring about our loftier canvas now completely
died out, and once more the sea took
its aspect of burnished surface, very softly
heaving in quiet folds.

I went below after taking sights, but not
to sleep, for my restlessness and uneasiness
were even stronger upon me now than
before, and to this was added a sort of
nervous excitement. Attributing my bad
spirits to the wear and worry of the past
week, I was mortified to think that a man
so robust as I should be beaten in mere
physical endurance by so small and slender
a figure as Thomas, who was as brisk as a
bird, and had made nothing of a spell of
four and twenty hours on deck in a hurricane
strong enough to blow the eyes out of
one.

I lay in my bunk reading until the
luncheon bell rang, and then got up and
went to the table. I found Nelly full of the
wreck ; and, indeed, the others could find
nothing else to talk about.

"I cannot help thinking, Mr. Lee," said
Nelly (she called me by that name when

others were present, though she sometimes
made a grimace when she pronounced it),
"that there may be people on board that
vessel ; and, do you know, I have been
begging Mr. Thomas to send a boat to her,
just to satisfy my curiosity, and he has
promised to do so if this calm lasts."

But what makes you think there are
people aboard of her ? " I asked.

"It's a mere fancy, I own : but suppose
there should be people in the little white
house on deck — dying, perhaps, or too weak
to crawl out and make signs to us — how
dreadful it would be to sail away and leave
them!"

She looked at me wistfully and longingly
with her fine eyes ; it was just as if she had
said, " Oh, Will, I may be right : isn't it our
duty to send a boat ? "

The question to me is," said Mr. Black,
"whether by sending a boot to the vessel
we should not be losing time if the wind got
up ? "

Oh, Mr. Black, what is the loss of a few
hours, even a few days, compared to saving
a human life ! " exclaimed Nelly.

"True," said Mr. Black, reflectively;
true, Miss Maitland. That's a redaction
that deserves consideration."

But suppose, if there are people onboard,
they should be dead?" said Madam
Espinosa.

Why, then we should know they are
dead," I answered.

Yes, but you wouldn't bring the dead
bodies away, would you ? " she cried.

Perhaps not," said I.

Sere have been two said body already,"
said Espinosa, holding up two fingers. " My
vise is right — more we do not want."

However, Nelly seemed to think there
might be people aboard, and kept on saying
there could be no harm in sending a boat,
and talked so earnestly about it, that I said
I would go on deck and have a look at the
vessel, and see what Mr. Thomas thought.
So, when I had finished my lunch, I went on
the poop, and Nelly and the others came;
after me ; for the truth was, our conversation
had kindled our curiosity, and I was as
willing that a boat should be sent as any
of them.

The moment Thomas saw me, he dived
for his lunch — no man ever loved eating
better, though he was no glutton — and I
took the glass and very leisurely had a long
look at the brig. Lying within a mile and
a half of us, the glass brought her close
alongside, so to speak ; and I now perceived
that her cargo was timber, her deck-load
standing nearly flush with the rail of her
bulwarks, and that she was sunk to within
an inch or two of her scuppers, her bulwarks
being hove clear above the water. So far
as I could judge by examining her thus, she
appeared a vessel of about two hundred tons
burden. She had one boat hanging at the
starboard davits literally broken in halves,
the keel amidships gaping open like the
beak of a bird, but the falls on this side
were overhauled and the blocks buried in
the water, and her long-boat was gone.

She appeared to have been a taut little
brig, by the stay of her masts and the
general character of her gear and spars ; her
lower rigging had a wide spread, like a ten-gun
brig's, and her tops were also large for
her size, and her topsail and lower yards

were long, heavy, and powerful spars. The
canvas lay furled snugly enough on the
yards, and the only injuries which she had
sustained up aloft were the loss of her fore-topmast,
half of which hung up and down
with the royal-masthead resting on the
deck, and her jibboom, of which no fragment
remained. She was full of water, and
was only kept afloat by the timber in her ;
but though she rose and sank to the swell,
her high and very solid bulwarks kept the
run of the sea clear of her decks, and full as
she was, yet there was a certain spring in
her very wallowing that made me fancy
the time was when nothing lighter than
that same half-sunk and stupefied little brig
had ever danced and frolicked over the
ocean wave.

Nelly and the others stood around me
whilst I examined the wreck, and when I
put the glass down, my sweetheart wanted
to know if there were any signs of life to be
seen?

No," I answered; "if there are any
people aboard of her they are in one of the
houses on deck."

"But do you think there are any people
on board ? " Mr. Black asked.

How can I tell without going to look,
Mr. Black ? Miss Maitland's idea is there
may be one or more persons dying in the
cabin yonder, or too exhausted by suffering,
or by hunger and thirst, to crawl out and
show themselves ; and although I think that
the chances are fifty to one against our discovering
anybody living, yet, as there are no
signs of a breeze, I do not know why we
should not lower a boat. What you have
to consider is, yonder vessel may have been
knocking about as you see her for weeks,
for she looks to be a strongly built craft, and
would take even more than the hurricane
we have experienced to break her up ; in
which case, if there are people aboard of her
they may be starving to death."

Well, then, if that's the case we should
be acting like pagans not to send a boat'
said Madam Espinosa ; and that was the
general opinion when Mr. Thomas came on
deck.

Nelly immediately began with him, repeating
my arguments. He laughed and

looked around the horizon, exclaiming,
What do you think, Mr. Lee ? is she
worth boarding ? "

Why, I might jump into one of the
boats with a couple of hands, just to satisfy
the ladies," I answered, smiling at Nelly.

Very well," said he; and hailing the
boatswain, he sung out to him to send some
hands aft to man and lower the starboard
quarter-boat. I was in the act of getting
into the boat when Nelly, who had disappeared
in a violent hurry, came running
up to me with a soda-water bottle containing
brandy, which I suppose the steward
had filled for her. " Should you find anybody
ill you may require this," said she,
thrusting the bottle into the pocket of my
coat. Then, seeing the men grinning, she
blushed a deep scarlet ; but Mr. Thomas
came to her rescue with, " That shows real
foresight, Miss Maitland ; but it is not every
lady who thinks of poor Jack as you do ; "
on which the boat was lowered into the
water and we shoved off.

A couple of hands pulled the boat. She
was heavy enough to need four had there

been any wind, but it was so calm and
breathless that a boy might have sculled
her ; so calm and so breathless, indeed, that
when, being a few lengths from the ship,
I turned to look at her, I beheld one of the
fairest sights of reflected beauty that placid
water ever offered to the eyes. Such was the
transparency, or rather I should say the
reflecting power of the surface of the deep,
that the W alder share seemed fixed in a vast
sheet of looking-glass grooved where she lay
to receive her beautifully moulded hull,
leaving exposed the swell of her sides and
the delicate curves of her bows and stern,
but duplicating in its steel-like depths with
exquisite accuracy every portion of her —
from the green bend at the silvery edge of
the water up to her ro T al-masthead — so that,
from the point at which I looked at her,
there lay just beneath the ship the perfect
form and figure of an inverted vessel, with
the sails gleaming like ivory as they hung in
the delicate blue, and every glint of the sun,
and the fiery lines in her masts, and her
glittering gilt figure-head, with the white jibs
suspended without a swim or quiver of the

perfect outlines, reproduced with an added
glow or gleam of colour such as one sees in
the reflection of an object in a soap-bubble,
or on the silver plate of a daguerreotype.
Once, when she rolled, she threw a few
ripples from her side, in which her lovely
inverted image quivered as if a haze of heat
had tarnished for a moment the polished
surface of the mirror ; and then the picture
brightened forth again and hung so steadily,
that no painted ship on canvas, with its
outline hanging beneath it, could be more
quiet.

She looks a real beauty," said the man
nearest to me, as though speaking to himself.


Hallo ! " I exclaimed, facing the wreck
and looking to the right of her : " yonder's
a breeze of wind, or I am much mistaken ; "
for the edge of the horizon all that way was
dark.

Only another caspar, I reckon, sir,"
said the man in the bow, half turning his
head, but without looking. " I allow there's
not much wind left in the sky after last
week's job."

VOL. II. m

Give way cheerily, men, and let's board
that hooker," I sung out. "I don't fancy
there'll be much to see."

Suddenly we were hailed from the Walder
share.

'Vast rowing ! " I called out, for the
sound of the oars in the thole-pins prevented
me from hearing. I stood up.

Hallo!" I shouted back.

"D'ye see that breeze coming down
yonder ? " I could hear Thomas sing outstanding
on the hencoop near the davits,
and his small voice stealing along the
smooth surface of the water in a very thread
of sound.

"Ay, ay!" I shouted; "we'll be back
before it can hurt us. Now then, my lads! "
And once more the two men bent their
backs to the oars. Before we had reached
the brig, however, the breeze was all around
us ; it took the Walder share aback, but
she hauled her foreyards round, and when
she had filled, backed her main-topsail and
lay waiting for us. Indeed, the breeze had
come down rather more rapidly than might
have been expected, and the men began to

find the big quarter-boat so heavy on their
oars, that had it not been for Nelly's
extreme anxiety that the wreck should be
boarded, I would have dropped the errand
and returned to the ship.

The brig smoothed and sheltered the
water for some considerable distance under
her lee, and the nearer we drew to her the
easier it became to impel the boat. The
water under her, being unruffled, was as transparent
as the rest of the sea had been in the
calm, and in the cool, green, translucent
depths the whole of her submerged hull,
from her forefoot down to the bottom of her
stern post, was perfectly visible each time
she rolled away from us, showing indeed a
very pretty model, with peculiarly fine and
graceful lines, and sheathed with new metal.

Alongside of her, and with her gunwales
just below the surface of the water, was a
boat, still slinging at the davits, or at least
with the fall-blocks hooked in her bottom.
When I had first noticed these falls drooping
into the water, I supposed that they had
been overhauled in order to lower the boat,
and that she was gone ; but now that we

were arrived close to the vessel, I observed
that the tackles were jammed in the davit-blocks,
and that the boat, having been
lowered to the water's edge, had filled before
they could unhook her ; and the brig, in
settling down to the point at which she now
lay, had submerged the boat alongside as
far as the falls would let her go.

There was the body of a man lying under
the thwarts, which prevented the corpse
from floating out. The water was so clear,
as I have said, that it gave an extraordinary
sharpness to the features and outline of the
body as though it lay under a brilliant
diminishing glass ; yet there was enough
disturbance caused in the water on either
side of the brig by the breeze, that was
freshening into a small wind, to agitate the
depths into which we looked, the result of
w 7 which was to give several changes of expression
to the face of the dead man, and to
make the action of the countenance so lifelike
that he seemed to be speaking .

On getting alongside the wreck I told the
men to remain in the boat, and jumped
aboard with the end of the painter in my

hand, which I hitched around a belaying-pin.
I knew enough of timber to see at a
glance that the vessel's cargo consisted of
New Zealand pine planks — at least, the
planks on deck were of this wood — and they
stood up to a considerable height against
the bulwarks, which were very high and solid
for so small a vessel, being at least five feet
from the water ways. The sea had capsized
and tumbled them forward, but amidships
they still remained stowed, and offered a
surface very nearly as smooth as a deck.
The deck-cabin was right aft, and the end of
these planks came to within a yard of the
entrance to the house, leaving the deck on
either side of it and all about the wheel clear.
There were four little windows on each side
the deck-house, with a door facing forward,
and the top of it, that was led to by a flight
of steps, was protected by an iron railing, so
that a very good look-out could be kept
from it, and it was as commanding in its
way as a poop.

The cabin door was shut, and I opened it
not without a feeling of awe and expectation,
for Nelly's belief that there were live

persons aboard possessed me strongly, and
the sight of the dead man in the boat alongside
had not a little sharpened the feeling.

The cabin was divided by a stout bulkhead
running fore and aft it. This bulkhead
partitioned off on the starboard side
three little berths or cabins, each having a
low door which obliged me to stoop to enter
it, and each fitted with a bunk, though in the
aftermost cabin there was slung a hammock.
The other part of the house, that on the port
or left-hand side, was a living room, having
a long mahogany table that sliced up and
down on stanchions, with several stout
wooden chairs around it.

However, without paying much attention
to these details, I entered the cabins one
after the other, looked into the bunks, felt
the hammock, and satisfied myself that
there was nobody living or dead in that
part of the brig. I then went forward,
noticing as I hastened that the wind had
freshened into a good breeze, and that the
little runners were tumbling against the
weather bulwarks of the vessel with a brisk
play of foam. But had it blown twice as

hard I should have felt no uneasiness, for
the water was still smooth enough, the
Waldershare to leeward, and the wind
would run the boat down to her almost
without requiring us to use the oars.

The house just abaft the foremast was,
as I had supposed, no more than the caboose,
or galley, and nobody was in it. The deck-load
covered the fore hatch, but just beyond,
the deck was clear as far as the bows of the
vessel, and in the middle was the fore-scuttle.
There was evidently, then, a forecastle below
for the men, and I kneeled down and looked
into it; but it was pitch dark, though I
could just catch a glimpse of the sheen of
water as the wreck rolled.

The bows of the vessel being higher out
of water than the rest of her, and as, in consequence,
the water in the forecastle was
some two or three feet below the comings
of the hatch, I thought there might be a
bare chance of some one being alive in a
hammock slung close against the deck, or in
one of the upper tier of bunks. I accordingly
called out, " Is there anybody below
there ? " but no answer was returned, and I

hailed three times, listening with eager
attention for any murmur or groan that
might follow; but all was as still as death,
save now and again the gurgle of the water
as the hull swayed.

I lingered longer here than my judgment
should have permitted me, listening and
wondering if anybody could be alive down
there, though insensible or too weak to speak,
and debating whether I could do any goodby
descending the steps to the water's edge,
and groping and feeling about me as far as
my arm would extend. However, it looked
a dreadful hole to go even but a few steps
down into in the dark, and perhaps only to
touch a hammock and to feel a dead man in
it ; so, after reasoning a while, I rose and
came away to get into the boat.

I went to the belaying-pin to which I had
made the painter fast, with the intention of
hauling the boat alongside, when, to my
inexpressible consternation, I found that the
line had slipped over the pin and had gone
away overboard. I sprang on to the bulwark,
and looking over, discovered that the boat
was adrift and was above fifty feet to leeward,

and that one of the men was dozing in the
stem-sheets, whilst the other sat on the
amidships thwart, absorbed in the contents
of a little volume that he held close to his
nose.

I immediately halloed at the top of my
voice, on which they both started up with
gestures of alarm, and after looking about
them hurriedly seized their oars. The
boat's head was pointed towards the ship,
and the breeze had caught her and was
driving her to leeward at a rate that every
moment alarmingly increased her distance
from the brig. The man pulling the bow
oar strained every nerve to get her head
round against the sea (that was now all of
a wobble) and the wind, whilst the other
backed water ; but just when they had got
her beam broad to the wind, the fellow in
the bow suddenly went head over heels into
the bottom of the boat, and as in falling he
jerked his arms up, I observed that only the
stump of the oar remained in his hands — in
other words, he had snapped the oar in
halves. The boat's head instantly fell off.

At this moment I recollected that we had

shoved off with only two oars in the boat,
owing to the other oars having been sent
forward to be scraped, and as the men had
bnt one oar, I knew that if my salvation
was to depend upon the boat reaching the
brig again I was a doomed man. However,
my momentary consternation had passed,
and recollecting myself, I shouted to the
men to get aboard the ship as fast as they
could, and return to the brig with more
oars and more men. They heard me plain
enough, and yet what must the fools do but
throw the sound oar over the stern and,
getting the boat's head towards the brig,
begin to scull.

I shouted to them again, stamping my
foot with anger and impatience, but they
would not give over. One of them called
back, " Hold on, sir ! we think we shall be
able to manage it," though they might as
well have attempted to take the brig in tow,
for every moment they were losing ground,
and every moment the breeze was strengthening
; and, to make matters worse, right
away down in the quarter whence the breeze
was blowing a whole squadron of clouds

was coming up. They were white now with
the sun upon them, hut they were big and
woolly and full, with a windy shimmer in
their skirts, and astern of them was a long
low line of white cloud, so that all that way
the weather began to look squally enough
to make me feel desperately anxious.

Seeing the two men still madly struggling
to scull the boat against the increasing sea,
an idea occurred to me. I sprang on to the
bulwark, and looking into the boat, that hung
with her back broken at the davits, I found
three oars in her, one of which I seized, and
running with it to the other side of the deck,
I darted it, as I would a harpoon, with all my
force towards the boat. The wind helped
it, and it fell some distance to leeward of the
brig, but a long way this side the boat ; and
now, no sooner had I thrown it than I saw
that it was the maddest thing I could have
done, for the men would try to reach the
oar, which they would be no more able to do
than reach the brig, and this would prolong
their useless struggle against the wind and
sea, when, had they had one grain of sense,
they would have steered the boat down to

the ship that lay right dead to leeward and
that could not be missed, and got help, and
rowed back to me whilst the sea was yet fit
for a boat.

They continued their struggle for sometime,
but finding that all their labour only
resulted in their drifting further and further
away from the brig and the oar, and probably
being fatigued, and judging the state of
mind I was in by my cries and gesticulations,
and also no doubt beginning to fear that if
they were not sharp they would not be able
to fetch the Walder share, they turned the
boat's head round and, to my inexpressible
relief, sculled away for the ship.

My whole attention was now directed to
the movements of the vessel. She w r as too
far off to enable me to see what they were
doing aboard, but I every moment expected
to perceive the starboard quarter boat lowered
and pulling towards me ; and why this
was not done I could not conceive, unless
they were puzzled by our movements, and
imagined I had some motive in stopping on
the wreck. But would not they see that
the men had lost an oar by their sculling

the boat ? or would they believe that the
men sculled to save the trouble of pulling,
and because the wind and sea were running
them down to the ship as fast as their oar
could ?

By this time the wind was whistling over
my head shrilly, and the sea was tumbling
in a way to heave a nasty lump of green
water now and again over the weather bulwark.
The advance guard of cloud had
risen with surprising rapidity and was now
overhead, the sky was all heavy with passing
clouds from the horizon to the zenith, and
what looked to be a heavy squall was coining
up hand over fist along with the wind and
darkening the sea in the south.

The boat danced upon the surges in a
manner that made her more often hidden
than visible ; so far as I might judge she
had half a mile to go to fetch the ship.
Aboard the Waldersliare the wind waa
making itself felt, and with her topsail to
the mast she heeled over in such a way as
to expose half the metal on her bottom.
On a sudden and all in a hurry they began
to shorten sail: all three royal and topgallant

sails were clewed up at once, and
the flying jib hauled down ; and the rigging
was presently dotted with little black figures.
In a few minutes she took in her staysails
and outer jib, brailed up the mizzen and
furled the crossjack.

I could not now discern the boat, though
she was no longer the object of my anxiety;
my whole attention was centred in the ship.
What would she do ? There was such a
topple of sea rising as would make it impossible
for any boat to row to windward,
and the only way for them to rescue me
from my perilous position was to brace up
sharp, make a short board to windward,
heave to abreast of the wreck and drop a
boat down, then run to leeward and receive
the boat, as had been done in the case of the
Jessie Jackson.

All this time I remained calm and
collected, and do not remember that I was
sensible of any great uneasiness. Indeed,
what had happened had all come about too
suddenly to give my mind time, so to speak,
to reason upon my situation ; and besides, I
had the utmost confidence in Mr. Thomas's

seamanship, and had no doubt that he would
find some means to take me off the wreck.
What troubled me most was the alarm that
Nelly would feel, and her self-reproaches for
having been the cause of my making this
unhappy adventure. But I also knew that
Thomas would not let her grow too despondent,
and I kept on saying to myself, " In a
short while she and I will be talking about
this, and making light of it, as another
picturesque incident of our voyage."

The Waldersliare swung her rnainyards,
and, just as I expected, braced them sharp
up and headed on a line that made an angle
with the brig. By this I judged she had
picked up her boat, and it made me feel
more satisfied to think that they knew by
this time how it happened that I was left on
the wreck. I gazed at her so intently that
I never thought of looking to windward, but
seeing her haul up the mainsail and let go
the mizzen-topsail halliards, I turned my
head and saw the sky all black and the sea
all white with a furious squall. Before I
could have sung out it was aboard. It came
first in a sheet of rain that blew along in a

smoke ; the water boiled and frothed under
the mere weight and fury of this deluge ;
the wind howled with the voice of a tornado,
and there was one, but only one, sharp
glare of lightning, followed by a loud crack
of thunder.

I watched the smoke of the rain, myself
soaked to the skin, discolouring the blue of
the sky, until it reached the Walder share y
when she vanished, and ah around there
was darkness like evening. I now recalled
how my mind had misgiven me on looking
at the barometer before I quitted the Waft
der share. Had it fallen since ? What was
it indicating now ? I believe I would have
given two years of my life to have known.
Indeed, the gloom, the howling of the wind,
and the rising seas, which were beginning
to pour over the bulwarks of the submerged
hull like breakers on a shore, were doing
their work in my mind, and from that hour
I date the frightful time of suspense I was
now to endure.

In order to escape the water that poured
over and along the decks every time the
hull rolled, I mounted to the top of the

deck-house, where, indeed, my footing was
safe, though I was exposed to the full fury
of the wind and the rain. What with the
darkness and the haze of rain and spray
lashed up out of the sea, and swept upwards
and forwards by the wind, I could not see
further than the length of the brig around
rne. There likewise seemed every prospect
of another gale blowing ; at all events, we
were in the right seas for sudden and violent
gales ; and when I reflected that should
anything approaching the gale we had
recently experienced arise, the Walder share
would certainly be blown out of sight, and
that between me and the bottom of the sea
was only the almost sunken hull of a vessel
which another tempest might tear to pieces,
my heart sank, the whole horror and peril of
my situation rushed upon me. I thought of
Nelly, and was unmanned, and hid my face
in my hands, while the rain poured through
my fingers, and the heavy, dreadful rolling
of the water-logged wreck kept the floods
upon the deck boiling and seething against
the bulwarks.

However, I was a sailor and used to

VOL. II. n

danger, and, being young, I could not long
remain a stranger to hope. I struggled with
my despair and presently mastered it, and
remembering the brandy that Nelly had put
in my pocket, I drew the cork and swallowed
a dram, which relieved me from the sickly
sensation of cold that was caused by the
furious wind pouring through my streaming
clothes.

I pulled out my watch and found it hard
upon four o'clock, and what may seem
strange in a man circumstanced as I was,
I wound up my watch, reasoning that I
might forget to do so later on, and then it
would stop, and I should be without time.
Though I reasoned, I say, yet I believe the
action in the first place was mechanical too ;
which I think is worth noting, as showing
tli at one has instincts which forebode events
and provide for them without any operation
of the brain, or at all events without any
sensible concurrence of the thinking part of
the mind. Be this as it may, I gave a
violent start when I found it to be four
o'clock, for that would leave me only a very
few hours longer of sunlight, and now God

knows I was beginning to dread the
approach of night, as though I was to find
my grave in it.

The squall lasted for at least half an hour,
during all which time the rain fell in
torrents. The wind drove it all aslant ; but
even had there been no rain, the air would
have been as thick as mud with the haze of
the spray from the sea, that was now breaking
heavily against the side of the brig, and
blowing over in clouds like dust. It then
grew lighter, and the horizon widened, and
I saw a rift of blue sky to windward ; at the
same moment a whole gale of wind came
thundering down that swept the sea of the
rain and the gloom, and cleared it like
magic down to the water-line, where I saw
the W alder share, about two points before
the beam of the brig — in other words, right
away down to leeward — as dead that way
as she could well be, between four and five
miles distant, having evidently put her
helm up to receive the first shock of the
squall: and there she lay, with her head
at south-west, under a close-reefed maintopsail
rising and falling, and, whether

watching* or not, making, as I guessed,
such leeway as must drive her out of sight
before sunset unless she made more sail.

My anxiety at the sight of her rose to a

passion that was like at one moment to

drive me frantic. I looked to windward.

The gale that had blown on the previous

week had come with a bright clear sky, but

this wind was storming under a sky like

marble, all white and grey and veined with

blue, and looking a desperately hard and

stony sky. I could not in the least imagine

what the weather would be by staring at it ;

but this I knew, that unless the Walderskare

could manage to ratch to windward she

stood the chance of losing sight of the brig

in the long night, and then God knows

what the end of it all w T ould be. Now and

again the sun shone through the rifts, and

threw a dazzling beam upon the sea ; but

these glimpses of splendour only appeared

to give a new edge and spite to the wind,

that had settled into a heavy, steady blow,

and every sea that ran poured in a deluge

Beaching, or fore-reaching ; that is, forging ahead
when close-hauled. — W. C. E.

of sparkling green water right over the
hull.

As yet the top of the deck-house on which
I stood remained untouched, though, to
guard myself against the fall of a higher sea
than the rest, I took a turn round my waist
with a rope's end and secured myself to the
iron railing. Moreover, the main-top still
offered me a refuge should the seas grow
greater; though whether the toppling Pacific
surges which were grinding the sunken
and helpless hull among them would not
presently rend her in pieces, and scatter
her bones all abroad, was more than I dared
venture to speculate upon.

All this while my eyes remained glued on
the Waldershare. I dreaded to take my
gaze off her, lest when I looked again she
should be gone ; and this fancy will show to
what degree my mind was affected by my
peril. I wondered whether she would be
able to see the wreck amid the haze of spray
that smoked over her through the constant
beating of the seas, and I kept on asking
myself, " What will Thomas do? He must
not let his ship drift to leeward like that.

Were it blowing ten times as hard, he ought
to be sailor enough to know how to hold his
ground near me and keep me in sight ! "
And then I considered, what would I do if
I were in his place ? and sometimes I would
shout out and shake my hand at the ship,
for although I knew what I said and did, I
had no control over my passions ; and not
only my being exposed to the wind and the
ceaseless lashing of spray, wet through and
with the war of the elements thundering in
my ears, in a manner to deafen me and
make my head crazy, but the sight of the
green seas pouring in mountains over the
wreck, and leaping up in a play of luminous
spears and pinnacles and points which
the wind shattered into spume that blew
whizzing into the air, was enough to deprive
me of all nerve and make me act like
a child.

About twenty minutes after the horizon
had cleared, I saw them loose the fore-top-sail
aboard the W alder share and sheet it
home. My heart leapt up at this sight, for
I supposed they had made out the brig to
windward, and that Thomas meant to drive

the ship to the southward, let it blow as it
might. Shortly afterwards they boarded
the fore tack. This raised a smother of
foam at her bow, and even at that distance
I could perceive, when she rose to the sea,
the water strike her side and flash in a
quiver and veil of fog right over her. Close-hauled
as she was, in order to keep her full
and watching they would require to give her
an easier helm, and although she was a
heavy ship, yet I knew from experience
that under her present canvas, and with
the trend of the sea, she would not make
less than three and a half points leeway,
and every point would tell against meas
diminishing her chance of coming to
windward of the brig before the darkness
fell.

There was a whole lifetime of anguish
and bitterness of spirit in my heart as I
watched her. There was not a sailor aboard
of her but would know that I was in a
position of the most desperate peril; and
many of them, I have no doubt, imagined
that should they ever succeed in boarding
the wreck I should not be found on her, for

few would believe I should long be able to
keep my footing on a hull over which the
sea was foaming as though she had been
a sunken rock. It was harder to see to
windward than to leeward; and therefore,
although I could make out the ship plainly
enough, yet I doubted whether they would
be able to distinguish me, even with the
glass, amid the spray that veiled the deck-house.
I thought of Nelly and the misery
of her mind as she strove in vain to discern
with her bare sight the masts of the submerged
hull on which I, who was so dear to
her, sat dreading that every moment would
bring me my death.

For the first time for many minutes I
removed my eyes from the ship to look to
windward to see what chance there was of
this gale abating, and I humbly think it was
God's will I should turn my eyes in that
direction at that particular moment ; for
there, about a quarter of a mile from the
hull, was a monstrous sea rearing its dark,
unbroken head like a mountain among hills,
bearing down with frightful speed upon the
brig. Knowing how that weight of water

would serve rue, and uttering a loud involuntary
cry, as if every instinct in my nature
believed it too late, and in its passion had
forced the cry from me, I threw the rope
that lashed me from my waist and with one
bound gained the main rigging, up which I
sprang. I was just in time, and my life was
saved. The sea, standing ten feet higher
than the bulwark, rolled sheer over the
brig, burying her as high as half-way up her
mainmast. The crash and thunder of the
shock cannot be expressed ; it tore half the
deck-load out of her, and I saw the white
pines gleaming in the bottle-green and
polished curl of the mighty comber as they
went up and over into the sea beyond. The
broken boat hanging at the davits was swept
away as though it had been a chip of wood.
I thought the hull had gone to pieces ; she
rolled on to her beam ends, she buried both
her lower yards to within a few feet of the
slings, and such was the declination of her
masts that I, standing on the ratlines just
below the main-top, sprawled flat upon my
chest against the shrouds, almost, indeed, as
though I lay upon a horizontal surface.

She righted with her decks full of foam,
amid which the loosened pines flashed to
and fro, some leaping overboard as though
darted by a haud. I got into the top, where
I lashed myself securely and took another
draught of brandy. Here, being to leeward
of the head of the mainmast, I found myself
somewhat sheltered, and sitting myself
down, I remained watching the movements
of the Walder share.

They had now got the main-trysail on
her and the inner jib ; they had also set
the mizzen-topsail. It was as much as I
could do to make out this canvas', and then
only when the sunshine streamed on her;
though, being now a good height above the
deck, I had a good sight of her, and my view
was less clouded by the spray. Presently
she hoisted her main top-gallant sail. All
this canvas meant that Thomas was driving
her ferociously, and I watched her passing
like a cloud along the rugged water-line,
gradually fining down in the westwards
until I lost sight of her hull and only her
canvas glimmered like a pale star.

So far as her movements were concerned

I felt no particular uneasiness ; for, miserable
and bitterly despondent as I was, I could
judge that Thomas was right in choosing to
make a long board to the westwards in order
to fetch the brig on the starboard tack by
another board, sooner than attempt to beat
to windward against such a sea as was now
running in short tacks. Yet one risk it was
reasonable I should be quicker to see than
he, and that was that, the night being close
at hand, he stood to lose sight of the brig
altogether by holding on to the port tack
too long ; and therefore I sat watching the
pale shadow of her sails with an intensity
that made me sick and dizzy, until the
horizon swayed up and down as if the whole
deep were composed of a single wave, until
a darkness was begotten to my sight by the
steadfastness of my gaze that affrighted me
into a quick and bewildered glance around,
for I believed the darkness real, and that
the night I so bitterly dreaded was come
indeed.

It still blew a strong gale, but the wind
no longer came thundering down in puffs.
To windward the sky looked brighter, but it

was marbled with the stony clouds from
horizon to horizon, and there was a hardness
in the character of the light and in the
clear-cut running of the water-line, and the
green of the water had a wintry sharpness.
I was too experienced a sailor not to read
these signs aright ; they meant that the gale
was not going to blow itself out in an hour,
though no worse than what was happening
now might follow.

I drew out my watch and found that it
wanted twenty minutes to six. In about an
hour and a half the sun would have set, and
in these latitudes the twilight was of such
brief duration that it was not to be reckoned.
It turned me sick to reflect upon the rapidity
with which the last hour and a half had
flown by, but I would not despair. I knew
that whilst the Waldershare held together
Mr. Thomas would keep by me until the
weather moderated sufficiently to let him
send a boat, and I comforted myself as well
as I could by reflecting that before he lost
sight of me in the darkness he would carefully
take the bearings of the wreck, and by
dead reckoning or by observation determine

lier position, and so in the morning pick her
up again easily; for the brig's drift would
be small, and he would know how much to
allow for it.

Yet the prospect of passing a night on
the wreck was unspeakably dreadful to me ;
and I prayed God that if I was not to be
released before next day, the wind and sea
might go down, so that I could take the
shelter of the cabin, for even now I felt
numbed and cramped to the bones, with the
force of the wind up in the main-top
blowing into my flesh through my wet
clothes. The Walder share was still insight,
and remaining so — nay, even growing
a more defined form upon the horizon,
whence I judged that she had gone about
and was heading my way. She was indeed
only a pale burr upon the distant sea, like
the tip of the white wing of a sea-bird
projected above the water-line, and she
might have been standing east or west,
instead of to where the brig lay, for all
I could have told, had I not, by foreseeing
her movements, clearly understood
that she had stayed, and meant to fetch

the wreck by a board on the starboard
tack.

I considered how her head would he, how
close she would be able to bear up for me ;
and this made me turn to observe how the
wind was blowing, widen, to my unspeakable
dismay, I found it had hauled, even whilst
I had been speculating on the course of the
Waldershdre, at least four points to the
eastwards ; so that if the ship held on to the
starboard tack, she would arrive almost at
the very point from which she had started,
whilst if she went about, and got her port
tack aboard, she would haul out to the
southward, and in either case be a long
way to leeward of me.

This was a dreadful blow, and made me
almost mad, for now it was quite certain I
was doomed to remain on the wreck for the
night ; and I buried my head between my
arms, and yielded like a woman to my grief
and despair.

So in this way the time wore on. I felt
neither hunger nor thirst. The roar of the
seas as they foamed over the deck below,
and the howling of the wind, were always in

my ears, and now that I knew that I was to
pass the night on the brig, the sight of the
ship — a pale gliding speck far down in the
north-west — gave me no longer any hope ;
it was only like an illusion of the sight
which my heart had detected and was cruelly
fretting over ; it only served to increase the
desolation of the world of waters which
foamed for leagues and leagues around me,
and to give an edge to the horror with
which I contemplated the coming of the
night.

The sun went down, and flushed the
clouds with pink to the very zenith ; its
light shone red upon the dancing seas of
the horizon over the stern of the brig, and
the cloud-like sail in the north-west turned
as red as the canvas of a smack, and
quivered like a flame on the hard, dark-green
tumble of the deep : and as the sunset
paled in the west, the beacon on which my
eyes were fixed expired, and the gradual
gloom came creeping up over the frothing
ocean, until the horizon melted in t]\o sky,
and the outline of the sunken hull below me
was visible only in the Hashing of the foam,

and the greenish glare of the phosphorus
as the surges poured over and over it, whilst
the stars winked hazily in the rifts overhead,
and the air was filled with the desolate
storming of the gale and the w T earl, eternal
crashing of warring waters.

Chapter IV.

THE LONELY DEEP.

When the darkness first fell and the
Walcler share faded in the gloom, I felt
like a man that had been drugged with an
opiate, quite stupefied and silly, and there
were moments when I could not bring
myself to believe that my present condition
was indeed a reality. I said to myself, "It
will all pass presently, and then I shall be
looking back and exclaiming, How life-like
was that vision ! " But happily this confusion
of mind did not last long — indeed, it was a
kind of madness, and had it stayed it would
have become a downright madness ; and I
honestly believe that the clearance was
caused by my doing what I did but too
seldom — I mean by praying : for I knelt me
down in the top and most passionately and

VOL. II. n

heartily prayed God not only to save my life
but to spare my reason ; and I prayed for
my sweetheart too, and that God would
comfort her heart during our separation,
and that He would bring us together again.

My prayer being said, I felt less lonely
and more calm in my mind ; and if any
sailor who reads this should ever find himself
in such another situation of peril as
I was in, let him look up to God and pray
heartily, and be satisfied that he is heard,
whatever comes of it. I speak from experience.
I knew what that prayer did forme
; how it was like talking to a friend, and
having a hand to hold on to ; and how
much more of a man I was after than I
was before it.

I now began to reckon up my situation,
and first I had very little doubt that the
hull of the brig was sound, and would stand
this and even another gale. Being, as I
reckoned, hopeful of the pine planks, she
was like a solid piece of timber, and she
stood less chance of being bruised by the
worrying of the sea by being sunk, and
yielding without resistance to every motion

of the waves, than had she floated on her
bottom. So I had no fear that the brig
would not hold together that night, more
especially as even now the wind showed
some signs of abating, though it was still
blowing heavily ; and this conviction prodigiously
comforted me.

However, until the sea fell calm I
should not be able to leave the top, for not
only was the main-deck afloat as high as
the bulwarks, but the waves repeatedly
broke in whole green seas, as they are
called (although they were as black as ink
in the darkness, and heavily streaked with
tremulous lines of phosphorus), over the
deck-house, and there was no portion of
the deck on which I should have been able
to keep my footing for an instant. Had
it not been for the brandy, I believe I
should have fallen insensible, if not have
died outright of exhaustion; for no words
can express the suffering caused by t\n>
booming and howling of the wind as it met
in my ears around the head of the mast,
under the lee of which I had secured myself,
with the lacing of the spray whig h

the sea sometimes flung as high as the
cross-trees over my head, and the giddy and
sickening motion of the swaying mast, that
waved from side to side like a pendulum,
but at an angle, of sometimes as much as
50°, and not regularly, but in swift headlong
jerks, so that I should have been pitched
out of the top into the black and roaring
water over and over again if I had " not
lashed myself firmly to the mast.

I frequently strained my eyes all along
the western and northern horizon where
the Walder share should be, but there was
nothing to be seen — no, not so much asa
star, for what few stars there were shone
dimly in the windy rifts overhead ; and the
horizon was as black as the heavy wind
charged with spray and the dark night
could make it, and even when a sea broke
to leeward of the hull of the brig, the run
of its foam was speedily swallowed, up in
the darkness.

At last, but at what hour I do not know —
for whether the time went quickly or slowly
I could not guess, not being able to seethe
face of my watch — I fell asleep, and I

believe that my head dropped forward and
I fell asleep instantly. And it was no
wonder that my slumber was more like
death than sleep, for out of a hundred hours
of great and wearing anxiety, I had not
snatched more than five or six of repose,
and what I had gone through since I had
quitted the deck of the Walcler share was
an extra strain that broke nature down. I
must have looked like a corpse as I squatted
in that swaying top, with my hands fallen
down and my legs along the planking, and
my back resting against the mast, and my
head lolling forward. More than once had
I dropped asleep in the main-top of a large
ship, but then the night was quiet, the
breeze steady, and the sails full and still,
with only a soft and cradle-like motion of
the hull ; but now there was a hellish uproar
all around, and the very hull that
supported me was, as I may say, sunk
below the surface of the water, and che
rolling of it was a terrible swinging to and
fro, with sharp, dislocating jerks which
made the shrouds shriek out like ringing
harp-strings hauled suddenly taut ; and yet

never a baby slept more profoundly and
peacefully on its mother's breast than did
I up in that top ; and when I awoke, the
dawn was grey, the gale had broken, and
all in the west and south the sky was clear
and the stars shining.

I awoke, I say, but I was so amazed and
astounded to find myself lashed to the top
of a mast, with a sunken hull rolling beneath
me, that had it not been for the rope
around my body I must assuredly have
rolled over the edge of the top. I rubbed
my eyes ; my memory seemed to have
deserted me altogether; I tried to rise,
but I could not stir my legs, which w T ere
numbed into mere logs of wood by the
wind and wet, and their being kept in one
posture the whole while I slept. However,
all that had passed came back to me ; and
after chafing and rubbing my legs for upwards
of ten minutes, I got the blood to
run in them, and I then stood up.

My first thought was for the ship. In
the hard pale grey of the dawn the horizon
all round was as black as a ruled line of
India ink, but not a single shadow nor form

of any kind broke the continuity of the
circle. So far as the imperfect light permitted
me to see, the brig was the only
object on that ocean for leagues and leagues.
Nevertheless, I could not bring my mind
to credit that the Waldershare was not
somewhere within the focus of my eyes,
and that she would not heave in sight when
the dawn brightened. I cast myself adrift,
and, with much labour and pain — for I
found myself desperately stiff and weak in
the limbs — I clambered as high as the
cross-trees, where I remained standing and
searching the horizon foot by foot, until the
sun had risen, and the morning light lay
broad and keen, and the whole water-line
stood out like the edge of a globe of silver
against the faint blue sky in the west and
the rosy brilliance in the east ; but no ship
was to be seen.

It took me a good while to realize the
bitterness of my disappointment. Probably
it was that my mind was weakened by its
sufferings, but I know there was no sting in
my first perception that the sea was a blank.
My apprehension of what that thing signified

to me was of slow growth ; but when it
smote me at last, I cried out, "0 God!
God! 1 ' and only those words. The perspiration
broke out upon me ; the blood swarmed
into my arms and cheeks, and tingled in
my fingers as though each separate joint
was venomously stung by reptiles ; and,
fearing that I was about to faint and should
fall, I threw my legs over one of the cross-trees
and jammed myself into the rigging.
And it was well I did so, for the blood went
into my head, and shutting my eyes that
I might not see, I felt as though the mast
on which I sat had been hurled through
the air and was revolving with frightful
rapidity as it sped along.

This feeling passing, I took a sup of
brandy, and gained the top, where I stood
for some moments looking down and reflecting.
There was a strong breeze, but steady,
not stronger than a trade wind, and there
was more swell than sea on. This swell
made the brig roll, but it threw no water
aboard, though the waves would now and
again slop as much as a dozen bucketfuls
over the weather bulwarks, which drained

away fast ; so, beyond getting soused to as
high as the knees now and again, there was
nothing to hinder me from moving about
the deck.

One reason why I looked anxiously below
was, I was terribly thirsty. The brandy did,
indeed, pull my nerves together, but it dried
up the roof of my mouth and parched my
tongue, and when I wondered if I should
find any fresh water aboard the wreck, the
very thought of the ship went out of my
head. I could think of nothing but my
thirst, and what I should do if there was no
water.

Casting my eyes forward, I noticed a
couple of scuttle-butts lashed together and
to eyes in the bulwarks ; they stood on the
starboard side of the galley, and all about
them, as indeed all over the decks, the pines
lay in heaps, torn up and thrown together
fantastically by the sea. Immediately on
seeing these casks I made to leave the top :
but my arms trembled so violently that I
had not strength to drop over the top by
the futtock shrouds, and had to descend by
the lubber's hole, and as I went slowly

down the shrouds, footing the ratlines like
a man of eighty, the rigging quivered under
me.

On reaching the deck I picked my way
among the planks, tremulous with eagerness
and fear lest there should be no w T ater, until
I reached the casks. The bung-holes were
open, but I could not see any vessel to drop
into them. I bent my face down to perceive
the gleam of water, but this failing, I gave
the first cask a kick and the sound satisfied
me that it was nearly full. This filled me
with joy, but it gave a new sharpness to my
thirst too, and I went into the galley to
hunt after any kind of vessel slender enough
to pass through the bung-hole and bring up
the water.

As I entered the door the pocket of my
coat swung against the side of it. I put
down my hand and felt the soda-water
bottle, that was half-full of brandy. I immediately
drew it out, and fitting it in the
bung-hole of the cask, found that it would
easily pass through ; on which I emptied
the brandy into a pannikin that I saw in
the galley, and knotting together a couple

of rope-yarns, a whole bunch of which lay
close against the cask, I bent the end on to
the neck of the bottle and dropped it into
the cask, and heard the gurgling of the
water as the bottle filled. I drew out the
bottle full and put it to my lips ; there was
just the least flavour of salt in it, but so
faint I had scarcely noticed it. I drained the
whole bottle, and the cold draught tasted
more sweetly and deliciously in my fevered
mouth than I have language to express.

So here was enough fresh water to last a
whole ship's company a long while, and used
with care would carry me some weeks, as I
reckoned ; indeed, the cask was nearly full,
and it was a great cask too. But even this
discovery was not enough; I must needs try
the second cask, and this I found quite full,
and with less of the salt flavour in it than
the other. I was so overjoyed, that when a
few minutes afterwards I reflected on my
transport, I could have wept to think how
readily my mind had adapted itself to this
miserable situation, and how my very elation
illustrated the extent and character of my
misfortune.

The draught of water served to freshen up
my wits, for seeing that what little brackishness
there was in the contents of the cask
must have been caused by the salt water
draining into the open bung-hole when the
seas broke over the hull, I fashioned the
bundle of rope-yarns into two hard bunches,
with which I plugged the bung-holes, and I
then went into the galley to seek for something
to eat. There was a kind of dresser
facing the oven and coppers, containing four
drawers, and over the dresser were two
shelves, in which were some black-handled
knives and forks, a bottle of oil, another of
vinegar, a number of tin and china plates,
and other such matters, all jumbled together
in great confusion.

In the first drawer T found a rude, ancient
Bible, and some books and papers, which I
might have examined but that I was as
hungry as I had been thirsty before, and
these were not the things I desired to come
at. In the second drawer I found a canvas
bag containing eight good sea-biscuits, a
small quantity of flour loose in a tin dish, a
whole bunch of candles, and in another dish

a piece of fresh pork, that was quite green
and smelt abominably. I pitched it overboard
that it might not pollute the other
food, meanwhile munching upon one of the
biscuits, and eating it with great relish and
appetite.

In the third drawer I found some more
flour, with several tins of preserved meat —
in all five — together with about three handfuls
of macaroni lying loose in the bottom
of the drawer, and a canvas bag half-full of
rice. The fourth drawer was empty. The
dresser was so well made and fitted that
not a drop of water had entered the drawers,
though the seas had filled the galley over
and over and over again. I had this
advantage over any landsman who should
have found himself in my position : I was
a sailor and knew the habits of sailors and
where to look, and, guided by a kind of
instinct — for I behove had I reflected I
should not have attempted such a search — T
laid hold of a long fork lying on the deck,
and going to the coppers I probed them, and
to my astonishment and delight brought
up a large piece of boiled junk. I probed

again, and brought tip a smaller piece, but
that was all. I had no doubt that the first
piece had been cooking for the crew's
dinner and the second piece for the cabin,
and inferred from this that the crew must
have left the brig in a hurry, and that at
least two hours before they quitted her they
had no intention of doing so, otherwise I
should not have found these preparations
for dinner. How long the meat had been
in the water I could not imagine ; but not
very long, I supposed — not above two or
three days — for .though sodden with the
water it was quite sweet and good.

So here, then, was as great an abundance
as I could have prayed for; and having
made a hearty meal, I stowed the provisions
carefully away in the drawers, where, as
they had remained secure throughout the
gale, I judged they would remain secure
now, and made my way aft, greatly invigorated
and more hopeful of my future.

There was every promise again of fine
weather. As the sun gained power it dried
up the wind, and the sea was going down
rapidly. No more water came aboard now,

and the deck and the planks were drying
fast. Having got back some of my old
strength, I swung myself into the rigging
and climbed as high as the main royal yard,
from which considerable elevation I very
slowly and carefully swept the whole horizon,
going round it again and again ; but nothing
was in sight.

When I last saw the Waldersliare she
had been standing to the north and east,
and as the gale had hung very steadily in
the quarter to which it had veered when
the ship went about, I reckoned that on
the port tack Mr. Thomas would have been
able to head almost directly for me after
first making a longish board to the northeast
; and if so, then he had passed without
seeing me in the night, and when I was
asleep, and he should be now somewhere
down in the south and west.

I gazed intently in what I took to b
that quarter by the position of the sun.
The sea there lay very brilliantly clear inconsequence
of the slanting beams of the
rising sun, making (lie sky a bluish Silver
all that way, against which the horizon was

a sharp bright line, so that the least speck
would have been visible ; but, as I have said,
for leagues and leagues the water stretched
around without an object but the wreck of
the brig upon it.

I came down the rigging slowly, oppressed
by a heavy sadness which I vainly endeavoured
to lighten by reflecting that Mr.
Thomas would know by within a few miles
the whereabouts of the brig, and that I
might be as sure as man dare be sure of
anything in this disappointing world, that
he would go on cruising about until he had
sighted the brig. This, I say, is how I
reasoned ; but there was a dreadful haunting
under-thought, and it was this : that,
having beheld the sea break over the
hull of the wreck until nothing was visible
but the tops of the masts, there was not a
sailor aboard the ship who would believe I
had not been swept away and drowned ; and
after passing in the night the place where
he supposed the brig should be, and not
seeing her, and sincerely imagining that
I was drowned, Mr. Thomas might have
resolved to continue his voyage.

These doubts of the humanity of my
shipmates did me little honour, I own : to
suppose them capable of abandoning a
search for me whilst there was the smallest
chance of my being alive, was as bad as
thinking them capable of cold-blooded
cruelty ; but I did not view my thoughts in
this light. I said to myself without any
further speculation, " They imagine I am
drowned, and have given over looking for
the brig as a useless job ; " and this idea
being stronger in me than the hope that
Thomas would go on cruising for the wreck,
made me terribly miserable and low, and
when I reached the deck I sat me down on
a pile of planks, and leaning my chin in my
hand, remained for many minutes lost in
hopelessly and moodily considering my
position, my severance for ever, perhaps,
from Nelly, the end of all my dreams, and
the intolerableness and frightful lonesomeness
of my death if I perished on this
wreck.

However, God be praised, hope never dies
in a man; indeed, I cannot conceive any
surer sign of the immortality of man's spirit

vol. n. r

tlican that to him alone, of all created things,
is given the power of triumphing over
present trial and distress by the help of a
buoyant impulse that he cannot account for
nor even justify, and yet that tills him with
elation and makes him strong and patient*
I reflected that, though the Walcler share
may have sailed away, other vessels were
likely to pass ; that I was not in a little boat
which would be invisible a few miles off,
but on a hull the masts of which stood high
above the sea, and on so clear a day as this
could be descried ten miles off from the
deck of a ship.

I looked aloft and had half a mind to
loose the canvas, the topsails and foresail,
and haul the sheets home as well as I
could ;. but first I reflected that the wind
would swirl the brig forward away from the
place in which the Waldersliare might come
to look for her, and secondly that any ship
sighting the brig under canvas would pass
without taking notice, whereas if I left her
as she was, looking wrecked forward and
with no canvas set, any captain sighting
her would be almost sure to bear down.

This very idea, however, made me see the
necessity of hoisting some signal of distress,
and so I got up and began to look about me
for the vessel's colours. I had no idea what
countryman she was ; if she had any name
on her stern, it w r as submerged and out of
sight. But I was soon satisfied on this
point, for searching where I believed the
Hag-locker would be stowed, I found it
under a little grating just abaft the wheel.
It was a small, long, narrow box, painted like
a seaman's chest ; and in it were a large
and small English ensign.

I drew forth the larger ensign and bent
it on the reverse way to the flag halliards
leading from the royal-masthead, and hoisted
it as high as the cross-trees ; and that it
might blow clear, I carried the halliards
right aft and made them fast.

Having done this, I thought I would
and examine the cabins, and see what was
to be found, and what information Ii
obtain respecting the vessel ; but my eye
happening to alight on the falls of the
quarter-boat, I remembered the sunken boat
alongside with the body of a mam in it.

immediately got upon the bulwarks and
looked over. I had fully expected to find
the boat smashed to pieces against the side
of the vessel by the heavy seas which had
poured without intermission over the hull
during the night ; instead of which the after
fall had become unhooked, and the send of
the sea had veered the boat stern foremost
away from the brig. The corpse was gone out
of her, but the boat was perfectly sound, and
as she might be the means of saving my
life, I resolved to hoist her out of the water.
I accordingly went forward to look for a
watch-tackle, and found one hanging over
the heel of one of the spare-booms over the
galley. I brought it aft, clapped it on to
the hauling part of the fall, and as the
purchase of this tackle gave me the strength
of several men I soon had the boat on
end, her nose above the bulwarks. In this
way all the water ran out of her. Her
stern swung alongside ; I got into her,
hooked on the other fall, and in a few
minutes had her swinging at the davits.
As I meant that she should be in readiness
for me, I went to the galley and took some

of the corks from the bottles there, and
with one of them securely plugged her.
I then looked about for some oars, and
found one against the starboard side of the
cabin, and one smuggled in among some
pines which lay in a heap near the starboard
davits ; they were both good ash oars, and
had evidently belonged to the broken boat,
and had been washed inboard out of her by
the sea that had carried her away. They
were the only oars I could find, but they
were real godsend, and increased the value
of my boat a hundredfold. I laid them
securely in her, and having in this way improved
my chance of escape, I entered the
cabin.

I have already briefly described tin's
cabin, but when I looked into it on my first
coming from the Waldershare, I was in a
hurry, and took no further heed of what I
saw than to make sure there was nobody
alive in the wreck. I now observed that the
cabin-was a very smart and well-built house,
the bulkhead being of polished elm, the
doors solid, with handsomely carven panels,
and the swinging lamp of richly cora

bronze. Indeed, I may say, when I had first
looked at the brig I had judged her to be a
vessel over the building of which there had
been no stint of money; her spars, rigging,
decks, bulwarks, in short, everything that
was visible, gave me the idea that she was
one of the best and costliest specimens of
her kind and size, and that whatever might
be her present nationality she was French-built,
almost new, and never designed by
her builders for a timber vessel.

What made me believe her origin French
was the ornamentation. The wheel, for
instance, was richly carved with floral
devices, and the ceiling of her deck-house
was a white ground, painted with scrawls
representing the pattern of a drawing-room
paper. But, wherever built, she was English
now, as I had no doubt after finding the
colours in the flag-locker.

I first inspected the foremost of the berths
or cabins, of which, as I have said, there
were three ; and this, as I might at once
guess, had been in the occupation of the
carpenter, who would also, probably, in a
vessel of this size, act as sail maker, boatswain,

and second mate ; for up in one
corner stood a great black chest, which, on
lifting the lid, I found to contain tools of
all descriptions — saws, hammers, calking-irons,
chisels, files, nails, and so forth.
In the bunk were a blanket and a pillow,
together with an old monkey jacket that
seemed to have been pitched hastily into
it. Over the bunk was a shelf containing
a quantity of twine, some palms, sailmaker's
needles, and other things of that kind ;
and there was also a locker under the bunk
stuffed full of pieces of new canvas. There
was also a small chest near the door containing
clothes.

The next berth, from the character of
the articles I found in it, I supposed to
have belonged to the mate. There was
a middling-sized dark mahogany chest, the
lid standing open. It was full of clothes
and books ; and there was a little side shelf
in it with a lid, which I found half full of
Australian sovereigns, all brand-new as
though they had but this moment arrived
from the mint. I did not count them then,
but I afterwards found there were two

hundred and seventy-eight of these coins.
It seemed a strange place to leave so ranch
money in, but there it was.

I looked at some of the books in the
chest, and found them chiefly nautical
works, old almanacs, routine-books, and
navigation tables. In several was written
the name of Thomas Sidewell. As in the
other cabin, so here was a shelf over the
bunk and a locker below it. On the shelf
were several charts, some pretty old, but
all of them with courses pricked ; a very
fine, powerful telescope, with the name
Thomas Sidewell, Sydney, N.S.W." engraved
upon it ; an empty sextant case ;
and a small collection of novels and magazines.
In the locker under the bunk I
found nothing but some mouldy boots and
clothes. There were some blankets in the
bunk, and a large, warm skin.

As I left this cabin to inspect the third
and last, I noticed what I had not before
seen — a little sliding door at the end of the
living-room, just abaft the head of the table.
I know not why I should have gone to this
door instead of into the third cabin, but

I did so, and sliding it open, I found a compartment
about three and a half feet deep,
and of the breadth of the deck-house. I
stepped into it, but it was dark, and I could
see nothing until my eyes got used to the
gloom. I then found myself in what was
evidently the brig's store-room, or whereat
all events, they stowed enough provisions
to last all hands for a spell, and save them
the job of going into the lazarette, where
no doubt the vessel's stores were kept ; for
here were two casks of flour ; several great
bags of ship's bread or biscuit ; some kegs
of salt butter ; a great number of tins containing
preserved spuds, or potatoes, and
meats of different kinds ; some jars of lime-juice
; molasses ; two barrels of beef and
pork ; and several stone jars encased in
wicker-work, which, on smelling, I discovered
held brandy and rum. I also found
no less than three dozen bottles of a wine
that, when I afterwards tasted it, had the
flavour of claret, though it was somewhat
sweeter and had more body than that wine ;
yet it was not port, nor anything like port.
There were many other articles of food

which I need not particularize, among other
things a case of plug tobacco of the kind
sailors smoke.

The discovery of all these provisions only
kindled a dull satisfaction in me. I had
felt tenfold more pleasure when I came
across the small quantity of food in the
galley. I do not know why this should
have been, unless it was that I found something
ominous in the sight of so much
provision — as if fate intended that my stay
in this wreck should be long enough to
make me find even all the things I now
saw not too much to prolong my life.

I closed the sliding door, and there remaining
one more cabin, I went into it,
and found it to be the captain's cabin by
several strong indications. I stood on a
chair to look into the hammock, but found
nothing but the usual bed-clothes. The
bunk was bare. There was no sea-chest
here, but several lockers were ranged round,
and these lockers contained clothes and
books and papers.

In one locker I found three bags of gold,
each bag containing one hundred Australian

sovereigns, and two bags of mixed silver
pieces amounting to twenty-nine pounds
eleven shillings. Likewise in this locker
were five boxes of very fine cigars ; a small
case of gold watches ; another little box
full of trinkets, such as seals, gold keys,
lockets, and the like ; a large paper of
ivories, such as card-cases, brooches, ,
combs, etc. In short, including
the gold and silver, I reckoned the worth
of the contents of that locker at between
seven and eight hundred pounds.

In another locker, under some clothes,
I found a number of opera-glasses, at least
a dozen ; about a hundred yards of fine
yellow silk ; some meerschaum pipes, quite
new ; a gross of pocket-knives, and various
other articles which my memory no longer
carries. How the captain came by all
these things, or what he intended to do
with them ; whether he meant to trade
with them (but this I thought unlikely), or
whether they were designed as bribes or
presents ; and how such a number of articles
of European manufacture were got together
in this little brig, that was evidently ;i

trader in these seas, and that hailed from
some port south of the Line, as I might
imagine, I could not conjecture.

However, in rummaging, presently I came
upon a tin box, which I found open ; and
looking into it I discovered that it held
the vessel's papers, — that is, her articles,
registry, manifest, etc. From these papers
I gathered as much of her story as I had
any curiosity to learn.

I found that she was the brig Morning
Star, built at Brest in 1856, of 198 tons
register, belonging to Port Otago, New
Zealand, and bound to Valparaiso with a
cargo of New Zealand pine planks consigned

to Messrs of that port ; that she was

owned by Eicharcl and Thomas Sidewell ;
that Richard Sidewell was master, Thomas
Sidewell mate, Benjamin Lupin second
mate and carpenter, and that there had
been six able seamen, a cook, and two
apprentices.

All this information was set forth in her
register, articles, and manifest ; but the
captain, when he abandoned her, had
evidently taken his log-book with him, and,

what was of greater consequence to me, I
could find no sextant nor quadrant in any
of the cabins, though in the master's berth
there were two chronometers, both of which
had stopped. I was exceedingly anxious to
find a sextant, because I wished to ascertain
whether the wreck had drifted and to what
extent since the previous day, and also to
discover whither she was tending, and if
she was likely to come within the sphere
of vessels bound to the eastward or northward
round the Horn; but my search was
useless.

I took the telescope and went on deck.
Looking at my watch, I found that I had
been engaged about an hour and a half
in these discoveries ; and the moment I
was in the open air and noted how the time
had slipped by, I thought myself mad to
have remained below for so long a while,
and springing on to the deck-house I
levelled the telescope and swept the horizon.
There was nothing to be seen. The breeze
was very gentle and the sea almost smooth,
the flag shook languidly under the cross-trees,
and the smell of the dying pines was

sweet and strong, and carried my thoughts
away to the shore.

I was tired, and quitted the top of the
deck-house, where the whole heat of the sun
streamed upon me ; and fetching a chair from
the cabin, I placed it in the shadow of the
mainmast, and, with my hands in my pockets
and my legs idly stretched out, fell into deep
thought. What was like a wound in my
heart was the idea that Nelly would be
ceaselessly reproaching herself as the cause
of my having left the Walder share. Then
my memory went back to the last night we
had spent together in Burmarsh, the calm
English sunset, the placid river, my sweetheart's
face in the moonlight ; then I
thought of her courageous devotion that
had made her resolve on accompanying me
on this voyage, how great a happiness and
pride her presence had given me, and of our
many conversations aud my untold desire
that we should be married at Callao.
Could all this be finished, indeed ? Was I
never again to see her ? Was the end at
hand, and was I to meet a sailor's death at
a time when life could not be dearer tome,

and when hope could never be gayer ?
There was no answer to these questions,
unless it was the sob of the water washing
round the lonely hull, and the groan that
came out of the very heart of her when she
lifted wearily to the swell. I felt a hot tear
trickle down my face. If there had been no
Nelly in the world it would have needed
more than my loneliness and peril to unman
me ; but how could I recall her, and think
we might never meet again, and look around
upon the lonely sea and on this sunken hull,
whose deck was almost level with the water,
and be a man ? There was no eye to seeme,
and I felt no shame ; and, lest you
should laugh, let me tell you that I do
not know that my tears made me the less
ready to meet with a steady pulse any
end Almighty God might have chosen
for me.

After musing thus for half an hour, I fell
asleep, and slept until past noon. No
amazement like what had come to me
when I opened my eyes in the main-top
disturbed me when 1 awoke, My situation
had become familiar', but my first act was

to ascend the rigging with the glass in my
hand and again search every point of the
compass. This I felt I must do regularly,
and that it would be as much a part of my
life whilst I remained on the wreck as
thinking and moving.

It was a little after mid-day ; there was
no w T ind at all now, and the heat of the sun
was very fierce. I w r as thirsty, and went
forward to get a drink of water, and then
w r went into the galley and ate some salt beef
and a biscuit. I lingered over this repast
as long as I could, for the mere act of
eating took me away from myself. Not yet
having served any apprenticeship to loneliness,
it was hateful to me ; I feared it ; I
could not endure to think that whether I
went forward or aft I should find nobody to
speak to. And my solitude sharpened my
imagination, too : and I had a dread of
going near the forecastle that led into the
forecastle, for I did not know but that there
might be a corpse down there, there is
no trial so great as loneliness, and no man
can know w T hat strength of mind he has,
who has not been in a situation in which he

would have given all he possessed for one
hour of human companionship.

It entered my head as I came away from
the galley that by throwing as much as I
could of the deck-load overboard, I should
lighten the hull to the extent of that weight,
which, although it was wood, yet, as it was
out of the water, gave her no buoyancy;
and I was the more impelled to go to work
by fearing that if I sat idle and musing I
should grow light-headed.

The length of the planks varied between
twenty and thirty feet, and were of unequal
breadth and thickness. The shorter and
lighter ones I could make shift to raise
with my hands, and I tackled them first.
A particular reason I had for getting rid of
this deck-hamper was that the bulwarks of
the brig might lift somewhat, and afford mea
taller protection against the seas should
it come on to blow again ; and besides,
the decks were in a terrible litter, and
though no other good followed the discharge
of this portion of the cargo, its removal
would leave the decks free and convenient
to move about in.

VOL. II. Q

In an hour's time I had succeeded in
throwing a great number of planks overboard,
and there they lay, all floating about
in the water alongside, as though the hull
of the brig had gone to pieces. But I had
had as much of this work as I wanted for
the present, though it had roused me up
and done me more good than ever I expected
it would ; and being on fire after my
exertions, I dropped a bucket overboard,
and pulling off my shirt soused myself with
the cool salt water. This made me fancy
a smoke ; so I went into the cabin and got
some tobacco out of the store-room, and
helped myself to one of the meerschaum
pipes in the captain's locker. But when
my pipe was filled, how was I to light it ?
I searched about, but could not lay my
hand on a box of matches. I looked high
and low, but my search failing, it occurred
to me to unscrew r one of the lenses of the
telescope, which I held between the sun
and my pipe, and soon had the tobacco
alight.

So there I sat in the shadow of the
mainmast, and with every puff I was casting

my eyes around trie horizon ; but,
unless I hoped to see the smoke of a
steamer, I was a fool for troubling myself
to look, for it was a dead calm, and the
ocean for a league away beyond the brig
swam in a haze of heat, and overhead the
small white clouds palpitated like stars.

When I had smoked my pipe and rested
myself, I turned to and pitched another
lot of pines overboard, and what with the
sea having done a great deal in this way
first, the decks began to look somewhat
clear. After I had worked for some time,
I went to have another search for a sextant.
It was extremely vexing not to be able to
tell where I was, what drift I made, and
whether there was any current at work
for me. On the preceding day, the nearest
land to us had been the island of Juan
Fernandez, bearing north-east by east ; and
now I thought, should a westerly wind
spring up, there was nothing to hinder me
from getting sail upon the brig and letting
her drive for that island. I do not say
that I should have done that at once
because I dared not allow myself to be persuaded

that the Waldersliare had abandoned
the search for me, and I perceived that the
further I drifted away from the spot in
which we had first sighted the brig, the
less chance would there be of her finding
me. But at the same time, I understood
that if she did not heave in sight soon, I
should have to go to work to haul the
wreck somehow into the track of ships, or
get her into port ; and I saw how greatly
I should want a sextant to help me, for
dead reckoning would serve me but a poor
turn in a craft that would probably sail, if
she sailed at all, beam foremost, and make a
due northerly course with her head at west.
I overhauled all the lockers again, and
searched every nook and corner of the
cabins ; but I could not find what I wanted,
though I was rewarded in a measure for
my pains by lighting on some thousands of
wax matches in half a dozen long tin boxes,
all dry and in good condition. So, positively,
there was scarcely a convenience
that I did not find in this little brig ; yet
I w r ould have parted with all the money
and jewellery and ivory for one old sextant.

Lest my watch should fail me, I wound
up the chronometers and set them by my
watch, that had been regulated to yesterday's
observations, and was probably true
to within a few minutes for to-day. I could
not account for there being no sextants
aboard, except by supposing that the captain
and mate had taken them. If so, then
they had put off in the long-boat with the
crew, for the purpose, perhaps, of making
the very island — Selkirk's Island — that I
had in my thoughts. Their determination
to quit the wreck, however, must have been
formed very suddenly, for the meat in the
coppers proved that the cook had been
making ready the dinner ; and then, again,
so far as I could judge by the look of the
cabins, they appeared to have taken nothing
with them in the shape of clothes and other
property. But no doubt the long-boat of
such a vessel as this would be too small
to hold more than the souls which went
into her; and she may not have held them
all either, for one of them certainly lay
drowned in the quarter-boat. But every
shipwreck is a great puzzle until the story

of it is told. It is then plain enough ; hutin
ninety-nine cases in every hundred it is
impossible to arrive at anything like the
truth from the internal evidence one finds
in an abandoned vessel.

Whilst the sun was up, and I could see
about me, I was comparatively easy in ray
mind. I had killed a good deal of the day
in pitching the planks overboard, eating
my meals, hunting in the cabins, etc. ; but
as the sun approached the horizon my
spirits fell, a terrible depression seized me,
all the horror of my lonely and perilous
situation rushed into my soul with the
thought of the long, dark, silent night into
which I was entering.

Before the darkness fell, I went into the
store-room, where I had noticed some cans
of oil, and trimmed and lighted the bronze
cabin-lamp; and I also trimmed and lighted
a large ship's lantern that showed a green
light. I could not find the red light anywhere,
though I hunted high and low, and
suspected that, unless it were overboard,
it had been taken into the forecastle to
clean. I say, I trimmed and lighted this

green lantern, that gave a very clear, good
light, and carried it on deck ; and hauling
down the ensign, I hent the lantern on to
the halliards and carefully hoisted it to the
royal-masthead.

This, I flattered myself, was an act of
great judgment ; for a green light, showing
at a height like that, was sure to excite the
attention of any vessel passing. It was
like a lighthouse, and they would wonder
what it was, and run down to see. But
there would have to he some wind first,
before any sailing ship could sight that
lantern. The calm was intense. The sun
went down round and naked — a great ball
of fire that throbbed and opened and shut
as though it were composed of folds of red
heat, which lifted and sank by their own
fierce ardency ; and under it the sea lay
like a huge lake of blood to receive it. Before
it vanished, I again carefully scanned
the horizon ; and when I dropped the glass
with an involuntary groan, the sun was
gone, the sky was ablaze as if a great city
were on fire behind the sea. But this
majestic light faded very quickly, and a.

quarter of an hour after the sun had set,
the sky was full of small delicate stars, and
the sea lay black and luminous, a surface
of polished jet.

There was no stir of air, no canvas to
flap. The night brought with it an awful
silence ; only now and again the water in
the hold of the brig made a gurgling sound,
and there would be a faint creak or a soft
jar among the wrecked spars forward.

I hung about the deck until the darkness,
and the desolate, spectral, looming deck, and
the solitude, bred such thoughts as frightened
me; I felt the veins in my head swelling,
and my cheeks and forehead burning, while
my hands and feet were as cold as death.
Once I thought I saw a shadow moving
forward, and knowing very well that no
living creature was aboard, I trembled from
head to foot, and could not take my eyes
away from the place ; but at last I grew
mad to think that I should be so great a
coward, and went forward, and then I found
that what had frightened me was the yard-arm
of the fore royal yard, that was made
bulky by the sail furled upon it, and that

loomed in the darkness with something of
the shape and proportions of a figure.

Still, a hundred superstitious fancies
haunted me ; I could not dispossess my
mind of the belief that there were men
lying drowned in the forecastle. I had not
an atom of reason to believe this ; yet it
was like a conviction in me, and I cannot
express the horror and inward shrinking
that part of the brig excited in me, as it lay
all black, with the stars over the horizon
shining faintly through the intricate and
confused network of rigging caused by the
topmast having carried away and bringing
all its gear down.

But I had sense enough to understand
that it would not do to give way to fancies
of this kind, or they might play me a more
malignant trick than this wreck itself had
done. I was ripe for a fever, and I knew
it, and that if I did not want to become
delirious, and perhaps jump overboard, I
must brace my nerves together and steady
my mind. Bo, remembering there were
books in the berths, I said to myself, what
could I do better than force myself to read ?

A book is like a human voice, and will sometimes
cheat the mind into a feeling of
companionship that is often more real than
the society of a living person. So I unhooked
the lamp from the deck of the cabin,
and went into the mate's berth and brought
away a handful of books ; though God
knows it cost me a great effort to enter that
berth, for in the state of mind I w T as then in
every relic of the man who had lived there
had a ghastly significance. I had to lean
across the bunk to take the books from the
shelf, and the sight of the blankets and
bolster threw me into a sweat. I felt that,
had I lingered another minute, I must have
dashed down the books and sprang on to
the deck ; indeed, I w r as suffering from a
kind of hysteria induced by extreme agitation
and grief, and I can only devoutly
thank God I did not go mad outright, for
I am sure I was desperately near it once or
twice.

Having set the books on the table, I went
and mixed myself a glass of grog, and sat
down and turned the books about. But it
Would not do : I could not read ; the very

sight of the print set my temples throbbing.
Yet I did not like to quit the cabin, and the
light either ; the thought of the dark deck,
and the fear of my imagination coining
fancies of moving things forward, held me to
my place. I could see through the little
skylight that my lantern burned bravely at
the masthead, and the sight of it yielded
me some comfort ; it was like a faithful
companion keeping a look-out, and would
court any vessel that might heave in sight.
Every now and again the bulkhead would
creak a little, and the pain this sound,
amidst the frightful stillness, gave my
nerves is indescribable. Sometimes the
water gurgled hollowly right under my feet,
as it washed among the planks in the hold.

I tried to comfort myself by contrasting
this peace with the gale of the preceding
night; how much more secure I was now
than I had been then ; that last night I
slept in the top exposed to the wind and
the spray, and wet through to the skin, and
to-night I should he warm and as securely
as though I were on board a fine ship;
that last night I did not know but that I

might die of hunger and thirst, whereas I
knew now there was not only an abundance
of water but of provisions also, with more
luxuries than I should have been able to
command aboard the Waldershare. But I
could get no consolation out of these
reflections. All the time my heart was
crying out for Nelly, and I thought with
bitterness of Mr. Thomas having left me
to perish miserably, for all he knew to the
contrary; and my only speculations which
were honest were those which concerned
my future, whether I should be rescued and
when, or whether I should drift about in
this horrid wreck until I went mad, or until
the vessel broke up under me.

At last, after sitting in this way for two or
three hours, I fell asleep with my head on
the table, and slept soundly until one o'clock.
I then awoke, feeling refreshed and with
more courage in me, for I immediately went
on deck, and observing that the lantern at
the masthead burned dimly, I hauled it
down, trimmed it afresh, and then hoisted it
again. I also narrowly scanned thee horizon
with the glass, and then seeing the good I

derived from sleep, I took the small ensign
from the locker, carried it into the cabin,
and making a pillow of it, buttoned up my
coat and lay down on the deck; for, although
I had more courage, yet I had not enough
to venture into one of the bunks, or even to
use a blanket ; and in this posture I slept
soundly, and when I awoke the sun had
been risen an hour.

CHAPTER Y.

THE FIRE-RAFT.

My sleep had done me so much good, and
so completely set me up again, that when I
looked back upon my fears and fancies in
the night, I hardly believed it possible that
I could have been guilty of such womanly
weakness. My first act, of course, was to
run up aloft with the glass; but there was
nothing in sight, and now every hope I had
cherished of the W alder share remaining to
cruise about for me vanished, and I saw
that if I was to be rescued it would be by
some strange vessel.

I hauled down the lantern and hoisted
the flag as I had done on the previous day,
and then went to get some breakfast.
There was plenty of tea in the store-room,
and I felt that a pannikin of hot tea would

have a wonderful relish for me, who had not
drunk anything warm since the morning of
the day I had quitted the Walder share.

I took a hatchet from the tool-chest and
went and chopped up a quantity of wood,
with which I made a good fire in the galley ;
and up in a corner of the galley I found a
heap of coals which T threw upon the fire,
and this made a noble show of smoke. I
was delighted to see the smoke run up in a
thick black line out of the galley chimney ;
it was as good as a beacon.

There was a pleasant breeze, just enough
to set the sea running in little waves with
a thin edging of froth to them, and the sky
was full of high white clouds, which tempered
the heat of the sun and helped to
make the morning a bright and joyous one.
This breeze cheered me too, for I thought
it could not fail to bring a ship with it at
some hour during the long day.

I filled the small copper with water, and
soon had it boiling, and having brewed
myself some strong tea, I carried it aft, and
was presently seated at a fine breakfast of
salt junk, biscuit, and preserved meat. This

repast being over, I smoked a pipe, and
then went to work to get some more of the
deck-load overboard. The planks I had
got rid of yesterday were all lying together
about half a mile to leeward. I could not
believe that the wind had carried them that
distance, for at one o'clock that morning
when I had come on deck it was still a
dead calm, and being all on the lee side of
the brig they would necessarily be sheltered
from the wind. This made me suppose I
was in a current setting to the north, and
that the planks being lighter than the
submerged hull, they had floated more
quickly with the current.

Any way I was satisfied that by throwing
the deck-load overboard I should lighten
the brig without imperilling the flotage
power of the timber in the hold ; but before
I went to work I fetched a chart of the
South Pacific from the captain's berth, and
setting it on deck, commenced a calculation
by marking off on the chart the spot
where the brig was when first sighted by
the Walder share, and assuming that this
current was running at about a mile and

a half an hour, and trending due north,
and then allowing for the drift of the brig
during the gale of yesterday. By this dead
reckoning I concluded that the brig was
about eight to ten miles to the northward of
the spot at which we had sighted her ; but
it would have pleased me more to think
that she had made that amount of easting
too, for the nearer I could drift to the
Chilian shore the larger would be my chance
of being picked up.

With the renewal of my strength, hope
revived in me. I do not say that I was
buoyant. I believed that my only chance
of salvation lay in some passing vessel ;
that days might pass without bringing a
ship, although, such were the chances, a
ship might heave in sight within the very
next hour ; and that therefore my life
would depend upon this wreck continuing
to float. But this was the very thing that
gave me the hope I had. The more I saw
of the brig the more was I satisfied with
her great strength. Her very bulwarks were
those of a Government cruiser, and every
portion of her that was visible showed B

VOL. II. R

craft built on the old-fashioned principle
that a vessel is not only meant to swim
but to last. How she came to be full of
water I could not, of course, imagine ; but I
should have been willing to wager that the
leak, so far as it might go as a repairing
job, would turn out no great matter, and
that a very little labour would fit the hooker
to weather many a gale yet, and prove
herself one of the handsomest and liveliest
vessels of her size afloat.

I persevered in my intention to get rid
of the deck-load as much for the sake of
occupation as for the reason I have given.
Most of the larger planks obliged me to use
the watch-tackle, as they were above my
strength, and so the work progressed slowly;
however, as one by one they went overboard
there could be no question that their
removal lightened the vessel. How much
she rose I could not tell, for I had not
noticed the exact point at which she lay
submerged when I boarded her ; but on
looking over the side now my eye detected
a sensible increase of height from the"
water's edge, and as every inch was something

to the good, as offering more freeboard
to the sea, I had no reason to regret my
labour.

I worked in this way with little intermission
the whole morning, until the sea
alongside was covered with the planks, and
they lay bobbing there like a vast raft. I
then knocked off, and after refreshing myself
with a bucket of salt water, I got some
dinner and took the glass into the cross


I began, as was my custom, with the
horizon that lay directly over the bows of
the brig, and swept slowly and with careful
scrutiny as far as the starboard beam ; but
when I had got as far as that, there stole
into the field of the glass the upper: sails
of a vessel, the hull of which was below the
water-line.

The Bight of her set me all of a tremble ;
I was so used to searching without 1>
rewarded for my pains, that this sail heaving
in sight suddenly took away my breath, I
removed the glass from my eye, but she
only the faintest speck to my naked gaze.
and I should never have noticed her without

the telescope. She was dead to windward,
but how heading I could not make out,
nor indeed could I tell her rig beyond that
she carried square canvas. However, after
watching her for some time, I found that
she gradually sank her canvas, at the same
time that she was edging away to the eastwards.
I therefore concluded that she was
standing to the north-east, and that she had
come up from the westward and passed me,
hull down, astern.

I watched her until the highest tip of
her white canvas quivered on the horizon
like the fluctuating gleam of a play of
distant foam, and when she had vanished,
I searched the rest of the sea and then went
below.

Strangely enough, I was sensible of no
great disappointment, nor could I reproach
myself for not having kept a better look-out,
for even had I sighted her when she was
in the west I should never have been able
to make her see me. At the same time she
had put a thought into my head, and it was
this : that I would make a raft of the wood
floating alongside, and prepare a great

bonfire on it, which I would set a-blazing
when the night fell, and which, as I would
make it huge enough to last for some hours,
would furnish me with an infinitely better
beacon than my green lantern, and greatly
improve my chance of being discovered by
any ship passing in the darkness.

This scheme took my fancy mightily,
and I at once went to work to carry it out.
I went forward and collected a number of
spare lines, studding-sail halliards, etc.,
which I brought away from the raffle on the
forecastle ; these, and a sheath-knife that I
found in the galley, sufficed for my job. I
then took the end of the painter of the boat
I had hoisted and bent it on to the port
fore-brace, so as to have plenty of scope ;
then lowered the boat and got into her,
and unhooked her, and shoved her among
the floating planks. The breeze was very
light, as I have said, and the water under
the lee of the brig perfectly calm, so there
was no risk of my boat being injured by
the plank ends.

I had soon made a raft strong enough
to support me when I stood on it ; and by

lashing planks crosswise and decking them,
and then lashing more planks athwart this
deck and framing them, I constructed a*
raft that stood high out of water and was
capable of carrying a great load.

The labour of all this was prodigious, for,
as I have said, the planks were very heavy,
and I had to fetch the watch-tackle in
order to haul many of the planks aboard
my raft. But I was greatly encouraged by
the thought of the blaze my bonfire would
make, and the hope of this blaze being the
means of bringing a vessel to my rescue
would have made me undertake a heavier
job than that to come at such a bonfire
as I had in my mind.

This raft took me three hours to complete,
and when it was done I hauled it
alongside, and got on board the brig to rest
myself, and stood looking at it with as
much pride as I should have contemplated
a ship I had built. All this while the
wind remained a steady, gentle breeze, and
the sky cloudy ; but the clouds were white
and high, and the sunshine, therefore, was
greatly tempered.

It was now three o'clock. There was
plenty of time to chop up the wood, and
pile the material for a bonfire ; so I helped
myself to a cigar from one of the boxes in
the captain's berth, and mixed myself a
glass of brandy, and carried it, with a chair
and my telescope, to the top of the deck-house.
In truth, having recovered my
nerves, and my hard work having served
me better than any physic could have done,
I made up my mind not to permit any
forebodings to dispirit me, but to keep my
eyes steadily fixed on the bright side of
my situation, and, above all, to have faith
in God's providence. When I recalled
some of the stories I had read of the
sufferings of shipwrecked mariners, and
contrasted my position with theirs, my
heart swelled with gratitude, and I felt
almost conscience-stricken over my repining
and cowardly fears and superstitions.
I own that my heart came into my throat
when I thought of my sweetheart, and the
misery she would endure, not knowing
whether I was living or dead; or, if living,
what my sufferings were. But then I said

to myself, " Thanks be to God, I am not
dead, nor am I suffering; and I must not
and do not doubt that the Almighty, who
has watched over me so far, will guide some
ship to my rescue. So that, whether Nelly
and I are parted for a month or a year, yet
it will be all well in the end ; and, great as
our grief is now, we shall in the future
look back upon it as a trial that led us into
a greater discovery of each other's love ;
and we may even yet learn that, hard as
it was to bear, it was a merciful Hand that
contrived it all."

These were my reflections, and in this
way I strove to keep up my heart. And
I do believe that the spirit of prophecy was
never stronger in mortal man than it was
in me when I talked in this strain to myself,
as the sequel will show you. Though
does it not come to this, — that no man can
err who, no matter how heavy may be the
fate that befalls him, whether it be the
death of one he holds dearest of all created
beings, or the loss of his fortune, or the
failure of a life-long scheme, or the being
thrown into a situation of desperate peril,

accepts what comes with honest confidence
in the Divine reason that shapes his life
away from his hopes, and faithfully believes
that in the fulness of time he will
look back and say that what happened,
happened well for him indeed, and that
were he to live his life over again he would
not have it otherwise.

I hope the reader will forgive me for
crudely moralizing in this way. Thoughts
like these were in my mind at this time,
and it is because they were a part of the
true picture of myself as I was when I
was alone on the water-logged brig, many
leagues from land, on the bosom of the
mighty Pacific, with no creature to speak
to, and having only my heart to look into
for courage and faith, that I include them
in my narrative.

I now went to work to get the raft ready
for firing. I was determined to have such
a blaze that anybody, viewing it from a
distance in the night, should imagine it was
a ship on fire. I wanted a blaze to redden
the air, so that it should be visible from
the deck of a ship fifteen miles at least. If

no good came of it, it would only have cost
me the labour of heaping the materials for
the fire ; and, at all events, whilst it burned
it would make the night less lonesome, and
furnish me with a chance of rescue beyond
anything my green lantern would give.

I had noticed a tar-bucket full of tar and
water under the bowsprit when I was forward,
getting the lines for constructing the
raft. I now fetched it, and on emptying
the water, found that two-thirds of the
contents were tar. So, after sawing some
of the planks into short pieces, I chopped
them up, smeared them with tar, and laid
them upon the raft. I then began to throw
the planks over the side on to the raft, working
with great energy and spirit until they
stood as high as the bulwark. I got on to
them, and made a wider distribution of
them ; and then regained the hull, and
turned to and threw more planks over,
raising many of them by means of the
watch-tackle, until the raft looked as big
as a house. However, so soon as she was
covered, and the top of the freight was
level with the rail of the bulwark, I

was done, for I could not get any more
planks on to it ; though, had I had a companion,
we might have built the thing as
high as the mainland, by means of a block
at the yard-arm, and one man to hoist
away on the brig, and the other to stand
on the raft and receive the planks.

But though I could not make my raft
bigger, it was big enough ; indeed, I had
entirely cleared the port side of the hull of
her deck-load.

It was now within half an hour of sunset.
I had spent the whole of the day over this
raft, and when I came to look back upon
my labour, and reflected that in a few hours
it would be all what Espinosa would call
gastados — spent, evaporated — and that the
chances were fifty to one against the blaze
being seen, or rather against there being
any ship in the neighbourhood to see it, I
thought it was scarcely worth while to have
gone through so much for so little. Yet
even one chance in fifty to a man situated
as I was, was of great consequence; and
besides, if I had not made the raft, I daresay
when the darkness came I should have

abused myself for an idle fool in not having
done so, and made myself miserable by
believing that a ship would pass in the
night that would certainly have seen the
blaze had it been there ; so I had done the
right thing to please myself, laborious as
the job had proved.

One thing vexed me greatly to notice,
and this was that the breeze was dying
away again. I had no expectation of a
steamer being in these seas so far to the
westward, and indeed I dared not look for
many sailing vessels, and whilst it remained
calm I had nothing to hope from the few
which might be in these latitudes.

I had attended to the galley fire during
the day, and went to get some tea, and
after refreshing myself with a wash and
making a good meal, I ascended as far as
the main-royal yard with my glass to have
a last look round before the sun went down.
It proved a fruitless errand. This made
me feel very bitter and melancholy, though
I had not the least idea when I went aloft
that I should sight a vessel.

My eye happening to fall upon the

wrecked fore-topmast, it came into my head
to ask myself why I thought fit to linger
in this spot ; why, now that I might be
sure the Waldershare was no longer in
search of me, I did not make some effort
to clear away the raffle forward, and get
sail upon the vessel, and make what headway
was possible on a course that would
bring me more within the track of ships.
It would only need a little working with
my knife to cut the rigging clear, and let
the wrecked spars fall free of the lower
mast, and then I should find no difficulty
in setting the foresail and main-topsail, and
reeling the fore-topmast staysail halliards
through a block, seized to the head of the
fore-topmast, so as to get some head-sail
upon her. How she would steer, if she
steered at all, being water-logged, I could
not imagine ; but it was better that she
should swoosh forward anyhow and, I may
say, anywhere, than lie as though she were
moored in one spot ; and I made up my mind
as I quitted the mast that, if nothing came
of my bonfire, I would at daybreak next
morning make sail upon the little Morning

Star f and find her heels to can me somewhere.


The sun went down and there was a
noble sunset. All day long the sky had been
full of light high clouds, like mother-o'-pearl,
and they were still there ; and now the red
blaze found a thousand forms to catch and
repeat it in as many tints, like the echoing
of a great sound that dwindles and dwindles
into tiny liquid reverberations. There
seemed to be no movement in these clouds
at all. They made the heavens resemble
a broad surface of mosaic work; but when
the flush of the sunset spread through
them, it was indeed a sight to kindle the
eye to behold the dazzling pinks and
crimsons, the soft haze of gold, the violet
shadows lurking in the skirts, the orange of
the fronts of the eastern clouds, with the
soft tapping of the blue between, whilst
the sea, save where the sun's upper limb
hung like a glowing ember dashing the
water beneath with a streak of rich red
gold, was kept a delicate green by the
running of the soft wind.

All this splendour died away quickly, and

the shadows gathered, and as I turned to
fetch and light my green lantern I wondered
how many more sunsets I was to
witness alone.

I w T as in no great hurry to fire my pile,
for, as I have written, there was no sail insight,
and though one should be now just
below the horizon, yet it would take a good
while for the breeze to bring her within the
compass of the light. I now did what I had
neglected to do on the previous night : I
trimmed and lighted the binnacle lamp, as
I did not know but that I might require to
use the compass before the morning ; I also
hoisted the green lantern at the masthead,
and lighted the cabin lamp, and I then
filled a pipe and quietly walked to and fro
the deck, for nothing remained to be done
for the present.

I was no longer troubled by any superstitious
fancies ; my better acquaintance
with the brig and my improved health
made such weakness impossible. Yet, now
that the darkness had fallen, the sense of
loneliness weighed heavily upon me ; and
so greatly did I yearn for the sound of a

human voice, that had I had the heart to
sing, I should have done so, merely for the
sake of the sound. Once, indeed, I spoke
aloud : I forced myself to say (I know not
why I should have said those words, hut I
wanted to say something, and I took the
first thought), " Will, is it so bad with you
as you think ? " but it was not like singing.
My voice sounded unreal ; it actually startled
me ; it seemed to demand an answer, and
no reply coming, caused me to realize the
solitude with a fulness that was shocking.
So I thought I would make no more experiments
of that kind, but think of my
bonfire, and of my resolution to make sail
in the morning if nothing came of my
fire-raft.

The breeze was very light, still there was
more of it than I had believed would follow
the sunset ; it kept the water rippling, and
was what sailors would call a four-knot
breeze. But it was a dark night, even
darker than the previous night ; the clouds
intercepted the starlight, and their shadows
hung black in the sea. My green lantern
shone brightly aloft, and yet it was buta

wretched little beacon for so spacious a
scene.

However, as the air held, and it was past
nine o'clock, I thought I would fire my raft
at once, and take my chance of what might
come of it ; for it was not a thing to keep
in tow for a better opportunity, as not
only would a very little sea have swamped
and tumbled it to pieces, but were a fall of
rain fco come I should never be able to get
the wood to catch fire. Accordingly, slipping
a handful of matches into my pocket, I
hauled the quarter-boat alongside and got
into her, and bent a rope's end on to the
raft, and towed her away from the brig
so that the vessel might be clear of the
flames.

When I had got the raft about three
cables' length from the brig I threw in my
oar, and let go of her, and hauling the boat
close alongside set the raft on fire. There
was no difficulty in doing this, for I had
taken care that the ground tier should be
composed of small pieces of wood; and as
these were well tarred, they were soon
crackling and hissing, and spurting out long

VOL. II. s

lines of steam. Seeing that the raft was
fairly ablaze, I sculled back to the brig and
got the boat under the davits, and hooked
the falls in her. The outline of the brig
was plain enough, and the haze of the light
in the cabin and the binnacle made a
delicate luminous circle in the air over
them like lamplight in a fog ; but it was so
dark alongside that I had to grope about to
hook on the boat, albeit every movement in
the w r ater made the phosphorus flash up,
and along the whole length of the brig, and
for a whole fathom under her, the water
pulsated with long thin, sparkling green
lines.

After a short hunt for the watch-tackle, I
brought it aft and hoisted the boat up ; and
by this time the raft was all of a blaze. The
pines were the right kind of wood to burn,
and a mighty fire they made ; as much
smoke went up as out of a burning house,
and the inky coil was alive with sparks
which were blown out of the wood by the
steam, for, as you may suppose, most of the
planks were tolerably damp. The fire roared
like a gale of wind, and as the flames

gathered force, and the lower strata of
timber became huge glowing embers, they
coloured the sea under them a blood-red,
and for half a mile round the water was
lighted up, the ripples as they ran out of
the black sea into the sphere of the fire
becoming a sickly yellow, whilst every rope
and spar and block of the brig was illuminated,
and stood out against the dark
sky as though a gilt-brush had been passed
over them, and the shadows on the deck
looked like black silk needlework on the
yellow satin of a Chinaman's court gown.

I stood for half an hour watching this tire,
that grew greater and greater, as one by one
the tiers of planks became dry and were
ignited, whilst the deck-work of pines on
which the timber was heaped was also
ablaze, so that the whole red and flaming
pile, burning on the very water's edge,
looked like the head of some submarine
volcano that was slowly forking out its incandescent
summit, and was so interested
by the sight that I did not notice the breeze
had entirely failed, until I observed that
there was a draught of wind coming direct

from the opposite quarter by the smoke of
the fire blowing right athwart the wreck.

I found no particular significance in this
until, on going further aft to get clear of
the smoke, I saw that the sparks which
floated on the huge black coil that the
pines were vomiting up struck the rigging
and spars, and hung glowing for some
moments, whilst others sailed away over
the sea on the starboard side of the brigand
sometimes whole showers flew through
the spars of the vessel as though a rocket
had exploded in the main-top.

I was now in a fine fright, for I not only
feared that these sparks would set fire to
the brig, but I could not doubt that the
wind, siich as it was, was slowly driving
the huge fire-raft down upon the wreck ; for
the very flames acted as sails, and besides,
the raft, floating on a flat bottom and offering
a high surface to the wind, was bound
to drift five feet to the brig's one.

My first idea was to lower the boat, and
at all risks to get the raft in tow again, and
row so as to clear the stern of the brig ;
but the pines were now become a vast

roaring furnace. With the wind blowing
that way I could, even at that distance,
feel the fire, and whilst a moment's reflection
showed me that whilst the intolerable
heat would not let me approach the raft
by twenty feet, the mere job of launching
the boat would waste me precious time,
and allow the furnace to drift close aboard
the brig.

Seeing, therefore, that unless I could
manage to get the brig out of the road
of the raft she must be burnt, I sprang
forward, jumped into the fore-rigging, and
with breathless haste lay out on the yard,
and cut away the gaskets, which held the
foresail, as fast as ever I could ply my
knife. Fortunately, the raft gave me as
much light as I needed, and this enabled
me to work with great despatch. I then
loosed the topsail, for, although the upper
portion of the topmast was gone, and the
yard could not be hoisted, I reckoned that
even the folds of the canvas would offer
some surface to the wind and help to stir
the sluggish hull. The wreck of the topgallant
mast hung up and down the foremast,

but there was no time now to cut
it away. I came down from aloft with such
speed that it was lucky I did not break my
neck, and hauled the foreyard round as far
as the condition of the mast would let it
go ; and so with the topsail yard ; and they
swung far enough, for what wind there was
was right abeam. I then got the fore-tack
down after a fashion, and hauled the sheet
aft, ran aft to the wheel and put it hard
over, then got the main-staysail loose and
hoisted that ; and now I dared not do more,
for as the brig had no head-sail it would
have been madness to loose the main-topsail,
the effect of which must certainly have been
to throw her up in the wind and deaden any
progress the other sails might give her.

All this while the raft was drifting closer
and closer ; it was now not more than two
cables' length distant. The smoke was pouring
in such dense volumes right across the
main-deck as nearly to suffocate me when
I passed through it, and every now and
again the fall of a flaming plank into the
glowing hollow of the pile would send up
a thick shower of sparks, and every moment

I expected to see a flame shoot up aloft or
on deck.

Standing at the wheel, I took the bearings
of the raft ; but some minutes passed and
I did not find that the brig moved. I was
then for lowering a boat, getting a line over
the bows of the brig, and attempting to tow
her; but my judgment pronounced against
the undertaking as hopeless, for the boat
was herself quite as much as a single pair
of oars could manage, and what conceivable
impulse would my slender strength communicate
to a hull of two hundred tons, full
of water ?

I cannot express the dismay and horror
that seized me as I watched the raft drifting
clown upon the hull, which the bearings of
the fire showed to be motionless. It was
true I could take refuge in the quarter-boat,
but the idea of finding myself adrift on this
great ocean in a small open boat was horrible
to me. I cursed myself over and over again
for my folly in firing this raft; for now, so far
from it benefiting me as a beacon, it was
likely to destroy me. This wrecked and
submerged hull, that was hateful before,

became now inexpressibly precious, and I
stamped my foot repeatedly in my rage
and agony of mind that the wind should be
strong enough to give movement to the raft
and not strong enough to drive the hull
forward by so much as a foot.

I was beginning utterly to despair, and,
indeed, was about to leave the wheel in
order to stock the boat with water and food
ready to launch her, when the flames suddenly
leapt up with surprising brilliancy
and energy, roaring at the same time like
a wild beast, and the smoke drove down
flat upon the water. A moment after, I
felt the freshening breeze against my hot
face ; and, after a very short interval, the
bearings of the raft shifted, and the fire
veered towards the quarter. It was not
above eighty yards distant, and the heat of
it, with all that space between, was like
the sun's at noon. This veering motion
continuing, proved that the brig was forging
ahead ; and when, by the lifting and swelling
of the canvas, as well as by the change
in the position of the raft, this was proved
beyond a doubt, I thought I should go mad

with joy. I uttered a loud shout, and
actually danced about in my transports.
No language could convey my delight.
After the frightful suspense, the relief, so
to speak, was intolerable. I had to shout
and dance to give vent to myself, so overwhelming
were the emotions excited in me
by this sudden deliverance from a horrid
danger, which I had only a minute before
thought inevitable.

And still I was not out of danger either,
for the wind that was urging the brig was
also impelling the raft with great rapidity,
and it was now close aboard on the port
quarter ; and though I knew I should clear
it, my transports were suddenly arrested
by the long licking forks of flame, which
quivered and ran up in the air to the
height of fifteen and twenty feet, and which
threatened the stern of the brig as they
leaned along the wind. And God knows
whether I should have escaped after all,
if it had not been that, just when the raft
was so close that the heat of the flames
drove me from the wheel, the under tiers
gave way and the whole top weight fell

with a crash, several of the flaming planks
plunging with a fierce hissing into the
water. The flames drooped, a great cloud
of smoke soared up and passed over the
stern of the brig as though a fire had
broken out in the after-hold. In a few
moments the flames burst out again, and,
like serpents disappointed of their prey,
forked their long flaming heads many feet
above the sea, with such glancing and
leaping and long, eager, forward writings
as the wind blew them aslant like blades
of India grass in a breeze, as might have
scared the bravest man in the world to see.

But the danger was past. The raft had
gone clear of the stern of the brig, and
the steady, though moderate, wind was
setting the glowing mass steadily away
upon the starboard quarter.

I watched it for some time, until it was
a quarter of a mile distant. In spite of
a portion of the fuel having gone overboard,
it was flaming grandly again, and was
indeed a noble beacon ; whirling the fire-sparks
on high, and reddening the air all
around it, and illuminating a wide area of

the sea. Indeed, coming suddenly upon
it, and being ignorant of its character, I
should have taken it for a ship on fire, —
and, for that matter, a great ship too, for
the bottom part of the glowing mass was
so close to the water, that there was no
telling whether it was one or five miles
off; and although I knew it could not be
further from the brig than a quarter of a
mile, yet it seemed close to the horizon,
and like a thousand-ton ship on fire there.

Now that the brig was safe from all risk
of collision with the blazing raft, I thought
it would be foolish to keep her under sail,
and defeat the object I had in view in
constructing the fire-raft, by sailing away
from it. So I put the helm down, and
went forward and hauled down the staysail
and clewed up the fore-topsail, first squaring
the yards ; and, by means of outlines and
aeschines and the other ropes which are
attached to the large sails of vessels, I
snugged the canvas as well as I could
manage, and so left them ready for setting
in the morning, should my beacon fail to
attract any ship during the night.

I was desperately wearied, having done
a great deal of hard work that day, and
the excitement and terror aroused in me
by the drifting of the raft had greatly added
to my exhaustion. But I was so anxious
to judge how long the raft was likely to
remain burning that I determined to watch
it for a spell ; and, in order to keep myself
awake, I mixed myself a bumper of brandy
and filled a pipe, and went on to the top
of the deck-house.

The brig was now as motionless again asa
log upon the water, yet there was a very
smart and pleasant breeze blowing from the
eastward — it was, indeed, due east — and
the sky was beginning to clear under it ;
and there was a rich, greenish sparkle in
the larger stars, with now and again a
regular shower of meteors. But the sea
was an ocean of ink, on the surface of which
was the haunting glimmer of phosphorus, as
the little wavelets, after running a moment
or two, broke and subsided with a seething
as soft as the purling of a summer brook.
From the appearance of the sky all day,
and the sudden shift of wind, I believed

this easterly breeze bade fair to last ; if so,
then there might be the merest chance of
my being able to head a course for Juan
Fernandez, though I had but little hope
of getting the water-logged brig to sail on
a wind. And yet it would not do to let
her run before it, for, the parallel on which
the brig lay being so far south, I should
meet with no land before I came to New
Zealand. In other words, by heading west,
the nearest point of land would be about
five thousand miles distant ! Therefore it
would be better for me to let the brig lie
under bare poles until a favourable wind
arose, that would either blow me into the
track of ships or to the land. But, then, how
long might I be kept waiting for a favourable
wind? Indeed, my course was plain.
In the morning, my first duty would be
to make the best job I could of clearing
the foremast ; and then, supposing the wind
held easterly, clap on what sail I could
make, brace the yards up, and head north,
and take my chance of leeway.

These were my thoughts as I sat smoking
on the deck-house, with my eyes fixed

on the raft, that still blazed finely, and gave
promise of holding out for a long time yet.
But nature was no longer to be denied ; my
head sank on my breast, and I was startled
out of a doze by my pipe falling on to the
deck. As I stooped blindly to pick it up,
I felt that sleep I must, let what would
happen. The dew was heavy, and my
health and strength too important to suffer
me to lie on deck all night without protection.
But before I entered the cabin, I
hauled down the lantern from the masthead,
trimmed it afresh, and ran it up again ;
and then, with another look at the raft, that
resembled a solid ball of fire on the blackwater,
I quitted the deck, took the bolster
and mattress from the mate's bunk — being
entirely free from, and indeed a great deal
too wearied to feel any superstitious qualms
and laid myself down on the deck close
against the cabin door, ready for any emergency
that might call me forth.

Chapter VII.

THE SURVIVORS OF THE " WALDERSHARE."

I fell asleep instantly and slept profoundly,
and I must have been asleep four hours,
when I had a dream.

I dreamt I was watching the flaming raft,
and perceiving with grief and vexation that
it was dwindling into a smaller and smaller
light, whilst at the same time it was drifting
further and further away from me, when
the glow of it was suddenly obscured by the
hull and sails of a passing ship, which were
of an inky black as they passed this side
the red haze. I endeavoured to shriek out
in order to attract the attention of tho
people aboard the vessel, but my tongue
refused to stir ; I could only utter a husky
sound like the moan of a man who is being
strangled; and I was forced to watch with

intolerable anguish of mind the receding
vision of the ship, unable to utter a sound
loud enough to reach her. Suddenly the
raft flared up, the flames grew gigantic, the
sky was filled with smoke, spangled with
millions of sparks of the size of stars, the
sea all around it caught fire, and, like the
dry grass of a flaming prairie, an innumerable
host of fiery tongues came sweeping
down to the brig, in the very midst of which
I beheld a large boat full of men, armed to
the teeth, menacing me with their weapons
as they came; whilst the water poured away
in streams of red fire on either bow, and
flashed in the eyes and in the metal-tipped
arms of the hellish crew, who rushed with
the rapidity of wind down upon the brig. I
saw them coming ; I marked the flames
hissing and crackling as they fired the water ;
I felt the heat of them scorching my face ;
and in an agony of terror I turned and
rushed forward in order to throw myself
overboard, gained the forecastle, sprang withall
my strength — and sat bolt upright and
wide awake, trembling and with the sweat
pouring down my face like water.

There were two figures standing at the
cabin door, a man and a woman. They
appeared transfixed. I looked at them for
one moment with speechless amazement,
at the next with speechless horror. As
I live to write it, my belief was that I
was either stark, raving mad, or that I
was dead, my soul disembodied, and beholding
a vision that formed no part of
this life.

A sharp, wild cry, in a voice that I would
have known among a thousand, rang through
the cabin and brought me to a sense of the
reality of the thing as swiftly as the eyes,
blinded by the hand, behold the light when
the hand is removed. I sprang to my feet,
and in an instant I had my sweetheart on
my breast in a dead swoon.

Mr. Lee," exclaimed a husky voice,
water, for God A'ruighty's sake — water for
her and water for us ! "

Unhook this swinging lamp," I said,
and take it forward; the scuttle-butts arc
on the starboard side of the galley. You
will find a bottle on one of them that will
serve as a dipper. Drink moderately, for

VOL. II. t

your life's sake, and get a pannikin from the
galley and bring it aft, filled."

It was Sinnet, the boatswain of the ,
who had spoken. I knew him
by his voice, rasping as it was, though I
never lifted my eyes from Nelly's face. He
unhooked the lamp, and I heard a scamper
of feet as three or more men bounded forward.


Whilst I waited for water to be brought
aft, I adjusted the blanket on the deck,
meanwhile supporting Nelly with one arm,
and then laid her tenderly down, with her
head upon the pillow ; and by the time this
was done, the boatswain entered with a
pannikin full of water. I took it from him,
and told him to hang up the lamp ; and,
whilst I raised Nelly's head and moistened
her lips with water, I bade him pour some
brandy from the jar that stood upon the
table into the tumbler I had used before
I lay down to sleep ; and, with no man
speaking a word — for a hasty glance at
the cabin door had shown me two other
figures standing there — I bathed Nelly's
forehead with the brandy, and kept on

moistening her lips with the water, into
which I also poured a little brandy, until
she sighed deeply and opened her eyes and
looked at me.

I told her not to attempt to speak, and
put the pannikin to her lips. I let her
drink as much as I thought she ought to
take, for the husky voice of the boatswain
had given me a hint of sufferings which
had been protracted ; and perceiving with
intense joy the good this draught had done
her, I let her sink back on the pillow, I
then started up, threw open the door of the
store-room, and brought out a handful of
biscuits and some tins of preserved meat.
The moment the men saw the biscuits,
they sprang forward and wrapped them out
of my hand, and fell to cramming their
mouths. I let them look to themselves,
and put some meat and white tin biscuits
before Nelly, and had the exquisite happiness
of seeing her sitting up and eating.

All this time not a word was said. We
were English sailors, not Germans nor
Frenchmen. We wanted no explanations;
everything was. understood, or as much was

understood as was needful at that time.
The only question I asked was, " Are these
all of you, Sinnet ? " indicating the men
who stood pale and famished at the table,
eating like wolves ; and the boatswain
answered, "Four of us, sir," nodding towards
Nelly, that I might know he included
her in the four.

My sweetheart had no covering to her
head, otherwise she was completely dressed;
and over her shoulders was a large plaid
shawl, dark and clinging with the saturating
dew. She was terribly white, with a pitiful,
wasted look ; but whenever she raised her
eyes, she had a smile for me — a smile so
sweet, so glad, so full of joyous surprise,
that I can only compare it to the expression
on the face of a child that has died painlessly.


However, I would not suffer her to speak.
I knew what she wanted, and what was
indeed most imperatively needful to her;
and I went at once to the captain's cabin,
and taking the bedclothes from the hammock,
I prepared the bunk for her ; and
the moment she had made an end of her

repast, I took her hand and led her to the
cabin, just whispering, " My blessed one,
I cannot guess what you have suffered, but
I know that sleep is as necessary to you
as food and drink ; " and lifting her in my
arms I laid her in the bunk, and kissing
her cold cheek, I closed the door and left
her.

11 Grot be praised for finding this brig and
you aboard of her, Mr. Lee ! " exclaimed
the boatswain, running up to me and, in
the wildness and delight of his feelings,
grasping my hand. " Another day must
ha' done for the poor lady ; I don't know
even that she would have gone through this
night, sir."

"What has become of the Walder share / "
I asked.

She's at the bottom of the ocean, sir,"
replied Sinnet, catching his breath.

What's'' I exclaimed, in a low, amazed
voice, staring round upon the pale faces of
the men, who nodded as they met my eye.

Ay, sir; a few hours after we lost sigh!
of this brig," said the boatswain, " the ship
took the ground. There was notion' to be

seen, no breakers, not a vestige o' reef
above water. She plumped upon it, going'
rive knots at the time, fit to break her in
two, and I could hear the water roosting
into her forwards like a torrent over a dam.
Oh, Mr. Lee, it's an awful pity — an awful
pity, sir ! God Almighty knows why and
how it happened, but I heard Mr. Thomas
say there was no reefs marked down in the
charts within five hundred mile o' that place."

He sighed heavily, and passed the back
of his great hairy hand over his eyes. I
was burning with curiosity to hear more of
the story, but it would have been cruel to
keep the poor fellows standing and talking
after what they had gone through.

You shall tell me all about it, bo'sun,
after you have taken some rest," said I.
There are blankets in those berths there —
go and turn in; and you two," addressing
the others, " must make shift in this berth''
indicating the carpenter's. And then looking
at my watch, I told them I should need
no more sleep that night, and would keep
a look-out.

I had never beheld men so exhausted.

One of them had no cap, and his black
hair hung in streaks over his bloodless forehead
; whilst his eyes still glowed with the
fever that thirst had kindled in them ; and
his ribs, and the sharp angles of his collarbone
and shoulders were clearly marked on
the thin, dew-soaked shirt that, with a pair
of canvas trousers, formed his dress.

Before I went on deck, I opened the door
of Nelly's cabin very quietly, and crept to
the side of the bunk and looked at her.
The reflection of the lamp streamed in
through the open door, so that her face
was quite plain. She was sound asleep,
and breathing deeply. Her hair had fallen
loose, or she had loosed it herself, and it
lay in a great heap on the bolster. I
touched her hand and found it warm, and
felt her dress (I had let her shawl slip off
her shoulders when I laid her in the bunk),
and noticed that only the lower part of it-was
damp ; and as she was completely
covered, I reckoned her underdo thing would
protect her against the dampness of the
dress.

The mind of a sailor, used to danger and

to sharp contrasts, grows quickly accustomed
to change, and by this time the events of
the last half-hour had become familiar, and
I no longer felt the astonishment, I may
say the awe, that had possessed me when I
opened my eyes on the figure of my sweetheart.
Yet there was an exultation in my
heart, a quick beating, a play of grateful
delight. Before I had fallen asleep I was
mourning for Nelly and crying out for the
sound of a human voice ; now I had her
with me again, and the precious companionship
of men to help me to use the wreck
as a means of saving our lives. It was
hard to believe, and yet it was all true ;
and it was no surprising coincidence either
when I considered that the Walder share
could not have been many miles distant
from the brig when she sunk.

I stepped on to the deck ; it was still
very dark, and the wind blowing a steady,
pleasant breeze from the eastward, the sky
clear, and the sea smooth. The green light
at the masthead had burned clearly, but
my fire-raft was gone, and the ocean
stretched a mighty unbroken shadow around.

Hearing the peculiar sound of the wobble
and splash of water alongside, I brought the
cabin lamp to the port bulwark and looked
over, and there saw one of the Walters
quarter-boats bobbing up and down
under the gangway. They had made her
painter fast to one of the chain-plates
forward. I hauled her round to the lee
side of the brig, that she might lie under
shelter until we could hoist her up in the
place of the boat that had been broken and
washed away.

Until the dawn broke I remained
patiently on deck, sometimes smoking,
sometimes walking, sometimes ascending
as high as the main-top to have a look
around, thinking all the time over the loss
of the Walder share, and wondering what
had become of Thomas and the rest of the
people, and often thanking God for His
gracious providence in directing to the brig
that one of all the souls aboard the ship
whom I would have laid down my life to
save.

As the sun rose, turning the whole of
the eastern sea into molten silver, I again

from the masthead scanned the ocean, not
knowing but that one or more of the
Walder share's boats might be in sight, and
heartily praying that my little forlorn
wreck might be the means of rescuing more
lives, when, on looking down, I perceived
the boatswain gazing up at me.

Do you see anything of the long-boat,
sir? " he called out.

I replied that nothing was in sight, and
immediately descended to the deck. I
asked him how he felt ; he answered, himself
again, after his sleep. The other men
were not awake, and I would not have them
disturbed.

"We are not out of the mess yet," said
I, " and we have all our w T work before us, and
we shall need all our strength too. Tell
me now about the Walder share."

He began by saying that when I put off
with the two men to board the brig, all
hands were on deck watching me. From
the superior height of the Wdldershare,
they had been able to notice the appearance
of the weather to windward when the sky
still looked clear to me, and he for one was

surprised, when the breeze first came down,
that Mr. Thomas did not insist on my
returning. He was on the quarter-deck,
looking over the rail of the bulwarks, when
the boat put off from the brig, and he heard
Mr. Thomas, who was looking at her
through a glass, say to Mr. Black that he
couldn't make out what the men were
doing ; that they were sculling the boat,
and that there were only two men in her.

The boatswain felt sure that something
was wrong, but nothing could be known for
certain until the boat had run down to the
ship, partly sculled and partly blown along
by the wind. The moment Mr. Thomas
heard the men's story, he swung the yards,
and headed to make a long board so as to
fetch the brig to windward; but presently
the squall came thundering down, and
though all hands were on deck and everything
let go, in order to save their spars,
they had to put the helm up and run for it,
until they had clewed up and hauled down ;
and by the time they had got the yards
round again, the brig was a long way to
windward.

However, they went on watching, and to
give her way Mr. Thomas cracked on ; but
just before it fell dark, and when the ship
was on the starboard tack, the wind shifted
and blew with great violence dead on end
from the brig. This forced them to wear
ship — for she would not stay under the
canvas then on her — and brace up on the
port tack, the vessel's head then lying south
by west. The wind increasing, they were
obliged to furl the mizzen-topsail and stow
the inner jib; but Mr. Thomas told the
boatswain he had the bearings of the brig,
that there was no great risk of Mr. Lee
coming to harm, and that by daybreak he
hoped to be hove to close to windward of
the wreck.

Ifc was four bells in the middle watch,
the night dark and still blowing very fresh,
and the ship heading S.S.W. and making
a great deal of leeway, when the boatswain,
who was asleep in his bunk, was awakened
by a horrible grating sound. In a momenta
dozen voices yelled out that the ship had
struck, and was foundering. Everybody's
first impression was that they had run

down the brig. The boatswain rushed on
deck, and at the same time the vessel heeled
heavily over to starboard. He believed
that she was going down, and that it was
all over with them. However, in a few
seconds she righted, but the confusion on
deck was frightful. Madam Espinosa had
rushed up in her night-dress and stood
shrieking at the break of the poop, and
everybody was yelling out ; there was no
order, no discipline. It was pitch dark, and
the seas breaking heavily over the weather
bulwarks ; the sails thundered overhead,
and amidst all could be heard the rushing
of water into the ship's hold.

Mr. Thomas was quite cool, and stood in
the waist shouting to the men to get the
long-boat hoisted out whilst there was time.
This he succeeded in getting done, but no
sooner was she alongside than there was a
rush, and a whole crowd of men jumped
into her ; however, although the sea was
breaking heavily over the vessel, the longboat
lay comparatively safe under the shelter
of the lee bulwarks, and the boatswain saw,
as he believed, all the passengers get into
her.

Whether Mr. Thomas got into her or not,
the boatswain could not say, hut not knowing
that Nelly was still aboard, he (the
boatswain) was about to drop over the side,
when the long-boat went adrift, and in a
moment vanished into the surrounding darkness.
Perceiving this, he sprang aft to the
port quarter-boat, where he found two of the
men busy at the falls ; there he saw Nelly
standing by them, perfectly calm and quiet.
He raised her in his arms and put her into
the boat, and one of the men also jumped
in. He and the other man then lowered the
boat, and when she was unhooked (this boat,
it will be remembered, unhooked herself),
they got into her by going down the falls.
They then threw their oars out and rowed,
so as to get clear of the broken water that
twice half-filled the boat, but they kept as
close under the lee of the ship as they could,
so as to get the benefit of the shelter she
offered ; and there they lay riding to their
oars, which they made into a bundle, until
the dawn broke, shortly after which the
ship sliced off the reef into deep water, and
went down as upright as if she had been on

the stocks, the main-royal truck being the
last thing seen of her.

Both the captain's gig and the starboard
quarter-boat were washing about bottom up,
but there was not a living thing to be seen,
and no signs of the long-boat. The boatswain
said it was impossible to tell what the
loss of life was. Had there been less confusion
and more discipline, every man might
have got away safe. He believed that several
of the crew were drowned in the rush for
the long-boat ; he was almost sure that Mr.
Thomas jumped into her, believing that the
two lady passengers were there, and that he
could do no good by sticking to the vessel.
The fact of the other boats having been
lowered proved that some of the crew had
endeavoured to save their lives by those
means, and that they had either capsized in
the lowering, or been upset by the sea,
which was very heavy to windward of the
ship.

It fell calm after sunrise ; but the sun
that la-ought them comfort at first added fco
fcheir misery afterwards, for fchey lay roasting
under it without a drop of water or a

morsel of food in the boat. They had but
two oars, but had they had fifty they could
have made no use of them ; for where
should they row ? in what direction should
they turn the boat's head ? They knew
they were hundreds of miles distant from
any land, and the boatswain said that it
almost drove him mad, so that he barely
restrained himself from jumping overboard
when he thought of the unfrequented seas
which surrounded them, how many days
might pass before a vessel should heave insight,
and how, meanwhile, they were without
food and drink.

He said that throughout Nelly was wonderfully
brave, and patient, and calm, and
was constantly calling upon them to keep
up their hearts as they sat idly in the boat,
hopelessly gazing around the horizon. And,
indeed, the suggestion that ultimately saved
their lives came from her, for she spoke of
the brig, and asked the boatswain if he
thought that vessel had lived through the
night ; and on the boatswain answering that
as she was full of timber she could not sink
unless she broke up, she asked why they

should not try to find her ; and at this
simple question all three men raised a shout,
as though the brig had actually then hove
in sight.

He said that Nelly's judgment was marvellous,
that she talked like a true sailor,
and asked questions that greatly helped him
to determine the approximate bearing of
the brig. One of the men in the boat was
at the wheel of the Walcler share when the
brig was sighted, and he said he would take
his oath she lay due south when the squall
struck the ship. Then they made a calculation
how far they had watched to the eastwards
and how far to the westwards, and
they arrived at the conclusion that the brig
bore about ten miles south-east when the
wind shifted after the Waldershare had
gone about. With a pencil she found in
her pocket, Nelly drew a circle on the stern-sheets,
and the boatswain helped to make a
compass of it, showing the position of the
brig as nearly as their memory would help
them to arrive at it at the time when the
shift of wind came ; they then reckoned
how long they had stood to the southward

VOL. II. u

on the port tack and the speed of the ship
at the time, and by their calculations they
brought the ship to he about sixteen miles
south-west of the brig when she struck,
and that being so they reckoned that the
wreck bore about N.N.E. from them.

As by this time the sun was high, and
they had nothing to steer by, they determined
to wait until sunset in order to
know how to head the boat ; and then steering
so as to bring the sun on the port
quarter, they took to their oars and rowed
steadily, using the stars as a guide. They
continued rowing for several hours, but the
men grew so exhausted at last, and so mad
with thirst, that they could row no longer ;
and now they had to wait for the morning
before they could tell if the brig was insight.
But although she could undoubtedly
have been seen from the deck of a ship, and
although, as I afterwards reflected, the boat
must have been within the horizon when I
ascended to the royal yard to look around,
but too small a speck to be visible even with
the glass, yet, as they could see nothing of
her, their hearts utterly failed them, for

they believed that their quest would be
useless, and that they might go on rowing
until they dropped dead at their oars without
the wreck heaving in view.

This was their second day in the boat,
and towards the afternoon one of the men
jumped overboard, but was fished out of the
water by the boatswain. After he had lain
a while in the boat he said the water had
done his thirst good, and this made the
others get over the side and soak themselves,
and it also relieved them ; but whatever
Nelly's sufferings were, she said she
could endure them ; and she proved that she
could do so, indeed, for until she could no
longer articulate with her dry tongue, she
was urging them not to lose hope, and
advised them to take to the oars again
when the night fell, as she said (and they
all agreed with her) that the brig could not
possibly be many miles distant. So when
it fell dark they had another spell at the
oars, and the little breeze that blew astern
helped them along in the direction they had
decided to steer.

It was about half-past ten, as near as the

boatswain could recollect, that they first
sighted the red light thrown upon the air
by the fire-raft. They believed it was a
ship on fire, and pulled towards it with
hearty good will, hoping to fall in with
other boats. After they had rowed for
some time the wind changed and blew
directly against them, and this retarded
their progress considerably; however, they
persevered, with many intermissions, and
the fire-raft setting their way, they saw
what it was, and it puzzled them exceedingly.
At last the boatswain said they were
planks from the wreck, and that it was likely
Mr. Lee had made up that fire, and if so,
the brig could not be far off. He had
scarcely said this when Nelly caught sight
of the green light and pointed to it, being
unable to speak. Shortly afterwards the
brig herself loomed into view, and in about
six hours' rowing from the time they had
taken to the oars on the night falling, they
got alongside the brig and boarded her.

Such was the boatswain's story, told not
as I have put it, but in language infinitely
more picturesque, and rendered moving bywords

and gestures which thrust deeply
home into me the horrors and sufferings
they had passed through. And now how
could I sufficiently thank God for inspiring
me with the idea of the fire-raft ? for had it
not been for sighting that blaze, it is fifty
to one but that they would have missed the
brig and drifted a while and perished.

Ay, sir," said the boatswain, " it is true
enough that your raft saved our lives ; but
if it hadn't been for the lady putting the
idea into our heads of looking for the brigand
helping us to find her by her calculations,
that raft would have done us no
good, for we should never have drawer near
enough to sight the flare."

Any way, you saved her life in the first
instance, Sinnet," said I, " by putting her
in the quarter-boat ; and whether you have
guessed it or not, I'll tell you now, that
that girl is my sweetheart, and dearer to me
than I can explain to you ; but for standing
by her, Sinnet, take my hand — take my
hand, man, and with it my thanks — ay,
boatswain, my deepest thanks — and may
God bless you ! "

I wrung his hand passionately, blinded a
moment by a moisture in my eyes ; then,
clapping him on the back, I cried, " Now,
bo 'sun, let us light the galley fire and get
breakfast. There's enough provisions aboard
this little craft to last us six months. We'll
afterwards turn to and make her ship-shape
forwards, and if we can't get her to sail,
bo'sun, we'll drive her, eh ? — we'll drive her,
deep as she is."

In a few minutes we had the fire blazing
and the small copper filled. We carried the
cooked salt meat I had found in the big
copper aft, and prepared the breakfast ; indeed,
I felt myself a host, and was anxious
to gladden the eyes of my sweetheart and
shipmates by the show of good provisions
I was able to put before them ; moreover,
my term of loneliness had made my heart
wonderfully tender to the men. I put
questions to Sinnet for no other reason
than that I might hear his voice, and my
joy at having companions was so great that
I would often laugh loudly, and my heels
were so light that I felt no deck beneath
me,

Whilst we were at work preparing the
table, the two seamen same ont of the carpenter's
berth. Strangely enough, they had
both belonged to my watch, and were both
of them Englishmen, steady, smart fellows ;
their names were Eobert Johnson and
William Matthews. I stepped over and
gripped them one after the other by the
hand.

We have been watchmaker before," said
I, "and we shall be watchmaker again,
men. We know one another, and that's a
good job, for we shall be able to pull together
as we did aboard the poor old .
Mates, I hope your rest has
brightened you up ? "

Ay, sir, we're both of us men again, "
they answered ; and then Matthews said,
"We're hearty glad to see you well and
doing, sir. Nary man o' the whole watch,
Mr. Lee, but would ha' gone on cruising for
months and months on half-allowance and
half-pay to have got you back again."

"Ay, ay," responded Johnson, "Bill
speaks gospel in that, Mr. Lee. Though it
looked a bad business in the first start, it

were a blooming' good job after all that you
was left aboard this here brig ; leastways,
I speak for ourselves and the lady, sir ; and
I for one say Lord bless her, for the way
she heartened us up and forced us to save
ourselves."

The same here ! " exclaimed the boatswain.


She opened her cabin door at this minute
and came out. I sprang forward and grasped
her hands. The weary expression had gone
from her face ; she was indeed still very pale,
but her eyes were bright and her smile was
quick and sweet, and full of life, as I ran to
meet her. She had managed to coil and
smooth down her hair, and adjusted her
dress in some clever fashion so as to make
herself look as fresh as though she had but
left her toilet-table. Her paleness took
nothing away from what in my sight was
the handsomest womanly face in the world,
and it only made her smile the sw T enter by
colouring it with a little shadow of sorrowful
tenderness. I was immensely glad to
find her up and looking well, for, to speak
the truth, it was hard to guess whether

a serious illness would not follow the mental
and physical sufferings she had endured,
and some bitter misgivings on that head
had troubled me whilst the boatswain related
his story, though I kept them to
myself. However, it was certain now that
the repose she had taken had brought her
very much to herself again, and I believed
that another day of rest, and such nourishing
food as I could find to give her, would clear
away all the lingering ill effects of her
forty-eight hours' exposure in the boat.

I whispered some greetings to her — for
though we had much to say, this was not
the moment to say it in — and led her to the
table, where the men stood respectfully by.
I made them all sit down, saying with a
laugh that, in a smooth sea and with a clear
sky, all the watching a water-logged vessel
wants is through the skylight ; and the five
of us made a great breakfast, there being,
indeed, a plentiful supply of food on the
table — salt beef, ship's bread, white biscuits,
preserved meat, tea, sugar, preserved milk
in tins, and some very good marmalade.

I was anxious that the men should fare

heartily, as the preservation of their strength,
was of the utmost importance to us all ; and
they certainly did not disappoint my wishes,
though the boatswain, sticking a fork into a
piece of junk, and keeping his knife poised,
exclaimed, " Mr. Lee, we're in your hands,
sir, and you know better than us what provisions
there is aboard this brig. Only say
the word, sir, and me and my mates will goon
any 'romance you may think right;"
whereat the other men, hungry as they
were, stopped eating, and laid down their
knives to await my answer.

I replied that I had overhauled the stores,
and found there was enough to last the five
of us some months without stint — at least,
that was my calculation ; any way, I meant
that there should be no stint that morning,
as there was a heavy day's work before us.
I also proposed that Miss Maitland (for I
thought it best to call her by the name the
boatswain knew her by) should have charge
of the store-room, and reckon up the
quantity of provisions in it, and we would
leave the dividing of it to her discretion.
The men then went on with their breakfast.

During the meal we talked a great deal
of the Walder share. Nelly said that when
the vessel struck she was not undressed,
but sitting in her cabin, having left the
deck about a quarter of an hour, where she
had been looking out for the brig. She
had removed her hat, but kept her shawl
on, and when the ship struck she ran out
of her cabin. The other passengers were
in bed. She never once saw Mr. Thomas,
though she heard his voice on the main-deck.


I sighted a ship yesterday," said I, "at
dinner time, and I am hoping that she may
have picked up the long-boat. She was
standing up from the southward. Did you
see anything of her ? "

Nothing at all, sir," answered Sinnet.

Had the long-boat a sail aboard ? "

Yes," said the boatswain; "just as
she went adrift I saw them stepping the
mast."

Had she any water ? "

There were two small water-casks in
her, one in the bows and one aft," answered
the boatswain ; " but God Almighty knows if

there was anything in 'era, or whether they
filled 'em afore they launched her."

"And twenty people in her, you say?"
I exclaimed with a shudder, as I thought of
this mass of human "beings cooped up in
one small boat without food or water.

However, it would not do to let myself
grow miserable over what was after all but a
mere probability. I considered Mr. Thomas
too experienced a seaman to launch the
boat without watering and provisioning her,
although the boatswain could not say he
had seen this done ; then, there was the
chance of their having been picked up by
the vessel I had sighted ; and besides, our
own plight was serious enough to demand
all my sympathy and attention too, and I
considered that, whilst I sat shuddering
over the fate of the occupants of the longboat,
they might be safe on board some
vessel, while here were five of us on a
water-logged brig, that at any moment
might play us a devilish trick and set us
all scattering on the water.

When the men had done their breakfast,
I gave them each a stick of tobacco, and

told the boatswain to hoist the Walters
boat to the starboard davits, and
afterwards go forward and have a look at
the fore-topmast, and make ready to clear
away the wreckage there.

The moment they were out of the cabin,
I took Nelly in my arms and kissed her
again and again. When I reflected that
she had undertaken this voyage out of her
great love for me, and that the bitter
sufferings she had just gone through would
have been escaped by her had she not loved
me so well and proved her devotion by
following me, I was overcome, and could
not speak to her for some moments.

"Will," she exclaimed, as she laid her
face, streaming with tears, on my breast,
does not this meeting prove that it is
God's wish we should be together ? Think
how slight an accident might have separated
us for ever. When the boat came back
without you, and I heard that you had been
left on this wreck, I thought my heart had
broken. I went down into my cabin, believing
that I should go mad if I did not
cry, and I did not want them to see mo

cry on deck ; but I could not cry : I felt as
if I had been changed into stone. I thought
that you were lost to me for ever, and I
said to myself, ' It was my fault ; I urged
him to go ; he only went to please me.'
When the ship struck and I ran on deck,
I was quite calm. As you were not with
me, as you might be dead — for I heard Mr.
Thomas tell Mr. Black in the cabin that
he feared you would be swept off the wreck,
over which he said he had seen the waves
dashing furiously — I felt that I ought to
die, and I longed to die ; I made no effort
to save myself. But, Will, it was God's
intention that you should go to the wreck
in order that we might come together. Weare
together once more now, my beloved ;
and oh, my darling, we must not be parted
again — we must not be parted again ! "

"Have no fear, Nelly; we shall not be
parted again," I exclaimed, fondling and
soothing her ; and then I made her sit down,
and, to calm her, talked of our chances
of escape and of my plans. I then gave
her a description of my life aboard the brig
from the hour I had been left on her, and

by the time I had done she had dried her
eyes, and was watching and listening to me
with her sweet, affectionate smile.

I now insisted on her lying down and
taking thorough rest for the remainder of
the day. The captain's berth was to be
hers ; there was every convenience of
furniture in it, and with a very little
trouble it was to be made as comfortable asher
cabin in the WaldersJiare. It was true,
she only had the clothes she stood in, but
she was a sailor's daughter and a sailor's
sweetheart, and could make handsome shift
on small matters. Nay, there was a broad
straw hat in the mate's cabin which I
fetched and gave her, saying that although
I was afraid we should not be able to find
any feathers fit for a lady to wear, there
were needles and thread in the lockers ; and
I would leave her to overhaul the cabins for
such trimmings as she might find to please
her. This set us both laughing, and with
another kiss we separated, she promising to
lie down and remain resting in the bunk
until I gave her leave to get up.

If this were all pure fiction I should not

spare any pains to prove to you, out of
the experiences of others, that this meeting
of my sweetheart and myself, after the
endurance of so many perils, was a circumstance
infinitely less surprising than
hundreds of the coincidences in which
naval story abounds. The sea is full of
astonishments, but that is because of its
restlessness. A seaman, drowned a hundred
miles out at sea, is cast up on the shore at
the very feet of his sweetheart or wife, who
stands thinking of him and longing for the
day to come when they shall meet again.
A man, losing his passage by one ship,
follows by another, and during the voyage
he passes a wreck, and finds it the ship in
which he was to have taken his journey.
A sailor is washed overboard in the middle
of the Atlantic, is believed to be drowned,
and his clothes are sold ; and when the
vessel arrives in port, the first man who
steps aboard of her is this sailor, who comes
to fetch his clothes. Incidents which
strike the landsman as specimens of great
extravagance are read by the seaman with
grave faith ; for it is fifty to one but that,

if he is an old sailor, lie will be able to top
the most miraculous adventure with an
experience a great deal more astonishing.
Hence the fascination of the sea to those
who have something more than a smattering
acquaintance with its life. Dr. Johnson
believed in the Cock Lane ghost, but
contemptuously rejected the story of the
Gibson earthquake. It is easier to get
some landsmen to believe in the Flying
Dutchman than in maritime coincidences
which any real sailor would accept as facts.

I had been a good deal cheered, whilst
talking to Nelly, by hearing the hearty
"Yeo heave ho!" of the men as they
hoisted the boats to the davits. It made
me feel that I had help and companions as
nothing else that I can imagine would have
done. They were forward when I left the
deck-house, and I found the boatswain in
the eyes of the brig, taking a squint aloft.

Do you know, Mr. Lee," said he, " that
this is a wonderfully well-built boat ? I
can't tell what her run is like, but I never
see handsomer bulwarks on a craft of her
size ; and look at her spars, sir ! no naval

VOL. II. x

dockyard ever turned out anything finer.
It's a treat to see the way in which her
main rigging is set up; and everything
aboard of her is first-rate — more fit for a
gentleman's yacht than a timber-brig."

True," I answered; " though I'd swop
all her finery for a sound hull. Now, men,
I'll tell you what my plans are. I propose
that we turn to at once, and cut away that
raffle up there. I can see a spare-boom on
the galley yonder that would make us a
good topmast ; but as there is enough
hoist left in the stump to enable us to carry
a single-reefed sail, I'm for letting it stand
at all events, for the present. We shall
want all the head-sail we can carry, and
so we must turn to and run out a jibboom.
There's a big chest of tools in the foremost
berth, and anything you want in the way
of saws, choppers, and the like you may
have by fetching it. How this hull will
sail I don't know ; and I'm sorry to say
there's no sextant aboard, and I shall have
to do as best I can with dead reckoning.
Any way, I calculate I'm within fifteen
miles of the place where the Waldershare

first sighted this brig, so I've got my position
on the chart, and find that the nearest
land to us is the island of Juan Fernandez.
But, as neither this wind that is blowing,
nor any wind on the starboard hand, will
allow this water-logged hull to head up for
that island or the continent beyond, we
must make her give us all the northing she
will, and take our chance of being overhauled
by a ship or getting a slant of wind
that will run us into some port. How does
my scheme sound ? "

I don't know that you can do anything
better, sir," said the boatswain. " The
further north you can drive this vessel, the
better our chance of sighting ships."

Just so, Sinnet. And so now, men, to
work."

There were plenty of knives knocking
about in the galley, and seizing each man
one, the two seamen sprang aloft, and were
presently busy cutting away the topmast
rigging. All four of us working with hearty
good will, we had soon got the wrecked
mast along the deck, overhauled fch< run-and
cleared the foremast,

One of the men then went aloft with a tail
block, which he made fast to the head of
the broken topmast, and through this we
rove the topsail halliards. Having securely
stayed the mast, we broke out one of the
spare-booms and got it forward; and all
hands tailing on, we ran it through the
bowsprit cap and firmly lashed it and
steadied it with guys. A bigger, probably,
would not have thought highly of our
method of procedure, but our object was
to make the best of a bad job. What figure
the brig should cut under our hands did
not trouble us. We wanted our work to
be strong, — something that a stout breeze
would not blow away. And by means of
the watch-tackle and the capstan and the
winch, we secured the topmast, bowsprit,
and jibboom in a manner that satisfied me
that, so far as they were concerned, we had
nothing to fear from a gale of wind.

We knocked off at one o'clock for dinner.
We had worked desperately hard all the
morning, and were now ready to make sail.
But an hour more or less would make no
difference, and we were all tired and hungry

enough too, and felt that we had earned
our dinner and a spell of rest besides.

We had kept the galley fire in, and
during the morning I had stepped aft, and
got a piece of salt pork out of a cask in
the store-room and popped it into the
copper. This was now cooked, and we
carried it into the deck-house and made out
a very respectable dinner-table, on which
I placed a pannikin of rum. I bade the
men fall to, and knocked on Nelly's door.
She asked me to enter, and I found her
standing in the cabin ready to come out,
but waiting till I called her.

"Will," said she, "I have taken all the
rest I need to-day ; do not ask me to remain
in this cabin. It will do me more good
to be on deck ; and, should you not be able
to employ me, I promise not to be in the
way."

I laughed at her earnestness, and, drawing
her to the window, looked her in the
face.

"Why, Nelly, you are not so pale
you were, and the tired look has left your
eyes. Come, the extra rest has done you

good — admit it ! But I will not force you
to remain below. The breeze won't hurt
you, and after dinner I will make you comfortable
on deck."

So saying, I opened the door and brought
her to the table. The men stood up when
they saw her. Had she been a queen, they
could not have paid her more homage than
was expressed in their grateful, affectionate,
and deferential manner.

We talked a good deal of our plans and
of the brig, wondering where the leak was,
and deploring that we could not get at it ;
for I said that could we only manage to
bring her to Valparaiso, our misfortunes
would have a profitable ending, for that I
estimated the value of the brig and cargo,
in addition to the property I had found
aboard, at five thousand pounds, and our
salvage money would be something to
tassel the ends of our pocket-handkerchiefs
with.

I do not know why I should particularly
remember this meal, but I do. The picture
of the interior of that little deck-house on
this day is strongly engraved on my memory.

We had brought the extra chairs we required
from the berths ; and at the head of the
table sat the writer of this yarn, and on
the right of him his sweetheart ; near her
was the boatswain, and facing him the two
seamen. We filled the little table ; and it
was handsomely covered too, all things considered.
The boiled pork was very good,
the biscuits crisp, the tinned meats were
beef and mutton ; and if some of us ate
pickled onions with our hot salt pork, it
is because ship's forecastle are not renowned
for breeding fastidious tastes.

The boatswain, having some sense of his
position and the presence of a lady, had
unrolled his shirt-sleeves and covered up
his arms ; but the two seamen seated themselves
in the condition in which they had
knocked off work — the breasts of their
shirts wide open, their brown arms bare to
the elbows, their foreheads glistening with
the sweat of their honest toil, the palms
of their hands treacle-coloured with the
Stain of tar — and yet God knows I should
have been sorry to see their places filled
by well-dressed gentlemen.

Those horny, rough, half-naked men,
with their mossy breasts disclosed, and
their hair hanging like rope-yarns over their
e} r es, were precious companions in my sight,
and endeared to my heart by the fellowship
and help they had brought to me in my
loneliness.

I put a bottle of wine before Xelly and
filled her half a tumbler, and took care that
she made a good dinner. " Badly as the sea
has used you, it has left you ■ all your
beauty," I whispered. Indeed, I spoke the
truth; there was a touching softness and
light in her fine eyes ; her hair was all
lustrous with the sun as she sat under the
skylight ; there was not a line nor curve of
her figure that was not faultless. I cannot
express the suggestion of charm, of grace,
of elegance, that filled the quaint and solid
little cabin when she occupied it ; her
beauty in it was like the decoration of
flowers, and in her presence, such was the
effect of the contrast, the rude and rough
seamen lost the harsh realities of their garb
and faces, and took the picturesque softness
one sees in a painting of such figures.

I had noticed some long clay tobacco-pipes
on the shelf in the carpenter's berth,
and told the men to take them and go and
smoke forward. When they were gone I
said to Nelly, " Those men should have
gold to eat, if it would do them any
good. Think how precious they are to you
and me. Imagine ourselves alone on this
wreck! "

"They seem honest, quiet men," she
answered. "Beyond their crying out now
and again for water, I never heard any
complaints from them while in the boat.
It was Johnson who jumped overboard.
I saw him look up and clasp his hands, and
in a moment he sprang into the water. He
had not spoken for a long while before he
did this. Oh, Will, those were dreadful
days ! " She put her hands to her face.

"Yes, darting, but they are past now,
and need be no more to you than a dream.
I pray Heaven all may be well with Thomas
and the others. Nell, you little thought,
when you made up your mind at Burmarsh
to" follow me, that you would be tossed for
two days and nights in a little open boat,

in the middle of the Pacific, and find your
refuge on a wreck."

Could I have foreseen everything I
would still have come. My place is here,
"Will," says she, putting her arm into mine
and nestling against me.

Ay, Nell, here — heart to heart : but we
must take care never to be separated again.
But come — where is that hat I gave you
this morning ? I must fit you with it, for
since you will not lie down you must e'en
have your way and come on deck."

I stepped into the berth and brought out
the hat ; it was a large straw hat, almost
new, and I put it on her.

Why, Nelly, this is like the hat you
used to w r ear in the garden at Burmarsh.
You wore it that morning when you sang
about a jolly sailor's life, eh, Nelly ? Could
you sing me that song again ? "

When I am in the mood for sinoino- I'll

o o

give you something prettier than that, '
she answered ; and then left me, to put the
hat on with her own hands before a looking-glass,
being as true a woman in little as in
big things. Coming out of the cabin with

the hat on her head, she must needs asks
me how it looked.

There is nothing else to put on, or I
would not wear such a thing, Will. I hope
the men will not laugh at me."

"I hope not, indeed," said I; "but we
must chance that."

I caught up a chair, and she followed me
on to the deck, where I helped her up to
the top of the deck-house, placed the chair
for her, and put the telescope in her lap,
Saying that, as she wished to be useful, she
might keep a look-out for ships.

Our next business was to get sail upon
the brig. As we could not find more than
two tail-blocks, we seized a jewel-block to
the topmast head just under the halliards
block, through which we rove the jib
halliards, making the tack of the sail fast
to the jibboom end. This jib was a big sail
for so small a vessel, and held enough wind,
as the sea-phrase goes, to last a Dutchman
a week. The fore-topmast staysail we
hoisted by means of a block seized to the
forestry close against the mast, and set
both sails as a smack does her foresail.

We next set the fore-topsail with a single
reef in, that bringing the leeches taut with
the yard hard against the tail-block at the
masthead ; we then bowed the fore-tack
down to the waterways with the jigger and
hauled aft the sheet, and telling the boatswain
to get the main-staysail hoisted and
to loose the topsail, I ran aft to the wheel.

The breeze had been wonderfully steady
all day long, but had freshened somewhat
within the last half-hour, enough to give a
little extra nimbleness to . the run of the
small waves as they flashed into lines of
foam under the sun, and crackled sharply
in. lops and springs against the deep side
of the brig. The wind was clue east, and
being anxious to test the vessel's capacity
of laying up, the yards were Sharply braced
and the head-sheets flattened.

However, before the main-topsail was
hoisted she began to fall off, making no
headway at all, but just shoeing around as
though her head were being warped to
leeward. The main-topsail checked this
uncomfortable behaviour somewhat, but by
this time her head was at Nan. W.

Get the main-tack boarded, bo'sun ! " I
sung out, and this was done.

How does she answer now, sir?" said
the boatswain.

I'll be able to know better when you've
set the mizzen," I answered.

This was a large sail, the sheet of which
worked on an iron traveller affixed to the
taffrail, instead of a boom. The foot of the
sail just cleared the top of the deck-house,
but I called to Nelly to come down while
the men were setting it, and she came and
stood alongside of me.

Do you see that reel there with a line
around it ? " said I. " Bring it here, dear,
will you ? and in that little box just over it
you will find a sand-glass."

Glad to be of use in any way, she fetched
the log-line and glass and laid them on the
deck ready. The brig, having this after
canvas on her, ceased to fall off, and with
the helm hard 'down was heading north by
east.

Is she going through the water at all,
bo'sun ? " I asked.

Ho took a squint over the side. " Why,

yes, she seems squelching a hit, sir. But it
isn't head foremost, I'm afeard, Mr. Lee."

I asked Nelly to hold the wheel whilst I
hove the log. I jumped on to the taffrail,
whilst the boatswain held the reel and
Matthews turned the glass. The stray of
the line veered right to windward, with a
small inclination astern.

As nearly as I can make out," said I,
we are making about two and a half knots
leeway and half a knot headway."

I dived into the cabin and brought up a
chart. The three men came around me,
Nelly remaining at the wheel.

Here's the spot I reckon we are at,"
said I, placing my finger on a mark on the
chart; " and here's the island of Juan Fernandez,
bearing, as you may see, about N.E.
If I thought," I said, looking around the
horizon, " that this breeze would hold for a
few days, I'd square away and head W.N.W.
for the South Sea Islands. % But any way
it won't do to hold on in this fashion, for
the lee helm we are carrying is choking a
'good mile an hour off the brig, and we shall
do no good to let her drift dead to leeward

in this fashion. We're bound to have some
control over her, or we may as well clew up
and sit down and wait for something to
happen. So let us try her with the yards
braced aft. Johnson, jump forward and
ease off the foresheets."

I took the helm from Nelly and put it
over by a few strokes. The brig's head
slowly fell off to N. W. by W. This brought
the wind well on the quarter, and the yards
were swung with a slight cant to windward.

Matthews," said I, " loose the topgallant
sail and let us see what that will do
for us."

In a few minutes this sail was sheeted
home and the yard hoisted. We hove the
log again and found the brig really sailing,
doing three knots, and making about three
points leeway.

We must leave her at this, Sinnet,"
said I ; "we can do no better. Luckily,
she's making some northing, and should the
wind veer to the westward we shall be able
to run with it right over our stern for the
island."

Ay, sir ; and upon my word, she's sailing

as I never reckoned she would," said he,
looking at the broad oily wake left by the
inert and sodden hull. " I'm dashed if I
don't think now she'd go to windward of
some of them English coasting colliers."

Although the reader may have seen a
water-logged vessel, he will find it hard to
realize our position unless he has actually
stood aboard of one. It is true that by
throwing the greater portion of our deck-load
overboard, I had succeeded in giving
the hull a rise of between six and seven
inches ; but this had only just raised the
scupper-holes clear of the water, and every
time the vessel rolled the water shot through
these holes on to the deck as though
squirted through a hose. Although the bulwarks
protected the deck, they did not prevent
one from feeling the terrible nearness
of the mighty deep. When I stood upright,
I could see the horizon standing high above
the rail of the bulwarks, and looking aft, the
sea sloped up into the sky like the side of a
hill.

Used as I was to my situation, I never
could glance over the side without a shock,

to find how close the ocean was aboard.
Nor was the nearness of the sea the only
thing that brought home the reality of its
grim proximity ; every movement of the
vessel was so sluggish, there was such a
sickly deadly inertness in her motion, every
creak of the timbers being smothered in the
water, that I kept on fancying that she
actually sinking under our feet ; and so
strong was this upon the boatswain and the
two men who were not yet accustomed to
the feel of her, and who were fresh from the
bound and buoyancy of the Waldershare,
that I saw them constantly directing their
eyes towards the sea, and going to the side
and looking over, to satisfy themselves that
the bulwarks still showed the same height
above water.

In addition to this, was the dreadful giirgh
and sob and wash of the water in the hold,
and it is impossible to describe the thrilling
sensation this sound produced in the mind.

Drawing the boatswain away out of earshot
of Nelly, I told him that I spent the
first night I passed on the wreck in
main-top, as the waves combed over

VOL. II. y

Vessel in green seas, so that no living creature
would have been able to hold on for five
.seconds ; that should we meet with another
gale the decks would undoubtedly be swept
in the same way again ; that we four men
could, of course, take refuge in the rigging
until the gale abated, but that I never could
suffer Miss Maitland to remain up there ;
and that therefore, as the only place of
refuge would be the deck-house, I proposed
that, to guard against all risk of its fetching
away, we should turn to and thoroughly
secure it with guys. It was true it had
stood two, if not more gales, but a third gale
might sweep it overboard.

The boatswain thoroughly agreeing with
me, we called the others, passed a number
of lines round the house, and carried guys
to the ring-bolts, to the mainmast, aft, and
wherever we could find something to take a
secure turn ; and rousing everything taut
with the jigger, by supper-time we had the
deck-house so secured, that before it could
be washed away the hull would have to goto
pieces.

As the brig was under canvas, and a hand

would be wanted at the wheel, we arranged
to divide ourselves into watches ; the boatswain
and William Matthews in one watch,
and I and Eobert Johnson in the other ; we
also agreed that each man in the watch
should steer the brig for two out of the four
hours. Johnson was at the wheel when
this was arranged, and so I said that, as he
was on deck, he and I would stand rhe
remainder of the first watch — that is, from
six to eight ; or rather, as we none of us felt
disposed to turn in at once, that the boatswain
and Matthews should keep watch
from eight till midnight, and then we would
go on alternately.

We also took that opportunity to arrange
about our sleeping-places. Nelly was to
have the captain's cabin ; the boatswain
and I were to share the mate's berth, the
boatswain swinging in the hammock which
we took frown the captain's berth, and I
sleeping in 4>he bunk; and the two seamen
were to' replace each other in the carpenter's
bunk as their watches came round.

All these arrangements being completed
to our satisfaction, the boatswain ami Matthews

went forward for a smoke, and I
relieved Johnson at the w T heel whilst he
went to the cabin to get his supper.

The sun was still above the horizon and
the sky cloudy ; there was a set look about
the weather that bothered me. As a rule,
the prevailing winds in this ocean are westerly,
and these were the winds I wanted,
and had good reason to hope for ; but
here was the wind dead east, and breeding
up in puffs as the sun declined, and the brig
was heading right out for the middle of the
Pacific. And yet she was sailing too. If
you have ever seen a deeply laden barge
beating up a river against a stiff breeze
and the ebb-tide, you will be able to form
some idea of the manner in which this
water-logged hull sailed; there w r as not an
atom of lift in her : she soothed through
it like a log of pitch-pine sawn off square.
The wind had raised a little sea, though
nothing to speak of, and the waves travelled
along our bulwarks just as they would
against the side of a pier. Her sails were
round and hard as the side of an apple, and
the boatswain, with his tobacco-pipe sticking

out of his cheek, went about trying the
stays with his hands, testing the jib and
topsail halliards, and looking about him
critically for weak points ; whilst Matthews
peered on his hands and knees down the
forecastle, or went and squinted over the
bows, and ferreted about in all directions
like a dog that had lost its reckonings, and
was too troubled in its mind to lie down
and keep still.

But it was delightful to me to look up
and behold the sails full, and hear the
tumble of water slipping past ; to see those
men forward and Nelly sitting by my side.
I thought of my loneliness this time yesterday,
and of the fire-raft, and how I had laid
me down, scarcely daring to hope that I
should ever be permitted to see Nelly
again ; and then I thought of her sufferings
at that very time, and my heart swelled
with thankfulness to reflect that we were
together, and that this very brig, which I
had cursed in my passion as the cause of
my misfortunes, had been my sweetheart's
salvation, and rescued her from thai worst
horror of shipwreck — starvation in an open
boat.

Some such thoughts as these were in her
mind too, I knew, from the expression in
her soft eyes when our glance met ; but
our memory was too keen, our sufferings —
and hers especially — too recent, to enable
us to endure, for the present at least, further
reference to the past.

After we had remained for some time
silent she said, "Will, I wish you would
show me how to steer. I used to watch
the men on the Walderskare, and believe
I could manage ; one lesson from you would
make me perfect. A time may come when
all of you will be wanted to attend to the
sails, and it would be very useful if I could
steer."

My darling, there is nothing easier.
Come and stand here. Lay hold of these
spokes now. First of all, always remember
to stand on the weather side of the wheel —
the side on which the wind is blowing."

"Yes, I know that."

The wheel reverses the action of the
tiller. If you were steering with a tiller,
and I should call out ' Hard a starboard,'
you would put the tiller over to the right-hand

side, and that would make the vessel's
head fall off on the port or left-hand side.
But to obey that order with the wheel you
would have to turn it from left to right, —
so ; because, if you will look at the rudderhead,
you will see the tiller is fitted the
reverse way to the tiller that is used in
steering without a wheel, and the action of
the wheel revolves the chains, which drag
the tiller the way you want it to go."

I see. Then, if you were to cry out
1 Hard a port,' I should have to put the
wheel over to starboard ? "

Eight, my sweet little blue-jacket ! Now
look at that black mark in the compass
there ; that is called the lubber's point.
It is in a direct line with the brig's head,
so that in whatever direction the vessel is
going, that mark turns with her. Suppose
I tell you that the brig's course is northwest,
then, to keep her to that course, you
must get those letters on the card to swing
true to the mark. If the vessel rolls or
pitches, the card will swing from side to
side ; and it is the business of the helmsman
to see that those letters don't swing

further on one side of that mark than on
the other. That is, you must make that
mark strike the mean — the centre, so to
say — of the swing of those letters. Do you
understand? "

Perfectly."

Therefore, in steering, all that you have
to do is to take care that the course, he
it north-west or south-east, or whatever
else it may be, swings true to the mark.
If the wind won't let it swing true, then
the yards must be trimmed. If by trimming
the yards you cannot get the course
to come true to that mark, then there is
no help for it — the wind is foul; the ship
must fall off, though kept as close as she
will lie. However, that is the business of
the officer of the watch, and has nothing
to do with you as helmsman. Whichever
way the course swings, you have only to
turn the wheel the reverse way to the
swing of the card, to bring the course back.

I gave her an illustration by revolving
the wheel a trifle, and then told her to
experiment for herself. She might, indeed,
sweet girl, have had a lighter vessel to learn

lier steering lesson in ; yet tins sunken
hull gave her the ideas she needed. I saw
her knitting her fair brows as she thought
out the not very intricate problem, moving
the wheel cautiously the while. Presently
she surrendered the spokes to me, with a
smile full of childlike pleasure and vanity.

"I know all about it now, Will," said
she ; " and, by being able to steer, I shall
be as good as a fifth man to you, shan't I,
dear ? And give me a chance of proving
my boast when you can, for I want my
sailor to be proud of his sweetheart, and to
be able to say great things of her when we
get back."

She checked her laugh and drew a sudden
breath, as she looked round and whispered,
If we ever do get back, Will ! "

Never doubt it, Nell!" I exclaimed,
cheerfully. " Do not you believe in the
little cherub that sits up aloft, and watches
over poor Jack and his sweetheart too,
Nell? Have no fear, my precious ! Every
hour of this sailing increases our chance of
rescue; and, if I had not confidence in all
being well with us presently, and after a

little longer trial of our patience and our
hope, I would not say what I feel in my
heart, — that would to God I could be sure
that my brave little shipmate Thomas, and
the rest of the people of the poor old Wdl-
dersJiare, were as safe as we five are."

She was interrupted in. some answer she
was about to make, by Johnson coming to
take the wheel.

By this time the sun had gone, but the
glory of his setting was still making a noble
show of the western sky, towards which
the clouds were hurrying out of the east,
sailing up with brows of amber over a
heaven of dark soft blue.

I watched his setting last night, Nelly'
I whispered, as we stood together looking
towards the west. " A wonderful and a
happy change has befallen us since then;
and let us pray that when he sets again,
he may leave us happier and more grateful
still."

END OE VOL. II.

london: printed by william closes and sons, limited,
siam-ord sxkekx a;sd charing cross.

^^\.^

L I G) Mary

OF THE

U N I V t RSITY

or ILLINOIS

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/sailorssweethear03rus

AN ACCOUNT OF

THE WRECK OF THE SAILING SHIP,
'' WALDERSHAREr

FROM THE NARRATIVE OF MR. WILLIAM LEE,
SECOND MATE.

W. Clark Russell,

AUTHOR OF "THE WRECK OF THE GROSVENOR," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE cl Livingston,
CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1880.

(All rights rcserveil.)

PRINTED BY William Closes And Sons, LIMITED,

SIAIUOKD STREET AKl; Charing CROSS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

I. Land Ho! . „. . . 1

11. An Enchanted Rock . . 44

III. The Death of the Boatswain . . 91

IV. The Two Compasses . . 136

V. At Sea Again . . . 175

Vr. H.M.S. 248

Chapter I.

LAND HO !

The coming on of the night at sea has
always a solemnity in it. Ashore the darkness
leaves things familiar : the well-known
house, the old mill, the village lights, are
at hand to defeat the illusions of the gloom ;
but at sea when the night falls it is like
looking into space ; there is nothing to see ;
the flash of phosphorus in the near wave,
the glimmer of foam alongside the ship, do
not help to make real the huge dark shadow
that leans away to the stars — that swelling
surface of ebony whose might and presence
you feel, but only see darkly.

But it is only the man who has boon in

VOL. III. B

peril on the deep who can understand the
awe, the dread, the sense of helplessness
and littleness that come into the mind
along with the deep shadow of the night
upon the sea. The power that lifts the
huge iron ship of war, filled with an army
of men, as easily as it lifts the little cork
that floats alongside, is felt as a mystery :
the distances are visionary and, but for the
heavenly bodies which hang near the horizon,
could not be defined.

Although I had just been endeavouring
to cheer my sweetheart with words of hope,
yet as the flush of the sunset left the sky,
and the horizon melted into gloom, and the
rigging of the brig became as delicate as
cobwebs, and vanished before the eye had
reached to half the height of the masts, and
the surface of the ocean was expressed in
the breaking waves which ran in coils of
ink laced with blue fires, and the paled
gleam of froth against the almost buried
stern of the brig, and the deep set of her
sides, — the nearness of the dark and swallowing
water oppressed me ; there recurred
something of the dismay that had visited

me two nights before, when I was afraid of
the dark, and had chmg to the light in the
cabin.

However, my professional contempt of
nervous sentiment ahoy came to my rescue,
and I soon despatched the nonsense that a
few minutes' silent contemplation of the
dark sea had put into my mind.

I told Matthews to get the green light
trimmed, and to run it up to the masthead,
after which I took Nelly to her berth, as I
was determined that she should have a long
night's rest. When we had said good-night
I came back and joined the boatswain, and
walked the deck with him for half an hour ;
and we talked of the Waldersharej and the
chances of the long-boat, and then of the
brig and her crew. I told him of the money
aboard, and of the things in the captain's
lockers, and to whom the cargo was consigned,
and, in short, I gave him her history
as I had read it in her papers.

This set him talking of a shipwreck lie
had experienced ; it was a long story, but
like hundreds of others you may get from
old sailors. Had such a tale been related

to me on the Waldershare I should have
felt bored ; but all the time he was yarning,
I was saying to myself, 'what would I
have given last night to have had this man
by my side, and to hear his voice ? " and
when I thought of the fears my loneliness
had brought, and glanced around upon the
dark decks where last night I was alone,
craving for a human voice, it so gladdened
me to hear him telling, that I could have
gone on listening all night.

'keep a bright look-out for ships," said
I, " and call me if there is any change in
the weather. I don't think we need fear
much sea if this breeze don't freshen ; and
let the brig have as much as she'll carry."
I also told him to keep the log going, and
as I could not find a slate, I ruled a sheet
of paper, and left it on the cabin table,
along with one of the chronometers, which,
being set to the time of my watch, made a
splendid timekeeper.

Before turning in I hove the log with the
boatswain, and wrote down the speed and
the brig's course, that being the first entre
Being without sextant and meridian time, I

had nothing to depend upon but this reel-log,
and as I feared I might ultimately have
to shape my course for the South Sea
Islands, and as I certainly knew that I was
absolutely at the mercy of the wind, it was
extremely important that I should preserve
some idea of my whereabouts.

I fell asleep instantly and slept like a
top, having had only four hours' rest in the
previous night. At eight bells, "or midnight,
according to the chronometer, I was aroused
by the boatswain. I at once got up and
went on deck, and found that the breeze
had freshened during the first watch into a
strong wind ; there was more light in the
sky, or perhaps the air was made clearer
by the breaking of the waves, for now there
was a regular tumble of sea. On either hand
of us the surges ran their frothing heads as
high as the rail of the bulwarks, already the
decks were streaming, and the boatswain
told me that not five minutes before a
whole heap of green water had toppled over
the weather quarter, and had floated the
quarter-deck as high as the knees of
Matthews, who was steering.

This could not be helped, and if the breeze
did not freshen I would not complain, for it
was not to be hoped that we were going to
keep the decks of a water-logged brig divin
any kind of sea-way.

I told the boatswain to turn in and get
rest whilst he could, and then went to the
wheel and secured Johnson to the little
grating abaft it, by taking a turn with a
rope's end round his waist. The-sind was
still dead east — a warm wind — and had the
brig been afloat properly, we should have
thought it a splendid sailing breeze. I
watched to see how she steered, and found
that she gave very little trouble, the trim of
the yards keeping her steady, and the big
mizzen helping the lee helm wonderfully.
The last heave of the log showed her pushing
through it at four knots, with still three
points leeway, and had she been going ten
she could not have made more sputter : her
wake was like a steamer's ; it was not sailing,
but what the boatswain had called
squelching.

I went on to the deck-house to have a
better command of the horizon. My anxiety

was very great, for if the breeze brought up
any more sea, oiir situation would be one of
extreme peril. The greatest risk we ran was
that of what sailors call being pooped ; that
is, being swept by a sea toppling over the
stern and sweeping forward. If once we
lost command of the helm, the brig would
broach to, and then away would go her
masts ; should her masts go, it was ten to
one if they did not smash her bulwarks, and
then our position would be hopeless indeed.

And yet there was no choice between
stripping her of her canvas or letting her goas
she was. If we put her under bare poles
she would fall broadside on to the sea just
as she lay when I boarded her, and in that
posture she would ship enough water at
the first lurch to fill her decks ; if I kept all
fast with her canvas we stood the chance of
being pooped, of losing the wheel, and our
spars, and destroying the bulwarks. This,
however, was but a risk, whereas the seas
were sure to sweep the deck if we handed
the canvas and let her fall broadside on;
so I resolved to let her go as she was.

I watched the sea as a man would a

crouching beast, expecting every moment
the spring that must destroy him. I was
very anxious about the boats, too, for if
they should be injured our last hope would
have to be abandoned. From time to time
a great lump of black water would tumble
over the weather bulwarks, and flash into a
broad surface of fiery foam as it struck the
deck, and every now and again a sea would
hit the brig's stern a thumping blow, and
shoot up into spray, which the vrmd. would
fling down upon me and Johnson as though
a heavy tropical thunder-shower were falling.
I had been on the top of the deck-house
half an hour, sometimes imagining that the
wind was freshening, sometimes that it was
falling, sometimes watching with suspended
breath the inky outline of a sea towering
higher than the rest, and rendered visible
by the foam of the breaking waters around
it ; and then starting as a surge, striking the
vessel's quarter, would run forward along
the side of the brig in an ever-heightening
column, imtil, before it reached the foregoing,
it would arch its dark form under
the pressure of the wind, and coil like a

cataract of ink on to the deck, and come
rushing and creaming and seething aft,
floating the planks which yet remained, and
launching them against the bulwarks of the
front of the deck-house like small battering-rams
in the hands of a giant, while overhead
the swelling canvas, that appeared to be
supported by masts whose base was the
water itself, was howling and booming with
the force of the wind, as it swept out of the
spacious concavities and fled away under
the foot of them, or pom-ed out from the
after-leech of the mizzen ; when my eye was
attracted by a shadow like a smirch upon
the sky in the south-west.

'' A sail ! " I shouted to Johnson ; and the
glass being on the deck-house, I seized and
levelled it.

The telescope, as I have said, was a very
powerful one, and through it I could distinctly
make out the outline of a large
barque heading at an angle with our own
course, steering about N.N.E. She was
carrying a great press of sail ; indeed, sofar
as I could make out, she had both her
royal set, and as she was going free she
swept like a cloud along the waters.

The green lantern was at our masthead,
burning brightly ; but if she saw it, would
she know that it was designed as a signal of
distress? At the rate at which she sailed
she would be athwart our hawse, to windward
and out of sight in twenty minutes. I
sprang into the cabin and awakened the
boatswain, exclaiming that there was a
vessel in sight, and that we must at once
devise some means of letting her know that
wee were in distress.

He was a true sailor and wide awake and
on deck in a few moments. He saw the
vessel before I could point her out ; she was
on OUT lee quarter and leaning heavily over
under the tower of canvas she carried, and
was heading so as to cross our bows, though,
had the brig possessed any speed in her
heels, we should have made the barque pass
under our stern.

The boatswain knew as well as I the
extreme gravity of our peril in the event of
more sea rising, and wee both felt that the
sighting of this barque was a chance that
might not occur again for days and days;
and sighting her now, when we neither of

lis knew but that in another hour the brig
might be washing about, a helpless dismasted
wreck, and offering us no better
refuge than the deck-house, drove us both
desperate.

^^What shall we do to attract her?" I
shouted. ^' Surely they can see that masthead
light."

*' Make a flare forrard, sir — make a flare
forrard ! " cried the boatswain. " ^' Why, see
how she's passing away ! God help us — we
might be anchored ! "

Matthews, hearing our cries, came running
out of the cabin. I told him to jump forward
and help the boatswain to collect materials
for a flare on the forecastle ; and he was off
like a madman, understanding, without need
of further words, that a sail was in sight.
Whilst they were at work, I laid hold of the
halliards to which the lantern was attached,
and lowered and raised the light several
times, all the while keeping my eyes intently
fixed on the shadow of the barque that had
now forged abeam of us, and whose outline
was visible upon the sea just above the
port bulwarks. She was drawing momently

nearer to us, as she came heading on a Hne
converging with the direction in which the
brig was going ; and I felt as sure that they
saw us as that we saw her, and that they
could attach no other meaning to the motion
I gave to the lantern than the one I
intended.

The gloom was too great to enable me to
see whether she shortened sail, but, in defiance
of the hope that was making my
heart beat furiously, I might judge that
they were keeping all fast by the regularity
of the speed at which she was passing us.
Twice whilst I was working the lantern
there poured such a flood of water inboard
as swept my legs from under me, and I only
narrowly escaped being hurled to leeward by
clinging with all my strength to the running
gear that was belayed at the foot of
the mast.

Hearing the blows of a chopper, I shouted
to the boatswain to know how he was
getting on. He answered that he could
not find any small stuff, and was obliged to
split up a plank so as to get a start with his
flare ; ^' but everything's so bloody wet," he

bawled, ^^tliat I'm afeard we'll never get it
to burn." I thought it a matter of life and
death, and, belaying the halliards, rushed
into the carpenter's berth and brought out
an armful of canvas, along with a quantity
of oakum that lay mixed up with the canvas
in the locker under the bunk ; and ran to
join the boatswain, slashing the water as
high as my mouth as I floundered forward.
But the decks were afloat fore and aft ; there
was no dry place for a flare unless it was the
top of the galley ; so I jumped on to it and
put the canvas and oakum down, and keeping
my foot upon it to prevent it flowing
overboard, I sung out to the boatswain to
hand me up such small stuff as he had collected,
and then set fire to the oakum.

The tar blazed, the dry canvas caught,
and in a few moments we should have had a
great fire, when a sea struck the brig just
abaft the fore-chains. A whole ocean of
water ran up half as high as the foremast
and plumped right down, extinguishing the
fire, beating the breath out of my body and
half drowning me, washing the boatswain
round the galley, and driving Matthews

sputtering and choking as far as the deck-house,
that brought him up.

Hardly knowing whether I was overboard
or not, and it being pitch dark where I was,
under the shadow of the main staysail, I
called to the boatswain to hear what had
become of him ; and on his replying that he
was not hurt, we scrambled aft and gained
the top of the deck-house, where we found
Matthews. I asked Johnson if all was well
with him, and he replied, ^'Ay, ay; the
water had come as high as his waist, but
had done him no hurt."

Fortunately the wheel was elevated above
the deck, and was protected from the seas
breaking forward by the intervention of the
deck-house. This was the heaviest sea the
vessel had yet shipped. There was no
possibility of making a flare unless we
kindled one in the tops, where we stood
to set fire to the rigging ; and, utterly
disheartened, half drowned, our teeth chattering
in our heads, with the water streaming
fi-om us, we could do no more than hold
on to the rail and watch the barque drawing
ahead.

I had passed some hours of great mental
suffering since I had boarded the brig, but
nothing to equal the bitterness, the despair,
the rage, that filled my heart in turns as
I beheld the vessel speeding onwards from
us. I knew, with every instinct of a sailor,
that she had seen us ; that, even supposing
(an unlikely supposition) there was no officer
of the watch and no man on deck on the
look-out at the time, the man at the wheel
would have noticed the movements of the
green light, and long ago have made out
that we were a small vessel in distress,
and given the alarm. She was passing us
not above half a mile ahead, and one look
through the glass would have enabled them
to see that we were water-logged and in the
utmost peril.

Yet she held on. She crossed our bows,
and loomed up close to windward ; then her
shadow lost its defined proportions ; she
became a mere smudge against the sky, and
in a quarter of an hour she was out of sight,
swallowed up in the gloom.

^^It can't be helped, sir," said the boatswain,
squeezing the water out of his eyes
and wringing his hair.

I was too bitterly mortified and disappointed
to speak. I thought of my daring
in the cabin, and then that they had seen
us and could have stood by and saved us
had they liked; and, in my blind passion,
I shook my fist at the vessel as she faded.

<f Why, Mr. Lee, be yourself, sii' ! " cried
the boatswain. ^' Pluck up your heart, and
never mind them cowards. The lady below
looks to you for her life, sir ; and a man
must be cool if he means to see his way out
o' a mess of this kind."

I stood rebuked by a man who would
have called himself my inferior. He was
right, and I was wrong. ^' You have made
me ashamed of my weakness," said I, 'rand
I'll take care that your advice is not thrown
away. What shall we do ? Shall we keep
the brig under canvas and risk her spars
if the wheel be washed away, or shall we
put her under bare poles, secure ourselves
below, and let the breeze blow itself out ? "

He reflected awhile, looking to windward,
then said, '' I'm for letting of her be, sir.
She can't sink, even if her masts do go."

''No, but they may carry away the bulwarks

with them ; and then think of the
horrible muddle alongside — the spars grinding
against her fit to break her np ! "

'' Still I'm for letting of her be, Mr. Lee,"
he answered. 'sit may be my fancy, but
the wind don't seem so fresh as it was.
What do you say, Bill?"

Wiping his streaming face down with the
backs of his hands, Matthews turned his
eyes towards the stern, and said, " There
ain't so much wind as there was."

Indeed, this was evident to myself, though
I judged the diminished force of the windless
by the feel of it than by the way the
sails were drawing, and by the peculiar,,
lengthy fall and hollow sound of the water
alongside. Moreover, albeit the inroads of
the sea were still heavy, they were not
so frequent. The water invariably broke
over the brig forward, just abaft the foregoing,
and rushed aft on either side the
deck-house in a sputter and fury of froth as
high as Johnson's knees ; but latterly not a
drop had been shipped over the quarter.

I called to Johnson to know how she
steered.

VOL. Ill, c

Easy enough, so far as the wheel goes,
snout it's micldlmg wet work standing
down here," he answered, cheerfully.

We remained waiting and watching. In
half an hour's time the certainty that the
wind vas falling rallied my suits ; moreover,
the night had grown lighter and the
stars were shining all around the horizon.
I told Matthews to step below and bring
up some rum, and we each of us swallowed
a good dram, and handed a bumper to
Johnson, who lead been at the wheel since
midnight, above three hours, during which
time he had been standing in eater as high
as his knees, whilst occasionally the rush of
the waves had floated him as high as his
armpits. Matthews now relieved him, and
I told Johnson to keep watch on the deck-house,
whilst the boatswain and I overhauled
the lockers below for some dry
clothing. Although we none of us had
much fear of salt-water whilst there was
work to be done, yet soaking clothes clinging
to the skin become mighty uncomfortable
wear when a four hours' watch has to be
stood, or when one wants to lie dovrn to
get some sleep.

We took the lamp into the carpenter's
berth, where we overhauled the chest of
clothes, and found, in addition to the old
pilot jacket, a sleeved waistcoat, two pans
of pilot cloth trousers, some flannel and
stout cotton shirts, and some long, warm
shank-hose, such as sailors wear under sea-boots.
So here were clothes enough to give
Johnson and Matthews a shift, and to
contribute towards a wardrobe for the
boatswain.

In the mate's chest we found more wearing
apparel; two new Scotch caps, shirts,
vests for the skin, some shoes, and other
articles of dress, mixed up with a great
quantity of papers, such as leaves from old
log-books, parcels of invoices, and the like,
as though a whole shelf of pigeon-holes had
been emptied into the chest.

The boatswain and I then turned to and
changed our streaming clothes, and the feel
of the warm woollen shirts and the dry-trousers
was as comforting as twelve hours'
sleep would have been. We rolled our wet
clothes into bundles ready for drying when
the sun rose, and then want on deck in our

bare feet with oiir breeches tucked above
our knees, and I sent Matthews and Johnson
below to shift themselves, I taking the
wheel.

There was about as much wind now as
there had been yesterday afternoon, and
no more, a pleasant warm breeze and the
sea settling down, so that only now and
again a few bucketfuls of water flopped
over the bulwarks forward. Yet, though
danger for that time had passed, I could
not recur to it without deep uneasiness ;
for if the brig was unable to meet a sea
moderate enough to allow the barque that
had passed us to carry royal, what would
be our fate should a gale rise ? how long-would
this hull, already strained by the seas
she had encountered, filled with the dead
weight of water and timber, without buoyancy,
yield or elasticity, be able to contend
with the waves should a long interval of
bad weather set in ?

It was, indeed, hard upon us that the
wind should hang in the east when the
only wind that could save us — and it was
the wind we had the most right to expect

in these seas — must blow from the directly
opposite quarter.

When the men, having changed their
clothes, came on deck again, I hove the
log and made the speed between three and
a half and three and three-quarter knots,
with the same number of points leeway I
had before found. I put this down in pencil,
and then told the boatswain and Matthews
to go and turn in until eye o'clock ; for as
they had been up during the greater part
of their watch below, they would have had
but little rest had they relieved me at four
o'clock. They were very thankful for the
chance, for, to be sure, we had all of us
passed through a most exhausting time ;
though my own weariness was not like that
which makes a man crave for sleep, but a
sensation of hollowness in the chest, a
langour in all the limbs, a dimness of the
sight, such as one feels after sitting through
a night by the bedside of a dying mother
or wife, or such, indeed, as attends great
mental conflict and cruel, wearisome trial.

In spite of the floods of water which the
brig had shipped, the deck-house was as dry

as an old bone, wliicli went far to increase
my admiration of the manner in wliicli the
vessel was built. I turned in at five o'clock,
and was awakened at seven by the sunshine
streaming on my face through the little
cabin window. "When I had laid down it
was dark, and before I fell asleep my mind
was full of the water sweeping over the
wreck, the horrible anxiety I had endured,
the shadow of the barque passing away
ahead and dissolving upon the gloom ; and
now the first thing I saw when I opened my
eyes was this glorious beam of sunshine.

It is impossible to express the feeling of
gladness it brought, the wonderfully cheering
influence of it as I lay a few moments
watching the little window that it had
transformed into a pane of transparent gold.
Here was come another day, and a fine one,
and as I sprang out of my bunk, caring to
lie no longer, my heart put up a prayer to
God that before another night shadowed
the deep we might be safe.

I stood at the cabin door looking along
the deck. The galley fire was lighted, as I
could tell by the smoke blowing away from

the chimney ; the decks vere quite dry and
barred b^ the shadows of the rigging ; and
there, close against the galley, was Nelly,
helping Matthews to hang up our wet
clothes. She had tied a handkerchief over
her head and had tucked up her dress, and
never did her lovely figure show to such
perfection as now, while she stood with her
back to me with her arms raised, attaching
the clothes to a hne by means of rope-yarns,
whilst Matthews hoisted away as
fast as she slung the things. The sailor
saw me and spoke to her; she instantly
looked around and ran up to me.

I drew her into the cabin and greeted her
after the fashion that pleased us both, and
then she said that she had been on deck
since six o'clock, that she had helped
Matthews to light the galley fire, and that
she was going to get breakfast for us ; but
first she wanted to finish hanging up those
things, and would I come forward and talk
to her whilst she worked ? and she was
pulling me by the hand, when she stopped,
and, looking up and down my figure, burst
into a laugh. My eye followed hers, and

then I laughed too. The truth was, in the
hurry of changing our clothes, the boatswain
and I had seized the first that came
to hand out of the mate's chest, and there
being but a feeble Hight in consequence of
the lamp not haying been trimmed since
the previous evening, I had noticed neither
the fit nor the colour of what I had put on.

I had turned in all standing, and now
that I was up I perceived that I had habited
myself in a green satin waistcoat that I had
imagined to be black camlet, a red shirt,
and a pair of black cloth trousers big enough
to have held a couple of aldermen. This,
with a cutaway coat, the sleeves of which
I had been obliged to turn up, adorned with
large, smooth brass buttons, and so voluminous
in the back that it hung in as many
folds from my shoulders as a spanker half-hailed
up from a gaff, completed my toilet,
not forgetting that my legs as high as my
knees were as bare as a baby's. Had I
blacked my face and mounted the mate's
straw hat, I should have passed very well
for a street-nigger.

^' Why, good gracious me!" said I,

laughing consiimedly, as I revolved like a
top in my efforts to obtain a view of my
hinder parts, "the mate of this brig must
have been a giant. As I live, a pea-green
satin waistcoat ! And see these buttons !
Crikey, here is a rig for a sailor ! Could
these have been Mr. Sidewell's preparations
for a South American fandango ? Oh, pray
excuse me, Nelly; I can't really exhibit
myself to the boatswain and the others in
this rig."

And I dived into my berth, where, after
overhauling the chest, I found a black velvet
waistcoat, which I substituted for the green
satin one ; but though there were other
trousers, they were all as big as the ones
I had on, and I could not hind another coat ;
so, meaning later on to search the captain's
lockers for more suitable garments, I went
on deck, a little less brilliantly clad, but
looking like a man swollen with gout. The
boatswain, who was a large man, filled out
his clothes very fairly, and the grin we exchanged,
therefore, was a rather one-sided
one.

He was at the wheel, and I went to see

how the brig was heading. If the wind had
been controlled by the weather-cock that
Tom Sheridan fixed at east in his schoolmaster's
garden to prevent the old doctor
from venturing out, it could not have been
more steady. It had not veered by so much
as a quarter of a point since it had come onto
blow, and here was the brig still swarming
along at about three knots an hour, with the
wind very nearly over her stern, the sea
smooth, with the morning sunlight trembling
in it as though every little wave were of
frosted silver, a clear blue sky with here and
there a wool white cloud overhead, and not
an object in sight.

We could have set more canvas had we
chosen — a couple of studding-sails and the
main royal ; but when the boatswain asked
me if I thought of making more sail, I
answered, "As we are heading now, I do
not see of what use more canvas will be tous
; we ought not to fix our thoughts upon
the South Sea Islands so long as the American
coast lies nearer to us ; we do not want
to go west, we want to go east, and my only
reason in letting' the brig drive forward at

all is because we are making a little nothing,
and the higher we advance the greater
is our chance of meeting ships."

"You're quite right, Mr. Lee; there
would be no use in running west if we wasn't
going north too," he replied. " But I wish
I could see a way to make this brig more
weatherly. I've been turning all sorts of
notions over in my mind, sir; sometimes
I'd think, how would it answer "if we was to
fence the bulwarks with these here planks
give 'em a rise of two or three foot ?
But Lord, sir, it 'ud be of no use. The first
sea would knock the very best job we could
turn out into smithereens."

There's nothing to be done in thatway^
bo'sun. I've thought over a good many
things myself; but I've come to this conclusion,
that there is no other look-out for
us than to keep the brig sailing as far
north as we can edge her, and to pray for
smooth water and that a sail may heave insight
soon."

"I'm afraid that's about it, Mr. Lee,"
answered Sinnet, with something like a
groan.

I went forward to give Nelly a hand if she
wanted it, but by this time the clothes were
all slung, and Matthews was tracing them
lip, and the shirts and trousers fluttering in
the wind made the brig look like a laundry-woman's
yard. And yet the homely sight
seemed to civilize our condition, too ; there
was a suggestion of life and safety in those
fluttering garments and the smoke of the
galley fire.

*why, Nelly, you are going to work in
earnest," said I. remind you do not tire
yourself."

^' Don't be afraid ; if you knew how much
more contented it makes me feel to have
something to do, you would keep me employed
all day long. Besides," said she,
looking at me earnestly, '*I have a right
to claim a share in the work on board.
You would not, surely, have me sit still
and look on whilst you were working, when
I could be of use. If it should please God
to preserve us, why should not I be able to
have my boast as well as you, dear ? I can
pull a rope, I can steer, I can light a fire, I
can use a telescope, and have as good eyes
for a distant ship as any of you."

*' My darling, you shall please yourself.
But as to your having a boast, are you not
satisfied with already having saved three lives
by your courage and example to the men who
were adrift with you in the bo at ? If you
had not put the idea of searching for this
brig into their minds, and urged them to
persevere in hunting for her, you would all
have perished, and I should have remained
alone, and in all human likelihood perished
too."

^' It is your love that makes you talk like
that," said she, blushing and laughing.
^' My behaviour in the boat counts for nothing.
I want to be of use here, to do my
share of the work, and you must find me
employment. Will, or I shall be hunting-after
work for myself and making blunders."

'well, I promise," I answered. 'rand
after breakfast I wil set you to carry out
a really important job. Now tell me what
sort of a night you passed."

I should have come on deck if I had
not been afraid of my terrible sweetheart,"
she said, looking at me out, of the corner of
her eyes, while the sun made a whole sparkling

tumble of the surface of her golden-brown
hair, and her white throat contrasted
like the breast of a sea-gull against the collar
of her dress, and her hands, locked upon her
breast, on the finger of one of which sparkled
the ring I had given her, looked like carvings
in white ivory, and every yield of her
figure to the languid roll of the deck lent
graceful undulations to her superb outlines ;
and then changing her voice, and fixing her
eyes on me with intense affectionate anxiety
in the expression of them, she exclaimed,
'' Oh, Will, I know that you have passed a
dreadful night. I see it on my boy's face. I
lay a long while listening to the roaring of the
water as it rushed past the cabin, and every
moment expected you to come to me and
say the brig was going to pieces. I heard
you calling the boatswain and telling him
to * make a flare ' — those where the words, I
think ; and I knew that a ship was in sight.
Yet I never stirred, though I would have
given anything to have been on deck. Tell
me, now, if I am not obedient and to be
trusted."

I was deeply moved to hear that she had

been awake dining the night, and lead heard
what had passed on deck; for I very well
knew how the imagination, fed by our
shouts, and the dashing of the water alongside
the deck-house, as it burst in thunder
over the brig, would serve the bravest manor
woman lying alone in a little berth in
darkness, and capable only of judging the
character of the peril by the terrifying
noises which reached the ear ; and I cannot
conceive any act of heroism on ber part that
would have paralleled in my admiration the
fortitude exhibited by her under conditions
which, I say, would have wrought up the
imagination of the bravest man into an
agony of expectation and suspense. I
thought of the boatswain's description of
Madame Espinosa rushing on deck when
the Waldershare struck, and shrieking out ;
I recalled the description given by eyewitnesses
of the yelling and confusion
among men and women in times of danger
at sea ; and my heart was fired with admiration
and love when I reflected on the long,
dreadful hours which had been passed in
solitude, and caliijy, by Nelly in the night
just gone.

She went into the galley to look after
the breakfast, and though I did not like to
see her in that grimy place, I could not
choose but let her have her own way. I
took the tour of the brig forward, to note-how
the gear we had set up yesterday had
stood the wear of the night, and finding the
stays slack, I called Matthews, and we
clapped the jigger on to them; otherwise
everything was taut and strong.

I then went out on the bowsprit to have
a look at the brig's bows, thinking it not
impossible but that she might have taken
water in through one of her bow ports ; but
she was too deep, and the water too thick,
for me to see anything. From this point
of view I could better realize the perilous
character of the set of the hull in the water,
than by looking at her aft or from aloft.
Her decks were as nearly as possible flush
with the sea; her bulwarks stood up just
like the sides of a flat-bottomed box afloat.
It was impossible to look at her without
shuddering and feeling a kind of recoil, for
she gave one the impression of being in the
act of settling down, and every heave

seemed the last she would take before her
stern disappeared. As I viewed her thus I
was astonished that more water had not
come aboard last night. The sea was so
close, and the hull so sluggish, that a very
small height of wave, one might imagine,
would fall over the rail as over the edge of
a floating saucer. It was certain she had
more buoyancy in her than I imagined.

At eight o'clock we got breakfast, Johnson
turning out to relieve the boatswain at
the wheel. Matthews brought the tea aft,
and some little cakes made by Nelly, which
we ate with salt butter, and very heartily
enjoyed. I now gave my sweetheart the
key of the store-room, and explained the
nature of the important job I wished her to
undertake. It was this : that she should
make out a list of the stores and spirits, and
also calculate the quantity of fresh water in
the scuttle-butts, and reckon how long they
would last the five of us at so much each
per diem, and to serve out that quantity
every morning whilst we remained on the
wreck.

This was indeed an important matter,

VOL. III. u

and the moment we had done breakfast she
went to work. I took the opportunity of
her being out of her berth to overhaul the
captain's lockers for a suit of clothes that
would fit me better than those I had on ;
and found a complete suit of grey tweed,
that fitted me as if the tailor had worked to
my measure. I felt easier in these clothes,
not only because they fitted me well, but
because they were of light material, and sat
without weight, whereas in the mate's togs
I felt wrapt up in a blanket. At the same
time I collected the money out of the mate's
chest, and made it into a parcel along with
the money in the captain's berth. I also
made a parcel of the other miscellaneous
articles, and put them aside in a convenient
place, ready to take with me should we leave
the brig.

After I had done this I found Nelly
puzzled to find out the exact quantity of
water in the scuttle-butts. This bothered
nie too ; and when she proposed to measure
it by pouring it into a tub, by means of the
soda-water bottle, I believed there was no
other way ; though I did not like the notion

either, as I feared some might be wasted in
the emptying, and though there was a good
drop left, there was not so great a plenty as
to justify me in hazarding, as much as a gill
of it.

At last I thought we might get at it
pretty accurately by first gauging the depth
of the water in each cask, and afterwards
finding the number of cubic inches in as
much of the casks as the water "filled ; and
then, by ascertaining how many inches a
half pint contained, we should be able to
learn how many gallons of water there were
in the scuttle-butts. This calculation took
me some time, not being a very bright hand
at figures of this kind ; though in navigation
calculations I would call few men my
masters ; and at last I made out that there
were very nearly seventy-two gallons of
water in the two casks, and Nelly then
went to work to discover how long this
quantity woukl last ii\e persons, by putting
them on an allowance of a pint and a half
each per day.

To guard against any risk of a sea washing
these casks away from their lashing, 1

filled a number of empty lime-juice and
spirit jars with water, and stowed them
away in the store-room ; and as this and
other jobs had brought the hour to ten
o'clock, I left Nelly to finish her list of
stores, in order to relieve Johnson at the
wheel.

But first I thought I would go aloft and
have a look around. It was a clear, brilliant
morning, and I knew it would be possible to
see a great distance, by the wonderful
purity of the line of the horizon, that lay
ruled against the sky as sharply as ever you
have seen the summit of a dark coast hove
up in the keen atmosphere of an English
winter day.

I had, of course, but one hope, and that
was to sight a ship ; and I made up my
mind as I went aloft, with the telescope
slung at my back, that should we have the
luck to make out another sail, we should all
of us immediately go to work to raise the
densest smoke we could get out of the
planks still remaining, and damp canvas,
and pieces of junk, and all the other lumber
we could collect ; nay, I determined that

after dinner that day we should build up
and shelter a quantity of wood, ready for
firing at a moment's notice ; for though I
felt a bitter hatred against the barque that
had passed and deserted us in the darkness,
yet I would think they might not have
noticed the green light either, and that
could we have made a fire they would have
hove to to see what it was.

Having gained the royal-yard, that was
the highest point of ' elevation I could
attain, I set my back against the mast,
and levelled the glass at the sea that was
over the jibboom of the brig, and very
carefully swept the horizon away on the
left-hand side until I had observed every
inch of it as far as the point lying directly
over the stern, and then crossed to the
other side of the yard, and beginning again
with the glass, I had worked as far as three
points on the port bow, when I observed
a most delicate blue filmy shadow — no
bigger, indeed, than a pea — down in that
quarter, suspended over the water, wit]i
a white, quivering space between it and
the horizon.

I looked at it intently, believing it to bea
cloud, and kept on watching it to observe
whether it rose or sank ; and then, finding it
remain stationary, my heart began to beat
fast and my cheeks burn, though still I
could not tell if it was a ship or no. And
yet, if it were a ship, I could not imagine
why it was that colour, as the sun, that was
directly behind me, was shining full upon
upon it, and would certainly throw up the
white canvas.

I put down my glass for some minutes
to see if the tiny shadow would be there
when I looked again ; but, on looking, there
it was, sure enough, and if it were not land,
then I knew not what it could be, for it
was like the point of a hill or mountain
peering above the sea line and dislocated
by the refraction, so as to appear detached
and hanging clear of the water, with a
white space of swimming, quivering lustre
between it and the sea.

I would not leave the yard yet, however,
nor allow that what I had seen would
remain in sight. Although I might, be
out of my reckonings twenty miles, yet I

was sure I could not be further astray than
that, and for hundreds of miles to the north
and west the chart showed no land. But on
looking again and finding the shadow still
there, I threw the glass over my shoulder
and came down the rigging with a queer
trembling in my body, and went into the
deck-house.

Nelly was at the table occupied with her
calculations, and so busy that' she merely
glanced up at me with a smile as I passed
into the berth where the boatswain lay
sleeping. I opened the chart and looked
at it ; but, as I knew, no land was marked
down nearer than Mas-a-fuera and Juan
Fernandez to the N.E., and the islands
lying on the parallels of 25° and 2G'' S.,
bearing from the brig N. and N.W.

I put my hand on the boatswain's
shoulder, and he instantly opened his eyes.

'there is a shadow upon the horizon
about three points on the port bow," said
I in a low voice, not wishing Nelly to hear
me, " and it looks like land."

He immediately tumbled out of his
hammock on to the deck.

eland ! " he exclaimed, opening his eyes
wide, whilst they gleamed as if they reflected
a light behind me.

*' Hush ! " said I, putting my finger on
my mouth. ^'For fear that I may he
deceived, say nothing about it yet. Jump
aloft with this glass to the royal-yard and
give me your report."

He threw the glass over his shoulders and
ran on to the deck. I walked up to Nelly
and looked at what she was writing. She
had ruled a sheet of paper, and against the
list of provisions was entering the quantity
and how long they would last at so mucha
day. She was, indeed, coming the table
admirably, and she looked up at me with
a glad smile when I praised her work. To
see her sitting and working with her cheek
in her hand, whilst the sunshine streaming
through the skylight flooded the table with
light, made it hard for me to realize that
we were aboard a water-logged vessel, shipwrecked,
and not knowing what might be
our fate from hour to hour.

I pressed my lips to her forehead, and
went on to the top of the deck-house.

Johnson suspected that something was insight,
and was looking, as he stood at the
wheel, very eagerly at the ho at swain, who
had gained the royal-yard and was working
away with the glass.

That the object I had seen was still insight,
I was sure by the way in which
Sinnet kept the telescope pointing in one
direction. At last he took his eye from the
glass, and swinging up his arm, shouted ina
hurst of uncontrollable excitement —

'eland ho!"

'eland ho! " yelled Johnson, letting go
the wheel and springing a yard high in the
air.

Are you sure it's land ? " I bawled.

Ay," answered the boatswain ; " as sure
as yonder sky's blue."

"Hurrah!" I cried, giving way to the
transport of delight that seized me. " Land
ho ! Nelly, land ho ! " I shouted, putting
my head down the skylight. " Come on
deck, my darling ; there's land in sight ! "

She came running up on deck immediately,
and I indicated the direction
in which the land lay, and told her that

it was visible from the masthead. She
very well knew I was not deceived, and
grew very pale as she stood looking across
the sea, breathing quickly and her eyes
gleaming.

Matthews now came tumbling out of the
cabin, having been aroused by my shouts
down the skylight.

'what, is there land in sight?" he
called to Johnson.

'' Ay, Billy, your last voyage isn't taken
yet, my man!" replied Johnson; whereat
Matthews uttered a loud hurrah, and springing
into the main-rigging, went bounding
aloft to view the land for himself.

Hand him the glass, bo'sui;i," I sung
out, '' and let us see what he makes of it."

The fellow had no sooner levelled the
glass than he basis out, '' It's right enough I
that's land ! " So here were three of us
all agreed, and I had now no doubt whatever.
On this I told Matthews to loose the
main-royal, as he was up there ; and whilst
Nelly stood at the wheel, Johnson and I
set the sail. The two men then rigged
out the main-topmast studding-sail booms.

The sails were up and down the lower
rigging, and in a few minutes we sent them
up. This canvas tolerably well covered
the little brig, and on heaving the log I
found she was making a trifle over four
knots.

Chapter II.

AN Enchanted ROCK.

Had it been possible to set any more canvas
that would have been of use to the brig
with the wind aft — for in order to fill the
studding-sails I had let her go o£f a couple
of points, so as to keep the spot of land
about one point on the lee bow — we should
have piled it on her, for it behoved us to
force her through it as fast as ever she
could sail, lest the wind should fall light
and shift, in which case, as the brig would
only sail with the wind nearly aft, we should
never be able to make the land.

So fate contrived that this very east
wind that I had cursed again and again
should become the most precious of any
wind that could blow, and its failure now
would be an infinitely heavier misfortune

than its first coming on had seemed to me
to be.

I told Matthews to remain aloft with the
glass, and to con the vessel from the topgallant
yard, taking care to keep the land
at least one point on the port bow, and to
descend as the land rose. I then went
below and overhauled all the charts on the
shelves, but could only find one referring to
these seas, and, as I have said, it showed
no land to be near us for leagues and leagues.

I brought it on the deck-house, and pointing
out the spot where the brig was, as
nearly as I could guess, I let the boatswain
see that for a wide space to the north, east,
and west it was all blank. He asked me if
I thought it likely there had been an error
in the observation taken on board the
Walder share. I said no ; Mr. Thomas's and
my workings had tallied exactly. We then
measured the log-line, wondering if the brig
]had sailed faster than the log had shown,
but the measurement between the knots
corresponded accurately with the twenty
glass. Had we drifted to the
northward with a strong tide ? ho wanted to

know. I replied that, had we drifted on a
tide running ten knots an hour, we could
not have made any land in that time.

** Any way," said he, ^^ whatever land it
may he, it is land. It's not a ship ; it bent
a cloud. So land it is, whether it's marked
down or not, and that's all that we need care
about."

As much to satisfy Nelly (who, not being
able to see the land from the deck, was
looking at me as she listened to my conversation
with the boatswain, with a great
deal of anxiety) as to reassure myself, I went
aloft again, as high as the cross-trees, where,
without the glass, the delicate blue shadow
was visible, looking the size of a man's
thumb-nail, and floating like a puff of smoke
from a cannon on the horizon, towards
which the water was running in slender oily
lines.

*why," said I to Matthews, who was
perched on the yard over my head, ^^ I can
see it here. We're rising it fairly well.
Bring the glass down.

I again examined it through the telescope,
but the glass merely defined the outline and

magnified the dimensions of it ; but for its
being stationary, and rising slowly, it might
have passed for a cloud.

^' There can be no question as to its being
land," said I to Nelly, on regaining the
deck. ^' Pray God this wind hold for a few
hours longer ! "

^' Oh, Will ! " she exclaimed, clasping her
hands, '^ it seems scarcely possible ; and yet
you could not be deceived." A" gay, hopeful
smile flashed out over her face, and she
cried, '' We may be spared to see Phoebe
and Mr. Johnson and Burmarsh after all.
Will ; and oh ! what a voyage this will be
to talk over ! "

Not knowing where we were or what land
that was, it was impossible to guess the
distance it lay from us. All that I could
feel sure was that it was an island. But it
might be an island of mountains; and if
that blue shadow were the peak of a mountain,
then, in such transparent air as this,
with a bright sun shining overhead, the land
might be fifty miles off; whereas, if it were
a low, small island, it need not be more
than twelve or fifteen miles distant.

No one who has not been in such a position
as I am attempting to describe can
understand the conning anxiety that
seized us alL Yearning as we were for land,
even had we been aboard a vessel that would
sail, our fear lest the wind should shift and
delay our progress would have been terribly
great ; but here was a vessel that would
only sail before the wind. If the wind
changed we should be driven out of sight of
the land, and having no means of ascertaining
our latitude and longitude, the odds
against our being able to sight that land
again would be as heavy as a thousand to
one ; nay, I may say, we should have no
chance at all.

Besides, the sight of land had kindled a
hundred emotions in us. We were, so to
speak, used to our perilous position ; we
went about our work mechanically ; we
could only trust that all would be well with
us in the end ; but that was not like feeling
that safety was within our reach. But now,
land being in sight quickened every instinct
of life, filled us with passionate eagerness
to come at it, gave a new edge to the horrors

of onr situation, and mingled with onr burning
hopes a heart-breaking fear that disappointment
lay in wait for us.

For some time I gave way to my feelings,
and my excitement was even greater than the
others' ; but reflecting that they looked up
tome, that my being in command made it
an obligation on me to meet this new unfolding
of fate coolly and to school my mind
for the endurance of whatever might befall,
if not for the men, then at least for her who
was dearer to me than my heart's blood, I
pulled myself together, and after a short
struggle regained my composure.

** There is no reason," said I, ^^ because
land is in sight, that we should starve.
Boatswain, jump forward and see how the
galley fire burns. Here it is a quarter-past
eleven, and no meat in the copper. All the
watching in the world won't freshen the
breeze, nor keep it east, if it has a fancy io
veer. How does the land look up there,
Matthews?"

Steady as a church, sir, and growing
white," he answered from the cross-trees.
*^Wliy, then, if that be so, we're nearer

VOL. III. E

tc it than I itnagind," I exclaimed, with
my pulse beating afresh.

In order to lessen by distraction the wearing
suspense of the time to Nelly, I suggested
that she should go forwards and look to our
dinner ; and, hailing Matthews, I ordered
him to lay down, and I also called the boatswain
aft.

^^ I want to tell you all," said I, '^ that I
have not the least idea what that land is ;
but as it is land, we should see all clear for
bringing up ; for it's fifty to one if we shall
find any human creature on it, more especially
seeing that it's not laid down in
this chart ; and so we must expect no help,
and stand by to be our own pilots. We
must get the anchors over the bows, and
the sooner we turn to the better."

The three of us accordingly went forward,
leaving Johnson at the wheel, to whom I
gave strict orders to keep the vessel to the
exact course she was then steering — not
to swerve a hair's-breadth to leeward of that
course ; for, even as it was, I was not
keeping to windward of the land as I should
have done had I not been anxious to keep

both studding-sails drawing, and to let her
go almost dead before it, in order to save,
all leeway. It was the deuce's own job to
get the anchor over. It took us an hour
to get the starboard anchor ready for use,
and by that time the land was just peeping
over the horizon under the foot of the jib.

I called Nelly and pointed out the land
to her, saying there it was, and she could
judge for herself whether it was land or not.
She was too overcome to speak. She stood
looking at it with a rapt expression in her
eyes, and her lips apart and her bosom
heaving and falling quickly. I knelt down,
the better to steady the glass, and could
clearly perceive some of the lineaments of
the island; on the left hand the summit
of a rock, a ravine or opening of a bay in
the centre, and again, on the right, a short,
low coast, like the side of a crater, with
a forefoot that tended to the westward. It
was clearly an island, and a very small onr,
too, the front of it, as we looked, not more
than one-thud of a mile in extent. Wo
had not yet risen the base of it, at least
fi'om the deck; but it was easily seen, by

UBRAHY ^

aid of the glass, that the highest point was
not much higher than our main-topsail
yard, and therefore we might know, having
regard to what navigators call the " dip,"
or height of our deck above the sea, it could
not be much further than twelve miles
distant, and I had therefore sighted it from
the royal-yard when it was about eighteen
miles away.

There was still a little breeze of wind,
but the heat of the sun was great, and
seemed to be drying it up. The mainsail
had been hauled up to let the foresail draw ;
but that sail was scarcely lifting now, and
the studding sails flapped to every movement
of the brig.

The idea of a calm worried me terribly.
I dreaded, above all things, that a shift
of wind would succeed it ; and it was also
impossible to know what currents we might
have hereabouts, and how they might set
the brig if no wind-power was to be had
to carry her straight. Yet, until the breeze
actually failed, I could not complain.
Every waft of air sneaked us forward
somewhat, and, light as the wind was, the

bubbles were going astern, and this bull,
sunk infco the sea down to within a few
inches of her scuppers, was mysteriously
pushing forwards at not less than two miles
an hour.

We were too anxious to eat our dinner
below ; there was not one of us but had
a superstitious reluctance to lose sight of
that island for longer than a few minutes
at a time. Its springing up under our bows
in the middle of this great ocean, where I
had thought there was no land within four
or five hundred miles of us, was so like a
dream that we durst not let it go, as it
were, with our eyes lest when we looked
again it should be gone indeed.

So Johnson — Matthews being at the helm
brought the dinner on to the deck-house.
A chair was fetched for Nelly, and she ate
from her plate in her lap. The sun poured
down fiercely upon us, but we were so
absorbed in our thoughts and in talk about
the island that, had the sun been as hot
again, we should not have noticed it.

Of all the hours I had passed since I Mind
been aboard the bri: few had been mow

trying, more brimful of breathless suspense,
and of the pain of eager expectation delayed,
than these. The sea was almost perfectly
smooth, but not glassy, scarred with the
lingering wind, and of a deep blue, reflecting
an azure heaven that was unstained by
the lightest fleck of cloud. I looked, time
after time, over the vessel's side into the
blue water, transparent as tinted glass, and
saw the bubbles still floating past, and knew
therefore that we were steadily, however
slowly, approaching the island ; for by this
hour — three o'clock — it lay all compact
upon the sea, and through the glass I
beheld the silver line of breakers at the
edge of the long thin slope of beach that
swept like an arm athwart the central
gulley, and the stone coloured sides of the
rocks on either hand, and the interior of
the island lying in small ridges, the lower
parts in shadow and the tops of them
shining in the sun.

Yet our tedious, slow pace fired me vdth
such impatience that sometimes I scarcely
lead power to contain myself, and the sight
of the burnished horizon, on which, down

in the south, the sunlight lay in a steady
coil of dazzling light, would make me stamp
my foot and pace the deck like a madman.

At four o'clock the land was about five
miles distant ; but by this time the air had
utterly died out. Our canvas hung in
motionless folds, the sea stretched away like
a surface of pale-blue satin, and so calm was
the water that the island lay mirrored in it,
every line unbroken, and the colours without
a burr.

There is no help for it, bo' sun," I exclaimed
; 'ewe must tow her. We can't let
her drift ; and should the wind come ahead,
that island would fade away from us as if it
were smoke."

'' Very well, sir. Bob, jump forward and
pay a line over the bows well in under the
bowsprit. Bill, lend us a hand to lower
this quarter-boat. We'd better take the
brig's boat, Mr. Lee ; she won't pull half so
heavy as the Walder shares''

'ray, lower the starboard boat," I answered
; " but put the other boat's oars into
her. We shall want four oars."

I then told Nelly (who had seized the

wheel the moment the boatswain had called
the man from it) that we were going to
take the brig in tow, and try if we couldn't
fetch the island in that way, and that she
must keep the vessel's bowsprit aiming
straight at the land.

The boat was now alongside ; we all four
tumbled into her, and in a minute we were
ahead of the brig with our tow-rope taut,
and our oars creeping bravely as they ground
against the thole-pins.

Now that we were ahead and away by
some thirty feet from the brig, we were all
greatly struck to notice how terribly deep
she lay. The water was extraordinarily
transparent and pure, and we could see her
coppered forefoot quivering far down with
a greenish sheen, like a bay-leaf with the
Run upon it. We could almost make out
enough of her rim to observe that her lines
were wonderfully fine, whilst her bow was
that of a clipper, her stem as sharp as a
knife, curving outwards with a graceful
sweep as far as the figure-head, that consisted
of a small silver ball poised on a
little shelf, intended, I suppose, to represent
the morning-star.

The boatswain, who pulled stroke (being
our strongest man), launched forth in her
praise, exclaiming that it was a cruel shame
to turn such a hull into a timber vessel ;
that it was like slicing the nose off a man's
face to cut ports in such bows as hers ; and
that, judging by her tops and bulwarks, and
the breadth and thickness of her yards,
and the spread of her shrouds, he would
not mind wavering she had been built by
the French for their navy.

This had been my notion too, but I was
too anxious to observe what way we made
to criticize the vessel we towed. It was
hot and hard work rowing the boat under
such a sun as that which looked down upon
us, and against such a dead weight as the
water-logged brig. But we made her follow
us ; we wrinkled the water around her
bows ; the warp sang out as wee hastened
the bight of it, and then it would jerk the
boat back, and fall slack, to be hauled taut
again by another steady sweep of the oars.

Every man of us knew that it was as
good as a matter of life or death to fetch
the island before any shift of wind came,

and this consideration nerved us into downright
steady work, rising the muscles into
lumps as big a^ eggs on our arms, whilst
we rowed with our teeth set and the perspiration
pouring from our bodies like water.

We held on in this way for about an
hour, with not more than three short spells
of rest between ; and by this time — five
o'clock — the island was not above three and
a half miles distant, though so brilliant was
the atmosphere and so sharply defined
every line and scar of the rocks, that it did
not appear a stone's throw away.

"I'm done! I'm spent I " I exclaimed,
panting heavily, and running the handle
of the oar under my knee, whilst with my
fingers I combed the sweat off my face
and sent a whole shower of it flung overboard.
" I must rest a spell, or I shall drop
like an overdriven horse."

*' Is that dark line astern o' the brig
wind, do you think, Mr. Lee?" asked the
boatswain, standing up in the boat.

I got on to the thwart with my hand on
the boatswain's shoulder, and after looking a
few moments, sung out gladly, "Ay, it's a

breeze coming right clown astern — a whole
capful, by Heaven ! Hurrah, boys ! there's
enough there to run the island down with."

We cast the warp adrift, and in a few
minutes we were on the deck of the brig,
with the boat hanging at the davits. The
breeze coming up astern was as fresh asa
squall, yet there was not a cloud to be
seen. The water was a black-hie, laced
with silver froth and small jagged waves,
as though a strong tide was racing over
shallows ; the form of the wind was marked
upon the sea in a perfect semicircle, a sight
I never saw before, the horns of which where
abeam of the ship on both horizons when
the centre was fully two miles astern of us.
The contrast of the pale-blue, lustrous
surface of the oil-smooth sea, with the
rough, dark line of water where the wind
was coming, was exceedingly fine and
curious.

In a few minutes our sails were full, the
studding-sails swelling out as a boy rounds
his cheeks to whistle, and the half-sunk
hull was swirling through the water again
four times as fast as we could have towed

her. I stationed the boatswain at the
wheel and went forward half-way out upon
the bowsprit to con her. When the
island lay not above a mile ahead, I told
Johnson and Matthews to get the studding-sails
in, and meanwhile I kept a sharp lookout
for rocks ahead.

By this time it could be seen that the
land was a small coral island, no more thana
rock, the highest point of which was not
above thirty feet from the water. It was,
so far as I could discern, almost circular,
with a beetling edge on the starboard side,
that came along in a hilly sweep down into
the sea, going into the water like a beach,
and forming a tolerably wide creek, that
was bounded on the western side by a great
rugged lump of whitish rock, between
fifteen and twenty feet high. I had never
been shipmates with an island of this kind
before, which was just fit to make a pretty
ornament for a gentleman's lake, looking
more like the top of a mountain or some
volcanic creation hove up above the surface
of the water, without an atom of vegetation
anywhere, and of the colour of a meerschaum

pipe that lias been smoked a few times ; bnt
I had heard that alongside most of these
coral deposits you could get no soundings.

However, I kept a bright look-out for
rocks and shoals, being desperately anxious
to anchor the brig without injury to her
bottom. I told Johnson and Matthews to
stand by to bring up, and called to the
boatswain to shift his helm smartly when
I sung out. I then ported the helm in
order to give the tongue of land on the
starboard side a sheer, but as I was pretty
sure the brig would not round the point
in time to save her from plumping into the
big rock on the other side of the creek, we
hauled up the foresail and the men stood by
to let go the fore-topsail, jib, and staysail
halliards.

As we went by the tongue of beach, I
noticed that the creek or estuary ran, for
about a quarter of a mile, straight into the
heart of the island, and then branched with
a slight deviation to the left. The creek
now lay broad on our starboard beam, tho
tongue of beach was abreast of our quarter,
and directly facing the vessel's head was
the rugged face of the great rock.

echard a-port ! " I shouted, and at the
same moment down came the head-sails.
I sprang aft with Johnson to flatten in the
spanker sheet, and Matthews let go the
port main-braces, and the sails being full
the yards swung of themselves. This
manoeuvre brought the whole pressure of
the canvas aft, and the brig's head slowly
came round; but not an instant too soon,
for the end of the jibboom was so close
against the rock opposite that I expected
to hear it grate and see it snap off like a
carrot.

We were now under the lee of the right-hand
stretch of shore ; all aloft the wind
was fresh enough, and whistling through
the rigging, but on deck it was perfectly
calm. Neither the boatswain nor I thought
it advisable to bring up here, as the brig
would be exposed to any sea that might
roll up from the south-west ; so there was
nothing for it but to let go and clew up,
get the boat overboard, and tow the brig as
high up the creek as we might think it
proper to carry her.

I have described this creek — and it is

convenient that I should continue to call it a
creek — as extending about a quarter of a mile
before it deviated to the left ; its breadth at
the entrance was about sixty fathoms, but
it grew narrower as it advanced, until, at
the bend, the two shores were not more than
eighty feet apart. It was extremely strange
to look from side to side and see nothing but
coral rock, with not a blade of grass, no tint
of green, scarcely a shadow, indeed. One
would have thought a great storm had
snapped off a little piece of main headland,
and blown it far out into the Pacific.

We lowered the boat, and leaving Nelly
at the wheel, the four of us took the brig in
tow again. I had the bow oar, so that I
might pause now and again to look over and
see what bottom we were making. There
could be no doubt there was a tide here by
the appearance of the beach and side of the
rocks, which had a worn and bleached look,
like a line of marble inlaid upon the coral,
for about five inches above the existing level
of the water ; and, indeed, I could not help
thinking there was a little tide running up
with us now, for we appeared to be moving

somewhat faster than I behaved we could
tow the brig ; however, I thought I night
be mistaken.

In about a quarter of an hour we had
reached the bend of the creek, and saw that
it extended another forty or fifty fathoms,
meeting an inclined shelf of rock, the colour
of which at the base deceived me into
believing it to be sand. This incline, which
was a gradual slope, and very rugged after it
had ascended half a dozen yards, terminated
in the highest point of the coral deposit.
The breadth of the creek here was between
thirty and forty feet, and the form of it at
the extremity was a perfect oval.

Having reached this bend, I called to
Nelly to put the wheel over to starboard,
motioning with my hand to intimate the
direction in which she should turn the spokes,
and by rowing very hard at the same time
we sufficiently canted the brig's head to
enable the jibboom to clear the starboard
rocks.

'why, look over the side, bo'sun," I
exclaimed, *' what think you of that bottom ?
Is it reef, or sand, or what ? "

^^ You'll get no sand here, sir," said
Matthews, who had cruised among the-south
Sea Islands, and knew something of
their coral formation.

Whatever the bottom was, there it lay,
clear as silver, and looking, indeed, like
silver, in the exquisitely transparent green,
sea-water. But whether it was one or ten
fathoms deep no one could say. -

'* Anyhow, it looks level," remarked the
boatswain. '' I don't see no signs of rocks;
do you. Bill?"

Matthews replied that it appeared to him
to be as flat as a deck ; and, indeed, our
eyes could not deceive us as to the formation
of this bottom, for any asperities would
have been visible.

If it's as hard as it looks, Mr. Lee'*
said the boatswain, " there'll be no use in
letting go the anchor. A harpoon 'ud snap
against it. The best plan will be to moor
the vessel ; and if you'll just look yonder,
sir, you'll see a ledge of rock that would
hold a warp as well as an eye-bolt."

Ay, and there's just such another rock
abreast it," I exclaimed, pointing to the

VOL. III. F

opposite side of the creek. *' They'll hold
lis well enough for the present ; so give
way, my lads, and let's get the hooker
alongside them."

We rowed smartly for ten minutes. I had
my eye on the brig, noticing that she had
grown monstrous heavy on our hands, when
Eobert Johnson sung out, 'i'm dashed if
we're moving, mates ! "

Why, we're aground ! " bawled Matthews.


I flung up my oar, and looked over. The
boat was not aground, but there could be no
question that the brig was ; for the creek
had shoaled so suddenly and greatly that
the boatswain, harpooning the water with
his oar, struck bottom, when at least a third
of the oar was out of water in his hand.

"No matter," said I. "There's no fear
of her bilging, and the bottom looks as flat
as a pancake. So let us turn to now and
get her moored. We should have had to
beach her somehow to come at the leak ; if
there's any tide here, and it looks to me as
if there where, her grounding may save us a
rare job."

Leaving the two men in the boat, the
boatswain and I boarded the brig, and presently
the men had made a couple of warps
fast to the rocks on the port and starboard
bow. We took these lines to the windlass,
and hove them taut, so as to give the brig
another start forwards should any more tide
come to float her. When the men came
aboard we all turned to and furled the sails,
and by the time we had completed this job
the sun had sunk behind the rocks on the
port quarter, and the hull of the brig, and
the water around us, and the bleak granite-like
shore on either hand were all in gloom,
whilst the crimson splendour was still gilding
the summit of the rocks above us, and
sparkling in the upper spars and yards, and
reddening the rigging of our little vessel.

In a few minutes these illuminated lines
faded, and turned black against the sky, in
w^hicli the warm red glare was lingering, and
at last over the whole hemisphere the evening
drew its veil, and the stars blazed out over
our heads and spangled the lipping water
around the brig, and, saving our own voices,
]io other sound was to be heard but the

soiling of the wind sweeping through the
upper rigging from over the rocks on our
left hand, and the creaming of the Housebreakers
all around the windward side of the
island.

We were all utterly exhausted by our
long afternoon's work, and were now beginning
to feel the effects of the job of
towing the brig under a scorching sun.
But we were thirsty and hungry too, so
Nelly went forwards with Matthews to get
supper ready, whilst the rest of us lighted
the lamps and sent the green lantern to
the masthead, for, as I have said, our
royal-yard stood many feet above the
highest point of the rock, and our light
therefore would make a beacon that could
be seen all around the ocean for miles.

** Now, mates," said I when we had
eaten our supper, looking around uj^on
the faces of the men as they sat with their
arms bare, and their* hair tossed, and their
brows glistening in the lamplight, "• thanks
be to Almighty God, we shall be able to
sleep to-night with lighter hearts than we
have known for a good many hours.

Where we are I don't know : thoiigii I
would bet, if I had a sextant and Greenwich
time aboard, you'd find my calculations are
not twenty miles out when I tell you that
our latitude is about 33^ 30° N. and 98° W.
But be this as it may, this island falling
in our road at a time when our look-out
was a desperate bad one, is a thing to fill
our hearts with gratitude ; and taking all
things as they have happened, we have
been watched over, mates, in a manner
few shipwrecked men have known. You'll
agree with me that there's no harm in
speaking these thoughts. God has been
merciful, and we owe Him thanks."

'i've got notion to say again that, Mr.
Lee," said the boatswain. 'rit's all right
enough. There's been some Wonderful
ordering' in this here melancholy business,
80 far as we're concerned, from the
beginning of it down to now, and I for
one am thankful enough."

The same here," nnirmured Matthews.

Johnson gave a terrific yawn.

'ras it will be necessary to keep an
anchor watch," said I — " for I don't mean

to run any risks — shall we claws lots ? Or
put it thus : I'll keep watch till eleven,
the bo'sun till one, Johnson till three, and
Matthews till five:'

This was agreed to. Nelly then served
out a glass of grog to each of us at my
request, and when the men had smoked
a pipe they went to their hunks, and I
and Nelly on to the deck.

The sound of the wind among the rigging,
whilst all on deck and around us was a
breathless calm, startled me for the
moment, and I put my hand on Nelly's
arm and held up my finger to command
silence ; for so human and plaintive was
the murmuring of the wind, that I could
have sworn there were women and children
moaning and wailing on the steep just
beyond us. Inhospitable as the dark and
naked outline of these low and barren rocks
looked, with the stars shining on the very
verge of the rough projections, to me they
where inexpressibly precious ; they relieved
me from the crushing burden of my care ;
they offered us a refuge and a rest ; and
though our future was still so uncertain

as to appear even dark, my heart was
lighter than it had been for days, and in
the silence and gloom of the deck I took
Nelly in my arms, thanking God again and
again for the protection He had vouchsafed
us down to this hour.

It was impossible not to feel a kind of
awe as we looked round upon the rocks
buried in gloom, with a thin" blue scintillation
defining the water-line against the
base of the little cliffs ; and the sound of
the wind was like voices crying aloud in
the silence. How long had this island been
in existence ? Probably ours were the first
human tones which had ever broken the
silence of these desolate rocks. The air
was surprisingly soft and warm, and I sat
me on the deck at Nelly's feet and laid my
head on her lap, and in this way we
remained talking, pausing sometimes to
listen to the moaning overhead, and the
occasional booming of the swell as it struck
the island on its eastward side.

However, I would not suffer Nelly to
remain with me longer than an hour, dear
as her companionship was, and when she

-was gone I had the deck to myself, and then,
indeed, I felt the loneliness of the place
as never loneliness had been felt by me
before. No ; although the sense of solitude
aboard the brig dmdng the first two days
I had passed in her had been great beyond
expression, yet it had not the awe, the
mystery, the wonder, begotten by these
rocks, albeit there were human beings
sleeping close to my hand. I recalled the
various stories I had read of men being
cast away on islands similar to this ; not
the green and fruitful islands of Defoe, with
their cool savannahs, their wild fruits,
turtle, fowl, and crystal springs — but on
naked, hard, desolate rocks like those which
surrounded me, without water and without
herbage; and I remember thinking how
utterly impossible it was for people living
ashore, or even for sailors who had endured
no experiences of the kind, to realize the
full horror of such a situation : to conceive
the anguish of the unsheltered wretch
looking round and round the sea for the
sail that never hove in sight, with no other
sound in his ears than the moan and

thunder of the waters, thinking of the
home he was never more to behold, and
with intolerable bitterness of the hundreds
of ships sailing to right and left of him
leagues beyond the horizon, any one of
which he might believe in his anguish
would come to his rescue if his condition
were but known.

But, meanwhile, what was our condition ?
what injury had the brig received ? should
we be able to repair her ? was some unforeseen
calamity to frustrate our hose of
reaching inhabited land by the agency of
this brig ?

As I glanced up at the green lantern,
a dismay I could not control visited me
when I reflected upon the immensity of
the ocean in which we lay wrecked, and
how scarce were ships in these latitudes.
Had we been cast away further north or
east, every day would probably have
brought some sail in sight upon the
horizon ; but here we were out of the
track of every trader to any part of the
world, aimless an adverse wind should bring
some vessel bound from Australia to trio

western American coast within range of
us, or unless we had the good fortune to be
discovered by some South Seaman cruising
in these latitudes, or bound for some
Chilian port.

I aroused the boatswain at eleven o'clock,
feeling intensely wearied. We exchanged
a few words, and I then tumbled into my
bunk and was sound asleep in a minute.

I was awakened by some one tugging at
my arm. I opened my eyes, and they rested
on the face of Matthews, who held the cabin
lamp. I did not recognize him at once,,
for the light was strong in my eyes, and
what with my being half asleep and half
blinded, and his face looking like a drowned
man's in the mystifying glare, I was both
bewildered and alarmed, and blinked at him
like an owl at a ghost.

What increased my puzzlement, too, was
that either he or the deck was aslope : he
leaned towards me as though he were about
to topple nose foremost into my bunk.

''I want you to come on deck, sir," said
he. ''I want you to listen to something."

'why, what's the matter, Matthews?

Has my watch come round again ? I haven't
been tinned in ten minutes, have I ? "

<< Why, yes, you have, sir. It's half-past
four, and daylight's breaking'. But please
to step on deck — there's something for you
to hear, sir."

Being by this time wide awake, I instantly
jumped out of my bunk, but no sooner did
I touch the deck than I fetched away, and
had to grab hold of Matthews to bring myself
up. The deck, indeed was almost as
though the brig lay over to a stiff breeze.

^aiillo!" I ejaculated, ^' the water's left
us dry, has it ? Why, Matthews, this is
the best thing that could happen to us, my
man." And I hurried out of the berth, leaving
the boatswain snoring at the top of his nose.

The grey of the dawn was in the sky, but
between the rocks and in the creek it was
as black as pitch. The brig lay on lier port
broadside with a list that made the deck by
no means easy walking. The first thing I
heard was the sound of water gushing like a
pump. The noise was forward. I took the
lamp from Matthews, and picking my way
along the deck, I arrived at the starboard

bow and held the lamp over. I could see
nothing, but the gushing of the water was
like a cascade. I bent on the end of a line
to the ring of the lamp and slung the light
over the side, and when I had lowered it to
within a foot of the metal sheathing, the
light suddenly sparkled in a jet of water that
was pumping out of the brig's side as though
it were being squirted through a force-pipe.

'there we have the leak, Matthews ! " I
shouted ; '^ and with the blessing of Heaven
we'll put a stopper on that same before
we're many hours older, that will make a
cork of this hooker."

I drew up the lamp and listened to hear
if any more water spurted from other parts
of the hull. To starboard the only jet was
the one that was making itself heard ; but
to port the vessel lay on her bilge so as to
bring the water in the creek half-way up
her chain-plates, and it was therefore impossible
to tell whether she had any leaks
in her below that line on that side.

However, I was overjoyed to find that we
had a tide-way here ; for, as from the build
nd strength of the brig I could not readily

bring my mind to believe that lie had
sprung a leak below her copper sheathing,
it was clear fi'om the fall of the water that
had already taken place — and I was sure
the ebb was not done yet — that enough of
the hull would be left exposed to enable us
to get at any leak above her copper and
probably for some depth below it.

My spirits were now all on fi-re again, and
telling Matthews to go and rouse up the
boatswain and Johnson, I stood waiting
impatiently for the growing dawn to diffuse
sufficient light to give us a clear view
around.

By the time the others had joined me the
daylight lay broad upon the sky, and the
first thing I noticed was that the ebb had
left a great length of the head of the creek
dry, so that the water now terminated at a
point not above twelve feet forward of our
jibboom. All the dry part was as smooth
and pale as marble, spoon-shaped, and like
the cement at the bottom of a fountain.
Indeed, my belief was, and still is, that the
bed of this creek had been wrought by a
great discharge of lava and smoothed by the

action of the sea ; for the whole formation
of the island indicated a volcanic origin, as
though a portion of coral deposit resting
upon a submarine volcano had been hove
to the surface of the sea and split into the
rocks as they now lay by the ejection of
lava through them.

The water was gushing out of the bow of
the brig about two inches above the copper,
a foot abaft the starboard bathed, supposing
you drew a line straight down. The boatswain
had jumped into the boat alongside,
and was now examining the leak.

'swell," said I to him, ^^ what do you
make of it?"

^*Why, sir," he answered, 'rit's nothing
more than a butt started. We shall be able
to set that right in a very short time."

I told him to drop the boat a little
astern, and I got into her, and saw that the
leak was caused by the starting of the end of
a plank that stood out and left a space big
enough for a man's fist to go in. We ran
our eyes carefully along the rest of the
exposed surface of the hull, but no water
issued from any other part of it.

^' She looks tight enough this side, Mr.
Lee," said the boatswain, as we lay abreast
of the vessel's rudder. ^' Her copper looks
wonderfully new, and clean too. She hasn't
been very long metalled. Is there any leak
below the water on this side, I wonder?
And how is she to port ? "

*^ There is only one way of finding that
out," I answered; ^'we must let the water
drain out of her as far as her list will suffer
it to go and then stop the leak. We shall
have the full flood at about-Byb o'clock this
evening. She will then float, and when
she's upright we'll sound the well, and that
will tell the tale. "

We hauled the boat slowly around the
port side of the vessel, narrowly examining
the stern-port and rudder, and the frame of
the brig under the counter ; but not a drop
of water came from any exposed portion of
her this side. The sun had risen, and the
brig's spars from the tops up were all
glittering in the brilliant silver light. The
water in the creek reflected the bright azure
overhead, and though there was not less
than nine feet of it where our boat was, the

bottom lay perfectly visible and clear, and
was as smooth here as it was higher up, but
shelving fast, about two feet in ten, and
every part of the brig being aground, her
nose was in consequence cocked right up
just as she would have looked had she been
run head foremost on to a beach.

*sit's a pity this creek ain't likely to run
himself clean dry," said the boatswain. '' It
'ud give us a good chance to overhaul her
bottom fore and aft. Didn't I say she was
a handsome boat, sir ? Her planks might
have come out of a navy yard. x\nd look at
her fastenings — copper everywhere ! and if
the water don't deceive the eye, her bottom's
as fine as a yacht's. I'll tell you what it is,
Mr. Lee : the Morning Star was no more
intended for a timber vessel than I was ;
and to see such a hull as this with bow-ports
is enough to set a parson cussing."

There was no use in attempting to meddle
with the leak until the vessel had done
draining. Indeed, it would not have
answered our purpose to touch it before
that time, for we had the whole day
before us, and seven or eight hours clear

before the flood made ; besides, the flowing
of the water through the started butt (unless
indeed the brig was leaky in other places)
would go far to empty her without labour
on our part.

I jumped on board again and looked
through the scuttle into the forecastle. Inconsequence
of her list and her drop aft, the
forecastle was half empty of water. I told
Johnson to bring me the cabin lamp, and I
went down the forecastle steps until my foot
was level with the water, and, holding up
the lamp, I took a look round. There were
a couple of hammocks swinging close against
the deck, sodden and brown; there were
also six bunks, three of a side, but they were
empty — as, indeed, I might have guessed, for
the water would have floated everything out
of them. The water lay black at my feet
and gurgled with an ugly sound, and the
lamphglit gleamed with a ghastly radiance
in it. Except the bunks and the hammocks
nothing was to be seen. A feeling of awe
and even of horror came over me as I stood
looking into this dark hole. The hammocks,
were like relics of human existence, and the

VOL. m. a

glimmer of them made me shudder ; the
place was as cold as the bottom of a well. I
was glad to get out of it into the daylight,
and to breathe the warm, sweet morning air.

I reckoned that the leak would not take
very long draining, because the inclined
posture of the brig would run the water
away from the bows ; and, indeed, I did not
suppose there would be overmuch water in
the whole hull either, for she was full of
timber, and it did not leave much space for
her to fill. I therefore told Johnson to get
the galley fire lighted, so that we might have
breakfast at once, as I meant to make a long-day
; and whilst this was doing, the rest of
us set to work to saw some planks for a short
stage to drop over the vessel's side in order
to get at the leak, as the list of the vessel
raised the butt out of our reach from the
boat.

Whilst we were at this job Nelly came
out of the cabin, looking alarmed to find the
vessel all on one side, as she expressed it. I
explained to her how this had come about,
and what a mercy it was that it should be
so, as it was not possible to guess how we

should have been able to come at the leak
in any other way. It did me good to seethe
bright, happy light in my darling's eyes
as she looked around. The mere presence
of land was a delight to her, after our long
interminable hours of sea and sky ; for, with
the exception of the Falklands, not a coast
shadow had greeted our sight since the hour
when the shore of the distant Isle of Wight
had melted into the gloom of the English
evening. Nor was this little island, bare and
bleak as it was, and rendered even awful by
the mystery of its tremendous ocean solitude,
without a charm of its own in the hearty
sunshine that was now slanting down upon
the deck ; for, besides the extreme delicacy
of its coral grain, there was a certain fantasticalness
in the irregularity of its little
summits, its tiny declivities, the lilliputian
ravines and fissures here and there, and iu
the sweep of the creek, the water of wliicli,
viewed from the deck, was white and shining-like
quicksilver as it crept round the bend
into the ocean, of which we could just catch
a glimpse, and which ran up in a streak of
dehcatc blue into the deeper blue of the sky.

When our morning meal was over, I went
forward to see if the leek still drained, and
found it gushing out with great force still,
and splashing noisily into the water alongside.


Wishing to see what sort of hold the rocks
gave our warps, and being also anxious to
view the island, I hauled the boat to the
port gangway, and, calling Nelly, helped
her into it, and shoved the boat on to the
beach at the end of the creek, leaving the
men at work on the construction of the
stage. I jumped out and gave my hand to
Xelly, and she sprang like a fawn, her wide
hat flapping, and a gay laugh breaking from
]her as her little feet twinkled down upon
the beach.

*' Oh, Will ! " she cried, as she looked at
the shelving beach running up to the rocks,
'^ what a place for a picnic ! "

This set me laughing like a fool. The very
word 'picnic " conjured up such ideas, such
contrasts ! Young dandies, old mammas,
gills flirting, old fogies thinking of the game
]pies and wine, music and dancing, and a gay
ride home by moonlit ; and then our

shipwreck, this lonely island, hundreds of
miles out in the greatest ocean in the worhl,
the brig full of water, our very existence
threatened by tremendous risks still ! Why,
just as in certain moods a comical notion
comes to you out of a great grief and sets
you grinning — though God knows you would
rather cry — so my sweetheart's exclamation
brought the tears to my eyes ; "but there was
so much sadness mixed with my mirth, that
I don't know which passion had most right
to the tears.

As you may believe, there was not much
to be seen in this island ; the whole circumference
of it was not above one and three-quarter
miles. The north-east side was a
mere crust, so that I should have believed
a strong sea would sweep all that part of it
away. This was the highest point of it, and
we got upon the top and looked around.
But it was a ridiculously little height after
all, for yonder was the masthead of the brig
towering high above us, and it looked only
a jump to the sea.

It was a bright morning, with a smart
breeze blowing from the north-east. For

leagues and leagues the waters where all
a-tremble, tossing, with sharp flashes of
light, and of a pale and uniform blue, save
Moliere here and there the cloud-shadows lay
in slate coloured patches. There were no
breakers at our feet, for on this side of the
island, at all events, the rocks went sheer
down into the water, for how many fathoms
the imagination could not conjecture, and
the water was as blue at the base of the
cliff as it was five miles out ; but at intervals
the swell woiild strike the line of rock and,
without breaking, heave to a height of
twelve to fourteen feet up it in a huge
sparkling volume of water, which, as it
sank, left the rocks gushing like cascades
and streaming with froth that looked like
falls of snow. Seeing how high this swell
rose in fair weather such as we were now
having, I made no doubt this island was
swept in a storm as effectually as our brig
had been ; nor can I say that I liked the
look of the sun that morning. It was a
very hot sun, yet there was a mistiness in
its light that threatened wind.

However, I found the rocks to which our

warps were attached more solid than any
fixings we should have been able to contrive,
for there was no soil into which we
could have driven stakes ; and there being
no more to see on the island, I put Nelly
into the boat and shoved alongside the brig.

They had completed the stage, and it lay
ready to fling over the side when the leak
was done draining. The wafcef in the creek
was still ebbing, but very slowly now, and
not above an inch and a quarter had fallen
since daybreak. This being noticed, the
boatswain made another tour of the brigand
reported that he could find no more
leaks. But a good deal of the vessel, more
especially aft, was under water, and therefore
it would be impossible to say whether
her bottom was sound or not until the leak
forward was stopped and she was afloat.

As the masts of the vessel stood considerably
above the island, and would bring
more strain upon the warps than was desirable
should a gale of wind come, I ordered
Johnson and Matthews aloft to send down
the royal and top-gallant yards. This job
made a hole in the morning, and by the

time the yards were stowed on deck the
pressure of the water from the leak had
greatly decreased, and it was now but a
thin rill. Fearing that this might go on
for a long while yet, we manned the pumps,
and in a few minutes had the lee quarterdeck
afloat and the water gushing out of
the scupper-holes in brawling streams.

After pumping for half an hour, we found
the water just oozing from the leak. We
accordingly set to again, and presently the
leak had stopped draining. It was now
hard upon noon, but, hungry and tired as
we were, we were none of us disposed to
knock off until we had securely stopped
the leak. This was a matter of no great
difficulty. We got the stage over the side,
and the boatswain and I went on to it
armed with a heavy hammer and some
spikes half as long as our arm, of which
there lay a whole parcel in the carpenter's
chest. The end of the plank looked to
have been wrenched from the timber, or
rather driven from its fastenings, by a blow
inside; otherwise it was perfectly sound,
and the thickness and strength of it gave

US a good idea of the workmanship of the
hull.

With a few swinging blows the boatswain
drove the spikes through the plank end,
and the butt went into its place. This
being done to my satisfaction, I scrambled
on deck, and despatched Johnson to the
boatswain with some oakum and a calking-iron,
all which things I found' in the carpenter's
berth. Nothing now remained but
to pitch the seams ; but there was no pitch
on deck, and we would have to wait until
the water was out of the hull to look for
such stuff in the fore-peak. The ring of
the calking-iron under the blows of the
mallet was a pleasant sound. The boatswain
was a thorough practical seaman,
who knew every part of a slip as a watchmaker
knows the works of a watch ; and
he handled the leak as nimbly and well as
any expert ship's carpenter would.

By one o'clock he had done the calking,
and paid the seams with tar as a make-shift
until he could pitch them, and then came
on deck, red and hot with his labour, and
ready for his dinner, as indeed we all were.

So now, as far as we could dare imagine,
the hull of the brig was tight, and there was
nothing more to be done, so far as that part
of the work was concerned, but to get the
water out of her, wait until she was on a
level keel, sound the well, and then, as the
tide made, see if there were any more leaks.

We made despatch with our dinner, and
though it was both my policy and my duty
to maintain a discipline among my little
crew, T told them I should not object to
their lighting their pipes and smoking
Whilst they worked, as time was precious,
and I could not afford them a half-hour for
an idle sprawl and smoke. I did not like
the look of the sky, and there was a moaning
out at sea and a hollowness in the sound of
the swell as it rose and sank against the
outer rocks that, I thought, presaged wind.
From every quarter but the south-west the
hull of the brig would be protected from
the seas ; but the mouth of the creek opened
in that quarter, and if a gale sprang up
in that direction, it might roll in a nasty
sea and perhaps strand and bilge the brig.

Our immediate duty, therefore, was to set

warps over either quarter ; but it was the
devil's own job to contrive fixtures to make
the ends fast ashore. There was no bottom
for an anchor to grip, and a whole day
would have been spent in conveying ashore
one of the only two big anchors we could
get at. However, in the end, and after
a consultation, we managed it in this way :
we swayed up and lowered into the water
a couple of light spare booms, which we
landed, one on either shore ; we jammed
these booms behind the edge of some
rocks, and lashed them as securely as we
could ; we then made the ends of the
warps fast to these booms, which were
of tough upland spruce, and strong enough
to heave the rocks out before they parted,
and took the inboard ends to the quarterdeck
capstan and hove taut.

This work brought us to three o'clock
in the afternoon, and the tide was making
fast. The brig being moored as securely
as we could make her, with warps over the
bows and quarters, we turned to and
manned the pumps afresh, and pumped for
an hour, when the flood having set her on

a level keel, thoiigli she was not yet afloat
forward, I sounded the well, and made eight
feet of water in the hold. The creek was
filling fast enough to settle the question
of the hull's soundness in half an hour, and
we took the opportunity of the interval to
get tea, or supper as the last meal is
called at sea. But, as may be supposed, we
were terribly anxious ; for it came to this :
if the hull made water now that the leak
was stopped, it would be clear that the
leak was below the lowest point left exposed
by the ebb tide, and we might find
the utmost difficulty in coming at it, should
we ever succeed in coming at it at all.

I did not stay above five minutes at
table, and then went on deck and leaned
over the vessel's side to watch the water
rising. I was soon joined b}' Xelly, to
whom I explained my hopes and fears, and
we stood looking at the base of the opposite
rocks, up which the water was creeping
inch by inch. By this time the brig ought
to be afloat forward ; but it was hard to
tell : there Alas not enough wind aloft to
move her, and besides, her warps would

keep her steady. So, to ascertain if she
was off the ground, I told Johnson to ease
away the bow-warps, and the rest of us ran
the capstan round, and the slack coming
in, we saw in a moment that she was
afloat.

She was still very deep, as so small a
vessel must needs be with eight foot of water
in her, but in comparison with her depth
when afloat before, it was like looking down
a hill to glance over her side. We raised
a cheer that rattled among the rocks when
we found she was afloat ; and sprang to
the pumps again, and pumped with all our
strength for half an hour, and by this time
the creek was full.

I sounded the well with a beating heart,
and pulled out the rod, Nelly and the men
standing round, and made the vater five
feet.

When I said this the poor fellows gave
another ringing cheer, for now we might
be sure there was no more water coming
into the brig. Our delight was beyond expression.
We were shipwrecked no longer,
for with this tiolit brie: of two hundred tons

we were our own masters, and could sail
round the world if we chose, and for safety
she was as good as a thousand-ton ship.
The island no longer wore the character of
a desolate, naked rock ; it was rather a
harbour of refuge, a little haven for ships
to put into that needed repairs. I was so
overjoyed that I could scarcely restrain
myself from hugging Nelly to my heart ;
as it was, we all of us shook hands, and
such was Johnson's transport chat what
must the man do but break into a regular
sailor's shuffle, and toe and heel the deck
with his naked feet until the slapping of
the planks was like to set the other two
imitating him.

I was resolved that we should all of us
have a good night's rest, for what with"
pumping, and sending the yards down, and
getting the booms ashore, and other jobs,
the day's work had been a heavy one,
and for this reason I determined to let the
water remain in the brig that night and
pump her out next morning.

Before knocking off we hove in the stewards
another three fathoms, slacking the

lines forward, of course, to that extent, as
I considered that we were moored too close
to the head of the creek should a sours
set in. I had also a mind to strike
the top-gallant mast, but the weary air of
the men discouraged me, and so I thought
I would let it alone.

I had been too busy all this while to
take particular notice of the weather, but
happening to raise my eyes and observe the
peculiar watery redness of the sky as it lay
with the flush of the sunset upon it, I
went up the rigging to have a view of the
sea over the rocks, and going as high as the
cross-trees I saw an angry sunset, the
colour of the sky all around the clouds
being a brick-red, the clouds themselves
very sullen and dark, and rounded underneath,
belly wise, as though they held more
than they could sustain, and only the edges
next the sun illuminated. There was very
little wind, but the sea was heaving with
a confused running, and the impression
conveyed was that of two swells, one
coming from the westward and one from
the north-east, where what little air there

was still hung. The heave of the sea was
heavy around the island, and as I watched,
the swell would run over the arm or reef
that projected to the south-west and formed
the southern boundary of the creek, in a
coil of green water, the western extremity
of which flashed with the redness of blood
in the sunset, and sometimes as it poured
it broke into foam and filled half the mouth
of the creek with a surface of dazzling white
froth, so that, at the distance at which
I surveyed it, the water that way, when
the swell burst over the reef and broke in
foam, looked as though a terrific current
was racing there, or that a water spout was
forming.

These frequent bursting of froth and
the thunder of the swell to the east and
west of the island, and the sullen fierce
crimson of the sunset, and the calmness
in the air, with the mighty deep heaving
restlessly, formed an impressive scene of
gloomy grandeur.

CHAPTEK III.

THE DEATH OF THE BOATSWAIN.

I CAME down from aloft and told the boatswain
we should have some dirty weather
before the morning, and as there was a
little daylight left we had another good
look at the warps, and, being satisfied, went
about to freshen ourselves up with a wash
down.

^' Johnson was skin' me just now, sir,"
said Sinnet, as he rubbed himself dry,
*^ whether I thought you'd object to their
having a little jollification this evening
before turning in. You know what sailors
are, Mr. Lee ? They want their song and
their yarn, and a smoke, and wdiat they
calls ashore a spell o' free and easy."

So far from objecting, I fell into the
scheme at once : we had escaped a dreadful
peril, the brig was afloat, wc had all worked

VOL. HI. u

desperately hard, and why should not we
celebrate onr good fortune by a song ? So
I called to the men and told them that I
should not only be glad to listen to a song
from them, but to give them a song myself,
but on condition that I served out the grog,
and that no man asked for more than I
chose to give him.

This was agreed to, and the cabin being
hot, wee lashed the royal and top-gallant
yards together, slung them from the gaff,
opened the sails and made an awning of them
over the top of the deck-house ; we then
brought up some chairs, a bottle of grog, a
box of cigars, and made the cabin lamp fast
to the yards over our heads. I contrived -
this arrangement for Nelly's sake. I. wished
her to be present, as I knew the men would
value her company ; and besides, they were
all three steady men and true sailors, and
there was nothing to fear from them in the
way of language" so long as I remained
skipper of the bottle ; but she could not
have endured the tobacco smoke in the
cabin.

So there we were with the sails over our

heads and the lamp shining down upon us ;
and I believe a more picturesque interior
than this was never illuminated, not to mention
the extraordinary contrast of our revelry
with the reality of our situation alone on a
little island almost in the middle of the
Pacific ; for we were all as smart as a bucket
of salt-water can make, a man. Moreover,
the seamen had found an old hair-brush
knocking about in the carpenter's berth,
and had plied it to some purpose ; the boatswain
wore the clothes he had taken from
the mate's chest, had brushed his whiskers
out, and with his hair soaped over his forehead,
his bronzed face, lively eyes, bare
throat and great hairy hands, looked the
model of a burly English salt — one never to
shirk work, a man to meet danger with a
wooden face, a sea-jockey, a man to put
yom* whole faith in. On either side of him
sat his mates. Bob and Bill, vigorous, hearty
men, sailors to the very incurring of their
toes, their skins glistening like leather, their
hands lolling by their sides, with their
fingers curled up as though they still grasped
a rope.

To look from them to Nelly was to appreciate
the amazing lumps nature makes in
her creations. The light, kind smile on her
sweet lips showed me that she found something
humorous in her situation ; she often
glanced at me, with her soft grey eyes full of
meaning. And did I wish her away ? Would
I have preferred to think of her as safe at
home at Burmarsh ? I dare not answer yes.
As a sailor's sweetheart she was sharing her
lover's perils, meeting sailors and living T^ith
them, watching the night deep in all its
moods, learning its tenderness and fury, its
fascination and its terror. But still, to find
her here, to find her a partaker of my rough
and stern experiences, never more brave
than in the hour of supreme peril, because
she was with me, impelled by a love whose
resolution no danger could make her regret,
to follow me and share with me whatever
fate might befall, stirred my heart to the
quick. Was not her devotion great enough
to make any man proud ?

We were met for a festive purpose, but we
were slow to come at it ; for though the men
would have felt Nelly's absence, her presence

made them shy. At last she asked Sinnet
to sing a song. He coughed and moved
uneasily in his chair, and said that he was
afeared his singing days was over. Time was
when he could heat most men at hollering,
hut his voice had grown husky since them
days ; and Lord ! what should he sing
about ? He only knew sailors' songs.

Well, a sailor's song would do ; indeed,
nothing hut a sailor's song would do ; and
so, after balancing himself, and stretching-out
his legs as though he were settling down
to an oar, and looking with a wandering eye
first at Bob, and then at Bill, and then at
Nelly, he opened his mouth and made a
start. When he got to the end of the first
verse, he flourished his hand and shouted
^' Chorus ! " and though neither Nelly nor I
had the air (the seamen knew it perfectly
well) we joined in, and the whole length of
the brig and the little island rang to our
voices, the thunder of the swell coming in
by way of accompaniment.

We were all supposed to be desperately
tired, and perhaps we were ; but the grog
and the tobacco and the singing woke us up,

and I very much doubt if ever before that
time five castaway persons joined in any
sort of chorus with half the spirit that we
exhibited.

All four of us men sang, and every man
took care that his song had a chorus, otherwise
it would have been thought but a very
poor entertainment ; and then we asked
Nelly for a song. Without the least hesitation
she sang a little ballad about a rose,
whose place, when it faded, was taken by a
bud. It took me away to Burmarsh to hear
her. I had heard her sing that song before,
and it brought up the lavender scented
drawing-room, the garden outside all bloom
with flowers, my feelings as I listened, the
tinkling of the piano, Phoebe's face, and a
little kitten that got foul of my legs all the
time the song was going. Her voice had a
quiver in it just before she ended; I daresay
her thoughts were like mine, hundreds
of leagues away.

Of course the song was not much to the
men's tastes; Jack's heart doesn't lean
towards roses ; but they clapped their hands
and stamped their feet when she had doue

and drank lier liealtli with a great flourish.
of pannikins, every man making a napkin of
his arm when the draught was down, and
smiling and nodding as though approval
were a long soh and not to he discharged
in a harry.

In this way an hour passed, and Sinnet
was in the middle of a long yarn, full of
^' says I's " and " says he's," when a peculiar
sound struck my ears, and I motioned silence.

'^ Blowed if it ain't like a kettle boiling'
over," exclaimed Matthews, and this as well
expressed the sound as words could put it.

I walked a few steps clear of the temporary
awning, and, looking up, found that it was
an intensely dark night, not a star to be
seen, and not a breath of air.

*' What the deuce can that noise be ? " I
said to the boatswain, who had followed me.

He bent his ear, and after listening
answered, ^'It's either a hurricane coming
up the sea, or else there's a tremendous fall
o' rain somewheres near."

'' Johnson, Matthews ! " I shouted, ^*get
these sails down before they're blown
away." And having sent Nelly below, I

was passing the chairs over to the boatswain,
when, as I thought, it began to rain.

'' Where's the wind ? " shouted the boatswain.
"Do you taste this, sir? it's salt''
Scarcely had he said this when there broke
out overhead a wild and terrific roaring,
and looking up I could distinctly perceive
columns of white foam or spray hurled over
the island, and turning the whole black
surface of the sky into a pale glimmering
ash-colour, as though a heavy fall of snow
were sweeping over us horizontally. The
hurricane came right out of the west, and
our protection, therefore, was the low Ime
of rock that formed the western boundary
of the creek, and that shored it to the bend,
almost abreast of which we now lay, having
slackened our bow-ropes, as I explained.

Although not above half our masthead
and only a small portion of the fore-top-mast
were exposed above the rock, yet, in
spite of our having sent the two yards
down, and there being no other smface
offered than the bare poles, the furious wind
catching these heeled the brig two or three
streaks over as though a tackle had been

got up aloft, and was being bowed down
on the starboard shore. I wanted no more
remarkable illustration of the tremendous
force of this hurricane; it seemed an incredible
thing. No man could have got me
to believe it had I not viewed it myself, for
it seemed impossible that a hull with seven
foot of water in her could be heeled over by
a gale striking so small an exposed surface
as half her topmast, and but one top-gallant
and royal mast with the yards down. Yet,
as I have said, had the vessel been heeled
over by a tackle from the masthead, she
could not have lain more steadily aslant ;
and the fact was made all the more astounding
to our senses by the rocks so sheltering
the deck, that whilst overhead the bellowing
was hideous and shocking to hear, and the
spray whirling in dense clouds, and our
exposed rigging shrieking like tortured
women, the air below circled only in short
draughts, and all the wet that fell was the
spray rebounding from the summit of the
rocks on our right.

This was a sudden breaking up of our
little festivity with a vengeance. I cannot

express how miicli I regretted now not
having sent down the top-gallant mast, but
it was too dark to undertake the job at this
time ; and so far from being able to work up
aloft, I doubt if any man would have been
able to hold on, for the roaring of the wind
Alas so prodigious, and its velocity so tremendous,
that over and over again I would
cast my eyes in the direction of the great
lump of rock on the port quarter, expecting
to hear it bowled over into the middle of
the creek.

The first thing we did was to brace the
yards so as to point them to the wind ; and
then I told the boatswain that at all hazards
we must get a warp over the port beam, as
I was sure that, unless this hurricane
dropped suddenly, we should have the seas
breaking in mountains over the weather
rocks, which were but fifteen feet high, and
should the port bow or quarter rope go, the
vessel would go to pieces on the lee shore.

This was a job easy to suggest but
horribly hard to accomplish, chiefly because
it was so dark that we could not see the
deck on which we trod, nor even the outlines

of each other's figures, and also
because we should have to get another
boom ashore, for even should we succeed
in finding a rock fit to bend the warp to, we
dare not hazard thq chafe of the edges upon
the hemp.

However, there was no time for debating,
for we all of us knew that every moment
was raising a sea that must presently sweep
the vv^eather shore, and then we should not
be able to work at all. So, taking the cabin
lamp and the green lantern forward, we
turned to with desperate energy, and in
seven minutes we succeeded in swaying up
and lowering a stout boom in the water;
we then brought the boat alongside, and
tumbled into her, taking the lanterns with
us, and towed the spar to the shore that
lay abreast of the brig ; and by dint of
lifting and shoving and hauling, we got the
boom jammed behind some rocks and lashed
it to them.

All this time the hurricane was raging
over our heads, and the spray was falling in
perfect showers in consequence of the rising
sea, and we could hear the heavy breakers

snarling and snapping and booming ferociously
against the other side of the rocks,
at the lee base of which we were toiling,
while the mingled green and white lights
of the lanterns flashed in my hands on the
faces and fingers of the men as they kneeled
upon the spar, hauling taut the ropes' ends
which bound it to the rocks, and threw a
faint unearthly light around us, and glimmered
on the water that lay calm at our
feet, and was only just blurred by the
dropping of the spray, and the fierce small
rushing of draughts of wind.

Having made fast the end of three stout
lines to this boom, we got into the boat
and were just shoving off, when a whole
sheet of water blew over the head of the
rocks, flying clean above us, and striking
the side and deck of the brig a blow that
echoed like the report of a gun. We goton
board as fast as ever we could, and
hoisted up the boat, and then thoroughly
overhauled the brig, lashing everything that
Alas likely to be washed away, hauling taut
all the running gear, and snugging the
vessel in every practicable way. We had

another look at the warps, and finding them
all secure, we rigged up a square of canvas
in the main-rigging to serve the man on
watch as a shelter against the seas flying-over
into the creek ; and there being nothing
more to do, I told the men to go below and
turn in all standing, that is, to lie down in
their clothes, ready for the first call. It
was my intention to keep watch, I told
them ; and, indeed, this was no hardship,
for I should have remained on deck under
any circumstances, being a great deal too
anxious to turn in.

The night was so intensely black that it
was enough to scare a man to look u^. It
was like being in a cellar. If it had not
been for the haze of the light in the cabin,
there would have been nothing for the eye
to rest upon. This was bad enough, but
the hooting of the hurricane, and the
bellowing of the rising surges pouring over
one another, made the darkness awful. I
would catch myself wound up into a high
pitch of nervous expectation, as if something
wild and terrible was about to happen
though I could not imagine what.

The waves were beginning to fiy over the
rocks on the left-hand side in earnest. There
was nothing to be seen, but every few
minutes a whole ocean of water would
plump alongside and aboard, hitting the
decks a thump fit to beat them in, whilst
the water for twenty fathoms forward and
abaft the brig would flash up in fire under
the tremendous downpour, and instantly be
swallowed up in the universal darkness ; and
whilst the lower portions of the seas which
dashed over the island dropped like lead in
the calm of the creek, the rest of them
which was grasped by the wind hissed with
a sound that rose above the thunder of the
gale as they were hurled twenty and thirty
feet high, and lashed and thrashed the exposed
part of our masts and rigging as
though a giant were flogging them with a
cat, the tails of which were made of hawsers.

I now noticed that the brig was beginning
to pitch a little. This was to have been
expected, for the send of the heavy sea outside
was sure to run up the creek ; but
though it was to have been expected, I say,
yet I had overlooked it, and the idea that as

the tide ran out the waves might be strong
enough to lift and drop the brig on to the
hard bottom of the creek in a manner to
break her back or to burst her open,
frightened me mightily.

And now I own I did not know what todo.
If I called up the men and warped the
vessel by her bowlines up the creek until
she took the ground, how could I be sure
that the next flood would bring up water
enough to float her ? A submarine disturbance
might leave half the creek dry, or a
shift of wind might modify the tide, and then
here we should be with our vessel aground,
and no means of floating her. But, on the
other hand, if I let her lie where she was,
to be tossed upon the reflex of the seas
outside, she might stave her bottom in.

I resolved to confer with the boatswain,
and had scarcely reached the cabin, when
such an immense body of water came roaring
over the shore right on to the vessel, that I
thought for a moment a rock had come aboard
of us. The brig quivered fore and aft under
the shock, and had I not instantly shut the
deck-house door the cabin would have been

filled. This was as bad as being at sea ;
indeed, more weight of water flooded ns
than we should have got outside ; for the
height of the rocks over which the seas were
bursting was fifteen feet, and I dare say the
gale carried the water ten feet higher, so
that what fell on the brig dropped from a
height of twenty-five feet. It was enough
to split the decks open and to kill a bullock
had it struck it.

Either the boatswain heard me shut the
door or was coming out to me at that moment,
for he stepped forth from his berths
shaking his head with a grave face. He said
he could not sleep, and that the sound of the
water falling like a dozen thunderbolts onto
the deck was enough to turn his hair
grey. He had hoped we should have lain
snug in that creek, but who could have
guessed the water would fly over the island
in that way ?

I answered that I did not think the water
that fell aboard our worst danger ; the brig
was heaving on a bit of a sea in the creek
and the motion not only threatened our
warps, but, as the tide shoaled, the water

bade fair to drop the brig ou the bard bottom
and break her back. I gave him my ideas
of the risk of leaving her where she was,
and also the risk of warping her up the
creek so that the tide might leave her
stranded. But he strongly objected to the
latter alternative, and said that if we did
anything at all it would be best to slacken
away forwards and let her drop astern into
deeper water.

To this I replied, that if we dropped the
brig astern we should be obliged to let the
beam-warp run away at an angle which
would greatly diminish its holding power.
However, before we acted I resolved to
take soundings, and having noticed a smart;
lead in the carpenter's chest, I entered the
berth and found Johnson asleep on the
tool-chest, and had to arouse him before I
could open the lid. He and his mate
belonged to an order of sailors who could"
sleep in the car of a balloon in the centre of
a thunderstorm ; but just as I had got simon
to his legs a dozen tons of water came
crashing down on the deck-house : this made
him wide awake in a moment, for the sound

VOL. III. I

was enough to bring a dead man out of a
vault, and lie wanted to know if we had
drifted out to sea.

I briefly explained our position, and finding
nothing to answer for a lead-line, and
knowing that I should only break my shins,
and perhaps get washed overboard by going
forward and groping among the raffle, I took
the lamp, and bidding the boatswain close the
cabin door after me, I sprang upon deck and
ran aft with what speed I could, and unrove
the peak halliards. The water was half-way
up my legs, and sluicing through the scupper-holes
in cataracts ; the spray rang through
the air like hail, but it was almost calm
on deck, and the contrast between the stillness
down here and the furious raging that
was going on above, at so small a height
that a few moments of climbing would have
carried me into the thick of it, produced
a sensation no pen could describe.

I was so expeditious that I had unrove
the halliards and was back again in the
cabin before any more water came aboard ;
and now, having got the lead-line ready, it
became necessary to face these falling seas

once more, and so great was the peril, that
I surely had not ventured it were it not
that I was resolved to make or find the brig
as safe as human means could contrive,
once for all, and immediately, at any risk
to. myself.

I told the boatswain to stay where he
was, as I wanted no help to take the soundings;
but he answered that either I must let
him go alone or take him nth me ; and there
being no time for argument, we sallied forth
and ran as fast as our legs would take us
to the fore part of the brig, he holding the
lamp and I the lead-line.

The brig having a list, owing to the heavy
pressure of the hurricane upon the masts,
and her bulwarks being very high, we could
find some protection by crouching ; so we
waited under the shelter of the bulwark
until the next sheet of water had blown
over, when I dropped the lead overboard
whilst Sinnet held up the light. On the
lead touching the bottom, I made a knot
in the part of the line that was level with
the rail of the bulwark, as I could pretty
accurately guess the height of the rail from

the water's edge, and then coiled the Ime
in my hand and waited for a chance to
run aft.

Yoa have doubtless seen the waves dashing
over a sea-wall or the side of a pier on
a rough day, and noticed how capriciously
the seas strike, sometimes affording half a
minute's interval, sometimes dashing hows
after how in rapid succession, until the air
is fogged with the smoke of the spray and
bright with the glancing of the blobs of
green water. But in our case, whilst we
had to deal with the capriciousness of the
monstrous ocean seas it was necessary for
our lives' sakes that wee should guess the
intervals, for the seas which fell did not
blow off in smoke, but dropped in ponderous
dead-weights, so that did but one of these
sheets of water fall upon us, ifc were a
mercy if it did not stun and strangle us
upon the spot. Had there been light, we
might have seen these flying clouds of
water in time to dodge them, but it was
pitch dark ; wee could not imagine they were
coming until the thunder of their fall was
resounding through the hull ; the boiling:

and roaring of the surges around the rocks
made such a horrible din, it was impossible
to hear the crash of the breaker that would
have warned us of the swooping flood.

Presently came a sea, the tremendous
violence of which we could only measure
by the fearful and monstrous boom of it
as it struck the deck and the shore beyond,
and raised a swell that liOA^e the brig a
fathom into the air. The water flooded
the decks up to our armpits, and went
roaring and foaming away to the stern; it
would have swept me off my legs, but for
the grip I had taken of a belaying-pin. As
it was, the receding water dashed the
lantern out of the boatswain's hand, and
we were left in total darkness.

'^ Get you to the cabin, Sinnet ! " I
shouted. " Now's our chance ! " And I
floundered aft, dropped the lead over the
quarter, tied a knot, and coiling the line
over my arm, made a start for the cabin.
In consequence of the vessel's list, most of
the water was on the starboard hand, yet
even on the port side of the deck it was
like wading through a pond. I went feeling

my way along the port bulwarks, and
crouching under them ; for now that the
cabin lamp was extinguished, there was only
the green lantern left to light the interior
of the deck-house, and as but half of it was
glass it threw no reflection at all upon the
skylight, so that I could only guess where
I was,, and therefore you may imagine my
condition — the water above my knees, the
night so pitch dark that I could not tell
whether I was before or abaft the mainmast,
whilst I was afraid to leave the
shelter of the bulwarks lest I should miss
the cabin door and be killed, whilst I was
groping for the door, by a fall of water.

However, after waiting a long three
minutes, and finding that no more water
fell, I stretched forth my hands and went
across the deck, and by good fortune I
struck the cabin door, which I immediately'
opened, but could not shut it in time to
prevent a rush that flooded the cabin floor
fore and aft. The green lantern stood upon
the table ; nobody had thought of opening
the glass, and the reflection on the faces
of the men, and on the bulkheads and all

around, was an extremely ghastly illumination
to come suddenly upon out of the
pitchy darkness of the deck.

I found the boatswain sitting at the table,
leaning his head on his hands ; he was
streaming wet, his hair hung over his
fingers, and there was a pool of water on
the table at his elbows. Nelly stood by
his side with some brandy, and both the
seamen were at the foremost end of the
table.

^^What is the matter with Sinnet ? " I
asked, shaking my legs to get some of the
water out of my shoes. ^' Is he hurt ? "

*^ When he came off the deck just now
he fell down : he didn't capsize over anything
; he dropped like a man in a swoon,
sir," answered Johnson.

I slued the lantern round and opened it
so as to get the white light into the cabin ;
as I did so the boatswain raised his head
and said in a low voice, '' It must ha'
been that sea as knocked me silly, Mr. Lee ;
I was all right until I fetched this hero
cabin, and then my knees give way. But
I feel better now, sir;" and he took the

glass from Nelly and emptied it, but his
hand shook as though he had the ague,
and he seemed to find it difficult to open
his teeth so as to drink.

Seeing this, I immediately ordered Johnson
and Matthews to take him to his berth,
strip and dry him, and get him into the
bunk. When they laid hold of him gently
by the arms, he looked up bewildered, and
on one of them saying, " Come along,
bo'sun ; when you're shifted and turned in
you'll be right enough, shipmate," he got
up slowly, and quietly and went with them ;
but his manner and walk frightened me :
whether he had been internally injured or
whether he had received a violent shock on
the nerves I could not tell. I turned to
Nelly and exclaimed, '^ God grant nothing
may go wrong with him ! He is like my
right arm to me. yere you here when
he came off the deck ? "

'' Yes. I came out of my berth almost
immediately after you, and he went on
deck," she replied. "■ He fell suddenly just
as Johnson described. The two sailors
raised him and he sat down at the table

.groaning a little. I fetched some brandy,
and then yon came in." Then, looking at
me, she cried, '^My darling, your clothes
are wringing wet ! why is it necessary for
you to be on deck ? " and so saying she
poured me out some brandy, of which I
stood greatly in need.

"The brig must be watched, Nell," I
answered ; and the shattering of a sea at
that moment on the deck, and a short but
strong roll of the hull, recalled me to the
work I had in hand. Fetching a three-foot
rule from the carpenter's berth, I measured
off the line from the knots to the lead, and
allowing for the height of the rail and the
depth of water the brig drew, I found there
were three and a quarter fathoms under her
bows, and five fathoms aft ; from these
figures I subtracted the fall of the ebb, and
was satisfied that the vessel would have
enough water to ride in, without risk of
touching the bottom, should there come as
heavy a swell again as was now rolling.

This discovery cheered me, and I applauded
myself for my perseverance intaking
these soundings and satisfying my

mind. I opened the door of the mate's
berth, that the men might hear the news,
and exclaimed that all danger of the swell
grounding us being over, we had nothing to
fear whilst our warps held, for it would take
more water than was now coming aboard todo
this massive little brig any hurt.

*d'ye hear that, bo'sun ? " cried Matthews,
cheerfully ; but he was answered by
a strange grunting noise. I waited until
they had got the poor fellow undressed and
dry in the bunk with a blanket over him,
and then endeavoured to get him to tell me
where he was hurt, but he kept his eyes
closed and breathed stertorously, answering
vaguely like a man dozing ; so I came away,
greatly depressed again, for his appearance
was very alarming, and the more so because
none of us knew where he was hurt.
Matthews fancied it was in the head, and
I thought so too, from having seen the poor
fellow sit clasping his temples. The sea
that struck the lamp from his hand had
indeed been a terrible fall of water, and
whether it had beaten him down or driven
him against some hard projection I could

not imagine : it was enough that this bold,
brave, useful seaman had been hurt, and
I grieved like a child over the fear that his
injury was a serious one.

Meanwhile Nelly had got me some dry
clothes, and I was glad enough to be rid
of my streaming garments, which I threw
off in the carpenter's berth. When I had
shifted myself and come back into the
living-room, as I have sometimes termed
that division of the cabin in which we ate
our meals, Nelly asked my permission to
watch by the boatswain. Glad as I should
have been to think of my darling sleeping
through the hours of this night, yet the life
of the boatswain was so precious to me,
and his manly, cheerful nature had excited
in me such an affection for him, that I
would not deny her ; and, indeed, this was
a duty for which her uncomplaining character
and her devoted tenderness of spirit
admirably fitted her, nor could any one of
us three men have filled that part as she
^ could.

The wild and dreadful gale was still at its
height, and the water pouring in great seas

over and on to us. These falls were now
almost continuous. It was impossible to
go on deck, nor could we have done any
good by venturing there ; nay, every time
we opened the cabin door we incurred a
serious peril ; for the main deck was afloat,
and the least opening of the door let the
water in, and, strong as the bulkheads were,
yet, as all our provisions were in the after-compartment,
and most of them were of a
kind to be ruined by salt-water, it would
have been madness to risk the flooding of
the cabin.

Now that Johnson and Matthews were
awake, they had not the heart to turn in
again. Truly the uproar outside was in the
highest degree intimidating — more so than
any description I can give will convey.
The men said they preferred to keep watch
with me, and for some time their talk was
of the boatswain. They spoke of him with
the tenderness of women. I could not have
imagined these rough fellows had such
gentle thoughts in them.

Several times I went into the berth where
the boatswain lay, and looked at him. The

little place was lighted by a single candle
stuck in a bottle, and the light was but a
poor one. Never once since he had been
laid in his bunk had he stirred or opened
his eyes. His breathing was regular, but
very loud. It touched me to the quick to
see his features, placid, as I believe they
were, with insensibility, lying on the rude,
unheeded bolster, his hair lying all lank"
over his brown forehead, his face scarred
like a rock with years of salt and weather,
his great, muscular hands lying helpless on
the blanket, and his shapely, solid throat,
that was burned by the sun to a dark brown
under the chin, and all below as fair and
white as a girl's flesh, exposed by the open
shirt.

'' I hope — I lioi')e there is nothing seriously
the matter with him, Nelly," I said.

She looked up at me with glistening eyes
and a sad shake of the head. Common
misfortune and danger and suffering had
filled both our hearts with a great kindness
for this manly English sailor, and the sorrow
with which I beheld him lying stricken was
altogether independent of the sense of the

heavy blow his loss would be to oiir little
company. Besides, it was he who had
snatched Nelly from the deck of the
Waldersliare and saved her life ; and when
I thought of him, only a few hours before
singing merry songs and relating his quaint
stories, and now viewed him lying as helpless
as a baby, my heart weighed in me like lead.
I had been pacing up and down the little
cabin for above an hour. The two sailors
sat with folded arms at the table, listening
with me to the ceaseless roaring of the
humane and the wild washing of the flying
seas, whilst the little brig was rolling to a
real tumble in the creek ; and I was peering
through the little windows in fruitless
efforts to penetrate the ponderous inky
blackness in search of any break in the
clouds or for any glimpse of the rocks, so
that I might see whether the warps held
us in our station or not, when a terrific
stroke of lightning flashed overhead, so
frightfully brilliant that, but for the greenish
tinge in the light, one might have
thought that the very sun had leapt into
the sky and vanished in a breath. I was

looking thronged the foremost window at
the time, and every visible thing started out
of the midnight blackness like a picture
drawn in fire ; and immediately after there
came such a wild crash of thunder that
the mere roar of it struck me motionless
and breathless.

^^ Hark ! " shouted Johnson, leaping onto
his feet and holding up both his hands.
^' My God Almighty ! the island's going ! "

Amid the hollow booming of the thunder
as it rattled away into the distance there
was to be heard a rumbling sound of a most
extraordinary character. I can only liken
it to the noise caused by the wheels of a
heavy van passing over a stony road, and
the whole brig trembled just as a house
trembles when such a van as I mean passes
the door. This sound did not last above
ten seconds. It was then followed by a
mighty splash, and at the same momenta
great wave poured over the brig and
washed away aft, so high that the light in
the cabin was reflected in the black water
two-thirds the height of the window through
which I had been looking.

We none of lis spoke ; we did not know
what had happened, nor what was next to
come. For my own part, the frightful flash
of Lightning, coupled with Johnson's shouts,
had so capsized my nerves that I had not
yet had time to rally myself, and stood
holding hy the table breathing quickly, the
sweat pouring down my face, and my eyes
fixed on the black window-panes.

^^Is this rain?" suddenly exclaimed
Matthews.

There could be no mistaking the soit ;
it was falling in a perfect thunder on the
deck-house, and we could hear nothing but
the noise of it.

'' What has happened ? " I cried. '' What
was that strange noise ? Has the island
gone, indeed ! "

^' God ha' mercy on us ! " exclaimed
Johnson, almost cowering as he stood.
'^ This is worse than being water-logged
out at sea."

There was no alteration in the movements
of the brig ; she rose and fell as
before, and I began to breathe more freely,
for I considered that if any portion of this

island had been swept away we should be
experiencing a very different kind of sea.

We remained silent, listening to the rain
that was making the water boil on the
main-deck, and thundering overhead with
a hurricane-note, expecting we knew not
what, and above all dreading another flash
of lightning, when the rain ceased with
extraordinary suddenness, and was followed
by a breathless silence overhead, amid
which nothing was to be heard but the
heavy breathing of the boatswain and the
gushing of water. The brig stood upright
on a level keel, and rolled but very gently.
Matthews passed his arm over his forehead,
and came to my side of the table and
peered through the skylight.

<<• Why, Mr. Lee," he suddenly cried,
'^ what are those lights, sir? "

I looked, and saw that they were stars.
Hearing nothing, I stood upon the table
and opened the skylight. A little stream
of water poured down. I looked and
listened. The stars were shining, and no
sound but the gushing of water struck
my ear.

VOL. III. K

'' The gale's blown itself out, boys ! "
I cried, letting the skylight fall : 'the sky
is full of stars! "

The two men raised a cheer, that was
instantly silenced by Nelly coming ont of
the mate's berth, and holding up her
hand.

'hush!" she exclaimed softly. "Will,
I fear he is dying. Come and look at him."

I had seen death before, and knew it
again, miserable as was the light that
glimmered upon this brave, rough face ;
the breathing was terribly oppressed and
noisy. He had stretched himseK out so as
to throw his head a little beyond the
bolster, and his chin pointed upwards ; he
had clenched his hands, and the candlelight
glittered in the sweat-drops on his
forehead. I was awed to behold his eyes
open and turned upon me.

Do you wish to speak — is there anything
you want ? ' ' said Nelly, with exquisite
tenderness, bending her face close
to his.

His lips moved, but he did not articulate.
There stood at the foot of the bunk a

panuikin containing a little weak brandy
and water ; I put my arm under his head
and raised him, and moistened his lips.

'^ Where is the pain, Sinnet ? " I said.
*^ Where are you hurt, my man ? "

He tried to move his arm, and a faint
smile played over his mouth.

Mis-ter Lee," he said in a voice just
above a breath, and speaking with so much
difficulty that it was agony to hear him,

^' kind-ly say a prayer — please to "

His voice melted away.

I put my hands to my face — for had I
knelt my face would have been out of his
sight — and prayed aloud. I asked God to
be merciful to this poor sailor, to forgive
him any sins he had committed, to take
him to His holy love should it be His
command now that he should die; and in
such words I prayed.

When I had done I found his lips
moving, but his eyes were glazing fast,
and fixed in an upward look. As Nelly
could serve no end in remaining in this
berth, and as this dying face was no proper
sight for her to watch, I led lier to the

other end of the cabin, insisting that she
should take some sleep, and pointing out
that danger no longer existed, that the
night was fair and calm, and that with
the blessing of God we should be at sea,
and heading for the American mainland
before many more hours had passed.

I then came back to the boatswain and
found the two sailors watching by him.

*' There don't look to be any hope, sir,"
whispered Johnson.

"Hope!" I replied, in a low voice.
Do not you see that he is dying, and will
be dead in a few minutes ? This is hard

upon us, mates, and hard upon him "

The choking sensation in my throat prevented
me from saying more.

He continued in this condition for about
ten minutes, his breath gradually failing
until not the least respiration could be
detected ; and I believed him dead, and
was about to cover his face, when he threw
up both his hands, and in a feeble, deep
note, cried, " Coming, sir ! " as though someone
were hailing him, and then he lay dead
indeed, his arms gradually falling until they
rested alongside of him.

I was no doctor, and could not guess
what manner of injury it was that had
caused his death ; but never before had
any stranger's death affected me as this
man's did : had I lost a brother I could
not have felt more grieved. I covered his
face and came away from the berth so
oppressed and broken-spirited, that I could
have sat me down and wept like a girl.

Ours was a situation, however, that
would not give much room for sentiment.
The death of the boatswain had carried our
thoughts away from the terrifying incidents
of the night, but the sense of them came
back very strong upon me now, and particularly
the memory of the rumbling noise
that had made me believe the island was
fetching away.

It was past two, and the night as still
as the tomb. I opened the door of the
deck-house, and found that the water had
drained away off the decks. It was a
clear starlight night, but everything lay in
shadow in the creek. Now that I was in
the air I could hear the swell, left by the
hurricane, fretting fiercely outside, and washing

the rocks heavily. There ^^as nothing
to be seen by looking aronncl, save the
naked outline of the low shore on either
hand of us, in which, though I scanned it
attentively, I could see no change ; and
therefore could not conceive what the
rumbling noise had signified, unless occasioned
by a disturbance under water.

All was well with us aloft, however, for
the outlines of the masts were plain enough
against the stars, and this I reckoned a
great mercy after that flash of lightning.
The warps were secure, with the exception
of the warp over the port bow, which I
foimd slack ; we hauled it in, and on examining
the end of it by the cabin lamp
(which Johnson had kicked against as he
came on deck and trimmed and lighted), we
found that it had either chafed in halves
or had given under a strain. But we had
enough warps over to hold us without this
on a fine night, and without wind aloft,
and having had no sleep since five o'clock
on the preceding morning, I told Johnson
and Matthias to arrange to keep watch
between them, during the next four hours,

and to let me sleep until six o'clock, unless
there should be real cause to disturb me.
Then bringing the mattress of the hammock
out of the berth where the poor boatswain
lay, I laid it on the floor on the carpenter's
cabin, threw myself upon it, and fell fast
asleep.

CHAPTER IV.

THE TWO COMPASSES.

The men let me rest until six, as I had told
them. Matthews aroused me, and there
was an air of eagerness in him that, I may-say,
I noticed before I was wide awake.

^'You can see what gave way in the
night, sir," he exclaimed, ^^ and made the
hullabaloo."

I jumped up, having thrown myself down
completely dressed, and followed him into
the bow of the brig ; and there, lying as faraway
again from us as our jibboom end, and
in the middle of the creek, was a huge rock,
half as big as our vessel, showing a surface
of about nine feet above the water that
flowed around it. It was a rock I had
noticed, and indeed stood on, when I was
ashore with Nelly, lodged about a hundred
feet above the land that sloped down into

the head of the creek ; and it had probably
been uprooted and thrown down the incline
by a thunderbolt, or by some convulsion
that had occurred when we heard the
rumbling noise. There it lay, in the very
place I had proposed to warp the brig to
that the ebb might leave her aground, so
that had it struck either the bows or the
side of the brig it would have dashed her
into staves. As it was, it had done us no
further harm than to carry away our warp.

I returned to the quarter-deck, and sprang
into the main-rigging and climbed into the
cross-trees in order to have a look round.
It was a brilliantly clear morning, with a
pleasant breeze from the south-west, and
the sea stretched all around in a sheet of
bright blue, heaving under a long and
somewhat heavy swell from the westward.
The water was pouring in sparkling foam-less
coils over the reef in the south, and
rising and falling in green transparent hills
against the sides of the rocks on the port
side of the mouth of the creek ; but so far
as I could make out there was no alteration
in the form or appearance of the island.

The experiences of lasfc night, however
determined me upon getting away as soon
as possible from this place, and taking m}'
chance on the wide waters. It is true that,
but for the shelter afforded by the island,
the brig, water-logged as she would have
been, must in all likelihood have gone to
pieces in the hurricane, and we should have
perished; but now that the leak was
stopped we should be safer at sea, even in a
gale of wind, than in this creek, exposed to
the beating of the water as it flew over the
rocks; and so I made up my mind to get
away from it as soon as possible.

Neither of our boats had suffered during;
the night from the breaking of the sea,
though it was the strangest luck in the
world that they had not both been knocked
to pieces ; they were fall of water, and that
was all, and it was no hard matter to pull
out the plugs and let the water run. Having
reached the deck, I called the men and
proposed that we should bury the boatswain
at once, by sewing the body i\^ in
the hammock, and sinking it a short wa'
beyond the entrance of the creek. Indeed,

I wanted to get this sad duty over, as I
cannot describe how depressing to us,
situated as we were, and after our late
severe trials, was the thought of this dead
body aboard, and how the knowledge that
it was lying yonder in the mate's berth
made us feel the loss of his burly presence
and his strong, willing hands.

I asked Johnson to assist me to sew the
hammock round the body, but he seemed
to shrink with a kind of horror from
handling and seeing the corpse ; on which
Matthews said he would help me. I
was nearly reproaching Johnson for his
cowardice to a dead shipmate ; but I could
not but remember my own superstitious
horrors aboard this vessel when I was first
in her; and this man had suffered more
than I, for his had been the experience of
the open boat at sea, and so I had not the
heart to abuse him. I therefore told him
to light the galley fire whilst we went about
our sad work; and having procured some
twine and palms and needles from the
carpenter's berth, we took down the hammock
and put the body in it, dressed as

it was, all very quietly, so as not to bring
Nelly out before the body was iu the boat,
and we then sewed up the hammock.

This being done, we went on deck and
lowered the port quarter-boat, and brought
it to the gangway, and placed the body
in it. I then knocked on Nelly's door, and
told her our errand, and that we should
not be long gone. This I did for fear that
when we were away she should come on
deck and find no one aboard, and no signs
of us anywhere.

The three of us then jumped into the
boat, each taking an oar, and after we had
got a piece of rock from the shore to
fasten to the clews of the hammock so
as to keep it sunk, we pulled swiftly down
the creek. The snn shone strongly upon
us, and the "water over which we rowed
was beautifully transparent. The further
we advanced down the creek the more we
would feel the reflex action of the heaves
ocean swell beyond. There never was a
more bitter mission of its kind than ours,
nor one that cut more deeply into the
feelings of those concerned in it. It was

not only that we had lost a shipmate, buta
helpmate, whose strength and will and
knowledge had rendered him more precious
than words can express to our small and
weary company.

In ten minutes we reached the mouth
of the creek, protected somewhat from the
swell by the western rock, where the water
was coiling over the long thin sweep of
beach, while the sunshine sparkled in
dazzling gleams on the coral rocks as the
swell that washed them subsided, and left
them full of glittering cascades ; and here
we threw in our oars, and after securing
the weight to the hammock-clews, the men
raised the body, and when I had offered
a short prayer, lowered it into the water
and let it go.

So this was the end of poor Sinnet, and
now there were but three men to work the
brig across the ocean when the time should
come to sail.

On gaining the brig I went into the storeroom
with a light to sec if any water had
leaked in during the night. The deck was
damp, sufficiently so to prove that some water

had crept in under the bulkheads ; so, whilst
Nelly prepared the breakfast, we brought
out the bags of bread, the flour, sugar, and
whatever else could take injury from water,
and got them in the sun on the main-deck,
and thoroughly dried the store-room floor,
and with some of the planks which were
still knocking about we made a raised floor,
and stowed our provisions on it.

This brought us to nearly half-past seven,
by which time breakfast was ready. We
took our seats at the cabin table sadly, and
spoke but little. There were but fom- of
us now, and yesterday there had been five.
I thought of his rough brown face, his
respectful air to Nelly, his manly, simple
manners, the songs he sung last night,
and the figure of him as he sat clasping
his temples, with the water in a pool at
his elbows, trembling under his death-blow.

^' Men'* said I, 'sour work to-day will
be this : there are eight feet of water in
the hold, and the first thing we must dois
to pump it out. I. should like to be
able to come across some pitch to serve
the oakum, and dien the water is out of

lier we must give her bottom another good
overhaul. When this is done there will
be nothing else to detain us. Valparaiso
is our nearest port, and I shall make for
it. As well as I can judge we are about
fifteen hundred miles to the westward of
that place, and the trades should carry
us there on a bowline in a fortnight, if
this brig sails as well as she promises.
We're under-manned, my lads — there's no
mistake about that — and for this reason I
shall keep the royal and top-gallant yards
on deck. The one really bad look-out is,
I've got no sextant aboard, and I can't
swear to within twenty miles of where
we are. However, when we get to sea
we must keep a bright look-out for ships,
and if they can't lend us any men, they'll
give us their reckonings, and so we must
hope for the best and go to work."

So saying, and with a smile at Nelly, I
left the table, and the men following me,
we tailed on to the pumps, and there we
stuck.

Pumping is the hardest work aboard
ship ; no labour wearies sooner nor exhausts

a man more completely. In order
to sustain our strength we pumped two
at a time, the third man stepping in every
ten minutes, and this arrangement enabled
us to keep the pumps going pretty briskly.
When we knocked off for dinner there were
only two feet of water left in her, and
looking over the side I noticed that the
line of her metal sheathing was only an
inch or two below the water. We gave a
half hour to our dinner, and then turned
to again, and, pumping with great energy
at three o'clock the pumps sucked, or, to
state the fact in less nautical language, we
had pumped all the water out of her.

Exhausted as we were, yet the hollow
sound of the sucker in the pump so inspirited
us, that we could not help uttering
a cheer ; but the task had proved heavier
than we had imagined it : our shirts were
soaked with perspiration, and unable to
stand, we flung ourselves on to the deck
under the shadow of the cabin, and lay
there panting like wounded dogs.

A pannikin of rum and water and twenty
minutes' rest gave us back our strength.

and calling to Matthews to light the cabin
lamp and follow me, I went into the brig's
forecastle to search the fore-peak for the
pitch I wanted.

A landsman would have found himself ina
rather large cabin, shaped to the form of
the bows of the vessel, with half a dozen
bunks in it, and a couple of hammocks, a
saturated floor, a ceiling supported by stout
beams, with a few odds and ends of things
stranded in corners, the whole smelling
strongly of salt-water. But for a sailor's
eye the place had a most pathetic significance.
As the explorer of a buried city,
like Nineveh or Pompeii, muses with a
certain melancholy over some relic of a
human activity that was arrested on a
sudden by the doom of the place, so would
a sailor have dwelt with sorrowful interest
upon the interior of this little brig's forecastle,
that offered a hundred signs of
human life which had hastily fled from the
death of the sinking hull. I have already
spoken of the effect the sight of the hammocks
had produced in nie when I caught
a glimpse of them hanging over the l)hic'k

VOL. in. L

water that at that time half filled the forecastle.
There was no water now, and the
damp dark planks of the deck exposed the
memorials of the recent occupants of that
drowned and chill and silent abode. In
one corner was a seaman's bag, looking like
a pulp of brown paper; in another corner
a chest, with the yawning Hd disgorging
the contents. Here a broken pipe, there
the forecastle lamp, yonder a blanket, a
coat, a cap, an old boot. I walked around
this forecastle with a feeling of awe. A few
hours ago it was as completely drowned as
if it had been at the bottom of the sea ; and
now here it was, empty again of water, full
of grim relics, of signs of vanished human
existence ; the beam from which the lamp
had swung still black, names carved in rude
letters on the bunks, the hammocks swinging
and arched, as though men were lying
in them, a drowned Bible near the ladder,
a sheath-knife close beside it, a pair of sea-boots
hanging to a nail.

Armed with the lamp, I descended into
the fore-peak, and amid hawsers, spare sails,
coils of rope, barrels of tar, tins of paint

and oil, and I know not what else, I lighted
on a pitch-kettle full of pitch as hard as
rock, and with a dead rat afloat in the
water over the pitch. I handed np the
kettle to Matthews, and gained the deck,
glad to get into the sunshine, and out of
the drowned salt smell of the hold and forecastle.


Having set the pitch-kettle on to boil,
we got the short stage over the side, and
made such a job of the leak as any shipwright
might have been proud of. The
boat was then hauled alongside ; Matthews
and I jumped into her, and we once more
thoroughly inspected the vessel, from her
cutwater to her stern-post. Nay, so extraordinarily
clear was the water, in consequence
of its flowing over a hard white
bottom, that we could see a great deal of
the brig's copper, and fore and aft the hull
looked as new, sound, and clean as if she
had just come out of dock.

Now that the water was out of her, and
she was afloat no deeper than her water-une,
I shoved the boat off a little way to
have a look at her ; and there she lay, one

of the prettiest models I had ever seen,
evidently as buoyant as a cork, and capable
of sailing like a witch, if her lovely run, and
the fine incurring of her bows, were not
greatly deceiving. Aloft her beauty was
indeed ruined by the condition of her fore-topmast.
However, I had made up my
mind not to improve nor alter our jury-rig.
As it was, we should be able to carry more
sail than we had hands to manage should it
come on to blow suddenly.

By the time we had gained the brig it
was five o'clock. Johnson was helping
Nelly to get the tea. I found that whilst
we were in the boat he had opened the
main hatch ; and on either side, with the
bung-holes almost flush with the comings
of the hatch, and built in with the cargo of
pines, were two great water-casks, one very
nearly empty, and one quite full. I tasted
the water, and found it perfectly sweet.
So this water, and the water in the casks
on deck, made such an abundance that the
prospect of even a six months' voyage
would not have given me any uneasiness
on the score of our water supply.

The sight of these casks made me wonder
whether there were any provisions aboard
besides those in the store-room ; and as
supper was not yet ready, Matthews and I
took the lamp, and went down the after-hatch
into the lazaretto — a small divided
portion of the hold right aft, that corresponds
with the fore-peak in the bows — and
here we found several barrels of flour, pork
and beef, many tins of preserved meat and
potatoes ; in short, nearly ten times the
quantity of provisions which were in the
store-room. The liberal manner in which
this brig was victualled satisfied me that
the captain had meant to push his voyage
further than the port that was named in his
manifest. However, when we examined
the biscuit bags we found' the contents to
be just a mass of pure pulp. I expected
that most of the flour also was destroyed by
the water ; but we were too tired to break
these • provisions out and examine them ;
indeed, we stood in no need of any portion
of them unless it were the salt beef, and so
we left them as wo found them, and came
away, having now explored every accessible
part of the brig.

When we entered the deck-house we
found supper ready. Nelly was in the chair
she usually occupied, and I sat myself do^^^l
next her. The men were at the other end
of the table, and talked together, and I
heard Johnson mention Sinnet's name, and
speak as though he were ashamed of the
fear he had shown of approaching the body
of his old shipmate.

I told Nelly what I had been doing over
the brig's side and down below, and we
talked together in low tones of the sufferings
we had gone through, the boatswain's
death, Mr. Thomas and the people who had
left the Walder share, our present position,
and our prospects of release. If it had not
l)een that the hollows under her eyes were
a little dark, there would have been no
signs in her face, as there were certainly
none in her manner, of the severity of her
trials, and the terrible discomfort and long
hours of anxiety she had gone through.

"How is it, Nelly," I exclaimed, "that
a delicate girl Hke you, who have never
before experienced anything resembling the
Hardships you have been enduring since the

Waldershare struck, bears up so marvellously
well ? Do you know that your eyes areas
bright as ever they were in your happiest
moods at Burmarsh ? Your complexion is
full of health; your voice, and the way you
trot about, prove that yon have not lost a
jot of your strength. Why, those two men
there have not half your courage and vigour."

^' Only remember," said she, with her
soft smile, 'that you are with me, and
every wonder is explained."

I seized and pressed her hand under the
table. "I believe that, Nell; I believe it
from my heart. I do know that I have
your perfect love, my little sweetheart.
But still, your strength and courage are
wonderful. After this no one shall ever
dare tell me that women cannot endure
suffering and anxiety better than men."

We then talked of Phoebe and Councillor
Johnson, and what a job it would be to
make them believe our story.

But this is your last voyage, Nell,
mind ! " said I.

"We shall see. Will," she answered,
laughing.

A tell-tale compass hung just over the
head of the table. I lay back after she
had made that answer with my eyes fixed
upon the compass, and my mind full of her,
and Burmarsh, and the difficulty I should
find in navigating the brig without a sextant.
It was this compass, perhaps, that
put these last thoughts into my head ; and
it did then occur to me that this tell-tale
did not exactly correspond with the binnacle
compass. Possibly I had noticed a discrepancy
before, without giving it any heed ;
now, thinking over the difficulty of navigating
the brig by dead reckoning from a
point of departure whose accuracy could
not be depended on, the importance that
my compasses should be right, or that I
should have some idea of their variation,
struck me.

I called to Johnson, who in some respects
was a shrewder man than Matthews.

'' Step on deck and let me know exactly
how the brig's head lies. Sing it out, for
the tide sheers her a trifle now and again."

He left the table. Presently he shouted,
Can you hear me, sir ? "

"Ay, ay."

^^ North half west."

Now, the tell-tale indicated north by east.
A deviation of a point and a half was a
mighty serious thing, and in our case it
would be peculiarly so, as the port I meant
to steer for was Valparaiso, and it was of
great consequence, seeing that we had but
three men to work the brig, that we should
keep to windward of that town, that is, to the
southward of it. The question, therefore, to
ascertain was, which of the two compasses
was right ? The presence of local attraction
might account for the deviation, or one
compass must be radically defective. The
shortest way of proving them was to carry
them ashore, clear of any local influence in
the vessel, and observe their indications
there. The sun would not be setting for
another two hours, there was every promise
of a still and beautiful night, and right
overhead was the new moon, like the rim of
a circle of ground glass let into the rich
blue of the sky. What little wind there
was, was about Esse., just the wind wo
required to clear the crook, and I resolved,

before I observed the indications of the
compasses ashore, to warp the brig's head
round and start for the open sea.

** What say, my lads! " I exclaimed, after
fetching a screw driver to unscrew the telltale
compass from the beam ; '' shall we get
under weigh to-night ? Now that the brig
is tight and afloat, the sooner we put these
rocks astern the better."

^' Ay, ay," they cried, ^^ let us get away,
sir. We've had quite enough of this island."

^^ Eight you are," I replied. ** We found
a free channel when we came up, so should
it fall dark before we get away, the gloom
needn't hinder us, as the stars, with that
bit of moon yonder, should give us light
enough to keep the brig in the middle of
the creek. It may come on to blow tomorrow
from the south 'ard and stop us,
but this is a breeze to carry us out, soft as
wax, and just enough to set us steadily.
So, my lads, as we're all agreed, we'll turn
to and get some of our warps inboard
before I take the compasses ashore. Johnson,
bear a hand and get the boat alongside."


The reader will remember that I had
moored the brig by five warps, one on
either bow, one on either quarter, and one
from the port gangway. In order to get
her head round, for she lay with her head
up the creek, I proposed to pass the end of
the amidships warp forward, and the end of
the starboard bow warp aft, letting go the
other warps and coiling them down. By
taking the ends of the standing warps to
the winch we should slue the brig round on
her heel. The shore ends of these warps
were made fast to the spare booms lashed
to the rocks, but as these booms were heavy
spars, and would take us a good while to
tow them alongside, and sway them inboard,
I determined to leave them where
they were. Accordingly Johnson shoved
the boat ashore, and let go those warps for
which we had no use, and then returned.
The end of the port midship warp was
carried forward and taken to the capstan,
and so light was the brig, there being no
tide, and not enough wind to influence her
aloft, that by running the capstan round
and then hauling taut on the starboard

quarter warp, in ten minutes' time the brig
lay with her head pointing down the creek,
held by a single stern warp.

I then told the men to go aloft and get
the fore and main topsail loosed, ready for
setting, and taking the compass out of the
binnacle and stowing it in the boat along
with the tell-tale compass, I sculled ashore.
Having secured the boat by jamming the
end of the painter under a lump of rock,
I walked for about twenty yards up the
slope, and finding a flat rock, set the two
compasses down with the lubber's points
exactly parallel, and waited until their
traversing was done. The cards were so
delicately hung, that a couple of minutes
passed before they had done vibrating. I
then found that when the binnacle. compass
showed an exact south against the lubber's
point, the other showed south three-quarters
west.

This puzzled me a good deal ; for whereas
on board the variation was a point and a
half, here it was only three-quarters of a
point. After musing awhile, and shifting
the compasses several times, I formed the

conclusion that it was the tell-tale that was
out ; yet this was but a guess, and I might
have been wrong too, but still it was my
belief, and so I resolved to navigate the
brig by the deck compass.

I was still pondering and shifting the
compasses when I was startled by a cry of
** Sail ho ! " and looking towards the brig
I saw one of the men in the cross-trees
beckoning to me and pointing. ' I ran towards
the water where my boat lay, the
better to hear him, and called to know what
he saw.

^' There's a big ship down away yonder ! "
he roared out. '^ Come aboard, sir; you
can't see her where you are."

Thinking he meant that I should not be
able to see her from any part of the island,
and rendered desperately excited by the
news that there was a big ship in sight,
I jumped headlong into the boat, every
thought but the ship ! the ship ! going out
of my head. Meanwhile Matthews had
shinned up the fore-topmast and was bawling
out that he could see her, that she was
a big ship, and urging me to make haste.

On reaching the brig I made fast the boat's
painter and scrambled aboard, and seizing
the glass, I sprang into the rigging, and
the moment I was in the top and could seethe
ocean away over the western rocks, I
beheld the ship.

I levelled the glass and looked at her.
She was not above six miles off, and her
hull was therefore entirely visible. The sun
was setting astern of her, and her sails on
this side were in shadow ; but the glass
brought her quite close, and I saw that she
was a ship of at least fifteen hundred tons,
going full on the starboard tack and heading
north. She was a whole cloud of
canvas, everything being set, from her
courses to her sky sails. She was a merchantman,
but she looked like a frigate, sith
her row of painted ports, her heavy spars,
great hoist of topsails, and long jibbooms.

I was driven half wild by the sight of
her ; for although I should not have left
this valuable little brig to rot among these
rocks, yet, if the ship should not be able
to lend me some men, I could put Nelly
aboard of her, and borrow a sextant and

time my chronometers ; and any way I was
mad in my anxiety that she should sight
us. She moved slowly, for the breeze was
light, just sufficient to keep her lighter sails
full ; she made a lovely picture down in the
north-west, with the sunlight reddening
the ocean on which she floated, and her
canvas all in soft shadow I thought to
myself, surely every glass aboard of her
will be levelled at these rocks, and they
cannot fail to see the masts of the brig
towering above the little island.

But then, I also thought, how would they
be able to guess that we were in distress ?
I shouted to Matthews to come down and
bend on the ensign upside down, and hoist
it as far as the main top-gallant masthead.
This was done, but the flag was damp, and
there was scarcely enough wind to Heat it
out. I watched the ship to see if she
observed this signal, but not a brace was
touched aboard of her, nor did she alter
her course a point.

Johnson," I cried (he was in the cross-trees
above me), " we must make a Hare.
We can't let her go. Lay down smartly."

We both gained the deck, and Matthews
joining us, we all three went to the carpenter's
chest, seized each man a hatchet
and a saw, and fell tooth and nail upon the
planks which lay about the deck. Whilst
we were at this work I explained to the
men that there would not be the least use
in making a flare in the brig, as the rocks
would prevent the ship from seeing it, and
we should have to depend on the light, for
it would soon be too dark for any smoke to
show. I therefore said we must build up
a fire on the west rock that looked directly
out to sea, and I goaded them into great
efforts by exclaiming that this might be our
last chance, that my dead reckoning might
end in stranding us, whereas, if we could
signal this ship, we might not only get
hands to work the brig, but all other help
we needed.

As fast as we chopped the wood we threw
it into the boat, until we had a load; we
then shoved ashore, and, working with a
will, we in a very short time transported
as much wood as would make a large fire
to the top of the rock and fired it. I

remained, with the glass, by the fire to
watch it and the ship too, and sent the
men back to the brig for more wood, telling'
them not to stay to chop it, but to bring
it off in large pieces, as the fire had soon
become fierce enough to kindle a forest of
green wood.

It was assuredly our misfortune that the
breeze should freshen a bit whilst we were
at work with the fire. I did not feel the
air where I stood, for I was protected by
the north and east sides of the island ; but
I not only noticed that after the smoke
fi'om the fire had reached a certain height
it was blown off in a curl like the top of
a feather, but that the ship was feeling the
breeze and was sloping her spars under it.

As I stood watching her through the
glass, so excited and engrossed with the
hope of detecting some movement in
the ship as scarcely to feel the heat of
the fire, it struck me that if they saw this
smoke and flame they would imagine the
island was a volcano, and in that belief pass
on without giving it further attention. No
one who has not suffered a like experience

VOL. III. M

can imagine the poignancy of the despair
that possesses men who witness their salvation
within reach, but whose wildest efforts
are useless to come at it. It was true that
I was master of a sound little brig, that we
had plenty of water and provisions, and
that, in comparison with the sufferings castaways
have undergone, we were most happily
and fortunately situated ; yet no sense of
the Providence that had watched over us
could comfort me or abate my anger and
grief as I watched the ship sailing on, for
I was beyond expression anxious to obtain
the help of men, and certainly the loan of
a sextant.

The sun v»^as now very near his setting,
and the passage of the ship was marked by
the distance she had left the sinking sun
behind. The men were moving with a
weary air towards the boat for a farther
supply of wood, when I ran after them.

"Either they ivonH see the light or they
mistake its character," I said; 'your plan,
therefore, is to follow them. So let us get
the brig under weigh immediately. They
may heave to when they see us with our
flag half-mast."

The men agreed that it was the best
thing I could do, and, indeed, I regretted
that the idea had not occurred to me before
I lost time in kindling the fire. However,
it was not too late yet ; the brig had been
warped ready to sail out of the creek, and
although it was true that the sun would begone
before we should fetch the open sea,
yet I hoped to be able to attract the attention
of the people on the ship by hoisting
and lowering the green lantern and burning
a flare on the brig's forecastle.

The gaskets were off the yard-arms of
the topsails, and Johnson and Matthews
jumped aloft to loose the aunts. We had
both boats in the water, but that could not
be helped, for there was no time to hoist
them; nor did it matter, as we could tow
one astern and one alongside until we were
clear of the creek. As soon as the men had
let fall the sails, they came down, and we
sheeted home and hoisted the yards. We
then ran up the fore-topmast staysail, and
the brig strained at the solitary warp that
held her. There was a nice wind blowing ;
it blew straight down the creek, and the

topsails rounded under it, though on deck
there was hut little air to be felt. But by
this time half the sun was under water, and
in a minute or two we should have no
better light than the red flush in the sky
to guide us along the creek.

I let go the warp and grasped the wheel,
calling to the men to get the foresail set.
There was just a faint trickle of tide running
seawards. That and the breeze gave the
brig way a moment after the warp splashed
astern. The great rock that had fallen
during the gale receded, and the shore on
either hand slipped past, darkening quickly
under the gathering shadows. I could hear
the water gurgling inter the counter, and
as we rounded the bend of the creek, the
brig's sails and rigging stood out against
the throbbing, blood-red glare of the sunset.

The bonfire still blazed fiercely on the
little headland, and all the time that we
were going down the creek I was praying
that the ship had observed the character
of the fire and that we should find her hove
to. By this time the men had got the
foresail set, and as we felt the breeze

stronger as we drew away from the lee
of the north-east rocks, we were fast nearing
the mouth of the creek, when, happening
to cast my eyes upon the binnacle, at which
I had never once thought of looking before,
I uttered a cry that brought the men
running aft.

''My God!" I cried, stamping my foot
with bitter vexation, "I have left the compasses
ashore ! "

What a fatality ! what an oversight !
It was enough to make a man fling himself
down on the deck and give up. And yet
it was easily accounted for, too ; for my
thoughts had been completely carried away
from the compasses by the cry that a ship
was in sight, and then by the excitement
of making a flare and watching the shijD,
and the hurry and business of getting under
weigh.

But it was my fault. I had brought this
new annoyance upon us, and I must decide
how to act.

The westernmost point of the starboard
rock was now on our quarter, and the sea
lay in view, and away yonder in the north

was the pale glimmering shape of the ship
standing steadily on and passing away
rapidly, with just a tinge of red upon her
upper sails, while between her and us was
the blazing fire on the low headland tossing
long flames across the sea and glowing
ruddily in the swell that washed the side
of the rock.

M}^ resolution was instantly formed.

^' We cannot put to sea without the compasses,"
I exclaimed. ^^ Better lose yonder
ship than act like madmen. So turn to at
once and back the main yards ; " and at the
same moment I put the helm doom, and,
giving the wheel to Nelly to hold, jumped
forward and let go the starboard main-braces.

The brig lay with her head at south,
and the mouth of the creek on our port
beam. I ordered the inn into the boat
alongside, and told them to pull as hard
as they could ashore, hurriedly describing
to them the position of the compasses, and
advising them to pull up the creek and land
opposite where the brig had lain, as the
compasses stood but a short walk from the
shore there.

My heart smote me for my miserable forgetfulness
when I saw the two weary fellows
drop into the boat and row towards the
shore. They went without a murmur.
Nelly, seeing how downcast I was, tried
to cheer me up by saying that my leaving
the compasses was a pure accident, that
it would not take the men long to bring
them aboard, and that, as to the ship, there
had been but small chance of our being able
to keep her in view all night; 'rand," said
she, '' why do you suppose they would pay
more attention to a bonfire kindled on this
vessel than to those flames there ? " pointing
to the fire that was glowing with a brilliant
ruddiness on the island. There was good
sense in that; but I had set my heart on
signalling the ship, and though I do not say
that I should have succeeded in calling
their attention to us, yet at that time I
believed I should have succeeded, and I was
driven mad to think that my hopes should
be baulked by my cursed stupidity.

No sooner was the flush gone out of the
west than the darkness fell ; the silver streak
of new moon shone with exquisite brilliancy,

and the sheen of the stars filled the long
swell, over which the brig rose and sank,
with green and rose-coloured lights like
the flashing of diamonds. The boat had
rounded the point of the long southern
reef; but she was a heavy boat, the men
weary; moreover, the ebb-tide would now
be strong, and the breeze was right in their
teeth. I knew their progress was slow by
the lasting sound of the grinding of the oars
that the breeze and the smooth water rendered
marvellously distinct, although by this
time the current and the wind had set us
fully a third of a mile to the south-west of
the island.

Looking presently in the direction of the
ship, it furnished me with a sort of consolation
to discover that she was passing away
very fast. Indeed, as we could carry nothing
above our topsails, it was not to be questioned
that she would have sunk us and any
flare we could have raised below the horizon
long before the dawn broke : but 1 had been
too excited with the hope of making ourselves
seen by her to speculate on our chances of
being able to chase her. Moreover, she had

got the full strength of the breeze, whilst we
had lost time in getting out of the creek.
Still, although I was beginning to fancy
that our pursuit might have proved an idle
no, I could not forgive myself for getting
under weigh without the compasses.

The boat had now been gone a quarter
of an hour. It was not so dark but that
I could see the outline of the island against
the stars ; but the gloom was too great to
enable me to determine the rocks at the
mouth of the creek, and the steady glow
of the bonfire also helped to perplex the
view. As we were drifting apace, I left
Nelly to hold the wheel, and lighted the
green lantern and hung it in the main-rigging,
so that the men should be able to
pull straight for the brig.

'^ I hope," said I, 'they will have no
trouble in finding the compasses. My
directions were clear enough."

You will be hearing the oars in a minute
or two. Will," Nelly answered.

I kept my eyes fastened on that part of
the island where the mouth of the creek
lay, and my ears straining. They had now

been gone over twenty minutes, and how
far and how fast we had drifted it was hard
to guess, but I thought that the island
looked but a little rock in the gloom, and
the fire but a spark, and I was worried to
see the land becoming so small.

'' Hark ! " cried Nelly. '' One of the men
is calling."

I listened, and in a few moments heard
a faint hail. I ran into the bows of the
brig, and hollowing my hands, shouted back
at the top of my voice, and then put my
hand to my ear and in that posture stood
listening.

This time the return sound made me
fancy they both hailed together. I called
to Nelly to leave the wheel and come
forward, believing that her hearing might
be sharper than mine ; but though the
voices of the men were several times raised,
they grew fainter and fainter, and neither
Nelly nor I could distinguish the least
meaning in the cries.

^* Why, what could have happened to
them?" I cried, utterly aghast. 'why
do not they put off and come aboard?

They must know that I am powerless here,
and if they are not quick we shall lose sight
of the island."

** Could they have met with an accident,
do you think ? " exclaimed Nelly in a
startled voice ; for her experience was now
so great that she could realize as fully
as I, not only the horror of those men
left ashore on a naked rock without food
or water, but our own great peril in being
on a vessel without a compass to steer
her by, and without men to handle her.

I ran for the glass, but it merely
magnified the island without exposing its
features. We stood straining our eyes
and listening. Once the sound of the
men's voices reached us in a thin, reedy
cry, but so faint it was more like a little
freak of fancy than a real sound.

I racked my imagination to conceive
what had happened. That the men were
alive was proved by their voices. Had
their boat drifted away from them whilst
they hunted for the compasses ? What
was to be done ? Single-handed I could no
more have worked the bristol windward

than I could have towed her. The other
boat lay astern of us ; but, even could I
have pulled a pair of oars against this
breeze, it was not to be supposed that I
could run the risk of leaving the brig
drifting away with Nelly alone aboard of
her.

So far, God knows, our troubles had
been unexpected enough, of a character
that no foresight could have provided
against; but here was a misfortune outweighing
all others, in the suddenness of
its occurrence and the severity of its
character. Bad as it was for Nelly and
me to find ourselves alone on the brig, yet
the thought of the men being left on that
island without food or water, with nothing
but the hard rocks to lie on, was so terrible,
that the full perception of their situation
struck me, I may say, motionless. With
what agony would they watch the green
light fading in the distance ! They would
know, whilst the breeze held, that it was
beyond my power to reach them, and they
would also know that, should I lose sight of
the island, the chances were a thousand

to one against my being able to fetch it
again, having no compass to take its bearings
with.

What a death to die ! What hours of
misery and madness before death should
come ! What a blow to befall ns on the very
eve of our departure, at a moment when
the chances of our ultimate salvation were
all in our favour !

I groaned aloud, and threw myself down
on the deck, so crushed, so broken-spirited,
so miserable, that I verily believe for some
moments I was the unhappiest wretch in
the whole world. I was recalled to myself
by Nelly throwing her arms round my neck.

^' Have heart, my beloved ! " she cried;
'' have faith. Will ! Do you believe that
God has forsaken us ? "

'^ Nelly, it is not of ourselves that I
am thinking, but of those poor fellows left
without food and water on that island ! "
I answered.

'but still, darling, is their position worse
than it was in the open boat ? There were
four of us then, and we had no water nor
food, and yet we were saved."

'^ But how can we save those men ? Every
minute takes us further away from them."
I rose to my feet and exclaimed, " See ! the
shadow of the island is barely visible ; ina
few minutes it will have vanished. Oh,
Nelly, Nelly, this is the cruellest blow of
all ! "

She was silent, but her brave and noble
confidence in God triumphed.

^' Will, we must believe in our Father's
mercy. Have courage, my dearest one ! "
she cried again, clasping my neck. " In all
your trials your courage has never left you ;
be true to yourself. Will, now when courage
and patience are most needed ! "

It was impossible to listen to her sweet,
loving, cordial voice and not feel the inspiration
of it. I kissed her tenderly, but
made no answer, and stood with my eyes
straining towards the island, still hoping to
hear the grind of the oars, or behold the
shadow of the approaching boat. Thus we
remained for ten minutes. I then went
along the deck to the wheel, followed by
Nelly.

Chapter Y.

AT SEA AGAIN.

How it may be ashore I do not know, but
the worst trials at sea are those in which
a man looks around and finds that he can
do nothing. The most dreadful peril maybe
mitigated for the time by the mere
effort to escape it, worthless as those efforts
may prove ; but pure helplessness makes a
comparatively small danger far more unbearable
to a sailor than a great danger in
which he can act. Neither we in the brig
nor the men left on the island could be said
to be in immediate peril, but the sense of
our and their situation, owing to my helplessness
to remedy it in any way, lay sharper
in my mind than had any feeling of peril
before experienced.

Here we were drifting away bodily, and
there was no help for it. I might, perhaps,

have made shift to brace up the mainyards;
but suppose I had filled and stood on, I had
no compass to tell me where I was going.
The island, lying low, was already buried
in the gloom, and its situation was barely
denoted by the bonfire that was now no
bigger than a firefly on the sea, and the
chance of missing it, and, if once missed,
of missing it for good, was so great, if I got
way upon the brig, that I felt, by allowing
the vessel to forge through the water, I
should be losing the only chance that remained
of rescuing the men ; and that
chance was a shift of wind.

On calculating how long it would take
the brig to drift to such a distance that the
island should be out of sight from the cross-trees,
assuming the horizon to be clear, I
made the time about six hours, taking, of
course, the same strength of wind that now
blew, and no tide. This consideration gave
me no hope, for I dared not believe that the
wind would not freshen. But looking aloft
I thought, '^ Why, what a fool I am to leave
this sail on her! " for, to be sure, the drift
of the brig would necessarily be rapid iu

proportion to the canvas she exposed. I
immediately ran forward and let go the
topsail halliards, and bringing the clewlines
and outlines to the winch I managed to
clew up both sails. I also diminished the
spread of the foresail by taking the clearness
to the capstan, by which reduction
of canvas I greatly diminished the drift of
the brig. And now nothing remained but
to wait for a shift of wind.

Never before were two sweethearts cast
together in so solemn and tremendous a
solitude as that in which Nelly and I found
ourselves placed. The mystery and immensity
of the deep, on whose long-drawn
leavings the Httle brig sank and rose, were
both expressed and defined by the brilliant
stars which girdled the horizon. There was
no need to hold the wheel ; the vessel lay
broadside on to the breeze and required no
steering; and we sat side by side on the
little grating, under which Averse the tiller-chains,
talking in low voices, and listening
to the wash of the water around trio hull.

Clear as was the night, yet it yielded meno
great hope, for I could not but remember

VOL. III. N

that the desperate gale that had blown the
Waldershare into these latitudes had raged
under a sky as brilliant by night as that
which now Imng over ns. I was haunted
by the thought of the two men on the
island, and fancy gave my feelings a new
edge by imagining the faces of the sailors
as they gazed into the dark horizon, and I
pictured them squatting on the hard rocks,
and feeling athirst from the very knowledge
that no water was to be had, and wondering
whether the brig would be in sight when
daylight broke, and if not, asking one
another what they should do, until my
fancy was like to drive me mad. I know
not why it was that I should have thought
so much of them, and so little of us who
were on the brig, unless I was driven to it
by considering that the men were without
food and water, and my recollection of the
uncomplaining way in which they rowed
from the brig on an errand of which my
forgetfulness was the wretched occasion.

But the breeze was very gentle, and I
had little doubt, now that the spread of
canvas had been diminished, that the brig's

drift was small. This eased my mind somewhat;
for sm-ely, if this wind did not increase
I might hope it would go, and with any
other wind that was not too violent I
should he able to keep the island in sight,
if not to fetch the creek again.

I talked a great deal to Nelly about Mr.
Thomas, and the chances of the people in
the long-boat, the thought of them being
put into my head by the gloom of the night,
and the loneliness of our situation. She
asked me if I thought there was any possibility
of their having reached land ; but I
answered no, remembering that the wind
that was blowing when the Waldersliare
struck would drive them to the westwards,
where there was no land for hundreds of
miles, so that their only chance of being
saved was by a ship.

My head ached a little, and I laid it upon
her shoulder, and whilst she was talking tome
as I lay in that posture, I fell asleep.
She let me sleeps thus for two hours, never
once moving, for fear that she should
awaken me; indeed, had I not awoke by
myself, she would have held ]ne asleep all

night. On opening my eyes I stared about
me, thinking at first that we were in the
creek, and I looked for the island; but
when my memory returned, and I found
what time it was, and that I had kept
Nelly supporting me for above two hours,
I was too angry with my own selfishness
for some time even to thank her. Then,
taking her in my arms, I said, 'nelly,
what should I have done without your
companionship ? We have been so wonderfully
watched over and kept together that
it looks as though it were God's ^dll that
you should have undertaken this voyage.
I pray — I pray, my darling, that our lives
may be spared, if only that I may repay you
by my love for the sufferings you have
endured for your love for me."

It was now twenty minutes before midnight.
The sleep I had taken had set me
up for the remainder of the night. No
doubt I should have been the better for
another foin hours' rest, but I was a sailor,
and with sailors a short sleep goes a long
way. All this time there was no light in
the cabin, though the green lantern hung in

the rigging. I trimmed and lighted the
cabin lamp, and got wine and biscuit and
cold beef, and made Nelly eat some supper.
I drank some wine, but could eat nothing.
When I looked at the food and the wine, I
would have given ten years of my life to
feel that the men on the island were provided
for.

I told Nelly that when she had finished
her supper she must lie down and take
some rest, and whilst she was eating I
talked as briskly as I could, spoke of reaching
the island next morning, and of fetching
the port of Valparaiso in a fortnight, my
wish being to calm and reassure her mind
so that she might be able to sleep when she
lay down. She tried to get me to promise
to call her at the end of two hours, so that
she could keep watch whilst I slept.

'Til see about that, Nelly," I replied.
'' Meanwhile, get you to your berth; for
there are but two of us to work the brigand
if your strength fails there will be but
one."

This was the best argument I could have
used to induce my lion-hearted girl to lie

down. Sop giving me a kiss, away she
went with a smile to her little cabin, and
I stepped on deck.

Although I had been bnt a week on this
brig, it seemed as if whole months had
elapsed since I first boarded her. Every
hour that had passed since that time was
so armful of incident, excitement, and feeling,
it seemed incredible so much shoidd
have taken place in so short a time. I
contrasted my situation now with what it
had been when I was alone on the waterlogged
hull, and though it was improved,
yet I felt with bitterness that the improvement
bore but a miserable correspondence
with the labour, pain, and suffering which
had been endured by me to come at the
position in which I now was. I do not say
that I should have felt the helplessness of
being alone with Nelly so keenly had it not
been for the two men left on the rock.
Had I known that they could have found
a lodging even in a cave or among trees,
that there was a spring of water in the
island, and any kind of food to be obtained,
whether as fruit or fish, or that they had

been rescued by a vessel after I bad lost
sight of the island, I should have bad more
spirit to submit to this uew trial of loneliness
and peril that bad come upon me and
my sweetheart.

And yet, unless a sudden great change
of fortune came, we on this brig were in
such an evil and miserable plight as the
very devil himself might not have malice
enough to plan as a torment. First, I
was without sextant and compass — I had
no notion where I was, nor to what part
of the ocean I might be blown ; secondly,
the yards and sails of the brig were
so heavy that it was as much as three
men could do to work them without excessive
labour, and then only with the aid
of the watch-tackle and the winch ; thirdly,
my companion was not a rough, hearty
sailor, but a delicate woman, who, magnificent
as was her courage, could give me
out of her natural feebleness but little
help, although, as she could steer, her
services would have been valuable had I
lead the two men with me. Therefore,
although I was better off than I had been

when on board this brig water-logged,
seeing now that she was tight and buoyant,
and that I had nothing to dread but a
gale of wind, yet I was not so very much
better off. The result was but a trifle
compared with the labour we had gone
through to arrive at it. It was like ploughing
up and sowing an acre of land and
getting but one small ear of corn out
of it. In truth, it was enough to have
sickened the heart of a wiser and braver
man than I ; and had it not been that
Nelly's life was dependent on mine, or, in
other words, had she not been in the brig
with me, I should have prayed God to
destroy me, so wearying to my brain was
the sight of the dark, silent surface of
water, so crushing the sense of hopelessness
and helplessness excited by a survey of my
situation and chances.

The wiiid still continued to blow very
steadily, a soft gentle breeze. I took the
log-reel to the quarter and paid the end
out overboard. The log-ship was a cone-shaped
canvas bag, and constructed by
means of a peg to take a grip of the

'vater. It would be easy, therefore, to
judge of the extent of the brig's drift by
observing the speed at which the Hue went
over the side. By this means I discovered
that our drift did not exceed a mile an hour,
and unless there was a current setting us
to the southward I had a right to hope
that the island would be plain in view
from the foretop by daybreak, and for
some time after. But then, what satisfaction
would that be if this breeze held, or
if it fell calm ? It would be a maddening
thing to have that island in view, perhaps,
all day tomorrow, and then for the wind
to spring up afresh and blow us away for
good and all.

And yet it was a most lovely night, of
a beauty that made our peril and that of
our helpless shipmates left on the rock
unreal to my imagination. The new moon
was now well down in the west, and looked
live a red scar on the sky ; but the heavens
were so full of stars that there did not
appear room for a pin's head among the
brilliant, remote dust under which the
greater stars hung in tropical glory. The

breeze held the loose canvas steady, and
there was nothing to be heard but the
whispering of the wind among the rigging,
and the peculiar hollow gurgle of the
water as the long ocean swell came and
went under the brig. Indeed, the silence
in the vessel was extremely oppressive,
and although there was no longer any
fear of my being haunted by such superstitious
fancies as had visited me during
the second night of my being aboard the
brig, yet when I thought of the crew who
had been in her before ever I had known
that she had an existence, and who were
gone and, for all I knew, were dro^^oied,
and then of the boatswain's death, and of
the men left on the island, and how unavailing
all our efforts appeared to save
ourselves and get away from this dreadful
imprisonment, I could not prevent the fancy
from seizing me that she was a doomed
vessel, that a curse rested on her, and
that her evil fate extended to every one
who had anything to do with her. When
I was alone on the brig my mind had got
used to my solitude by the time the boat

containing Nelly and the others boarded
me ; now the habit of companionship had
grown strong again, and every time I
looked along the dark deck and thought if
I should want help there was no one to call
but Nelly, gave me a shock beyond any
words I am master of to express. And then
to look into the binnacle and find no
compass and no light there, produced a
sensation in me as though I had gone
blind.

Indeed, when I began to think what I
should do if I missed the island and found
myself tossing on the great sea with a
breeze blowing from some quarter I could
only guess from the position of the sun,
my mind was blank. There was, it was
true, always the hope that we might sight
a ship ; but the disappointments I had
been made to suffer in this respect made
my faith in that chance of rescue small.
And besides, the further we went to the
south and west, the smaller grew the
likelihood of our being sighted; and so
our position in this brig, blown here and
there by the winds, without a compass and

without any possible means of discovering
our situation, would be like that of a blind
man who loses his way on a great moor,
and wanders around and around with outstretched
hands, and not knowing which
way his face looks.

I was too restless to sit, and yet so weary
in heart and limb that walking pained me.
I lighted a pipe of tobacco, believing the
smoke would soothe me, and got upon the
deck-house, where I passed a long time in
gazing intently around the dark sea ;
though, God knows, had any man asked
me what I expected to behold, I should
have had no answer to give him.

Whilst I did not believe that the wind
had veered, yet I could not be sure that
it had not either ; so, as the brig was sure
to lie broadside to it, no matter whence
it blew, then, whilst I believed the island
lay out yonder, it might not be there at
all, but astern or ahead ; for as to my
fixing its position by the stars, why, by
this time they had made a long traverse
of the sky, so that, unless the brig was
still drifting with her port broadside to

the island, there was no telling on what
part of the circle the rocks were, and the
unhappy men upon them.

At about three o'clock in the morning
the wind died quite out; I could not feel
a breath of air even by wetting my finger
and holding it up ; my eyes were very
heavy, and the fatigue of my body very
great ; yet when this dead calm fell I
rallied like a man under an inspiriting
draught. To be sure, it might end in a
heavy disappointment ; it might leave us
rolling in sight of the island, and then the
northerly wind might spring up again and
blow us away ; but still, whilst the calm
held there was a chance that the next
breeze that came might enable us to fetch
the island, and whilst the calm lasted and
the island remained in view there was
something for hope to feed on.

I had got U23on the rail of the bulwark
and was looking along the sea, wondering
where the island now lay, when I felt
a hand upon my back, and the touch of
it breaking in upon the profound sense of
loneliness that at that moment possessed

me so startled me that I was as near as
possible falling overboard. It was Nelly,
of comes, who had come on deck unheard
by me. She had looked at the chronometer,
and reproached me for not having kept my
promise to call her in two hours.

^'No matter, dear," I exclaimed, getting
on to the deck; "I should not be able to
sleep were I to lie down. Do you notice
that there is a dead calm? I am wild
with impatience for daylight, to see if the
island is in sight."

^'We should have the dawn in about
three quarters of an hour, Will."

^' Yes, and God grant it brings a stern-wind
for the island with it."

^' I wish you would not fret and worry
so much. Will," said she. "Do you know,
your voice sounds so hollow and broken
that I should hardly know it. I have
already seen enough of the sea to understand
that it is so full of chances a man
ought never to give up hope."

Ay, Nelly, you do well to put a stopper
on me. But it is the thoughts of the men
we have left which bother me. And then

I have not your courage, uor your faith
either. Perhaps I should have more of
"both had our experiences tried my nerves
less."

*^ You have been tried, my own, too
much — too much!" she murmured with
beautiful tenderness, laying her soft cheek
against mine; ^' but the word end is not
written yet. Here we are still alive, still
preserved to one another, and the sun that
is coming may bring us some happiness.
Will. Why, an old sailor like you would
not like to hear me boast to Phoebe that
I was light-hearted when you were downcast,
and that the dangers of the sea scared
you more than me."

Her manner of saying this would have
made me smile, I do believe, though I had
known I was to be drowned the next
minute ; and there was a little spice of
wholesome truth in her words too.

'' Why, Nell," said I, " I believe I ama
bit of a cur after all."

*^ No, not that. Will ; but you worry too
much. You are too fond of foreboding.
Come, lay your head on my shoulder and

sleep. I promise solemnly to awaken you
at daybreak."

^' If it were earlier by an hour I would
humour you, but it will be daylight soon,
and with the first streak of dawn I must be
aloft with the glass."

*' Then, at all events, sit down," said she
bringing a chair. ^' You move as if your
limbs were made of lead." And then she
brought me some brandy and water, and
sat down alongside of me, nursing my
hand, and talking to me with wonderful
encouragement in her voice and words.
Indeed, such was the art with which she
cheered me ; her liveliness, her conversation,
her little laughs, were all so natural, that
I never appreciated them as a pure effort
of her noble and precious love until long
afterwards, when I looked back and thought
of her as she sat by my side, while the
dew fell in showers out of the folds of the
sails, and the tiller-chains clanked gently
to the quiet movements of the little brig.
She seemed so full of hope, her lightness
appeared so real, she spoke with such confidence
of our safe return to England, and

SO distracted and amused my thoughts by
picturing Phoebe's and the councillor's faces
when she should tell them the story of
our voyage — I say she acted her part to
such perfection, that my spirits rose through
sheer sympathy with her hopes and bright
humorous fancies, and several times I
caught myself laughing and agreeing with
her that all would be well, and that our
trials would make a fine tale for our friends
to marvel over.

Whilst we thus sat telling, the dawn
broke over the sea on the port quarter.
I sprang from my chair and gazed earnestly
at the faint ashen light.

'' Yonder should be the east, Nell," I
cried; 'rand unless the breeze that drove
us from the island veered during the
night, our shipmates should be there ! "
and I pointed towards the dark sea on the
starboard beam.

If my surmise were correct, then the
brig had slewed right round, and her head
was pointing in the exactly opposite
direction to that in which wo had hove
her to. I took the glass and went into

VOL. 111.

the maintop in readiness to scan the horizon
when the dawn brightened.

The daylight grew slowly ; the sea below
it turned grey and the stars sickened,
though they glowed brightly in the west,
where the shadow of night lay so dense
that methought no light could ever pierce
it. Presently the horizon became a dark
uncertain outline in the north-west, and I
pointed my glass ; but I had to bridle my
impatience. Soon came the XDink herald
of the rising sun, but it was not until the
upper limb of the glorious orb threw a long,
rosy, sparkling beam across the sea that
the water-hne grew a clear circle against
the faint blue sky ; and then I saw the
island, looking no bigger than a ship's boat,
down in the quarter where I had expected
to find it. It was fully ten miles off, but
still it was the island, and I shouted to
Nelly that "there it was! there it was!"
pointing as I called to her, though it was
not to be seen from the deck.

*^ Yes, it is there, indeed," said I to her
when I came down; " and in this clear air
I should be ?able to see it fL'om the masthead
were it five miles further off."

I looked carefully around, but there was
not the least sign of any breeze ; the sky
was entirely cloudless, and of a most lovely
brilliant blue, and the sea was as unbarred
as a looking-glass ; and the reflection of the
sun in the water was so polished and undisturbed,
that my eyes filled with water as
they passed over it, as though it had been
the sun itself that dazzled me. I had little
fear, however, that this calm would last
very long ; we had met with so many hurricanes
in these seas that my misgivings
were all the other way ; all that I could
earnestly hope for was that, should a breeze
come, it would blow us toward the island,
and that the weather would remain clear
enough for me to keep the land in view.

Whilst Nelly went into the galley to
light the fire and get us some breast, I
walked forward, and hauled upon the jib-halliards
until I had got the sail as high as
my weight would raise it; I then clapped
the watch-tackle on, and by this means
hoisted it a good bit higher ; and having
done what I could I belayed, and applied
myself to sheet home the topsails : for you

will remember that on the previous night
I had let go everything and clewed up after
a manner, so that the canvas hung in folds
from the yards ; therefore, if I waited fora
breeze and one should come, it might begone
again before I could get sail upon the
brig. The topsail sheets, being chain,
rattled themselves very easily home, alarming
themselves by their own weight. I
also hoisted the main-staysail by means of
the jigger, and then calling Nelly I clapped
the jigger on to the fore-topsail halliards,
and took the hauling part to the capstan,
and after innumerable pauses in order to
shift the jigger, I managed to masthead the
yard. I am particular in stating this, as
several persons have doubted my capacity
of making sail upon that brig single-handed.

There now remained the main-topsail
yard to hoist, but Nelly begged me to have
some breakfast first, and as there was not
so much as a shadow upon the sea, I consented
to knock off work for awhile, and eat
our breakfast on deck.

The tea refreshed us both very much, and
we made a fairly good meal, though my

anxiety was so great that I was incessantly
putting down my plate to stand and look
around to see if any wind was coming.

When I had breakfasted I took the glass
into the maintop to have another look at
the island, and found it just in the same
quarter where I had first sighted it, namely,
dead on the starboard beam, proving that
the brig had not shifted a point since daybreak.
There was a little swell, but not
much; what there was came from the
south-east, so it was neither favourable nor
adverse. How the tide was, if there was
any tide, I could not imagine. It comforted
me to think that the men would be
able to see the brig now that we had got
the fore-topsail hoisted. They would be
sure to know that the sail they saw was the
brig and no other, for I might reckon the
first thing they must search the sea for
when the day broke would be the brig, and
they would be sailors enough to guess that
our drift during the darkness would correspond
with the distance at which our sails
were shining. So, whilst wee remained insight,
their despair would not be acute.

though I dreaded the effects of the sun
upon their thirst.

My next soh was to get the main-topsail
hoisted, and this I accomplished by the
method I have ahead explained; but the
yard being heavy, I could not hoist it
another inch when the bolt-ropes were still
slack. Yet here was a surface of sail that
must impel the brig should any wind come,
and nothing now remained but to sit down
and wait for the wind.

We had our boat astern in the water, and
I remember as I looked at it calculating
how long it would take me to scull to the
island ; and I thought if this calm could
be counted on to last until sunset it .could
be done ; for I reckoned it would take me
about six hours to fetch the island, and we
could row the boat back in two hours and a
half, making eight and a half hours during
which I should be away from the brig.

I spoke to Nelly about this, but in the
same breath I pointed out its madness ; for
if I went she should go too, as I would not
leave her alone in the vessel, and when we
were gone, then, if a breeze should spring

lip, the brig would drift away and we should
be in a frightful plight indeed, and the men
worse off than they were now ; for now they
might hope we should rescue them, but if
we lost the brig thej^ must perish certainly,
and we with them.

In talking and planning and hoping and
gazing earnestly about us, two hours passed
away. It was hard upon ten o'clock, and
I had stepped into the cabin to compare my
watch with the chronometer, when Nelly
called out to me sharply and eagerly. I
came running out to her, and found her
standing upon a chair, holding to the rail of
the deck-house with one hand, and pointing
over the port quarter to the sea.

^'Look, Will," cried she; ^'is not that
dark shadow out there wind ? "

I sprang on to the deck-house, and saw
the water of a violet colour to the right of
the great silver cone of light that the
flaming sun cast in the sea. There were no
clouds to make such a shadow, but as it
was a long way off, and might be a current
or some local disturbance for all I could tell,
I stood watching it until the approach of

the dark line assured me that it was
wind.

As nearly as I might judge from the
position of the sun the breeze was coming
from the eastwards, about Esse. I ran up
into the top again to make sure of the
bearings of the island, and observed that,
if this breeze was coming up true, it would
give us a beam wind to the island. This
was a glorious piece of good fortune. I
came down, keeping the bearings of the
land in my mind by reference to the wind ;
and in about ten minutes after Nelly had
called me the breeze was blo-^dng gently
around us, and the sails of the brig lifting.

I placed Nelly at the wheel, requiring her
to keep it over until I called to her to steady
it. The breeze had struck us ^\dth our head
at south-west, but the moment the brig had
way, she answered her helm like a fish, and
as she brought the wind on her starboard
beam, I let go the weather braces, and (the
wind helping the yards) I managed, single-handed,
to trim them very fairly. I then
called out to Nelly to steady the helm. She
perfectly understood the order, and revolved

the spokes so as to bring the tiller amidships
; and, that we might make the most
of this godsend of air — for we were now
heading straight for the island — I took the
forelock to the winch and hauled aft the
sheet.

I was breathless with my exertions, and,
I may say, fired with a transport of eagerness
; for my impatience to gain the island
and rescue the men urged and heated me
like a fever. Besides, I could not know
that this breeze would last, for it had no
more strength than the one that had blown
the night before, and hence I was in a kind
of rage to draw near enough to the island
to admit of my sculling the boat ashore,
should the breeze fail.

I stood some moments catching my
breath and looking over the stern at the
boat, that wobbled and splashed prettily as
she was towed.

^'I shall go aloft forward, Nelly," I said,
^^in order to keep the island in sight and
direct you how to steer. I will come down
the moment the rocks are visible from the
deck."

I was very toed, yet full of hope ; for the
little brig was slipping over the water like
a witch, giving splendid earnest of her sailing
qualities when her canvas should be properly
set and more of it exposed ; and, clambering
on to the starboard bulwark just abaft the
fore-rigging, I was in the act of grasping
one of the jury-stays in order to swing
myseK into the shrouds, when my foot
hooked itself under the rail. The impulse
I had given myself threw my body awry,
and I fell backwards and with a mighty
splash overboard.

There is no kind of accident that flashes
stranger thoughts into a man's mind than
falling overboard into, the sea — I mean for
the moment, and while he is under water*
I very well remember being quite conscious
of what had happened, and yet thinking it
was a dream ; that there was no reality
in the drench and chill of the water whilst
I was under it. I felt no fear nor wonder.
A thousand thoughts swept through my
brain during the few seconds the water was
over my head ; but the instant I reached
the surface and breathed I saw my position,
and gave myself up for lost.

I was a tolerable swimmer, and that was
all. Yet now I not only had my clothes on,
but I was weary too, and the despair in me
was so great — I was so sure my time had
come — that it was a toss-np whether my
instincts would set me swimming or whether
my despair would make me throw up my
hands and go. Happily, I had fallen on
the broad of my back, or nearly so, and
therefore had not sunk deep nor lost much
breath, and the height from which I had
tumbled not being more than eight feet,
the fall had not hurt me.

About fifteen seconds elapsed from the
moment of my fall to the moment of my
emerging above the water. I closed my
eyes to strain the salt out of them, and saw
the brig sliding fast away from me; and then,
as I have said, it was a toss-up whether
I should sink or swim, for the desperate
nature of my peril rushed into my brain
with such speed that a painting of it could
not have set every fact before me more
suddenly and fully. I saw the brig going
away fast. I believed that Nelly would be
helpless, and I felt that my end had come

indeed. It was a moment of terrible agony.
It was cruelly hard to perish in the very
sight of my sweetheart, and to leave her
utterly alone in the brig I thought to
myseh, ^'If God would only let me rescue
the men, so that they might work the brig
for her, I would be content to drop dead; "
but to die like a rat in the water, and to
leave her to the mercy of the sea in a vessel
that she could not control, was a thought
dreadful enough to break my heart, as I lay
in the water swimming, and to kill me in
that way before the water had time to
strangle me.

The vessel had not gone a hundred yards,
though she looked to me to be a mile off,
when I saw Nelly jump on to the taffrail, and
a plank glanced from her hand and dropped
into the sea. The swell heaving me aloft
at that time, I could very easily see that
the plank was a portion of one of the pines
which we had sawn in pieces on the previous
night for the bonfire on the island, and that
it would be abundantly big enough to sustain
my weight, could I reach it. Collecting all
my strength and rallying all my spirits for

the effort I struck out, swimming very
steadily, and resolute to make no haste, lest
I should weary myself ; and, after swimming
about twenty yards, I turned on my back
and floated a little while, and then struck
out afresh, the swell, as it threw me up,
enabling me to keep the plank in view.
But the longer I swam the greater grew
the agony of the effort, for my clothes so
weighed me down that I had the utmost
difficulty to keep my mouth clear, and to
accomplish this I had to strike the water
downwards, a motion that made my progress
very slow.

After turning a second time on my back,
I found that it required as much movement
with my arms to keep me in that posture,
owing to the dead weight of my clothes,
as it did when I breasted the water. The
whole distance was not above a hundred
yards, yet had it been a mile it could not
have seemed more interminable nor the
plank slower in coming at. When I was
within thirty feet of it my strength began
to fail me so fast that again I cried to
myself that my time was come, that I had

better drown and make an end of this
piteous struggle; but catching sight of
Nelly waving her arms as she stood on the
taffrail of the receding brig, I flung my
whole fury into a last attempt, and with a
]nighty splashing of my hands and shooting
of my feet, I came up to the plank, and
flung my arms around it, so spent that
nothing now saved me but the disowning
tenacity of the grip I took of the plank.

Having recovered myself somewhat, I
got the end of the plank inter my breast.
It was a stout piece of timber, about two
and a half inches thick, and a foot wide,
and about twelve feet long. More than the
ordinary strength of Nelly must have gone
to the throwing of it overboard; but the
passion of love and despair has made women
stronger than men, as can be proved by
numerous instances.

Having slewed the plank, by working
my left leg and hand, so as to enable me to
see in the direction of the brig without
shifting the posture of my body, I observed,
what I had not before noticed, owing to the
concentration of my attention on the plank,

that Nelly had let go the heat's painter,
and that the boat was adrift about two
hundred yards ahead of me. Thanking God
for my sweetheart's marvellous presence
of mind, I immediately applied myself to
the task of reaching the boat. With great
caution I managed to head the plank for
the boat, and then fell to rowing with my
hands as though they had been a pair of
sculls. This was easy work, and I made
good progress. The breeze gave the boat
a slight drift, but nothing to speak of ; yet
it kept me working with desperation, for
the further the boat drifted to leeward, the
harder would be the job to scull her to
windward. So by this time, it will be seen
I had my wits about me ; though, after all, I
was calculating without my host, for had
I raised my head, which I never thought of
doing, being so intent upon reaching the
boat, I should have seen that the brig was
still heading away from me.

By dint of thrusting the plank along the
water with my hands I reached the boat,
but I was so utterly exhausted I could not
stand, and tumbled into the bottom of the

boat like an empty bag; and there I lay,
panting and panting, and trembling all over.
However, thinking presently of the brigand
what was to become of Nelly, and of me
too, if I did not catch the vessel, I got up
and stood on one of the thwarts.

The brig was about two-thirds of a mile
distant, and that she was not further off I
attributed to her having come up into the
wind when Nelly had left the wheel,
although she was full now and increasing
her distance. The form of Nelly was quite
distinct, standing on the quarter holding
on to the vang ; indeed, the air was so
marvellously transparent, and every detail
of the vessel was so sharp, it was like looking
at her through a telescope. It was
impossible, however, to throw my voice sofar,
even had my weariness left me any
pipe to sound withal ; yet it was plain that
Nelly did not know what to do, and taking
my chance of her seeing and understanding
my gestures, I several times waved my hand
from left to right to signify to her to put
the wheel that way. She left her place and
I lost sight of her, and I believed that she

had gone to the wheel ; when, keeping my
eyes fixed on the vessel, I saw Nelly once
more on the quarter, hut in an attitude that
persuaded me she was looking at me through
the glass. On this I gesticulated as before,
acting the part of a man at the wheel, and
using my arms so as to imitate the motion
of turning the spokes. She again disappeared,
and in a few moments the brig came
up in the wind and lay all aback.

The oars in the boat were long and heavy,
and I could not manage a pair of them ; so
I threw one over the stern and began to
scull, keeping the boat's head to leeward of
the brig to meet her drift. The sun was
terribly hot, and in spite of my soaking
clothes, the heat seemed to scorch up my
skin. The sense of the narrowness of my
escape was now working upon me like a
spell ; my mind was quite numbed ; my
actions were wholly mechanical. Yet I believe
this very condition helped to my safety
by deadening me to any feeling of fatigue.
My arms moved to and fro as I sculled the
boat, and I worked like a clock-work figure,
with almost as little sensibility.

VOL. HI, I'

Happily I had not the wind to contend
with, for I was running along the side of it,
so to speak, in order to meet the brig that
was blowing slowly athwart my path. The
salt water had got into my throat and bred
an intolerable thirst ; my eyes smarted painfully,
and the fierce sun pouring down on
my face and drying up the wet on my
cheeks made them feel as though they were
cracked and full of sores. I sometimes
wondered, as I went on working the oar to
and fio, whether my strength would not
leave me all on a sudden, and what would
follow if that were to happen ; and there
arose before me the picture of my lying
senseless in the bottom of the boat, and the
brig drifting slowly away with Nelly helpless
and frantic aboard, and then my coming
to and rising with difficulty and looking
around and finding myself alone in the boat
on the great sea. Yet, strangely enough,
these thoughts did not then produce the
impression that they now do upon me.
I am not conscious that they nerved me
to any greater efforts. Such was my mood
at that time that had I fallen overboard

I should not have made the least struggle
to save myself; so that had it not been
for the mechanical instinct of preservation,
or I should prefer to say, had it not been
for the automatic movements of my arms,
in which my intelligence bore not the
slightest part that I can remember, I verily
believe I should have sat me down in the
bottom of the boat, and in that posture
have fallen foolish and perished.

I brightened up a little, however, as I
drew near the brig, and the figure, gestures,
and the face, though not the features, of
Nelly being perfectly distinct, something in
the passionate manner in which she clasped
her hands, and then in the piteous eagerness
with which she beckoned me onwards, broke
like a sunbeam through the cloud that filled
and stupefied my brain. I felt the pathos
of our trials, our long and bitter struggle
with the sea ; the thought of the men on
the island smote me ; I reflected how near
I had been to death — how the very icy
hand of death had been at my throat, and
had been torn from me by a woman's love
and courage. I say, all these fancies hushed

into my mind, and the scalding tears filled
my eyes.

But it was a happy visitation of weakness ;
it seemed to give me back my mind again.
I looked at the brig with a new intelligence,
and calling cheerily upon myself as I would
have called to a companion to work with a
will, I sculled with all my might, and at last
ran the head of the boat against the side of
the brig. At the moment the boat struck
the brig Nelly let fall a coil of rope into her,
to which I bent on the end of the painter,
and catching hold of the spaniards of the
main rigging, I drew myself over the bulwarks
and literally rolled boards upon the
deck.

Nelly's delight at having me again was
one of the strangest, most moving sights
that a lover's eyes had ever beheld in his
sweetheart. She threw herself down on the
deck and lifted my head on to her lap, and
laughed, and wept, and kissed me, and wept
again and again, passing her fingers through
my hair to dry it, and talking to me in the
most passionate, extravagant terms of endearment
; but would not let me speak,

closing my lips with her fingers if I offered
to open them, and forcing me to rest whilst
I listened to her transports, her prayers of
gratitude over my deliverance, to her crying
that she had me again, she had me again,
and to her sobs, which broke away into hysteric
laughter. When she saw I had my
breath she rose and helped me on to my
feet and took me to the cabin, where she
got me some brandy and prepared me a
change of clothes in the mate's berth, so
that half an hour after I had reached the
brig I was in dry clothes, invigorated by
the brandy, well rested, and fit to apply
myself to the work I had in hand before I
interrupted it by falling overboard.

It was indeed time that I should give
over thinking of myself. The breeze was
as Lively as I could wish it, and not too
strong, but every minute the brig was driving
further to leeward, so that if I was not
sharp, instead of the bearings of the island
making the breeze a beam one, I should
bring it so far ahead as to prevent me from
fetching the island by one board.

T went on deck, not very actively, as you

may believe, and finding the brig had stern-way
I put the helm hard a-port. I then
let go the starboard main-braces, flattened
in the jib-sheet, and taking the port fore-braces
to the winch got a drag upon them.
In a few moments the brig filled forward
and her head fell off. I then shifted the
helm, and with Nelly's help braced up the
main yards, and then very cautiously, and
in spite of Nelly's entreaties not to venture
it, though it was an imperative necessity,
I climbed up the main rigging, and when
I was just under the top I saw the island
bearing about a point on the lee bow.

I came down the rigging as cautiously as
I had gone up it, and having taken the
boat's painter aft so that she might tow
clear astern, I turned to Nelly who stood
at the wheel. Her eyes were full of tears
and her lips quivering, though she was
biting them to restrain her emotion. Fearing
the reaction from the terrible shock she
had received, I kissed and soothed her,
and bade her consider that my falKng overboard
was an adventure that constantly
befell sailors, and I was doing my best to

make light of the accident, aucl protesting
that I should be the better for my bath,
when the sense of her devotion, her surprising
courage, her presence of mind, the
intelligence with which she had obeyed my
signal to revolve the wheel, her judgment
in throwing the plank overboard, and liberating
the boat, burst upon me with the
force of a revelation. I was struck dumb ;
I could only look at her without speaking,
until a passion of gratitude and love fired
me, and I kissed and fondled her, and every
bit acted as extravagantly as she had when
I tumbled on board over the side.

^^ Nelly," 1 said, when I had calmed myself
down, 'let me tell you that the most
experienced sailor could not have done more
than you did. Although I know you areas
brave as a lion, I never should have
dreamt you had such extraordinary presence
of mind."

** And yet I should not have thought of
stopping the brig if you had not signalled
to me, Will. Indeed, I have not so much
presence of mind as you fancy ; for after I
had let the boat go, I felt stupefied, and I

should have gone ou sailing away from you
to this moment had you not beckoned."

But then how was it possible that this girl,
who had never been on a ship before she
boarded the Waldersliare, should know how
to stop the progress of a vessel by a movement
of the helm ? I told her that the
mere fact of her having watched my gestures
through the glass proved that she was not
so stupefied as she believed, and I asked her
if the plank she had flung overboard was
not very heavy? "

*'I don't remember," she answered,
smiling; 'but I felt myself strong enough
to throw a bigger plank than that into the
sea." And here she described her feelings
when she saw me fall and heard the splash
of my body — how for a moment all her senses
left her, then how she reasoned that if a
plank were thrown to me I should be able
to support myself, and how she rushed from
the wheel and seized the first she saw, and
carried it aft as though it were a book, and
let it fall. She told me that her first idea
had been to get into the boat, but that she
saw, if she brought it alongside and got into

it, she would not be able to cast it adrift ; so
sbe resolved to let it go, making sure that,
if I could reach the plank, I should be able
to reach the boat.

*' Happy for fine, Nell," said I, 'that you
did not go into hysterics, or faint away, as
some young ladies might have done, who ina
drawing-room would think themselves
very fine women."

'' Then they must mind and not have
sailors for sweethearts," she answered.

Meanwhile the brig, with just a little
slope in her spars, was slipping along the
water as fast as a man could run. I let
Nelly steer in order that I might rest myself,
as it was impossible for me to know
what hard work lay before me yet, and I
had not yet reaped any particular benefit
from the shock of the fall overboard and
the struggle in the water. So I made a
pillow of a coil of rope under the shelter
of the bulwark, and stretched my limbs
along the deck, talking to Nelly and keeping
my eye on the shadow of the mast upon the
main-topsail ; for that was as good as a
compass, and enabled me to see that Nelly
kept the brig's head straight.

The breeze made a pleasant sound overhead,
and the slashing of the boat astern
was wonderfully refreshing and soothing.
Now and again as I looked at Nelly and
thought of my escape, a shudder passed
through me ; but whether the accident was
too recent to give my mind time to digest
the significance of it, or whether I had
expended all my immediate stock of emotion
whilst I was overboard, or whether — and
this is very likely — the sailor's careless indifference
was triumphing as an old instinct
now that I was safe, and the thing had
happened and I was none the worse for
the capital, my narrow escape did not
then, nor afterwards, engage much of my
attention except so far as it had reference
to the part Nelly had played in it.

She was still very pale, but had regained
her firmness, and stood at the wheel looking
aloft, like a real sailor, to see that the
sails were drawing, with eyes whose soft
brilliance her tears had purified rather than
dimmed. She wore the large straw hat
we had found in the cabin, and her face
was in shadow; her delicate, clear-cut profile

stood like a medallion upon the deep
blue of the Pacific sky beyond, and her
holding the spokes of the wheel threw her
lovely figure into an attitude the most
becoming to its delicate sweeps and curves.

From time to time I got up and went
aloft to see that we were heading true for
the island, and every time I looked I could
view it from a lower elevation ; until, a
little before one, Nelly made the rocks out
from the deck, and then they were not more
than four or five miles distant.

The breeze had freshened and drawn a
trifle to the southward ; every wave had its
head of frisch ; the whole ocean was as blue
as the sky, and amazingly brilliant with the
play of the waters. The little brig was
walking bravely, throwing out a snow-white
line from either bow, and the boat astern
jerked and splashed and made as much
fuss as though she were towing twenty
miles an hour.

I now got up from the deck for good, and
posting myself on the top of the deck-cabin,
examined the island carefully with the
glass. However, at that distance it wouhl

not be possible to perceive, or at least to
distinguish, so small an object as a human
figure, and so I put the glass down, and
going aft, lay hold of the boat's painter
and dragged her alongside, and placed some
water, brandy, and biscuits in her, and let
her drop astern again. The next thing I
did was to take the wheel fi'om Nelly,
asking her in the mean time to get some
dinner for us ; and I then luffed the brig,
which the southing of the wind enabled
me to do, until I had got the island a good
three and a half points on the lee bow, my
intention being to wear the vessel when wee
were near the island, and heave her to on
the port tack.

It did not take me five minutes to make
the meal I wanted, and then surrendering
the helm to Nelly, I took the glass on to
the top of the deck-house and again examined
the island. By this time it was
not more than two miles distant, and the
first object my eye encountered when I
levelled the glass was the figure of a man
standing upon the extremity of the arm
of reef. I shouted to Nelly that I could

see one of the men, keeping my eye at the
glass whilst I called ; but I could only see
one man, though I narrowly and intently
scrutinized every visible part of the island.
This I thought strange, for surely both
would be together to watch the brig coming
to them ; yet I could only see one, and
nothing resembling a human figure was
visible anywhere else.

However, we were approaching the island
so rapidly that I had no longer any time to
give to the glass. I went to the helm, and
when the island was close enough to enable
me to see that the man who stood on the
reef was Matthews, I put the wheel hard
over : the little brig, having good way on
her, ran round like a top.

'keep the wheel at this!" I cried to
Nelly ; and running forward, I let go the jib-sheet
and hauled round the foreyards. By
leaving the main-braces all fast, the maintopsail
lay aback, and in this way the brig's
progress was checked, and the little vessel
lay hove to.

I sprang aft and secured the wheel by a
turn of a rope's end.

'' Now, Nelly," I exclaimed, as I dragged
the boat alongside, "I am going to leave
yoii alone for a few minutes. There is not
the least risk of the brig blowing away.
Do not touch the wheel." And so saying I
slipped into the boat and sculled as fast as
I could ply the oar to the reef on which
Matthews stood. In his eagerness to meet
the brig, so to speak, the poor fellow had
come to the very extremity of the reef, and
stood with the water flowing over his feet.
I was terribly dismayed to observe no signs
of Johnson. As I drew near I sculled
very cautiously, keeping my face towards
Matthews, and never while I live shall I
forget his gesticulations as I approached ;
he flung his arms about and jerked his legs,
as though it gave him pain to stand; he
cried out to me, but owing to the noise made
by the oar and the huskiness of his voice, I
could not distinguish what he said even
when I was quite near him. His face had
a .dreadfully haggard look, and his aspect
was so wild that nothing more piteous could
be imagined.

I brought the boat close to the point of

reef, and then quitted the oar to look over
the side in order to see what water I had ;
but the poor fellow's impatience was so
great that he could not wait for me to give
the boat another sheer. He splashed down
the reef and caught hold of the gunwale of
the boat when the water was as high as his
armpits, and I had to bend over and with all
my strength drag him in.

The moment he was in I gave the boat
a shove to keep her clear of the reef, for
there was a little swell, and I feared that
she might be stove ; I then poured some
brandy and water into a pannikin and
handed it to Matthews, who swallowed it
with terrible greediness. The draught acted
like magic ; he clasped me round the neck,
invoking a hundred blessings on me, and
cried and sobbed like a child, exclaiming,
'' Oh, my God ! wdiat a time I have passed !
Oh, Mr. Lee ! I never expected to see the
brig again ! I thought I was a dead man ! "
I handed him a biscuit, and he ate it with
shocking avidity, biting as though he would
chew up his tongue. There was a wound
upon his temple, extending down the side

of his right eye, that appeared to have blecl
freely. The blood had stopped flowing, but
had thickened into a black paste, and this,
with the ravenous manner in which he ate,
whilst the arteries worked in his forehead
like the pulse in a consumptive wrist, and
his haggard face and streaming hair and
wild, open eyes, made him such an object
as nothing but my compassion prevented me
from recoiling from.

^' Where is Johnson ? " I asked.

"Dead," he answered. '^ D'ye see this,
Mr. Lee ? " said he, pointing to the wound
on his forehead. " He went mad last night,
and fought me near half an hour, and at
last he broke away and jumped over yon
rock. I could not save him — I thought he
had done for me."

I mastered the horror his words inspired
in me, and said, " Are the compasses at
hand ? Let us fetch them : we must not let
the brig lie there drifting."

They're up the creek : I'll show 'em you,
sir," he exclaimed ; on which I threw the
oar over the stern and began to scull the
boat. He begged for more water, and I

bade him help himself, but to drink cautiously;
and he then ate another biscuit,
and proceeded, in a wild sort of way, to tell
me how it came about that they were unable
to join the brig.

It appeared that, acting on my advice to
row u|) the creek, they put their whole
strength into the oars and pulled without
looking where they were going, being
anxious to despatch their errand and get
finally clear of the island. All went well
until they were half-way up the creek, when
Johnson, who pulled the port oar, having
a heavier hand than his mate, got the boat's
head round a little, and another strong
sweep of the two oars drove the boat
grating and scraping over a flattish rock
that lay close against the shore.

The boat's head touched the shore and
her stern hung on the rock. Neither of
the men believed that anything was wrong.
Thinking the boat fast, and safe to be left,
and that they should not be a minute gone,
they both ran up the rocks to look for the
compasses, imagining that two would find
them faster than one. They found and

VOL. III. u

brought them down to the boat. Johnson
got into the boat to receive the compasses
from Matthews, who remained ashore. He
was no sooner in than he called out that
a couple of planks had been ripped out of
her. Matthews put down the compasses
and told Johnson to get on to the rock, and
shove the boat off to see if she would float ;
but no sooner was she in deep water than
she filled up to the gunwales. On this
they left the boat and ran as hard as they
could down to the reef in order to hail me
to come for them in the other boat ; but
the brig's drift was so great, and the time
they took in getting over the sharp, rugged
rocks so long, that when at last they
arrived at the reef they could just see the
brig looming like a shadow and apparently
a long way to leeward.

He had reached this part of his story
when he broke off short and raised a cry,
pointing to the water on the port side of
the boat. I looked, and in the transparent
water just under the aftermost portion of
the western rock I beheld the figure of
Johnson. It was impossible to tell how

deep he lay, for the white bottom of the
creek appeared close to the surface, though
in reality it was several fathoms deep ;
but the water cohered him, and yet was
so bright and clear that every detail of
the corpse was as brilliantly defined as
though we examined it under a concave
glass. There was not a movement, unless
it were the tide, the equable flow of which
was unnoticeable, to ruffle the perfect
serenity of the medium through which
we surveyed the body of our poor drowned
shipmate. He lay with his hair floating
out and his hands dropping somewhat
under him, the corpse inclined slightly to
the left side ; and if ever death merited the
name of sleep's brother it was in the placid,
reposeful posture of this body. And,
strangely enough, not a stone's throw
higher up the creek was the boat, with
the water sparkling over it ; both the body
and the boat had gone down with the tide,
and were now coming up with the tide.

I withdrew my eyes from the sorrowful
sight, and catching the sheen of the brass
compasses, as they stood about a hundred

yards along the creek close down by the
water's edge, I sculled the boat alongside
the shore, carefully looking out for the rock
that had stove in the other boat. Having
obtained the compasses, I asked Matthews
if he felt able to take an oar. He answered
yes ; so we sat down, threw the oars into
the thole-pins, and began to row. To tell
the truth, I had had so much sculling that
day that my arms ached with the job, and
I wanted a little variety. Moreover, I was
extremely anxious to regain the brig, for
rowing, compared with sculling, is as four
to one in the matter of speed.

I glanced at the shore as we went along,
thinking of our sojourn in that creek, of
the desperate hurricane that blew whilst
we lay there, and of the death of the
boatswain ; and whilst I was thinking of
Johnson we passed his body, and a most
miserable fit of melancholy seized me. Of
our little company of five, two were dead ;
there were but two men now to work the
brig : were the lives of the three survivors
to be spared ? I thought of my own narrow
escape, and looked at the figure of the poor

Bailor in front of me toiling at his oar, and
my head rang again with the wild exclamation
he had uttered when he was
in the boat, ^' Oh,- my God ! what a time I
have passed ! " Surely our cup had been
poured full enough, and God would now
grant us the security our torn and tired
hearts were crying for.

I had not been gone above a quarter of
an hour from the brig ; yet, when we had
rounded the mouth of the creek and had the
vessel in view, I found that she had drifted
at least a quarter of a mile. I saw Nelly's
head over the bulwarks watching for me,
and I called to Matthews to give way ; but
his strength was so impaired that I had to
row lightly so as not to pull the boat's head
round against him. When we reached the
brig, I was obliged to help him over the
side : his condition, indeed, resembled mine
when I had got aboard after my ducking.
I banded the compasses to Nelly, and made
fast the boat's painter astern, intending to
hoist her when Matthews had got back this
strength.

Nelly said to me quickly, '' Where is
Johnson? "

dead!" I answered, just as Matthews
had replied to that question from rae.

^' Oh, Will ! " she cried, raising her hands :
hut she said no more at that time.

I asked her to take Matthews into the cabin
and attend to his wound, and also to furnish
him with more food; "for," said I, "now
that Johnson is gone this man's strength is
doubly precious to us." She immediately
went to where he was standing near the
gangway, and taking his hand with an air
of great tenderness led him into the cabin.
I noticed the grateful look he fixed upon
her as she approached him, and the flush
of surprised pleasure that overspread his
haggard face when she took his hand.

My first act was to replace the compass
in the binnacle, and I then saw that the
wind was E. by S,, so that I had not been
far out in my guessing. The sight of the
compass again in its old place was almost
as cheering to me as a ship bearing down
to us would have been. No one could
imagine what it was to look into the binnacle
and find no compass there, and to know
that there was no compass in the vessel.

There was nothing more, then, to detain
ns now at the island. It was the burial-mound
of the seamen towards whom my
heart yearned, as I looked at the naked
rocks, which shone in places like steel, with
a sorrow greater than it seems possible that
two such men should excite in one who was
not of their class. How priceless their
companionship would have been to me now
that we were about to start on a fresh
voyage I cannot express ; but it was otherwise
ordained.

Before swinging the yards I went into
the cabin to fetch the chart, being anxious
to determine my course as accurately as I
could. Matthews had shifted his wet
clothes, and I found Nelly bathing his
wound in some warm water which she had
probably obtained from the galley whilst I
was adjusting the compass. I did not stop
to ask any questions, but fetched the chart
and brought it on deck.

On taking the bearings of Valparaiso from
the point on the chart on which I had laid
down the position of the island by conjecture,
I found that Juan Fernandez bore

due east from these rocks, distant about
eleven hundred miles. As the wind blew
dead on end (though, to be sure, it might
shift in an hour, for there was not much cf
it), it could not concern me to immediately
debate whether I should endeavour to fetch
that island, or steer the best course I could
come at by dead reckoning for Valparaiso.

However, I will say here that I had no
hope of obtaining the help I wanted should
I succeed in making Juan Fernandez ; for
though I had never been on the island, nor
knew more of it than what I had learnt from
the gossip of a whaling skipper who had put
in there for water, I was aware that it
belonged to Chili, and was a penal settlement,
full of the worst rascals of a population
of cut-throats, and that, as these convicts
were very poorly watched by a few
ragged and half-starved soldiers, it sometimes
happened that during the night a
batch of ruffians would steal aboard one of
the vessels which put in for water or news,
murder the crew, and run off to sea.

Nor, supposing I was willing to risk a
danger of this kind, was 1 likely to find ancien

on the island to slip as hands. But,
as I have said, the wind was dead on end
at this time, and what I had to consider
was, not whether I should attempt to fetch
Juan Fernandez, hut which was the best
tack to lay the brig on : whether I should
work to leeward on the starboard tack in
the hope of coming upon the south-east
trades, which would enable me to close with
the South American coast, and give me a
choice of ports to the north of Huasco, or
make a board to the southward and work
resolutely for Valparaiso.

I hung over the chart thinking and thinking,
nor was my deliberation of a kind that
either Nelly or Matthews could help me in.
However, all my prejudices lay in favour
of Valparaiso, chiefly because from that port
I should be able to take ship with Nelly
to England, and likewise because the cargo
of the brig was consigned to Valparaiso,
and I should be able to make quick work
of the salvage business.

I therefore resolved upon Valparaiso, and
to stand to the southward. I pulled out
my watch, being most anxious about my

time now that I slionld have nothing hut
dead reckoning to depend upon, but to my
great annoyance I found that the water had
stopped it when I fell overboard. I shook
it, but it would not tick. But I had two
chronometers, both going to the time indicated
by my watch as set from the last
observation I had taken in the Walder share,
so beyond my regret that my watch had
stopped no harm was done.

I went into the cabin and looked at the
chronometer, that swung on a tray, and
found the time twenty minutes to three.
Nelly had done bathing Matthews' wound,
and had tied a strip of linen around his
head. He was eating some preserved meat
and biscuit, and when I asked him how he
felt, he answered, much better, adding that
he was deeply grateful to the lady for her
kindness, and that his head gave him no
pain. I inquired of Nelly if the wound
was a bad one. She answered no ; it was
not deep, though it made an ugly place :
it had been caused by his falling on the
edge of a rock whilst he was defending
himself against Johnson. So I judged by

this he had related his story to her; yet,
ghastly as it was with the living evidence
of Matthews' haggard, wounded face before
her, it had not unnerved her. Still I was
vexed that Matthews had told her the story.
Her own experiences had filled her mind
with enough horrors, and I did not relish
that the sufferings of others should make
any share in her memory of these dismal
days.

I sat down to the table whilst Matthews
ate, and told them the resolution I had
formed to work the brig to Valparaiso, and
why I chose that port. I saw Nelly's eyes
brighten when I spoke of our finding a ship
to carry us to England; it brought home
the reality of our prospect of release from
this terrible situation as nothing else could ;
and yet it sounded like a fancy, too, for
England seemed a huge way off, and the
feeing of our loneliness and helplessness
had grown a habit not to be lightly got
rid of.

** How long do you think it'll take us
to fetch Valparaiso, sir ? " Matthews asked.

I gave him the probable distance, and

added, that to judge from the specimen the
brig had given his that morning of her sailing
qualities, she was a fast boat and ought
to make nothing of seven knots on a bowline,
though with no canvas on her above
her topsails.

^'And now," said I, ^'the moment you
have belayed eating, we'll turn to and get
the yards swung. The further we leave
this island astern the better."

'i'm ready, sir," he exclaimed, jumping
up ; and I was glad to see a certain spring
in his movements, for it showed that his
strength was coming back to him fast.

We all three went on deck, and Xelly
instantly began to cast the rope that lashed
the wheel adrift, just as a sailor would.

'' Oh, Mr. Lee, she's a wonderful creature,
sir ! a noble woman ! " exclaimed Matthews,
as wee went forward. ''If ever a heart of
oak beat in a gell, it beats in her, sir. May
God Almighty bless her for her goodness,
says I!"

^' And so say I, Matthews. And now let's
have this mainland round."

We tailed on to the braces and swung£:

the main-topsail. I motioned to Nelly to
shift the helm. In a moment the little brig
felt the breeze, and the island began to
glide away on our port beam. ^' We must
give her all she can carry, Matthews," said
I; ^' so let's get the jigger on the fore
tack." We bowed the leech taut and
hauled out the bowline. We then clapped
the jigger on to the topsail halliards and
took the end to the capstan through a
snatch-block, and got both sails well set.
This done, we boarded the main tack, set
the mizzen, hauled flat the jib and staysail
sheets; hauled the boat alongside, hooked
her on and hoisted her up. I then went
and looked at the compass, and finding that
Nelly had not let her come as close as she
would lie, I put the helm down until a
tremor in the weather leech of the topsail
warned me that she was near enough. Her
head was then S.E. by S., and the little
vessel was smoking through the smooth
blue waters like a steamer.

Our coming back to the island again,
when only last night we got under weigh
and believed we were leaving it for good,

had made me regard the rocks as a curse
that was not to be shaken off; and as I
viewed the land now dropping astern and
gleaming in the sunshine — I may say as
white as our sails — I wondered whether I
was really taking my last look.

We all three stood gazing at it ; and I
was struck by the peculiar expression in
Matthews' face. He was but an ordinary-looking
seaman, and yet suffering had given
such an interest to his countenance that,
had you met him in the street, you would
certainly have stopped to look after him.
Remembering this man, I cannot help
believing that suffering refines the features,
or at least the expression, almost as much
as study and intellect do. There appeared
a strong cast of thought in his face ; his
eyes had a wan, pensive, abstracted air ;
and still he was the same rough, hardy
sailor, with stout, bare arms, which he
swung athwart ships ; broad-shouldered, with
a sinewy neck, and an easy, rolling gait,
and with no change to denote the suffering
of the night he had gone through but this
expression in his face that I speak of, unless

it were his haggardness, that however was
growing momentarily less visible.

I told him to bring some chairs from the
cabin, and we seated ourselves. I steered
by steadying the wheel with my foot, for
the brig wanted little or no watching. I
was anxious to hear his story, or at least
as much of it as he had left untold, and
asked him to go on with it, not minding
that Nelly was present now that she had
heard how Johnson died.

He said that they remained standing on
the reef for two hours — long, very long
after they had lost sight of the green light
I had set in the main rigging. They both
of them knew that, whilst the off-shore
wind held, I should be unable, single-handed
as I was, to fetch the island; and yet, in
spite of this conviction, they both stood
straining their eyes into the darkness and
listening, hoping to catch the grind of an
oar.

Then Johnson asked Matthews what was
to be done. There was not a drop of water
on the island ; there was no food ; they had
not so much as a piece of tobacco in their*

pockets. What was to be done ? Matthews
answered that nothing could be done. The
breeze might shift and enable Mr. Lee to
make the island : they must wait for daybreak.
^'Ay," says Johnson, ^'but if Mr.
Lee loses sight of the land, how will he
know which way to head for it ? He has
no compasses aboard, and therefore can't
take the bearings of the island." This
thought came so crushingly upon Matthews
that he feared it would drive him out of his
mind. The swell was breaking over the
reef as high as his knees, and he walked
until he got upon higher ground, and then
sat down. Presently he heard Johnson
calling ; he answered, and Johnson came
up to him in a violent hurry, and in a
savage, disordered manner asked with an
oath why he had left him alone. Matthews
told him to sit down. He said, ^' No ; come
along to the beach and see if there's anything
to be done with the boat."

They searched the beach, but there was
no boat to be found, though there was
enough starlight in the water to have
revealed her had she been there. Matthews

said that the tide had carried her down the
creek, on which Johnson ran up and down
the leach, blaspheming and cursing in such
a way as to terrify Matthews, who walked
up the rocks away from him. After eye
minutes or so he heard Johnson shouting,
but he would not answer : he was afraid
of the man. Johnson then screamed his
name in the most frightful voice. The
whole island rang with the sound, and it
seemed to Matthews that twenty people
were yelling his name in different parts of
the rocks.

The glare of the bonfire on the western
headland threw a ruddy light across the
creek, aud Matthews could see Johnson
running to and fro, brandishing his arms,
whilst he shrieked out his name, though he
never went beyond a certain part of the
beach. The poor wretch's violent manner
made Matthews eager to keep out of his
sight. He almost forgot their dreadful
situation in watching the extraordinary
]behaviour of his mate. After a time
Johnson gave over calling for him. The
bonfire waxed low, and the creek lay

VOL. III. R

steeped in darkness. Finding Johnson
quiet, Matthews rose and made his way
to a higher point of the island, and there
sat looking in the direction the brig had
taken. All the horrors of his position now
rushed upon him with renewed force. He
knew that unless the brig could fetch the
island he was doomed. He thought of the
lingering death he should suffer ; and such
was the agony of his soul, that twice he
half rose with the intention of flinging
himself into the sea, but checked himself
by repeating the Lord's Prayer, that being
the only prayer he knew. The washing of
the base of the rocks by the swell was the
only sound he heard.

He had been in this posture for how longe
could not tell, but he thought about an
hour, when he heard footsteps behind, and
lie had barely time to gain his feet when
he felt the powerful grasjD of Johnson upon
his throat. The madman shouted some
observation to him, but what it was he
could not catch, as the compression of his
throat made him deaf.

As he described this struggle the sweat-drops

broke out on his forehead, and several
times he stopped and lay back, breathing
short, and as pale as death.

He said that Johnson tried to drag him
to the edge of the rocks, so as to fling him
into the sea. He managed, by a mighty
effort, to shake his throat clear of the madman's
hands, and twice struck him down
with such force that each time he believed
he had killed him. Yet each time, after
lying motionless for some minutes, Johnson
sprang to his feet with a dreadful cry, and
recommenced his attack.

This awful struggle Matthews believed
lasted over half an hour. Once he fell and
gashed his forehead, but he was up again
before Johnson could seize him. At last
Johnson, uttering a singular cry, broke away,
sprang across the rocks, and flung himself
or fell headlong into the creek about three
hundred yards below the spot where the
brig had been moored. Matthews knew lie
was in the water by the splash of the body,
but the poor creature was too exhausted
to attempt to save the madman ; he was
bleeding from the head, was sick and giddy,

and under the impression that he was cl ing
he pulled off his coat, rolled it up to sense
as a pillow, and lay down to die in this
manner. Towards the small hours he fell
asleep, and slept imtil the sun was high ;
he then got up, and the first thing he saw
was the brig's sails shining do^Ti in the
south.

This ended his story, for he was incapable
of expressing the various emotions which
agitated him until the gradual enlargement
of the brig upon the sea assured him that
she was heading for the island. It was a
narrative the like of which for tragical
horror, even told as he told it, in his rough
and broken dialect, and amid many pauses
whilst he sought for words, I had never
heard of, and the expression of his face
as he related it, coupled with his acting
the part for want of language to make it
clear, gave it such a wild picturesque force
as several times obliged me to hold my
breath whilst I listened.

However, it was all past now like a
terrible nightmare, though God alone knew
what further adventures we were yet to enter

upon. Yet we had good reason, as things
were, to have confidence in the future, and
to believe that the last chapter of our
disastrous voyage was nearly written ; for
the brig was breasting the blue waters with
the airy speed of a gull, and behind her
streamed a long, lustrous track of polished
water, defined on either side by a sparkling
of froth, and overhead was a sky of
soft deep blue, with here and there a little
puff of snow-white cloud, and all about
the rigging and in and among the sails the
breeze was humming a sunny tune.

^'Our fate is in our own hands'' I said
to Matthews. ^' There are two of us to
work this brig — I will not say three, though
I know what this lady's help means in a
time of need. The first thing we have todo
is to keep the ensign jack down ; so let
us hoist away at once, for the mere keeping
of that rag flying is as hearty as a chance
to a man's eyes."

We bent on the ensign and ran it ais
high as the cross-trees, where it blew out
gaily. ^'And now," said I, "about our
keeping watch. To begin with, you and I,

Matthews, mustn't talk of the cabin as a
place to lie in at night, unless the weather
turns foul. We must lie where we shall
he at hand able to hear the first cry. We
can throw a mattress to leeward of the
deck-house yonder, and two hours' sleejD fora
spell is all that we must want."

^' Eight, sir; that'll keep me going," said
he.

^^ We must take care to see all clear for
running in case of a squall," I continued,
^' and we must keep the watch-tackle
handy. This lady," said I, with a smile at
Nelly, swill help us to steer during the
day, but only on condition that she goes to
her berth at night and does not show herself
until sunrise next morning."

*' Very well. Will," she answered. ^' You
shall have your way. My other duties will
be to see to the meals, and keep watch
should you feel sleepy in the day."

'' Yes. And now, Matthews, as you have
passed a frightful night, go and fetch a
mattress, place it yonder, and sleep until
I call you."

These arrangements were the best I

could make : and I was right about the
sleeping on deck, for this reason ; that at
night the only one of us awake would be at
the wheel ; should it breeze up suddenly, the
man who steered could not leave the helm
to rouse his mate in the cabin, nor would
his voice carry so far ; whereas, if he lay on
deck, the first cry would put him on his
legs, ready to do whatever was necessary.

CHAPTEK VI.

H.M.S. .

Although we were heading a course that, if
persisted in, instead of taking us to Valparaiso,
would carry us into the Antarctic
zone, yet the further we trended to the
eastwards the greater would be the number
of ships we were likely to meet with ; for,
although I do not say that it is utterly impossible
for two men to work a brig of two
hundred tons, yet I am quite sure that such
an undertaking would be terribly full of
risk in the event of squally weather, and I
was therefore extremely anxious to meet a
ship to obtain assistance out of her. Moreover,
my anxiety to speak a vessel was increased
by the want of a sextant. Added
to this, Nelly was so badly off for clothes
that she had nothing to wear but what she

stood in, and there was always the chance
of a ship having a woman on board — either
the captain's wife, or a passenger — who
would be willing to sell me a change of
linen for Nelly. You smile ; and indeed
these are strange things for a man to talk
about; but let me tell you that in such a
situation as we were in, it is the homely
things which fill one's thoughts and makeup
the bitter interests of the days.

Whilst Matthews lay sleeping on the
mattress on deck, I gave Nelly the wheel
to hold, and procuring some paper, I ruled
and prepared a form for my dead reckoning,
with lines for the time, course, wind, and
speed as shown by the reel-log. This done,
I nailed it against the bulkhead by the
cabin door, and slung a pencil alongside of
it, and entered upon it the day on which we
had left the island and the hour ; and I very
well remember as I went on deck deploring
that science had not furnished the mariner
with a more exact and easy method of
determining the speed of a slip than the
clumsy old-fashioned reel-log, that requires
three men to use it — one to turn the glass,

one to pay out the line, and a third to hold
the reel. I wanted to heave the log now,
but had not the heart to waken Matthews ;
and yet I could not heave it without him.
However, I was able to guess our speed by
observing the rate at which the rocks were
sinking astern almost as accurately as the
log would have given it. Our pace was at
least seven knots, and the breeze was slightly
freshening.

I had quite recovered from my tumble
overboard. The interest of fetching the
island, the excitement of picking up Matthews,
of getting the brig under weigh, etc.,
had driven the remembrance of that feat
out of my head, and so, by my mind not
dwelling upon it, my nerves plucked up
amazingly, and I did not feel the least
inconvenience from the immersion.

I went forward to see how our jury gear
stood the strain of the breeze, and found
everything as secure as I could wish. Sofar
as the sailing power of the brig was concerned,
her present speed was no fair test of
her qualities, for here was a breeze in which
she could have carried royal and studding-sails,

whereas the canvas we showed wonhl
have been thought snug for a gale of wind.
Yet when I looked over her weather-bow
and watched the clear, polished curl of
water her sharp stem cut out of the sea,
breaking into foam when abreast of the foregoing,
and rushing aft like the racing froth
out of a water-mill, a thrill of delight passed
through me. It was like being in a steamer
to see the little waves running slantwise upto
us and hurrying away astern ; and when
I glanced at the blue sky, and the level
expanse of ocean beaded with sparkling
crests, and then aft at Nelly steering with
perfect coolness, and holding the vessel as
steady as a house, I could scarcely realize
the severity of the trials we had passed
through, nor believe but that this was a
little fancy pleasure-trip, and that the frolic
was one of Nelly's whims.

A little before five o'clock the brig broke
off a couple of points, and headed S. by E.
There was too much outlying in this to suit
my ])0()k, so I roused up Matthews and told
him I meant to wear ship.

He sprang to his feet, rubbing his eyes.

with a terrible air of amazement and fright
in his face. '' Good God ! " cried he, " it
was only a dream ! "

^^ Were you dreaming of the island, Matthews
? " I said.

*' Ay, sir," he answered, wiping his forehead;
** I thought it was Bob grappling me
again."

*^ You'll have to put up with a few di-ears
of that kind for a spell, my man," said I.
^' But they'll not trouble you long. Hand
me out the reel and the glass yonder."

I gave the glass to Nelly, and told her
to turn it when I cried " turn ! " and I then
hove the log, and made the speed six and
three-quarter knots.

'' That means that the island is not far
short of seventeen miles astern of us," said
I, as I hauled in the Hue. ''I don't think
it will give us any more trouble."

I let go the main tack and sheet, and
signalled to Nelly to put the helm hard up.
The little vessel rattled round like a top,
and in a few minutes we had her braced
sharp up on the starboard tack, making the
water smoke as she began to york a little to
the tumble.

It was time to look to the supper, and
Nelly went forward.

Do yon know what the galley of a small
brig is ? It is a little bit of a house just
abaft the foremast, containing an oven and
a couple of coppers for cooking the tea and
the salt junk. Though the galley of the
Morning Star was a little paradise compared
to the galleys in many vessels of her
size, yet it was but a dirty, dark little hole
of a place too. But had it been a large,
roomy, sunny kitchen Nelly could not have
entered it more cheerfully, nor buckled to
the work of it with a gayer face.

I hope no lady-reader (bah ! what a compound
! but let it go) will think fit to turnup
her nose at Helen Williams. I can only
say, madam, with all iJij heart, God grant
it may never be your fate to find yourself in
such a situation as Miss Williams' love for
the second mate of a sailing ship had placed
lier in. Every fool knows that the part of
hue lady is not at all hard to play. There
is scarcely a servant-maid whose Sunday
clothes do not fit her with such airs as
might qualify her to serve as a duchess.

could she but get the title. But the lady
who hits the sailor's fancy best is she who,
in hours of suffering, maintains her calmness
and her pluck ; who shrinks from no duty,
no matter how menial and soiling, that helps
the common weal ; who is patient and compassionate
of any one sooner than herself;
who has the spirit of a man, but the heart
of a woman. If you have not found Miss
Williams to be this it is the fault of my pen.
She did not mind risking her hands and
complexion to light the galley fire and cook
a piece of salt beef. There are many girls
like her in this country, I do believe ; but
they play so small a part in stories that the
portrait of one of them is too curious not to
require an apology from the showman who
takes the liberty to submit it.

The breeze was fresh enough to give the
brig a good list. The sky was wonderfully
bright and blue, with a few woolly clouds
scudding across it ; but, as I had already
discovered, in these seas a gale of wind will
plow without ever a cloud appearing in the
sky ; and gloriously fine as was the after -
noon, it gave me no assurance that the
breeze might not freshen into a hurricane.

Matthews helped Nelly to hiring the
supper aft, and I ate and steered at the
same time, drinking tea with one hand and
grasping a spoke with the other, whilst the
wind blew down upon us out of the belly
of the great mizzen, and the little brig was
beginning to pitch and curvet and souse
her counter upon the surges in such a
manner as to spread a whole acre of foam
astern and on either quarter. The froth
to leeward was above the scupper-holes, and
the sound at her bows as she tore through
the water was like ripping a sheet of silk
in halves.

'' If this breeze would only haul aft we
should make short work of our longitude,"
said I.

It'll be a bit of a job to get that mainsail
in," said Matthews, " if it conies on to blow
fresher."

"I know that," I answered; 'sand we
must contrive to stow it presently. But
let us make the most of this whilst we have
it. Time sun will be with us for another
liuur and a half, and I want to give that
island our heels. It's much too close aboard

as it is. Do you know, if it should breeze
up so as to oblige us to run, we should
plump into it again ? It has taken two
good men from us, and I'm for keeping
clear of it."

^' Don't imagine that I want to see it
again, Mr. Lee," said Matthews, with a
strong shudder ; and the mere idea of being
blown back to it seemed absolutely to crush
down his spirit, though he brightened up
when he looked over the side and saw the
foam sluicing by in a wide torrent.

After we had held on in this way another
half-hour, until the rising sea and the
heeling of the brig and the quiver and
arrowy-like motion of her leaps as she
sprang from wave to wave, sometimes
flinging the spray like glittering dust as
high as her foretop, whilst the jury jib-boom
buckled under the tug of the big
jib and the jerking of the bows, like a steel
foil lunged against a pad, I gave Nelly the
wheel (for the vessel steered very easily),
and, with the help of Matthews, I hauled up
the weather main clew garnet ; but, when we
let go the sheet, the sail slatted so violently

that it was as much as we could do, even
with the winch, to get the canvas up to
leeward. But we were as obstinate as the
wind, and, as we had no mind to lose this
sail, we got upon the yard, and inch by
inch secured it.

Believed of this large sail, the brig ran
along more easily ; and just before the sun
went down, and very greatly to my delight,
the wind veered to the southward sufficiently
to enable me to head due east ; so that we
might say every hour now was taking us six
or seven miles nearer to Valparaiso.

I watched the sunset with some anxiety,
for in these latitudes I have always obtained
a good clue to the character of the coming
weather from the look of the sky at sundown.
The crimson was very bright and
deep, but not angry ; there was no malignant
scarlet glow ; the pink clouds which
came sailing over the horizon as the sun
sank produced a curious effect, as though
indeed the contact of the molten orb with
the sea threw up puffs of steam ; the rod
haze was not diffused as I had noticed was
the case prior to the hurricane that drove

VOL. 111. S

the Waldershare to the westward; in the
east and north the sky was a pale, smoky-looking
blue, and in the south, whence the
sea was running under the wind, the heads
of the waves shone with a palish orange
colour, and made the darker blue of the sky
that way look marvellously soft.

"I see no indications of bad weather in
that sunset," I said to Nelly and Matthews,
both of whom watched my face as I gazed ;
*' and with the wind at south, even should
we have to scud for our lives, we cannot
come to much harm by going north : it is
not like going west. So now that we have
the mainsail stowed I shall let the brig keep
her other canvas, and take her chance of
what may come. What we can't furl must
blow away. This old top must be kept
humming."

'* I'm willing to do any mortal thing I
can, sir," said Matthews. 'i'm pretty nigh
tired o' this voyage, Mr. Lee. If it wasn't
that I'm not fit for any sort o' work ashore,
I don't think I should go to sea again."

Nelly smiled ; for the naivete of the poor
fellow would have set a judge grinning.

^^ Though this voyage has brought us a
good many kicks," I said, " we shall he able
to take up a few halfpence too, if we can
manage to bring the vessel safe to port. I
hope to earn enough, Nelly, not only to pay
our passage home, but to give you a very
much handsomer rig out than what you
brought away with you."

This talk put us into good spirits, but it
was now dark, and over our head was the
moon, with enough power to silver a little
fragment of sea in the south. I told
Matthews to get the green lantern lighted
and trimmed, whilst I lighted the binnacle
and cabin lamps. We hauled down the
ensign and hoisted the lantern to the royal-masthead
; and this being done we hove
the log, and found that the furling of the
mainsail had dropped the clever little craft
only a quarter of a knot.

For my part I was beginning to fall in
love with this Morning Star. There had
been times, indeed, when I had called down
a few curses upon her, and I dare say under
the circumstances a more pious man than I
would have done the same thing. But now

that she was properly afloat, and showing
me what a real racer she was — I say, when I
saw the way she put her nose down to the
sea and shredded it like a steam plough
turns up a fat soil, whilst every plunge was
as nimble as the swing a dolphin gives
himself when he starts in chase of a
wounded brother, and the water swept
away from her in smoke, as you may see
it fly from the shaggy coat of a Newfoundland
dog when he leaps on to dry land and
shakes himself — my heart warmed up to
the little hooker. I felt as proud of her as
though I shad built and owned her ; and
when I cast my eyes aloft at her stumped
fore-topmast, and her long withe-like main
top-gallant mast and royal-mast bare of
yards, I thought, "If, crippled as you
are — one-eyed and one-legged, as I may
say — you can froth the water as you are
doing, what would not join accomplish
with all your spars taut and erect on you,
your stun'sails ballooning over your sides,
and your royal tearing at the top-gallant
yards like white clouds striving to join their
fleecy sisters sailing across the sky ! "

Exhilarated by the pace of the brig, the
promise of line weather, the prospect of
speedy release, and of soon having my
darling safe ashore, I somewhat startled
her by abruptly asking if there was any hot
water in the galley.

'why, yes, Will," said she, laughing;
*' but why do you ask ? "

**-because I want to make a bowl of
punch, Nelly, to toast the Morning Star in
and to drink to our speedy liberation.
Here, Matthews, lay hold of this wheel ;
and, Nelly, come you along with me."

And away we went to the galley, where
we got some hot water ; and there being
a whole case of lemons in the storeroom,
I turned to and brewed with rum, brandy,
a dash of the wine, a couple of lemons and
sugar, as much punch as gave each of usa
tumbler full, and carried it aft to the
wheel ; and there we sat and talked, Matthews
and I smoking, and Nelly now and
again taking a modest sip from my glass.
But it would not do ; our spirits would not
hold. None of us could look abroad upon
the dark and mighty ocean, over whose

mysterious breast onr little vessel was
racing, without an emotion of awe that
checked our light-hearted mood. Nor could
we so direct our conversation but that presently
we must find ourselves speaking of
the Waldershare, the long-boat and her
living freight, and then of the boatswain
and Johnson. It was but a few short days
ago that we were a numerous company,
with a noble ship under our feet, our
outward journey nearly over; and now there
where but three left, so far as we could tell,
and each of us, God knows, had gone
through an experience heavy enough to
keep us sighing, even when our thoughts
were not on it — I with the dreadful hours
I had passed alone on the brig ; Nelly with
the memory of the open boat at sea, and
the horror of the sinking ship; and Matthews
with the recollection of the night
spent on the island.

Indeed, we found it more congenial to
our moods to talk of these things than
to force ourselves into a gaiety with which
our hearts had no correspondence. I remember
Nelly saying, as we sat hand in

hand, whilst Matthews grasped the wheel,
and whilst the whole of the deck was
resonant with the crying of the wind aloft
and the roaring of the passing water, that
was so full of phosphorus it looked as if
a green light were being burnt over it —

'people on shore always speak of the
sea as being so uninteresting, Will. They
think its life consists in sighting ships and
seeing sharks and meeting gales. They are
lucky people who have made a voyage and
can remember nothing more about the sea
than that. I haven't found the sea uninteresting."


The sea uninteresting! But Nelly was
right. It is thought so ; and the landsman
will continue to think so until a race of
sailor authors, worthy of this great maritime
country, arise to relate what they have seen
and heard; what has befallen themselves
and others ; whose simple narratives, never
exaggerating the bare truth, shall exhibit
the real interests, the wondrous romances,
of the eternal deep.

At nine o'clock I sent Nelly to her cabin.
She had been up since dawn, had done a

great deal of work; she had gone through
a period of exhausting excitement when I
fell overboard ; and when I said good-night
to her I made her faithfully promise that
she would not leave her berth unless I called
her. Were her strength to fail; were she
to fall ill — nay, the mere idea of her falling
ill, through over-fatigue, was inexpressibly
dreadful to me. So I was very earnest
indeed in the way I begged her to take rest.
'Tor," said I, 'you cannot be of any help
to me on deck in the darkness ; and, should
your strength fail you, I should break down
too. Therefore, remember you hold two
people's lives in your hands."

She saw how earnest and agitated I was,
and promised to do what I asked, so we
said good-night; and then coming back to
Matthews with one of the chronometers, I
placed it on the deck, telling him to rouse
me up at eleven o'clock ; on which I threw
myself down on the mattress, pulled a
blanket over me, and was soon asleep.

Nothing particular happened during the
night. The breeze held steady, but freshened
a little at one o'clock in the morning,

but the brig had no more on her than she
could bear, and was making a fine run. I
calculated, if this breeze held, we should not
have run less than one hundred and fifty
miles from the island by noon next day, and
that we might not want dead reckoning, I
punctually hove the log every two hours,
though, there being but two hands, the job
was a troublesome one. However, we managed
it in this way : we secured the wheel
and took the binnacle lamp out and set it
on the grating to leeward ; Matthews held
one end of the reel with his right hand and
steadied the other end by pressing it against
his ribs, whilst with his left hand he turned
the glass. By this means we managed to get
the speed very fairly, but we should never
have been able to do so had not the brig
been close-hauled, and steered herself.

When I aroused Matthews at five o'clock
the dawn was grey in the east. I told him
I would lie an hour, and then he could lie
an hour ; after which we would get breakfast.
But I had not been sleeping twenty
minutes when a cry from Matthews awoke
me. He was pointing ahead, and called out,

*' There's a sail, Mr. Lee; she looks to be
standing from the south' arts. "

I instantly sprang to my feet and seized
the glass. The sail was very white and
distinct under the light of the newly risen
sun, about three points on our starboard bow.
Her hull was below the horizon, but her
sails from her topsails up were visible, and
by the trim of her yards I could see that
she was a full-rigged ship, heading about
north-east, and carrying the wind about a
point abaft the beam.

The question was, was she sailing fast
enough to cross our bows and go away to
leeward before we could make our signal of
distress visible ? I ran into the cabin and
knocked on Nelly's door, and told her there
was a ship in sight, and asked her to come
on deck. Then, to save time, I sprang into
the main rigging and lay out upon the main-yard,
and cast off the gaskets ready to set
the sail. By the time I had come down
Nelly was out of her cabin, so, first showing
her where the ship was, I asked her to take
the wheel, and immediately hauled down
the lantern and ran the ensign up half-mast ;

although I could not hope inch from that
for the present, at all events, as the flag flew
directly away from the ship and was not
likely to be seen.

This done, I called to Matthews, and we
boarded the main-tack and hauled the sheet
aft. The breeze was still very fresh — indeed,
it was like a trade wind — and blowing as it
was* from the southward, I was not sure but
that it might veer round to the eastward
and settle into the south-east trades. The
mainsail gave the brig a decided impulse,
and there being now a middling tumble of
sea on, she soon had her forecastle shining
and the water bubbling along the scuppers.

However, I was resolved not to let the
sight of the ship excite me as the others
had done. If she sailed faster than we and
got away, well, she must go ; having given
the brig the mainsail, I could do no more
lout wait. If that slip failed us we were
bound to come across others presently,
heading as we were and sailing as we were.

I spoke to this effect to Nelly and ]matthews,
so that if the ship out sailed us the
disappointment might not depress them;

and levelling the telescope afresh, I took
another long look at the distant sail.

Either we were raising her fast or she
was coming np fast ; for hy this time her
courses were visible. She was a whole cloud
of canvas, with three jibs and a staysail
forward, main royal, and half a dozen staysails
between her masts. The brilliant sun
stood just over her stern, and her sails looked
as white and glossy as pearl, and not always
distinguishable, unless it were by their'
steadiness, from the clouds which here and
there flecked the sky. It seemed impossible
that the little brig under topsails only, and
with a reef in her foretop sail too, would be
able to bring herself within eyeshot, so to
speak, of that large ship going free and
showing such a vast number of cloths ; and
yet, being close-hauled, we would necessarily
find the wind much stronger than did the
ship that was carrying it abaft the beam ;
and judging from the manner in which the
brig was tearing through it, making a perfect
skipping-ground of the seas, flashing
up the water astern of her, and fogging
her bows with spray until half the jib was

brown with the drenching, she seemed to
have as much sail as she wanted to make
her go. She knew her errand, and went
for the ship Hke a horse for a winning-post.
I sent Matthews forward to light the
galley fire, and Nelly got breakfast for us.
But before the water boiled we had risen
the ship's hull, and, on examining her with
the glass, I found her to be so deep that
I could scarcely believe that we had hove
up all of her that was above water, until I
caught sight of the white streak of foam
along her side. She was painted black,
with an up-and-down cargo-built bow and
a square stern — no great beauty, certainly ;
and I now found that we were not only
overhauling her fast, but that we had heels
enough to sail round and round her; for,
indeed, she looked to be loaded down to
her waterways. My idea had been to goto
leeward of her, in order that she might
see our distress signal ; but, finding that we
were sailing four feet to her three, I sing
out to Matthews to slacken away the lee
main, and fore braces, and let the brig go
off a couple of points. This manoeuvre

brought the ship well abaft the starboard
bow.

Breakfast being ready, we ate it on deck.
By the time we had done, the ship was not
above five miles distant. I watched her
anxiously, for her being so near kindled
an uncontrollable feeling of excitement. It
was impossible to tell what countryman she
was, though from her long royal-mast heads,
and the sharp sheer of her counter, and her
cottony-looking canvas, I thought she might
be an American. I could just make out
some figures walking behind the white rail
of her after-deck. Never before had I seen
any vessel loaded so deep as this. It
amazed me to think that men could begot
to ship in a hull that looked as flat
as a board on the water.

I had put down the glass to squint aloft
to see what our canvas was doing, when
Nelly called out, " She has hoisted a flag,
Will."

'english, by Jupiter!" I exclaimed,
after examining the colours a few moments;
for the flag blew dead on end, and it was
a hard job to catch its nationality. To give

our signal a better chance, I took the
halliards right aft, and sloped the flag, that
was blowing out like a red flame at the
height of the cross-trees.

The two vessels were now converging
fast, and the brig's superior sailing powers
were shown by the manner in which we
kept the ship steady at one point a little
abaft the starboard bow. In about three-quarters
of an hour I could see the white
letters of her name on her square black
stern, though I could not read the name.
She washed along as steady as a rock, the
sea running past her sides without lifting
her, as you may see it do along a deep-laden
barge. The men on her decks where
now clearly visible — a group forward of the
lee fore-shrouds, one or two heads at the
bulwarks amidships, and three men and a
woman watching us aft, one looking at us
through a glass.

*' Nell," said I, " there's one of your sex
aboard of her. I hope they'll be able to
see there are only three of us here. Ilillo !
what are they up to ? "

As I spoke I saw the group of men forward

tumble off the forecastle, and immediately
afterwards the mainsail was hauled up. At
the same moment a string of flags was run
up at the gaff end : but they were of no use
to us ; we had no book to tell us what they
meant.

*' They will heave to ! " I cried, shutting
up the telescope with a swing that
nearly broke it. ^' See ! round go their
main yards. Nell, take the wheel, my darling
! Down with it — down with it — so !
Keep it steady now. Jump forward, Matthews,
and let go the starboard mainbraces!"
and with many a rush, and by
hauling like madmen, we got the main clearness
up, flowed the jib-sheet, backed the
main yards, and lay hove to. But before
this was done, there being but two of us
to do the work, we had greatly neared the
ship, and the two vessels were not hae a
mile apart.

Even had they not seen oiu' distress-signal,
the mere fact of Nelly being at the
wheel would convince them that there was
something desperately wrong aboard of us.
In a few minutes they lowered away the

port quarter-boat, with half a dozen hands
in her, who pulled directly for us. The
boat had a whaling cut, sharp at both ends
and painted white, and she glanced over
the seas like a bird, the six long oars
making the water foam under her.

I unshipped the gangway, and sent Matthews
forward to stand by with a line. I
will not attempt to describe the feelings
which possessed me as I stood watching
the advancing boat and the ship beyond,
that had hauled down her signals and had
again hoisted the English ensign. It seemed
ages since I had sighted other faces than
those who had been my companions in
adversity; and when I turned to look at
Nelly, who still held the wheel, and thought
of what she had gone through, and that the
presence of this ship was a promise that
the end of our trials was at hand, my heart
beat faintly in my breast ; I felt a s^^dmmiug
in the head, and my finger-nails cut into
the palms of my hands as I struggled to
recover my fortitude.

The man who steered the boat was a
young, grave-looking, sunburnt fellow,

VOL. III. T

dressed in blue serge trousers and a round
cloth coat. The men pulled like men-of-war's
men, with a long, sturdy, resolute
sweep, and when they were alongside
threw in their oars with admirable precision.
Four of them were South Sea
Islanders, dark-faced, bright-eyed, 
creatures. The bowman
caught the rope flung by Matthews, the
boat sheered alongside, and the young
fellow, who proved to be the mate of the
ship, came on board.

He touched his hat, looking very hard
at Nelly, and around him, and up aloft ;
and, pointing to Matthews, said, "Is that
all of your crew? "

I told him that was all, and then ordered
Matthews to the wheel, as I wanted Nelly
by my side. The following conversation
then took place : —

The Mate. " I see you are in distress. A
regular bad job it looks, sir, and very bad
for this lady. What brig is this ? "

Mr. Lee. " The Mooning Star, from Port
Otago. I was second mate of the Walters
bound from London to Callao. We

sighted this brig water-loggecl, and I ^Yent
aboard of her, and was left in her by my
boat going adrift. Next day the Walters
struck on a sunken reef. The longboat
put off with nearly all hands ; but four
of the crew and this lady got away in the
quarter-boat, and, after knocking about,
overhauled this brig. We fetched a little
island that's not down on the chart, and
stopped the leak ; but one of my men died,
and the other went mad and drowned himself,
and so here are the survivors endeavouring
to work the brig to Valparaiso."

The Mate. '' I knew the WaldersJiare. I
saw her last year at Callao. She was a fine
ship, and I'm sorry to hear she's gone. How
can we help you? "

Mr. Lee. "You see there are but two
iQen to work this brig. Can you lend usa
couple of hands ? "

The Mate. "We shan't be able to do
that, I'm afraid. We're short-landed as
it is. Yonder 's a lumping craft for sixteen
hands ; and that's our number, all told."

Mr. Lee. " Can you let me have one man,
then ? "

The Mate. ^^ I'm afraid not. Our captain's
grumbling all day long over the Kansas,
who are slow fists. But I dare say he'd
take this lady and you and your man
aboard. He'll do that. We are bound to
San Francisco, and our ship's the Eagle''

Mr. Lee. ^' I'm much obliged; but it
would be a pity to leave this little craft
after the trouble she has given us. I'm
sorry you can't lend us a couple of hands."

The Mate. were we bound to Valparaiso
it might be managed ; but San Francisco
is a long way off, and we want all
the men we have."

Mr. Lee. ^' Then excuse me for a minute,
whilst I exchange a few words with this
lady."

I drew Nelly away, whilst the mate, after
looking over' the side to see that his boat
was safe, went aft and talked to Matthews.

*you have heard his offer, Nelly," said
I. '* Tell me now, my darling, will you go
aboard that ship? "

' "Without you ? Certainly not, Will. ' '

*let us consider both sides before we
resolve," I said. "First, and for myself.

I shall stick to the brig and carry her, if I
can, to Valparaiso. That I've resolved
upon. If I can get help on the road, so
much the better ; but I mean that this brig
shall repay me for some of the trouble I
have had in her and through her. But that
concerns me "

*^ Will," she interrupted, ^' I do not know
why you should go on arguing. If you mean
to stop in the brig, is not that enough ?
Should not that decide me ? "

*'No. I am willing to endure another
spell of hard work, for the sake of saving
the brig. But that is no reason why you
should stay aboard. Yonder ship will make
a safer home than this, and will land you
at San Francisco, where the English consul
will look after you until I can join sou."

However, although I did nol stop at this,
but pointed out the risks the brig might
yet encounter, the long time it might
take us to fetch Valparaiso, etc., whilst in
the ship she would be as safe as one can
hope to be at sea, and have the companionship
of one of her own sex — I say, altb.ougli
I continued reasoning with her, I saw by

the expression in her face that she barely
listened to me for impatience, and that
every now and again she would give her
head an eager shake.

"I see you are determined not to leave
the brig, Nell."

'' Of course not, without you. How could
you have the heart to try to persuade
me?"

I went over to the mate and told him
that I had conferred with the lady, and that
she preferred to remain with me in the brig.
As for myself, it was my intention to navigate
the brig to Valparaiso. She was a
smart vessel ; and though it was hard work
for two men to work her, yet it was to be
done, as our being where we were proved.

He slightly smiled when I gave him
Nelly's decision, and said, ^' She has plenty
of pluck, and I hope you'll make a speedy
end of your voyage. I'm sorry we can't
give you the help you want."

I turned to Matthews and told him the
mate's offer, intending, if he decided upon
quitting the brig, to ask for a volunteer
in exchange ; for I had it in my power to

offer a reward that was pretty sure to find
me a substitute for Matthews ; but on his
learning Nelly's and my decision, he immediately
said he would stop with us and
take his chance, and I believe, by the way
he said this, that he never thought of
salvage nor of obtaining any reward for
his services in agreeing to stop, but that
he was wholly influenced by his liking for
Nelly and me, and by his sailorly instinct
of sticking to old shipmates in trouble.

^' As we can't help you as you wish," said
the mate, ^'is there any other assistance we
can render you ? ' '

I am without a sextant," I replied, ^' and
have no meridian time, being utterly dependent
on dead reckoning, which I fear
may lead me into a bother, as my point of
departure was a guess, to start with. If
you have a spare sextant you can sell me,
and will time one of my chronometers, I
shall be immensely grateful."

He reflected, and answered, ^^I think it
can be managed. I rather think the second
mate's got a sextant — one of a pair, which
he might be willing to let you have. If

you'll put your chronometer into the boat,
I'll see what can be done."

I thanked him, and said, *' I see yoii have
a lady aboard? "

^' The captain's wife," he answered.

On this I explained that Nelly had lost
all her clothes in the Waldershare, and
begged him to mention this to the captain's
lady, and ask her if she could spare a small
parcel of linen — I should be glad to pay any
price she might ask.

** Very well," said he, bluffly. " Anything
more?"

I told him that was all. Whereupon he
called to his men to haul the boat alongside,
asking me at the same time if I would
accompany him. I answered that I did not
like to leave the brig in a sea-way with only
one man on board ; and, without another
word, he dropped into the boat, taking with
him one of my chronometers.

When he was gone, I went over to
Matthews and shook him very heartily by
the hand, thanking him for sticking to me.
*' We may meet with some rough work,"
said I, " or it may turn out pleasant sailing ;

but come what will, Matthews, I shall
always gratefully remember your loyalty,
and I'll take care, when we get to Valparaiso,
that the end of your handkerchief is tasselled
with dollars."

He replied that he was quite content to
remain with me. *' We've seen some hard
times, sir — you and me and the lady — and
I should be a poor creature to rat from the
hooker that's twice saved my life."

I stood with Nelly looking at the boat
dancing over the waters, and the big ship
beyond standing as solid as a church, with
the bright seas leaping around her, her fore
and aft canvas swelling, and of a brilliant
whiteness, with an arching of tender shadow
along the weather leeches, whilst the maintopsail
lay flat against the mast. Aft, her
people were examining us with glasses, and
forward were gathered her crew, the sight
of Nelly at the wheel having, no doubt,
excited great curiosity and interest among
them. I was greatly anxious that the
boat should return with a sextant, for with
such an instrument on board I should
feel comparatively strong ; but my anxiety

did not prevent me from squeezing my
sweetheart's hand, and owning, now that
her resolution was taken, that I never
wanted her to leave me ; that I should
have been miserable had she left me ; that
I never believed she would wish to go.
*this does not prove that my love is
unselfish, like yours," said I; "and yet,
when I come to look at that ship and think
of you in her, alone among strangers,
journeying to a distant port, with a prospect
of many weeks elapsing before we could
meet again, if ever we did meet, I don't
believe, even if you had resolved to leave
me, that I should have let you go. How
do I know what sort of a man the captain
is ? and his wife ? and how they would
feed you ? — what sort of a cabin you would
have? Here, bad as it is, we know the
worst, in that way."

*rand there is something more, "Will,"
said she, with her quiet smile, pressing my
hand. " What would have been our thoughts
as the vessels separated ? It was out of the
question, dear, and so let us say no more
about it."

In six minutes' time the boat reached
the ship, and the mate jumped aboard. He
got on the poop and conversed with a red-bearded
man, whom I took to be the captain,
who presently called the woman to him,
and there they stood talking and looking
our way. After a bit, they all three quitted
the poop, and I saw the man in the boat
hand up my chronometer. This made me
pretty sure they would time my chronometer,
though it would be of no use without a
sextant ; and as the mate's civility and good
feeling had been very remarkable, I went
into the cabin and brought out a box of
tobacco, a dozen of the wine, a couple
of meerschaum pipes, and an opera-glass,
which I set upon the table, designing them
as gifts to the master, his wife, and the
mate of the ship ; and at the same time I
made a minute of the articles, so that they
should have a place in the salvage account.

On returning to the deck, I found the
boat in the act of shoving off, and in a few
minutes she came sweeping alongside, and
the mate again stepped aboard.

**I have brought you what you want,"

said he, with a good-natured smile, and he
called to the men to hand the things up.
The first thing he gave me was a sextant,
of an old-fashioned make, but bright and
in good condition. He then gave me my
chronometer, timed to the Greenwich meridian
by the captain's chronometers, a
parcel of linen for Nelly, and a nautical
almanac.

I asked him the lady's and second mate's
charges for the linen and sextant.

^'I am ashamed," said he, ''to have to
behave like a showman to a man in your
plight ; but the second mate's a Scotchman,
and the captain's wife," said he, looking
behind him to make sure that none of his
men were on deck, '' would sell her teeth
for money, if their yellowness were no
hindrance to a market. The second mate
says he couldn't part with that sextant for
less than fifteen shillings, because it belonged
to his father — though I know that
to be a lie, as his father was a Thames
waterman, and had probably never seen
such a thing as a sextant in all his life.
Mrs. Teddy, the skipper's wife, asks a

guinea for the linen, although I dare say
she wouldn't get half a crown for it ashore."

I was both amused by and pleased with
his embarrassment, that was a genuine
nautical touch of nature, and begged him
to believe that both the sextant and linen
were so valuable to me I should have been
glad to pay ten times what was asked. I
then took him into the cabin, and made him
drink a tumbler of wine, and showing him
the presents on the table, asked his acceptance
of one of the pipes and the box of
tobacco, and to give the other pipe and
the wine to the captain, and the opera-glasses
to Mrs. Teddy. ^'What!" cried
he, ^^ after charging a poor shipwrecked
lady a guinea for half a crown's worth of
togs ! " However, he thanked me cordially
for my gifts, and I then brought him the
money for the linen and sextant.

'there," said he, producing a piece of
paper, " is the latitude and longitude at
noon to-day."

I looked at it, and found they made it
94^ 19' W. and 33° 60' S. '' Dash me if my
calculations are so very much out, after

all !" I cried, with a rather justifiable feeling
of pride. And indeed, as I afterwards discovered,
my guess at the position of the
island was only thirteen miles out — that is,
calculating back to it by my dead reckoning.

A couple of men were called up out of the
boat to hand down my presents, and after
giving the crew a bumper of grog all round,
I shook hands with the mate, who respectfully
saluted Nelly and dropped into his boat.
I waited until he was aboard his own ship
and the boat hoisted before filling, and they
then hoisted the ensign and dipped it thrice
a compliment I returned — as not only
meaning to say farewell, but as expressing
thanks for my gifts. No sooner did they
swing their main yards than the whole of
the crew sprang into the rigging and raised
a cheer that came down bravely to us. I
waved my hat, and placing Nelly at the
wheel, I, with the help of Matthews, swung
the yards.

It was like getting a rock under weigh to
fill upon that heavily laden ship. They
set the mainsail, and yet she took so much
time in starting that one would have

thought she was tearing at an anchor
astern of her ; whereas no sooner were the
brig's sails full than the little vessel made a
spring, just as though a warp that had held
her back had been let go. She struck a
little sea that was running at her and
smothered her bows in foam, shook herself,
put her nose down to it, and began to
snore along the water like a racing yacht.
Matthews and I boarded the main-tack, and
by the time that sail was set we had the
ship on our weather quarter, where she
showed at her best ; for there she was
almost bow on, all her forward sails ballooning
out towards us, her jibs making beautiful
curves, every sail with a lancing of silver
light along its lee leech, her shrouds standing
like short bars of black iron under her
courses, her main royal floating delicately
on the summit of the tall pile of canvas
with the short staysail yard just above it, and
the flash of the green waters quivering in
her polished jet black bows, out of which
soared her long bowsprit and jibbooms, with
the guys, bobstays, and the rest of the gear
forming straight symmetrical lines as fine

as cobwebs to her martingale, and along her
spritsail yard against the snow-white cotton-like
sails which were as round and hard as
ivory.

Close-hauled as we were, we drew ahead
so rapidly that in half an hour's time we
had her well on the lee quarter, with her
low black hull fining down upon the horizon,
and "her sails stretching with exquisite
daintiness of outline against the soft blue
western sky ; but by this time we had grown
weary of watching and talking of her, and
besides, our appetites had become very sharp,
for it was past three o'clock, and we had
tasted nothing since breakfast. I therefore
took the wheel, that Matthews might help
Nelly to get some dinner.

My spirits were more buoyant now thai
they had been for many a long hour. With
a sextant and Greenwich time aboard, and a
tight and swift little vessel under our feet,
I Would not even allow that wee where in any
further distress. It is true that a couple of
men, nay, even another man, would have
been a precious acquisition ; but, as it was
not impossible to sail the brig to Valparaiso

with only two hands to work her, so, seeing
that in all other respects we were well off,
our brig a smart one, water and food plentiful,
and our health and courage high, our
adventure was no longer to frighten me,
the more particularly as I might count upon
a substantial reward at the end of the
journey, and perhaps obtain enough credit
for the exploit to do me professional service.
We made a good dinner, our whole conversation
being about the ship, that was by
this time a mere white speck upon the
running waters down on our lee quarter,
and about the civility of the mate. Moreover,
I found that the clothes which Nelly
had got from the vessel were of a kind she
greatly needed, and such as probably only
a woman would have thought of sending.
Her being equipped, therefore, to her satisfaction
pleased me mightily, for her discomfort
in this particular had troubled mea
great deal more than I have chosen to
say. Whilst we men had found plenty of
clothes in the berths, Nelly had nothing
but what she stood in ; and when she had
come aboard the brig she had been obliged

VOL. 111. U

to let her clothes dry upon her body; so
you may form some idea of the inconvenience
she laboured under as compared
with us ; though beyond once saying to me
that she wished she could find a roll of
linen or calico, that she might make herself
some clothes, she never uttered a murmur
over her discomfort.

I relate these things without scruple, for
they are among the stern facts of shipwreck.

As to her dress, it was a strong new
merino, and promised to outlast her demands
upon it, and to look well then ; for
she had made a sort of canvas apron, which
she wore over the dress, and which completely
protected it from the grime of the
galley and the soiling of the ropes she had
sometimes hauled upon with me, God bless
her ! The water had not done her boots
much good; but that very afternoon, after
dinner, Matthews, noticing that one of her
boots gaped at the toes, offered to mend
it for her, and, taking it into the carpenter's
berth, the fellow returned with it in about
twenty minutes neatly repaired and calked,
and then took the other and stitched it here

and there where it showed a weakness ; so
that if her boots were not as handsome as
they were when she first bought them, they
were quite as strong.

It was our fortune that my surmise that
this breeze would settle into the southeast
trades proved true ; for shortly after
sunset that evening the wind veered into
that quarter, and the appearance of the
clouds convinced me that we had got the
trades. There is no mistaking these winds,
for they bring up a kind of clouds that is
peculiar to them, of a scud-like character,
not very numerous, and sweeping across the
sky with great regularity. As a rule, these
winds do not extend below the parallel ot
30° in the Pacific, but I have known them
to be taken as low as 35°. Although we
were braced sharp up, these trades would
not allow us to hold as weatherly a course
as I should have liked; yet they were of
prodigious value to men in our position,
by their promise of steadiness and freedom
from shifts, and, I may even say, gales.
Whilst they held we should have nothings
to do but to go on sailing, with an occasional

standing by the topsail halliards should it
breeze up. We might therefore count upon
getting our rest, which was of immense
consequence to us, whilst every hour was
sweeping us nearer and nearer to Valparaiso.

For three days nothing whatever happened
to break the monotony of our lives.
We had settled into a regular habit of
discipline ; Matthews and I keeping watch
and watch during the night, and remaining
on deck during the day, whilst Nelly provided
our meals, and now and again took
a turn at the wheel.

From dawn to sunset we had our ensign
flying half-mast and jack down, and through
the night we kept the green lantern hoisted
at the masthead ; for I wanted help, though,
as I have just said, the idea of wanting it
did not terrify me ; and the next vessel we
sighted might be able to lend me the assistance
we required.

The weather remained bright and fine,
the moon as clear and clean as silver, and
the sun hot, but tempered by the strong
sweet wind and the passage of the flying
clouds, and the sea a sparkling blue, rich

i

with the long lines of glittering froth, wliicli
broke and faded with the run of the joyous
waters. In these three days we sighted
but one vessel, a small schooner dead away
to windward, and standing to the westward.
But the speed of the brig was quite beyond
my expectation. On Wednesday, the day
after we had spoken the Eagle, our position,
by observation, was 91' 12' W., 33 15' S. ;
on Thursday, 88° W. and 33° 2' S. ; and on
Friday, 84° 50' W. and 29 28' S. If these
runs were not equal to steam, they were in
every way remarkable as having been performed
by a small brig close-hauled, with
a single reef in her fore-topsail and her topgallant
and royal yards on deck.

It was Friday, and I had finished working-out
my observations in the cabin, and went
forward to the galley, where Nelly was
occupied, to tell her, as was my custom, the
progress we had made in the twenty-four
hours. The breeze was still blowing as
steadily as it had blown from the first day
of its springing up ; and, with the fore and
main bowlines hauled well forward, the
tacks of the courses standing as stiff as

handspikes, the yards braced so sharp up
that the rigging was as taut under the
pressure of them as the weather shrouds,
whilst the big jib was tearing at its sheet
as if it would uproot the solid wood to which
it was belayed, and not a rope but what
was humming like a harp-string under the
sweeping hand of the wind, the brig was
smoking through it as if an ocean steamer
had got her in tow, plunging sometimes
80 as to bury her martingale, and raising
such a haze about her forecastle that the
rainbow arched in it seemed as fixed a
thing as the curving foot of the foresail.

I stood talking to Nelly whilst she bustled
about the galley, making a pretty picture
indeed, with her white arms bared nearly
to the elbows, her hair gilded with the sunshine
that streamed through the galley door,
lier dress tucked up under her quaint canvas
apron, and a flush on her delicate cheeks
that made her eyes as bright as diamonds.

I told her how I remembered coming into
this galley on the first morning after I had
been left in the brig and overhauling the
place for something to eat, and finding

some pieces of meat in one of the coppers ;
and this set us talking of the number of
things which had happened since that time.

^' 1 have something on my mind to tell
you, Nelly," said I, *that has been there —
well, I may say, almost since the day I
found you in the W alder share' s cuddy.
Don't open your eyes at me, my darling.
It's only this — that had the Waldersliare
lived to reach Callao, I should have asked
you to marry me in that place ; but, since
our destination has been changed, I mean
well, I will ask you to marry me at
Valparaiso."

She coloured up a little, but looked me
very steadily in the face.

Had I foreseen how this voyage was
to terminate," said she, ^^I should have
asked you to marry me before we left
Burmarsh. However, dear, we could not
help these adventures."

^' No, nor need we regret them, my
darling. But all the same, Nell, we will
leave Valparaiso as husband and wife."

^'I am quite willing," said she, coming
up to me and putting her head on my

shoulder; ^'that is, if God permits us to
reach Valparaiso."

At that moment Matthews hailed me
from the wheel. I put my head out of the
galley door and asked him what was the
matter.

*^ There's a sail right ahead of us, sir,"
he answered.

I fetched the glass, and, going to T\dnd-
ward, saw a white smudge upon the horizon
in a line with our jibboom end. So little
was visible of her that I could neither make
out her rig nor which way she was heading.
I returned to Nelly, and saw that she had
been crying.

^^Why, Nell!"

^' Don't be angry. Will," said she, with
a tremulous smile.

'angry with 2jou^ my darling! If I
have made you cry, I shall be angry with
myself. ' '

She kissed me, and said, 'there is
nothing that need make you angry. I
could not help crying to think of our being
married — I mean, after what we have gone
through — no, it is not that. Oh, my darling !

I don't know wliy I cried — I don't know
why I cried! " and she cried again.

^^'11 tell you what it is, Nell," said I,
clasping her in my arms. ^' Eoiigh as your
late experiences have been, the sea hasn't
yet cm^ed you of being a woman ; and there
never yet was a woman who could talk of
marriage without tears." And so I found
her a reason for crying.

We dined, as usual, in our maritime
fashion on deck, and this day our dinner
was a piece of salt junk, a bit of real beef — ■
not the pickled hunks of mahogany which
are shipped for sailors' eating out of London
by the rascally purveyors, some of whom
have been aldermen in their day. I had
my eye on the sail ahead all the time, and,
having discovered that she was going our
way, forbore bothering with the glass until
her hull was above water, and then, taking
another squint, I found that she was a small
fore and aft rigged vessel, with three square
yards on her foremast — a brigantine as I
might suppose, but she had no head sail set.

We were coming up with her very fast ;
indeed, so fast that, beyond the interest

of speaking and passing her, I found no
excitement in the chase, for I supposed her
to be a small, heavily-laden vessel from
Australia or the South Sea Islands, bound,
no doubt, to Valparaiso, and, as is usual
with such vessels, with no more hands
aboard of her than she needed. We held
on in this \Yay for an hour, at the expiration
of which time she was about five miles ahead
of us.

I was steering the brig, when Matthews,
who had been examining the sail through
the glass, turned and said, ^^ I'm thinking
yonder craft's a Government boat, Mr. Lee.
She looks to me like a steamer, though
there's no catching sight of her funnel.
No merchantman of her size is ever so
heavily sparred. Besides, she ain't lofty
enough for a sailing vessel; and I reckon
she can't have much canvas on her to let
us overhaul her in this fashion. And see
how she rolls, Mr. Lee."

Hand us over the glass, Matthews, and
catch hold here," said I.

I had another good look at her, and began
to think that Matthews was rio-ht. She was

low in the water, but with a great breadth
of beam ; her spars were short and heaves
and she rolled like a collier. I watched
her anxiously, for the difference between a
Government steamer and a merchantman
meant a great deal to me.

At last I caught sight of the whip at the
mainmast head, and then I became as excited
as I had before been apathetic. Lie,
at all events, as a Government boat would
have hands enough aboard, and could not,
with any show of reason, excuse herself
from lending me the assistance I required.
In order that she might see our signal, I
slackened away the flag halliards until the
ensign blew clear of the cover of the topgallant
rigging, and scarcely had I done
this when, lo ! the vessel ahead hoisted the
glorious red cross of St. George. It was
clear to me at the same time that they also
shortened sail, though her stern being on
a line with us, it was impossible to see what
was doing aboard of her ; but we crept up
hand over fist until, in less than twenty
minutes, I could see the sparkle of the
metal buttons on the uniforms aft.

*ran English gunboat!" I cried; and
Matthews shouted " Hurrah ! " in a voice that
recalled poor Sinnet's. ^' See ! " I shouted,
^^tbey are luffing to shake her. We'll goto
leeward of them and heave to. Quick,
Nelly ; take the wheel and let the brig go as
she is. Jump forward, Matthews, and let go
the main-tack. Bear a hand ! we shall be
ahead of her ! " And we again repeated the
manoeuvre we had executed when we hove
to abreast of the Eagle. They had stopped
their vessel's way, and when we were
within two ships' length of her we backed
our topsail and lay to within easy talking
distance.

She was an English gunboat of about one
mundi-ed and eighty tons, a heavy, lumping
craft of her size, brigantine-rigged, and
carrying four guns. She rolled in such a
manner as to slope her deck right over tous,
so that one could almost have seen down
her companion, and then back again until
half her dullish copper was out of water.
There were several men in uniform aft, with
the rings denoting their grades round the
sleeve-cuffs, and forward she was full of

Line-jackets, who watched ns with their
arms folded, and with that indescribable air
of jaunty coolness that is only to be acquired
by pocketing Government wages. She had
all the remarkable trim, solidity, and cleanliness
of the English man-of-war : her brass-work
shone like fire, her decks were sand-white,
her heavy guns gave a formidable
character to her massively built hull, her
rigging might have served for a six-hundredth
ship, and it was a treat to look at the
way in which her square canvas was furled.

The commander, standing a little apart
from the other officers, hailed me through a
speaking-trumpet.

*brig ahoy!"

'' Hilloo ! ''

*' Why is your ensign half-masted ? "

'' We're in distress. We've only two
hands to work the brig."

"■ Where are you bound, and where are
you from ? ' '

We're from an island, not charter, in
98^ W and 33" S., and we're bound to
Valparaiso."

The answer to the question where 1 was

from puzzled my man, who took the trumpet
from his mouth and looked for some moments
at the brig, as though he supposed
I was quizzing him.

** Where do you say you're fi^om ? " he
presently bawled again.

I repeated the answer I had given him.

i'll send a boat aboard of you," he
shouted ; and in a moment I heard the
chirrup of a boatswain's pipe. A dozen hands
ran aft. With great smartness six men and
a sub-lieutenant were seated in one of the
port quarter-boats, and pulling towards the
brig. I had just time to unship the gangway
when the boat was alongside, and a
man of about forty years of age, with a red
smooth face, stepped over the side.

There is no seafaring man in existence
who could have a warmer admiration for
the British navy than I. I know its best
history by heart. I heartily admire its
discipline, seamanship and pluck, and I never
come across an English man-of-war without
a swelling of the heart and a glad pride to
feel that I am the countryman of the hearts
of oak in her. Owning, therefore, to these

honourable sentiments, may I be allowed to
ask why the British naval officer makes a rule
of treating the British merchant officer with
the utmost possible contempt, superciliousness,
and arrogance ? Is he aware that the
merchant skipper and the merchant mate
are, with rare exceptions, fine practical seamen,
of great and varied experience, and
qualified in a heap of ways to show the
road to the naval officer ? that to them are
committed trusts of human life and property
beyond anything most naval officers can
dream of ? that, in a word, the only difference
between the naval and the merchant
officer is, one receives Government pay, and
has a large, well disciplined crew and a
powerful, well-found vessel at his disposal,
whilst the other receives wages from private
owners, and has to depend exclusively upon
his own judgment, skill, and experience to
bring his ill-found ship and the ragamuffins
who fill his forecastle safely into port ?

When my British gunboat sub-lieutenant
did me the honour to step aboard the little
brig, he convulsively jerked his thumb down
at his waistcoat as an apology for touching

his hat, and in a very sharp, contemptuous
manner asked me what I meant by saying
I hailed from an island.

Upon which I related my story to him.

'^ I should like to see the brig's papers,"
said he.

I requested him to step into the cabin,
and placed the papers before him. He
looked over them, and then desired that
I would raise one of the main hatch
gratings.

*that you can do yourself, sh," said I.
^' I have but one man, and he is at the
wheel; " for I had taken care to send Matthews
aft when the brig was hove to, as I
did not choose that Nelly should be stared
at. Thereupon he called to some of his
men to come aboard, who opened the hatch
for him. He looked down, and saw that
the hold was full of timber.

That'll do," said he. '' And now
Mr. "

^^Lee."

*^ What help do you require ? "

**I should be glad of some men to assist
me in working the brig to Valparaiso. "

'' Four men should serve your turn ? "
said he, looking aloft.

*^ Four men will do very well," I replied.

Without another word he went over the
side into the boat.

The annoyance that this man's behaviour
gave me was so far wholesome, that it
repressed the extravagance of the happiness
I should have felt at my piece of good
fortune in tumbling across a gunboat, and
getting from her the help which probably
no other vessel than a man-of-war could
have furnished to me. The boat was not
four minutes in getting alongside her own
ship ; and when the sub-lieutenant got on
deck, some confabulation went on between
him and the commander and the lieutenants
the lieutenant dived and brought
up a chart, over which they grouped their
heads. The vessel made a pretty sight as
she lay rolling in the water, that flashed
up all green alongside of her, though beyond
and away to the horizon it was as blue as
the sky. Now and again she would pitch,
so as to jump two-thirds of her screw out
of water.

VOL. III. X

Presently I heard the boatswain's pipe
again ; some other hands got into the boat,
and some of her former crew left her ; and
instead of my uncouth friend, the lieutenant
squatted himself in the stern-sheets, and
the boat, containing ten men and the lieutenant
— enough to carry a French frigate !
swept under the stern of the brig and
hooked on.

I stood at the gangway to receive the
fresh arrival, who proved a gentlemanly
looking man, strongly sunburnt, with a pleasant,
open face, and dark, handsome eyes.

'you have charge of this brig, I presume
? " said he to me, first touching his cap
in a ship shape manner, and raising it as he
looked towards Nelly.

^'I have," I replied, feeling less aggressively
disposed by the accost and
manner of the man, whose condescension,
though marked enough, wanted the impudence
of the sub-lieutenant's.

*'I have brought you four men," said
he, 'who will help you to work this brig
to Valparaiso, to which port yonder vessel,
which is her Majesty's gunboat , is

also bound. We shall endeavour to keep
you company ; but my instructions are, that
you are not bound to keep by us if you find
you can beat us when we are under steam,
which will be the case shortly."

He went to the gangway and called, and
immediately eight able-bodied, powerful
seamen sprang on deck. ' They formed
themselves into a line, and the lieutenant
calling out their names, four of them
stepped out.

^' Those are your men, sir," said he.

I looked at them, and thought it would
be a good job if the Merchant Service
numbered a few such men in its fore-castles.
Their hammocks and bags were
passed up out of the boat and taken forward.
Everything was done quickly and quietly.

*' Now," said the lieutenant, looking aloft,
'' whilst my boat's crew are aboard, can
they be made useful to you? I see you
have but a stump of a topmast forward, and
your jibboom doesn't look over lively. If
you have a whole topmast knocking about'*
said he, casting his eyes on the spare-boon] s,
'* we'll have it up for you in a few minutes."

However, there was no spar that would
answer for a topmost, nor could we have
contrived a better jibboom ; but I told him
I should be glad if his men would cross the
top-gallant and royal yards and get the gear
rove. He spoke to one of his crew, and
then, going to the gangway, told one of the
two men who were tossing in the boat
alongside to hand him up the chart.

^^ Have you any objection," he asked, '^ to
point out to me where your island is ? "

I led him into the cabin, where I found
Nelly standing at the table. She was going
away, but he politely begged that she would
not leave on his account, and entered, with
a well-bred air, into a short conversation
with her. He expressed his sympathy with
her for the rough trials she had undergone,
and congratulated her upon her escape and
the prospect of a speedy release from the
brig. He was much impressed, as indeed
he could hardly fail to be, by Nelly's beauty
and her self-possessed, lady-like manner.
Her presence and the answers she made
to his questions gave him a better notion
of what we had gone through than any

story I could have related, and his manner
altered amazingly. He seemed to forget
his uniform, or rather, shall I say, he seemed
to remember what was due to it. He addressed
me politely, without any assumption
of superiority; asked many questions, and
expressed himself astonished and touched
by the variety and severity of our adventures.
He drank some wine that Nelly put
upon the table, and then, opening the chart,
asked me to pencil-mark the spot where I
reckoned the island to be, saying that in all
probability they would be sent to survey
it. I gave him the latitude and longitude
of it according to my reckonings, explaining
that I had had no other data to go upon than
the observations taken aboard the Walters
He thanked me, rolled up the chart,
shook hands with Nelly, and went on deck,
where I found that his men had crossed the
yards, and were waiting for further instructions.
There was nothing more to be done,
so he ordered them into the boat, and
away he went with his six men, leaving me
four.

Whether they had banked their hires or

not aboard the gunboat I could not tell,
but it was certain that she was under sail
only when we overhauled her ; but they
were smoking up now, and the moment her
boat was at the davits, some men sprang
aloft and loosed the square-sails, and in a
trice she was covered with canvas.

I waited until she had gathered way, and,
placing one of the new crew at the wheel
in order that Matthews might facilitate the
work of the others by showing them where
the gear led, I ordered the mainland to be
swung. In an instant the brig bit the
water, and the spray began to fly. "Lay
aloft and loose the top-gallant sail ! " I sung
out. Up sprang one of the men-of-war's
men hand over hand. Used to the slow
sprawling of the merchant sailor, I was
delighted to witness this specimen of active
smartness. Before he had been aloft a
minute the sail was flapping and he was
bawling out, 'sheet home!" 'overhaul
your clew lines ! " I shouted, and up went
the yard. It was a new thing for me to see
a top-gallant sail set over my topsail ; but
it was as much sail as the brig wanted, and

away sped the little vessel, with the foam
standing as high as her hawse-pipes.

I had let the gunboat have the start
of lis, hut we began to pass her as though
she were a buoy. The smoke poured in a
dense volume out of her funnel, and when
she cocked up her stern, I could see the
screw languidly revolving ; so it was plain
she had steam in her boilers, but not much.

I'm afraid," I said to the man who was
steering, '^ that she will have to give us the
end of her tow-rope if she wants us to keep
her company."

She stands no chance with this brig,
sir," he answered, smiling. " She wants a
gale of wind to go."

It would have made any sailor laugh
to see how she wobbled and bobbed and
splashed, jerking the water away from her
fat coppered bows like a bucket dropped
overboard, not peeling it out to leeward asa
sharp-stemmed vessel does; and yet she
was so broad that I never noticed that
she shipped a drop of spray, although she
rolled so heavily that, had her yards been
squared, you might have touched the water

from the end of her fore-topmast stun'sail
boom end. As we surged abreast of her
I sprang on to the weather bulwarks, and
hailed her to know if I should shorten sail
so as to keep by her. But the answer came
back, ^^ No ; let her go as she will. We shall
have our pressure up presently, and then
we'll see."

In another minute we were ahead of her,
clear of her smoke, and in half an hour's
time she was two miles dead astern, rolling
like a mast-buoy, although by that time she
would have had her screw revolving as fast
as it would go. An hour before sunset she
was out of sight, and the little brig was
tearing across the sea with the main royal
on her, fogged with spray as far aft as the
gangway, with the trade-clouds sailing
bravely overhead, and the red light of the
sun flashing crimson in the streaming forecastle,
and in the water that was roaring in
little cataracts through the scuppers.

From this point my log-book gives meno

further adventures. It is merely a
record of fine weather, strong, steady
breezes, and rapid progress. Indeed, with
a smart brig under me, and five able fellows
to man her, it would have been a sorry
business indeed if I had not brought the
Morning Star to Valparaiso without misadventure.


We reached that port in nine days and
five hours, from the time of our quitting the
island, having carried our top-gallant sail
the whole way, and meeting with but one
calm, when we were a day's sail from the
land, that lasted three hours, and was
followed by a strong south-westerly breeze.

On bringing up in the spacious bay,
flanked by its magnificent but treeless
mountains, with the Almendral in the east,
and the irregular scattering of houses along
the beach, I immediately went ashore,
taking the brig's papers with me, and called
upon the consul, to whom I related the
particulars of my voyage. He was well
acquainted with the vessel's consignees,
one of whom, he said, was a relative of the
owners, and, he believed, the next of kin;

SO that if, as it was probable, the captain
and mate of the Morning Star were drowned,
this gentleman would claim the brig. He
promised to call with me upon the consignees
next day, and meanwhile, having
listened to what I had to tell him about
Nelly with great interest, he asked my
permission to accompany me on board the
brig. We went together, and I introduced
him to Nelly, and after complimenting
her in the most handsome manner on the
courage and fortitude she had displayed
throughout her trials, he insisted that she
should take up her residence whilst we
remained at Valparaiso at his house, and
promised her a hearty welcome from his
wife. He also insisted upon my sharing
his hospitality, and during the three weeks
we remained at Valparaiso we made his
house our home.

But he did me a greater service even
than this; for he stood out for a larger
sum from the consignees than they were
willing to give, and obtained as salvage
on the cargo and vessel seven hundred
pounds for me, and two hundred and thirty

pounds for Matthews, besides substantial
presents in money for the four men-of-war's
men, who, it seems, might take gifts,
though they were prohibited from claiming
salvage.

With this money I secured a berth for
myself and Nelly on board a fine ship, of one
thousand one hundred tons, bound direct to
Liverpool; but it would be three weeks
before she sailed, so we had plenty of leisure
not only to make the purchases we stood in
need of, to examine the country, to receive
and make visits, to venture an excursion to
Santiago, which is eighty-five miles distant
from Valparaiso, but to celebrate the most
momentous act of our lives. In a word,
Nelly and I were married.

The gunboat that had assisted us with
her men arrived at Valparaiso four days
after we had dropped anchor in the bay. She
was in the bay on the day of our marriage,
and among the guests invited by the consul
to the entertainment he generously provided
on that occasion, were the commander of
the gunboat, the lieutenant, and the sub-lieutenant.


This day gives me the brightest memory
of my life ; and yet I made a fool of myself
too, for when I got up to retm-n thanks for
myself and Nelly, and spoke of what we had
gone through, and why she had accompanied
me in the Walclersliare^ and the loss of my
old shipmates, and the great and unexampled
kindness we had met with from the consul
and his wife, I fairly broke down. Something
marvellously resembling a tear hopped over
my cheek like a parched pea on to the table,
and I had to belay my eloquence for a spell,
though all hands took care to cheer me at
the top of their voices, and the lustiest
cheer of them all was the sub-lieutenant's.

Matthews hung about Valparaiso for ten
days, and I saw him frequently ; then he
disappeared, and I have never seen nor heard
of him since.

I could wdsli that God had permitted me
to complete this record of many great
mercies shown, by numbering among those
who were saved from the loss of the Walters
my little genial, kindly messmate,
Thomas. The world is a big one, the sea is
armful of strange chances, and it may be

yet my fortune to meet him in the flesh.
But I own that I think of him as a have
man gone to his account ; and having tasted
myself somewhat freely of the horrors of
shipwreck, and knowing what a boat-load of
people without food or water, leagues and
leagues out at sea, means, I may be excused
for laying down my pen and addressing
myself to happier contemplations.

THE END.

LONDON : riirNTED ItY WII.MAM TI-owes AND SONS, Limited,
BTAMFO.tD Street AND Curling Cross.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, i88, Fled Street London ,
April, iso.

a Selection from tie list of iiooh<:^

PUBLISHED BY

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

A

ALPHABETICAL LIST.

CLASSIFIED Educational Catalogue of WorJzs published
in Great Britain. Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Second Edition,
revised and corrected to Christmas, 1879, about
redmond). See " The Story of an Honest Man."

About Some Fellows. By an Eton Boy, Author of *'A Day
of my Life." Cloth limp, square imo, 2s. 6d.

Adventures of Captain Ago. A Phoenician's Explorations
1000 years B.C. By Leon Cahun. Numerous Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 'js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^.

Adventures of a Young Naturalist. By Lucien Biart, with
117 beautiful Illustrations on Wood. Edited and adapted by Parkkk
GiLLMORE, Post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges. New Edition, ']s. 6d.

Afghan Knife the). A Novel. By Robert Armytage
Sterndale, Author of *' Sconce." Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6.r.

Afghanistan and the Afghans. Being a Brief Review of the
History of the Country, and Account of its People. By 11. W.
Belle, C.S.I. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j-.

elliott louisa M.) Jimmy s Cruise in the " Pinafore." With 9
Illustrations. Second Edition. Small post 8vo, cloth gilt, 3.C 6./.

Aunt Jo's Scrap-Bag. Square imo, 2s. 6d.

(Rose Library, is.)

Little Men : Life at Plumfield with Jds Boys. Small

postSvo, cloth, gilt edges, 3j-. 6d. (Rose Library, Double vol. 2.r. )

Little Women, i vol., cloth, gilt edges, ^s. dd. (Rose

Library, 2 vols., is. each.)

Alcott louisa M.) Old-fashioned Girl. Best Edition, small
post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, y. 6d. (Rose Library, 2s.)

Work and Beginning Again. A Story of Experience.

Experience, i vol., small post 8vo, cloth extra, ds. Several Illustrations.
(Rose Library, 2 vols., \s. each.)

Shawl Straps. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 35. dd.

Eight Cousins ; or, the Aunt Hill. Small post 8vo,

with Illustrations, 3^-. 6d.

The Rose in Bloom. Small post 8vo, cloth extra,

3 (,d.

Silver Pitchers. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 35. 6i.

Under the Lilacs. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, ^s.

Jack and yUl. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

"Miss Alcott's stories are thoroughly healthy, full of racy fun and humour . . ,
exceedingly entertaining We can recommend the ' Ei,:;ht Cousins. "" —
AtheiLaiiin.

Alpine Ascents and Adventures ; or. Rock and Snoiv Sketches.

By H. ScHUTZ Wilson, of the Alpine Club. With Illustrations by

Whimper and Marcus Stone. Crown 8vo, vos. 6d. 2nd Edition.
Andersen {JIa?is Christian) Fairy Tales. With Illustrations in

Colours by E. V. B. Royal 4to, cloth, 25^-.
Animals Painted by Themselves. Adapted from the French of

Balzac, Georges Sands, &c., with 200 Illustrations by Granville.

Svo, cloth extra, gilt, lOs. dd.

Art Education. See " Illustrated Text Books."

Art in the Mountains : The Story of the Passion Play. By

Henry Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Breton

Folk," &c. With numerous Illustrations, and an Appendix for

Travellers, giving the Expenses of the Journey, Cost of Living, Routes

from England, &c Map, and Programme for 1880. 4to, cloth, ioj-. 6d.

Of the many previous accounts of the play, none, we are disposed to think,

recalls that edifying and impressive spectacle with the same clearness and

vividness as Mr. Blackburn's volume." — Guardian.

He writes in excellent taste, and is interesting from the first page to the
last." — Saturday Review.

Art of Reading Aloud the) in Pulpit Lecture Room, or Private
Reunions. By G. Vandenhoff, M. A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Art Treasures in the South Kensington Museum. Published,
with the sanction of the Science and Art Department, in Monthly
Parts, each containing 8 Plates, price is. In this series are included
representations of Decorative Art of all countries and all times from
objects in the South Kensington Museum, under the following classes: —

Sculpture : Works in Marble, Ivory, and Terra-Cotta.

Bronzes : Statuettes, Medallions, Plaques, Coins.

Decorative Painting and Mosaic.

Decorative Furniture and Carved Wood-Work.

Ecclesiastical Metal-work.

Gold and Silversmiths' Work and Jewellery.

Limoges and Oriental Enamels.

Pottery of all Countries.

Glass : Oriental, Venetian, and German.

Ornamental Iron Work : Cutlery.

Textile Fabrics : Embroidery and Lace.

Decorative Bookbinding.

Original Designs for Works of Decorative Art.

Views of the Courts and Galleries of the Museum.

Architectural Decorations of the Museum.
The Plates are carefully printed in atlas 8vo (13 in. by 9 in), on
thick ivory-tinted paper ; and are included in a stout wrapper, ornamented
with a drawing front " The Genoa Doorway " recently acquired
by the Museum.

Asiatic Turkey : beijig a Narrative of a Journey frown Bombay
to the Bosphorus. By Grattan Geary, Editor of the Tivics 0/ India.
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with many Illustrations, and a Route
Map, 28j-.

'Australian Abroad the). Branches from the Main Routes
Round the World. Comprising the Author's Route through Japan,
China, Cochin-china, Malaria, Sunday, Java, Torres Straits, Northern
Australia, New South Wales, South Australia, and New Zealand. By
James Livingston ("J. H." of \\\^ Mellwume Ar-this). With Maps
and numerous Illustrations from Photographs. 2 vols., Svo, 14^-. each.

Autobiography of Sir G. Gilbert Scott, R.A., F.S.A., accredited
by his Son, G. Gilbert Scott. With an Introduction by the
Dean of Chichester, and a Funeral Sermon, preached in Westminster
Abbey, by the Dean of Westminster. Also, Portrait on
steel from the portrait of the Author by G. RICHMOND, R.A. i vol.,
demy Svo, cloth extra, iSj-.

r>AKER lieut-gen. Valentine, Pasha). See "War in
-^ Bulgaria."

THE BAYARD SERIES,

Editc<l by the late J. Hain P'riswell.
Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.
"We cain hardly iin.nginc better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Titles.

Price 2S. Gti. each VoliiiHe, complete in iisglf, Flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk HendhnMcis and Registers.

The Story of the Ch-anther Bayard. By M. De Seville.
De Joinville' s St. Louis, Xing of Fmnce,-

A 2

The Bayard Series continued) .—

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or the Four Leaves. By Edward Laboullaye.

Table Talk aid Opinions of Napoleon Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance. By William Beckford.

The King and the Commons. A Selection of Cavalier and
Puritan Songs. Edited by Prof. Morley.

Words of Wellington : Maxims and Opinions of the Great
Duke.

Dr. Johnson s Tassels, Prince of Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazliifs Round Table. With Biographical Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia, and the Letter to a Friend.
By Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By Robert Buchanan.

Coleridge's Christened, and other Imaginative Poems. "With
Preface by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences, and Maxims. With
Introduction by the Editor, and Essay on Chesterfield by M. DE Ste.-
Veuve, of the French Academy.

Essays in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballantyne.

My Uncle Toby ; his Story and his Friends. Edited by
P. Fitzgerald.

Reflections ; or. Moral Sentences and Maxims of the Duke de
la Rochefoucauld.

Socrates : Memoirs for English Readers from Xenophon Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert Golden Precepts.

A Case containing; 12 Volumes, price ^-is. 6d. ; or the Case separately, price is. SJ.

Beauty and the Beast. An Old Tale retold, with Pictures by
E. V. B. 4to, cloth extra. lo Illustrations in Colours. Is. 6 J.

Bearers' German Copybooks. In six gradations at ^d. each.

Biart (Lucien). See "Adventures of a Young Naturalist,"
"My Rambles in the New World," *the Two Friends," " Involuntary
Voyage."

BickerstetJis IFyDinal Companion to Book of Common Prayer
may be had in various styles and bindings from \d. to 21^-. rice
List and Prospectus loll be forwarded on application.

Bickersteth rev. E. H., M.A.) The Beef and other Parables.

\ vol. , square Svo, with numerous very beautiful Engravings, 2J-. 6^/.

The Clergyman in his Home. Small post Svo, \s.

• The Master's Home Call ; or. Brief Memorials of

Alice Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, ij-.
The Master's Will. A Funeral Sermon preached

on the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, (id. ; cloth gilt, \s.
Thi Shadow of the Bock. A Selection of Religious

Poetry. imo, cloth extra, 2s. dd.

The Shadowed Home and the Light Beyond. 7lh

Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, ^s.
Bidaa. The Authorized Version of the Four Gospels, with the
whole of the magnificent Etchings on Steel, after drawings by M.
BiDA, in 4 vols., appropriately bound in cloth extra, price 3/. 3J-. each.
Also the four volumes in two, bound in the best morocco, by Suitably,
extra gilt edges, 18/. iBj-., half-morocco, 12/. 12^.

Bidaa's Illustration;; of the Gospels of St. Matthew and St. John have already
received here and elsewhere a full recognition of their great m&Tits."—Ti;iies.

Biographies of the Great Artists, Illustrated. This Series is
issued in the form of Handbooks. Each is a Monograph of a Great
Artist, and contains Portraits of the Masters, and as many examples
of their art as can be readily procured. They are Illustrated \\ith from
16 to 20 Full-page Engravings. Cloth, large crown Svo, y. 6d. per
Volume.

Titian. Rubens. Tintoret and Veronese.

Rembrandt. Leonardo. Hog-art.

Raphael. Turner. Michelangelo.

Van Deck and Hals. The Little Masters. Reynolds.

Holbein. Delaroche& Vernet. Gainsborough.

Fig-ure Painters of Holland.

"A deserving Series, based upon recent German publications." — Edinliir^h
Review.

Most thoroughly and tastefully edilcd."—S/rcttj/or.

Black ( Wm.^ Three Feathers. Small post Svo, cloth extra, 6.f.

I^dy Silverdale's Sweetheart, and other Stories, i \()I.,

Small post Svo, 6s.

Jvilmeny : a Novel. Small post Svo, cloth, Cs.

/// Silk Attire. 3r(l Edition, small post Svo, 6s.

A Daughter of Heth. i ili Edition, small post svo, Cs.

Sunrise. 15 Monthly Parts, i^. each.

Blackmore (7?. Z>.) Lorna Doo?ie. loth Edition, cr. 8vo, 6^.

Alice Lorraine. i vol., small post 8vo, 6th Edition, 6s.

Clara Vat/gha?t. Revised Edition, 6s.

Cradock Nowell. New Edition, 6s.

Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Mary Anerley. 3 vols., 31^'. 6d.

Erema ; or, My Father's Sin. With 1 2 Illustrations,

small post 8vo, 6s.

Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons /or Children. By
the Rev. C. Bosanquet. 2nd Edition, small post Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Blue Bafi?ier the); or, The Adventures of a Mussulman, a
Christian, and a Pagan, in the time of the Crusades and Mongol
Conquest. Translated from the French of Leon Cahun. With
Seventy-six Wood Engravings. Imperial l6mo, cloth, gilt edges,
'js. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^-.

Boy's Froissart (The), ^s. 6d. &^ " Froissart."

Brae Janet: A Story for Girls. By Alice Lee. With
Frontispiece by M. Ellen Edwards. Square Svo, cloth extra, 3^-. 6d.

Brave Men in Action. By S. J. Mackenna. Crown Svo,

I 480 pp., cloth, los. 6d.

Brazil : the Amazons, and the Coast. By Herbert EI. Smith.
With 115 Full-page and other Illustrations. Demy Svo, 650 pp., 21s.

Brazil and the Brazilians. By J. C. Fletcher and D. P.
Kidder. 9th Edition, Illustrated, Svo, 2.1s.

Breton Folk : A71 Artistic Tour in Brittany. By Henry
Blackburn, Author of "Artists and Arabs," "Normandy Picturesque,"
&c. With 171 Illustrations by Randolph Caldecott.
Imperial Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 21s.

British Goblins : Welsh Folk-Lore, Fairy Mythology, Legends,
and Traditions. By WiRT Sykes, United States Consul for Wales.
With Illustrations by J. H. THO^L\s. This account of the Fairy
Mythology and Folk-Lore of his Principality is, by permission, dedicated
to H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. Second Edition. Svo, iSj-.

British Philosophers.

Buckle henry Thomas) The Life and Writings of. By Alfred

Henry IIuth. With Portrait. 2 vols., demy Svo.
Burney capt.) See "On Horseback."

Burnham Beeches {LLeath, F. G.). With numerous Illustrations
and a Map. Crown Svo, cloth, gilt edges, 3^. 6d. Second Edition.

"Writing with even more than his usual brilliancy, Mr. Heath here gives the
public an interesting monograph of the splendid old trees. . . . This charming
little work." — Globe.

Butler ( W. F.) The Great Lone Land ; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1869-70. With Illustrations and Map. Fifth and
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, "]$. 6d.

The Wild North Land ; the Story of a Winter Journey

With Dogs across Northern North America. Demy Svo, cloth, with
numerous Woodcuts and a Map, 4th Edition, iSj-. Cr. Svo, 7.r. dd.
Akini-foo : the History of a Failure. Demy Svo, cloth,

2nd Edition, 16^. Also, in crown Svo, ']s. 6d.

r^ A DOG AN lady A.) LI lust rated Games of Patience.

^ Twenty-four Diagrams in Colours, with Descriptive Text. Foolscap
4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3rd Edition, \2s. 6d.

Caldecott {R.). See " Breton Folks'

Carbon Pieces {A Manual of). See Liesegang.

Ceramic An't. See Jacquemart.

Changed Cross the), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.

Chant Book Companion to the Book of Common. Prayer. Consisting
of upwards of 550 Chants for the Daily Psalms and for the
Canticles ; also Kyrie Lessons, and Music for the Hymns in Holy
Communion, cS:c. Compiled and Arranged under the Musical Editorship
of C. J. Vincent, Mus. Bac. Crown Svo, is. 6d. ; Organist's
Edition, cap. 4to, 5^-.

0/ various Editions of Hymnal Companion, Lists iviil be forwarded on
application.

Child of the Cavern the) ; or. Strange Doings Underground.
By juLES Verne, Translated by W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous
Illustrations. Sq. cr. Svo, gilt edges, ']s. 6d. ; cl., plain edges, child's

Play, with 16 Coloured Drawings by E. V. B. Printed
on thick paper, with tints, ^s. 6d.

New. By E. V. B. Similar to the above. See New.

Children's Lives and Low to Preserve Them ; or, The Nursery
Handbook. By W. Lomax, M.D. Crown Svo, cloth, children's

Magazine. Illustrated. See St. Nicholas.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each, Illustrated by
C. W. CorE, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsley, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. TowNsiif.ND,
E. II. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloom field's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L' Allegro.

Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.

Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of Memory.

Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.

Tennyson's May Queen.

Elizabethan Poets.

Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works arc a glorious beatification for a poet." — Athenaeum.

Christ in Song. By Dr. Philip Sciiaff. A New Edition,

Revised, cloth, gilt edges, 6s.
Cobbett {Williavi). A Biography. By Edward Smith. 2

vols,, crown 8vo, 25^.
Comedy the) of Europe, iso— 1890. A retrospective and

prospective Sketch. Crown Svo, 6j.
Conflict of Christianity with Heathenism. By Dr. Gerhard

Unshorn. Edited and Translated from the Third German Edition

by G. C. Smyth and C. J. H. Ropes. Svo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
Continental Tour of Eight Days for Forty-four Shillings. By

a Journey-man. imo, ij'.

"The book is simply A^X\'^\.{\A." —Spectator.

Core {TJie), See "Forbidden Land."

Covert Side Sketches : Thoughts on Hunting, with Different

Packs in Different Countries. By J. Nevitt Pitt (H.II.of the Sporting

Gazette, late of the Field). 2nd Edition. Crown Svo, cloth, vos. dd.
Trade-Land of Arts and Creeds ; or Nothing New under the

Sun. By Charles J. Stone, Barrister-at-law, and late Advocate,

High Courts, Bombay, Svo, pp. 420, cloth, I4J-.
Cripps the Carrier. 3rd Edition, 6s. See Blackmore.

Cruise of H.M.S. " C/iaiienger" (The). By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.
With Route Map and many Illustrations. 6th Edition, demy Svo, cloth,
i8j. Cheap Edition, crown Svo, some of the Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Curious Adventures of a Field Cricket. By Dr. Ernest
Candle. Translated by N. Dangers. With numerous fine
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7^. 6d.

T^ANA {R. H) Two Years before the Mast and Twenty-four
■^■^^ years After. Revised Edition with Notes, 1 imo, 6j.
Daughter (A) of Heth. By W. Black. Crown 8vo, ds.
Day of My Life (A) ; or. Every Day Experiences at Eton.
By an Eton Boy, Author of "About Some Fellows." l6mo, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d. 6th Thousand.

Day out 0/ the Life of a Little Maiden {A) : Six Studies from
Life. By Sheer and Angler. Large 4to, in portfolio, diane.

By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown Svo, 6s.

DicJz Cheveley : his Fortunes and Misfortunes. By W. H. G.
Kingston. 350 pp., square imo, and 22 full-page Illustrations.
Cloth, gilt edges, ^s. 6d.

Dick Sands J the Boy Captain. By Jules Verne. With
nearly ico Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges, 10^-. 6d.

Dodge mrs. M.) Bans Brinker; or, the Silver Skates. An
entirely New Edition, with 59 Full-page and other Woodcuts.
Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, K^s. ; Text only, paper, is.

Dogs of Assize. A Legal Sketch-Book in Black and White.
Containing 6 Drawings by Walter J. Allen. Folio, in wrapper, 6^. slight

Cousins. See Alcott.

Eld?nuir: An Art Story of Scottish Home-Life, Scenery, and
Incident. By Jacob Thompson, Jun. Illustrated with Engravings
after Paintings of Jacob Thompson. With an Introductory Notice
by Llewellyn Hewitt, Fas. A., &c. Deny Svo, cloth extra, 14^-.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid. Crown Svo, embroidery

handbook of). By L. Higgins. Edited by Lady
Marian Afford, and published by authority of the Royal School of
Art Needlework. With 16 page Illustrations, Designs for Borders,
&c. Crown Svo, 5 J.

English Catalogue of Books (The). Published during 1863 to
1871 inclusive, comprising also important American Publications. 30j\
*^* Of the previous Volume, 1835 to 1862, very few remain on
sale ; as also of the Index Volume, 1837 to 1857.

• Supplements, 1863, 1864, 1865, 3^. 6d. each; 1866

to 1880, 5-f. each.
English Wriie7's, Chapters for Self-improvement in EngHsli

Literature. By the Author of "The Gentle Life," ds. ; smaller

edition, 2s. 6d.

English Philosophers. A Series of Volumes containing short
biographies of the most celebrated English Philosophers, designed to
direct the reader to the sources of more detach and extensive criticism
than the size and nature of the books in this Series would permit.
Though not issued in chronological order, the series will, whttn
complete, constitute a comprehensive history of English Philosophy.
Two Volumes will be issued simultaneously at brief intervals, in square
imo, price 2s. 6d.

ThefoU(nvi)jg are already arranged : —
Bacon. Professor Fowler, Professor of Logic in Oxford.
Berkeley. Professor T. II. Green, Professor of Moral Philosophic,

Oxford.
Hamilton. Professor MoNK, Professor of Moral Philosophy, Dublin.
J. S. Mill. Miss Helen Taylor, Editor of "The Works of

Buckle," &c.
Manse. Rev. J. TI. IIucKiN, Dad., Head Master cf Ronton.
Adam Smith. Mr. J. A. Eakri u, M.A., Author of " I'nnrlive

Manners and Customs."

•^ 3

English Philosophers continued : —

Hobbes. Mr. A. H. Posset, B.A., Fellow of New College, Oxford.
Bentham. Mr. G. E. Buckle, M. A., Fellow of All Souls', Oxford.
Austin. Mr. Harry Johnson, B.A., late scholar of Queen's

College, Oxford.
Hartley. ) Mr. E. S. BowEN, B.A., late Scholar of New College,
James Mill. ) Oxford.

Shaftesbury. \ Fowler. •

Hutchison. j

Ei'chomenon ; or, The Republic of Materialism. Small post

8vo, cloth, jeremy
; or, My Fathers Sin. See Blackmore.

Eton. See " Day of my Life," " Out of Schools " About Some

Fellows."
Evans (C.) Over the Hills and Far Aivay. By C. Evans.

One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra, ioj-. (id.
A Strange Friendship. Crown 8vo, cloth, 5i-.

'P AMPLY Prayers for Working Men. By the Author of
■'- *' Steps to the Throne of Grace." With an Introduction by the

Rev. E. H, BiCKERSTETH, M.A. Cloth, \s. ; sewed, 6^/.

Let n Paradise ( The) : A Plea for the Culture of Ferns. By F . G.
Heath. New Edition, entirely Rewritten, Illustrated with Eighteen
full-page, numerous other Woodcuts, including 8 Plates of Ferns and
Four Photographs, large post 8vo, cloth, gilt edges, \2s. 6J. Sixth
Edition. In 12 Parts, sewn, is. each.

"This charming Volume will not only enchant the Fern-lover, but will also
please and instruct the general rG.:id&r."— Spectator.

Fern World the). By F. G. Heath. Illustrated by Twelve
Coloured Plates, giving complete Figures (Sixty-four in all) of every
Species of British Fern, printed from Nature ; by several full-page
Engravings. Cloth, gilt, 6th Edition, 12s. 6d. In 12 parts, is. each.
Mr. Heath has really given us good, well-written descriptions of our native
Ferns, with indications of their habitats, the conditions under which they grow
naturally, and under which they may be cultivated." — Athoiaiun.

Feiv (A) Hints on Proving Wills. Enlarged Edition, \s.

First Steps in Conversational French Grammar. By F. Julien.
Being an Introduction to " Petites Lemons de Conversation et de
Grammaire," by the same Author. Cap. 8vo, 12S pp., is.

Five Years in. Minnesota. By Maurice Farrar, AI.A.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ds.
Flooding of the Sahara (The). See Mackenzie.
Food for the People ; or, Lentils and other Vegetable Cookery.

By E. E. Orlebar. Third Thousand, Small post 8vo, boards, u.

A Fool's Errand. By One of the Fools. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, footsteps

of the Master. See Stowe (Mrs. Beecher).

Forbidden Land (A) : Voyages to the Core. By G. Pert.
Numerous Illustrations and Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, i\s.

Four Lectures on Electric Induction. Delivered at the Royal
Institution, 1878-9. By J. E. H. Gordon, B.A. Cantab. With
numerous Illustrations. Cloth limp, square imo, 3.?.

Foreign Countries and the British Colonies. Edited by F. S.
Pulling, M.A., Lecturer at Queen's College, Oxford, and formerly
Professor at the Yorkshire College, Leeds. A Series of small Volumes
descriptive of the principal Countries of the World by well-known
Authors, each Country being treated of by a Writer who from
Personal Knowledge is qualified to speak with authority on the Subject.
The Volumes will average 180 crown 8vo pages, will contain Maps,
and, in some cases, a few typical Illustrations.

The following Volumes are in preparation : —

Canada.

Sweden and Norway.
The West Indies.
New Zealand.

Franc [Maude Jane). The following form one Series, small
post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings: —

Emily s Choice, '^s.

• ILalVs Vineyard, ass.

John's Wife : a Story of Life in South Australia. 45.

Marian ; or, the Light of Some Ones Lionel ^s.

Silken Cords and Iron Fetters. 45.

Vermont Vale. 51.

Minnie's Mission. 4 J.

Little Mercy, ^s.

Beatrice Melton, ^s.

Friends and Foes in the Transact : An Englis/ncoman^s Experiences
during the Cape Frontier War t)f 1877-8. Uy IIi;li::n ^L
Richard. Crown 8vo, cloth, los. Od.

Froissart (7he Boy's). Selected from the Chronicles of England,
France, Spain, &c. By Sidney Lanii:r. The Volume will
be fully Illustrated. Crown 8vo, cloth, ys. dl.

Fenny Foreigners and Eccentric Englishmen. 16 coloured
comic Illustrations for Children. Cap. folio, coloured wrapper, 4^'.

/^A ME S of Fa lie nee. See Cadogan.

Gentle Life (Queen Edition). 2 vols, in i, small 4to, loi. dd.

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6j'. each ; or in calf extra, price vos. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.
A Reprint (with the exception of " Familiar Words " and "Other
People's Windows "j has been issued in very neat limp cloth bindings
at 2s. 6d. each.

lie Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen. 21st Edition.

"Deserves to be printed in letters of gold, and circulated in every house." —
Chambers' Journal

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

It is not easy to open it at any page without finding some handy idea"— jf/^rw-
ing Post.

Like tinto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'

De Imitation Christi." 2nd Edition.

Could not be presented in a more exquisite form, for a more sightly volume was
never seen." — I Hesitated London News.

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
Affording an immediate Reference to Phrases and Sentences
that have become embedded in the English language. 3rd and
enlarged Edition. 6s.

"The most extensive dictionary of quotation we have met with." — Xoies and
Queries.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life." With Portrait. 2nd Edition.

We .should be glad if any words of ours could help to bespeak a large circulation
for this handsome attractive book." — Illustrated Times.

File Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. Written by Sir Philip
Sidney. Edited with Notes by Author of " The Gentle Life." 'js. 6d.
"All the best things are retained intact in Mr. Friswell's Qd.\l\on."— Examiner.

File Gentle Life. 2nd Series, 8th Edition.

There is not a single thought in the volume that does not contribute in some
measure to the formation of a true gentleman." — Daily Neivs,

Fie Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life." 3rd Edition.
"All who possess 'The Gentle Life' should own this volume." — Standard.

ILalf Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.
Essays on English JVriten, for the Self-improvement of

Students in English Literature.

To all who have neglected to read and study their native literature we would

certainly suggest the volume before us aS a fitting introduction." — Examiner,

The Gentle Life Series (continued) : —

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswei.l. 3rcl Edition.

"The chapters aie so lively in themselves, so mingled with shrewd views of
human nature, so full of illustrative anecdotes, that the reader cannot lall tone
amused. " — Morning Post.

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

German Primer. Being an Introduction to First Steps in

German. By M. T. Pre. 2s. 6d.
Getting On in the World ; or, Hints on Success in Life. By

W. Mathews, LL.D. Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 3^. 6d.
Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Large

]post 8vo, with numerous Illustrations. Uniform with "The Fern

World" and "Our Woodland Trees." \2s.U.

"Those who know Mr. Heath's Volumes on Ferns, as well as his 'Woodland

Trees,' and his little work on ' Buchan Beeches,' will understand the enthusiasm

with which he has executed his task. . . . The Volume deserves to be a favourite

in the boudoir as \\cll as in the library'' — Satin-day Review.

Gordon {/. E. H.). See " Four Lectures on Electric Induction,"
" Physical Treatise on Electricity," Sec.

Gouffe. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse Gouffe, Head
Pastrycook to her Majesty the Queen. Illustrated with large plates
printed in colours. 161 Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. 2s.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, vos. 6d.

By far the ablest and most complete work on cookery that has eve been submitted
to the gastronomical world." — Pall Mall Gazette.

Gouraud (yMdlle.) Four Gold Pieces. Numerous Illustrations.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6./. See also Rose Library.
Government of AI. Tiers. By Jules Simon. Translated from

the French. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 32J-.
Great Artists. See Biographies.
Greek Grammar. See Waller.

Guizofs History of France. Translated by Robert Black.
Super-royal 8vo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
5 vols., cloth extra, gilt, each 24.?.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history." — I'iiius.

■ jl/asson's School Edition. The

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged front the Translation by Robert Place, M.A
with Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical 'i'ablcs, iKic.
Icy Professor Gustave Mason, P. A., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy 8vo, 600 pp., cloth extra, vos, cis.

Guizofs History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 Full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
i^s. each.

"For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted." — Times.

Guyon saide.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Handbook to the Charities of London. See Low's.

of Embroidery ; which see.

to the Principal Schools of England. See Practical.

Llalf-LIours of Blind Man's Holiday ; or, Summer and Winter

Sketches in Black & White. By W. W. Penn. 2 vols., cr. 8vo, 24s.
Half Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.

By J. Hain Friswell. Small post 8vo, ds. ; Smaller Edition, is. ci.
Hallow. W.) How to Live Long; or, 1408 Health Maxims,

Physical, Mental, and Moral. By W. W. Hall, A.M., M.D.

Small post 8vo, cloth, 2s. Second Edition.
Hans B r inter ', or, the Silver Skates. See Dodge.
Have La Vote? A Handy Book for the Use of the People,

on the Qualifications conferring the Right of Voting at County and

Borough Parliamentary Elections. With Forms and Notes. By

T. H. Lewis, B.A., LL.B. Paper, ed.
Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels and Adventures in the

Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from 1868 to 1 87 1. By Dr.

George Schweinfurth. Numerous Illustrations, and large Map.

2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 155.
Heath francis George). See " Fern World," " Fern Paradise,"

"Our Woodland Trees," "Trees and Ferns;" "Gilpin's Forest

Scenery," " Burnham Beeches," "Sylvan Spring," &c.
Heher's (Bishop) Illustrated Edition of LLynins. With upwards

of 100 beautiful Engravings. Small 4to, handsomely bound, 7.J. 6d.

Morocco, 18^. 6d. and2ij. An entirely New Edition.
Hector Servadac. <S^^ Verne. 10^. dd. and 5^.
LLeir of LCilfinnan the). New Story by W. H. G. Kingston,

Author of " Snow Shoes and Canoes," " With Axe and Title," &c.

With Illustrations. Cloth, gilt edges, 7^-. 6r/.
History and Handbook of Photography. Translated from the

French of Gaston Tissandier. Edited by J. Thomson. Imperial

l6mo, over 300 pages, 70 Woodcuts, and Specimens of Prints by the

best Permanent Processes. Second Edition, with an Appendix by

the late Mr. Henry Fox Talbot. Cloth extra, 6^.

History of a Crime the) ; Deposition of aji Eye-witness. By
Victor HuctO. 4 vols., crown 8vo, 425-. Cheap Edition, i vol., cis

See Guizot.

Finance. See Guizot.

of Russia, ee Ram baud.

Merchant Shipping. See Lindsay.

United States. See Bryant.

h-eland. Standish Grady, Vols. I. and II., 7^. dd.

each.

American Literature. By M. C. Tyler. Vols. I.

and II., 2 vols, 8vo, 24J-.
History and Principles of Weaving by ILandand by Poiver. With

several hundred Illustrations. By Alfred Barlow. Royal 8vo,

cloth extra, i/. ^s. Second Edition.
Hitherto. By the Author of" The Gayworthys." New Edition,

cloth extra, y. 6d. Also, in Rose Library, 2 vols., 2s.
Home of the Edda. By C. G. Lock. Demy 8vo, cloth, its.
How to Live Long. See Hall.
Hoi to get Strong and hoi to Stay so. By William Bailie.

A Manual of Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, and other Exercises.

With Illustrations, small post Svo, $s.
Worthy of every one's attention, whether old or young." — Graphic.

Lingo victor) '' Ninety-three r Illustrated. Crown Svo, 6.y.
Toilers of the Sea. Crown Svo. Illustrated, Gs. ; flinty

boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6./. ; On large paper with all the original

Illustrations, los. 6d.
See " History of a Crime."

Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 vols., containing 15 to 20
Portraits each, 2\s. each. See below.

"Messrs. Sainii'son Low i*^ Co. arc about to issue an important ' International'
work, entitled, ' The HUNDRED GREATEST MEN;' being the Lives and
Portraits of the 100 Greatest Men of History, divided into Eight Classes, each Class
to form a Monthly Quarto Voliune- 'J'he Introductions to the volumes are to be
written hey recognized authorities on the different subjects, the English contributors
being Dean Stanley, Mr. Matthew Arnold, Mr. Fkol'de, and Professor Max
MiJLLEK: in Germany, Professor Helmholtz ; in France, MM. Taine and
Renal ; and in America, Mr. Emerson. The Portraits are to be Reproductions
from fine and rare Steel E,ngr:^\\ng%."~- Academy.

Hygiene and Public Health {A Treatise on). Edited by A. I f.
^BuCK, eld. Illustrated by numerous Wood Engravings. In 1
royal Svo vols., cloth, one guinea each.
Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer. See

BlCKKRSTETU.

Illustrated Text-Books of Art Education. A Series
-^ of Monthly Volumes preparing foi publication. Edited by Edward
J. Pointer, R. A., Director for Art, Science and Art Department.

Tie first Volumes, large crown Svo, cloth, y. dd. each, will be issued in the

following divisions : —

PAINTING.

Classic and Italian. j French and Spanish.

German, Flemish, and Dutch. | English and American.

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian. | Gothic, Renaissance, & Modern.

SCULPTURE.

Classic and Oriental. | Renaissance and Modern.

ORNAMENT.

Decoration in Colour. | Architectural Ornament.

Illustrations of China and its People. By J. Thompson
Fer, Gas. Four Volumes, imperial 4to, each 3/. 3J.

/;/ my Indian Garden. By Phil Robinson. With a Preface
by Edwin Arnold, M. A., C.S.I., &c. Crown Svo, limp cloth, 3j-. dd.

Involuntary Voyage (An). Showing how a Frenchman who
abhorred the Sea was most unwillingly and by a series of accidents
driven round the World. Numerous Illustrations. Square crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7^. 6d.

Irish Bar. Comprising Anecdotes, Bon-mots, and Biographical
Sketches of the Bench and Bar of Ireland. By J. Frederick
Flanagan, Barrister-ate Law. Crown Svo, I2J-. Second Edition.

yACKandJill By Miss Alcott. Small post Svo, cloth,
gilt edges, 5^.
Jacqiiemart (A.) History of the Ceramic Art. By Albert
Jacquemart. With 200 Woodcuts, 12 Steel-plate Engravings, and
1000 Marks and Monograms. Translated by Mrs. BuRY Palliser.
Super-royal Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2Sj-.

Jimmy's Cruise in the Pinafore. See Alcott.

J^AFIRLAND : A Ten Months' Campaign. By Frank N.
Stratified, Resident Magistrate in Kaffraria, and Commandant
of Native Levies during the Kaffir War of 187S. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, ']s. 6d.

Keble Autograph Birthday Book the). Containing on each left-hand
page the date and a selected verse from Keble's hymns.
Imperial Svo, with 12 Floral Chromic, ornamental binding, gilt edges,

Khedive's Egypt ( The) ; or, The old House of Bondage under
New Masters. Ky Edwin de Leon. Illustrated. Demy 8vo, %s. 6J.

King's Rifle the): From the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean;
Across Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the Great Zambesi Affluent,
&c. By Major Serpa Pinto. With 24 full-page and about 100
smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and i large one. Demy 8vo.

Kingston (JV. H. G.). See " Snow-shoes'

Child of the Cavern.

Vivo Supercargoes.

— With Axe and Rifle.

Begum's Fortune.

Heir of Kilflnnan,

Dick Cheveley.

T Lady Silverdale's Sweetheart. 6x. ^"6^^ Black.

Lenten Meditations. In Two Series, each complete in itself.
By the Rev. Claude Bosanquet, Author of "Blossoms from the
King's Garden." imo, cloth, First Series, u. 6^. ; Second Series, 2x.

Lentils. See " Food for the People."

Licsegang {Dr. Paul E) A Manual of the Carbon Process of
Photography. Demy 8vo, half-bound, with Illustrations, 4j-.

Life and Letters of the Honourable Charles Sumner the).
2 vols,, royal 8vo, cloth. Second Edition, 36j-.

Lindsay {JV. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient
Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps and Charts. In 4 vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra. Vols, i and 2, 2i.r. ; vols. 3 and 4, 24J-. each.

Lion Jack : a Story of Perilous Adventures amongst Wild Men
and Beasts. Showing how Menageries are made. By P. T. Barnum.
With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, price little

King ; or, the Taming of a Young Russian Count. By
S. Bi.ANDY. 64 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, gilt edges, 7^. 6d. ; plainer
binding, $s.

Little Mercy; or, For Better for IVorse. By Maude Jeanne
Franc, Auth(.)r of "Marian," "Vermont Vale," &c., &c. Small
post 8vo, cloth extra, 4J. Second Edition.

Long col. C. Caille) Central Africa. Naked Truths of
Naked People : an Account of Expeditions to Lake Victoria Nyanza
and the Mabraka Niam-Niam. DcniySvo, numerous Illustrations, i8j.

Lost Sir Massinger. New Edition , crown 8 vo, boards, coloured
wrapper, zs.

Loci's German Series —

1. The Illustrated German Primer. Being the easiest introduction

to the study of German for all beginners. \s.

2. The Children's own German Book. A Selection of Amusing

and Instinctive Stories in Prose. Edited by Dr. A. L. Messer.
Small post 8vo, cloth, \s. 6d.

3. The First German Reader, for Children from Ten to

Fourteen. Edited by Dr. A. L. Messer. Small post 8vo,
cloth, IJ-. 6(7'.

4. The Second German Header. Edited by Dr. A. L. Messer.

Small post 8vo, cloth, is. 6d.

Biichkeini's Deutsche Prosa. Two Volumes sold separately : —

5. Schiller's Prosa. Containing Selections from the Prosa Works

of Schiller, \vith Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim,
Small post 8vo, 2J. dd.

6. Goethe's Prosa. Selections from the Prosa Works of Goethe,

with Notes for English Students. By Dr. Buchheim. Small
post 8vo, 3^-. dd.

LoKi's International Scries of Toy Books. 6d. each ; or
Mounted on Linen, is.

1. Little Fred and his Fiddle, from Asbjornsen's "Norwegian

Fairy Tales."

2. The Lad and the North Wind, ditto.

3. The Pancake, ditto.

Louis Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown 8vo,
bound uniformly in cloth extra, price 7^-. dd.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. Butler, C.B.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, C.B.

3. How I found Living-stone. By H. Vl. Stanley.

4. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, lor. 6(7.)

5. A Whaling Cruise to Baffin's Bay and the Gulf of Boothia.

By A. H. Markham.

6. Campaigning on the Oxus. By J. A. M.\cGahax.

7. Akim-foo : the History of a Failure. By Major W. F.

Butler, C.B.

8. Ocean to Ocean. By the Rev. George 1s\. Grant. With

Illustrations.

9. Cruise of the Challenge-er. By W. J. J. Spry, Ren.

10. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., \<^s.

11. Through the Dark Continent. By H, M. Stanley. i vol.,

lis. 6d.

Lord's Standard Novels. Crown 8vo, ds. each, cloth extra.

My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen' Mathers, Authoress of
Comic' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c.

Three Feathers. By William Black.

A Daughter of Heth, 13th Edition. By W. Black. \Vith
Frontispiece by F. Walker, A.R.A.

Kilmeny. A Novel. By W. Black.

In Silk Attire. By W. Black.

Lady Silverdale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.

History of a Crime : Time Story of the Coup d'Etat. By Victor
Hugo.

Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.

Lorna Doone. By R. D. Blackmore. 8th Edition.

Cradock Newell. By R. D. Blackmore.

Clara Aug-han. By R. D. Blackmore,

Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.

Erema ; or My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.

Innocent. By Mrs. Oliphant. Eight illustrations.

Work. A Story of Experience. By Louisa M. Alcott. illustrations.
Sec also Rose Library.

The Afg-han Knife. By R. A. Sterndale, Author of" Sconce."

A French Heiress in her own Chateau. By the author of " One
Only," " Constantia," &c. Six Illustrations.

Ninety-three. By Victor Hugo. Numerous Illustrations.

My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.

Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.

Pog-anuc People, Their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe.

A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Cashel Holy.

Low's Handbook to the Chanties of London. Indited and
revised to date by C. Macedon, F. Ses., Editor of " A Guide to the
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. \s.

IWrACGAIIAN (/. A.) Campaigning on the 0.x us, and the
■^'^ Fall of Khiva. With Map and numerous Illustrations, 4lh Edition,

small post 8vo, cloth extra, yj, Qid.
Macgregor john) '^ Rob Roy'' on the Baltic. 3rd Coalition,
small post Svo, 2s. 6d.

A Thousand Miles in the ^^ Rob Roy'' Canoe, with

Edition, small post Svo, 2s. dd.

Macgregor john) Description of the ^^ Rob Rof^ Canoe, will
Plans, (Sic , \s.

• The Voyage Alone in the Yawl ''^ Rob Roy'' New

Edition, thoroughly revised, with additions, small post 8vo, 5^. ;
boards, 2s. 6d.

Mackenzie (D). The Flooding of the Sahara. By Donald
jNIackExXZIE. 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, vos. ()d.

Macquoid mrs .) Elinor Dryden. Crown 8vo, cloth, ds.

Diane. Crown 8vo, ds.

Magazine illustrated) for Young People. See "St. Nicholas."

Ma7-khani {C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region.
Crown 8vo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition, Cloth extra, vos. 6d.

Maury {Conunander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Meteorology. Being a Reconstruction and Enlargement of his former
Work, with Charts and Diagrams. New Edition, crown Svo, 6s.

Memoirs of Madame de Remusat. 1802— 1808. By her Grandson,
M. Paul de Remusat, Senator. Translated by Mrs. Cashel
IIoEY and and Mr. John Lille. 4th tuition, cloth extra. This
work was written by Madame de Remusat during the time she
was living on the most intimate terms with the Empress Josephine,
and is full of revelations respecting the private life of Bonaparte, and
of men and politics of the first years of the century. Revelations
which have already created a great sensation in Paris. Svo, 2 vols. 325-.

ATen of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Po7't?'a its of the most
Eminent Men of the Day taken from Life, especially for this publication,
price IS. 6d. monthly. Vols. I., IL, III., and IV., handsomely
bound, cloth, gilt edges, 25^-. each.

Michael Sto go jf. vos. 6d. and 5^-. 6"^^ Verne.

Mitford miss). See " Our Village."

Montaigne's Essays. See " Gentle Life Series."

My Brother Jack ; or, The Story of Whatdyccallcm. "Written
by Himself. From the French of Alphonse Daudet. Illustrated
by P. Philitpoteaux. Imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, "js. 6d. ;
plainer binding, ^s.

My Lady Greenslea'es. By Helen Mathers, Authoress of
*'Comin' through the Rye," "Cherry Ripe," &c. i vol. edition,
crown Svo, cloth, 6s,

My Rambles in the New World. By Lucien Biart, Author of
"The Adventures of a Young Naturalist." Numerous full-page
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, ']s. 6d. ; plainer
binding, mysterious

Island. By Jules Verne. 3 vols., imperial imo.
150 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 3^. ct. each ; elaborately bound, gilt
edges, 7J-. 6d. each. Cheap Edition, with some cf the Illustrations,
cloth, gilt, 2s. ; paper, ij-. each.

Stares (Sir G. S., K.C.B) Narrative of a Voyage to the

-^ ^ Polar Sea during 1875-76, in H.M.'s Ships "Alerf'and "Discovery."
By Captain Sir G. S. Nares, Ren., K.C.B., F.R.S. Published by permission
of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. With Notes on
the Natural History, edited by H. W. Selden, F.G.S., C.M.Z.S.,
F.R.G.S., Naturalist to the Expedition. Two Volumes, demy Svo, with
numerous Woodcut Illustrations, Photographs, &c. 4th Edition, 2/. 2.s.

National Music of the World, By the late Henry F. Chorley.
Edited by II. G. Hewlett. Crown Svo, cloth, 8j. dd.

What I have to offer are not a few impressions, scrambled together in the haste
of the moment, but are the result of many years of comparison and experience." —
From the Author s "Prelude."

New Chills Play {A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B. Beautifully
printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, I2J. dd.

New Guinea {A Feiv Months in By Octaves C. Stone,
F.R.G.S. With numerous Illustrations from the Author's own
Drawings. Crown Svo, cloth, Is.

Neu Ireland. By A. M. Sullivan, ]\I.P. for Louth. 2 vols.,
demy Svo, 30^-. Cheaper Edition, i vol., crown Svo, Sj. 6d.

Neu Novels. Crown Svo, cloth, vos. Gd. per vol. : —

Mary Anerley. P>y R. D. Blackmore, Author of " Lorna Donc,"

&c. 3 vols.
The Sisters. By G. Er.ERS, Author of "An Egyptian Princess."

2 vols., imo, 2J. each.
Countess Daphne. V>y Rite, Authoress of " Vivicnnc " and " I.il.c

Dean's Kiss." 3 vols.
Sunrise. By W. Black. In 15 Monthly Parts, \s. each.
Wait a Year. By Harriet' Bora, Authoress of "A Young

Wife's Story." 3 vols.
Sarah de Berang:er. By Jean Angelo. 3 vols.
The Braes of Yarrow. P>y C. Gii'.iioN. 3 vols.
Elaine's Story. 15y Maud Sukkidan. 2 vols.
Prince Fortune and His Friends. ^ vols.

Noble Words and Noble Deeds. Translated from the French of
E. MuLLER, by Dora Leigh. Containing many Full-page Illustrations
by Philippoteaux. Square imperial imo, cloth extra, ']s. dd.

North American Review the). Monthly, price 2s. 6d.

Notes on Fish a ?id Fishing. By the Rev. J. J. Manley, M.A.
With Illustrations, crown 8vo, cloth extra, leatherette binding, lo. 6d.

Nursery Playmates prince of ). 217 Coloured pictures for
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

OBERAMMERGAU Passion Play. See 'part in the
Mountains."

Ocean to Ocean : Sandford Flemings Expedition through
Canada in 1872. By the Rev. George M. Grant. With Illustrations.
Revised and enlarged Edition, crown Svo, cloth, 7^. 6d.

Old-fashioned Girl. See Alcott.

Oliphant mrs >j Innocent. A Tale of Modern Life. By Mrs.
Oliphant, Author of "The Chronicles of Carlingford," &c., &c.
With Eight Full-page Illustrations, small post Svo, cloth extra, 6j.

On Horseback through Asia Minor. By Capt. Fred Burnaby,*
Royal Horse Guards, Author of *'A Ride to Khiva." 2 vols.,
Svo, with three Maps and Portrait of Author, 6th Edition, 38^-. ;
Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, los. 6d.

Our Little Ones in Leaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Robbins.
With Frontispiece after Sir JosHUA Reynolds. Cap., cloth extra,
New Edition— the 3rd, with Illustrations, cour

Village. By Mary Russell Mitford. Illustrated with

Frontispiece Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts
of Figure Subjects and Scenes. Crown 4to, cloth, gilt edges, 21s.

Our Woodland Trees. By F. G. Heath. Large post Svo,
cloth, gilt edges, uniform with "Fern World " and " Fern Paradise,"
by the same Author. 8 Coloured Plates (showing leaves of every
British Tree) and 20 Woodcuts, cloth, gilt edges, 12s. 6d. Third
Edition.

"The book, as a whole, meets a distinct need ; its engravings are excellent, its
coloured leaves and leaflets singularly accurate, and both author and engraver
appear to have been animated by a kindred love of their subject"— 6"rt/«n/<i^
J\6view.

pAINTERS of All Schools. By Louis Viardot, and other
•^ Writers. 500 pp., super-royal 8vo, 20 Full-page and 70 smaller
Engravings, cloth extra, 25^-. A New Edition is issued in Half-crown
parts, with fifty additional portraits, cloth, gilt edges, 31J. cl

Palliser mrs. ) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period.
A New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text, upwards
of 100 Illustrations and coloured Designs, i vol. 8vo, i/. \s.

One of the most readable books of the season ; permanently valuable, always interesting,
often amusing, and not inferior in all the essentials of a gift book." — Times.

Historic Devices, Badges, and War Cries. 8vo, i/. \s.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. 2nd Edition,
with Additions. Small post Svo, limp cloth, ^s.

Petites Lemons de Conversation et de Grammait-e : Oral and
Conversational Method ; being Lessons introducing the most Useful
Topics of Conversation, upon an entirely new principle, &c. By
F. JULIEN, French Master at King Edward the Sixth's School,
Birmingham. Author of "The Student's French Examiner," " First
Steps in Conversational French Grammar," which see.

Phillips (Z.) Dictionary of Biographical Reference. Svo,
I/, ws.dd.

Photography {IListory and Handbook of). See Tissandier.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. By J. E. H.
Gordon, B. A. With about 200 coloured, full-page, and other
Illustrations. Among the newer portions of the work may be
enumerated : All the more recent investigations on Strike by Scottish
De la Rue, Moulton, &c. An account of Mr. Crooked's recent
researches. Full descriptions and pictures of all the modern Magnetic
Survey Instruments now used at Kew Observatory. Full accounts of
all the modern work on Specific Inductive Capacity, and of the more
recent determination of the ratio of Electric units (v). It is believed
that in respect to the number and beauty of the Illustrations, the work
will be quite unique. 2 vols , Svo, 2t^s.

Picture Gallery of British Art the). 38 Permanent Photographs
after the most celebrated English Painters. With Descriptive
Letterpress. Vols. I to 5, cloth extra, i8i. each. Vols. 6, 7, and S,
commencing New Series, demy folio, 3 1 J. dd.

Pinto major Serpa). See " King's Rifle."

Placenta Anglo-Normannica. The Procedure and Constitution of
the Anglo-norman Courts (William I. — Richard I,), as shown by
Contemporaneous Records. With Explanatory Notes, &c. By M. M.
BiORi.ow. Demy Svo, cloth, 2U.

PhitarcKs Lives. An Entirely New and Library Edition.
Edited by A. H. Clough, Esq. 5 vols., 8vo, 2/. ioj. ; half-morocco,
gilt top, 3/. Also in I vol., royal 8vo, 800 pp., cloth extra, i8j-. ;
half-bound, z\s.

Morals. Uniform with Clough's Edition of " Lives of

Plutarch." Edited by Professor Goodwin. 5 vols., 8vo, 3/. 3^.

Poems of the Inner Life. A New Edition, Revised, with many
additional Poems. Small post 8vo, cloth, 5J-.

Polemic People: their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. Beecher
Stowe. Crown 8vo, cloth, ds.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan,
and Nares.

Practical (A) Handbook to the Principal Schools of England.
Ey C. E. Pascoe. New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3^-. 6r/.

Prejevalsky (N. M.) Front Kulja, across the Tian Shan to Lobo:.
Translated by E. Delmar Morgan, F.R.G.S. Demy 8vo,
with a Map. i6j-.

Prince Ditto ; or, The Four-leaved Shamrock. By Fanny W.

Surrey. With 10 Full-page Fac-simile Reproductions of Original
Drawings by Helen O'Hara. Demy 4to, cloth extra, gilt, loi. dd.

•
Publishers' Circular the), acid General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 3^.

JDAMBA UD alfred). History of Russia, from its Origin
■^ to the Year 1877. With Six Maps. Translated by Mrs. L. B.
Lang. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 38j-.

Recollections of Writers. By Charles and INIary Cowden
Clarke. Authors of "The Concordance to Shakespeare," &c. ;
with Letters of Charles Lamb, Leigh Hunt, Douglas Ferrol,
and Charles Dickens ; and a Preface by Mary Cowden Clarke.
Crown 8vo, cloth, los. 6d.

Reminiscences of the War in New Zealand. By Thomas W.
Gudgeon, Lieutenant and Quartermaster, Colonial Forces, Nez.
With Twelve Portraits. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, loj-. dd.

Ragusa madame de). See " Memoirs of."

Robinson phil). See " In my Indian Garden."

Rochefoucauld's Refections. Bayard Series, 2s. 6d.

Jiog€rs.{S.) Pleasures of Memory. See "Choice Editions of
Choice 13ooks." 2s. 6d.

Pose in Bloom. See Alcott.

Pose Library the). Popular Literature of all countries. Each
volume, IJ-. ; cloth, 2s. dd. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated —

1. Sea-Gull Rock. By Jules Sandeau. Illustrated.

2. Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

3. Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to "Little Women."

4. The House on Wheels. By Madame de Stole. Illustrated.

5. Little Men. By Louisa M. Alcott. Able. vol., 2s. ; cloth, 3j-. dd.

6. The Old-fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. Double

vol., 2J-. ; cloth, 35. dd.

7. The Mistress of the Manse. By J. G. Holland.

8. Timothy Titcomh's Letters to Young People, Single and

Married.

9. Undine, and the Two Captains. By Baron De La Motte

FoUQUt. A New Translation by F. E. Bennett. Illustrated.

10. Dray Miller's Dowry, and the Elder's Wife. By Sank

Holm.

11. The Four Gold Pieces. By Madame GoURAUD. Numerous

Illustrations.

12. Work. A Story of Experience. First Portion, By Louisa M.

Alcott.

13. Beginning Again. Being a Continuation of "Work." By

Louisa M. Alcott.

14. Picciola; or, the Prison Flower. By X. B. Painting.

Numerous Graphic Illustrations.

15. Robert's Holidays. Illustrated.

16. The Two Children of St. Domingo. Numerous Illustrations.

17. Aunt Jo's Scrap Bag.

18. Stowe (Mrs. H, B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.
19. The Minister's Wooing.

20. Betty's Bright Idea.

21. The Ghost in the Mill.

22. Captain Kidd's Money.

23. We and our Neighbours. Double vol., 2s.

24. My Wife and I. J double vol., 2s. ; cloth, jill, 3^. 6t/.

25. Hans Brink ; or, the Silver Skates.

26. Bowels My Study Window.

27. Holmes (O. W.) The Guardian Angel.

28. Warner (C. D.) My Summer in a Garden,

The Rose Library, continued : —

29. Hitherto. By the Author of " The Gayworthys." 2 vols., \s. each.

30. Helen's Babies. By their Latest Victim,

31. The Barton Experiment. By the Author of " Helen's Babies."

32. Dred. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. Double vol., 2J. Cloth,

gilt, 3^. dd.

33. Warner (C. D.) In the "Wilderness.

34. Six to One. A Seaside Story.

Russell {W. LL., LL.D.) The Tour of the Prince of Wales in
India. By W. H. Russell, LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney
P. Hall, M.A. Super royal 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 52^-. 6^^.;
Large Paper Edition, 84J.

Sancta Christina: a Story of the First Century. By
^ Eleanor E. Oklebar. With a Preface by the Bishop of Winchester.
Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 5^.

Scientific Memoirs: beifig Experimental Contributions to a
Knowledge of Radiant Energy. By John William Draper, jNI. D.,
LL.D., Author of "A Treatise on Human Physiology," &c. With
Steel Portrait of the Author. Demy Svo, cloth, 473 pages, 14^-.

Scott sir G. Gilbert.) 6"^^ *' Autobiography."

Stall Rock. By Jules Sandeau, of the French Academy.

Royal imo, with 79 Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt edges, 'V. dd.
Cheaper Edition, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. See also Rose Library.

Stone : Sporting in the Saturn Range of Central Lfidia, and in
the Valley of the Nerbudda. By R. A. Sterndale, F.R.G.S. svo,
with numerous Illustrations, 2\s.

The Serpent Charmer: a Tale of the Indian Mutiny. By
Louis Rousselet, Author of "India and its Native Princes."
Numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 7^. 6d. ;
plainer binding, shakespeare

the Boudoir). Edited by Henry Wendell.
Carefully blackett for reading aloud ; freed from all objectionable
matter, and altogether free from notes. Price 2s. 6d. each volume,
cloth extra, gilt edges. Contents : — Vol I., Cymbeline — Merchant of
Venice. Each play separately, paper cover, is. Vol. II., As You
Like It — King Lear — Much Ado about Nothing. Vol. III., Romeo
and Juliet— Twelfth Night — King John. The latter six plays separately,
paper cover, gd.

Shakespeare Key ( The). Forming a Companion to " The
Complete Concordance to Shakespeare." By Charles and May
Bowden Clarke. Demy 8vo, 800 pp., 2\s.

Shooting: its Appliances, Practice, and Purpose. By James
Daniel Dougall, F.S.A., F.Z.A. Author of "Scottish Field
Sports," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ioj-. 6(/.

"The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success." — Globe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Silent Hour ( The). See " Gentle Life Series."

Silver Pitchers. See Alcott.

Simon {yules). See " Government of M. Tiers."

Six to One. A Seaside Story. imo, boards, is.

Smith (G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. By the late
George Smith. Illustrated by Photographs and Woodcuts. Demy
8vo, 6th Edition, i8j-.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late

G. Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum.
With many Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 6th Edition, i6j-,

Snow-shoes and Canoes ; or, the Adventures of a Fur-jupiter
in the Hudson's Bay Territory. By W. H. G. Kingston. 2nd
Edition. With numerous Illustrations. Square crown Svo, cloth
extra, gilt edges, 7j. 6/. ; plainer Finding, 5J.

Songs and Etchings in Shade and Sunshine. By J. E. G.
Illustrated with 44 Etchings. Small 4to, cloth, gilt tops, 25^-.

South Kensington Museum. Monthly li". See "Art Treasures."

Stanley {H. M.) Hoi I Found Livingstone. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7^, dd. ; large Paper Edition, vos. 6d.

'^ My Kalulu" Prince, ICing, and Slave. A Story

from Central Africa. Crown Svo, about 430 pp., with numerous graphic
Illustrations, after Original Designs by the Author. Cloth, "js. 6</.

Coomassie and Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, i6j.

Through the Dark Continent, which see.

St. Nicholas Magazine. 4to, in handsome cover, is. monthly.
Annual Volumes, handsomely hound, 15.?. Its special features are,
the great variety and interest of its literary contents, and the beauty

and profuseness of its Illustrations, which sui'i^ass anything yet
attempted in any publvcatU ii ^or young people, and the stories are by
the best living authors of juvenile literature. Each Part contains, on
an average, 50 Illustrations.

Story without an End. From the German of Carve, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. B., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water
Colours; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, ^s. 6(/.

square 4to, with Illustrations by Harvey. 2s. 6d.

Stojce mrs. Beecher) Dred. Cheap Edition, boards, 2^. Cloth,
gilt edges, 3j'. 6^.

Footsteps of the Master. With Illustrations and red

borders. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, ds.

Geography with 60 Illustrations. Square cloth, 4^. dd.

Little Foxes. Cheap Edition, \s.\ Library Edition,

4?. dd.

Betty s Bright Idea. is.

My Wife and I ; or, Harry Henderson's History,

Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6^.*

Minister's Wooing, ^s,; Copyright Series, is. 6d.; cl., 2s.*

Void Town Folk. 6j. ; Cheap Edition, 2s. dd.

Old Town Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, y. Gd.

Our looks at Poganuc, 10s. Gd.

IVe and our Neighbours, i vol., small post Svo, Gs.

Sequel to *' My Wife and I."*
Pink and White Tyranny. Small post Svo, 3i". Gd. ;

Cheap Edition, \s. Gd. and 2s.

Queer Little People, is. ; cloth, 2s.

Chimney Corner, is. ; cloth, is. Gd.

The Pearl of Orr's Island. Crown Svo, 5^.*

Little Pussy Willow. Cap., 2^.

• See also Rose Library.

Stoiue mrs. Beecher) Woman in Sacred History. Illustrated
with 15 ChroQio-Iithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress.
Demy 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 25i-.

Students French Examiner. By F. Julien, Author of " Petites
Lemons de Conversation etdeGrammaire." Square crown Svo, cloth, studies

in German Literature. By Bayard Taylor. Edited
by Marie Taylor. With an Introduction by the Hon. George
1£. Boer. Svo, cloth extra, vos. 6d.

Studies in the Theory of Descent. By Dr. Aug. Weis:\iann,
Professor in the University of Freiburg. Translated and edited by
Raphael Mendoza, F.C.S., Secretary of the Entomological Society
of London. Part I. — "On the Seasonal Dimorphism of Butterflies''
containing Original Communications by Mr. W. 11. Edwards, of
Coalburgh. With two Coloured Plates. Price of Part. I. (to Subscribers
for the whole work only) Sj- ; Part IL (6 coloured plates), i6jr. ;
Part III., 6^.

Sugar Beet (The). Including a History of the Beet Spear
Industry in Europe, Varieties of the Sugar Beet, Examination, Soils,
Tillage, Seeds and Sowing, Yield and Cost of Cultivation, Harvesting,
Transportation, Conservation, Feeding Qualities of the Beet and of
the Pulp, &c. By L. S. Ware. Illustrated. Svo, cloth extra, 21s.

Sullivan {A. Fil, M.p). See '' New Ireland."

Sulphuric Acid (A Practical Treatise on the Manufacture of).
By A. G. and C. G. Lock, Consulting Chemical Engineers. With
77 Construction Plates, and other Illustrations.

Sumner lion. Charles). See Life and Letters.

Sunrise: A Story of These Times. By William Black,
Author of "A Daughter of Hath," &c. To be published in 15
Monthly Parts, commencing April list, is. each.

Surgeon's Handbook on the Treatment of Wounded in War. Y>y
Dr. Friedrich Esmarch, Professor of Surgery in the University of
Kiel, and Surgeon-general to the Prussian Army. Translated by
H. H. Glutton, B.A. Cantab, F.R.C.S. Numerous Coloured
Plates and Illustrations, Svo, strongly bound in flexible leather, i/. Sj.

Sylvan Spring. By Francis George Heath. Illustrated by

12 Coloured Plates, drawn by F. E. Hulme, F. Les., Artist and
Author of " Familiar Wild Flowers;" by 16 full-page, and more than
100 other Wood Engravings. Large post Svo, cloth, gilt edges, \2s. (pii.

n^AUCHNITZ's English Editions of German Authors.
•^ Each volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, \s. 6d. (Catalogues post
free on application.)

{B.) German and English Dictionary. Cloth, i^. 6d.;

roan, 2s,
French and English. Paper, i^. dd. ; cloth, 2S. ; roan,

2s. ed.

Italian and English. Paper, i^. dd. ; cloth, 2S. ;

roan, 2s. 6d.
Spanish and English. Paper, i^. dd. ; cloth, 2s. ; roan,

2S. 6d.

New Testament. Cloth, 2s. ; gilt, 2s. 6d.

Taylor bayard). See " Studies in German Literature."

Textbook (A) of Harmony. For the Use of Schools and
Students. By the late Charles Edward Horsley. Revised for
the Press by Wester Richards and W. H. Alcott. Small post
8vo, cloth extra, 3^'. 6d.

Through the Dark Continent : The Sources of the Nile ; Around
the Great Lakes, and down the Congo, By Henry M. Stanley.
2 vols., demy 8vo, containing 150 Full-page and other Illustrations,
2 Portraits of the Author, and 10 Maps, ^2s. Seventh Thousand.
Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, with some of the Illustrations and Maps.
I vol., 12s. ()d.

Tour of the Prince of Wales in hidia. See Russell.

Trees and Fer?is. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth, gilt
edges, with numerous Illustrations, 3J-. dd.

"A charming little volume. ' — Land and Water.

Turkestan. Notes of a Journey in the Russian Provinces of
Central Asia and the Khanates of Bokhara and Roland. By Eugene
Schuyler, Late Secretary to the American Legation, St. Petersburg.
Numerous Illustrations. 2 vols, Svo, cloth extra, 5th Edition, 2/. 2s.

Ttvo Friends. By Lucien Bl^^rt, Author of "Adventures of
a Young Naturalist," " My Rambles in the New World," &c. Small
post Svo, numerous Illustrations, gilt edges, ']s. 6d. ; plainer binding, 5^-.

7 WO Supercargoes the) ; or, Adventures in Savage Africa.
By W. H. G. Kingston. Numerous Full-page Illustrations. Square
imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, "js. 6d. ; plainer binding, '^s.

TIP and Doivn ; or, Fifty Years' Experiences in Australia,
^ California, New Zealand, India, China, and the South Pacific.

Being the Life History of Capt. W. J. Barry. Written by Himself.

With several Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, Sj. (3d.



rules Verne, that Prince of Story-tellers. "times.
BOOKS BY JULES Beene.

Large Crown 8vo .

WORKS.

Twenty Thousand Leagues

under the Sea. Part I.

Ditto. Part II.

Hector Servadao . . .

The Fur Country . . .

From the Earth to the
Moon and a Trip round
it

Michael Strogoff, the
Courier of the Czar . .

Dick Sands, the Boy
Captain

Five Weeks in a Balloon .

Adventures of Three Englishmen
and Three
Russians

Around the World in
Eighty Days

A Floating City

The Blockade Runners

Dr. Ox's Experiment . .

Master Zacharias , . .

A Drama in the Air . .

A Winter amid the Ice

The Survivors of the
Chancellor " . . . .

Martin Paz

The Mysterious Island,
3 vols. :—

Vol. I. Dropped from the
Clouds

Vol. II. Abandoned . .

Vol. III. Secret of the Island


The Child of the Cavern .

The Bcgum'a Fortune . .

The Tribulations of a
Chinaman

Containing 350 to 600 pp

and from 50 to 100
full-page illustrations.

In ver

handsom

cloth binding,

gilt

edges.

s. d.

10 6

10 8

10 6

10 6

IC G

10 G

7 6

7 G

7 G

7 G

7 6

7 6

22 6

7 6

In

plainer

binding,

plain

edo-es.

s. d.











3 G

3 G

10 G

3 G

3 G

3 (;

3 G

Containing the whole of the
text with some illustrations.

In cloth

binding, gilt

edges,

smaller

type.

2

1 2



If 2

I 2

J- 2

r 2

L 2






Coloured Boards.

s. d.
3 6

3 6

2 vols., 2s.
each.

2 vols., Is. each.

2 vols Is. each.
2 vols., Is. each.

5. d.











2 vols. Is. each.











Celebrated Travels and Travellers. 3 vols. Demy 8vo, GOO pp.,
upwards of 100 fulI-i)ago illuKtnuions, 12s. Gci.; gilt edges, 1 Is. each :—
(1^ The Exi'LouATioN op the >V\»rld.

(2) The Great Navigators of the EionTEBNTH Century.

(3) The Explorers of the Nineteenth Century. {Tn the Press.)

JJ/ALLER rev. C. H) The Names on the Gates of Pearl,
*^'^ and other Studies. By the Rev. C. H. Waller, M. A. Second
edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ds.

A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Bride's Concordance. For
the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. By the
Rev. C. 11. Waller, M. A. Part I., The Grammar. Small post 8vo,
cloth, 2s. 6d. Part II. The Vocabulary, 2s. 6d.

Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super-royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Wanderings in the Western Land. By A. Gendarmes Vivian,
M. P. With many Illustrations from Drawings by Mr. Bierstadt
and the Author, and 3 Maps, i vol., demy 8vo, cloth extra, iSj.

War in Bulgaria : a Narrative of Personal Experiences. By
Lieutenant-general Valentine Baker Pasha. Maps and
Plans of Battles. 2 vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 2/. 2s.

Warner (C. L>.) My Summer in a Garden. Rose Library, is.

Pack-log Studies. Boards, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2s.

/;/ the Wilderness. Rose Library, i^.

Mummies and Moslems. Svo, cloth, 125".

Weaving. See " History and Principles."
Whitney mrs. A. D. Tt) Hitherto, Small post Svo, 3^. 6d.
and 2s. 6d.

Sights and Knights. 3 vols., crown Svo, 31 J. 6^.

Summer in Leslie Goldthwaite's Life. Cloth, 35. 6d.

Wills, A Few Flints on Proving, without Professional Assistance,

By a Probate Court Official. 5th Edition, revised with Forms

of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Cap. Svo, cloth limp, \s.
With Axe and Rifle on the Western Prairies. By W, H. G.

Kingston. With numerous Illustrations, square crown Svo, cloth

extra, gilt edges, ^s. 6d. ; plainer binding, 50.
Witty and Humorous Side of the English Poets { The). With a

variety of Specimens arranged in Periods. By Arthur II. Elliott.

I vol., crown Svo, cloth, ioj-. 6d.
Wolsey {C. D., LL.D.) Lnti'odtiction to the Study of International

Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical

Studies. 5th Edition, demy Svo, swords
of Wellington: Maxims and Opinions, Sentences and

Reflections of the Great Duke, gathered from his Despatches, Letters,

and Speeches (Bayard Series). 2s. 6d.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell, ds. Third
and Cheaper Edition.

Mouton:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS 18S. FLEET STREET.

h
