fXS&fifiQvv

■

k3Kg&4si

w> :; -' ■'.</

- '•■•••••

'■-•■'■■'■■■'■■'

Wmssk

■:■:■■■:-'■■•■-.

£1

•*'- s; s s s *

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS


vel J

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/jackscourtshipsa01russ

A SAILOR'S YARN OF LOVE AND
SHIPWRECK.

BY

W. CLAEK Russell,

AETH02 OF " m ' Lai MACTV " " A .SEA QCEEX," ETC.

IN Thee VOL CUES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, Marston, SEAELB & EIYINGTOX,

Crown BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1884.

(All rights reserved')

PRINTED BY William Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,

STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

R1

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

IAPTBB I'A'.K

I. A Short Preface . . . . 1

II. My Uncle Seymour . . . 9

III. I go to Clifton . . . . 23

IV. Some Sacred Music . . . 49

V. Mr. Alfonso Hayvke . . . . 83

VI. A Little Dinner at Clifton Lodge . 9G

VII. Miss Hawke's Instructions . . . 137

Till. I take Lodgings . . . . 161

f

IX. My Bristol Lodgings . . . . 190

X. My Uncle damps my Hopes . . 203

XL I four out my Soul . . . . 214

XII. I receive a Visit . . . . 244

XIII. Lodgings 266

XIV. I RETURN TO LONDON . . . 292

^Jj XV. A Terrible Blow . . . . 303

XVI. A Grand Idea 313

CHAPTER I.

A SHORT PREFACE.

Shipmate, have you ever seen such a sight as a
dog chasing his tail on a hearth rug or in the sun,
in pursuit of a comfortable posture ? Just in that
manner have I rotated over this story. Over andover
again in my mind have I been turning it,
trying to find out how it ought to be told. It is
as queer a yarn, in my opinion, as any man ever
had to relate; and an artist, I have no doubt,
would make a first-rate job of it. But I, who had
all that I learnt at school washed out of me at
sea, where the Latin grammar, the Greek alphabet,
and the like, were mentioned to make way for a
very different sort of intellectual cargo — I say, how
should I be expected to know anything about art ?
After many mental revolutions I have arrived

VOL. I. B

at this determination — to make a kind of log of
it, and to spin the whole yarn as though a company
of sailors were sitting round me, pipes in
hand, and I was talking to them. The story will
go to windward better in that form than in any
other ; and as a log-book is the last sort of
volume you would look into for elevated writing,
and as the mariner's lingo has never been famous
for polish and sweetness, so my choice comforts
me with the reflection that it will save me the
pains of reading through the poets for elegant
ideas, and wading through the dictionary for fine
words.

My name is Jack Seymour, and in such-and-such
a year I was five-and-twenty years old.
Were yarns of this kind embellished with cuts I
might save myself a troublesome spell of description
by handing the printers a portrait of myself
as I was in those days. Five feet ten inches my
height was, and though I had knocked off the sea,
after seven and a half years of it, in eighteen
hundred and something odd, old ocean had left
such an impress on me that I looked as much a
sailor after three years of shore-going life as ever
I did in the jumper of an apprentice riding down
a topgallant stay, or in the blue serge or pilot-cloth
of a second mate, stumping the weather-side
of the quarter-deck.

It takes a sailor a long time to straighten his

spine and get quit of the bold sheer that earns
him the name of shell-back. That is not all.
Lobscouse eats into the system ; salt-horse works
out of the pores and contributes to that complexion
of mahogany which is often mistakenly attributed
^o rum and weather ; and I have been shipmates
with a man who grew white-haired at thirty on
soup and bully.

Why will mammas let their little boys go to
sea ? It is not only that it is the hardest life in
the world; when once you are a sailor you are
always a sailor, and the calling sticks to you as
the rings and bracelets do which are pricked upon
your wrists and fingers ; so that should you ever
happen to fall in love with a girl who does not
much care about sailors, but who likes soldiers,
and could like you were you a soldier, you are
forced in spite of yourself to go on looking like a
sailor, though you may have quitted the sea for
years, and would enlist tomorrow if the beauty
commanded you to do so.

I ceased to be a nautical man when my father
died. I was then second mate of the vessel in
which I took my last voyage, with a chief mate's
certificate, and had little doubt of obtaining a
chief mate's berth next time. But on my arrival
in London from China, after a voyage that had
carried me round the world twice, I learnt that
my poor father was dead, and had left me all he

had, barring his furniture, which he had willed to
some relative who lived in the north of England,
though I had never heard of her before, and do not
even now know in what manner she was connected
with my father.

He died a comparatively poor man, owing to his
living up to his earnings as a solicitor ; and all
that I stepped into was two hundred and fifty
pounds a year — or thereabouts ; between ourselves,
I may say it was a few pounds short of
that figure. But it was an estate to me who was
absolutely alone in the world, being an only child,
and my mother having died many years before this
story starts. At all events, I reckoned the income
the capital was well invested — large enough to
justify me in heaving my profession overboard and
setting up for myself as a gentleman ashore.

Accordingly I hired a furnished bedroom and
sitting-room in the West End of London, paid
a small subscription, and became member of a
little club, which brought me acquainted with a
number of very good fellows, so that I had
companions enough. And for a year or two this
sort of life suited me very well. It was an immense
escape from the old servitude of the sea;
I was my own master, could do what I pleased, go
where I liked, was responsible to no man ; and I
was never tired of thinking of my liberty and.
enjoying it.

But I am bound to say that, as time crept ou,
I began to consider that I had no business to be
loafing about the West End of London. There
was enough money, perhaps, in two hundred and
fifty pounds a year — to give the income a square
sound — to enable me to take life on the condition
of dining for three-and-sixpence, of cheapening the
obligation of smoking by a judicious admixture of
pipes with cigars, of attending a play or an opera
when a ticket for it was given me, and even going
to a dance, at long intervals, at some houses which
were very hospitably open to me.

But when two years of this easy, idle life had
passed, reflections would steal in. I began to
think my income small, and that I should find it
smaller as I grew older ; for though a youngster
possessed of two hundred and fifty pounds a year
may be thought pretty well off, an old or middle-aged
man cuts but a poor figure on that sum. No
thoughts of marriage had ever entered my head ;
not only because I liked being lord of myself, which
I certainly found no great heritage of woe (possibly
because I never underwent the labour of putting
my hair in curl-papers), but because I had never
met with any girl I could fall in love with.

And here let me say that I cannot recall this
period of my life without a disposition to drop on
my knees and give thanks for my salvation from
the fate that too often befalls idle young men on

small incomes in London and other parts. For
I protest that nothing stood between me and a
dark destiny in the shape of a ballet-girl or a
barmaid, but a tolerable stock of good sense and
a natural aversion front anything vulgar or commonplace
in woman. What hand was there to
save me had I chosen to lounge about bars and
suck the nob of my stick in dreary intimate confab
with the curls, and rouge, and wadding of the
restaurant or the public-house ? I don't mean to
say that barmaid and ballet-girls, and the like,
do not make good wives. I have no doubt they
try their best; but what can they do with their
vulgarity ? How are they to deal with a certain
letter which will recur in conversation like a
circumstance over which they have no control?
I am thankful for being saved from marrying a
lady of this pattern, because I can conceive of no
domestic condition more truly frightful than that
of having a wife of which one is ashamed, whose
conversation in company causes all hands acute
suffering, and who is one of the reasons why one's
friends pity and despise one. I once sat near a
knight, who was also a member of parliament, at
a table full of ladies and gentlemen. The knight's
wife sat over against us ; she had a kind face, but
was a most illiterate woman, yet had been a good
match for the knight when he developed from an
errand-boy into a porter. He had made his

fortune, had educated himself, was a great man
and a fine man, with a strong voice and an
imposing bow ; he was an Irishman, and spoke
of "me colleague the member for Ballywhack ; "
and opposite sat his wife, on whom he had to keep
scowling to remind her that she was there on the
condition that she did not spake. Who would be
in such a position as that Irish knight was?
Fancy having to dragon a wife, not for her
morals, but lest she should open her mouth and
say 'ouse for house, and so forth ! Hence, when
I think of my life in London after I gave up the
sea down to the time when this yarn properly
opens, when I consider the several opportunities
afforded me of giving my name to a fifth-rate
actress, a music-hall singer, a stout, pale, and
golden beauty who drew beer behind a luncheon-bar,
and two or three others whose vocations I
cannot just now recollect, I declare I am ready to
prostrate myself with gratitude over my escape.

Well, I will say no more about this, and belay
any further reference to my growing sensitiveness
on the subject of idleness, and the enlarging conviction
that if ever I was to end as a man qualified
to enjoy life without perpetually overhauling his
purse to see if there were a few shillings in it to
spare, I must turn to and discover some method of
getting money whilst I was young and my health
and spirits good. Enough for the purpose of

these lodgings if I say that in the summer of the
year 18 — I found myself at Clifton, near Bristol,
the guest of an uncle, of whose existence I had
indeed heard, though I had never before set eyes
on him, and my meeting with whom was so odd
and unexpected that I am bound to tell you the
story of it.

CHAPTER II.

MY UNCLE SEYMOUR.

I was standing at the window of my lodgings, near
Regent Street, smoking a cigar and watching the
people pass. It was a very hot day; not a dog
trotted hy but had half a fathom of tongue hanging
from its jaws ; and the heat gave an edge to the
peculiar smell of flue and ancient cookery that
haunts the atmosphere of every London lodging-house.
In short, it was just a day to set a man
dreaming of the country, of shady nooks under
cool trees crowded with twinkling leaves, bees
making a homelike music in the sunshine beyond,
and a smell of wildflowers around ; or, better still,
of the sea-shore, the lip, lipping, and fountain-like
seething of the tide on the brown sand, a mild
breeze, warm as a woman's breath, blowing across
the azure water with enough of strength in it to
keep the pools among the rocks trembling.

Nothing could be pleasant than such thoughts,
and whilst I stood turning them over and resolving
in a mechanical sort of way to up keeleg and make

a stretch for the coast — no matter where — there
comes a cab along the street, stoics under my
"window, and presently a servant bundles into the
room to tell me that a gentleman wishes to see
Mr. Seymour.

He was close behind the girl, and before I could
ask his name she stepped aside and he walked in.
He looked at me very hard, and said, "Is your
name John Sutherland Seymour ? "

I bowed.

Son of Thomas Sutherland Seymour, solicitor
of ," naming the address.

I bowed again, wondering who he was and what
his business could be. He was about fifty-five
years old — perhaps more — had a strong, reddish
beard, heavy eyebrows, and small merry blue eyes.
He had spoken my name with a slight Yankee
drawl in his voice, but his appearance was that of
an Australian — to my fancy at least ; perhaps
because when I was in Australia I had seen men
go dressed as he was, in blue check shirt and
collar, blue serge trowsers, white waistcoat, cloth
coat, square-toed boots, and a large, soft, flapping
wideawake.

John Sutherland Seymour — probably Jack
Seymour?" he repeated; and I said, "Yes, sir;
Jack Seymour, that's my name."

Seymour is my name too," said he. "Can't
you guess who I am ? "

I stared, trying to think.

"Havel been all my life carrying the family
nose about to no purpose?" he cried. "What is
the use of the genuine Roman run, the Seymour
rise — what sailors would call the kink amidships —
if it fails to convict me as a relation ? " And so
saying he struck an attitude in profile with his
forefinger against his nose.

"Is it possible that you are my uncle, Charles
Seymour ?" I exclaimed.

More than possible if you are Tom Seymour's
son?" he answered; and coming up to me he
grasped me by the hand, nearly shook my arm off,
and then, pitching his hat and stick on to a sofa,
plumped himself into a chair.

I welcomed him with as much heartiness as
surprise would let me put into my manner,
endeavouring meanwhile to recollect what I had
heard about him from my father ; how in his youth
he had been packed off to sea as a scapegrace ;
how he had run away from his ship in some China
port, and was heard of five years later as doing
pretty well in New York ; how, very much later
yet, news of him reached my father from Canada
through a gentleman who reported that he was
making money fast. He had never written, and
had been as dead to his family as if he had fallen
overboard and gone to the bottom on his first
voyage.

After a long and very narrow inspection of me,
he said, " Yon are not like your dad, Jack ! "

No," said I, amused to hear him call me Jack.

D'ye see any family likeness in me ?" he asked.

More than enough to swear by," I answered.

He ran his eye over the room, turning his head
about so as to command a round view, and coming
back to me asked if I was married.

No," said I laughing, for there is something in
this question that will make a single man laugh.

"I might guess so. There are no female hints
here, and that pipe," says he, nodding towards
the mantelpiece, " carries, I calculate, at least six
smokes too much in the bowl of it ever to be in the
family line. Where does your father live ? "

"He is dead," I replied.

"Dead!" he exclaimed. "Dead, d'ye say?"
he bent his eyes on the ground and tapped with
his foot. " How long has he been dead ? "

I told him. He continued looking at the floor
with a very grieved and disappointed expression in
his face, and then, returning to his first manner,
said, " I hope he died pretty well off ? "

Why, yes," said I. " Pretty well off, but not
better than pretty well."

Is your mother living ? "

No."

So you're alone ? "

I nodded. He took another look round the

room, and said, "You have all that my brother
Tom left, I presume ? "

Pretty nearly all," I answered, tickled by his
Yankee curiosity, though he asked his questions
with ;so much good nature and sympathy in his
voice and manner that it was impossible to resent
them.

What might that be, sir ? "

A trifle short of two hundred and fifty pounds
a year."

Ah ! " he exclaimed, pulling a chair to him,
and resting one leg upon it. " Time was when I
reckoned Tom would beat me. He had ten times
my brains and fifty times my ballast. He would
be going to windward with his spars erect and
his spanker-boom amidships when I was on my
beam ends, points off my course, and sagging like a
billyboy to leeward. You'll excuse my nautical
similes, nephew. They are not always intelligible,
but I am fond of going to the ocean for my
ideas."

"Head as you please in that way," said I,
laughing. " You'll find me close in your wake."

M Oh, then you understand something about the
sea, do ye ? " says he.

As much as seven and a half years of tailoring
could teach me."

"Damme! " he burst out, "if I didn't think so
right away off when I first looked at you. But

you're not at sea now — you're no longer a sailor,
are you ? "

No. I gave up that life when my father died.
What man worth five pounds a week would keep
at sea as a sailor ? "

Ay, abuse it ! abuse it, my lad," he shouted.
I'm your man to follow every syllable with
breathless enjoyment. Oh for the privilege of
spread-ealing the rogues who write books about
the nautical life, and make it appear a pleasant
calling. Have they dwelt with the sailor in his
forecastle ? have they ever spent two hours in
passing a lee-earing, as flexible as a bar of iron, ina
gale of wind full of ice and the water washing as
high as the lee comings of the main-hatch ? can
they show figure-heads mutilated like ours by
weather that ranges from the roasting calms of the
equator to the hissing snow-whirls and shrieking
hurricanes of the Horn ? "

He pulled a handful of cigars out of his side
pocket, put one into his mouth, and handed the
others to me.

"Mind," he continued, flourishing his cigar,
lowering his voice, knitting his shaggy brows and
speaking with tragic solemnity, " I do not mean
that the wonderful, ay, Jack, the thrilling magic of
the ocean that drew me as a boy "

I always understood you were sent there," I
interrupted.

to its moaning, storm-laden heart," he continued,
slightly cocking his right eye at me, but
taking no further notice of my remark, "has
vanished from my sympathy and love. Davy
forbid ! Man ! I never hear the sullen thunder of
breakers upon the shore, I never look forth upon
the mighty grey or violet or silvery blue shadow
that leans its sweeping line against the haze of the
distant heaven, I never watch the majestic procession
of its towering combers rolling into snow
as they run roaring after one another in the wake
of the rushing and living storm, without a leaping
up of the spirit — an intoxicating sense of being
about six years old — a feeling, I will say, of
triumphant gladness, as though in the mere presence
and voice of the glorious ocean there was
something to deepen and sweeten life at its inmost
sources, and to purify and ennoble the spiritual
part of me, and of you, and of every other living
human creature whose forehead does not slope into
idiocy, with inspirations which come very near to
being revelations."

He watched me with an amused face, as if he
should say, "Come, my young relative, did you
think I could only talk slang through my nose?
"What d'ye say to this as a sample of my parts ? "

"How long have you been in England?" I
asked, hardly' knowing what to make of this
singular and certainly striking compound that was

sitting and smoking before me, and calling itself
my uncle.

Near upon eighteen months."

"And when do you return ? "

Return !— where ? "

Where you come from," said I.

When I die," he answered. " I'm here for the
remainder of my natural life, and let me hope that
your British customs will let it keep natural. Yes,
sire, I'm here to fix. I have a house at Clifton,
near Bristol, close to the Gorge — d'ye know the
Gorge? — something to save one many a journey
out of this shallow little kingdom, as I never look
down into it without reckoning myself abroad in a
nation of real scenery. In my house, Jack, you'll
find an aunt and two cousins, who'll be heartily
glad to make the acquaintance of so fine and manly
a beauty as you, and who'll like you none the
worse for knowing what the smell of tar resembles."

I thanked him.

When can you come ? "

Will next Monday do ? " said I.

To-day will do better. There is a fast train at
six. We can meet at Darlington and travel
together. How long d'ye need to pack up your
silver buckles and pomatum ? "

Now, that "day would have suited me as well as
any other. I had nothing to do, and was eager to
get out of the sickening, sweltering atmosphere of

London. But my dignity was worth something
too. It would not do to jump too eagerly into the
arms of this uncle and his family. Let them talk
of me a little, thought I, before I heave in view,
that I may get some kind of importance out of
their curiosity. So I said I should not be able to
leave London before Monday, on which my uncle
answered, "All right. Suit yourself. We'll lookout
for you on Monday," and gave me his address
on a card.

I inquired how he had managed to find out where
I lived.

"I'll tell you," said he: and he began a long
story of how some months ago he took a directory
and hunted through it for my father's address ;
how he noticed that there were three Thomas
Seymours (without the Sutherland), on whom he
called, but found none of them the man he wanted ;
how he worked his way down through older directories
until he came across Thomas Sutherland
Seymour, solicitor, such and such a street.

This," said he, "I reckoned to be my brother ;
but when I called at the office the clerks they
treated me as if I had come to make fools of them.
They knew nothing of Thomas Sutherland Seymour.
To cut this yarn short, time passed, and I came to
the conclusion that if my brother was alive it was
not the will of Heaven that I should find him. My

wife said, ' It serves you right. You never wrote
vol. i. c

to him, and now that you are anxious to see a
family face again, fate steps in, takes a hitch over a
belaying-pin with the hauling part of your wishes,
and stops the tackle from travelling.' Those," continued
he, after a little pause, during which time
he had slyly watched the face of astonishment I
had put on on hearing that I had an aunt who
could talk in that fashion, "were not exactly her
words, but that is no doubt what she meant. Well,
yesterday I came up from Bristol, and in the railway
carriage met a young man, and got into talk
with him. One thing led to another. I spoke of
my brother, of the bigness of the world when you
want to discover a man, and its littleness when you
don't want a man to discover you. ' What's your
brother's name ? ' asked the young gentleman. I
told him. ' What was he ? ' said he. ' A solicitor,'
says I. ' Well,' said he, ' I know a young
fellow named John Sutherland Seymour, and think
I have heard him say his father was a lawyer. I
don't know his private address, but he belongs to a
club I am member of, and if you care to call I have
no doubt the porter will be able to tell you where
he lives.' That's how I found you out, sir."

Stranger things have happened than that," said
I, " and yet it is extraordinary enough that you
should have met with a man able to cast off the
hauling part of your wishes, and so prove himself
stronger than fate."

11 Similes of that kind recall your old life, hey,
Jack ? Is that why you drag up the words again
and fondle 'eni ? " He came to the window for air,
and said, "Are you in business? Do you do anything
? Are you getting money in any fashion ? "

"No," I replied; " I am an idle man, and I'm
trying to find out whether I ought to be ashamed
of being idle. I'm afraid the sea has unfitted me
for business. I am in hope of cultivating some
promptings in that direction, though upon my
honour I doubt if I have a single quality that
would be of the least use to me in any shore-going
capacity."

u That's very likely," said my uncle. " But what
do you want with business ? Haven't you enough
to live on ? "

"why, perhaps I have. But don't you see,"
said I, slightly warmed by observing that he had
not helped me in the smallest degree in my apology
for doing nothing and being nothing, "that I want
to excuse myself for my idleness, which should
satisfy you that I do not think idleness good ? "

••"What made you give up the sea?" he asked,
laughing behind his beard.

Didn't I explain, sir ? I said it was having an
income left me. Nor was that all. You have been
to sea, and know what the life is. Who would be a
slave ? Yet I was when at sea, as all sailors are-running
here and there to other people's orders,

pulling and hauling, furling, reefing, and greasing.
choked with doughboys and hishee-hashee, snatching
at sleep and catching a wink as a man on a
yard-arm might try to grasp a booby, and managing
to come off with a feather out of the fowl's tail."

Ay," cried my uncle, grinning extravagantly r
and let us hear what shape the slush-pot has,,
and how the head-pump is rigged, and how a man
feels who is one of a short-handed crew when all
hands are called ! Oh, the happiness of passing
a week with the galley-fire washed out, nothing
but frost and sleet and wind on deck, and water
and darkness and streaming togs below, weevils
in the bread-barge, rats in the mess-kids, and
the scuttle-butt smelling as sweet as the Thames
off the Isle of Dogs ; a temperance ship where all
the lush is aft; a shoddy ship whose owners
fall distracted and tear then hair and gnash their
teeth every time the old sieve is reported still
afloat and in league with the underwriters."

Then, looking at me very gravely, " Pray, young
man," says he, " where did you get your gab
from ? Not from my brother Tom ? "

"I must have got it from you," I replied; "it
is evidently in the family."

"Well," says he, "all that I can say is, a young
fellow who can talk as you do ought to find life
larger than the West End of London. How do
you pass your days ? "

I knock about," I answered, laughing heartily,
for there was something so funny in his manner
that it was like talking to a comedian.

• • Why don't you get married ? If I were your
-age and had all the world before me, I'd view
marriage as an industry, and start in business
as a husband. Make no mistake, Jack. There
are are some decent pickings to be found in that
calling." He saved me from replying by pulling
out his watch and exclaiming, " I have an appointment
at four. I'm sorry you can't manage
to meet me at Haddington. But we shall see
you on Monday ?"

Without fail, sir, all being well."

He laid hold of my hand, and viewing me
earnestly said, with a singular kindness and
gravity of voice and manner, " Jack, I'm glad to
have found you — glad to have met my brother's
laddie. Old memories rise whilst I talk and see
you standing up in front of me, a big man. Think
of Tom having been dead three years ! It makes
me feel as if a century had passed since I was
a boy. I ought to have written to him — I ought
to have made myself heard of — there's much I
should have done. But see here, Jack. God's peace
be with him ! d'ye know it was he who would
chime in with your grandfather against me ; tell
the old man that the sea was the only fit place
for such a rapscallion as I — for such a skylarking

son of a gun who was always kissing the servant
girls, running into debt with landlords, and coming
home with dancing eyes and light heels at one
o'clock in the morning? He was right, and the
old man was right ; hut I'll tell you a big truth,
Jack. It's possible for folks to be right and to
be wrong too. Man alive! I was not a rascal,
but a loose human arrangement with the makings
of a fellow-creature in me; an unravelled rope
whose strands wanted twisting up and whose end
wanted whipping; and when I came to be a
man, got a bit of money, married and passed
into what ye might call a municipal entity — a
thing interested in rates, drainage, and fellow-townsmen
— the bile would rise in my gorge when
I thought of Thomas and home, and I never
could bring myself to hold out my hand in a
letter. It was a traditional prejudice, but I left
it t'other side the water when I sailed with the
wife and the girls for the old country. Another
day you shall tell me where my brother rests.
Meanwhile, God bless ye, and — and don't fail us
on Monday next."

So saying he pulled on his wide awake, grasped
his stick, and scuttled out of the room, trotting
downstairs so nimbly as to defy my efforts to
pass him in order to be first with the hall door.

CHAPTER III.

I GO TO CLIFTON.

This conversation with my uncle took place
before my story properly opens, and if I were
an artist, perhaps I should leave it out for that
reason ; but apart from its being as good as a
joke, and showing besides how it happened that
I went on a visit to Clifton, it enables me to
tell you in a pleasing manner a good deal
about myself, and likewise it explains who my
uncle was, and why he was a stranger to me.

You may talk as you please about the beauty
of foreign parts. I've seen some grand shows
in that way in my time, as what sailor has not?
But had I never viewed anything finer than Clifton
— that part of it, I mean, which they call the
Gorge — I should still be able to boast of having
beheld as lovely a bit of nature as any part of the
world has to offer. "What fixes it in my memory
was the sunset. I had tumbled into an open
rly — quite a genteel turn-out — along with my

portmanteau, and when we had climbed a steep
hill and had got on top of it and rolled along
some distance, I stood up and saw a sky full of
the magnificence of a score of glorious colours,
against which the heavy foliage and green heights
which tower above the valley, in whose heart
the silver Avon (at . flood-tide, mind you) winds
like a stream of mercury, stood out dark,
massive, dense, the gold of the sky trembling
among the fibrine fringe of the wooded acclivities;
and layers or folds of emerald, sapphire,
rose, scarlet like incandescent iron, sunlight
effulgence like that of molten steel in a retort
swept by-the hurricane of a steam-created blast,
stretching their most beautiful lengths along
until their extremities faded in the black vapour
of a huge cloud, from whose sooty, stooping belly
green sparks of lightning were crackling and
glittering, whilst the thunder moaned like the voice
of a lion heard roaring in pain in some distant
resonant forest.

The house abreast of which the driver hove his
horse to was a small mansion, with about an acre
of ground in front of it full of flowers, high trees, a
fountain, and so forth. A man-servant in a black
suit and white necktie opened the door, and I
marched in, but was scarcely entered when my
uncle, rushing along, received me with a shout of
welcome, and dragged me, travel-stained as I

was, into a large and exceedingly elegant drawing-room.


There were four ladies there, one middle-aged, the
others young, one of these a caller, as I supposed,
with a small, fat, very old dog, sleek as a rat, at
her feet. This tottering creature hard its teeth as
we entered, and delivered a few strange wheezy
notes, on which the young lady cried "Down, you
silly dog ! hush, you foolish old Flora ! " and in
the midst of this my uncle introduced me.

The middle-aged lady was my aunt, a tall
woman, still handsome, with plenty of black hair,
dark eyes, a fine figure, and wearing what women
call " a train," so long that the end of it remained
at her chair after she had risen and advanced
some paces to meet and welcome me. Two of the
others were my cousins, both of them plump, fair
girls, not pretty, but with very kind faces and
pleasant smiles. I liked their manners amazingly
I mean I heartily relished the way in which they
received me ; no affectation, no hanging back, no
smirking, and yet there was a pretty modesty in
their air, too.

But the third young lady ! My uncle on introducing
me to her had called her Miss Hawke, and
I learnt what her Christian name was by one of
my cousins saying, " Don't mind her, Florence
dear," when her dog barked, and she rebuked the
infirm old beast. Florence Hawke, then, was her

name, and when you get deeper into this book —
which you are bound to do, for a stranger yarn you
never read in your life — you'll understand why I
have it so pat and am able to write it down without
scratching the back of my head and looking
aloft for the words.

How am I to describe her ? Mates, on the
honour of a gentleman who would not tell a lie to
gratify the conceit of the finest woman living, I
swear that in my opinion Florence Hawke was
the sweetest little creature at that or any other
time to be found in this country. And why do I
call her little ? Faith, she was not so little either.
When we stood side by side the top of her sunny
aromatic head was on a level with my ear. But
little, somehow, is the adjective that will come
shoving into my thoughts when I speak of her,
because, perhaps, of the winning simplicity of her
manner, the childlike earnestness of her, her pretty
delightful ways, which had a certain charming
babyishness about them.

I say, how am I to describe her ? If all the
colours the very royalist academician now living
knows how to mix would fail — as don't I know they
would? — to give you the exquisite delicate bloom
on her cheeks, the velvet, pearly whiteness of her
ears, throat, forehead, the rich brown and gold of
her plentiful, beautiful hair, the sweet clear carving
of her nostrils and brow, the dark yet luminous

gray of her large eyes, oh ! not to mention the soul
in them, the flashing spirit of intelligence, the
magic play of emotion, what am I to do with ink ?
What am I to make of such perfections when I
have no better brush in my hand than a pen to
paint them with ? And yet, though it is more
than twenty years ago, I see her as she turned to
bow and smile, when my uncle introduced me, as
plainly now as I did then — the very pretty hat, the
long black feather tenderly coiling over the back of
her hair towards her neck as if to kiss it, the plaid
dress — no, not plaid, check I mean, small black
and white bars crossing, the material, — silk would
it be ? — fitting her like the glove upon her hand,
and expressing without emphasizing (as every good
dressmaker knows how) just the type of figure a
man's eye loves to dwell on ; a really beautiful
shape with a perfectly proportioned waist, not one
of those hiatuses in the meaning of the female
body which bequeaths all the sense that ought to
lie amidships to the hips. Yes, I see her now as I
saw her then, and yet I cannot describe her. A
great pity, for on my word of honour she was the
sweetest woman living, and ought to be handled
by an artist instead of a shell-back still smelling of
the pitch-kettle.

Well, the talk, of course, would be mere commonplace
at this start. My aunt expressed her joy
at her husband having found me out; she was

delighted to see me ; did I know Clifton ? she
was sure I should be charmed with the scenery,
and so on. And then my uncle hurst forth :
"Cone, Jack, let me show you your room. We
dine at eight, which is an hour later than usual,"
and we went upstairs.

If my visit were going to make any lengthened
portion of this story, I should be tempted to write
a page or two about this house in which I found
my uncle and his family living, for nothing corn-deter
and better in its wa r have I ever seen. I
admired everything as I went upstairs, my uncle
showing the road with a delighted face — the fine
stone staircase, the conservatories, the decorations,
and the like — until we came to a large bedroom
lighted by a number of candles, as handsome a
room as a king's guest could expect, and, in this
country, perhaps a better than he would get, with
an open window looking on to the front grounds,
which lay dark in the shadow of the twilight, a
hundred sweet scents floating up out of them on
the dew-laden folds of air that stirred softly. The
stars were dropping into their places, a faint haze
of crimson lingered in the west, and now and again
the sky was tinged with the delicate violet glare of
lightning; and pretty amid the stillness was the
tinkling music played by the fountain.

"After London," said I, "this is indeed
delightful ! "

Well, ray boy, you are heartily welcome — most
heartily welcome," exclaimed my uncle, clapping
me on the shoulder. " Don't trouble to dress for
dinner; we're very homely — at least I am, and
hate any kind of fuss."

He then went away, and shortly afterwards I
followed him to the drawing-room, where I found
all the family but my Cousin Amelia, Miss Hawke,
as I supposed, having left. I took a seat near my
mint, and was about to tell her how surprised I
had been by her husband's visit, when something
under my chair touched my leg. I hopped up, and
on looking perceived that it was Miss Hawke's old
terrier.

M What did you think, Jack — that it was a rat ? "
cried my uncle, laughing at the manner in which I
had whipped on to my feet.

Isn't it Miss Hawke's dog ? " said I.

11 Yes," replied my aunt ; " we have induced her
to stay and dine with us."

Not the dog, but Miss Hawke, Jack"' said my
uncle.

'don't you think her very pretty, Mr. Seymour?"
said my Cousin Sophie.

"Mr. Seymour!" shouted my uncle; "whoever
heard a girl call her cousin ' mister * before ? My
dear Sophie, yonder young fellow is your Cousin
Jack ; pray call him so, and make him feel that he
is with relatives."

"Ay, please do," said I.

She blushed and laughed and said, "Very well,
I will call you Jack."

Yes, Sophie," I replied, plumping out her name,
I do think Miss Hawke very pretty — wonderfully
pretty."

You're right, nephew," said my uncle ; "in all
my travels I never came across anything sweeter —
the object of my earliest affections alone excepted,"
giving his wife a bow.

She's an Australian," said my aunt.

Indeed ! " I exclaimed, though why I should
have said " Indeed ! " in a tone of surprise I really
do not know, for is not Australia as rich in pretty
women as any other country or continent — allowing
for numbers ?

Yes," said my aunt ; " she was born in Australia.
Her father made his money out there, and we believe
he is a very rich man. He lives in a fine house a
short walk from here."

I made his acquaintance in a j journey to London,"
said my uncle. " His Christian name is Alphonse,
and I have heard Florence talk of one Damages
Hawke, an aunt who lives in Australia. What d'ye
think, Jack, of Alphonso and Damaris as a pair of
names for a small tea-party ? He's a pompous old
chap — between you and me, a bit of a prig — with
strong aristocratic leanings ; man, you should see
his crest ! Yet, in spite of my democratic wide-awake

and the republican cut of my jib," said lie,
looking down at his clothes, which were of the same
pattern as those he had worn when he called upon
me, " he was pleased to exchange cards, and on his
return from town called with his daughter''

"What I like most in Florence Hawke," said
Sophie, " is her unaffectedness. She is very pretty,
she will no doubt be very rich, but she is quite unspoiled,
and as artless and simple as a little girl."

She will of course have many admirers"' said I.

She might have, you may take your affidavit,"
answered my uncle, " but her father's a taut hand,
my girls say, and nobody dare go near. AYhafs the
name of the youngster, Sophia, old Hawke is tacking
to fetch •? "

Reginald Moreeorabe," replied my aunt. " His
father is a baronet, and Mr. Reginald will get the
title. There's something I do not much like in
views of that kind in parents. I have only met
Mr. Moreconibe once, but once was enough to discover
that he is a very simpering young man,
rather conceited, very much given to boasting
about what he and Mr. Hawke call blood, and
quite capable, no doubt, of believing that he would
be doing this beautiful girl much honour by taking
her papa's money in exchange for his name"'

Self-made Australians are generally fond of
titles"' said Sophie.

"We're all fond of titles," said I. " I for one

should be well pleased to be • a lord ; not because I
value the rank, but because I value the world's
valuation of it."

In my opinion," observed my aunt, " the very
worst man a girl can have for a husband is a fool."

Quite right," said my uncle ; "a woman can
never get lower than that."

But Florence has to marry Mir. Morecombe first,,
mamma," said Sophie.

At this point of a conversation that was both
interesting and instructive Miss Hawke and Amelia
came in. Amelia was stouter, let me say fatter,
than Sophie; she had three chins and a bust as
plump as the bows of a galliot. I doubt if Miss
Hawke could have chosen a better contrast for her
own delightful shape, and as they entered and
crossed the room side by side, I not only found
my eyes rivetted to the beautiful face of this young
Australian lady, and my head rotating after her, as
you may see a little metal duck in a basin of water
follow a magnet, but I was surprised by a queer
fluttering sensation under my waistcoat ; a feeling
as if my heart had got out of gear and were rolling
about on a ground swell of emotion.

However, no time was allowed me to consider
what this might mean. Scarcely had the young
ladies entered, when the man-servant was seen
standing in the door, exclaiming that dinner was
ready. We trooped into the dining-room, my aunt

on ray arm and Miss Hawke on my uncle's, and
took our seats. Here was another fine apartment,
with large portraits of Mr. and Mrs. Seymour facing-each
other, and the soft light of wax candles and
sperm oil to dine hy. Miss Hawke sat opposite me,
just clear of the flowers in the centre of the table,
so that I had her full in sight throughout the dinner.
I will not say that she looked more bewitching
without her hat ; let her go dressed as she chose
she would have been fascinating — upon my word,
even my uncle's wide awake would have become
her ! But if she did not look more bewitching,
she was not less so now that her hair was exposed, .
with its dainty little parting on the left side vanishing
amid a soft mass of clustering fluffy silken locks
on her white forehead, and coils of thick plaits
crowning her, and a rose — a small newly-blown
rose — glimmering like a jewel among those most
lovely folds.

For the first time that ever I can remember I
felt nervous in the presence of a lady — yes, this
girl sitting opposite to me, and bringing from time
to time the whole broadside of her beauty and
intelligence to bear by letting her eyes rest on me
with a kind of inquiry in them, as if she were
quietly taking stock of the young glorified chap
fronting her, and wondering if he was really a
nautical man, and if not, what business he had in
seeming one ; I say, that at the start Miss Florence

VOL. I. d

Hawke made me feel as shy as a schoolboy at an
evening party. Positively, at one moment I was
so nervous that I did not dare lift a glass of wine
for fear of spilling it over what a tailor would call
my continuations.

Fortunately for me, however, my uncle talked
incessantly, so that what with having to listen to
him, and what with having to attend to what the
servants put before them, the others were too busy
to notice my manner. At all events, I thought so,
and that helped me greatly in working myself onto
a level keel again.

All the conversation at the going off was about
my father, about my uncle's discovery of me, and
so forth.

"How nice it must be, Mr. Seymour, to meet
with relations unexpectedly ! " said Miss Hawke
to me.

"Yes," I stammered, "very nice indeed — at
least, I mean, it depends." And here, seeing that
I bade fair to make an ass of myself, I laid hold of
my nerves and said, " When I say depends, I
should explain, Miss Hawke, that relations unexpectedly
met are not always nice. As an instance,
imagine a man addressing a room full of electors ;
he wants the voters to believe him not only a Tory
but a well-connected man. In the midst of his
speech a noise is heard, and a woman, disguised
in liquor, with a bonnet on her back, shoves through

the door, saying, ' I have a right to be here ; he is
my brother ! '"

This produced a laugh, and reminded my uncle
of an anecdote, the telling of which took the conversation
off the course it had been steering, for
which I was grateful, as I was nervous and apt on
such a topic as relations to be yauche, and even
offensive, without meaning it. My aunt now asked
me questions about myself — how long had I been
at sea? what induced me to abandon it? what
Darts of the world I had sailed into ? My answers
were listened to with great attention ; indeed, my
two cousins took a most flattering interest in me,
and by a kind of sisterly sympathy of smile and
look — I do not know how else to describe a manner
that was immediately and pleasantly sensible to me
made me feel, long before we had finished dinner,
that I had known them since they were children.

I saw Miss Hawke round her lovely eyes when I
talked of the sea, and mentioned having been to
Sydney, New South Wales.

"What did you think of the bay?" she asked.
4t Is it not lovely ? I was born in Sydney ; but it
is not because that town is my native place that I
consider its bay must be the beautifully scene in
the world. 1 '

"It is beautiful ! " I exclaimed warmly, excited
into enthusiasm by her advocacy. Had she praised
the kangaroo for its graceful movements, I should

have sworn that the capers of a Taglioni or a
Vestries were not a patch upon the poetical motions
of that animal. " Do you know it, uncle ? "

"Well," answered he, "it is very fine, but it
don't come up to Eio."

"Oh yes, it does," said I. "Miss Hawke, be
quite easy ; Sydney Bay tops the whole world's
scenery for beauty."

My uncle laughed, and so did my aunt, and I
saw my cousins exchange a faint smile, all which
made me suppose that something more was to be
seen in my manner than I had any idea was visible
or even existing. I cast my eyes down and revolved
a wine-glass on the table, whilst my uncle
asked Miss Hawke if she liked sailors.

Miss Haw Ice. Very much indeed.

My Uncle. That's brave. Whenever I recall
my old profession I love to believe that the ladies
like sailors.

Sophie. Sailors are so unconventional ; I always
think them the best society in the world, for that
reason. There is no nonsense, no hunting about
for compliments and neat sayings. What they
feel they say. And then their conversation is full
of colour, for they are always travelling and seeing
something new. I like sailors. (With emphasis).

Amelia. So do I.

Myself. I wish I were still at sea ; I should be
able to bow to all this.

My Uncle. I say, nephew, what d'ye think of
Sophie's idea of Jack's talk being full of colour ?
(Here he tipped me a wink.) Is it full of colour
when the scuttle is thumped in a gale of wind to
the roar of "All hands ! Tumble up, my lively
hearties ! Don't wait to shave ! " '?

Miss Hawke (laughing). I have heard that cry
of "All hands! " What a pity there is no shortcut
to Australia ! Cape Horn is very dreadful !
Coming to England this time we nearly ran into
an iceberg in a snow-storm.

My Aunt (clasping her hands). Just think if
}*ou had run into it !

Mysdf. How often have you made the voyage,
Miss Hawke ?

Miss Hawke. Twice.

Myself. Are you likely to return to Australia ?

Miss II niche. I think not. I cannot say. Papa
will certainly never return to stop there. He
prefers England.

My Uncle. And you ?

Miss Hawke. I like Clifton; but I wish we
could get the Australian climate here. It is always
either too hot or too cold.

Myself. Do you not prefer London to the
country ?

Miss Hawke. No; and papa hates London.

My Uncle. And so do I. Life is too stiff in
London. Here, if I Wear a wide awake nobody takes

any notice ; in London people stare as if I were a
patriot. And look, Miss Florence, how easily and
pleasantly one forms acquaintances and makes
friends in the country. "We have not been here
very long, and already we know many persons, and
one delightful lady (bowing to her), who kindly
takes us as we are, dispenses with all the formalities
which would hedge her about in London, and make
her charming society a luxury to be obtained only
at long intervals.

My Aunt (speaking doubtfully). I should net
very much care to live in London. The society
that is worth having is very difficult to get.

My Uncle. And when got, not worth having.

Miss Hawke. Papa likes ceremony, but I don't.
I enjoy unexpected things : an impromptu carpet-dance,
dining out as I am now. When you are asked
to anything, you anticipate the pleasure of it, and
that is why set affairs are often disappointing.

My Uncle. We are unconventional enough. I
never could endure any fuss. My wife and I have
had to rough it in a country where people who
suffer from corns have no business to live ; for
boots over there are heavy, and folks are given to
shoving and stamping. My daughters are like
their parents ; they take short views and simple
ones. Sophie — Amelia — your health, my loves.
May you marry men of sense, and live for yourselves
instead of for your neighbours. (He smiled

affectionately at them over a glass of claret.) When
do you expect your father back, Miss Florence ?

Miss Hawke. To-sorrow.

My Aunt. Will he bring Emily with him ?

Miss Hawke. Yes; and Mr. Morecombe.

My cousins exchanged looks, and the merest
shadow of a smile flitted over Miss Hawke's sweet
mouth as she stole a glance at Sophie. Evidently
this Mr. Morecombe was a not wholly unfamiliar
topic amongst these three young ladies.

Don't you feel alone in your big house ? "
asked my uncle.

No," she answered, " I never feel dull. I
rather like being alone — sometimes."

Evidently she has no mother, thought I. By
this time my nervousness had worn off, and I could
take peeps at her with some degree of confidence.
Why did fate place me plump opposite her ? I
would look from her to the beautiful cluster of
flowers in the middle of the table, and from them
to her, until the most exquisite of God's t works—
a lovely woman's face and the shining tints and
sweet forms of flowers and foliage — were combined
in one impression ; so that never after could I
think of her without associating her image with
the white and violet and purple petals which filled
the room with a fragrance that seemed to meas
the breath from her delicate lips.

But, you tarpaulin, you ! This is too fine ! This

is the mere ecstasy of parish clatter ! Was I in
love with her then that I should write down all this
aromatic stuff in this place ? Alas ! What do I
know ? Put me on my oath and I will say — Yes !
I was. in love ; my peace of mind was gone ! I
had met my fate, and sat beholding it with a
thumping heart.

By-and-by the ladies left the room, and a box of
cigars was put upon the table. My uncle opened
the tall folding windows, through which you could
step on to the lawn, and we stood together to get
the air, smoking and looking at the night. There
was a small moon behind the house ; the sky was
very black and full of stars ; far away in the quarter
we faced there was a faint play of sheet lightning,
scarcely more vivid than the silvery flash of the
meteors which broke out from the dark air under
the stars and sailed away in a line of spangles ; a
delicious country silence reigned around, broken
only by the distant quick throbbing and rumbling
noise of a locomotive dragging a train of carriages,
and by the cool plashing of a fountain, and by
the rich notes of a nightingale piping hard by

Can't you understand why I prefer this sort of
thing to London? " exclaimed my uncle, speaking
through his nose, with the Yankee drawl I had
noticed in him when we first met.

"Of course I do," I replied; "I would not
exchange this for London if I had it."

"Pompous as old Hawke is, lie's not an ass,"
continued my uncle. "He sticks to Clifton, which
proves that he has intellect. He lives in a finer
house than this, though he has not the same extent
of ground. We'll go and dine with him some of
these nights. He's hospitable enough, but a
damned old prig. He wants to get a title into his
family, and get it he will, though he has to drag it
in by the head and ears, and perhaps half murder
the poor girl he calls upon to help him."

I heard Miss Hawke say that young Mr.
Morecombe was coming tomorrow with the old
fellow," said I. " How long has this been going
on?"

What d'ye mean ? How long has young More-combe
been on the happy, as Johnny Crapaud
says ? "

"Ay."

Two or three months, I reckon."

Has he proposed ? "

Lord love ye, how do I know ? but I should
say not. This is fine tobacco, Jack. Real cigars,
I cal these."

"Yes," said I; "they are very fine indeed.
What was Mr. Hawke ? "

Well, I believe he made his money as a
squatter. He is quiet about his beginning;
possibly he's ashamed of having 'got money by
working for it. I reckon he squatted. There's

squatting in his soul ; it may be traced in his walk,
and followed, as the poet says, in his smile."

Have you ever met his friend, Mr. More-combe
? " said I, trying to make believe that I
asked these questions merely for the sake of talking,
and that I would just as soon speak of consols,
or take his views on the molasses market.

Once ; I dined with him at Hawke's. A
puppy, sir ; a poor creature with a parting down
the middle of its hair and a glass in its eye, and
immense stiff stick-up shirt-collars. Hawke will
not get his daughter to have him, he may be
cocksure of that. She is destined for a man, not
for a monkey. How social she is ! This evening
Sophie, who was among the flowers, saw her pass
and called her in. And then she stays and dines
without requiring any further pressing than a plain
Will you ? ' That's the sort of friendliness I
like in man or woman. And my eye, nephew!
what a face, hey ? If I were only a quarter of a
century younger — if I were only a single man ! "

He made several motions with his arms, that by
dumbshow he might express the ecstasy his imagination
flung him into, then smelt to his cigar and
said that he defied any importer in the country ta
beat that brand.

I felt that he was just one of those men whom
a young fellow could bare his soul to ; and nothing
prevented me from telling him how desperately

impressed I was by Miss Florence Hawke but the
consideration that he had daughters of his own.
He presently gave me a chance of expressing my
admiration of my cousins by speaking of his wife.

How d'ye like her, Jack ? "

I cannot tell you how much. She is all kindness
; and is she not a very clever woman ? "

Well, if a man wears a diamond on his finger
there is no reason why he should talk about it as
if he were a jeweller," said he. " Sophia is my
wife : and that fact belays all I should like to say
about her. But one thing I'll assert — a really
woman doesn't walk the surface of this globe.
There may be women as real, but nothing really.
There are no half-laughs and pursers' grins about
her. She's straight up and down, both ends of
her bolted and clinched in the cast-iron of solid
principles. Yes, sire, your aunt's a woman;
a Canadian, sir — the daughter of a colony whose
females are clippers of the first quality, handsome
in make, swift in action, staunch in build, faithful
to the hand that steers 'em. And though it's not
for me to call your attention to such matters — more
particularly as they are perfectly obvious — yet let
me suggest that, considering her age, you have
probably met younger women, reckoned handsome
in their way, without her figure, her taste in dress,
and her complexion. Eh ?"

I fully agreed and said, "And your daughters?

Have you no word for them? I declare I have
never seen kinder faces, nor been charmed by
gentler and more winning manners."

"Ay, they are very well, they are very well'
he exclaimed in a soft voice. " They are good
girls. They have sound hearts. I thank God for
that. A parent has no right to expect more."
• And whilst we finished our cigars he told me of
his early struggles, what a noble helpmate he had
in his wife, to whom he had been married five-and-twenty
years ; and then talked of my father,
and asked questions about my mother, who she
was, what relatives I had on her side, and so
forth. But it was now time to pitch the end of
our cigars away and join the ladies, who we
found in chairs round the tall open windows,
listening to the faint strains of a distant band of
music audible on this side of the house only.

"What's that they are blowing?" inquired my
uncle.

"It sounds like 'God save the Queen'" said
Sophie.

"Has Australia a national song?" asked my
aunt.

Why, of course — ' God save the Queen,'
mamma," said Amelia.

No, excuse me," said I ; " the Australian
anthem is ' Cheer up, Sam.' "

What ! " cried my uncle ; " d'ye mean ' Cheer

up, Sain, don't let your spirits go down ? ' Is my
nephew right, Miss Florence ? "

We put ' God save the Queen ' first, I believe,"
she answered, laughing ; " but everybody
in Australia is fond of ' Cheer up, Sam ! ' "

This led to my aunt asking Miss Hawke to sing,
to which she consented on condition that Amelia
sang first. So my cousin went to the piano and
piped in a small blithe note about some merry,
merry man who broke an unfortunate girl's heart,
and yet continued very merry, ri fol de lol !
proving what odious rogues merry, merry men are.
Then Miss Hawke, after a little hesitation and a
timid peep at me with her lovely eyes, took her
place and warbled a ballad. I have no recollection
of the air; I do not remember that I gathered
what the poetry was about ; but for all that I
considered it the divinest song I had ever heard.
Was it some commonplace tune ? were the words
of the album type — the Letitia-Elizabeth-Landon-
and-broken-heart-and-dishevelled-ringlets school ?
Very like, very like ; but no incomparable Italian
artist singing some air of matchless beauty could
have overwhelmed me with such emotions as those
raised in me by Miss Hawke' s simple, pretty voice,
the airy, graceful, flower-like pose of her figure,
her white hands, with a ring or two on them,
trembling like blown snow-flakes which glittered
with the sparkle of ice-crystals as they moved over

the ivory keys, her rich hair taking a ruddy tinge
of gold from the soft lamplight, the sweetest of
little feet coquetting with the pedals.

I protest, when I think of her I long like
Werther to take my flowing locks in both hands
and pour out my soul. Dissembling was idle.
When more than a man's heart will hold is
poured into it, then, like any other vessel — a hook-pot
or a washing-tub — it will overflow. I was
perfectly sensible that there was a note of something
exceedingly like impassioned admiration in
the thanks I added to those of the others for her
song ; but I could not help it. Amelia looked at
me, Sophie at her mother, and her mother fanned
herself. Miss Hawke said, "You are too kind,
Mr. Seymour, to praise me so warmly ; my voice
is a very poor one ; " whilst my uncle observed,
I don't know ; it looks to me as if Jack had a
cultivated taste ; " on which I gave a wild laugh.

Miss Hawke then somewhat bashfully asked if
I would sing. (What ! before ladies ? thought I.
Never !) I told her that my knowledge of music
did not enable me to reach to anything higher
than a windlass chorus.

Then, give us one of the old changes," exclaimed
my uncle. " ' Haul the Bowline,' or
Whiskey, Johnny,' or ' Eun, let the Bullying run.'
Why, the mere sound of those old songs takes me
back forty years, and I seem to be standing in the

lee scuppers up to my neck, or holding on with
my eyelids as I try to roll up the fore-royal
single-handed."

However, I declined to sing, and they gave up
pressing me. Tea was brought in, and we sat
with cups and saucers in our hands talking a
variety of small beer, until Miss Hawke, pulling
a watch of the size of a sixpence fi*om her waistband,
said that it was getting late — she must go
home ; whereupon my uncle said he would walk
with her to her house, and half turned to me ina
manner that made me hope he was going to
ask me to join him ; but instead he observed, " I
shan't be above twenty minutes, Jack. Don't goto
bed ; we'll have a cigar when I return." Of
course I endeavoured to look satisfied and happy,
though I would cheerfully have given up smoking
for a month for the privilege of helping him to see
Miss Hawke home.

Well, presently she came down dressed, looking
lovely in the lamplight in her bewitching hat,
and said good-night to us, and I saw my uncle
linking in the hall with his wide awake on, and
wished him at Jericho for leaving me behind.
She left the room, but came back in a moment,
crying out in her melodious way, " Oh, I have
forgotten Flora ! Where's my ducky Flora ? "

My uncle whistled, my aunt made a noise like
a hen, and my cousins peered about. I looked

under the sofa, and found the old creature snugged
up into a ball and snoring like a young negro.

"Here's Flora," said I, dropping on one knee,
meaning to haul the animal out and gallantly
place her in her mistress's arms ; but the moment
I touched the aged beast, that was evidently very
deaf, she staggered on to her legs with her tail on
end like an ensign staff on a ship's stern, snapped
at my hand, and went reeling under the sofa into
the room, backing away, and making a most
horrible faint barking noise.

"Don't be afraid, Mr. Seymour," said Miss
Hawke ; " she's the sweetest, most harmless, the
dearest old thing — aren't you, Flora?" and she
took the quivering, grinning, terrified, deaf, asthmatical
old brute to her heart, and put her lips to
the worn-out skin of the creature's head and
fondled it. She then went away for good, giving
us all a beautiful smile as she quitted the room,
and I sat down with my aunt and cousins to chat
with them until my uncle returned.

Chapter IV.

SOME SACRED MUSIC.

I went to bed at half-past eleven that night. My
aunt, in the most affectionate manner, hoped I
would sleep well ; my cousins bade me good-night
with the kindness of sisters ; my uncle accompanied
me to my bedroom in order to see that I was properly
cared for, and parted from me with every
manifestation of cordial pleasure at my presence,
begging me to feel completely at home, to do as I
pleased, to ask for whatever I wanted, to enjoy
myself thoroughly, and to stay as long as ever I
chose.

Could mortal uncle say more to a nephew ? Aud
what a delightful, fragrant, breezy bedroom was
mine ! And yet, though I was in bed by twelve,
the lights out, not a sound to disturb me outside
save it were now and again a moan of night-wind
to rustle the flowers under the window and shake
their sweetness into the dark, star-laden air, I did
not close my eyes in sleep till four o'clock.

VOL. i. e

No Chancery litigant whose three years' suit is
in all probability to end next day ; no young actor
whose first appearance in London is fixed for the
following night ; no distracted tradesman with
several heavy bills, renewed ad nauseam, falling
due next morning, could have plunged and rolled
upon his mattress more wearily and sleeplessly
than I. To say that I was so much in love with
Florence Hawke as to be unable to close my eyes
through thinking of her would be to say a little too
much. If ever a man fell in love at first sight,
I did ; I'll not deny it. I thought Miss Hawke a
beautiful creature, with the manner of a queen and
the sweetness of an angel ; and I was in love with
her, though a few hours before I had never heard
of her ; I had not the least idea that there was
such a person in the world. But I am not going
to pretend that I was such an emotional, impressionable,
sentimental swab that I could be robbed
of my sleep right away out of hand by the first
pretty woman I had ever seen, whom I felt I could
marry and live happily with ever after.

And yet she was responsible for my sleeplessness,
too, for I lay thinking of her until I thought
myself into broad wakefulness, though I had gone
tired to bed, as a man who may be hungry at his
usual hour for dining finds his appetite gone if the
dinner be long delayed. Being of a somewhat
imaginative mind, I pictured her as forced by her

father into accepting Mr. Morecombe, and I
thought of myself as going to the rescue and
attacking old Hawke and withering him up with a
thousand penetrating and scathing sarcasms, and
my humour actually carried me into the imagination
of horsewhipping young Morecombe for being
rude to me. What wit visits one in bed where it is
of no use ! What conflicts one has there with
one's enemies in the silence of night, and how
victorious one always is !

However, I fell asleep at last, and when I was
called by a servant was thankful to find that the
night was gone, and my job of kicking the bedclothes
about done for the time being. There
must be something very noxious and nauseous in
the London air to make the breezes of the country
or the seaside the delights they are to Cockney
nostrils. Spite of my night of broken rest, I felt a
stone lighter in weight as I moved about the room
dressing myself. The atmosphere was delicious :
a warm, aromatic tide that hummed pleasantly
through the window, and was full of the chanting
of bees, radiant with the tossing and blown flight
of butterflies, and there was a sound of the throbbing
life of Bristol city pulsing in it.

I found my relations in the breakfast-room : not
one of those gloomy subterranean chambers so
called which you find in London houses, and which
are occupied by the blackberries when the family

U. OF ILL LIB.

are away, but a handsome, cheerful apartment
made green and cool by the shadows of some trees
which stood close against that side of the house.
I was warmly greeted, and answered the kind
inquiries as to the night I had passed by saying
that when I fell asleep I slept like a top, which was
true enough.

I'll tell you," said my uncle, " how you may
kill the time here. There is a fast mare in the
stable at your disposal whenever you have a mind
for a canter. Can you ride ? "

Yes, if there's pommel enough to hold on by."

Then there is a snug phaeton in which you can
drive yourself and your aunt and your cousins
round the country — I don't mean Great Britain, but
the neighbourhood. There is the club at Bristol.
I have put your name down, and you can use it
whilst you are here. You have the sea within easy
reach. Wales is not far off, and you can fetch any
of the Channel ports whenever you like by steamer
from Bristol. I don't know whether we shall be
able to manufacture any dances for you — we
have not been here long enough to be able to fill
a room — but dinners I think we can promise ;
and what further programme can we make out,
Sophia ? "

Nothing farther is wanted," said I. "It is
already most hospitably abundant."

Presently my aunt said something about Florence

Hawke, and asked Amelia at what hour that day
Mr. Hawke was expected.

"At five or six this afternoon," was the reply.
There's an anthem I much want to hear to be
sung at service this morning in the Cathedral, and
T arranged yesterday with Florence to go. We
shall walk there, and her carriage will fetch us."

"Will you take me?" said I. "Nothing
delights me so much as sacred music."

By all means come," answered my kind cousin.

"Miss Hawke, I hope, won't think me intrusive?"
said I.

Why should she ? " exclaimed the hearty, good-natured
Sophie.

"Intrusive! You mean complimentary," observed
my uncle. " D'ye suppose, man, she'll
reckon you go for the love of music ? "

The downrightness of this somewhat abashed me.
"But I should like to hear the music," said I;
and is not the Cathedral worth seeing? "

Never was in it," he answered.

"I am thinking," said my aunt, addressing her
husband, and then looking at her daughters as if
seeking for encouragement to deliver what was in
her mind, "that Mr. Hawke might— I mean, that
as we cannot pretend to be ignorant of his views
respecting "

What, my love ? What do you want to say ? "
asked my uncle.

Why," she continued, " lie might not perhaps
like Florence to — he might not thank us for introducing
" She could not go on, perhaps not liking

to be too plain, and yet not knowing how to convey
her meaning otherwise than plainly. But we all
guessed what she meant, and my uncle said —

Let old Mr. Hawke hang himself. What is it tous
? If he objects to his daughter meeting young
men, let him lock her up. I really cannot confine
Jack to his bedroom because, being at large, he is
likely to annoy Mr. Hawke by being polite to his
daughter when he meets her, and by offering to
accompany her and his cousin — his cousin, my
dear — to hear a performance of sacred music'*

"I shouldn't be too sensitive about Mr. Hawke's
feelings, mamma, if I were you," said Sophie.
Why shouldn't Cousin Jack know Florence, and
walk with her and Amelia ? I am sure he is worth
a thousand Mr. Morecombes."

Say twenty thousand, Sophie," I exclaimed,
feeling that I could hug the dear girl for her goodness
and loyalty.

I am a father myself," said my uncle, lying
back in his chair and taking a complacent look
round the table, " and I should be very sorry todo
anything calculated to bother a man in his
wishes concerning his children. But I am not
going to trouble myself on matters I can't help.
I should be sorry to call upon Mr. Hawke and.

tell lira that in my opinion he is a prig, for subordinating
his daughter's happiness in the future
to a twopenny anxiety to drag some poor creatine
of a man into the family, whose one recommendation
is that when his father dies he will be a baronet.
I would not tell him that, I say. But d'ye suppose
I'm not going to have my brother's son to stop
with me, that I am going to shut my door against
my own sex, because Miss Florence visits here,
and old Hawke would be angry if she should go
and give her heart to one of my guests instead of
reserving it — or the shell of it, for it'll be but a
hollow thing she presents if she's forced to hand
it over to the wrong man — instead of reserving
it, I say, for the coxcomb her father wants her to
have ? "

Well, I am sure I never thought my remarks
would have led to all this," said my aunt ruefully.
Nobody could have a greater contempt for Mr.
Hawke's notions of marriage than I. All that I
meant to say was that we, as acquaintances and
neighbours of his — I mean, that as Florence very

often comes to see us " Here she broke down

again.

I felt it time to speak.

Why this anxiety, aunt ? Am I going to pounce
upon the young lady and carry her off ? Is it the
dove that usually bolts with the hawk ? I admit
that she is a lovely girl. There would be nothing

very astonishing in any guest or male friend of
yours falling in love with her ; but if he flattered
himself on winning her, I should either consider
him demented or insufferably conceited. But as
you object to my "

No, no ! " she interrupted, "I don't object —
indeed not, Mr. Jack. I only — what I mean is —
indeed, if you don't accompany her and Amelia
you'll make me feel quite uncomfortable."

This ended it, my uncle rounding it off with a
burst of laughter,

I can be as fastidious in my views as my betters,
and I yield to no man in respecting the right sort
of parental opinions on the duties and behaviour
of young ladies ; and when therefore I look back, I
am unable to find the least possible impropriety in
my volunteering to escort two girls to service at a
Cathedral to hear a particular anthem sung. Yet
suppose I had not been strictly within, and well
within, the bounds of decorum, I should still have
begged my cousin to take me to the service and
risked the chance of being thought improper. My
uncle was right ; it was not the sacred music, it was
not the Cathedral that drew me. I wanted to be in
Miss Florence's company again ; I wanted to enjoy
the delight of being near her, of being able to see
her beautiful face and hear her sweet voice.

So, shortly after breakfast, Amelia and I left the
house for Clifton Lodge (let Mr. Hawke's residence

have that name), I handsomely equipped with a
gay flower that loyal and tender-hearted Sophie
had pinned upon my coat whilst I waited in the
hall for Amelia, and my cousin in right colours
which she topped with a green parasol that gave
her warm fat face a kind of copper-like splendour.
Our road took us from the valley of the Avon, and
when you are out of sight of that fairy-like ravine,
the noble heights of rocks, the shining river that
winds at bottom, and the wonders of vegetation
whose rich summer hues make the whole place like
a piece of tropical scenery, Clifton does not offer
many points for a man to posture over in description.
I own 1 was not rendered emotional by the
sight of dust and villas. My thoughts were considerably
ahead of me — along with Miss Florence
Hawke : and I believe, had the Alps been shifted
by an earthquake and brought alongside, T should
not have taken much notice of them.

We arrived at the house, and a very handsome
building it was : square, detached, with a sort of
tower upon it, and stone figures of angels or graces
or muses at the corners. It was as big again as
my uncle's ; but whether I was prejudiced by what
I had heard of old Hawke, or whether the house
was really suggestive, as I found it, it seemed
to me, for all its conservatories, its rich window
drapery, its steps, pillars, and the rest of it, a
cold, formal, precise-looking home. It had a look

of opulent genteelness, and if I had been asked to
design a house for a rich man who was without
blood, and anxious to procure some, Clifton
Lodge is the sort of residence I should have given
him.

There was a short carriage drive to the door : we
marched along with powdered boots, and pulled
the bell. A fellow in grand livery opened the door
and conducted us to the drawing-room, quite too
sumptuously furnished for my taste, much as I
value the fine and the beautiful : full of gilt and
marble, with a hand-painted ceiling — in short,
pretty nearly as overpowering as one of Lord
Bute's rooms in Cardiff Castle, which I had the
honour to inspect when I visited that part.

"Mighty splendid!" said I to Amelia, looking
about me and missing something — I don't know
what — which had it been there would have prevented
me from finding it so hard and cold.
And this is Miss Hawke's home ? "

"Is it not very magnificent?" whispered my
cousin. " Mr. Hawke must have brought a lot
of Australian gold with him to Clifton, for everything
seems gold here. Aren't you surprised now
to think how unaffected and childlike Florence is ?
One would suppose that a girl living in such
splendour would think herself too good for anybody
but lords and ladies."

"Well," said I, "if I lived here I don't know

that I should be able to walk. The earth would be
too low for my boots. Surely her father ought to
have a soul above the son of a baronet ! " said I,
glaring at a lady in a cloud blowing a trumpet
amid a trumpet of flowers upon the ceiling.

The son will be the eighth baronet when he
gets it," said she. "And I believe the More-comes
are connected in various ways with about
twenty titled families'

A plague upon him and his connections, thought
I ; and as this benediction upon him rolled up out
of my soul Miss Hawke came in, dressed for the
walk. She looked surprised to see me, and slightly
blushed. I presume, when the footman gave our
name she supposed I was my uncle. But the look
was all the expression her surprise found, and it
was replaced by a smile, so uncommonly like one
of pleasure, that as it passed over her face my
heart struck a loud whop in my bosom.

She gave me her little gloved hand to shake,
said she was very glad to see me, and asked if I
was going to the Cathedral with them.

Yes, if I may," said I. " "When Amelia spoke
of the [anthem, I begged leave to hear it too. I
hope I am not intrusive. Nobody asked me. I
am here by my own invitation."

"Why shouldn't you come?" said she, smiling,
but looking shyly. " The choir is a good one. If
you like sacred music, you will enjoy the singing."

As we left the house I asked if the Cathedral
was far.

Almost far enough for a drive if you are a bad
walker," she answered.

We shall drive back' said Amelia. " The way
is nearly all down-hill. Not that I very much care
to use a carriage when I go to church, even on
week-days. I dislike seeing people roll up to a
church door as if they expected the vicar, and his
curates, and the pew-opener, and the sexton to
come out and stand in a row and bow to them. It
is excusable, perhaps, on a week-day, or when
people are old or have the gout."

"Yes, at church we are all equals," said I,
and ought to arrive on foot, the nobleman
and the chimney-sweep, the footman and the
baronet."

I brought in the word baronet for the sake of
putting a little malicious emphasis upon it ; but
Miss Florence took no notice. What an adorable
profile was hers to turn to as I walked by her side !
There was not an atom of stiffness in her talk.
Had we been auld acquaintance she could not have
addressed me more freely and pleasantly. She
laughed at my little jokes (little they were), asked
me about the sea, wondered how I could have had
the heart to give up the life and liberty of the
ocean, and spoke of the sailor's calling as the manliest
in the world.

"What ! " cried Amelia, " more manly than the
soldier's?"

"Certainly," she answered; "they cannot be
mentioned in the same breath. Don't you agree
with me, Mr. Seymour ? "

Agree with you, Miss Hawke ! indeed I do,
from the bottom of my heart I " I answered, and I
barely saved myself from adding that had she
argued in favour of the soldier's life I should have
agreed with her with all my soul, just the same.

It was a very short walk to me. When Amelia
said, " The Cathedral, Jack, is in College Green
there, just round the corner," I exclaimed, " I
thought you said, Miss Hawke, that it was almost
far enough for a drive ? Were it five times further
it would not be too far for me."

Very hot it was, being a cloudless morning, and
many a fathom we measured without meeting the
relief of an inch of shade ; but though corpulence
is not popularly supposed to revel in the dog-days,
my fat and amiable cousin declared she enjoyed the
heat, and walked as if perspiration had been prescribed
; whilst the only effect produced on Miss
Florence by the exercise and the temperature was a
slight deepening of the delicate deathlike tint on
her cheeks. As I swung along at her side, listening
to her pretty voice and looking at her charming
face, it seemed difficult to realize that yesterday at
that hour, ay, and for some hours later, she had

no existence so far as I was concerned. Indeed, I
seemed to have known her an age — a notion produced
probably by my thoughts having been full of
her from the moment I clapped eyes on her.

I should like to be able to write in praise of
Bristol Cathedral. The mere circumstance of
Florence Hawke living in the neighbourhood ought
to have made living poetry and beauty not only of
the old pile, but of every brick and chimney-pot in
the city. But there is a nakedness and a most
unlovely grimness about the Cathedral that renders
admiration very difficult. Outside, the structure
has the look of a fortress, and inside it is as naked
as a stable. The pews or benches are crowded
together at one end, where there is a trifling show
of ecclesiastical furniture ; and to reach those seats
you have to navigate a small Atlantic Ocean of
stone floor, with pillars on either side; and the
sterility of the cold and stony scene is emphasized,
rather than relieved, by here and there — as widely
scattered as currants in a sailor's dumpling — a
memorial of brass or marble. In most cathedrals
there is something to look at. What is shown may
often be a sham. Still, a small stock of faith will
enable you to gaze with interest, as for instance at
the Black Prince's armour at Canterbury, which,
for all one knows, may have been manufactured at
Birmingham, whence a great number of ancient
relics are, I believe, annually exported. But Bristol

Cathedral offers you nothing. Historic memories
no doubt it has ; but there is nothing to touch, to
hang over, to muse upon in the form of a tomb, an
old banner, a stain on the flags where some holy
man gave up the ghost.

And yet one church Bristol has that atones for
the unfurnished Cathedral. I mean St. Mary
Eedcliffe. It is an architectural dream, most
beautiful and tender. Why are not all churches
equally lovely? Were they so, I am sure we
should all be more religious. Ladies, St. Mary
Eedcliffe is a church to get married in. Why,
even a wedding for money — ay, even the nuptials
of a foolish old rich woman with a sneaking rapacious
young man — would take an idyllic character
in St. Mary Eedcliffe. But I say, Historians,
where got you that effigy of poor little Chatterton ?
Could anything be more foolish ? I'm a Dutchman
if it isn't like a memorial to a tomtit. Think of a
structure resembling a shrine surmounted by a
caricature in little of a Lord Mayor of the last
century ! Was Chatterton a genius ? 'Pon my
word, I never could understand his ancient lingo ;
but if he had no more talent than I have, who
could not make a rhyme though ten pounds of pure
Virginia were offered me for a couplet, may I be
hanged if I would have consented to the erection of
such a scarecrow had I hailed from old Sebastian
Cabot's port.

Well, Miss Hawke and my cousin and I entered
the Cathedral and joined the worshippers (few
enough., but business is business, and this wasn't
Sunday) and heard the anthem. A fine piece of
rumbling music it was, and well sung. The
memory of it would inspire me to attempt some
elegant writing had I heard it in any other interior,
say Durham, or Winchester (wherein I have knelt
as a bairn), or Gloucester, but the nakedness of
the building ran amuck with emotion. The dim,
rich, holy light, the ghostly tatters of ancient
banners hovering like petrified bats in the gloom of
a dark roof that has reverberated the orisons of
generations, the stone warriors on their backs with
their mailed hands crossed upon their pale bosoms
and their noses gone to join their souls, the satyr-like
effigies which glower like the nightmares of
mad Chinamen from darksome corners — such and
a score of other sacerdotal wonders which no man
who has heaved at a capstan and sat astride a yard-arm
can be expected to remember, were wanting as
adjuncts to that rolling and growling and swelling
anthem in Bristol Cathedral.

And yet the grand melodies, the sweet and silver
tenor notes, the tremulous thunder of the solemn
organ echo in my soul to this hour, as a sacred
setting of that poem of womanhood who sat on my
right hand in a posture of devotion listening to the
heavenly strains. Ay, depend upon it that any

girl who wants to enrich and make large and
splendid a young man's idea of her cannot do
better than carry him off to hear an anthem sung
in a cathedral. The ball-room bequeaths the
memory of white shoulders, sparkling eyes, waltzing
measures, and so forth; the dinner-table
pretty much the same thing, sometimes including
the waltzing measures ; the parlour experience is
homely, and sentiment gets mixed up with darning,
hemming, and such matters. But to sit by the
side of a lovely girl in a cathedral and hear an
anthem sung is to enjoy a singular elevation of
emotion. She becomes a part of the sacred entertainment.
She humanizes the music, and the
music spiritualizes her. This may be rather
German as a piece of subtlety, but none the less is
it true. I can tell you this : I understood that
anthem all the better for looking at Florence
Hawke ; yes, and I found her sweetness the sweeter
and her womanly beauty the womanlike for watching
her and thinking of her, to the tune that rolled
out of the organ's melodious heart with a deep-throated
reverberation that sometimes set the seat
we were on quivering.

Service being over we came away, and outside
found Alphonso Hawke's carriage — a regal turn-out,
quite in keeping with the gilt and velvet and marble
of Clifton Lodge. There was a device on the panels
that looked uncommonly like a lord's, and might

VOL. I. I

have passed for something of the kind to a person
not nicely acquainted with odds and ends of that
sort.

"Is it too hot for a drive, dear, before we go
home?" asked Miss Hawke, addressing Amelia, of
course, for I was not dear yet.

"No; if it is not too hot to walk it is not too hot
to drive," answered Amelia. " Would you like a
drive, Jack ? "

Very much," said I. So we got into the
carriage, Miss Hawke gave some directions to the
footman, and off we went, honoured by the notice
of everybody we encountered. Indeed, I never
before observed people stare so hard at a carriage
as the Historians we met did at ours. The reason
lay in the men's livery, I think. It was as gaudy
as a lord mayor's, a blaze of crimson and gold, and
they had white hair and shining stockings. "We
talked of the anthem, and Miss Hawke asked me
what I thought of the Cathedral. I gave her my
opinion, and she agreed with me.

It is the only disappointment I have," said she.
"We Australians are always dreaming of the
antiquities of England; and when papa told me
we were going to live near a cathedral, I pictured
a place like Westminster Abbey, full of wonderful
tombs, glorious windows, beautiful monuments, and
sanctified spots railed off and hidden in twilight.
However, it is better than no cathedral at all."

This was about the most sensible thing that was
said during the drive ; all the rest of the conversation
was made up of the idle chatter which three
persons — who are no company — will bestow on one
another. The young ladies spoke of persons who
were strangers to me : of Mrs. Jones' last dance ;
of Mrs. Robinson's projected garden-party ; of Miss
Chirrup learning singing with the idea of going on
the stage. I had as much to say, too, as either of
them, tried to be funny and made them laugh, anyhow.
I took no notice of the course the coachman
was steering ; whether he was heading north or
south I could not say. It was enough for me that
I was sitting opposite Florence Hawke, that my
knee touched the sacred hem — let me call it hem —
of her exquisitely-fitting dress, that I was breathing
the atmosphere that her lovely presence made
fragrant. I say that was enough for me. "What
did it matter how old red-and-gold on the bos
pulled the reins ? All that I desired was that he
should not be in a hurry to carry us home. The
drive was largely meant for me, I knew, and so
now and again I would admire the scenery and ask
whose house that was, and pretend to be interested
in the landscape. But I have no recollection
of the view. Nearly all that I can remember is
Florence, her shining winning eyes, the light upon
her hair, the delicate tint upon her face cast by the
crimson parasol in her hand, her unaffected

laughter, and, best of all, shipmate, the real
pleasure she seemed to find in my company, as if
there was something in my talk that brightened up
her spirits.

And why not ? She loved Sydney, and I knew
the place well. She liked sailors, and I had been
one and was still one at heart. She had made
long voyages, and could understand me only as a
girl might who had rounded the Horn twice, and
knew what a four months' passage is. Might she
not, then, have found a kind of salt-water flavour
about me that would come as a novelty to her now
and awaken pleasant thoughts ?

By-and-by we came to a road that had two
branches, one leading to Clifton Lodge and the
other to my uncle's house ; and here Amelia asked
Miss Hawke to accompany us home to lunch.

"I hoped you and Mr. Seymour would have
lunched with me" said Miss Florence.

"As you please, dear," said Amelia, with the
good-natured indifference to things which I have
often taken notice of in fat people.

Home," warbled the sweet girl to the resplendent
creature on the box ; and presently we arrived
at Clifton Lodge.

The old Arabian romancers were fond of bringing
young men of various social standing and
princesses together, and making the princesses
overwhelm the young men with favours and sweetmeats,

until the young men, bewildered by so
much kindness and so much beauty, came at last
to wonder whether they stood on their heels or
their heads. As I followed the girls into Clifton
Lodge I must say my feelings very much resembled
those of the Arabian young men. I had met a
young princess, and by a combination of events
over which I had had no control, though I could
not have marshalled them to greater advantage to
myself had I had the ordering of them, I was
privileged to be in her company, and enjoy her
conversation and society so continuously as to
make the chances by which that spell of bliss came
about quite singular to remember.

Take the circumstances in their order : first, her
papa was away ; then there was the meeting her on
the previous night, and her stopping to dinner;
then there was the arrangement with Amelia to
hear the anthem, my stepping in and asking leave
to go too, the walk to the Cathedral, the sitting-through
the service, the drive, and now the invitation
to lunch. It was all perfectly correct. I
question if the most acidulated old lady living,
bless her ! could find an excuse for a scowl in an r
point of this narrative of my meeting and acquaintance
with Florence Hawke, so far. But nevertheless,
this girl and I were so much together at the
first start that I say there was something singular
in it.

She took ray cousin upstairs, and I was left;
alone in the drawing-room, where, after casting my
eyes round the spacious apartment and surveying
the costly ornaments, the resplendent chairs, and
the various other objects with much wonder and
without the least pleasure, I opened an album
bound in silver and ivory, with Alphonso Hawke's
crest (his crest !) — a kind of shield with something
that looked like a goose perched on top of it, its
wings extended and its bill cocked up as though it
were asking forgiveness for its absurd posture — and
looked at the photographs. Here I found correct
portraits of her gracious Majesty, likewise the late
Prince Consort and the Heir Apparent in Highland
costume; also several persons of quality; and
among these august and noble people there were
scattered likenesses of the Hawke family and the
most genteel of their friends. But the book was
very thinly furnished. It was a show-volume
meant for visitors. The likenesses of Hawke's
relations and early acquaintances and antipodean
friends were, I suppose, kept in a separate book
intended for the use of the family and the domestics
only.

But in looking over this album I came across a.
lovely profile likeness of Miss Florence. It was a
Paris photograph ; the shadowing and light very-fine,
the pose perfect in grace and refinement.
She was seated bending over a book, her hand to

her forehead, and tresses of her hair delicately
fringing her finger-tips. As I sat entranced the
ladies entered. I was so full of the subject that I
immediately exclaimed, " What an exquisite portrait
this is, Miss Hawke ! "

They both came up to look. "When Miss Florence
saw that it was her likeness she slightly smiled, her
colour deepened.

It is considered good," said she.

"It is perfect," said I rapturously. " Have you
one, Amelia ? "

One of my own ? " asked Amelia.

One of these ? " said I, and I pointed to the
lovely portrait.

"No, Jack," answered Amelia.

I only had a dozen," said Miss Florence, " and
this, I believe, is the last of them. If you would like
to have it, Amelia, you are very welcome to it, dear."

May I extract it at once ? " said I ; and without
waiting for permission I withdrew it tremblingly
but with extraordinary care, and said, " I will put
it in my pocket and keep it for you, Amelia," and
so saying I pocketed it.

All this was more significant than talking.
Amelia giggled, and did not know how to look nor
what to say. Miss Florence, on the other hand,
threw a veil of charming transparent tact over the
little interlude, by coming close to the table and
saying, whilst she pointed to the portraits, " That

is my father, Mr. Seymour ; and that is my poor
mother," and as I stooped to peer at Mr. Alphonso
Hawke's features a footman announced luncheon.

Cold chicken and tongue, cutlets and claret and
champagne and salad — of such was the modest
repast composed, and I could not but think that
the splendidly-dressed flunkey who waited upon us
was ashamed of the poverty of the meal. The
table in its abridged form wanted at least five-and-twenty
people to fill it, and I should think that
seventy or eighty guests could very comfortably
have dined in the great room that formed the
ground floor of the largest wing of the house. The
walls were crowded with pictures, whether good or
bad I do not know, and the furniture was of very
magnificently carved oak, the back of the sideboard
being pretty nearly as tail as the room, and enriched
with all sorts of cuttings.

Thought I, however old Hawke has earned his
money, plenty of it he must have ; and when I
looked at the lovable, beautiful creature who sat at
the head of the table, and whose figure was thrown
into sweet relief by the handsome livery of the
fellow who hung in the wake of her chair, and
reflected upon the fortune she was pretty sure to
step into — for so far as I had learnt there was but
another child — and considered the crowds of handsome
young men and high-born young men — men,
who, if they had not the capacity of going forward

were capable of going back to any extent, who
would be only too happy to mingle their blood with
old Hawke's for the privilege of possessing his
lovely daughter and his Australian sovereigns — I
say that when I looked at her and thought thus,
my heart sank, a gloom fell upon my spirits, and I
felt disposed to curse the chance that had brought
me acquainted with my uncle, and led to my visit
to Clifton.

I>3'-and-by the footman went out of the room. I
was fumbling over a peach when Amelia said — quite
essentially, for the conversation led up to the
remark — "Florence dear, are you glad or sorry
that Mr. Morecombe is coming ? "

"Now, you know, Amelia, that I don't care a
snap of the finger either one way or the other,"
answered Miss Hawke, laughing.

Is Mr. Morecombe a connection of yours, Miss
Hawke ? " said I, looking and talking innocently.

Tell my cousin he would like to be, Florence,"
exclaimed Amelia, chuckling, and squeezing grapes
into her mouth and looking at me with a kind of
leer, as if she wished me to know she approved of
my pretended ignorance.

No, he is no connection," answered Miss Hawke
very quietly. " He is a son of Sir Reginald More-combe,
a person my father has a high regard for.
He is coming here on a visit. Mr. Seymour, will
you please give me a peach ? "

What was the meaning of the smile that flitted
over her face ? Could she read in me that I was
half mad to ask her if there was the faintest chance
in the world of her complying with her papa's
desire ? Well, I must have been an ass to suppose
that she could interpret my thoughts like that. Yet
my mind was so full at that moment that I could
not but suspect she had caught a glimpse of a
portion of what was whirling and simmering in it.

What is young Mr. Morecombe ? " said I. " An
army man ? "

"He is nothing," said Miss Hawke.

"Very much nothing at all," observed Amelia.

I waited breathless, thinking that Miss Hawke
would speak in his favour.

"I am afraid he is rather a fool," said she;
whereupon I laughed at the top of my voice.

"Why were fools invented?" I exclaimed, as lively
as a sparrow on a sudden. " To mitigate any
spirit of discontent that might sometimes visit
monkeys ? Or as standards for measuring the
intellect of ladies ? "

Why do you say that ? " cried Amelia. " Are
women only fit for fools ? "

No, no ! " said I. " The women who are above
fools can't be measured by them. I am speaking
of women who allow fools to make love to them, and
who end in marrying fools."

A girl may marry a fool and not know he is a

fool until she finds him her husband," said Miss
Hawke.

I wouldn't have contradicted her to save my life ;
but for all that I didn't agree with her. A man, it
is true, may prove a bigger fool after marriage to
his wife than he seemed before, because his wife
has had the chance of looking deeper into him ; but
if he was ever a fool at all, he was a fool before his
marriage, and the woman knew it.

I should not object very much to stupid men,"
said Amelia, " if they were foolishly amiable and
not generally conceited. I don't profess to know
much about Mr. Morecombe, but so far as I have
gone, what annoys me most in him is this : when
he puts his glass into his eye and looks around,
there can be no question that he thinks himself a
person of consequence, and that he embellishes life.
He ! Oh, my dear ! whenever I meet with what
papa calls a swell, I always wonder how many feet
high it would be necessary to mount into the air
to look down and not be able to see the noble
creatine."

How terribly democratic they are in America,
Mr. Seymour ! " exclaimed Miss Hawke, laughing.
In Australia, you know, we reverence pedigree."

"Yes, the Australians are a loyal people; they
believe in lords, and sing ' God save the Queen,' "
said I. "And don't you see, Amelia, that your
notion of going into the air and losing sight of the

swell hits the man of genius too ? Would little
Thomas Moore have been visible three miles
down ? "

"Not his body, but the best part of him would,"
said Miss Hawke, " for Amelia could take the
Irish Melodies ' into the air with her."

I should have praised this as a neat turn in anybody
; but coming from Miss Florence it sounded
to me incomparably fine. I was delighted, and
said it was worthy of Hook. (Why Hook ? I must
have meant Hood.)

Pray, Miss Hawke," said I, " where is Flora? "

Flora ? Oh, poor dear old Flora, I am sorry
to say, is not well. The housekeeper is nursing
her downstairs. But you are not sorry, are you ?
You think her vicious. Even had she been well I
should not have introduced her. And yet she
cannot bite. She has no teeth."

You should order a false set for her," says
Amelia, with a sober face.

I love poor old Flora," continued Miss Hawke,
in her tender voice. [Observe ! It was delightful
to hear her say " I love." Her lips were made to
form the words, her face to look the thought expressed
! ] " She was my mother's pet, and has
been mine ever since mamma died. It will grieve
me when poor Flora goes ; and I simply hate the
coachman for telling me this morning that he's
afraid she will not last much longer."

"Don't let the coachman distress you," said I
softly. " I have a poor opinion of coachmen as a
body. They know very little. Let them stick to
horses, and leave dogs alone."

Jack, it is time to go," said Amelia, looking at
the clock. " Why, Florence, your papa and Mr.
Morecombe will be arriving at six o'clock and
finding us still at lunch." And up she jumped.

Miss Hawke begged her not to be in a hurry : it
was only half-past two. For my part I should
have been willing to go on stopping until I had
been turned out; but I could not stay without
Amelia, and Amelia declared she must go. So my
cousin went to put on her hat, and when that job
which kept me waiting twenty minutes — was
performed, we bade Miss Hawke farewell, and
passed out of the house with all the state that
could be conferred upon us by a footman holding
open the door, a butler bowing, and another fellow
in livery in the distance looking on.

I have thoroughly enjoyed my morning," said
I, as we walked in the direction of my uncle's
house.

I am very glad to hear it," replied Amelia.
We want you to enjoy yourself whilst you are
with us. And I hope you will not be in a hurry to
go."

"You are all delightfully kind and good. This
sort of life, I fear, will unfit me for lodgings in

London. I am afraid it will make me want to get
married, Amelia."

"Well," says she, laughing, "you ought not to
find much trouble when you do make up your
mind. You are very impressionable — you will not
be hard to please, will you ? "

Why do you say that ? Here am I twenty-five
years old, and I have never been in love yet."

That may be," said she; "but you are in love
now, aren't you? "

I coloured, hesitated, and then exclaimed, "Yes,
I think I am — I am pretty sure I am. How lovely
she is ! how gentle ! how kind ! Who could help
loving her ? "

That is what I mean by your being impressionable,"
said Amelia, laughing pleasantly. "You
arrived here last evening ; it is now about three
o'clock, and in that time you have fallen in love."

Well, don't make a joke of it, Amelia. If it
isn't permissible to fall in love with a girl like
Florence Hawke almost as fast as one can look at
her, why should nature allow the emotion to exist ?
Eh, I think that's a puzzler, isn't it? " and I heard
myself laughing harshly.

I am not making a joke of it, Jack," answered
Amelia. " I believe if I were a man I should fall
in love with Florence myself. I don't mean to
say that she is so wondrously beautiful as the gentlemen
profess to find her ; but she has a sweet

character, and if I were a man that is what I
should like best in a wife."

"Yes, and that is exactly what I like best in
Florence " (what a horrible hypocrite I was ! ).
And then a cloud gathering upon my brow, "I
wish," I mumbled moodily, " I had never seen her.
I shall have her on the brain, and no good can
come of it. Her father has got hold of the tiller
and will steer her as he wants, and the very sweetness
of character you speak of is just an assurance
that she will answer her helm. Besides, what
chance should I stand, in any case ? " And with
my stick I let fly at the twigs of the hedge past
which we were walking.

I think she is disposed to like you, do you
know, Jack ? " said Amelia.

What put that into your head ? "

We were talking of you in the bedroom, and
she said she enjoyed your frank manners. It was
like going a voyage to sit with you, she said."

Ah ! "

She also observed that the difference between a
young man like Mr. Morecombe and a young manlike
you was the difference between the hot atmosphere
of an evening party and the bright breeze of
the sea-shore. No," she continued, " I'm wrong.
It was I who said that. But she agreed with me
so thoroughly that it was just the same as if she
had said it."

What else did she say ? "

Why," she answered, trying to remember, " I
think she then changed the subject by speaking of
her dog."

"May I smoke a cigar?" I asked. She gave
me permission. "Can you explain," I asked, "how
it is that Mr. Alphonso Hawke, if he is so very
anxious to marry his daughter, both daughters
I presume, to blood, should be living here instead
of in London, where his means should enable
him to get the class of man he wants about
him ? "

You say both daughters ; but Emily Hawke is
never likely to marry," answered Amelia. " The
poor thing is little better than an invalid. She
suffers from a weak or curved spine, and her chest
is affected. Periodically she visits some fashionable
doctor in London, and that is why, I believe, she
is away with her father now. I am sure I cannot
tell why Mr. Hawke does not live in London.
Perhaps he is not so very sure of being able to get
the society he likes. This place agrees with him
and Emily, he told papa. Besides, if Mr. More-combe
comes up to his idea of an eligible young
man, then, as he has got him, and as one is
enough — for we are not Mormons at Clifton,
Jack — he may think it would only be a waste of
money to live in London for the sake of getting
others."

What do you mean by got him, Amelia ? " I
rattled out. " You don't mean to say that his
marriage with Miss Florence is settled ? "

I believe it is in Mr. Hawke's mind, and no
doubt in young Morecoinbe's. But not in Florence's
; she is not likely to accept a man she can
ridicule."

"That's no guarantee!" I muttered. "But
gracious mercy ! if it is only a question of blood
with Mr. Hawke, cannot he get higher than young
Morecombe ? "

Yes, but he is evidently satisfied with the blood
of the Morecombes."

I wish I could spill it ! I wish some one would
shed it ! " I exclaimed. " If the father attacks his
daughter on one side and the representative of the
blood of the Morecombes attacks her on the other,
she must yield : she is doomed ; her amiability
will be her fatality. She will be crushed under the
nuns of her own good nature."

"Is it not a little early for you to begin to tear
your hair, Jack ? " said Amelia, laughing heartily.
You really cannot have made up your mind upon
the state of your heart yet. Wait a little."

"Whatever may be the state of my heart,
Amelia," said I, " I have bared it to you, and
you will respect the solemn secret you have beheld
in it."

"Oh, certainly!"

VOL. I. °

You will not breathe a word of this conversation
to your papa or mamma ? "

Not a syllable. There is nothing to breathe."
And as she said this, with difficulty preserving her
gravity, we entered the grounds of my uncle's
house.

CHAPTEK V.

MR. Alphonse HAWKE.

It is a mistake to ask a woman not to breathe a
syllable. She cannot be trusted, least of all with
another person's love secret. She can keep her
own, but not yours or mine. And indeed very often
she cannot keep her own. I remember a young
gentleman telling me that, having fallen in love
with a girl, he proposed to her in a very neat letter
that had cost him nearly a quire of expensive
paper. She answered by return, declining his
offer, hoping he would forgive her, and that they
would continue friends. She had destroyed his
letter, she said; and as she did not mean to breathe
a syllable of what had passed between them, she
hoped he would be silent too. Meanwhile he was
to be sure to come to their dance next so and so.
Well, his heart having been declined, it suited him
very well to be silent ; and nothing but his faith
in her promise of secrecy, coupled with his anxiety
to gaze on her once more, could have furnished

him with sufficient fortitude to present himself at
the dance given by the young lady's mamma.
The behaviour of the numerous family satisfied
him that nobody knew he had proposed to the girl,
and he danced in a collected and easy posture of
mind. But what was the truth? He ultimately
won the girl's love, and when they were married
she said, " Of course, Montague, I showed your
letter to papa and mamma, and my brothers and
sisters, and poor Aunt Jane — you remember dear
Aunt Jane ? — for was it to be supposed, Montague,
that I could hide such a serious thing as an offer
of marriage from my family ? "

Amelia served me in that way. She went and
told Sophie that I had confessed, "Yes, my dear,
confessed — only think ! " to being deeply in love
with Florence Hawke. Sophie gave the news to
her mother, who handed it on to my uncle. No
doubt they all pledged one another to secrecy.
But my uncle could not hold his tongue ; and on
the evening of the day on which I had lunched
with Miss Hawke, the ladies having retired to rest,
and he and I being alone, sitting in the open
window and smoking cigars, he spoke as follows : —

So, my boy" (and this was the delicate way
he approached the subject), " they tell me you are
head over ears in love with Florence Hawke'*

Who are they ? " I observed.

"All your relations," he answered. "But why

d'ye want to keep it a secret ? And yet I don't
know. You're right to be 'sly if you're sincere ;
for if Hawke twigs your sentiment, stand by !
But I say, Jack, how on earth can you be in love
with a girl you have only met once or twice, and
have only heard of during the last twenty-four
hours ? "

I am sure I can't tell you," said I.

Why, it took me eight months to make up my
mind to offer for your aunt — a handsomer woman
then than Florence is now, make no mistake about
that, sir. A proper female ; a lady in heart and
a woman in beauty, young man."

That she is still," said I.

Yes, every inch of her. Eight months, I say,
it took me to resolve ; and here are you ripe in less
than twenty-four hours for the parson to operate
on. But this is the age of locomotives — the sixty -
mile-anchor epoch ; and a correct portrait of the
period should represent it as pelting before a
hurricane, holding its gray hair on with both
hands."

I think you forge ahead a trifle too fast," said
I. "I greatly admire Miss Hawke, and so do you."
He nodded. " But when you speak of my being
desperately in love you're giving a character to
my admiration that I really can't say it yet
possesses."

"Well, my lad," said he, "I don't know what's

in your mind, nor does it matter. But I'll tell
you this : you'll be a lucky fellow if you win her.
I should say she was good for ten thousand pounds,
if a penny, with more to come. Moreover, shea
lady, which is a fine thing for one's friends, and
a beauty, which is a fine thing for oneself. Any
help I can give you, Jack, you may command.
Your aunt may hang a bit in the wind, as she's
got to work the sense of duty to her neighbour off
her mind; but your cousins are at your service,
and with a pair of clever girls to do your love-errands
you should be able to out-weather old Nick
himself, where he Florence's papa."

Though I could talk as offhandedly as he, I was
not without a stock of native modesty ; and we
were now upon a subject which sentiment had to
a certain extent consecrated, and which I felt ought
to be approached hat in hand, so that I did not
much care to humour my uncle's irreverent, commercial,
and half-jeering allusions to it. I therefore
without much trouble drew him away from the
subject, and was presently splitting my sides over
some capital Yankee stories he related ; though
when I went to my bedroom I hung for a long
half-hour over Miss Florence's photograph, and
when in bed lay so great a while full of thought,
that the sparrows were twittering on the trees when
I fell asleep. Was I to get no rest at Clifton ?

Next mornings I took mv cousins for a drive in

the phaeton, and when we were fairly under way I
said to Amelia : —

Do you remember promising not to breathe
a syllable ? "

"Of what?" asked she.

Of our talk yesterday when we returned from
Clifton Lodge."

"Yes; and I kept my word. Sophie asked
questions, particularly if you were not in love with
Florence, and I said yes, you were."

And why shouldn't we know ? " exclaimed
good-natured Sophie. " We are naturally interested
in you and in Florence too."

I had to thank her for this, which of course put
an end to my reproaches.

By-the-by, Jack," said Amelia, " I forgot to
ask you for Florence's portrait, which you very
kindly put into your pocket to keep for me."

I'll go on keeping it for you," I replied. " You
may trust me ; it will be quite safe."

Both the girls laughed, and Amelia said : —

I did not tell you, Sophie, that when Jack was
admiring Florence's portrait she turned to me and
asked me if I would like it. Do you think she was
sure it would find its way through me to Jack or
through Jack to me? Upon my word, she is a
deep Little thing."

Is she a flirt ? " I asked, not much relishing
my cousin's applause of her.

"If she were should I tell you?" answered
Amelia, laughing loudly. " No, no ; there is such
a thing as esprit des corps among women : we may
sneer at one another among ourselves, but right-minded
females never expose the sex's infirmities
to the common enemy."

"Besides, Jack," says Sophie, "no girl is supposed
to know whether another is a flirt or not.
It is for men to make the discovery."

Well, to be sure all this was very twopenny talk
the chatter of three young relations driving along
a road in a phaeton ; but it pleased and amused
me. I found that these girls enjoyed conversing
on the subject of love, and that they were quite
disposed to encourage me to make a fool of myself
over Miss Hawke. There are women who like to
set people quarrelling with one another, and there
are women who like to set people making love to
one another. My cousins were of this order, and
their papa perhaps knew their peculiarity when he
spoke of them as a couple of clever girls, willing to
run on any errands I might want to put them to.

And, upon my word, if I were a girl I should
think that the next best fun to having a sweetheart
is to act as factotum to a pair of lovers ; to enjoy
the confidence of both ; to patch up damaged feelings
; to convey letters, and see the comedy, as I
may say, from the wings instead of from the front.
But it is a woman's business, and to perform her

part to her own and the satisfaction of others, she
not only requires plenty of leisure, but she must
be emotional if not hysterical, and exceedingly
amiable ; nor, perhaps, can she be held absolutely
qualified for the arduous post unless she is able to
show that she has been in love herself, and knows
what blighted feelings are.

We returned home at half-past twelve, and as I
drove up to the door I saw my uncle walking under
the trees with a tall man wearing a beard, his
upper lip shaved.

It's Mr. Hawke ! " said Amelia ; and when the
girls alighted they went up to him and shook
hands. I followed when the groom was near
enough to catch the reins I flung to him, and
my uncle introduced me. Mr. Hawke made a very
stately bow. This was evidently the first he had
heard of me ; and when he regained his ramrod
erectness he scrutinized me with as keen a pair of
eyes as were ever levelled at a youth. He was a
tolerably good-looking man, tall and well dressed.
He was certainly very different from the burly
colonial I had somehow pictured him. He carried
a very grave expression of face, and the skirts of
his coat being long and his beard hiding the
furniture of his neck, he might have been mistaken
for a clergyman. A pair of gold eye-glasses dangled
upon his ample surface of waistcoat, a large
diamond flashed upon one hand that was un-gloved,

and in the other hand was a stout cane
adorned with a heavy gold knob. I noticed that
he spoke slowly, with a degree of deliberation
that was both tiresome and disturbing, as it
suggested not only a solicitude as to his choice
of words, but misgivings as to his capacity of
delivering them when selected.

Sophie asked after his daughter Emily.

Thank you, Miss Seymour, she is as well as
we have a right to expect. Sir Timothy Thomson
thinks that no change of air is at present necessary.
The journey home fatigued her — aw — poor thing,
but a night's rest has, I am happy to say, restored
her." And then addressing me, "What do you
think of Clifton, sir ? Is this your first — aw —
your first visit ? "

"It is," I replied. "I only arrived the night
before last ; but what I have seen delights me."

And mind you, Mr. Hawke," says my uncle,
"my nephew Jack's opinion is not to be despised,
for he has visited Sydney Harbour."

Oh, you know Sydney ? — indeed ! " exclaimed
the old fellow, as if my knowing Sydney rather
disconcerted him. "Pray how do you know
Sydney?"

As a sailor, sir."

"Oh, as a sailor! Yes, just so. You will not
aw — have much acquaintance with it. My
recollection is that sailors are only allowed to

go ashore — I believe — aw — that is the expression
to go ashore at night, as they have to work
all day."

"Quite right," said I; "I see that you know
something about the nautical calling."

"Not much, not much, indeed," he replied,
never relaxing his distressing gravity, and speaking
as if on the whole any knowledge of the
nautical calling was calculated to lead to social
prejudice : " having lived in Australia I have —
aw — had necessarily to cross the ocean to reach
England, and have had opportunities of inspecting
well — aw — perhaps not of inspecting — of witnessing
"

In short," cut in my uncle unceremoniously,
"you have seen enough of Jack's life to know
something about it ? "

"Aw — yes," replied Mr. Hawke, giving a little
scowl round to let us understand that he had
been at no loss for words. "You didn't, perhaps,"
continued he, addressing me, " know Sir Wilkinson
Smith at Sydney?"

No," said I.

"Nor his charming lady? Who, by the way,
Mr. Seymour," speaking to my uncle, "turns out
to be a connection of Lord Wear, my friend Sir
Reginald Morecombe's cousin."

"We should call that a coincidence in Canada,"
said my uncle, giving me a look. " By the way,

Mr. Hawke, have you brought Mr. Morecorabe
along with you to Clifton ? "

Mr. Hawke answered yes, and that he and
Florence were out riding, a piece of news that
caused Sophie to steal a peep at me, whilst it
excited in the depths of my soul an evil wish
that the fellow would break his neck before he
got home.

We stood all five of us conversing for sometime
under the trees. It did not take me long
to discover that Mr. Alphonso Hawke was a
pompous old bore, with an early training and
history of which he was ashamed, and to the
veneering of which he was devoting his declining
years. I was struck by his way of speaking, the
cautious manner in which he groped along with
his tongue, saying aw, and ah, merely to enable
him to pause and make sure, and the fine airs
he put on (which he may have seen and admired
in Sir "Wilkinson Smith and his charming lady,
a connection of the Morecombes) when he addressed
my cousins. His want of ease was the most
harassing part of him. He was indeed one of
those men to whom you long to say, " For goodness
sake try not to be genteel, and pray cease
to act as a person of breeding. Drop an h, sir,
for the comfort of your friends, now and then.
Kindly be vulgar and natural."

At last he went away, declining my uncle's

invitation to stop to lunch with a large and
portly wave of the hand, and a smile that
exposed what I suspected then and know now to
have been a splendid set of false teeth. He gave
the ladies an immense bow as he quitted them,
and I watched with an emotion, almost of awe,
the solemnity of his tread and the full-blown
dignity of his consequential carriage as he walked
by my uncle's side to the gate.

"Well, Jack," said my uncle, returning, and
looking at me with a grin, "what d'ye think of
your future father-in-law ? "

"Hush, papa! for gracious goodness sake,"
cried Amelia in a terrified voice, casting her eyes
in the direction in which old Hawke had disappeared.


Tut, tut," said my uncle, " he's out of hearing,
silly."

He fits the character you gave him to a hair,"
said I; "he is a prig."

Ay, a prig," exclaimed my uncle: "but isn't
he a fine specimen of one ? isn't he worth knowing
as a prig ? You're not going to meet with such a
sample as that every day, my hearty. May I be
shivered if the sight of him alone isn't worth a
long journey."

"Really, papa," said Sophie demonstratively,
he is our friend, dear. He is Florence's father.
If we cannot speak well of him, let us say nothing'"

"True," said I, "he is Florence's papa; we
must speak well of him."

Sophie, my love," said my uncle with fine
gravity, " let us, as the moralist says, clear our
minds of cant. Who would care to have, who
would be bothered with acquaintances, if the knowing
them were conditional on never saying anything
ill-natured behind their backs ? Do you think
Hawke don't sneer at me f Do you suppose that
he doesn't ridicule my wide awake, the cut of my
boots, my indifference to the aristocracy as lords
and ladies — not, Jack, as men and women ? No, I
can respect honest people even when they are titled.
But though Hawke sneers at me, he asks me-to
dine with him : and though I laugh at his cheap
pretensions, I accept his invitation and return it."

"It's the way of the world, Sophie," said I.
But I own that Mr. Hawke is a bigger disappointment
than I expected. How the dickens came
his most lovely daughter to be a relative of his ? "

I say, Jack," cried my uncle rather maliciously,
did you hear him say that Florence and young
Morecombe were out riding ? Man, you must keep
your weather eye lifting. Don't let this be a stern-chase,
for the pretty little craft will have been
boarded by the fellow who's already abreast of her
before you can come up with her."

"Pray don't make my admiration of the girl too
significant," said I, not liking this banter at all.

If Morecombe boards her, it will be because she
allows him to do so. And if I don't overhaul her,
it may be because I reckon my spars more valuable
than the chase's capture."

Don't talk Greek ! " exclaimed Sophie, who had
listened eagerly. ' What with boarding and overhauling
and stern-chasing and such stuff, it is
impossible to find out your meaning."

There is no meaning to find out," said I.
And here my aunt stood up in the window and
called out that lunch was ready.

CHAPTEK VI.

A LITTLE DINNER AT CLIFTON LODGE.

Some days after this we went to dine at Clifton
Lodge. My going fell out in this way.

Miss Hawke called one morning to ask the
Seymours to dine en famille on such and such an
evening. I had taken my uncle's little mare for a
canter, and when I returned and heard that Miss
Hawke had called, I could have pulled a handful of
hair out of my head with vexation. It was a week
since I had set eyes on her. In vain had I sneaked
out when nobody was looking, and hung about the
roads which I thought she was bound to pass along,
whether riding or driving or walking. To no purpose,
I say. And then all on a sudden she calls
and I miss her !

However, I smothered my feelings, and asked ina
collected voice the reason of her visit. It was
Sophie to whom I put this question, and we were
alone.

She called to ask us to dinner."

Oh indeed ! " said I, brightening up. " What's
the date?"

Sophie named it.

Did she bring any news ? " said I. " Anything
fresh going forward at Clifton Lodge ? "

Oh, she brought no news," says Sophie.

Nothing about young Morecombe ? She'd tell
you, wouldn't she, if he had proposed ? "

She'd tell nie, I believe, if she had accepted
him," she answered, "but I don't think she will
accept him — at least, I hope she won't."

I plucked at my bit of a moustache — there was
not enough of it to de-sailors my countenance —
and said : " Mr. Hawke is very polite to invite me.
When I met him the other day I couldn't help fancying
that he eyed me as if I might be a youth that
would admire his daughter : and I suppose admiration
for her in any other man than Mr. Morecombe
would be worse than poison to the old gentleman."

"To be candid, Jack," says Sophie, with an air
of reluctance in her gentle manner, " Florence did
not include you — I mean she did not mention your
name. She asked mamma and papa and Amelia
and me."

"Oh!" said I.

But it doesn't in the least signify," continued
she. " It was a pure oversight on her part. Of
course you'll go ? "

Go ! " said I. " Go to Jericho, you mean.

VOL. I. H

What ! go where I am not asked ? Why, I'd rather
hang myself up hy the neck until I was dead, otherwise
what mercy should I expect for my soul ? "
Nonsense," said Sophie. " You will go."
Upon my word I was so angry, so disappointed,
that I was ungallant enough to wish that my affectionate
cousin had been a man, merely to ease my
mind by telling her I would see her, etc. Observing
my temper and vexation — and I believe this
did more to open her kind eyes to the state of my
heart than had I sat down and indited volumes
about it — she dropped the subject and so did I,
so far as words went : but I very well remember
carrying it into the grounds, up into a corner, into
a summer arbour, where, armed with a large pipe,
I turned it over, kicked it, ground it under heel,
and, as I actually endeavoured to make myself
believe, buried the mutilated thing along with the
imbecile sentiment that had kept me feverish and
foolish ever since the hour I had first entered my
uncle's house.

Of course I was unreasonable. What right had
I to expect to be included in the invitation to dine ?
Who was I that she should trouble herself even to
remember that such a person existed when I was
out of sight ? And yet I felt 'that it would have
done me good to have expended myself in an Irish
riot, for the sake and pleasure of knocking anybody
over the head. Was her nature perfidious ? Was

all her talk about Mr. Morecombe being a fool and
the like fudge ? It was ; I say, I feared it was,
and I ground my heel into the soil of the summer
arbour.

"Well, in this posture of mind was I sitting,
smoking and writhing, when I heard Sophie calling
"Jack! Jack!"

Halloo ! " I grumbled.

Where are you, Jack ? " she cried.

"Here," said I, and I went out of the arbour
that she might see me.

She came running along, red with heat and
radiant with pleasure, and flourished a little square
of gray paper. I saw the gilt edge of it sparkle,
and observed that it bore the creases of a cocked-hat
note.

Read that, you foolish mope ! " says she ;
and she put the letter into my hand. It was as
fragrant as jessamine ; it was adorned with a crest
in blue and gold, and the crest embodied a goose
with its bill cocked up ; the paper was ribbed and
thick, delightful to feel— a truly lovable thing to
handle. The handwriting was clear and decisive :
it might have passed for a man's. Thus ran the
missive : —

"Dearest Sophie,

"When I arrived home after calling
upon you, it flashed upon me that I had omitted to

ask you to bring your cousin, Mr. Jack Seymour,
next, Thursday evening. I am sure I cannot account
for this foolish and most unintentional omission,
unless I put it down to my habit of thinking of
your family as consisting of four only. I am sorry
to say that poor Flora is much icorsc.

Yours affectionately,

Florence Hawke.

"Pes. — Do not let your cousin know that I forgot
him."

There," said Sophie, as I looked up from the
letter, " you can pin that to her photograph and
keep it."

A dark suspicion entered my mind. Had Sophie
written to ask her to invite me ? had she requested
her to write as if the after-thought were her own ?
No : it needed but very little reflection to see that
there had not been time enough to admit of such
a stratagem. It was a genuine letter, and yet I
would not appear too well pleased either.

"How do you know that I want to keep it?"
said I, dangling the note.

Then tear it up," said Sophie, with a laugh of
bland defiance.

That wouldn't be polite," I replied. " I never
act impulsively," and so saying I put it in my
pocket.

Of course now you will join us ? " said Sophie.

"Why should I? don't you relish dignity ina
connection ? She was not polite to forget me,
and there is really a limit to forgiveness," said
I, in a mode that still simmered, though I admit
that the fires were drawn.

"Well," said Sophie, "you have Florence's
invitation : she cannot do more than ask you,
although I believe men would like women to goon
their knees to them even when they granted
favours, not to mention receiving them ; and I am
quite rare, Jack, that you will do the thing that
best pleases you," and she turned to leave me.

Her speech was made painfully sarcastic by her
emphasis on the words granted and receiving, and
sarcasm in a fat, affectionate, amiable woman falls
on a man's intelligence like a box on the ear falls
on the head. I seized her hand.

Dear Sophie — I'm an ass," I exclaimed. " I
have allowed my feelings — her omission of my
name, do you see — the sort of liking she seemed
to show for me — in fact, I ought to have stopped
in London."

My cousin melted like a snowflake on a river,
one moment white, though I cannot say that at
the next she was gone for ever.

No, Jack," said she. " You wrong yourself.
There is nothing wonderful in your liking, even in
your loving, Florence Hawke. She likes you — she

told Amelia so. "Why shouldn't her liking become
love ? You must not misjudge her. Suppose she
purposely omitted your name in her invitation 2
it might have been from fear of her papa. But
look how honest she is ! when she gets home she
remembers the omission with pain, says, ' No ! I
will defy papa in this matter,' and she sits down
and writes the letter you have in your pocket.
How can you sneer at her ? "

"Sneer ! " I shouted.

I mean, how can you talk about your dignity ?
Poor girl ! You know she stands alone. She has
to cope with her father's wishes, and the attentions
of the wretched creature her papa wants her to
marry. No, Jack ; if I were you I should feel
grateful for the spirit that prompted her to write
that letter, and I should certainly try to please herby
making her understand how deeply you admire
her courage — which you can only do by dining at
Clifton Lodge on Thursday."

Say no more, Sophie," cried I abjectly. " I
shall dine, trust me."

She gave me a kindly nod and went away,
rather hurriedly, I thought; perhaps to conceal
her mirth, but in that particular period of my life
I was a very suspicious man, as what youth is not
who believes he is in love ? When she was out of
sight I drew forth the letter, read it over five or six
times, kissed the signature, and perpetrated several

extravagances of a like kind. I had it by heart ina
very short time, and went on repeating sentence
after sentence in the hope of finding a deeper
meaning than lay on the surface. The passage
that pleased me best was the postscript : "Do not
let your cousin know that I forgot him." It
showed that her dog was not the last thought in
her mind when she wrote.

I look back sometimes at myself, ensconced in
that summer-house reading Miss Hawke's letter,
and putting it to my lips and acting like a
Frenchman in love in a stage play. That particular
recollection somehow makes all that
followed so queer, so romantic, so wild to me as
I view the incidents now, that there are times
when I can hardly persuade myself that what I
took part in was not a portion of another life, like
one of those fancies which sometimes seize one,
of having acted or done something or undergone
some experience in another sphere of being in
which one flourished before one was born. But
let me fire away, for at this rate we shall never
get out of Clifton and afloat.

Thursday evening came, and in all my time I
never shaved myself with keener solicitude nor
dressed myself with livelier anxiety. Will it be
credited that I actually kept the ladies waiting ?
Think of a young fellow who for years had been
accustomed to tumble out of his bunk and bundle

on deck a couple of minutes after the cry of
Eight bells ! d'ye hear the news below there,
sleepers ? " had harshly thundered down the
hatchway, who thought himself fortunate if he
could get a good wash-down once a week, and
who would roll into his clothes without taking
thought of his appearance — think of him, I say,
debasing his old sea-traditions by a trick of vile
coxcombry ! Yes, I positively kept my aunt and
cousins waiting, so that my uncle was obliged to
come to my door and beat upon it, and shout
Jack ! damme man, it's not a dance but a
dinner, d'ye hear ? and it's not polite to be late
when you're asked to dine."

Of course I rushed out and profusely apologized,
declaring that my watch was wrong, and so forth ;
but my uncle would not have that. " No, no''
says he ; " it isn't your watch that's out ; it's
another piece of mechanism that's gone wrong,"
and he smote himself upon his breast, and winked
at me with all his might.

"You look very nice, Mr. Jack," said my aunt ;
she always gave me the Mister.

It was the first time they had seen me in tails,
and upon my word I think I may say without
affectation that the dress-coat, shiny boots, white
tie and lavender kid gloves, in which I had
anxiously clothed myself, made me a very tolerable
figure. My uncle was in black, and wore an open

frock coat. He began to inveigh against the
waiter's costume, as lie styled the dress I had
figged myself out in. "It may please those who
like it," said he ; " but you'll never catch me ina
garment that's neither a jacket nor a coat.
"What ? Sir, the tailor who invented that dress
had an improper mind. If I am to let the world
know what sort of figure I possess, give me tights
at once. Let me dance in shorts and a jersey."

My aunt made faces at him, and tried to change
the subject by bidding me take notice of the moon
or what there was of it ; did it betoken wet ?
she wondered. (We were in the carriage, and
"rowling along," as Pat sa's; there were five of
us, and a tight fit it was for me between my two
cousins). But my uncle would take no hints. He
went on abusing tail-coats until his denunciations
were cut short by the carriage stopping at Clifton
Lodge.

We were punctual enough : half-past seven. A
most lovely evening it was, full of dew and
fragrance, with a noble sunset in the west, and
fitter for a ramble among the hedges than a
guzzling match among hot soups and meats. As
I followed my cousins into the hall my heart beat
a trifle faster than usual. It was not only that I
was to meet the girl that had taken sovereign
command of my thoughts ; I w T as going to find her
in the company of the fellow her father had chosen

for her, and whom, by importunities and the
peculiar kind of moral pressure which fond parents
know how to] exert on their beloved children whilst
something they want done remains undone, he
would ultimately, no doubt, induce or compel her
to marry.

The footman flung open the drawing-room door,
and announced us, and in we went. We found
Mr. Hawke and his two daughters alone. With
winning and delightful grace (of course, I always
praise her, you say : but she deserved it, I tell
you) Miss Florence received us, kissed Sophie and
Amelia, but I could not help fancying there was
a little timidity in the way in which she shook
hands with me. Had Sophie told her that she had
shown me her letter, and that I had stored it away
along with her picture? Upon my word, it is
impossible to tell not only what girls do, but what
they don't tell one another.

"Let me introduce you to my sister," said she,
and she led me up to Miss Emily Hawke, whose
invalidism was sufficiently denned by her wan face.
She would be about seventeen years old, and she
had old Hardie's features attenuated by ill health,
and refined by the circumstance of her not belonging
to old Hawke's sex. My aunt was at her side,
full of sympathy and questions. So I went over to
Mr. Hawke and my uncle, leaving Miss Florence
deep in conversation with my cousins, who I could

hear exclaiming " Oh ! " " Poor thing ! " " How
dreadful ! " and so forth.

Our host was in full puff, silk waistcoat, velvet
collar to his tail-coat, plenty of jewellery, highly
scented, and looking larger and more portly and
consequential than 1 had first found him. He was
telling my uncle that Sir Hugo Perch and her
ladyship, Sir Hugo's wife — " a connection of the
Battleabbeys, Mr. Seymour — charming people " — -
were to have come to dinner, but that in consequence
of something or other, they — aw — were obliged at
the last moment, etc.

So we shall be quite ' long famille,' " says he,
glancing from my uncle's coat to mine. " Indeed,
rather more so than I had anticipated, for I — aw — •
I regret to say a most painful, really a most
painful, incident happened this afternoon. You — \
aw — you remember my daughter Florence's "

Here he was interrupted by my cousins and Miss
Hawke joining us.

Oh, papa ! " cried Sophie, " what do you think?
Florence's poor, dear, darling old Flora is dead."

Dead ! " ejaculated my uncle, not quite knowing
what else to say.

Worse than dead," said Amelia. u Killed,
papa ! "

"Killed!" cried I; on which methought Mr.
Hawke looked at me as much as to say, "What
the deuce is it to you, sir ? "

"I was about to tell the story," exclaimed the
old gentleman, posing himself in such a way as
to make him seem all waistcoat. " It's a doubly
unfortunate circumstance. It deprives my daughter
• — a little precipitately, but that — aw — that is all ;
a little before its time, my love," continued he with
a bland wave of his hand to her, "of an old and
attached friend, and ourselves — aw — of the pleasure
of my friend Sir Keginald Morecombe son's
company at dinner this evening."

I pricked up my ears, stealing meanwhile earnest
glances at Miss Florence, who looked, I thought,
now that I could take a good peep at her, as if she
had been crying.

"It happened in this way," continued Mr. Hawke.
Flora had followed my daughter upstairs ; but —
aw — being exceedingly infirm — her age, Florence,
could certainly not be less than sixteen years, and
—aw — short of breath, she failed, I presume, to
reach the landing, and lay down upon one of the
steps, to await her mistress's return. Whilst the
animal was there Mr. Morecombe came from his —
aw — his bedroom, and, not observing the dawn,
stepped upon it, which, I regret to say, caused him
to roll down at least half a dozen stairs ; but providentially
he caught hold of the banister and saved
himself from — aw — from serious injury. As it was,
he severely sprained his ankle, which necessitated
his removal to his bedroom, where he now lies."

"And in stepping upon Flora he trod what remained
of the poor beast's breath out of her, I
suppose ? " said my uncle, keeping his gravity
nobly ; for, upon my word, I believe, had I caught
the least shadow of a grin upon his face, I should
have exploded.

Yes," cried Miss Hawke, with the tears standing
in her beautiful eyes ; " papa thinks only of Mr.
Morecombe. When poor Flora was looked at she
was stone dead ; and will anybody' believe that Mr.
Morecombe did not see her, or that he did not tread
with all his weight out of spite ? " she added,
making a little passionate gesture with her hand.

Is he of a naturally cruel disposition ? " asked
my uncle of Mr. Hawke, with a little droop in his
right eyelid, which I took as meant for me.

"Cruel! certainly not," exclaimed the old gentleman
in his amplest manner, and expanding his
chest as he spoke. "Had he seen the poor dawn
he could of course have avoided her. Can you
suppose, Florence, that — aw — that he would deliberately
sprain his ankle? Yet you are bound,
my love, to presume this if you affirm that he
acted out of malice. Eee-diculous ! "

A footman announced dinner. Mr. Hawke gave
his arm to my aunt, and I heard him tell my uncle
to take Miss Hawke in ; but my uncle, instead of
offering his arm to Miss Florence, gave it to Miss
Emily, and left her sister to me. He thrust his

tongue in his cheek as he glanced at me over his
shoulder. Heaven bless him ! There never was
a finer creature. With Miss Florence on my arm
I followed the others, forming the tail of the procession.
The table was so plentifully covered with
flowers and tall silver candlesticks that Mr. Hawke
was, from his position at the head of it, unable to
see the order in which we had arrived until we
were all seated. But what could he say when he
saw me alongside Miss Hawke and my uncle next
to Miss Emily? His business was to ask a blessing,
which he did with his eyes closed and his hands
locked, and when that was over my uncle began to
talk to him, whilst one of the flunkeys served out
soup at a side table and the others handed it round.

I am very sorry for your sake," said I to Miss
Florence, "to hear of the death of poor old Flora.
It would have served your father's friend right had
he broken his neck — that is, if he stepped on the
dog purposely because she happened to be in the
road."

Flora was my poor mother's pet," she replied.
She has been a constant companion of mine for
years, and it bitterly grieves me to think that the
poor animal should have been killed at the last,
and cruelly killed, even admitting that Mr. More-combe
did tread upon her by accident. But we'll
say no more about it, Mr. Seymour ; I don't want
you to think me affected."

Here Mr. Hawke began to speak about the dog
in a loud voice.

The peculiarity, Mrs. Seymour, of the old
animal was — aw — was its capacity of fondness.
Some years ago it brought a cat out of the
water where the thing was — aw — was drowning.
Florence nursed the cat and made it well, and the
dawn grew so attached to the cat and the cat to
the dawn that they would — aw — I assure you, take
walks together. The cat was ultimately lost ; I
believe — aw — it strayed. Flora greatly missed it,
and until age rendered her imbecile she could
never hear the noise which cats are in the habit of
making at night without considerable agitation, a
circumstance that people who — aw — study dawns
might think affecting."

Considering that I wanted to preserve a solemn
face, that Miss Hawke might believe my sympathy
with her loss sincere — which it certainly was — I
say that the old fellow's story, or rather the
manner and tone in which he delivered it, was as
severe a trial as ever befel me. However, it did
not take me long to recover; the having Miss
Hawke alongside of me soon rendered me desperately
serious and sentimental. I knew old
Hawke was looking ; I had not the least doubt he
was extremely annoyed that his daughter should be
sitting next a young fellow whose admiration for
his lovely companion he could not and would not

disguise ; but I did not care a brass farthing for his
thoughts. It was a magnificent pleasure for mean
immense delight, to be in her company again
after the separation of a week, during which I had
hung about like a turnpike tramp in the hope of
catching sight of her. Besides, could I doubt that
she was pleased with me as a companion? She
could not help talking of Flora, and heartily did I
bless the ghost of the dead brute as a bond of
sympathy between its adorable mistress and me ;
and Flora led her to speak of Australia, and
Australia set me gabbling about my sea experiences,
and I told her one or two thrilling tales of saltwater
— of a ship on fire, of a black man overboard
in the Doldrums fighting with a shark, and such
things — and either related them so well, or she was
so anxious to be interested, that we seemed to forget
that the footmen were waiting to remove our plates,
that there were others beside ourselves at table, and
that old Hawke was watching us from behind the
silver candlesticks (though of course we were not
supposed to notice anything of that kind), until on
looking up once I caught Miss Emily staring at us,
and then glance at her papa, a circumstance that
made me cautious for about one minute and a
half, after which I was deep in stories, questions,
conversation again.

You will suppose from this that I did not lack
encouragement. In many things I was a conceited

young fellow in those days. I believe I was
tolerably good-looking ; I considered that I was not
destitute of intellect ; there was not a man living,
on or off the stage, whom I should have been afraid
to challenge to a dancing match, from a waltz to a
hornpipe ; 1 reckoned in such songs as " Tom
Bowling," " The Anchor's Weighed," and "Hocked
in the Cradle of the Deep," I could deliver as honest
a note as ever a sailor's lungs could find wind for
(though I never would sing before ladies) ; but I was
not such a fop as not to have been able to tell ina
moment whether my company was unwelcome to
Miss Florence, nor such a blundered as not to
have straightway hauled off from her under a press
of canvas had such a discovery been made by me.
If lively interest in my talk, if comparative neglect
of the rest of the company, if real earnestness in
her manner when earnestness was most acceptable
to me, if an occasional sideways peep at me as if
the view was rather to her taste — if such things ina
girl may be accepted as encouraging symptoms
by the young fellow she is alongside of, then I am
strictly within the truth when I say that all this
and a good deal more, much too nice and subtle
for the pen to determine, composed Miss Hawke's
bearing, manners, behaviour, speech to me that
evening at her papa's dining-table. And shall I
omit reference to the unspeakable relish afforded
this delightful communion by the reflection that

VOL. I. I

young Morecombe was abed upstairs with a sprained
ankle — an ankle, I say, sprained, to put the
fact squarely, by tumbling over Miss Hawke's
sensibilities.

"A fig for old Hawke ! " I cried to myself; and
as the old gentleman's excellent dry champagne
mingled with my blood and coursed through my
youthful veins, I grew more and more indifferent
to the looks of astonishment and annoyance I would
catch him throwing at us, and more and more
ardent in my behaviour to Miss Hawke ; so that I
may plainly assert that if I had come to that table
up to my neck in love, I had floundered clean out
of soundings long before the ladies withdrew.

Well, when they rose at last I nearly pitched
over my chair to hold open the door ; but not for a
small fortune would I have missed doing that same,
for as Miss Hawke passed she just raised her eyes
to mine with a little smile; it was the briefest
glance in the world, yet had it been a prolonged
gaze I could not have found more meaning in it.
My heart fell to beating as if I had received a
fright ; and I stood holding on to the door-handle
some moments after the last of the ladies had
passed out, rendered as I may suppose temporarily
incapable of employing my intelligence by the
transport of wonder and passion those sweet eyes
had kindled in me.
I returned to the table, and observed my uncle

casting glances around as if in search of something
to smoke. Old Hawke sat cold and hard in his
place ; there was no invitation for me to draw my
chair close; he mechanically pointed to the decanters
and named their contents with an expression
of face as if he wished us all at the devil.

'you're not a smoker, I believe, Mr. Hawke ? "
said my uncle.

•• No, I am not," he replied, "but I know you
are ; " and he called to one of his men to put a box
of cigars on the table. My uncle and I fired upas
why should we not, since the cigars were thereto
be smoked ? and 1 do not know that I enjoyed
Mr. Hawke's capital tobacco the less because I
noticed that he studiously avoided addressing me
or even looking at me.

After we had been sitting in this manner about
ten minutes, Mr. Hawke begged my uncle's pardon
for leaving him for a few moments : he was anxious
to see how Mr. Morecombe did ; he should be sorry
that his friend Sir Reginald Morecombe's son
should feel himself neglected.

Not very polite, Jack, to leave us, even for Sir
Reginald Morecombe's son," said my uncle when
Mr. Hawke was gone; "but squatting is a calling
for which one must make large allowances. Have
you enjoyed your dinner ? "

'• Very much," I replied.

(t I am glad to hear that," says he gravely ; u and

whilst it lasts, ray lad, I should go on enjoying it upto
the hilt ; for I calculate it'll be the only blow-out
I don't say the only blow-up — you'll get at
Clifton Lodge."

I am afraid that's pretty plain," said I.

You can't blame Hawke," continued my uncle.
Why, confound you ! you and Florence have been
as thick as thieves this evening ; never saw such a
hobnobbing in my life. Have you made her in love
with you ? You turned the old man into stone ; he
was like a statue, and could do nothing but look.
If he don't cut me and your aunt for this at once,
he'll drop us presently. You bet."

I hope not," said I.

You bet. But d'ye think I shall go into
mourning ? We'll invite him to dinner by way of
revenge next week, and if he accepts I give you
leave to shave my head. And, man ! wasn't your
getting Miss Hawke to take into dinner neatly
managed ? How was I to know which Miss Hawke
he meant ? " and he laughed at the top of his voice.

"Aren't you sorry Mr. Morecombe has sprained
his ankle ? " said I.

"Very," he replied. "If I'd foreseen this disaster
I'd have brought a few pockethandkerchiefs
with me."

Fancy squeezing the life out of the dog ! How
happy he must feel as he lies forking his leg up
and cursing at it ! " said I, turning over the fancy

and relishing it and garnishing it with my imagination.


Jack," exclaimed my uncle, looking at me with
one eye half closed, "d'ye know, if you have a
mind to win the girl, I'm disposed to stake a sum
of money on your chances. Mind, I don't believe
you'd ever get her dad's consent. You'd have to
bolt with her ; it would have to be the old rope-ladder
business, the midnight chaise or express, his
worship the registrar early in the morning, the
regular Lost Matilda and Anna Maria kind of
thing, against all which I solemnly caution you.
But what I'd be willing to wager on is, that with
a few more opportunities you'll bring Miss Florence
to listen — ay, and to like it — whilst you pour your
cheap poetry into her ears. And I hope, young
man," said he, deepening his voice and opening
his half-closed eye, and speaking very earnestly
indeed, "that unless you are absolutely sincere in
your feelings you'll sheer off from her before you
begin to make her think of you."

My dear uncle " I began.

"Hear me out!" cried he. "She is a sweet
woman, and I must have her approached with
immense honesty. I'll allow no flirting. You
must not drop the game by-and-by to consider
whether it is worth the candle. Oh, yes ! I can
see what's in your mind. Your admiration for her
Fills you with astonishment at my language. But

you are twenty-five, and at twenty-five the human
character is like sand, and the loveliest fabric of
sentiment that can be constructed upon it, cemented
by dreams, decorated with the sparkling gems of
imagination, and radiant with the light that
Wordsworth speaks of in his noble ode, may settle
and sink out of sight in a few hours like an old
collier on the Goodwin Sands."

My dear uncle " I began once more.

"There must be no tomfoolery," he continued.
Not," giving me a bow, " that I doubt you. No,
sir ; you are my brother Tom's son ; you have
been a sailor, and I know how to value those two
things. But do not go, I say, and make love to-florence
Hawke, and get her to fall in love with
you ; do not go and shove yourself in the way of
her papa's wishes, and deprive her of a man who,
ass as I think him, might, for all that you can tell,
turn out a very tolerable husband, unless you areas
certain that you can count upon your impassioned
sincerity and devotion for the rest of your
natural life, as surely as I can count at this
moment upon finding gold in my pocket by feeling
for it."

This was rather staggering talk to me. What
did he mean ? That I wasn't a man of honour ?
That I was a cockney flirt down at Bristol for a
holiday, trying to make a fool of the girl I had
fallen in love with and literally adored ? I was

turning over an answer in my mind when he
started off afresh.

"I should speak to you in the same fashion if
you had fallen in love with one of your cousins.
You are without a father, Jack, and as an uncle I
have a right to talk to you. There's nothing in life
that disgusts and angers me more than a male
flirt : a creature who pretends to fall in love,
makes a girl fond of him, and then drops her.
There's no halter long enough for such malignant
baboons. A woman is always an object to be
reverenced. She has emotions we men could not
fathom — no, not if all the deep-sea lead-lines in
the world were spliced together to sound her with.
Her love is not like ours, a thing apart : you know
the noble lines written by a scamp ? When it is a
woman's heart that is to be approached, my cry is,
1 Hats off and hands off ! Show your respect, for
you are on holy ground. And prove your honesty,
as the Scotchman does before paying money, by
pausing to tak' a thocht.' "

Do you imagine I am flirting with Miss Hawke?"
cried I.

No, sir ; I believe you are head over ears in
love with her. Keep so to the end; keep head
over ears though the end be fixed when the blast
announcing the crack o' doom shall be heard.
Don't go and scramble out after you have hauled
her in. Jack, don't you know, you miserable sailor

man you ! that love is too often mere electorate
with men? Wear brings the silver off. With
women it is all pure metal right through. Remember
that ; and in hauling away at your heart
in order to get it out of its moorings and offer it to
this girl, see that there is nothing of Birmingham
and Sheffield in the gift ; d'ye take me ? For if it
is only coating that makes it look bright and mass',
keep it where" it is, otherwise yell be committing
felony, cheating as badly as any rascally tradesman
who palms off pinchbeck for gold. Hush ! "

The door opened and Mr. Hawke stalked in.
My uncle immediately inquired after Mr. More-combe,
but I took no heed of the old gentleman's
replies. In truth I felt half stunned by the broadside
that had been poured into me. And yet it
was full of flattery too : it was like telling me that
I could win the girl if I chose, but that I was not
to attempt to do so without first feeling sure that
I was sincere in my desire to win her. My half-smoked
cigar hung idly and extinguished between
my fingers whilst I looked foolishly from Mr. Hawke
to my uncle, pretending that I was interested in
their talk, though I did not attend to a single word
that was said. Presently our host, addressing me
abruptly, but speaking with his dreadful formality
and pomp of delivery, exclaimed, " Will you finish
your cigar, Mr. Seymour, or have you — aw — had
enough ? The ladies, I fear, will be wondering at

EEV — our absence ? " On this I stood up and
followed them to the drawing-room.

The ladies formed a group at one end of the
room, though Miss Hawke sat a little apart
listening to the others. I went up to her at once,
not in the least caring how Mr. Hawke might relish
this renewal of my attention to his daughter ; for
1 was now rendered utterly defiant, not only by
being deeply in love, but by the perception that
Mr. Hawke was never likely to again ask me to
his house, and that therefore it would not signify
an atom whether I dissembled or not. I asked if
she had heard how Mr. Morecombe was ; she said
no. I told her that her father had been upstairs
to see him, and added : "He is a very lucky
young gentleman to be so highly esteemed by
your father'' She smiled, but made no observation.


I am afraid," said I, taking a squint at the
<>ld fellow, who was talking to my aunt, " I should
never be able to reach up to Mr. Morecombe's
moral stature in Mr. Hawke's opinion. Is it
because my head is not so well shaped as his, or
because I have not his honesty?" She watched
me with a partly-amused, partly-questioning expression.
" But neither brains nor characters, I
am afraid, are of much use in these days. Tell
me what is most liked, Miss Hawke ? what is the
most successful ? what do you value most ?"

Perfect sincerity, Mr. Seymour: the very rarest
thing in the world," she answered.

I was struck by this reply, that patty followed
what my uncle had said. One might have sworn
she had overheard him.

"When Mr. Hawke was upstairs," said I,
sinking my voice, which forced her to incline her
head to listen, and this was her posture when her
father turned to look at her, " my uncle read me a
most emphatic lecture on sincerity. He is a
sagacious man, careless perhaps of the world's
opinion, but with large and correct views of life.
He said that a man's love was like a plated teapot :
the silver came off through wear ; but a woman's
love, says he, is genuine metal all through."

Though it might not be silver, and, therefore,"
says she, laughing quietly, "not worth so much
as the plated teapot." And then, looking at me
earnestly, " Pray," she exclaimed, " what had Mr.
Seymour's teapot got to do with his lecture to you
on sincerity ? "

It was a simile — an image ; on the whole clever,
I thought," I replied.

What caused him to lecture you ? " she asked.

I must not tell," I said. "Yes, I will, though;
but not to you direct. It shall come to you through
Sophie."

At this point there was a bustle. Mr. Hawke
asked Amelia to sing, and she went to the piano,

followed by the old gentleman, who stood up still
alongside of her, like a parish-constable at a
meeting. Had Amelia been Pasta, or Patti, or
Tietjens, I must have gone on talking. She warbled
and I mumbled. Old Hawke faced round as much
as to say, " Good God ! will nothing silence that
villain's tongue ? " but I took no notice.

I fear," said I, "that this will be the last time
I shall ever have the pleasure of sitting in this
room with you."

Why do you say that ? " she exclaimed with
a quickness of manner that afforded me pure
delight. " Are you leaving Clifton ? "

No," said I. "I mean that I shall never be
asked here again."

The sweet girl tried to look astonished, but it
would not do ; she knew the truth, and yet my
whipping out with it in this fashion filled her with
wonder and amusement. Meanwhile Amelia piped
at the piano : —

Oh, fond nightingale, hee-dutiful nightingale.
Filling with music the moonlighted

Boom ! went the bass, and the word was lost.

Speak quite frankly, Mr. Seymour; I really do
not understand you," said Miss Florence.

Yes, you do, you darling," thought I ; " but
you want me to plain, and I'll be so." " The case
is this," said I. "I have been told — the news is
not nice — that Mr. Hawke is anxious to possess the

young gentleman who accidentally (no doubt) killed
our poor dear Flora, as a son-in-law." She coloured
up, but I was not to be stopped. " Your father is
a keen-sighted man, capable of reading the mind.
He has peered into mine, and witnessed there an
admiration for you which he is not going to tolerate
in a young fellow who is a plain mister, without
fortune, and who was bred to the rough and
savage calling of the sea. Hence my fears persuade
me this is my last visit here."

That I should have ventured so much but for
Mr, Hawke's champagne, which gave fluency to
my tongue and such an irrepressible ardency to
my thoughts as relieved me of all considerations of
taste, good or bad, I will not say ; but, having
made the speech, I was glad. It was not indeed a
declaration of love, but it came near enough to it
to make my meaning clear to the gentle heart
for whose instruction it was designed. But she
would let me say no more ; she endeavoured to
conceal the warm blush on her cheeks by cleverly
manoeuvring her fan ; but what she concealed from
the others she left visible to me, which I dare say
she found insupportable, for she left her chair and
went to an open window under pretence of drawing
the curtains, and there she stood alone until Amelia
had done her song, after which she joined my aunt,
having by that time regained her composure and
natural complexion. Yet let me say here that

there was nothing in her manner of leaving me
that indicated the least displeasure. Her quitting
her chair seemed to me no more than one of those
devices into which a maiden will be driven by stress
of blushing. I could not mistake.

I went over to Sophie and Miss Eniily Hawke,
wanting to see what sort of a girl this latter was.
1 thought she seemed a bit frightened when I sat
down near her. She stared at me hard when I
spoke, but presently a not unpleasant manner
came to my help, and perhaps her own. I was,
indeed, anxious that she should not dislike me,
whatever opinions her father might hold. I
expressed the sorrow with which I had heard of
her delicate health, and spoke with plenty of heart
in my meaning too, for no man could have looked
into that young girl's wan face, and noticed her
thin wrists and fingers and the expression of
suffering in her eyes, without compassion. Then I
talked to her about the lamented Flora, and
London, and kindled a light upon her face by
praising Sydney and bragging about Australia, as
though the world began at Cape Leeuwin and
ended at Cape York, until, what with my stories
and attempts at jokes, and the easy and plain, if
not free, manner that will come to a sailor as a
part of his sea-training, I rendered her as amiable
as I could desire. This was the only part of my
conduct that night that made Mr. Hawke seem

willing to unbend his gloomy wooden face when he
turned it my way. If there was a soft corner in
him I suppose that invalid bairn filled it ; and I
think he was as much pleased that I should be
amusing the poor delicate creature as that I was
no longer conversing in a low voice with Miss
Florence with my nose at her ear.

Yet the effort to produce a pleasing impression on
Miss Emily was a mighty hard one. She was not
overburdened with intellect. I have elsewhere said
that she had her papa's face ; I could not but feel
that she was her papa's child, and would perish in
support of his opinions and wishes : and so I was
like a needle trying my hardest to turn north and
having to contend with the flow of a steady demoralising
influence. All the time I was hoping that
Miss Florence would be courted by our lively voices
and join us ; it was this expectation that supported
me : and when I found that she would not come, I
gave up and sat without talking, looking moodily at
her, and, as is the custom of young lovers, turning
over all I had spoken, regretting the omission of
this, deploring the utterance of that, wondering
what would have been the effect had I said the
other, dwelling upon her assertion that nothing
pleased her so much as sincerity, coupling it with
my uncle's lecture at the dinner-table, wondering if
there was anything suspicious in my manner that
they should both address me on the same subject,

and how long it would take young ATorecoinbe's
sprained ankle to get well.

The evening was brought to a close by the announcement
of the arrival of my uncle's carriage.
When it came to my turn to say good-night to Miss
Florence, I could not help fancying from the lookin
her eyes that, had not the others stood around,
she would have said something more to me than
farewell. I might have been mistaken ; but be that
as it will, 1 could not let go her hand without giving
it a tender squeeze : and though I admit that it
was not returned, I can tell you this, mates, the
darling girl did not haul her fingers away from meas
if she had been burnt. But there was nothing
to whisper, nothing even to be looked, with old
Hawke like a policeman looming close alongside.
He gave me a finger-nail to shake, bowed ponderously
over his waistcoat, but expressed no pleasure
at all at having made my acquaintance, nor hinted
the least desire to have the honour of seeing me
again.

Not very much was said as we drove home : the
wheels made too much noise for comfortable talking,
nor can it be said that our postures were of the
easiest, I, as before, being squeezed between my
cousins, which forced me to give my uncle and aunt
opposite the benefit of my knees ; so that all I can
remember my uncle saying was, "Damme, Jack!
you seem all legs to-night ! " on which Sophie

panted into my ear, " Papa should say all heart ! "
But the drive only occupied a few minutes, and
presently we were in the dining-room at home, grog
on the table, my uncle in slippers, and my aunt
and cousins lingering for a chat before going to bed.
Of course our talk was of the dinner, and if we were
not so kind in our remarks about our host as people
usually are of the friends that entertain them, let it
be remembered that my uncle thought old Hawke a
prig, and that my cousins objected to his ideas on
marriage.

Do you really think Mr. Morecombe sprained
his ankle ? " asked Sophie generally.

No doubt of it," replied my aunt. " Why
should he sham?"

"Yes," says Sophie; "but having killed poor
Flora by treading on her, he might think the best
way to prove the thing was accidental was by
pretending he had hurt himself."

You should suggest that to Miss Hawke," said
I. " Shamming or not, I wish he had dined with
us ; I should like to have seen him and heard him
talk."

A foolish wish, Jack ! " cried my uncle. " Had
he been present what chance of flirting would you
have had ? "

"Don't call it flirting" said I warmly.

Eh ! " cried he, turning to his wife, " you should
have heard me lecture Jack this evening ! "Whilst

Mr. Hawke was upstairs learning his young

friend's aristocratic tendons, I " and he repeated

pretty nearly all he had before let fly at me.

"Sophie," said I, when he was done, "please
take a note of this, will you ? I promised Miss
Hawke that she should know through you what my
uncle said."

I am sure Jack doesn't stand in need of such
advice," exclaimed Sophie. "What tan you think
of him, papa, to talk about silver-plated hearts and
stuff of that kind ? "

"Stuff d'ye call it?" cried my uncle ; "why it
was first-class imagery. If Jack means to make
love to Florence, I want him to be in earnest. She
knows him through me ; I respect, admire, and am
very fond of her, and I don't want any tomfoolery."

H There's no tomfoolery here," said I. " And
yet — really — this talk of my making love — these
references to my being in earnest — are rather —

well, let me say " and not knowing what to say

I stopped, blushed, coughed, and, catching my
uncle's eye, laughed.

I cannot help thinking it is a pity," said my
aunt, fanning herself and looking somewhat
anxiously from one to the other of us as she spoke,
that we should be in any way, even indirectly, the
means of interfering, as it might seem, between
Mr. Hawke and his domestic views. I mean that
it would not matter one jot, and, indeed, no one

VOL. I. K

would be gladder than I, if Mr. Jack should be the
instrument of putting young Mr. Morecombe down,
and of saving Florence from what I have often said
I fear will be an unhappy future. For no woman
can live happily with a fool. But it would have
been better, I think, if Mr. Jack could have acted
independently of us — if he could have fallen in love
with Miss Hawke and paid her attention — as he did
to-night, and how annoyed Mr. Hawke looked ! —
without our having, as it might be, anything to do
with it."

"Well, and what hare we to do with it?" exclaimed
my uncle. " We're only responsible for
his introduction. We can't help his falling in
love."

"No, I quite see that," responded my aunt
thoughtfully; "but still I am afraid that Mr.
Hawke is annoyed."

With us, do you mean, Sophia ? " cried my
uncle.

Yes, I think he was. He was cool, I thought."

"And what then?"

"Well," said she, " you see we're neighbours."

And what then ? "

"Well, I should not like him to think that — I
mean, it would seem unfriendly on our part to act
as if it gave us pleasure to thwart his wishes."

Nonsense ! " said my uncle. " What are we
supposed to know about his wishes ? Why, confound

him, I'm an honest man to his child than
he is. Here I see my nephew admiring her, hanging
about her, and behaving as a young fellow
would who wants to get a girl to love him; and
thereupon I give him a lecture upon the subject
of women's feelings worth its weight in gold, and
dismiss him with this injunction : Be honest, be
sincere, or sheer off! But how does the father
act? He meets an old man called Sir Reginald
Morecombe ; he brings this old man's son to his
house, and in a manner forces him upon his
daughter, not because he values her happiness, not
because she is a restless creature who had better
marry a sucking baronet than her papa's coachman,
but because he is eaten up by the parvenu's ambition
of improving his social position by importing
blood into his family."

I agree with every word you say, Charles," exclaimed
my aunt; "but," added she inconsequentially,
" I know it will end in Mr. Hawke
cutting us."

The sun will still shine, mamma," said Sophie.

"And the flowers grow," said Amelia.

Well, if nobody will understand me," cried my
aunt, "there is no use in my going on talking."

understand you," said I, who had listened to
this conversation with very mingled emotions, as
any man may suppose. " You consider that I am
not acting a proper part in doing anything likely to

disturb the friendly feelings which exist between
your family and the Hawkes ?"

Twaddle ! " rumbled my uncle in his gizzard.

"You consider, perhaps," I continued, "that I
did not behave very decorously in so bearing myself
this evening towards Miss Hawke as to vex her
father, and make him seem cool towards you for
introducing me''

Bosh ! " growled my uncle.

Well," continued I, not noticing my uncle's
interruptions, "if this is what you think, I must
admit that you are right. But what was I to do ?
Miss Hawke invited me to her papa's house, and I
went. I took her in to dinner and sat next to her :
how was I to behave ? "

Look here, Jack ! " shouted my uncle, " enough
of this. Take a cigar, man ; take a cigar. Sophia,
next week we return this dinner, d'ye hear ? "

Mr. Hawke will not accept," said my aunt.

"We'll risk it," exclaimed my uncle. "But
understand — if he don't accept, I shall put his
refusal down, not to Jack yonder, but to my wide-awake
and boots. I shall consider that we're not
good enough for him."

My aunt and Amelia drew themselves up at this.
I'm sorry your nephew should hear that, at all
events," said the former. " Not good enough for
Mr. Hawke ? Bee-ally, Charles ! "

My uncle seemed to find this stroke of indignation

exquisite, for he laughed until the tears rolled down
his cheeks; and indeed, my aunt's " Eee-ally,
Charles ! " was almost as good in its way as old
Hawke's " Ree-ridiculous ! " But, humorous as it
might he, for my part I was not in the mood to
appreciate the fun of it. I could not but see that
if the Hawkes and my relations were to remain
friends I must take leave of Clifton, or, at all
events, clear out of my uncle's house. I was full of
these bothersome fancies when my aunt and cousins
bade me good-night. Great-hearted Sophie, noticing
the gloom on my brow and wishing to send me to
bed happy, whispered as she squeezed my hand,
You are making Florence very fond of you, Jack ;
I am sure she likes you exceedingly," and tripped
out of the room. Her words were like a dram to
a fainting man ; yet I still felt very worried as I
resumed my chair and lighted another cigar.

What was that Sophie croaked in your ear just
now ? " inquired my uncle.

Nothing of consequence," I replied.

The girls don't sympathize with their mother
as regards old Hawke, d'ye observe, Jack ? " said
lie; " they take after me. Not that your aunt likes
the man. I know what's in her mind. Mr. Hawke
is a neighbour : we have exchanged civilities and
hospitality ; his girls are pleasant companions for
my daughters ; and whilst your aunt would be the
first to clap you on your back and help your love-making

in all ways possible — so heartily does she
object to the sort of marriage old Hawke wants to
bring about — if you were an outsider, no relation,
merely a friend who lived in the town ; yet being
my nephew and owing your knowledge of the
Hawkes to us, she hangs back, and is foolish enough
to trouble herself over what Hawke may think, and
the prospect of his cutting us."

Uncle," said I, "I am in a very uncomfortable
position. I feel that, under the circumstances, I
have no right to remain here ; and yet I am so
deeply obliged to you all for your affectionate kindness,
that I feel I should be acting with brutal
ingratitude if I even hinted that I ought to pack up
and be off."

Quite right, the cruellest ingratitude," said he
with twinkling eyes ; "so therefore what d'ye say.,
as you common sailors observe, to take a turn with
this jawing tackle ? "

But it is only right I should tell you," continued
I, "that though to save my aunt from any mortification
I should deem it my duty to leave your house "
(he made a dreadful grimace as I used these words),
"it is not at all probable that I should quit the
neighbourhood."

"What!" cried he. "Are you so far gone as
that ? "

I'll not put it in that way," said I, speaking
very calmly ; " but I'll answer by saying that I amin

love with Florence Hawke, and that I could no
more dream of returning to London and giving up
all chance of seeing her again this side of her
marriage with young Morecomhe, or any other man
her father may induce her to take, than I could of
cutting off my nose in the hope of improving my
beauty''

"Well, smite my timbers ! " cried he, looking
at me wonderingly and talking through his nose,
as his custom was when suddenly excited ; "if
ever I could believe you were so much in earnest.
Confound ye, I believe you'd marry the girl
tomorrow."

This instant ! " I replied warmly.

But have you reflected ? " cried he, running his
eye over me. "Are you sure of your own meaning ?
Is it possible that a man can fall in love safely in
the short time you have known Miss Florence ? "

"Yes," said I stoutly, "quite possible."

And you wouldn't leave Clifton now, even if
you give us up ! "

Assuredly not ! " I replied.

"Well, roast me ! " cried he, viewing me with a
kind of admiration ; "if this don't beat cockfighting.
But how d'ye calculate on getting to
windward of the old fellow and young Morecombe ? "
continued he, talking inquisitively.

If I can teach her to love me she'll have me, if
she's the woman I believe her to be," I answered.

Well, bang me, if this don't beat cock-fighting ! P
he cried again. "By jingo, Jack, you'll get ber —
you're bound to win — if this is your policy. Why,
you have only to make her as much in earnest as
you are and the old Hawke '11 have to take "wing —
he'll have to mizzle. Oppose 'em ; " he ejaculated,
looking at me, and talking as though he were
thinking aloud. " Why, there's something in the
will of two resolved young lovers that makes them
lit to conquer all creation — aye, were the globe
populated entirely with Hawkes. Well, may I be
smothered this blessed night if I'm not considerably
astonished too," said he, pitching his cigar through
the open window and rising. "Oh for a talking
owl, that I might despatch the mouser with news of
your ideas to old Hawke, who by this time should
be abed, nightcap on, smiling as he dreams of
blood ! "

He laughed so heartily that it took him several
minutes to light his candle, and after I had closed
my bedroom door I could hear the rumbling of his
half smothered laughter in the passage, as if he
waited for the fit to subside before entering his
wife's room.

Chapter VII.

MISS hawke 's instructions.

My uncle's merriment was not contagious. For my
part I never in all my life felt less disposed to
laugh than after I had said good-night to him. It
was anything but pleasant to reflect that my visit
was likely to end in making the Hawkes and my
relatives enemies. My uncle might pooh-pooh ;
my cousins might give me their sympathy ; but it
was clear that my aunt had strong opinions on the
subject of our duty towards our neighbours, and
that she found my admiration of Miss Hawke objectionable
— at all events, whilst I was her guest.
Therefore, as I had not the least notion of quitting
the neighbourhood in which Miss Hawke resided, it
was for me to consider whether I should risk offending
my uncle by quitting his house whilst there was
yet time to save a rupture between the two families,
or insure a quarrel by remaining.

Now, to offend so large-hearted and kind a
creature as my uncle would have been the very

hardest obligation that could have been imposed on
rne. I had paid him and my aunt the poor compliment
of falling in love with a friend of the family
under their daughters' noses. Yet, instead of
resenting this, my uncle had applauded my taste,
my cousins had as good as given me to understand
that I might count upon them as allies, and if my
aunt had played a neutral part, neither helping nor
discouraging me, it was, beyond doubt, because she
did not want Mr. Hawke to find an excuse for taking
offence at the behaviour of a young gentleman who
owed his introduction to Clifton Lodge to his uncle
and herself. Therefore, bearing the goodness and
warm-heartiness of these people in mind, I say it
was very hard for me to guess what was the right
thing to do.

However, I thought my best plan would be to
take Sophie into my confidence and ask her
advice ; and after breakfast next morning — during
which, by the way, I do not remember that any
reference was made to the Hawkes nor their dinner
I followed her into the grounds, and begged her
to give me ten minutes somewhere out of the heat
of the sun, as I had something to say to her.

What is it, Jack ? " says she.

I am going to open my heart to you," said I,
and want your judgment. You remember what
was said in the dining-room last night ? "

"Very well indeed," she replied. "But you

should not take great notice of what mamma says.
She is a little peculiar in some things — too sensitive,
as papa thinks. She owns she does not like
Mr. Hawke very much, and yet she seems
frightened at the idea of giving him offence."

"It is her being frightened," said I, "that
makes my position here embarrassing."

But you need not mind her being frightened,
I tell you. It is ridiculous. Suppose Mr. Hawke
takes it into his head to cut us. Who cares ?
Florence will remain friendly, depend upon it,
and she is the only one of the lot we like."

You say, ' Suppose Mr. Hawke takes it into his
head to cut us.' Now if he cuts 3*011 it will be
through me. I do not like the notion : and here
am for you to advise."

"What upon?"

"Is it not my duty to pack up and leave your
house ?"

First of all, Jack, why do you want to leave ? "
says she.

That Mr. Hawke may have no excuse to cut
you."

"Really, Jack," she exclaimed, " I thought you
were a clever hoy, but I find you stupid. Do you
suppose that an* of us values Mr. Hawke's acquaintance
sufficiently to induce us to raise a
finger to prevent him from cutting us if he wants
to do so*"

Well, Sophie, I am forced to judge to a large
extent by what your mother says."

"Perhaps you want to go?" says she, looking
at me.

"Ay, look your hardest: you'll see nothing
resembling that wish," I answered. "Want to
go, do I ? Want to leave these flowers and trees,
and that hospitable home and the kind hearts in
it? No, no. I am very well satisfied. Only I
cannot stay — I could not be happy were I to stay
if I felt that my presence distressed your mother
as a kind of standing annoyance to Mr. Hawke."

"Bother Mr. Hawke ! " exclaimed the dear girl,
pouting. " Why do you talk of him ? I thought
you were going to speak of Florence."

"So I am. She is involved in all this. It
concerns her more than anybody else."

"How? since you talk so coolly of feeling it
your duty to leave Clifton, and of course her?"

Oh, make no mistake, Sophie," said I, shaking
my head and very gravely laughing. "I don't
mean to leave Clifton, and I don't mean to leave
her. If I quit that house there, it will be only
to retire to a lodging in Bristol, or hereabouts.
No, no, cousin : I am in love with Florence
Hawke, and rest assured I am not the man to
leave young Morecombe, or anybody else, a clear
field, until she, and only she, orders me to sheer
off."

Let us sit down, Jack," said Sophie ; " this is
very interesting' and her face took the expression
I have sometimes noticed in a girl when she comes
to an exciting part of a novel.

You whispered last night, Sophie dear," said
I, "that I might he sure Miss Hawke liked me.
Did you say that merely to encourage me, or do
you positively know it to be true ? "

I positively know it to be true."

"How did she convey it'? What were her
words?" said I, ogling the fat and amiable face
alongside of me.

Why, she said it several times. Last evening,
for instance, when she accompanied us upstairs
before leaving, I said to her, ' Florence, I really
believe you have made nry cousin Jack in love
with you.' She laughed and answered, ' I believe
I have, dear.' I said, 'Are you glad?' 'I don't
know,' she answered; 'I won't say; you repeat
everything ! ' ' Indeed I don't,' said I. ' But
although he is my cousin I'm not afraid to say
he is worth twelve dozens of Reginald More-comes."
She cried ' Hush ! ' and looked at mamma,
who was having her cloak fastened by Amelia.
Have you no message for him ? ' said I. She
put her hand over my mouth and told me not to
be silly. Is that enough for you, Jack ? "

I have often wondered what sort of a face mine
was whilst Sophie talked in this strain. To judge

from my feelings nothing could have been more
imbecile from the ludicrous delight expressed in it.

"Oh, Sophie!" I cried, "you are a sweet
creature to tell me all this. Is not she a darling
girl ? Leave Clifton ! No — though every lodging
in Bristol city was full, and there was nothing but
an old bathing-machine to sleep in."

"But what are your ideas?" asked Sophie.
"Mr. Hawke is certainly not likely to encourage
you."

He may die," said I. "I only want Florence
to be true."

Sophie heaved a sigh. All this was in her vein ;
it was better than a story, for it was real and
happening before her; it abounded in living
sentiment, and, best of all, she was having a finger
in it.

"You must make her fond of you, and then
she'll be true," said she.

"I will," I replied; "but you must give mea
hand, Sophie. The time will come when I shall
only be able to meet her by stealth — if, indeed, she
ever consents to meet me secretly : and who is
there but you to whom I could trust the messages
I should want to send her ? "

But if Mr. Hawke cuts us, and forbids Florence
to have anything to do with us, out of fear of
you "

That's just it ! " I cried, fetching my knee a

blow. " There you exactly hit what I'm afraid
of: and hence, if not for your aunt's sake, then for
my own, ought not I to clear out of this at once,
and let old Hawke suppose I have left Clifton ? "

She reflected, and then said, "No; better let
things take their chance. There's nothing like
honesty, Jack. Hiding is mean. Besides, it's
undignified. Are you not good enough to be
Mr. Hawke's son-in-law? What is his wealth
but a kind of peppermint that disguises a nasty
flavour ? If you hide and meet Florence secretly,
even supposing, as you say, that she consented to
appointments of that kind, you would only be
humbling yourself in her papa's opinion when he
came to hear of you, and lead him to suppose you
were ashamed of yourself for daring to look so high
as his daughter, and therefore skulked, as papa
would say."

"But it must be plain to you, Sophie," said I,
"that if I am to exhaust old Hawke's patience, I
can't go on living in yonder house. There is a limit
fjven to your father and mother's hospitality, and
old Hawke may hold out for the next ten years."

"Don't trouble yourself about him for the
present," responded the sagacious girl. " Think
of Florence."

"You mean, I must win her love before disturbing
myself about her papa?" Sophie nodded.
Is it to be done, my darling ? "

Now, Jack, if you cannot answer that question,
how should I ? "

True, Sophie, true : but what I want to say is,
if her house is closed against rue, and a coolness
springs up between her family and yours, how the
dickens am I to see her ? "

Amelia and I must arrange that matter somehow,"
said she, knitting her plump brow in deep
reflection. " I don't suppose, even if Mr. Hawke
should cut us, that he could compel Florence not to
speak to us if we met her ; and there really ought
to be no difficulty in our meeting her, nor in your
being with us when we do meet."

Oh, you clever girl ! " cried I, seizing her hand
and squeezing it. " But didn't your papa say I
was safe in your "

Why talk of there's Florence now ! " she

exclaimed bouncing off the seat, and she ran as
hard as she could pelt across the lawn towards the
carriage-drive, along which Florence Hawke was
quietly walking.

I had a mind to follow, and I should have done
so had Miss Hawke shown by her manner that she
saw me. They kissed, and I expected them to
come my way : but instead, they walked towards
another part of the grounds after exchanging a
few words, and disappeared behind the house. I
remained seated, for I supposed that Sophie would
not let her friend go away without bringing her tome

or calling to me to join them ; and sure enough,
in about twenty minutes — but not before ; and it
might have been twenty days for the tediousness
of it as a bit of expectancy and waiting — they
came slowly along the walk on the right of the
house. I stood up and bowed to Miss Hawke,
whose surprise on seeing me I accepted as perfectly
genuine. A little colour ran into her cheeks, but
if she felt any embarrassment she showed none.
With perfect composure she advanced and shook
hands with me, and at once accepted Sophie's
invitation to sit a few minutes in the shade before
going into the hot sunshine. The feeling that my
cousin and I had been deep in talk about her
infused a sort of shyness in me. After all,
bachelors are much more ingenuous and simple-hearted
than is believed. On the other hand, she
was as lady-like and sweet and self-possessed as if
we had never met before.

What a very cool and fragrant nook this is,
Mr. Seymour ! " said she. " I wish we had such
grounds as these." '

Jack is afraid of his complexion, Florence,"
said Sophie. " That is why he sits under the
trees."

I left my complexion ashore when I went to
sea," I remarked, " and when I returned, although
I looked for it, I could not find it. How is Mr.
Morecombe this morning, Miss Hawke ? "

VOL. i. l

He is likely to be confined to his room for
some days. But why do you ask ? — do you hope
he is better ? "

Jack is a most bloodthirsty man, Florence,"
cried Sophie. " He said he wished Mr. More-combe
had broken his neck instead of twisting his
leg for stepping on poor Flora."

"I suppose," said I, "you will be having the
animal buried soon ? "

She was buried this morning," answered Miss
Hawke. " I shall have a little stone erected over
her. Don't smile, Mr. Seymour."

I am not going to cry, Miss Hawke ; but I give
you my word I have not the least disposition to
smile."

"A dog," said Sophie," is often the faithfulness
friend one has ; and if a faithful friend don't
deserve a tombstone, I am sure I don't know who
does. Florence, will there be any harm in my
repeating to Jack what you have told me?"

Do you mean now, dear ? " exclaimed Miss
Hawke, looking confused.

"If you like," said Sophie. "It is all his
doing. He will have to hear about it sooner or
later."

"If it is not to be a secret, Miss Hawke, I won't
ask you to trust me," said I, deeply admiring her
as she sat looking down, a warm colour in her
cheeks, her beautiful eyes half veiled, the gold

threads in her hair glancing in the twinkling green
shadows cast by the trees, her faultless shape
most excellently expressed by the glove-like fit of
her simple morning dress.

"It is no secret," she replied, rallying and
speaking quietly. "It concerns the friendship
between your relatives and my family".

The long and short of it," burst out Sophie
with great heat, "is this: Mr. Hawke has
requested Florence to discontinue her visits here.
I know she doesn't like me to tell you this before
her, but I must either speak or die, for I have
never heard of anything more ridiculous and
unnecessary."

What have you done to annoy Mr. Hawke,
Sophie '?" said I.

"What have we done? You mean what have
you done ? " she cried. " You have dared to
admire Florence, and for that our dear friend
here" (kissing her) "is commanded to drop our
acquaintance ! "

This was a tremendous stroke on Sophie's part.
I understood it ; I saw its prodigious value to
myself, but I confess I was awed by its audacity.
That she was distressing Miss Florence to an
extremity by whipping out with all this before me,
I could witness in the blushing face of the girl,
whose instincts were apparently helpless, for she
evidently did not know whether to go or stay, or

how so to behave as to give by her conduct the
least possible significance to Sophie's blunt
candour. But it was a noble opportunity for nie,
though cruelly obtained, and, trembling as I was
and my heart beating wildly, I would not lose it.

Were ten times worse than this to follow," said
I in a low voice to disguise the shake in it, "I
should still go on admiring you, Miss Hawke.
But if I am to be the only impediment to your
visits here, Mr. Hawke may at once withdraw his
commands, for I will leave my kind relations."

I trust you will do nothing of the kind, Mr.
Seymour," exclaimed Miss Hawke, keeping her eyes
rooted to the ground. "I shall obey my father,
though I am disobedient now in calling; but it
will not be my fault if your relatives do not remain
the same warm friends of mine I have always
found them."

Here Sophie shed tears. " Oh, Florence, you
know we all love you ! How cruel and silly your
papa is ! — yes, cruel and silly ! — boo ! boo ! "
And, lo ! whilst she boo'd Miss Florence pulled
out her pocket handkerchief and put it to her eyes.
Was there ever a more moving sight ! I protest,
mates, I was very near turning to and having a
bit of a snuffle on my own account.

It is a most unhappy business," said I. " But
there is only one remedy : I must go. I cannot
remain in a family whose peace of mind I am

disturbing, and whose friends I am alienating. I
ought never to have come to Clifton. What made
my uncle go and find me out ? I have brought
trouble on him, and misery — yes, I will say misery
on myself. And if you wish to know what I
mean, Miss Hawke. I'll explain by saying that it
is miserable to feel that I have no further opportunity
of meeting you, of being in your company,
of even seeing you."

Here Sophie bounced up. " Florence, before
you go I want to say a word to Amelia about your
visit. Don't leave before I return'' and away she
bundled across the lawn.

It was a neatly contrived stratagem, very transparent,
and of course as easily seen through by
Miss Hawke as the impassioned young chap alongside
of her. Possibly Sophie judged by my speech
that I was in a fit condition to make love, and so
hauled off at what she reckoned the right moment.

I hope my cousin's candid tongue has not
vexed you, Miss Hawke," said I. " You will
ascribe her outspokenness to indignation. She
loves and admires you, and is angry to think that
she may lose you as a friend through no fault of
her own."

Sophie is not a girl to vex anybody," she
replied. " Nor will she lose me as a friend."

"And I?"

"Oh, Mr. Seymour, we must hope to meet each

other occasionally in our walks — that is, whilst
you remain here," she said, answering with some
confusion ; and then, perhaps fancying that I
might find more in that answer than she intended,
she added, " Clifton is not a very large place, and
people are constantly meeting''

"I quite understand," said I, making her a
little how. "But the sort of meetings you mean
promise but a poor look-out for me."

But you have threatened to leave, and deprive
yourself, therefore, of even such small consolation
as a passing bow might afford you," said she,
laughing and talking more easily, though all this
while she never looked at me.

I did not say I should leave the neighbourhood,"
I replied ; " only that house yonder."

This hove the darling right into the wind's eye
again. She was all aback in a breath, blushing,
bothered, and yet liking it ; couldn't I tell that ?

Miss Hawke," said I, plucking up my heart
for a header, and going in, so to speak, with my
eyes shut and my hands clenched, "I'm but a
plain young fellow — I don't mean plain in the
sense of ugliness : my sea training has knocked
all power out of me of capering and smirking and
stepping round an emotion like a French dancing-master.
I can do no more than speak out, and
though I don't feel it is fair that I should be
tackling you alone here, calling as you have without

expecting to see me " (here she turned her
beautiful eyes up to me for the first time as if she
would say, 'Are you quite sure of that? 9 ) 3 "yet,
as I may not have another chance, I must tell you
how deeply I admire you — no, no, let me he honest
let me say love you. From the moment I set
eyes on you sitting in that drawing-room over
there, with your poor old dog at your feet, you
have never been out of my thoughts. It seems
but yesterday — ay, you smile — well, the time ha
been short enough. But then, think how much
we have been together, how kind and sweet and
gentle you have been to me. That is no compliment
I know — sou could not be otherwise. Of
course I ought not to talk to you like this. Mr.
Hawke would think me a villain were he behind
that tree ; but then I reckon no man ever yet told
a girl he was in love with her but that there was
some relative who would rather he should have
poisoned himself. You'll go away laughing when
you think of me — more amused than angry at my
presumption. But I've had my say ; you know
the truth ; and let your father now head you on
what course he will, no power on earth can prevent
sou from remembering that the young sailor fellow,
Jack Seymour, whom you met at his uncle's house,
was devotedly in love with you, the first girl he
ever saw in his life whom he could break his
clumsy young heart over."

Mates, what do you say to this as a love-speech ?
How does it read ? I know it's an outburst that
staggers me to recall — plenty of it too, mind you,
and handsomely rounded like a bit of Parliament
jaw. Well I remember it, and that you may not
think I've improved it in the writing, let me tell
you you have the very words I used. It gave her
time to rally, and she stood up, and, looking at me
bravely, " Best assured, Mr. Seymour," says she,
that, let my future be what it will, I shall always
remember what you have said to me with pride"
and my darling was going on, but her colour
suddenly failed her, she put out her hand, and
said, " Good-bye."

Won't you wait for Sophie ? " said I, keeping
hold of her hand. " Don't go without seeing her."

She smiled faintly and replied, "Sophie has
forgotten us. Besides, though I am not breaking
my word to papa, for I could not make him the
promise he wanted, I am here against his wish,
and must go. Good-bye." And in a moment she
was walking quickly to the gate watched by me,
who, for love of her, would have cheerfully consented
to crawl on my hands and feet after her
to her father's house, merely to kiss the imprint
of her feet.

Scarcely had she disappeared when Sophie came
along. "Where's Florence?" she asked.

Gone home," said I.

My cousin took a long look at me. The agitation
that worked in my soul was expressed, small
doubt, in my face.

"Did you say anything to drive her away,
Jack ? " asked she.

I told her I was in love with her — that's all,"
I answered.

I thought you would — I thought you would ! "
cried she, looking mighty pleased. " Indeed, I
meant that you should. Why did I leave you
alone with her but for that? I had nothing to
speak to Amelia about. Haven't even seen Amelia.
What did Florence say? "

"Why," I answered, "she said that, let her
future be what it would, she would always remember
my words with pride."

Did she now — really ! And what did you say
to that?"

You see, my dear, it was her answer to what I
had already said."

But what was it that you said, Jack? I ought
to know. Good gracious, how can I help you if
you don't tell me what goes on ? "

Well," said I, mumbling a trifle, for there is
no unpleasant job a man can be set to than
having to recite the stuff he mouths to a girl in
an impassioned moment — it's like hearing an old
love-letter read out before a crowd ; "I told her
that I was devotedly in love with her, and that, let

her father do what he pleased, he could never
make her forget that Jack Seymour had told her
she was the first girl he had ever met in his life
whom he could break his clumsy young heart
over."

Did you say that really '! " cried Sophie, with
a face upon her as if she were witnessing a sentimental
comedy when the most exciting part was
being acted. "How very pretty ! Florence is sure
to have liked that* But why ' clumsy ' young
heart ? ' Young heart ' is very well, but why
clumsy, Jack ? "

"Look here, Sophie," said I, "when a man
feels as I do and has to speak up, he says what
comes into his mouth out of his feelings. I felt I
talked clumsily, and that's why I used the word
clumsy. Don't criticize, or you'll make me think
I could have done better — an unpleasant reflection
when it's too late."

At all events, you have confessed your feelings
to her," exclaimed Sophie. " She knows the truth
now."

Yes, she knows the truth now," said I ; " and
it will be in her mind when young Morecombe's
leg gets well enough to enable him to plump down
on his knees to her — for I suppose he'll be proposing
marriage soon. Did she come here expressly
to. tell you that her father had forbidden
her to call ? "

Yes. She was going to write, but was afraid
that she should not be able to make herself fully
understood in a letter. Besides, might not she
hope to get just another peep at the sailor man
she has fascinated ? "

You mean to say, then, that Mr. Hawke has
actually forbidden her to visit you? "

Whilst you are here*' answered Sophie.

"Oh!" said I.

I'll give you the story as she told it me,"
exclaimed Sophie. " Last night, after we had left,
her father inquired if you and she had met before
that evening. Florence wanted to know why he
asked such a question. 'Because,' said he, 'of
the familiarity of young Mr. Seymour's manner to
you.' Florence denied that you were familiar, on
which Mr. Hawke flew into a rage, asked if his
daughter thought him blind, declared she had
encouraged you, and ordered her to say whether
she and you had met before. Of course she told
him the truth ; and on her informing him that she
had dined with us on the evening of your arrival,
that you had accompanied her and Amelia to the
Cathedral and taken a drive afterwards, and then
lunched at Clifton Lodge, his anger, she admitted,
was so great that he could barely speak.
1 Florence,' said he, ' I utterly forbid you to call
again upon the Seymours, or have any further
intercourse with them whilst that young man

remains in their house.' She said, 'Very well,
papa ; but I must explain why to them, and I
certainly will not promise not to speak to Sophie
and Amelia if we meet out of doors.' What more
passed she did not tell me. No doubt he fumed
and stamped and went on rating her. Those
pompous men who are so anxious about the
world's opinion are often mean creatures and
tyrants in their own homes, when there are no
spectators but their family. She said her first
idea was to write ; then she resolved to call this
morning and tell mamma or me or Amelia that
her papa had forbidden her to visit us, and
why."

That shows how much she likes you all," said
I. " She is a sweet woman — so tender and
sympathetic. I doubt if she would have the heart
to pick a flower for fear of causing it pain."

"I don't know about that, Jack," said Sophie.
She is very fond of picking flowers. But, as you
say, her calling shows a very great liking for us,
for in a measure she has defied her papa by doing
so. And her coming at once proves her anxiety to
immediately prevent any chance of our misjudging
her. Amelia and I and she have been so much
together, that had a couple of days passed without
our seeing her we should have wondered."

"And have called, perhaps, and been affronted
by old Hawke or his flunkeys. To save you any

risk of that kind might be one of her reasons incoming
here in a hurry after her father's kick-up.
How does she speak of Alphonso ! In bitterness ? "

"Oh no; in sorrow"' replied Sophie. "She
softened the story in every way— I'm sure of that.
And all the time there was a kind of apology for
herself in her manner, as if it distressed her to
present her father in a disagreeable light ; though
if she were to talk at all about him she must speak
the truth'"

What do you think will be the end, Sophie ? "
said I. "Will her father get his way with her as
regards young Morecombe ? "

"No," cried she, warmly; "not in a thousand
years. All that he is doing makes her hate Mr.
Morecombe. Her spirit is not to be shaped by a
will — even though it be her father's — that she
cannot respect."

Just my idea ! just my theory of her ! " I
exclaimed in a rapture.

Though'' continued Sophie, " I think this of
Florence : her father will never get her to marry a
man she does not care about ; but I do not think
she would ever marry in opposition to her father's
wishes. She would never become a wife to please
her father only ; but she'll die an old maid, I am
convinced, rather than defy him in the other
direction."

"There's no use in telling me that," said I.

my spirits dropping in me like mercury before a
tempest.

"It's your own fault," laughed she; "you will
ask questions." And, looking at her watch, she
was about to leave me, saying something about
expecting a dressmaker.

14 Before you go, dear," said I, "just tell me,
will you, how: much of what has happened this
morning do you intend to repeat to your family ? "

"All that I know," [she answered, "which of
course excludes your piece of love-making."

"I am going into Bristol for a stroll," said I.
Please tell your mamma I shall not return to
lunch. I want to have a look at the city docks —
the corporation quays, don't you call 'em?"

Don't go near the water, Jack," said she ;
there's a suicidal look in your face."

"No fear," said I. "I'm not born to be
drowned, as I found out when I fell overboard once
from a yardarm. Sophie, have I thanked you
for the interest you are taking in my — in my —
what shall I call it ? — in that sentimental business
which your father's invitation to Clifton has
plumped me into ? If I have not, accept now my
heartfelt gratitude. I am in earnest, Sophie. As
surely as that sky yonder is blue — is it, by the
way ? " said I, taking a squint aloft to make sure ;
"yes, a noble, deep-sea, South Pacific blue — so
surely do I intend to try my dead best — all that

I know — to win Florence's love and possess her asa
wife. But I look to you and Amelia — and to you
chiefly — to help me."

I'll help you, Jack."

• The odds against me are immense."

Yes, they aiv ; but it is the odds which make
the fun and the interest"'

Ay, to others," I grumbled, as she made off
after taking another peep at her watch.

"Well, she was a dear girl. I sometimes think I
ought to have made a sweetheart of Sophie
Seyinour. How kind she was to listen to me and
encourage me ! She was a young lady who had never
had a lover, and had passed through life without
obtaining an' further attention from men than plain
civilities. Alien, instead of sneering at two young
people whose friends are one too many for them,
instead of viewing their transports with a jaundiced
eye. wondering that people can make themselves
ridiculous, and siding with the relatives of the
spoons — when, I say, instead of doing all this, a
girl, destitute as Sophie was of tender experiences,
turns to and lays hold of the rope the lovers are
hauling upon, and pulls with them with all their
might, singing out cheerily as she drags, and urging
them to keep up their spirits and never dream of
letting go — then, mates, she deserves a pair of wings
and a crown on her head. She is of the right sort,
a real blessing. And do you know I have more

than once thought that if the male of the two people
she helps were to drop the lady he is in tow of,
and tackle the woman who is lending them botha
hand, he would now and again do better than if
he held on to his original choice.

CHAPTER VIII.

I TAKE LODGINGS.

My motive in walking into Bristol was not to inspect
the docks and shipping, but to hire a lodging. I
did not relish the errand. It was a blow to be
obliged to give up my noble bedroom at my uncle's.,
and the comfortable and plentiful hospitality of his
table, because old Hawke was a prig and a twopenny
squatter, who wanted his daughter to marry
a baronet's son, and would not suffer her to visit a
family because I was their guest. I say I did not
relish the errand. Nevertheless, it was a stern
duty. It was out of the question that I could continue
standing between the friendship of Miss
Hawke and my cousins, that is, preventing them
from meeting at one or the other's house. Nor
could I be sure of my aunt's opinion on the subject.
She was kind, she was amiable, but she valued her
neighbours' opinion and liked society ; and do you
suppose that I could have gone comfortably to bed
in her house, that I could have sat down to a meal
VOL. i. m

in it, haunted as I must certainly have been by the
misgiving that behind my back my aunt would be
saying to her husband, " Our nephew is a nice
youth ; but I cannot help thinking, dear, that he
would have shown a gentlemanly spirit in leaving
us when he knew that Florence was prohibited
from calling whilst he stayed " ? No : it was my
duty to my relations to "make tracks," as Jonathan
says, just as it was my duty to myself to look out
for lodgings in the neighbourhood. So, lighting a
cigar, I swung out of the grounds into the highway
and the blazing summer sun, and struck out for
Bristol city.

The truth is, though I could very easily have
found the accommodation I wanted in Clifton, I
considered that it would be unwise to bring up in
the immediate neighbourhood of old Hawke's mansion
: it would have been a little too defiant. He
was bound to hear that I had left my uncle and
where I was living ; and though Bristol, as everybody
knows, is within an easy walk of Clifton, yet
the sense of adjacent, and the consternation and
anger it would arouse in him, were not likely to be
so violent in the old chap if he heard I was lodging
in Bristol as if he should be told, " Jack Seymour,
sir ? Oh, he lives round the corner. You may see
his diggings from your daughter's bedroom window,
sir."

And do you ask, my lads, what scheme I had —

what policy ? I am talking about old Hawke's consternation
and anger as if I was afraid of him.
Now I had no policy at all. I was a young fellow
deeply in love, forced by a sense of honour, or
courtesy, or whatever you please, to quit my
uncle's roof, but constrained by my passion for
Florence Hawke to dwell in the neighbourhood.
Some dim hope of making her as much in love
with me as I was with her, and of inducing her
to elope, haunted me. A dim hope it was, vague
and thin, yet it had a kind of lurking life in me too,
and so I confess it. But policy ! Heaven bless
your hearts, I had none. Never was a courtship
begun more aimlessly, never were chances heavier
against a man. Had I had an occupation in
London, all that I am writing would have been
impossible. I should have had to return to my
work, and there would have been an end of this
sentimental spasm. But I had nothing to do ;
it was all the same whether I lived in London or
Bristol. I was twenty-five, an age of immense
resolutions and poetic fancies ; I had two cousins
who goaded me on ; I had met with no particular
hindrance in the young lady herself; above all, I
was deeply, honestly, enthusiastically in love, with
an absolute scorn of Hawke's gold, and with no
other desire, as I call my conscience to witness,
than the possession of my Australian beauty.
And so, mates, you have in a few lines all the

reasons I can offer for walking into Bristol to seek
a lodging.

I found rooms better suited to my purse than
my ambition in a little bouse not far from College
Green, to which neighbourhood I had been directed,
possibly, by the memory of the morning I had spent
with Miss Hawke in the cathedral there. I had
to choose with care as to the cost, for I had my
London lodgings still on my hands, so that the two
rents together might easily mount into the charge
for a big house. The Bristol woman, who was a
gardener's wife, named Mrs. Chump, a person with
a severe eye, dressed in black, agreed to let me have
a sitting-room and bedroom together, with a plain
breakfast, for fifteen shillings a week. This I agreed
to pay, undertaking to shift for myself in my other
meals; and it was settled that I should instal
myself that evening.

As I stood looking about me in the little parlour
the furniture poor, though clean, a few prints of
naval victories on the walls, a circular convex mirror
reposing like a shield upon the mantelpiece, and
causing the observer to recoil as he remarked the
hideous caricature of himself in it — I could not help
wondering whether I was not making a very great
fool of myself in loitering in Bristol instead of
returning to London. The poor bit of a room I
crazed at set me thinking of the spacious and glittering
chambers of Clifton Lodge. I imagined

!Miss Hawke passing along outside in her papa's
fine carriage, and taking a peep at her admirer's
lodgings, and thinking to herself, " This is the sort
of life he 'would bring me to were I to marry him."
Upon my honour, it wanted the spirit of a giant to
sustain such a shock as that reflection gave me.
The idea of her despising me because I had dared
to fall in love with her on no sounder merits than
an income incapable of yielding me better lodgings
than these, was truly awful. And let me tell you,
boys, that I was not the less devoted because I was
capable of thinking that one good look at my apartments
might make her despise me ; for a man maybe
desperately in love with a girl, and yet possess
so sensitive a disposition as never to doubt that it
would take very little to cause her to turn up her
nose at him and back away with a sneer. Perfect
love, they say, casteth out fear, but I reckon you
must first get your love perfect on both sides.

Anyway, such was the mood these lodgings flung
me into, that I am very positive had any friend been
at my elbow and asked me to consider what I was
doing, I should have pulled my hat over my ears
and slept that night in London town. But there
was no friend at hand to usefully direct my passing
mood ; and being left to myself, why, before I had
measured half the distance to my uncle's house,
the feelings which had determined me to stick to
the district were once more bubbling and poppling

in full force in my foolish young heart, and I was
swearing to myself that, come what might, so long
as Florence Hawke gave me a fraction of encouragement
to persevere and hope, I would never lose
sight of her nor cease to believe that I might one
day get her to share my future.

On my way to Clifton I turned into a confectioner's
shop to get a mouthful to eat, and whilst I
was munching a sandwich on top of a high stool,
and glowering through the window, that was filled
with bottles of candy, glass jellies, and such things,
Miss Hawke and her sister drove past ; they swept
by rapidly, yet not so fast but that I could notice
how lovely Miss Florence looked in a brown hat
with the starboard brim looped up. I hopped off
my perch and, sandwich in hand, ran to the door
to follow her with my eyes, but saw nothing but
the back of her parasol, surmounted by the square
large figure of the coachman as the carriage rolled
downhill.

I proceeded on my way, my thoughts full of the
beautiful girl, and asking myself all sorts of questions.
Could she ever endure to surrender all the
luxury her father was accustoming her to for a poor
husband ? Was there the least probability of my
ever getting her to love me ? And would her love
be of such a kind as to induce her to act as one
reads of girls behaving in story-books, and now and
then in real life; as, for instance, when a nobleman's

daughter sacrifices fortune, friends,, and
family for a fiddler ? or when Letitia declines a
settlement and the brother of an earl for a missionary
?

On reaching home and passing along the drive to
the hall door, I caught sight of my uncle sitting at
the open window of his library. He lounged in an
American chair which hoisted his legs up ; a newspaper
was on his knee, and a long pipe in his hand.
I caught a glimpse of my aunt behind him, a mere
outline in the shadow, with a yellow-backed novel
on her lap and her chin upon her bosom. She was
dozing. And the right kind of afternoon it was for
that diversion — an Indian heat in the soft breeze
that kept the trees rustling ; bees crossing a sort
of bass to the clear treble of the birds ; a rich
soothing smell of hay mingled with the scents of
the flowers — just one of those days, indeed, when
the noble form of the tramp may be seen extended
at full length in the wayside dry-ditch, with a clout
over his face to keep off the wasps, and a wisp
under each knee to save the heels of his breeches
a day in which a man who despises ants' nests
and defies sunstroke would select for a snooze in
the middle of a field of tall grass.

Hill, Jack ! " sung out my uncle, spying me,
where have you been, my lad ? Sophie said
something about your going to view the docks, and
that we were not to expect you to lunch."

His shout awoke my aunt. I stepped into the
room through the window, glad to rest myself ; fora
man's legs should be made of cork not to feel like
a bundle of knots after the ascent of those Clifton
hills in the dog-days.

I have been into Bristol," said I, " but not to
look at the docks. Where's Sophie, aunt ? "

She and Amelia have gone to pay some visits,
I believe," answered my aunt.

Not to the Hawkes, Jack," said my uncle,
grinning. " I suppose you know what's happened?"


Yes ; I was with Sophie when Miss Hawke
called."

"She's an honest lass," said my uncle, "to come
with the news plump — not to delay, but to be herewith
it first thing in the morning, so that there
might be no mistake so far as she and we are concerned.
I am sorry you drove her away. I should
like to have had a word with her."

"I don't know that I drove her away, uncle," said
I, much confused. My cousin, of course, had told
all.

"I say, Sophia," called out my uncle, "what
d'ye think of this generation ? What's your calculation
concerning these times ? Fancy youngsters,
not only falling in love, but making love — actually
whipping out with their sentiments after two or
three meetings with the girls. Don't it beat cockfighting?

What would our papas and mammas
have thought of such energy ? I put it all clown
to George Stephenson. Had he left the stagecoach
alone, we'd have been going along at the old
decorous rate of seven or eight miles an hour, and
a long lounge between whiles at the hostelries.
Nowadays the world's in tow of the locomotive;
and we make love, we make money, we are born,
we live, and we die with our steam-gauges indicating
a steam pressure one remove from bursting point."

You see what I feared has taken place, Mr.
Jack," said my aunt, putting a mark in her book
and closing it. " Mr. Hawke has taken offence ;
and, though no doubt we shall remain on bowing
terms with Florence and Emily, our visiting must
be considered at an end."

Well, if I meet Hawke I'll shake hands with
him ; but he'll never get me across his threshold
again," exclaimed my uncle. " The old coxcomb !
think of him prohibiting his daughter from visiting
us. I wish I had him at sea, I'd work his old
iron up."

"I cannot blame him," said my aunt. "It is
exceedingly mortifying so far as we are concerned,
because we are really quite innocent of any intention
to mortify him. But if you will put yourself
in his place, Mr. Jack, and imagine yourself
anxious that your daughter should marry the man
of your own choosing, and then conceive you were

told that during your absence she had been frequently
in the company of a young stranger who
did not disguise that he was in love with her, I am
sure you would wish to terminate the intimacy by
desiring her not to call upon the family whilst the
young man continues in their house as a guest."

I quite agree with you," said I. "I do not
blame Mr. Hawke."

Mind ! I do not excuse his views of marriage,"
she continued. " I consider his anxiety to marry
his child to a man she does not like odious. I am
only trying to justify his behaviour so far as we, or
rather so far as you, are concerned, mortifying as
it is to us."

I was going to ask him to dinner," said my
uncle, laughing. " D'ye remember my saying that
he wouldn't come ? He's done more — he's gone
leagues ahead of my prophecy ! Oh, he's an old
fool ! " and he smoked his pipe vehemently.

"I am extremely vexed," said I, addressing my
aunt, " that I should have been the means of subjecting
you to this annoyance."

It's no annoyance," called out my uncle.
The girls liked Florence, and she's still their
friend. There's nothing to bother over."

"It is perfectly true," I continued, "that I amin
love with Miss Hawke. It would be ridiculous
in me to attempt to conceal what you can all see.
But Mr. Hawke must surely have a great deal of

the Turk as well as the prig in his nature to
forbid her, so to speak, to unveil her face to any
man but the person he wants her to marry. If
she can endure discipline of that kind, she has not
the spirit I want to believe she has."

Just my opinion, Jack — what I said when
Sophie gave us the news," said my uncle.

"He was annoyed by the marked attention you
paid Florence last night," said my aunt.

"Yes; and by her liking it," observed my
uncle.

"If," said my aunt, " your manner, Mr. Jack,
had not been so pronounced — if my husband had
not, as I must say, rather foolishly yielded Miss
Hawke to you by pretending to mistake the
daughter he was asked to give his arm to, there
would have been no grounds for Mr. Hawke's
suspicions, and he would not have said anything
to Florence about her visits here. It is ridiculous
to imagine he would act in this manner to all
young men and the families they might be staying
with. But, unfortunately, he had only to combine
my husband's deliberate mistake with your
behaviour to his daughter, to suspect even more
than was intended. I mean, he would believe your
uncle was playing into your hands, and had asked
you down in the hope of your securing Florence asa
wife."

A good job too ! " said my uncle. "I respect

loyalty in relations, and heartily hope that's his
notion. Why shouldn't I find my brother Tom's
son a pretty heiress for a helpmate ? Isn't he good
enough for Florence Hawke ? "

"That's not the point, Charles," replied my
aunt.

Anyway," continued my uncle, " you may take
it that Florence don't think herself too good for
Jack. What do you think, nephew ? There's a
meaning in her hurrying round here this morning
to pour her yarn about her papa's severity into
Sophie's ear, which I should take to my heart and
cuddle if I were twenty-five years old, single, and
her admirer. And does the old fellow really suppose
he is going the right way to work to make his
daughter do what he wants ? What fools there
are in this world ! "

There is only one way," said I, addressing
my aunt, " of pleasantly ending this unfortunate
affair."

Not by giving Florence up — surely ? " cried my
uncle.

"The condition," I went on, "is that Miss
Hawke is only to cease visiting you whilst I remain
your guest."

"Oh, excuse me, Mr. Jack," cried my aunt,
lifting up her hands ; " there are two sides to
that condition. We shall always be glad to see
Florence ; but after what has passed, none of us —

I speak of my own particular family — could ever
dream of calling on the Hawkes again ! "

At all events," said I, " the condition, so far
as Miss Hawke is concerned, relates to me, and me
only. I will not say I have already trespassed
upon your kindness "

None of that ! " bawled my uncle.

"I mean this," said I; "it is out of the question
that Miss Hawke can be debarred from visiting you
by me. I must therefore leave you."

When ? " said my uncle.

"To-day."

By what train ? "

By no train at all. I have taken lodgings in
Bristol."

My aunt looked startled, my uncle incredulous.

Taken lodgings in Bristol ! " cried he. " When
did you do that ? "

Just now."

He turned to his wife and stared at her. " Well,"
said he, drawing a deep breath, " Jack's a darned
modest fellow, anyhow."

I hope you are not in earnest," said my aunt,
whose kind heart did not at all relish this new
posture in me, although she might consider I was
acting very properly.

"I am indeed," I replied. " I have hired a
couple of rooms, and remove there this evening.
After the kindness you have shown me, it is painful

to be forced to leave you in this fashion. But I
know my duty. Mr. Hawke shall have no further
excuse to deprive his daughter of my cousins'
society. Besides, I must not forget I have already
been here a fortnight, and I never intended to
inflict my society upon you for a longer term."

My uncle sat listening and looking at me with
his head on one side, his right eye half closed, and
his face full of thought. I had fully expected an
explosion of affronted cordiality, of indignant hospitality,
and was therefore not a little surprised to
find him silent and contemplative. It was my
aunt who expostulated, and I must say she tried
hard to induce me to prolong my visit. She said
that whether I went or whether I stayed could not
in the least degree alter matters now. She heartily
hoped there had been nothing in her manner to
cause me to leave. Since I meant to stop in
Bristol, she could not understand why I thought
it necessary to take lodgings when her house was
at my service. To which I replied that I was
exceedingly obliged to her for her kindness, and
that I should part from her with great regret and
much gratitude for the hospitality I had received.

All this while my uncle continued watching me.
He waited until my aunt had given up trying
to coax me, and then said, " Jack, what makes
you stop in Bristol? Why don't you return to
London?"

"Because I like the air here," said I.

Have you given up your town lodgings ? "

"No."

Can you afford to keep two sets of rooms going
on something under two hundred and fifty pounds
a year ? " cried he.

I must endeavour to do so," I replied.

Sophia," he exclaimed, " I suppose you can
guess why Jack sticks to Bristol? "

It is not hard to understand," she answered.

"Well," continued he, talking to her as though
I were not present, "it proves that he is in earnest.
And as that's so, he ought not to miss of our
encouragement and goodwill. He knows Florence
through us ; he can charge us with having shown
him the road into this business ; and we're bound
not to leave him up to his waist in it, more
especially since old Hawke's behaviour has relieved
us of all sense of our duty towards our
neighbour."

Don't trouble about me," said I. " If I am upto
the waist now, I'll scramble out by-and-by somehow,
depend upon it."

My uncle left his chair and walked about the
room, and shortly afterwards my aunt went away,
being signalled by him to do so, as I might judge
by the manner of her going. When the door was
closed upon her, my uncle asked me where I had
taken lodgings. I told him. He then inquired at

what charge I should be, and this question also I
answered.

You have quite made up your mind to leave
us ? " said he.

I have," I replied, " and for the reasons I have
given."

"All right," said he; "we'll say no more on
that head. If you had stayed we should have been
glad. Since you icon stop, you must go. But
what is your scheme ? what do you hope to do
by living in Bristol ? Surely Florence isn't pledged
to you, is she ? Hang me, if I'm not in a mind
to believe anything ! "

"I wish she were," cried I. "Loving her as I
do — as she knows I do, and I say thank God for
that ! — do you think I could go and put a hundred
miles of railway between us ? I may be acting
like a fool — or, what is the same thing, like a very
young man; but whilst Miss Hawke remains single
I must keep near her, in the hope of seeing her, of
meeting her, of talking to her, of winning her love,
and — and "

Bolting with her, d'ye mean ? " asked he.

I made no answer.

"Well," said he, "boil me alive, Jack, if you
don't deserve all the luck you may get. Upon my
word, this business is like one of those romances I
used to read when a lad, where the heroine elopes
with the hero in a thunderstorm, and returns with

her husband after many adventures to receive the
tremulous blessing of her aged father the Duke."

Seeing, however, that this banter was not much
to my taste, though I forced a sickly grin whilst he
talked, he grew serious, said that though he did
not find fault with me for falling in love with
Florence Hawke and clinging to the place in
which she lived, I ought not to forget that my
prospects, so far as she was concerned, were
exceedingly small. For, first, I had to make her
in love with me — and had I substantial reasons for
supposing I could succeed ? Second, in order to
make her in love with me it was necessary that we
should meet ; and how was that to be managed
now that I had left his house and was tabooed by
her father? Third, even if I induced her to meet
me, and succeeded in gaining her love, did I think
she was likely to defy her father by so bold and
reckless a step as an elopement ? And if I did not
suppose her capable of any audacious action of
that kind, what ideas was I flattering myself with ?
He would tell me this : that unless I could get her
to bolt with me I should never win her as a wife ;
and since there was no girl he ever remembered
meeting less likely to elope with a man than
Florence Hawke, he would earnestly advise me —
not, indeed, to relinquish my pursuit ; there was
no harm in my taking lodgings in Bristol ; it was a
healthier place than London ; its temptations were

VOL. I. n

few, and I could save money, but — not to allow
my hopes of success to gather too much weight,
lest disappointment should prove a severer punishment
than I had any suspicion of.

He talked to me, indeed, very much as old
Crusoe talked to young Robinson ; and as with
that famous person, so, had I allowed my uncle's
counsels to influence me, I should have been spared
some adventures very nearly as strange and surprising
as those which befell Defoe's hero — though
to be sure they were not limited to an uninhabited
island, nor did they last, thank goodness, eight
and twenty years.

After he had eased his mind by lecturing me, my
uncle seated himself at a writing-table, and asked
me how long I was likely to use the lodgings I had
taken. I told him I had no notion. " But how
long," says he, " d'ye mean to give yourself either
to win the girl or drop all thoughts of her ? " I
replied that there was no good in asking me questions
of that kind, as it was impossible for me to
answer them.

Do you reckon," says he, " on stopping in
Bristol six months ? "

Well," said I, laughing at his importuning mein
this manner, " I ought pretty well to know
where I am at the end of six months."

On this he pulled open a drawer and took out a
cheque-book ; and after making some calculations

-on a piece of paper, lie filled up a cheque and
handed it to me.

"There, my boy," said he, "put that in your
pocket. I'll pay for six months' lodging."

I looked at the cheque and saw that it was for
fifty pounds. I was taken plump aback by his
kindness, and for some moments could only look
stupidly at the cheque. I then put it on the table,
told him that I had no words to thank him for his
generosity, but that I was not in want of money,
and was very well able to support such expenses as
I was likely to bring upon myself. What followed
came very near to being a quarrel. He called me an
ungrateful young son of a cook. Had I not assured
him that nothing but Mr. Hawke's instructions to
Florence drove me away ? I answered yes. Then,
he wanted to know, what right had I to insult him
fusing to remain his guest on my own terms ?

I don't understand you," said I.

Why, man," cried he, " don't you see that, as
you say you can't be comfortable in this house
owing to Alphonso Hawke's orders to his daughter,
I'm taking lodgings for you in the neighbourhood,
keeping you as a sort of out-door guest ; and that
instead of paying your landlady myself I am
asking you to pa' her for me ? Can't you understand
that, you swab ? "

••Yes," I replied; "but I'm hanged if I'm a
swab ! "

How's that ? — not a swab ! " cried he. " Were
you not, would you be so thick and flabby in your
intellects as to offer to pay a gentleman whose
guest you are for your own keep ? Take that
cheque, man, and let's have no more jaw."

As it was certain that he would have resented
any further refusal of it as an affront, I put the
cheque in my pocket, thanking him as heartily for
his kindness as the temper I was in by being called
a son of a cook and a swab would suffer. However,
as you may suppose, this fit of irritation did
not last long. Indeed, I should have deserved very
much harder names than my uncle had bestowed
on me had I not appreciated the fatherly goodwill
he was showing me. And though I had talked as
if I did not want the money, give me leave to say
that in the depths of my soul I found it a mighty
acceptable gift, and that, trifling as the sum was.
it distinctly heartened me up and made me take a
cheerfully view of the extraordinary waiting-job I
had set myself; so magical is the influence of
vulgar dross upon the mind even when wholly
occupied by sentiment.

I sent my luggage down into Bristol by Cobb
the man-servant, with a message to the landlady
that I would arrive at her house between nine and
ten o'clock. " And, Cobb," said I to the man, "be
good enough to tell her to buy me a bottle of
cognac and put it on the table along with some

soda-water ; " for, to speak the truth, after the
music, the conversation, the company of my relations
and friends, the pleasant evenings I had
passed at my uncle's house, winding up with
cigars, iced drinks, moonlight wanderings among
the trees, and the like, I recoiled from the prospect
of the loneliness of the first night in the little
lodgings, and foresaw the necessity of some provision
against low spirits. If there be any teetotallers
among you, don't be shocked. I do not
know that in all my life, mates, I ever took a
thimbleful more of grog than my head could carry ;
but I'll tell you this — there have been occasions
when a well-timed glass of liquor has served me
better than a clap on the back or a handshake — at
sea, look you, where, after twelve hours of heartbreaking
work with the pumps or up aloft, nothing
but the caulker of rum served out under the break
of the poop by the light of a bull's-eye lamp could
have furnished me with physical force enough to
crawl up the rigging for the twentieth time to help
the others to stow the remnants of what had been
a brand-new close-reefed sail.

When Sophie and Amelia returned from making
their visits, and were told that I had lined lodgings
in Bristol and meant to quit their house for good
that evening, they stared at me as if I had taken
leave of my senses. My aunt, my uncle, and I
were in the drawing-room killing a half-hour before

dinner when the girls came in, and I see them now,
fat, amazed, agitated, as my aunt said, " Sophie,
Amelia, what do you think? Mr. Jack has taken
apartments in Bristol, and is going to them this
evening. In fact, he actually sleeps in them tonight
; so that we lose him with wonderful suddenness,"
says she, nodding fast as she spoke.

A variety of exclamations broke from the girls :
"Apartments in Bristol ! " " Going this evening! "
Sleeps there to-night ! "

Here I cried, " Don't you think I am better thana
circulating library ? What novel can approach
the sensation I cause by my movements ? "

But why are you leaving, Jack? " said Sophie.
"what has happened? " and she ran her eyes over
her papa and mamma, in search, maybe, of the
traces of a recent quarrel ; for the dear creature
had never dreamt for a moment that I was in
earnest when I told her it was my duty to clear
out of the house. My aunt up and spoke ; related
my reason for going, with all the garnishing that a
woman's fluent tongue could furnish to a simple
yarn, and wound up by a fresh and rather wild
appeal to me to reconsider my decision and not be
foolish.

"It's too late — everything's settled; let us have
no more of this, Sophia,' growled my uncle, casting,
nevertheless, a somewhat admiring eye upon his
wife, in whose cheeks the heat of her own volubility

and energy of gesticulation had kindled
a bright colour, and who, what with her well-fitting
dress, long train, fine figure, thick hair
(every scrap of it her own, my uncle once assured
me), good teeth, and shining eyes, looked, I am
bound to say, uncommonly handsome, and twenty
years too young to be the mother of the two
plump, full-grown women who stood listening to
her, lost in wonder and ingenuous excitement. I
really could not help feeling flattered when I
observed the annoyance and disappointment my
cousins showed on discovering that it was all true
that I had taken lodgings and was quitting their
roof in a few hours. They had a sisterly affection
for me ; besides, they might have found it nice to
have a young man in the house, not offensively
ugly as men go, a young fellow to drive with, to
introduce, to be seen with.

I should certainly, if I were you, Jack," said
Sophie, eyeing me (bless her !) almost tearfully,
"be above allowing Mr. Hawke to drive you away
from your relatives, who, you well know, are very
glad to have you with them."

Unless, indeed, Jack is tired of us and wants
to regain the independence which only lodgings
can confer, so men say," observed Amelia, whose
satire was neutralized by her corpulence and
excessively good-natured face as fast as it flowed.

However, my uncle, who was sick of the subject

and small blame to him — begged bis daughters
to say no more about it ; Jack meant to go ; he
knew his own business best ; let him then, in the
name of peace, depart without any more arguments.
So, in compliance with his request, we
changed the conversation and presently went to
dinner, which, in spite of all my efforts after a
cheerful exterior and sprightly observations, was
so dull, flat, and melancholy a meal that anybody
might have supposed we were only lingering over
funeral refreshments until the hearse and the
mourning coaches drove up. Sophie, who was
full of my going, tried several times to start meas
a topic, making sundry feints by vague questions
and observations about the Hawkes ; but she was
regularly parried and dealt with by her papa, who
forced her to retire with confusion ; until at last
there seemed to dawn upon us all the conviction
that any further references to my departure would
be in bad taste. But after dinner, and when my
uncle and I had been sitting together for a short
time, the window being open, I spied Sophie outside
flitting about in the gloom. I was anxious to
have a few words with her before going, so I
stepped on to the lawn.

Sophie instantly began : " When did you take
the apartments, Jack? "

This morning," I replied.

"You told me you were going to look at the

city docks. Why didn't you explain your real
motive ? " said she, reproachfully.

"Because," I answered, " I wanted to make my
arrangements before speaking, so that I might be
able to say it is too late when you all, in your
great kindness, should, as I knew you would, try to
persuade me to remain here."

I am not going to persuade you," said she.
But what good can you do in lodgings ? You
are much less likely to see Florence than were
you to stop with us."

Ay, Sophie ; but will you tell me how long indecency
I ought to go on burdening you with my
company ?"

"As long as ever you like," said she. "You
know it is no burden. We are delighted to have
you."

"Yes; but that does not render it the more
proper in me to encroach on your kindness. Now,
in lodgings I can take my time. I can never be
embarrassed by the feeling that I am trespassing.
Besides, I shall be as comfortable in Bristol as in
London."

But what do you mean to do ? You can't call
on Florence. Do you expect her to call on yotiP "

I am full of expectation," I replied. " And
why ? because I have you as a friend, Sophie. I
can count upon your sympathy ; I feel that I can
rely upon your affection for your foolish young

cousin to help him in his love for your beautiful,
your adorable friend."

I seized her plump hand ; and indeed, boys, it
was just the sort of night for sentimental twaddle
warm, dark, the stars large and luminous, the
atmosphere breathless, the stillness full of fragrance,
with now and again the notes of a clarion-tongued
bird coming out of the deeper darkness
where the trees were — I seized her plurnp hand,
I tell you, pressed and fondled it, and she laughed,
low and gratefully, a laugh full of relish and satisfaction.
Upon my word, when I look back, it does
not gratify my vanity to think that she was not
desperately in love with me : for in my thankfulness
for her sympathy and kindness, and with the
image of Florence always in my mind's eye, I
would talk to her so sentimentally, caress her
hand, breathe in her ear and the like, that there
would have been little to wonder at had she come
to the conclusion that the other girl was only an
excuse, and that it was she I adored.

So far as Amelia and I are concerned, we will
do all that we can to help you, Jack," said she.
■' But understand : we can do nothing unless we
discover that Florence thinks of you, and likes to
hear of you. We'll carry letters and messages
between }^ou as often as may be wanted ; and I,
for one, shall take a particular delight to do what
I can to put 3 T ou in the place young Mr. More-combe

wants to fill, and to thwart Mr. Hawke —
for I quite hate that old man now. But if Florence
is cold about you, if she should not like to be
reminded of you, we shall be unable to help ; for
you know, Jack, that men cannot make love by
proxy, unless they happen to be kings."

"Don't discourage me," said I, "on the very
threshold. I don't ask you to make love to her
for me, but you might, when you meet her "

"I shall meet her often, I hope; and I shall
speak to her as often as we meet, unless she is
with her father," interrupted Sophie.

"I say, no harm could come from your telling
her how devoted I am, how deeply I love her, and
why I have left Clifton, and why I cannot leave
Bristol."

Oh, certainly, Jack ; I can tell her that, and
a great deal more ; and if she is fond of you I
shall not be able to tell her too much, and you
shall know all that she says about you exactly —
good or bad ; so that you will be able to decide
whether to go on lingering in lodgings in Bristol,
or return here, or go back to London."

"And Sophie, my darling," said I, "if you find
that she doesn't give my name the cold shoulder,
but, on the contrary, is pleased to hear you talk
about me, I suppose to a girl possessed of your
cleverness, it would not be quite impossible to
arrange an accidental meeting — you know what I

mean — a chance encounter somewhere, where trees
are plentiful, and people few — eh, Sophie ? "

Oh, that's very easily managed," said she, ina
voice of contempt that was like a dram to my
spirits. " If Florence is willing, there can be no
limit to what may be clone. It will entirely depend
upon her, not upon Amelia's and my good wishes —
so please bear that in mind."

When will you call upon me?"

"To-morrow morning, just to see what sort of
lodgings you have. You will please leave us your
address. And how often will you come to see us ? "

"Very often, depend upon it."

Because," said she, making her manner impressive
by wagging her forefinger at me — the
starlight and the illumination from the lower
windows rendered us plainly visible to each other
"the oftener you come the oftener you are likely
to meet Florence without obliging us to invent any
stratagems. To-morrow morning I shall write to
Florence and tell her that you have left Clifton,
and beg her to acquaint her father with the fact,
that he may withdraw his orders to her to discontinue
her visits here. I shall make my letter
sarcastic, and ask her in a postcript to read it to
Mr. Hawke."

I was about to beg her to do nothing of the
kind, lest the old man should take it as a new
affront, and base further injunctions to his daughter

upon it, when my uncle, coming to the window,
bawled out : " Are there burglars yonder ? "Who's
that mum, mum, mumming there ? Are the bees
still abroad ? or has a sick cow strayed into these
grounds to die? Sophie, is that you?" She
answered "Yes." "Without any head-gear on?
D'ye know the dew falls like a thunder-squall?
Come in, come in, and bring the melancholy Jackanapes
with you."

This ended our confab, and half an hour afterwards
I stood in the hall shaking hands all round,
and saying good-night and good-bye.

"You understand, Jack," said my uncle, "that
it's only a shift of premises. You're still our
guest."

A knife and fork will always be laid for you,"
said my aunt : " and your bedroom kept ready,
so that we shall require no notice of your return."

You are very foolish to go, Jack ; but there's
no reasoning with men," exclaimed Amelia ; and
Sophie, as she squeezed my hand, mumbled in a
whisper that I might count upon her.

"God bless you all! and thanks," said I: and
lurching through the hall-door I gained the highway
and stepped out for my lodgings in Bristol.

Chapter IX.

MY BRISTOL LODGINGS.

The first night in new lodgings when you are alone
and in a strange town does not always make a
pleasant memory. Nothing fits : the armchair is
too big or too little ; the bed-mattrass is too hard
or too soft ; the washstand is in the wrong corner ;
the toilet tablet-table is in the road of the window ;
and the inhospitality of things new to your habits
is oppressive. In London the feeling that my
home was a lodging had been sunk by custom ;
but the sense came up in me very strong when
I reached my Bristol apartments, and stood in
the bit of a sitting-room, contrasting it with my
uncle's home, and gazing vacantly at the table,
on which were a bottle of brandy, a bottle of soda-water,
and a corkscrew, upon a cheap brand-new
tray. I heard a man's voice rumbling under my
feet, and there was a smell of coarse tobacco
about; and when I cast my eyes around, and
beheld no books, no intellectual solace of any

kind outside the prints, which were speedily to
be exhausted, whether as diversions or as moral
instructors, I felt very lonely indeed, and sat me
down in the stiff-backed, hair-covered armchair
that stood nakedly confronting the frigid black
grate and its bleak furniture of fender and irons,
with a misgiving upon me that I was acting very
much like a donkey.

Mrs. Chump broke in upon my musings by
asking at what time I wanted to be called in the
morning, and what I wished for breakfast. Called
in the morning ! what was there to get up for ?
and wish for breakfast ? there was not a phantom
of a wish of the kind in me. But I was bound
to give her an answer, so I muttered something
about eggs and bacon and half-past eight, and
then pulled the cork out of the brandy-bottle and
filled a pipe.

However, I cheered thyself up after a bit by
considering that first of all I had acted as any
gentleman would in relieving my uncle's house
of a guest that had set two families by the ears ;
next, that when Florence Hawke came to hear
that I could not tear myself away from the neighbourhood,
and was living lonesomely in lodgings
for her sake, she would find a good deal in the news
to persuade her that I was very honestly in love.
And then I reflected that I had two most emotional
champions and allies in my cousins, in whose

loyalty and love of romance I might have the
utmost confidence ; and I also consoled myself
by thinking that, though I might have prolonged
my stay at my uncle's without risk of being
thought an intruder, the time must certainly
arrive when my sense of propriety would oblige
me to leave his house ; so that, since I was determined
to keep near Florence, I had only anticipated
my departure by a week or two by coming
to these lodgings at once.

I often recall myself sitting in that little room,
smoking my pipe, my mind labouring under a
crowd of thought like a hard-pressed ship in a
seaway. Nathaniel Hawthorne has a story in
one of his books of a man's conscience standing
behind him and giving him a dig with a sharp
knife from time to time as it holds up pictures
of his early life to his face. I, who write this
in middle age, stand in fancy alongside that armchair,
and look at my foolish young self as I
sit with my legs crossed, blowing out smoke, sometimes
grinning over a hope, sometimes scowling-over
a misgiving, and very often hauling out Miss
Florence's portrait from a side pocket to gaze at
it and kiss it. Even then I thought the adventure
I had embarked on a queer one, with little meaning
in it, and yet not destitute of a kind of nebula of
an idea either. But what must I think now,
looking as I do, so to speak, through the other

end of the telescope, and recall the amazing experiences
to which my sojourn at Clifton and
Bristol was merely a tender, uneventful introduction
? Would I go through it again ? Can
I conceive of any woman so divine, so stately,
so majestical, so lily-white, so bland, so all the
rest of it, as to seduce me into putting to sea
for her lovely and noble sake, and getting shipwrecked
? What say ye, mariners ? Is there any
woman worth being shipwrecked for — not in a
commercial sense, but literally, amid a storm of
wind, in the trough of a raging ocean, when the
lightning makes a hell of the sooty sky, and the
yelling of the hurricane mingling with the cries
of the drowning sounds like the voices of fiends
triumphing over the agonies of the damned ?
Answer that, my lively hearties, if so be that you
know what it is to be shipwrecked.

I turned in shortly before twelve, and reckoned
upon a tossing night : instead of which I fell sound
asleep, and never opened my eyes until Mrs.
Chump rapped upon the door. My lodgings were
in a street, and when I rose to shave myself, the
look-out over the way formed a very depressing
contrast with the bright fresh scene of trees and
flowers I had every morning gazed at from my
bedroom in my uncle's house. Nevertheless, I
felt on the whole pretty lively, and was in a
temper to take a cheerfully view of my conduct

vol. r. o

and resolutions than my spirits had allowed me on
the previous night. The street gave me but a
narrow horizon ; but the sky was to be seen overhead,
and my mood perhaps came to me from
the radiancy and life of it ; for there was a strong
breeze of wind blowing, and clouds, like bursts of
cannon-smoke, white and gleaming, were sailing
across the blue in stately processions, and the
dancing sunshine seemed like a kind of laughter
upon the face of the world.

When I arrived at the little parlour under my
bedroom I found breakfast ready ; and though it
was but a modest repast, yet what cooking there
was in it was up to the hammer, the coffee excellent,
everything clean, a nosegay in a tumbler in the
middle of the table, and a local newspaper damp
and flat lying upon the napkin. Trifling as these
matters are to mention, I found them reconciling,
and when I had breakfasted and stowed myself
away in the armchair — there was but one — with a
pipe in my mouth and the newspaper in my hand,
I could not help reflecting that, even if I viewed
this freak as no more than a holiday jaunt, I could
not have chosen a brighter scene than Bristol, with
its docks and its picturesque old houses, and the
river winding through the streets, and the noble
Clifton scenery close at hand.

Sophie had promised to call, and I remained in
my lodgings the whole morning for fear of missing

her. A mighty long morning it was : hut an end
was made of it shortly before noon by a hearty
knock on the door, and my cousins were announced
by the landlady. They looked around them,
evidently amused by the size of the room; and
I confess that when they were seated it seemed
to have shrunk to half its real dimensions, owing,
no doubt, to its being pretty well filled by the two
fat girls and myself. They asked me how I had slept,
whether I was likely to be comfortable, whether
my love for Florence was going to be proof against
the loneliness of the lodger's life, and so forth.
When I say they, I mean it was chiefly Amelia who
asked these questions, for there was often a little
touch of banter in her as if she never thoroughly
gave me credit for earnestness ; whilst Sophie, on
the other hand, would always return sigh for sigh
and echo groan for groan. They had no news to
give me. They had merely called to see what sort
of apartments I had taken, and to know if I would
dine with them that evening.

"No," said I ; "do not tempt me. I want to
inure myself to solitude. I want to accustom
myself to my own company ; unless, indeed "

Sophie understood me. "No," said she, "you
will not see Florence."

i: Have you written to her ? "

"Yes," she answered, putting her hand in her
pocket ; "and here is her reply." She gave mea

little cocked-hat note, the counterpart of the one
I possessed. It was dated 10.30, proving that
Sophie had written very early indeed, and that
Miss Hawke had replied immediately. The little
missive trembled in my hand as I read :

"Dearest Sophie,

Papa is out, so I must wait to tell him
that your cousin Jack has left you. I shall not read
your letter to him, as there is really no reason
why he should know that your cousin has taken
apartments in Bristol. The whole thing is quite
absurd enough as it is. I hope to see you soon ;
and I trust, dear, this foolish anxiety about me
on papa's part will not prevent you from calling
as on my side, I certainly do not intend to let it
estrange us. I am very much ashamed that I
should have been the cause of your cousin leaving
you. I know how greatly you enjoyed his company ;
but though I am the cause, I feel that I am innocently
so, and let me assure you that nothing ever surprised
and vexed me more than papa's desire that
I should not visit you whilst your cousin remained
at your house.

Yours sincerely,

"Florence Hawke.

Pes. I suppose you will often see your
cousin ? Poor fellow ! I hope he has found nice
apartments."

There's a deal in that note about you, isn't
there, Jack?" said Amelia, after I had read it
twice through, and was beginning for the third
time.

There is, indeed," I exclaimed, thrilled by
the references. '* But what does she mean by
saying that the whole thing is quite absurd
enough ? "

That her papa's conduct is absurd," answered
Sophie.

Are you sure ? " said I, doubtfully, looking at
the sentence in the letter. "You don't think she
means mine, do you ? "

They were both so confident on that head that
they vanquished my misgivings. I asked Sophie
if she meant to call at Clifton Lodge. She said
that if her mamma did not object she would call —
that is, of course, if Mr. Hawke allowed Florence to
visit them.

11 We don't mean to say, Jack," observed Amelia,
'•'that we should call if you were not concerned in
our remaining friendly with Florence, because we
all consider Mr. Hawke has behaved most insultingly
to us. But Sophie and I have talked things
over as we came here, and we have agreed, if
mamma does not object, to occasionally visit
Florence, so as to enable her to call upon us."

I am afraid your mamma will object," said I.
She lias said none of you could ever dream of

calling upon the Hawkes again after what has
happened."

She may change her mind ; and if so," said
Sophie, " the arrangement should suit you very
well."

"Why, yes," said I, "if I am to meet Miss
Hawke at your house. But will she call, knowing
her papa's objections? And will not old Hawke
stop his daughter's visits when he hears that I
am in Bristol ? "

You are really a very hard person to help," cried
Amelia. " Here is a pile of might-be's ! If all that
you fear is going to take place, we must salaam and
give your love-troubles up — for what can we do ? "

On this I mentally cursed myself for a fool — for
was not I one, to go and invent difficulties, and
damp the romantic fancies which rendered these
cousins my warm allies ? Looking humbly at them
both, I begged their forgiveness, and promised never
to express any more apprehensions nor to entertain
any further forebodings, but to take things as they
came, and if the wind drew ahead on one tack, to
shift the helm and try the other tack.

There's nothing else to be done, Jack," said
Sophie; "for if mamma won't, and Florence won't,
and Mr. Hawke won't — if it is to be all won't "

Then of course it must be won't with me,"
said I, finishing her speech for her.

They stayed a while chatting, and before leaving

asked me again to dine with them. I should have
been well pleased to accept the invitation, but considered
I would stand a better chance of preserving
their esteem and affection if, now that I was out of
the house, I did not dose them too often with my
company ; and besides, if this courtship of mine
was going to involve much waiting — whether it
came to anything or not — should I not be dining
at their house often enough"? "If ever you want
the phaeton, or feel disposed for a canter, you have
only to send a message, Jack," said Sophie, and,
then, giving me a tender sentimental shake of the
hand, my cousins went away.

I killed the rest of the da 7 in wandering about
Bristol, hanging about the docks, where the vessels
and the hands at work upon them stirred up scores
of old memories, and I also expended a few shillings
in the purchase of a small collection of cheap
novels. My uncle had put my name down at his
club, but unfortunately Mr. Hawke was a member
of it, and the fear of meeting him was quite enough
to keep me clear of those premises. It immeasurably
consoled me, however, to reflect that Florence
Hawke knew that I was living in Bristol. Why,
even if she had no feeling for me, outside liking meas
an easy-going, light-hearted young fellow, she
was bound to take an interest in a man who had
surrendered his pleasure and comfort as his uncle's
guest, because of her papa's fears and priggish

jealousy, and had gone to dwell in a twopenny
lodging that he might be near her and able to
catch a glimpse of her now and again. It is true
that the thought of young Morecombe living in her
house, enjoying her incomparable society, and being
backed in his assaults upon her heart by the
battery of her father's wishes, was excessively distracting
to a lover so utterly helpless as I was ; but
I consoled myself by reflecting that she had spoken
of the young fellow as a fool, that she had never
expressed an atom of regard for him, and that my
cousins were fully of opinion that Mr. Hawke would
never induce his daughter to accept the man as a
husband.

But taking it all round, I give you my word it
was anything but the jolliest time of my life. Often
would I pull out Florence's likeness and look at it,
and ask myself why fate had ordained that she
should cross my path, instead of allowing me to
remain the gay-hearted youth who was kicking his
heels, up to a recent period, about the West End of
London, and turning in night after night without a
trouble to ruffle the serenity of his simple mind?
During the evening that followed my cousins' visit,
I very well remember sticking Miss Florence's
photograph on the top of a hot water-jug, the open
lid of which supported its back and enabled me to
view it with my hands in my pockets ; and there it
stood up before me like a fetish — but oh, shipmates,

the beautiful drooping profile ! the lovely
swell of the figure ! the rich, tender speaking eye
downwards bent, hollowed phantasm of the exquisite
reality as it was ! — whilst I soliloquized as
though I were making my devotions before the
goddess ; and I well recollect wondering whether it
would not be better for me to end this business
by packing my portmanteau and going away to
London next morning, instead of languishing in
these lodgings, dependent upon my cousins for the
privilege of even seeing Miss Florence, and of
eventually, maybe, sinking into a species of idiocy,
only to be rewarded in the end by receiving a piece
of Mrs. Florence Morecombe's wedding-cake to put
under my pillow. My love, thought I, is but a
milk-tooth now, a small pull will whip it away ;
but if I let it grow, it will become a lumping big
grinder with several enormous fangs, so that the
very devil himself might fail to haul it out ; and if
it should decay — heavens ! what agony must I
suffer ! What ought I to do then ? But guess
what sort of common sense I had in those days
when you notice that I tried to reason, with
Florence's lovely face mounted on a hot-water jug
plump under my nose ! How was it possible forme
to form any safe resolution, to act like a man
who was determined to be master of himself, whilst
the image of the sweetest of faces and figures —
the portrait of the woman I adored — stood up in

front of me to paralyze every little thumping
struggle my heart gave to regain its liberty ? No,
thought I, snatching up the beautiful picture and
kissing it, it's too late — I'm in for it — I'll keep all
fast ! And pocketing the photograph, I drank to
my own health, lighted a pipe, and fell to one of
the half-dozen novels I had purchased.

Chapter X.

MY UNCLE DAMPS MY HOPES.

Nothing particular, as shipmasters say when they
depose to disasters, happened for the next three
days. I recollect calling at my uncle's house and
finding everybody out, also killing a morning by a
trip to Portishead, attending a morning service in
the cathedral, in the vague, utterly idle hope of
seeing Miss Hawke there. Had I been in Bristol
merely as a lounging visitor, with an unoccupied
mind on the look-out for amusement, I should
have immensely enjoyed the old city; for it is
as picturesque a place as a man need wish to see,
full of gable-roofed houses belonging to ancient
times, and quaint side streets ; and, above all, it
gives you the interests of a big port close to your
door in the shape of ships, which come up into
the heart of the town and mingle their spars and
flags with chimney-pots and steeples.

But my mind never was unoccupied. I wandered
about like a dog that has lost its master, staring at

people and into carriages in hopes of catching a
glimpse of Florence Hawke, with my mind so full
of plans and plots, of hopes and fears, of determination
and irresolution, that had Bristol been built
by the slaves of Aladdin in a night, I should have
mooned and gaped along the pavements without
giving the least attention to the miracle.

On the afternoon of the third day I returned to
my lodgings, having been down to Portishead to
have a look at the old ocean, and found my little
parlour fogged with tobacco smoke, in the midst of
which sat my uncle blowing clouds from a large
meerschaum. This was his first visit, and when
I entered, instead of saying "How do you do ?" he
exclaimed, " Shut the door behind ye, Jack. I
don't want your landlady to hear me laugh. Man !
you must be deeply in love to put up with this.
Dash my buttons ! you don't call this a room, do
ye ? Why, if Florence was to catch sight of this
match-box, darned if I don't think she'd be giving
you her hand and heart slick away off out of mercy
so as to get you out of this butter-box of a hole."

Small as it is," said I, " I'm glad to see you in
it. How are you ? " and we shook hands, after
which I opened the window.

And what headway are you making ? " said he.

"I'm very comfortable here," I replied. " Not
equal to your palace, but good enough for a spell —
clean, quiet, respectable, and cheap."

I don't mean that," said he. " What are you
doing in this love business? Are you forging ahead
at all ? "

I can't say I am," I replied, feeling exceedingly
foolish.

Have you met Florence since you left us ? " he
asked.

Not once."

Have you seen her then ? "

"No."

"Neither met her nor seen her!" he cried.
What are you doing then — writing to her ? "

I shook my head ; these questions were abominably
mortifying, and made me feel horribly absurd.

"Then," said he, "in the name of Jerusalem,
what are you stopping in this rat-hole for ? "
looking around him. " Has any one invented a
new method of making love since I was young, by
which two people can grow desperately attached by
never seeing, by never meeting, by never hearing,
and never writing to each other ? If not, then
come back to my house, Jack : don't go and ruin
the reputation of the Seymours for intellect by
hiding in a snail-shell and pretending that you are
courting."

My dignity was touched. "Pardon me," I
observed somewhat loftily, " you knew the policy I
intended to adopt. I am content to wait. Mr.
Alphonso Hawke is not an apple-tree that I can

turn to and shake him until the particular fruit I
want falls at my feet. His daughter knows I love
her : she knows I am living in Bristol for her sake."

"But what's that got to do with it?" he exclaimed.
" If you never meet her, if you never see
her, if you don't correspond with her, what's to
come of your lodging in this oyster-shell ? "

I am in my cousins' hands," said I. " Florence
Hawke and I will meet, depend upon it ; and when
we do, you bet that Jack Seymour hasn't withdrawn
into this oyster-shell, as you call it, for nothing."

"Look here, my lad," said he, speaking very
kindly, and with a touch of apology in his voice that
was almost alarming, " I don't want to discourage
you — you know that."

"Yes, I know that."

"There's no reason," he continued, "why you
shouldn't win this girl — though, mind, you'll do
nothing by sitting down in this snuff-box of a chamber
with a pipe in your mouth, or taking a turn
along a few fathoms of pavement. D'ye remember
that I lectured you once on sincerity? Well, it
eased my mind, and ever since I've somehow felt
that you're to be trusted : my notion being that if
Florence chooses to fancy you, she'll find you an
A 1 husband, built above the usual requirements,
copper-fastened, and something fit to handle.
Money she oughtn't to want ; and if her father cuts
her off, you must go to work and double your income,

and that'll do for the present. So you see,
my boy, I don't want to discourage you."

But what do you want to say, then ? " said I,
wondering what he was driving at now that he had
made all these admissions.

Why," said he, looking a bit nervous, " you just
now spoke of your cousins helping you. Well, I
have no objection. I have my own theories of life,
and do not know why I should be expected to applaud
Mr. Hawke's views and support them. You're
a gentleman — poor, but not a beggar. You have
something to offer Florence, even if she came to
you without a stiver. Isn't that so ? "

I have two hundred and fifty a year," said I.

"Yes," he exclaimed, " and youth also, which is
always worth money. If you were a dissolute fellow,
if you were a twopenny rascal, if I thought you
weren't worth the love of such a girl as Florence, if
I reckoned you'd like to get her, not for her heart's
sake, but for what she'd bring along with her, does
any man who knows me suppose I would lift a
finger to help you to foul old Hawke by running
athwart his hawse ? My boy, if I lifted anything it
would be my foot, to give ye a hoist out of the way
of the charming girl. Mind, Jack, I don't want to
say anything to discourage you."

•' I'm following you anxiously," said I.

The fact is, nephew, your aunt and I are not
agreed. She is for respecting Mr. Hawke's wishes

to the extent of your doing nothing to bother him.
She is very fond of you, Jack — ay, proud of you,
m y boy, as a relative; but she doesn't think it
would be consistent with our dignity for your
cousins to meddle in a business that's already
caused old Hawke to insult us."

"I do not blame her," said I.

It is not my fault," continued he, growing more
and more apologetic, and looking very sorry. " I
it was who told you you might count upon your
cousins. But my wife objects, and she must have
her way. She has consented to their calling on
Florence, but on the distinct understanding that
they take no messages, no notes."

"You may depend upon it," said I speaking
coolly, but feeling frightfully chagrined, " that her
requests are law to me. I beg that you will give
her my love, and assure her that the same resolution
that forced me from her hospitable house will
enable me most strictly to respect her wishes."

"For God's sake!" he burst out, "don't be
too polite, Jack, or you'll make me think you're
satirical."

No, no," said I, " I am too fond of you all to
try my clumsy fist at satire."

I know you are, and we're equally fond of you :
and what I want to know now is, whether, seeing
that it wouldn't be proper for your cousins to help
you in this job, it is worth your while to go on

bothering yourself over it. Act sensibly, man !
Give up these lodgings, come to my house, and
when you've had enough of us, return to London."

"A thousand thanks for your kindness, uncle;
but — what ! " I shouted, " surrender my love, my
hopes, my chances, by living in a house on the under r
standing that I must never meet Florence Hawke,
or, if I meet her, that I must never speak to her or
take notice of her lest I should excite her father's
suspicions of your neighbourliness, and lead him to
suppose you are keeping me with you for the
purpose of annoying him ! My dear uncle, you once
called me a swab ; do you really think I am one? "

He laughed heartily, and said, "Well, well; I see
how it is. One must needs go when the devil
drives. How you'll manage to get along I don't
know ; but I dare say in its time love has triumphed
over bigger difficulties than any you're likely to
encounter. Indeed, I once knew a man who, to
come at the object of his affections, had not only to
fight his own and the lady's family — the two families
combined mustering no less than two-and-twenty
souls— but the family of the rector of the parish,
the family of a justice of the peace, and the relations
of a medical widower. He beat 'em all. His
triumph was wonderful ! There was no bolting, no
scudding away : he married the girl calmly and
legitimately ; and you may make an Irish hash of
me, Jack, if the wedding guests didn't consist of all

VOL. I. P

the people lie had, in a moral sense, knocked on the
head, and over whose bodies he had crawled on his
road to the altar. Take that fable to heart," said
he, " and moralize it."

My conversation with him, however, had not left
me in a very moralizing mood. He lingered a
little, talking and laughing — in truth he saw that
he had made me despondent, and wanted to leave
me in better spirits — and tried to persuade me to
dine with him that day. I declined, for I was not at
all in the humour to enjoy his hospitality, but
promised to spend the following afternoon and evening
at his house ; and this being settled he went
away, urging me with his last words to quit those
lodgings, and never to suffer any woman in this
wide world to make me unhappy whilst I remained
a bachelor, as it was time enough for a man to
begin to feel miserable when he was married.

I had counted so fully upon the good offices of
my cousins, upon their willingness to convey letters
and messages, upon their womanly capacity of
interesting Florence in me by their talk of my
devotion, my admiration of her, and the like, that
upon my word, mates, the thought that their help
was lost to me affected me to such a degree, that
hang me if I am not ashamed to think of it. What
was I to do now ? No doubt 1 had the sympathy
of my relations, but their neutrality was almost as
bad as active hostility, so that practically I stood

alone, I was without a friend, without any means
of communicating with my darling, unless indeed I
boldly wrote to her at her papa's house, which
might have been a resolution very easy to carry
out, but not for a moment to be entertained if I
valued my self-respect and hers ; and I was therefore
deprived of all chance of keeping myself alive
in her memory. Under such circumstances there
is probably not one man in a hundred who would
not have withdrawn whilst his wounds were still
small. But my nature was an obstinate one, and
sanguine too, a compound not often met. Besides
this, I loved the girl from the very bottom of my
heart with a boyish intensity I like to remember.
I also valued my relatives' opinion, and guessed
if I turned tail at this juncture they would ever
after look upon me as a very insincere poor
creature. These and a hundred such thoughts
determined me to " hold on all," as we say at seato
put my faith in chance, to be patient — in
short, to play with Dame Fortune the old nursery
game of shutting my eyes and opening my mouth
and seeing what I should get. It might be a
lollipop, or it might be a dose of jalap, but whatever
it was., I would swallow it.

Yet for all that, the worry, the disappointment,
the real distress of mind I was in, coupled with the
heat of the weather and the smallness of the room
about which I kept lurching for some time after my

uncle had gone away, with my head full of simmering
fancies, threw me into a kind of fever ; and
then there came into me such a desperate, crazy
longing to see Florence Hawke — to catch even the
merest glimpse of her — that without any kind of
plan in my mind I pulled on my hat and set sail
in the direction of Clifton. I did not, however,
know how tired my ramble about Portishead had
made me until I was mounting the steep road
which would carry me to Clifton Lodge, and compelled
by fatigue to walk slowly, I had plenty of
leisure for reflection. What did I mean to do?
To pull the bell, and ask if Miss Hawke was at
home? Stand at the gate and peep through the
bars ? Was I anxious to give old Hawke an opportunity
of pronouncing an opinion on me through
the medium of his flunkeys ?

In truth, when I began to ask myself where I
was bound to, and what I hoped to do when I got
there, I found an irresolution creeping upon me.
When a man is really beloved of his sweetheart
there are few things he can do which are likely to
make him ridiculous in her eyes — at least, that's
my notion, and of course, I may be wrong ; but I
fancy no one will doubt that until a fellow has won
a girl's heart he runs many risks of being laughed
at by her. Should Miss Hawke catch me hanging
about the road in front of her house and peeping at
the windows like a burglar settling his little plans,

would she be amused ? She might, it is true, be
affected by this instance of my devotion, or she
might think I was acting very ridiculously. An
alternative of this kind is a very serious thing.
These were my thoughts as I marched toilsomely
up that hill, and these were the considerations
which caused me after a while to stop, and then
march down again.

No one who has been in love but will sympathize
with the feelings which mastered me at this period,
and follow with emotion the various postures of
mind into which my passion forced me.

Chapter XL

I POUR OUT MY SOUL.

What sort of man was Mr. Reginald Morecoinbe ?
Was he short or tall ? Good-looking or plain ? A
real fool or with as much sense as most youths
have? That he wore his hair parted down the
middle, that he dressed himself in stick-up collars
(no great vice), that he used an eye-glass, and talked
of blood with the complacency of a gentleman
whose private conviction is that people of humble
extraction wander through life with their veins
filled up with water, I had heard ; but these points
were vague enough. I had never seen him, which
was not curious considering that he had been laid
up with a sprained ankle pretty nearly ever since
his arrival at Clifton ; but not the less was my
curiosity exceedingly keen, so that next to Miss
Hawke the person I was most anxious to have a
good look at was the youth her father wanted her
to marry.

My mind was full of speculations about this man

as next morning I talked to Clifton to spend the
day with my relatives; and it was therefore a coincidence
in its way that I had not been walking
ten minutes when I spied Mr. Hawke's carriage
standing opposite a bookseller's shop. The sight
of the men's livery, which I had good reason to
remember, fluttered me exceedingly ; but I had to
come abreast of the vehicle before I could see who
was in it, and as I did so Mr. Hawke came out of
the shop and said something to the young fellow
who was sitting in the carriage. The old chap did
not see me. I walked hurriedly by, taking but a
short peep at the young man, who of course would
be no other than Mr. Morecombe. That peep,
sharp and brief as it was, did not make me feel
very happy, for I am bound to say that Mr. More-combe
was a decidedly good-looking man, apparently
about eight and twenty, with a large tawny
moustache and a well-shaped nose. There was a
glass in his eye, and he wore the stick-ups my
uncle had jeered at. He was dressed in a suit of
tweed, with yellow gloves, plenty of shirt-sleeve.
and a white deer-stalking hat. Yet there was
something mighty affected, I thought, in his pose
as he leaned back with a cigarette between his
fingers.

I walked quickly past, as I have said, never
troubling myself to look behind ; but let me
repeat, mates, the sight of that man made me feel

uncomfortable. He was certainly not the sort of
individual I had fancied him. I had figured a
somewhat idiotic person, smooth-faced, a sort of
compromise between man and woman, with the
assurance of the one and the vanity of the other.
Instead of which, the villain had a masculine
appearance, was of my height, as I reckoned by
his body as he sat in the carriage, unless his legs
were short (which I hoped), and was not without
breadth of shoulders. I had noticed with a spasm
of jealousy and wrath the polite, exceedingly
gracious manner with which old Hawke had smiled
on the youth as he 'came out of the shop.

Mr. Morecombe, I thought as I stepped out,
walking fast in my abstraction, is good-looking, is
gentlemanly-looking, he is well connected, his wife
will be Lady Morecombe, he may not be well off,
but he cannot be poorer than I. Suppose he is the
fool my relatives — ay, and Florence Hawke — call
him ; suppose he talks nonsense about blood ; suppose
he is a puppy by nature and the meanest of
creatures in intellect — whoever he marries will
some day be " her ladyship " ; he has a pretty
figure for a carriage, or a saddle, or a drawing-room,
and he is no doubt capable of running very
glibly over a whole catalogue of titled aunts and
uncles and cousins. What more does pompous old
Hawke want? What chance should I stand, who am
little better than a shell-back, whose father was a

lawyer, who have no pretensions to Mr. Reginald
Morecornbe's elegant military style, his beautiful
moustache, his small hands, and general noble
ball-room appearance ?

I arrived at my uncle's house in a very dejected,
uncomfortable mood, partly induced by the view I
had obtained of Mr. Morecombe, and partly by
thoughts about my aunt, who I considered was
acting very unkindly in prohibiting her daughters
from lending me a hand in my courtship. As I
entered the gate I plumped up against Sophie, who
was unmistakably hanging about to intercept me.

Jack," she said, as I stopped to shake hands
with her, " I know you wonder why neither Amelia
nor I have called upon you."

"Not at all," I answered. "Your papa was
with me yesterday, and he explained how matters
stand. Why should you call ? You have nothing
to tell me."

"It is not my fault," cried the amiable girl,
speaking with a distressed face; "I had made all
arrangements to visit Florence and have her here,
as you know — purely for your sake, but mamma
strictly prohibited Amelia and me from mentioning
your name to Florence, or acting in any way as a
go-between. What was I to do ? I am obliged to
obey mamma."

Of course, of course," said I. " Don't let this
trouble you. I fully appreciate all your good

intentions. It's a blow, I admit, to be deprived
of your help. But until I positively hear that
Florence Hawke has accepted young Moreconibe —
who, by the way, I have just sighted for the first
time — or until I know that the love I offered heron
that seat there," said I, pointing, "is objectionable
to her, I'll go on hoping, Sophie, I'll go on
waiting; for who knows what may happen?" and
so saying I put my hand through her arm, and in
this friendly manner we walked to the house.

My aunt welcomed me very kindly, and I took
care to put so much warmth into my manner that
it was impossible she could suspect how annoyed
I was with her for allowing her regard for old
Hawke's opinion to interfere with niy chance of
wooing his lovely daughter. I had hoped that no
reference to the business in any shape or form
would have been made, and had it rested with my
aunt and cousins nothing probably would have
been said; but my uncle, who spoke whatever
came into his head, tumbled us all into the topic
at lunch by asking Amelia if she had seen Miss
Hawke lately. My aunt tried to catch his eye
to make a face at him, but he would not look.

I saw her yesterday, but only to nod to,"
replied Amelia.

Does anybody know how young Morecombe is
getting on?" continued my uncle; "how's his
sprain — can any one tell ? "

It should be well by this time," said Sophie
contemptuously.

"I'm not so sure," exclaimed my uncle; "a
sprain is a bad job. I have known a man to be
laid up for twelve weeks with a twisted ankle."

I saw him in the Hawkes' carriage as I came
here," said I ; " his sufferings did not seem
acute."

Was that the first time you had ever seen
him ? " asked my aunt. I replied that it was.

What d'ye think of him ? " said my uncle.

That he's a decidedly good-looking fellow, with
a very gentlemanly appearance." Sophie seemed
to regard me with astonishment. My aunt said,
"It is very honourable in you to praise him, Mr.

Jack. He is certainly handsome to look at "

"From a distance," interrupted Sophie. "But,"
continued my aunt, "when you get to know him
and converse with him his looks seem to fade
away. I am afraid it is because he has very little
intellect."

"The fact is, Jack," said my uncle, "his beauty
founders in his imbecility. The moment you stir
up his mind his appearance gets swamped and
sinks. Yet I like to hear ye admire the man ; ita
nautical touch that pleases me."

Only Mr. Hawke could endure so silly a personas
a guest," observed Amelia.

"Do not let us talk of Mr. Hawke, dear," said

ray aunt. "Sophie, pass the sherry to your cousin,
my love."

Before we shelve old Hawke, Sophie," said my
uncle in the manner of one who rises after a dinner to
make a speech, " I want to say a word. I told Jack
yesterday why you object to the girls meddling in
his love affairs ; he quite understands, as I explained
to you, my dear. It is not because you like old
Hawke, nor because you approve of his wish to
marry his child to an ass, nor because you would
not be delighted to see Florence Hawke become Mrs.
jack Seymour; but because you think it's right
that people should do as they'd like to be done by
by which I mean that if you were carrying out
some marriage speculation for Sophie there, you
would not be pleased if Hawke's nephew (supposing
he had one) stepped in, backed by Hawke and his
family, to stop or thwart or bother you in your
little game. There need be no feeling on the
subject. Jack is a young man of sense ; aren't you,
Jack?"

All this was distressing enough to me, and I could
only blush and try to smile and look amiable. My
aunt, dragged into a topic she had not wanted to
meddle with, was forced to speak.

"lam sorry," said she to me, " to have felt
obliged — and I really have felt obliged — to say ordo
anything that — that you might think not kind.
My husband knows, and so do Sophie and Amelia,

that I would be very glad to see you the accepted
lover of Florence Hawke. Do not imagine I
wonder at your admiration of her or that you
should be in love, for I greatly admire Florence
myself and have a warm affection for her. But it
was out of the question that Mr. Hawke should be
allowed to suppose that we were abetting you
against his wishes ; nor, in my opinion, would m
daughters be acting with propriety in calling at
Clifton Lodge after what has passed, and, under
the mask of visiting &s friends, helping you in your

your "

Affair dee cover — put it politely," said my
uncle.

"And so virtually acting as the enemies of Mr.
Hawke's," concluded my aunt, who was exceedingly
nervous and extended her hand to Sophie for the
fan the girl wore slung by a lanyard to her waist.

There's no reasoning against that," said my
uncle. " Girls, your mother's right. We all of us
wish Jack plenty of luck; he deserves it, and, in
my opinion, he'll get it ; but he must haul alone.
Yes, my lad, it must be a single-handed job. Ita
pity, but women are the best judges of what's
proper and decorous in behaviour, and what your
aunt says we're bound to endorse, both of us."

Once more I say all this was very distressing,
besides being flat, stale, and unprofitable, for it
was going over old ground ; however, I put on a

pleasant face, thanked my aunt for her good wishes,
apologized for having been the cause of Mr. Hawke's
rudeness, and by backing and filling managed to
go clear of the confoundedly narrow channel into
which my uncle's candid soul had warped me, and
then, with a dexterous twist, changed the subject.

After luncheon Sophie came to the window of
tire room in which her father and I sat smoking,
and asked if I would take a walk with her. I at
once said "Yes," and looked at her eagerly, fancying
that she intended to put me in the way of
meeting Florence. She read my thoughts and
shook her head, and said significantly, " Only fora
walk, Jack, as far as Observatory Hill, just to
kill an hour." "No mischief hatching, I hope,"
says my uncle, who was half asleep. " I wish
there was, in the sense you mean," thought I,
greatly disappointed by Sophie's shake of the head.
"Yes, I should be very glad to take a stroll," I said
to my cousin, with whom in that sentimental time
I took great pleasure in conversing : so she went
away, and in about twenty minutes' time reappeared
dressed for the walk. My uncle was sound asleep,
snoring bravely, with a quantity of cigar ash on
his trowsers, and his arms hanging all abroad.

Won't Amelia join us ? " I asked Sophie as
we stepped on to the lawn. She answered that
her sister had been walking in the morning and
felt tired, and that her mamma was lying down in

her bedroom. I dare say neither of them knew
that she was going for a walk with me ; she wanted
to have my emotions and woes to herself — to enjoy
me alone, as if I were a love story in three
volumes. Indeed, my cousin Sophie had a truly
romantic turn of mind, a keen and native relish of
all matters which concern the heart. How she
managed to endure life without having some great
secret of her own I cannot imagine. Perhaps she
had; and if so I should feel disposed to bet that he
had melancholy eyes and was considerably in
debt.

We walked along very slowly, and as we walked
we conversed on the one topic that at that period
absorbed the whole of my slender stock of understanding.
" I can only repeat, Jack," says she,
u that I am deeply vexed at not being able to help
you as I should like. I had made such capital
plans. Again and again Florence could have been
at our house when you arrived — quite by accident,
of course. Then she and I could have taken
drives, and met you in the most unexpected
manner. But mamma's wishes are law," and the
dear thing sighed with all her might.

Sophie," said I, "at lunch you heard me say I
had seen young Morecombe in the Hawkes'
carriage. I spoke of him lightly, for I want
nobody but you to know all that I feel. But the
truth is, Sophie, the sight of that man has made

me miserable ; I had no notion he was so good-looking."


"He is not good-looking," she replied scornfully;
"it's your jealousy that makes him formidable.
At all events, if he's good-looking in your
opinion, depend upon it he does not come up to a
woman's ideas of a handsome man."

"You merely say this to comfort me," I
mumbled.

I say it because it is true," she exclaimed.
Were you to talk to him you'd find him positively
ugly ; he has not an atom of expression, he has a
most sickly, conceited smile, he says * aw,' like old
Mr. Hawke, but much more often, and ' hear ' for
hear ' and ' bear ' for ' beer ' ; and he also
stammers a little. If Florence were with us she'd
agree in every word I say. At all events, she does
not think him good-looking."

"Are you sure of that?" I asked, longing to
believe her and thoroughly doubting what she said
at the same time — a truly miserable condition of
mind to be in.

"Are not you sure?" she replied. "Why, she
called him a fool to your face once ; don't you
remember? And do you think a woman would
speak like that of a man she admired ? "

Oh, but she was talking of his brains, not of
his appearance," said I. " Confound the fellow !
I wish I had never seen him. I never supposed

that be was much more than a soft, clean-faced,
under-sized fop."

He's not much more, whatever you may think,"
said she ; " and if Florence does not admire him —
which I know to be the case ; didn't she once say
to me he had a most inane countenance ? — why
will you allow such trifling matters as a moustache
and an eye-glass to worry you ? Why, at that
rate an umbrella or a walking-stick will be disturbing
your peace of mind next. Depend upon
it, Mr. Reginald Morecombe is not to Florence's
taste."

What is to her taste ? Can you imagine ? "
said I, letting conviction creep into me bit by bit,
like an eel working its way into the mud. Here
my warm-hearted cousin did me the honour to
closely describe Jack Seymour. Yes ; she said
that what Florence liked was a Roman nose — nota
hook, but a bumpkin or outrigger of the proper
classic kind ; plenty of brown hair, elegantly
tossed off the manly brow as if recently combed by
a gale of wind ; a tolerable mouth, fairish teeth,
and a small honest moustache — not a great heap
of hair, which might conceal nobody could tell
what, and which when shaved off might leave a
most dreadful and wonderful change behind. And
so my kind cousin talked on, making beauties of
my imperfections and overpowering me with the
glimpses of my own charms she enabled me to

VOL. I. Q

snatch. It was hard not to "believe all she said ;
my vanity, my hopes, my love were all on her side.
But her adamantine amiability, that was proof
against my intolerable egotism, — that did not
crumble and fall down before the battery of such
questions as, "And you really think she admires me
more than Mr. Morecombe ?" " And you honestly
believe, Sophie, that she likes me?" "And
your opinion is that if I could only manage to meet
her a few times it would end in my winning her
love?" "And you are sure that her father will
never induce her to accept Mr. Morecombe ? " I
can only recall with veneration and amazement.
How I plied her, poor girl ! Sometimes I apologized;
sometimes I would say, "Ton my word, I
am very unreasonable ; I have no right to be
worrying you in this fashion. I ought not to bore
you with all this talk." But whether it was that
she enjoyed the conversation and would not let me
drift out of it, or that I could not find anything
else to talk about, it always happened that I regularly
returned to the subject of Florence Hawke,
what she thought of me, my chances, what I ought
to do, and the like.

We were wandering along side by side, like a
pair of lovers deep in conversation, when she
suddenly caught hold of my arm, came to a dead
stop, compelling me to halt likewise, and exclaimed
with a sort of consternation in her manner, " Good

gracious, Jack, there's Florence in front of us !
and there's Emily in that Bath chair." We were
somewhere about where the St. Vincent Bocks
Hotel now stands ; there was no suspension bridge
in those days. I could see some distance along the
road, that had a railing down one side of it,
leaving a wide margin of edge where the precipitous
cliff fell, and about a couple of hundred paces
ahead of us, there, sure enough, was a Bath chair,
dragged by a man with some silver on his hat, and
walking close alongside of it was Florence Hawke,
though, had not Sophie told me it was she, I should
certainly not have recognized her at that distance.
They were going our way, and their backs were
towards us. The Bath chair went along very
slowly, and when we stopped, Miss Hawke stopped
and looked towards the river, and then rejoined her
sister.

"Let us go on, Sophie, let us go on!" I
exclaimed, hearing my heart drumming in my ears
as if Punch and Judy were not far off.

"What are we to do, Jack?" cried she.
Ought we to join them ? What will mamma
say?"

For heaven's sake, don't let us lose sight of
them," I replied, catching hold of her arm and
obliging her to walk. "We can argue the matter
moving, can't we ? What can your mamma say ?
She doesn't want you to cut Miss Hawke. This

meeting is purely accidental — it is what I have been
longing and praying for — don't think of anybody
but me at this moment." And tightening my clutch
of her arm I forced her to step out.

Well, as you say, it's purely accidental," said
the good-natured girl, fast losing her breath. " I
certainly cannot be disobeying mamma by speaking
to Florence when we meet, although you are with
me."

And you have met her," cried I, " after an
Irish fashion, certainly ; but we'll make it a proper
meeting."

As we drew near I actually trembled with excitement
and nervousness. I never gave the circumstance
of Miss Emily being with her sister a
thought. All that I felt was that I was going to
meet and see and speak to the girl I was deeply in
love with, and whom I had done nothing but think
of, and dream of, and worry over, and speculate
upon ever since the first night I had set foot in
Clifton. Why wouldn't she look round and see us
coming? This stern-chase doubled my nervousness,
more especially as the pair of us threatened
to blunder alongside short of breath and scare the
darling by our sudden apparition and invasion.
We were within twenty feet of the Bath chair when
Emily turned her head and spied us. Perhaps
she did not immediately recognize us, for she took
another short squint before speaking to her sister.

Instantly Florence stopped and looked; for a
moment she bung in the wind, I fancied, as if
she did not know what to do ; then with a bright
smile she advanced, gave Sophie a kiss, and
extended her hand to me.

Mates, shaking hands with a girl you love is a
wonderful sensation. I could scarcely let go of
the soft, tender, velvet-like gloved fingers; and
frightened, shy, palpitating, and excited as I was,
the delight kindled in my face I could guess at by
seeing the effect of it in hers.

I am so glad to see you, Sophie," said she.
How is it you have not called ? You owe me a
visit, you know," and she smiled archly.

But the fellow that was hauling the Bath chair
along had come to a stand ; Miss Emily had to be
saluted, and we went to her. She looked at me
with amazement as I raised my hat. She did
not attempt to disguise her wonder. Nothing was
more certain than that she had not the least idea
I was still in Bristol ; whence, quick as lightning,
I inferred that Florence had kept the fact of my
having taken lodgings in the neighbourhood a
secret from her father and sister. A noble
augury for me, as what lover will doubt ? Could
the poor delicate creature have had her way, she
would have ordered the flunkey to wheel her home.
This was as plain as mud in a wine-glass by her
first movement of surprise at seeing me and the

marked coolness of her manner immediately afterwards.
But, Heaven be praised! she was too
young to be dangerous in that way. Sophie, who
was anxiously smiling and red as a cook with the
heat, for I had dragged her along without ceremony,
said, "Don't let us keep you standing.
We are going your way : " and forthwith the
silver-hatted gentleman touched his hat, bent his
back, and off we started.

We all kept together at the beginning. I had
very little to say, and indeed just then was hardly
able to do more than look. Occasionally Entity
would stare at me as if I had just clambered out
of the river over the cliff; but I took no notice;
I had no eyes but for Florence. Could I pretend
to know how she was dressed? what sort of hat
she wore ? what colour her parasol was ? Depend
upon it, a man is not very far gone when he notes
his girl's attire. Why, confound him, whatever
she has on will be in the most delicious taste in
the world when he is in love, and that is all he
will be able to say about it. What I remember
of Florence that day was her face and figure. It
was her beauty that clothed her — nothing more.

Well, we all tried to appear at the first going off
as if nothing whatever had happened — as if I were
not in love, as if Florence didn't know I was in
love, as if Alphonso Hawke were on the friendliest
terms with the Seymours, as if there were no

Morecombe, no Bristol lodgings, no blood wanted
no nothing. Emily was horribly cool, certainly,
and the eagerness in her soul to tell papa was
visible in her sickly lineaments. But we did not
mind her; Florence talked of the weather, I of
the dust, and Sophie of the curate of St. Andrew's.
At last Sophie said something to Emily, first
stealing a peep at me that I might see my chance.
My heart set off afresh ; but I was resolved that
nervousness should not hinder me. A time had
come for which I had been praying ; so girding
up my loins (in an intellectual sense, of course),
I took a lateral step that brought my arm against
Florence's, and said in a low voice, "I was afraid
I should never see you again."

She coloured up — how could she remember I
had told her that I loved her and not appreciate
the significance of this meeting and of every word
I could say in her private ear ? — and answered,
I heard from Sophie that you had taken lodgings
in Bristol. I hope you are comfortable, though
you don't deserve to be for giving up your kind
relatives' home."

I did that for your sake," said I.

I know you did," she answered, " and I am
sorry to have been the cause."

(I saw Emily staring at us. Meanwhile Sophie
talked fast to her.)

I would do anything for your sake," said I.

The one hardship is the rare chance of meeting
you. Why is your father prejudiced against me ?
He does not know me. Could I help falling in
love with you ? He is to blame for having for a
daughter the loveliest girl in the world."

Don't talk nonsense, Mr. Seymour," said she,
turning her face aside and smiling. (We had
dropped about a fathom astern of the Bath chair
and right in the wake of it ; so Emily could not
go on looking without straining her neck.) And
then raising her sweet eyes to me, she said, " If a
landsman talked to me as you do, I should walk
away, I should be angry. But I can forgive a
very great deal in a young man who has been to
sea as a sailor."

"And why? because if he's a real sailor he'll
speak the truth — as I do. Do you doubt my
sincerity ? Do you think I am only flattering
you ? Heaven forgive you, if you suppose that !
I can tell you that you have made me the most
wretched creature in existence. I am in love with
you, and my love puts you a thousand leagues
further away from me than were I to like you
only as an acquaintance. For, before, we could
meet, I could talk to you, I could be in your
presence and look at you ; now I go on day after
day with nothing upon earth to console me but
your likeness."

She was a little scared by my impassioned manner,

which put a kind of ingenuousness into my
Voice.

There is no need for you to be wretched," said
she.

Why do you say that ? " cried I, grasping at
the straw. " Only tell me that I may hope — I
ask for no more now — and you'll make me the
gladdest fellow in the world."

I'll tell you nothing at all," she answered.
M I wish you would not think of me. Indeed, Mr.
Seymour, I ought not to talk to you."

See here, Miss Hawke — no, I'll call you Florence
you may not like it ; hut I'm determined to get
one happy memory out of all this worry ; will you
answer a question ? "

"You mustn't call me Florence," said she
smiling.

"Why not?" said I. "How cruel you are.
You will not yield an inch." She returned no
answer. " Since you object I will not call you
Florence."

11 You may say it once, but only once," said she,
turning her head away again.

May I put something before it."

94 What '? " she inquired, rather breathlessly.

"May I say-darling Florence?" I cried,
feeling that if that abominable Bath chair were
out of sight I should seize her hand.

"Oh no, certainly not," she exclaimed, honestly

frightened. " Oh, Mr. Seymour — you told me I
would not give you an inch, and now you are
wanting to take a whole mile ! "

Well, I'll not call you darling— I'll think it—
I'll say Florence — will you answer a question ? "

I'll see when you ask it."

I put nry face close to her and said, " Have I
anything to fear from Mr. Keginald Morecombe ? "

I'll answer that," she replied at once ;
though you are not nice in putting it in that
way. My reply is ' No ' ! "

It was a wonder I did not burst into a hornpipe.


Oh, Florence ! " I cried, " if you only knew —
if you could only conceive the weight your answer
takes off my mind."

You have called me Florence twice," she exclaimed.
" You are not fair. But let us join the
others. Emily will be wondering "

"Give .me another moment," said I. "I may
not meet you for a long time again, and I shall
have nothing but this little conversation to live
upon."

I hope we shall meet soon then, for your sake,"
she exclaimed, " for how thin you will become if
we don't ! "

"I certainly shall — joking apart. Already I
feel as if I were wronging Nature by not being a
shadow. For my sake you hope we shall meet

soon, you say. Will you tell me how I am to
meet you? "

"Indeed I cannot," she replied, "and therefore
you ought to return to your uncle instead of living
foolishly in apartments."

But Mrs. Seymour respects your father's
wishes," said I. " She thinks if we were to meet
at her house Mr. Hawke would consider her unneighbourly.
How miserable it is to be dependent
on others ! " And then, perceiving that she was
making little feints to leave me, and would certainly
be off in a moment or two, I exclaimed, " Florence,
before we join the others will you tell me that you
like me a little bit ? "

She laughed and said, " Of course I like you
a little bit ; " and then afraid, no doubt, that this
would lead to a larger question she made sail, and
we drew alongside the Bath chair.

There's a good deal of imbecility in what I have
written, my lads, but how am I to explain what an
amount of 'boating-ship there was in my courtship
if I don't tell you what I said to my sweetheart
when I made love to her ? Besides, who expects
good sense in love-making ? Only Frenchmen
court wittily, and shall I tell you why ? because
they are never in earnest. When John Bull offers
his heart he means it. Yes, he kneels down in his
great boots, makes a fool of himself, rumbles out
nonsense in bad grammar ; but there's conscience

in his twaddle. There was sincerity in mine ; I
meant all that I said, and so yon have the best
excuse I can offer for asking you to listen to this
stuff.

We ranged alongside the Bath chair, as I have
said, and Sophie at once quitted Emily for her
sister. Nobody would have required a telescope
to judge from Florence's and my appearance that
we had been enjoying a rather earnest conversation.
Her face was flushed, her eyes were bright,
and there was an odd and fascinating expression
of mirth, puzzlement, gratification, and bother upon
her. Miss Emily was chillingly shy as I stepped
up to her. And what a Bath chair was hers ! a
private turn-out, worthy of Alphonso, superbly lined
and finished, and his confounded old goose or duck
writ large on the stern and sides of it. But I was
too mellow, too sanguine, too intoxicated by what
had passed between Florence and me to allow this
poor feeble little girl to repel me.

I thought you had left Clifton ? " said she.

So I have," I replied, smiling with the energy
of a showman in my desire to look amiable.

Yes," says she, " but you have not gone very
far away."

True," I observed, guessing that Sophie had
told her I lodged in Bristol; "but I am so
charmed by the scenery here," said I, hypocritically,
casting my eyes around the prospect, "that

I could not prevail upon myself to return to
London."

Of course she knew better ; indeed she looked
at me as much as to say, "You are a horrid storyteller.
But never mind. Papa shall hear of all
this." She was desperately hard to talk to. She
gave me but little more than monosyllables. I
asked after her health, and she returned me a
reply that was like bidding me mind my own
business. I then inquired after Mr. Morecombe's
sprain, and this seemed to freeze her up. There
was no chance for amiability here. I had hoped
when we met at her house that she was a girl I
could " get on with," as the phrase goes. But she
was her papa's child; she had heard him talk
about me ; she was jealous, suspicious, peevish,
anxious to be off and can her tales with her, after
the manner of others of her lovely sex, who in the
sacred name of loyalty to papa and mamma and
the family dignity oppose their pretty sisters when
lovers heave in sight and bear down ; and, hard
as I tried, I could make nothing of her. Meanwhile
Sophie and Florence had dropped astern and
were deep in talk. I was anxious that they should
not be interrupted, as I easily guessed that my
cousin would make Jack Seymour the topic between
them, and perhaps end in getting Florence to
consent to an occasional accidental meeting with
me ; and this wish it was that they should have

plenty of leisure for conversation that held me
close alongside the Bath chair, saying whatever
came into my head, and by my incessant jabber
fending off any desire Emily might have to order
the fellow in the cockade to drag her away.

At last we came to a road that obliged us to say
good-bye, unless we had a mind to accompany
Florence and the Bath chair to Clifton Lodge,
which would have been indiscreet. We stood
talking a few minutes, and then Florence put out
her hand to me. As I held it I whispered, "Do
give me a chance of meeting you again soon?"
"I will see," she answered. More than this it
would not have been wise to say, for Emily's eyes
were upon us ; nor was I surprised that there
should have been an expression of real wonder in
them, for there was something in Florence's face as
she said " I will see," and in her posture as I stood
holding her hand, that must have been a revelation
to the poor little suspicious invalid. I raised
my hat, the wheels of the Bath chair went round,
and Sophie and I turned our faces homewards.

"Well, Jack," said my cousin, "do you feel
happier in your mind now that you have met
Florence ? "

Ay, my darling, fit to stand upon my head,"

I exclaimed. " Isn't she " And here I ran

through adjectives enough to fill a page. " Sophie,
I am positive she begins to like me seriously."

So am I. But what do you think she told
me?"

Don't ask questions ! " cried I in an agony of
curiosity. "Whip it out, Sophie."

Mr. Morecombe has proposed to her."

"The devil!" I exclaimed, coming to a dead
stand. "When?"

"Last evening."

"And what was her answer?" said I, very
nearly breathless.

She gave him a flat refusal, Jack — a flat
refusal ! " shouted the delicious creature, breaking
into a loud laugh and clapping her hands. There
was an old woman in a large bonnet and a green
veil, dragged along by a strong white dog, some
distance behind us ; but I did not heed her. In
my transport I seized hold of Sophie, danced her
into the middle of the road and back again on to
the footpath ; and so heedless was my ecstasy,
that I not only paid no attention to her cries, but
I did not even know that my hat had fallen off
until I spied it in the road, whereupon I kicked
it into the air, caught it as it fell, and laughing
with all my might, took Sophie's arm and started
afresh. She tried to look indignant at me for
being so rough, but it would not do ; my face must
have been one surface of shining delight. She
took a look and burst into such a fit of merriment
that the tears rolled down her cheeks; so that

what with this coming on top of her involuntary
waltz, she had a perfectly dissipated appearance,
her hair in disorder, and her hat most ludicrously
cocked.

Flatly refused him ! What d'ye think of that? "
cried I, squeezing her plump arm. " Flatly
refused him ! What a noble girl ! What a piece
of news ! And Alphonso ? "

She says that her father was in a great rage,
and has scarcely opened his lips to her since."

"And Reginald, the proprietor of blood — what
does he think? "

She did not say much about him. Her words
to me were, ( Sophie, I do not like him, and I will
not have him. I am very sorry. It grieves me to
oppose papa's wishes ; but I cannot consent to link
my life with that of a man who is stupid and
conceited, for whose character I have not the least
respect.' "

"Are not those beautiful sentiments ?" I cried.
"What a grand woman she is ! Oh, Sophie, if I
perish in the effort, I must go on struggling to win
her."

"Didn't I say from the beginning she would
never accept Mr. Morecombe ? "

"You did," I replied; "and you are a grand
woman too. But now that the youth's offer has
been declined, I suppose he'll not be mean-spirited
enough to go on remaining at old Hawke's house,

will he ? Yet I saw him in Mr. Hawke's carriage
this morning. Doesn't he mean to ceo, confound
him ? Is he so great a fool as not even to have
any instincts as a man ? "

Florence thinks he will return to London when
his foot is strong enough to stand on," replied
Sophie. " But she quite gave me to understand
that though he goes he'll not go for good. He has
no intention of giving her up. Oh dear no ! he !
he ! he ! Men like Mr. Morecomhe are not in the
habit of taking no for an answer. Besides, her
papa will not let himself be beaten without a
desperate fight."

Only let Florence complain to me that this
fellow troubles her," said I between my teeth.
I'll leave him no brains to make love with. Let
her complain to me."

"There's more news yet," said Sophie. "The
day before yesterday Mr. Hawke received a letter
from his sister, a spinster, named Dainaris, who
lives in Sydney, saying she was coming on a visit
to them. The letter was posted a week or two
before she sailed, so she'll be here soon."

What do you call her ? " I asked.

Damaris — Aunt Damaris."

A pretty name. And what does she want ? "

A change, I suppose. If she is like her
brother, and sides with him, there'll be more
affliction sore for Florence, I fear."

VOL. I. R

Florence need only come to me,'\I exclaimed.
ii I'll protect her, though everybody in Australia
was a relation and they all arrived this evening.
Oh, that she would come at once, Sophie ! "

Upon my word, if things go on as they are,
Jack, I believe you'll end in making her come,"
said she. " To render a girl's home miserable
can hardly be the right way for a father to control
her as he would like. Emily of course will tell her
papa that she and Florence met us, and that will
create another scene."

Yes ; and you are aware, Sophie, that Emily,
and therefore of course old Hawke, did not know
that I was living at Bristol ? "

"Florence is a sly puss," she replied. " I was
really more surprised by Emily's ignorance than
she was surprised by seeing you. The fact of
Florence keeping your movements a secret from
her family looks well for you, Jack ; though is it
quite proper that she should do so ? "

This'was challenging my darling's integrity ; so I
said, of course it was proper. My movements were
not supposed to form any part of Florence's
business. What right had her father to expect
that she should talk to him about me, and appear
to know what I was doing when he had prohibited
her from calling at my uncle's house for fear that
she should meet me ? It was not a question of
her frankness or honesty. A girl might hear of

many things she should not trouble herself to
repeat.

"Well, it may be as you say," said Sophie;
and, at any rate, if she has not been quite so
candid with her papa as strict people might
consider it her duty to be, the only person that
ought to be blamed is Mr. Hawke. And now, Jack,
what shall we say when we get home ? "

Whatever you please, my dear."

We had better tell everything," said she.

• You will, whether we agree to hold our tongues
01 not," said I.

She laughed and exclaimed: "I must give
Amelia the news about Mr. Morecombe. And
mamma will be so interested! Besides, the
meeting was entirely accidental — we can both
solemnly declare that ! "

"Ay, on our knees if required," said I. And as
I spoke we arrived at my uncle's house.

CHAPTER XII.

I RECEIVE A VISIT.

Our conversation at dinner that day, when the
dessert was on the table and Cobb the man-servant
had carried his large ears out of the room, was all
about Florence and Mr. Morecoinbe. Of course
Sophie had told her mamma and Amelia everything,
and more than everything ; enough had transpired,
as newspapers say, during the earlier stages of the
dinner to make my uncle acquainted^with the news,
and therefore all that we had to do was to speculate
and ejaculate, and wonder how Mr. Hawke would
act now, and whether Aunt Damaris would side
with her brother or her niece, and what would bethe
result when Emily told her papa that I was
lodging in Bristol and had been walking with
Florence — yes, and making love to her ?

I never should have supposed that my uncle was
a man to take any interest in such parish matters
as this ; and yet I assure you his curiosity was as
lively as that of the others ; he thoroughly relished

the conversation, and asked questions and ventured
ideas and passed his little jokes with surprising
enjoyment of the subject. But my notion is that
men have as keen a taste for small-talk as ladies,
though they pretend that it is only women who
like it and make it. Many a man have I caught
listening attentively and with strong satisfaction
depicted on his striking countenance to the cheapest
gossip about Miss Jenkins's marriage, his lordship's
elopement, the squire's meanness, and his
reverence's quarrel with the churchwarden. I
have seen bland old fellows sitting at the head of
the tables helping the scandal talked by their
wives and daughters by nods and inquiries and
small insignificant observations. It makes me
laugh to recall our conversation. The picture of
that room rises : my uncle's hairy, kindly face,
with his great Woman nose, like the beak of a
flamingo, standing out over his moustache, and his
small shrewd eyes ful of merriment and curiosity ;
my aunt opposite him, handsome, well-dressed,
trying to keep a firm hold of her sense of her duty
towards her neighbours, and repeatedly letting go ;
Amelia, fat, confident and knowing, and Sophie,
slightly hysterical, very poetical, and with a
disposition to languish whenever a sentimental
point was touched upon. I took particular notice
that my uncle did not attempt to banter med,
his behaviour suggested that he was

inclined to view me as a considerable person who
had achieved a remarkable conquest, and of whose
future it was not easy to conjecture the extent
and importance.

If Sophie's right," said he, " and I don't know
why she shouldn't be right, for she takes after her
mother," looking at her contemplatively, "I should
say, Jack, that Florence Hawke is in love with you."

I have not the least doubt of it," exclaimed
Sophie.

"Well, then," continued he, "if that be so, all
that remains is to excite a feeling of affection for
you in Alphonso Hawke, and you'll have nothing
more to do than write out an impromptu speech
and get it by heart ready to deliver when the old
chap proposes your health at the breakfast."

I am afraid," said my aunt, shaking her head.
"that it will take Mr. Jack a long while to make
Mr. Hawke fond of him."

What Tm thinking of all the time is, what
will Mr. Hawke say to Florence when he hears
that she and Jack have been together this afternoon
? " said Amelia.

Do you think Emily will tell ? " asked my
uncle.

"Tell ! " cried Sophie. "Oh, papa, the intention
I saw in her face was so strong that it was
enough to set the Bath chair rolling by itself to
Clifton Lodge."

"I sincerely trust," observed my aunt., "that
Mr. Hawke will quite understand, Sophie, that
your meeting with Florence was purely accidental."

Matters have come to such a pass," said my
uncle, "that, let Mr, Hawke understand what he
will, my opinion is he'll think the same. But I
hope he'll not be unkind to his daughter."

I hope not, too," said I, kindling.

"After all, what can he do ? " asked Sophie.

Ay, what can he do?" echoed my uncle.
Depend upon it, when a woman resolves for
good or for ill she'll have her wa T , though her
father should lock her up in the Tower of London
and all the City Police should stand in the moat
with their truncheons shouldered. What's that
old song about locks, bolts, and bars ? Isn't
it called 'The Wolf? Jack, there's no wolf
in the world to equal love. Cupid indeed ! D'ye
know, I've but a poor opinion of the ancients for
making a bit of a baby with a pair of wings on
its back stand for the passion that moves the
world. Egad ! if an earthquake was a thing you
could draw, that's the sort of split' em-alive muddle
I'd like to hang up as a correct portrait of love.
Cupid — and bows and arrows ! Blunderbusses,
Jack ! one hundred pounders, sir ! bomb shells and
cannon balls, by thunder ! that's what I'd give 'em!"

But I'll not linger over this dinner-table nor the
conversation that took place at it. In all my life

I never was in such high spirits. The fact that
Florence had flatly refused Mr. Morecombe was
only one item in a catalogue of rapturous memories
; her manner, the pleasure she had shown
on seeing me, our talk behind the Bath chair, her
admission that she liked me a little bit, her " I'll
see " when I asked her if we were to meet again,
were recollections of a nature calculated to make
me feel very fit to waltz the whole way from
Clifton to my lodgings. When I bade my relatives
good-night my uncle held me by the hand arid
said, " Jack, I don't want to discourage you, you
know that ; but don't be too sanguine. You will
find Alphonso Hawke a very large difficulty. However,
be patient, be honest, be sincere up to the
hilt, and above all, don't elope. Runaway marriages
may answer very well for a time ; but let
me tell you, in spite of the old playwrights, that
a parent's blessing is an element of consecration
that no marriage should be without ; and, though
to be sure, old Hawke' s benediction might not
seem a sort of thing to sanctify circumstances
very much, yet, weak as it may be in that way,
you'll be better with it than without it."

I thanked him for his advice and told him in
rather an imposing manner that I hoped it
would not come to an elopement, though if
Florence should be rendered unhappy, I certainly
should not allow any domestic sentiment to stop

me — if she wished — from coming between her and
her father ; and then, accepting a cigar from him,
I departed, not a little inflated by his suspicion
that an elopement was possible. When I reached
my lodgings and sat down to think over what had
taken place that day, I was more than satisfied
with the judgment that had determined me upon
stopping in Bristol. Numerous delightful visions
rose before me as I sat looking at the little room
through the smoke of my uncle's excellent tobacco.
I pictured Florence driven to distraction by her
papa's severity and Air. Morecombe's importunities,
and calling upon me to rescue her from her state
of misery. I even went so far as to figure that
very elopement against which my uncle had
advised me. Yes, I went through the whole
agitating business. I prowled about the house, I
hid letters under a stone beside her father's gate,
where she would find them after dusk and eagerly
devour them ; I eventually won her consent to my
bearing her away from her luxurious but cruel
parental roof, and my undaunted imagination then
proceeded to figure us in London lodgings, poor,
but in the highest degree respectable, occasionally
helped by my large-hearted uncle, and then, after
a time, visited by old Hawke, who begged our forgiveness
and handed his daughter a cheque that
immediately enabled us to furnish a house in a
fashionable square. What young lover, perplexed

by family objections, has not dreamt in some such
fashion as this ? We are all knight-errants in
youth — our chivalry runs high — we disdain dross
and think only of soul ; our lances are couched,
and we ride at full gallop. I had not sat in the
rather uncomfortable armchair ten minutes before
I had eloped, was married, was settled, was doing
well, was returning my relation's hospitality by
elegant entertainments, and had Mr. Hawke repeatedly
calling, and talking of me in high terms
behind my back. And when I went to bed all this
happened again and again in dreams.

Yet, oddly enough, in spite of a night of paradisaical
visions, the first thought that came into
my head next morning when I awoke was my
uncle's parting sentence: "Jack, I don't want to
discourage you, you know that ; but don't be too
sanguine." I had risen rather later than usual,
had breakfasted, had written a letter to my
London landlady desiring her to forward me
certain articles, and was lounging with a pipe in
my mouth over a local paper. It was a little
after eleven o'clock. The breakfast things were
still upon the table, the cloth clean indeed, but
the general appearance not particularly handsome,
thanks to the remains of some fried bacon, a
couple of eggshells, a stain under the coffee-pot
where I had capsized a spoonful of the liquor.

All on a sudden a great gorgeous open carriage,

drawn by two horses with plenty of silver on
their harness, and a couple of fellows in splendid
livery on the box, drove up and stopped with a
mighty rattle at the door of my lodgings. One
glance was enough to assure me that it was the
Hawkes' carriage, and that Mr. Hawke was inside
it and alone. I jumped up and backed to the end
of the room, whence I had a good view of the old
man, who gazed sternly and contemptuously at
the house, running his eyes up and down it. I
determined not to see him. The idea of his
coming fresh from the gilt and glory of Clifton
Lodge to this bit of a room with its broken eggshells
and its cold relics of fried ham was awful
to me. What story would he relate to Florence ?
How would he triumph over her in his relation of
the figure the young gentleman who was in love
with her cut when he was at home !

A fearful knock thundered through the house, and
the neighbours over the way crowded to the windows
to have a look. I went to the door of the room to
intercept the landlady. As is usual on occasions
when you are exceedingly impatient and don't want
people to be kept waiting, a considerable interval
elapsed before any attention was paid to the summons.
The landlady then came out of the kitchen
very deliberately — the kitchen was at the back of
the house downstairs ; had the woman seen the
carriage or received into her ears the full thunder

of the knock, she would have bundled up smartly,
no doubt — and I darted out upon her.

Mrs. Chump," said I, " it is somebody for me.
Please say I am not at home."

Not at home ! " cried she, looking at me with
astonishment.

"I mean that I don't want to be in — say I'm
out," said I, in an agony,

"But ye're not out," says she. "Would you
have me tell a lie ? Not for worlds, sir," and the
creature dropped me a curtsey.

At that moment a second terrific summons — it
was the footman, and I should have liked to knock
his head off; the villain, I suppose, thought he
could give himself airs upon a humble door — ■
made Mrs. Chump hop like a wine-glass on a table
heavily thumped. I saw so much severity of conscience
in her face that I knew entreaty would be
useless, and unless I ran her into the kitchen and
threatened her with violence if she opened the door,
there was nothing for it but to allow her to let old
Hawke in. So I backed into the parlour, growling
to her to make haste if she meant to answer the
summons at all, and flung myself into a chair,
catching hold of the newspaper and assuming as
easy a posture as I could adopt.

"Is Mr. Seymour in?" the footman asked, after
muttering something about folks' impudence in
keeping people waiting.

Yes, sir," replied Mrs. Chump, with hideous
alacrity and a voice full of awe, having had no
notion of the gorgeous apparition that stood opposite
her house. The old fellow got out of the carriage,
and I heard his hoots creak. " Announce Mr.
Hawke," said he ; and Mrs. Chump, shoving into
the room, said " Mr. Work, sir'' " Clear the table,"
said I. "Pray walk in, Mr. Hawke," and I stood
up and pointed to a seat.

He looked an immense man in that little room.
"Can I," said he, standing against the wall so as
to be clear of Mrs. Chump, who was whipping the
breakfast things off the table, " have a few minutes
with you, sir ? "

Certainly," I replied. " Never mind the cloth,
Mrs. Chump ; " and I shut the door upon her as
she backed out with her hands full of crockery.
Mr. Hawke sat down and put his hat and gloves
upon the table. He seemed to have grown half as
big again since I saw him last. In breadth of face,
surface of waistcoat, squareness of shoulders, and
length and dimensions of legs and arms, there
seemed a visible expansion. Now he was close to,
I could remark that he was very nervous, and I
judged that the scowls he had directed at the little
house were merely the outward expressions of a mind
labouring after courage. I was probably more nervous
than he, though I was successful in putting
on a manner that tolerably well cloaked my feelings.

"I have called upon you," said he, sitting bolt
upright, " in reference to nay daughter, Miss
Hawke." I bowed and tried to look surprised ; but
it would not do. "I believe, sir," he continued,
"that you are no — aw — no stranger to my wishes
respecting that lady ? "

I have heard from my relatives that you want
her to marry Mr. Morecombe, if that's what you
mean, Mr. Hawke," I replied.

Sir," he exclaimed, with a heavy nod, " that
is what I mean. Your relatives are perfectly well
acquainted with my wishes, and — aw — I greatly
regret that a family whom I considered in the light
of friends should have — aw — should have thought
proper to — aw — to combine against me, to act in
concert with, or rather, let me say, to court my
daughter from the path of duty and — aw — back
her— yes, I will say and back her— in defying my
wishes."

"This," said I, "concerns my uncle. He is so
well qualified to take his own part that there is no
reason for me to do more than refer you to him."

I consider him and his family more guilty than
you, sir," he exclaimed,' warming up and talking
with some briskness. " They knew my wishes ;
Mr. and Mrs. Seymour are — aw — are parents themselves.
They had no right, I say, they had no
right to allow you and my daughter to meet, to —
to — in short — aw — it was their duty as parents and

neighbours to discountenance what the' knew would
prove objectionable to in .

"All this, Mr. Hawke," said I, "as I have
already said., refers to my relations, and on that
subject my uncle is the proper person for you to
address yourself to. You have, I presume," said I
with a glance round the room as much as to tell
him not to judge me by what he saw, '*' called upon
me on some matter relating to myself. May I
inquire what it is? "

•• It concerns your admiration of my daughter,"
he answered. " I have every reason to believe that
you have gone so far as to — aw — to express even
affection for her, and the purpose of this visit is to
beg you to discontinue your attentions to her." I
looked at him steadily, for my wits seemed to come
to me when he said this. " I have no doubt," he
continued, M that your regard for her is perfectly
sincere, and that you are actuated by the — aw — the
most gentleman-like and honourable intentions.
But that is not the point. Whatever construction
your intentions may bear, they — aw — they must
prove equally objectionable to me ; and I am here,
Mr. Seymour, for the purpose of calling upon you
as a gentleman not only to cease to have any
thoughts about Miss Hawke, but to prove your
principles as a man of honour by removing from
Bristol."

T looked at him with astonishment. "Remove

from Bristol ! " I ejaculated. " Cease to have any
thoughts about Miss Hawke ! " and, as I hope to be
forgiven, I burst into a loud laugh.

His face turned as red as a powder flag. " If*
he exclaimed angrily, " I have no power to oblige
you to leave Bristol, you may rest assured that I
can and will stop your unwarranted attentions to
my daughter. I tell you this," says he, breathing
hard and laying hold of his beard with one hand
and in a manner menacing me with the other, " so
that if you have hired this lodging with the hope of
obtaining the end, which I have no doubt your
uncle has put into your head, you may as well spare
yourself disappointment by — aw — by leaving the
town without delay."

"I can assure you, Mr. Hawke," said I, "that I
would far rather you should talk to me rudely than
politely, because by so doing you enable me to tell
you more than I should think of saying were you
kind or even courteous. A couple of sentences will
convey my intentions. First, I mean to stop in
Bristol as long as I choose ; and second, I am in
love with your daughter, and have not the least
idea of relinquishing the hope of one day winning
her. I am sorry," I continued, '"'that your unkindness
should force me to speak so frankly. I'm not
going to tell you I respect your wishes about your
daughter. You have no right to force her hand.
The Commandment says she must honour you ; but

you ought to honour lor too, sir. Still, I am sorry
to run foul of your notions, though if you suppose
I could help falling in love with your daughter, all
that I can say is, Mr. Hawke, you pay your own
child a very poor compliment. And since I'm
talking," said I, amazed by my own bluntness
and assurance, and yet not in the least degree able
to control myself, " I should like to point out that
I am no fortune-hunter. I am quite capable of
supporting a wife. Had I found Miss Hawke living
even in such lodgings as these, dressed like one of
your housemaids, and having to sew for bread, I
should love her not less than I do now, though I
could not love her more."

This put the old fellow quite at a loss. He had
been red, but now he was white. I suppose he saw
that I was not to be managed by his anger, nor to
be made ashamed of myself, and he would not like
to drop his sour dignity and high parental wrath
for an appealing attitude. He seized his hat and
gloves and stood up, and so did I.

I had hoped," said he, "to have gained your
promise as a gentleman to cease annoying me
through Miss Hawke. But," added he brutally, "I
see what you are. And let me advise you," continued
he, shaking his gloves at me, " not to come
near my house, not to have any communication
with my daughter, to — aw — to keep your distance,
though you should stop here for the rest of your

VOL. I. S

life. I'll have you watched, sir — I'll set the police
at you — I'll protect myself — I'll, I'll — why, confound
your impudence ! who the devil are you, to
have designs upon my daughter?" he cried, casting
aside his " laws " and breeding and whipping outwith
a genuine piece of squatters.

Nothing but my temper stopped me from laughing
at this exquisitely absurd contrast. It was not
pleasant, however, to be sworn at and scorned, and
I was in the act of delivering a hot answer when I
was stopped by a rapping on the window. I looked
and saw my uncle trying to peer in through the
muslin curtain and tapping with the head of his
stick. I immediately went to the door and opened
it, and he came in.

Who have you here ? " he asked, kicking his
heels on the door-mat. "Has Florence driven
over to marry ye ?"

There was no use in crying "Hush! " to this; the
sitting-room door was open, and what was worse,
Mr. Hawke came into the passage as the question
was asked in a loud voice.

Oh, how do you do, Mr. Hawke ? " exclaimed
my uncle coldly. " Jack, by your leave I'll sit
down. Egad, this heat is very trying to an old
man. Mr. Hawke, don't let me drive you away,
sir. Are you here on business ? if so I'll sit in
your carriage till you've done — but sit I must."

Mr. Hawke bowed stiffly, and was waiting for us

to come out of the narrow passage in order to leave
the house, when I said, " I hope you'll not hurry,
sir. Uncle, Mr. Hawke is here on business that
concerns us both. He has forced me to speak very
plainly — I am very sorry he should have given me
occasion to do so ; but now that you have unexpectedly
called, and there are no ladies of the
family present, we cannot do better than talk this
matter out and have the satisfaction, at all events,
of knowing one another's meaning."

That satisfaction we have already got," exclaimed
Mr. Hawke angrily. "You have been
plain enough and you know my meaning, sir."

My uncle entered the parlour and sat down.
Hawke went to the table and stood against it, and
I remained in the doorway.

"What is the matter, Mr. Hawke ? What has
my nephew Jack been doing?" said my uncle,
putting on a face of concern but evidently not
disliking the situation.

Mr. Seymour," said the old gentleman, very
pale, but speaking with pluck, "you are no
stranger to my wishes respecting my own child. I
find that your nephew has been paying her attention,
and I charge him with obstructing a desire
that lies close to my heart. I have called for the
purpose of requesting him to cease having any
further relations with Miss Hawke, and to remove
himself from Bristol, where his presence is objectionable

to me ; and I think, sir, considering — aw
considering that I owe this disagreeable state of
things to your introduction of your nephew to us
and to the interest your family have — aw — taken
in advancing him in my daughter's good graces,
manifestly against my desires, I have a right to
expect you to support me in the demands I have
made upon your nephew's honour as a gentleman."


"You are fluent upon my honour as a gentleman,
Mr. Hawke," said I, "but you do not treat
me as a gentleman."

Look here, Mr. Hawke," said my uncle ; " I
can't control human nature. Jack is my brother
Tom's son: he is a gentleman, and I introduced him
to you as a gentleman. I am responsible to you
for his good manners. Had he behaved rudely at
your house, had he shown himself ill-bred, I should
have submitted to your reproaches like a lamb.
But I have no influence over his heart. If he is
in love with Florence it is her fault, not mine — her
fault for being a very pretty woman, do you see ?
Sir, you are an older man than I : let us exert our
common sense in this matter."

"It is really — aw — not a question of our joint
common sense, but for mine alone," exclaimed Mr.
Hawke hotly. "My daughter is my business; I
do not desire that your nephew shall — aw — shall
have any further relations with her, and since he

has as good as defied me and insulted me by the
most ill-placed — aw — the most ill-placed mirth, I
have given him notice," says he, turning upon me
with a scowl and then addressing himself to my
uncle, " that I shall spare no trouble to protect my
daughter against his disagreeable advances."

"You are not very polite, Mr. Hawke," said my
uncle, eyeing him somewhat grimly. " I should
have hoped that your respect for the genteel and
the exclusive would have taught you some reserve
in the use of words. As to Jack's advances —
they're not made to you, and consequently you
have no right to call them disagreeable."

"My respect for the genteel and the exclusive,
as you are pleased to call it," answered Mr. Hawke,
standing erect as a foot guard in a sentry-box, " is
sufficiently great to make me desire that your
nephew will have nothing whatever to do with me
or mine."

Xo desire of yours would weigh with me," said
I, going into the room so that I could look at him.
I am in love with your daughter, not with } t ou ;
and if I marry her it will be to get a wife, not a
father-in-law."

You are a very impudent young man," he
exclaimed, staring at me as if he had a mind to
fall upon me.

"But why d'ye insult him, then, Mr. Hawke ? "
cried my uncle. "If you object to him because

he is poor or because he's been a sailor, or because
he hasn't a title, say so; but don't speak to him
as if he was a parvenu, some ragman's son of

yesterday. Hang it, man ! I wouldn't address
even young Moreoombe in such words as you have
applied to my nephew."

k 'I am fully prepared to he insulted by you, sir,"
cried Mr. Hawke ; " and if I linger another moment
in this — aw — this den it will be only to tell you
that I consider the manner in which you have encouraged
your nephew in his encroachments upon
my — aw — my domestic circle, and the sympathy
your daughters have given Florence in her defiant
behaviour to her father, unworthy of you, sir, asa
gentleman and a neighbour." And so saying he
wheeled round and marched out of the room.

My uncle half rose as if to run after him : but I
put my hand upon his arm and stopped him. " For
Heaven's sake, let him go ! " I exclaimed. " He
believes he is wronged — he is an older man than
you — and consider for a moment how utterly
ridiculous must be any ideas Mr. Hawke may have
about what constitutes a gentleman ! " As I
said this the house-door was violently slammed,
and old Hawke, with his nose high in the air and
quivering with indignation, got into his carriage
and drove off. My uncle for a few minutes was ina
great passion.

What did he say ? — that I wasn't a gentleman I

how can I punish him for that ? " he cried. " In
my young days I'd have shot him for such a
sentence. Not a gentleman ! Why did you stop
me from forcing him to apologize ? He never
should have left this house without apologizing tome.
Not a gentleman ! " However, he cooled
down after a little, and when I reminded him that
he insulted the old fellow first by sneering at
Morecombe, he burst into a laugh.

"But what a rude old chap he is! " cried he.
"What had he said before I arrived?" I told
him. "And does he think he can order you out
of Bristol?" he exclaimed. "I suppose all this
comes from Emily telling him of your walk with
Florence yesterday, which, coming on top of the
girl's refusal of Morecombe, would drive the old
man mad. It's odd enough that I should arrive
when he was here. I had some business at my
banker's, and being within five minutes of you I
thought I'd step in and rest myself. I recognized
old Hawke's carriage, and honestly supposed
Florence had called, for could I dream that Hawke
would come in state to visit you merely to have a
row?"

I'm sorry it's happened," said I, lighting my
pipe with a gloomy face. " It has made enemies
of the two families, the very thing 1 left your
house to avert, and I am afraid he'll now take such
steps to stop all chance of my meeting or communicating

with his daughter as will play old
Harry with my hopes."

Never you mind about his enmity so far as weare
concerned," replied my uncle ; " and as to
your chances, are you worse off than you were
before ? He may hate you now : he disliked you
then — what's the difference ? Let me tell you, my
lad, that his calling here is a thundering wholesome
sign for you, since it means that he's seen
enough in his daughter to calculate that you'll
make his chances of blood small enough if he
doesn't get you to sheer off somehow."

"Yes," said I, "I appreciate all that. But
don't you see that he may go and tell Florence
that I've grossly insulted him, and work upon her
feelings as a child."

Tut, tut ! Work upon her feelings as a sweetheart,
you mean. What's the name of the French
play in which either a lover or a father must forfeit
his life at the choice of a girl who decides by
sending her papa to the hangman and marrying
her young man ? The chap who wrote that knew
human nature. Make your mind easy. Love
betwixt youngsters always flourishes best where
there are family riots, just as you get the finest
fruits in the land where earthquakes are common.
Did you ever read ' Romeo and Juliet ' ? I shan't
speak to your aunt or cousins about this. No need
for them to hear of this shindy. But I say, why

d'ye want to go on living here now I You left
because you thought your presence at my house
would stop intercourse between the Hawkes and us.
You may take it," said he with a laugh, " that that
intercourse is now wholly suspended, though not
between Florence and the girls, I hope. Come
home with me, man, and make yourself happy."

I thanked him heartily, but declined, saying that
as things went there was no telling how long I
might require to remain in Bristol; and that I
was sure, let him do what he might to make me
happy at his house, to feel myself an intruder upon
his hospitality after awhile. I also pointed out
that my going to live close to Clifton Lodge might
cause Mr. Hawke to carry his daughter off to some
distant place which I might never get to hear of.

I can't imagine that," said he, "if the distant
place has a post office and Florence means business.
But I don't want to influence you. There's no
doubt you're in earnest, and as you seem pretty
capable of playing your own cards, I don't want to
take upon myself the responsibility of directing
the game in any way. All luck attend ye ! He
called me no gentleman, did he ? and talked about
you as if you were a barges ? All luck attend ye,
I say ! ••

CHAPTER XIII.

Lodgings.

I told you when I set out that this yarn would be
more of a log-book than a regular tale, and though
I have kept my facts pretty close down to this
point, I have now reached a part where the form of
narrative I have chosen will very well serve my
turn for a spell. When nothing particular happens,
you see, there is no good relating it. Besides, what
should all these dialogues, quarrels, descriptions
which I have set down signify but steps in the
gangway ladder over the side to enable you to step
aboard the ship we are going to sail away in before
long ? If I had asked you to embark at Gravesend
at the opening of the tale, I should have had to
keep the anchor down and all hands waiting whilst
I told you what brought me aboard, and gave you
the history of some of the people walking on the
poop and explained who I was. No, I've done the
right thing, I reckon, in going back and bringing
you along with me to the sea (which should be

heaving in sight very soon), and in yarning to you
as we journey about the causes which drove me onto
blue water once more. So now then for an
extract or two from my log-book of that date.

The quarrel with old Hawke capsized my spirits
badly. It was all very fine for my uncle to pooh-pooh,
and say it made no difference. Not to him,
I dare say, but to me it was a most distressing circumstance.
The old fellow of course had driven
away execrating me. I had defied him, in a
manner mocked at him. That was not all. He
had found me in mean lodgings, the room full of
tobacco smoke, the table ornamented with broken
eggshells and such things, and of course the notion
of my poverty begotten in him by what he saw,
would go further than the worst insults I could
heave at his head to force him into extreme
measures to end my pursuit of his daughter. I
suppose he had obliged Florence to divulge my
address, which she had obtained from Sophie.
Emily, of course, was at the bottom of it all ; and
as my uncle had said, my walk with Florence
combined with her refusal of Morecombe was more
than Alphonso could bear. How did I know that
his daughter had not given him reason to believe
that she was in love with me ? Between ourselves,
this was my conviction, and it was like luff-tackles
and preventer backstairs to me during this rolling
and pitching and heaving and galloping time.

Yet bitterly did I regret that the old fellow had
called and found me in. He had manifestly come
in hot haste and in a passion ; his manner of talking
proved that there was no policy, no forethought
; he had commanded me to leave Bristol,
and threatened me, by heavens ! with the police if
I had anything more to do with his daughter.
Nothing but unreasoning temper could account
for such a nonsensical visit as he had paid me ;
and now he would go home smarting from the shot
poured into him by the small-arms man, my uncle,
and loathing me for the meanness of my habitation
and for my youthful scorn and defiance of him.

Says you, " And pray what had you to fear from
his loathing and all that, seeing that he was
bitterly opposed to you before ever he had set
foot in your lodgings ? " Ay, but can't you see,
mates, that this quarrel would strengthen his case
with his daughter ; it would enable him to represent
himself to her as an outraged man, to depict
me in the basest and most odious colours to her,
and to appeal to her feelings as a child ? This I
say was my fear, and so acute was it that when
my uncle went away I determined to write Florence
a full account of all that had passed, implore her
not to allow her father to prejudice her against
me, and then, by hook or by crook, to get the
letter put into her hands, though the job should
cost me fifty pounds.

The breakfast cloth was upon the table, and I
rang for Mrs. Chump to remove it. "Pray,
ma'am," says I, with my temper bubbling like pea-soup
in a ship's coppers, " why did you subject
me to the disturbance — which of course you overheard
— by refusing to tell the gentleman I was
out ? n

"Begging your parting, Mr. Seymour, sir, you
wasn't^out," she replied, stripping the table in an
agitated and distracted manner. "I couldn't goto
tell a lie against my own salvation to oblige
no one."

"But "don't you know," cried I, "that a statement
of that kind is a mere form and not a lie,
well understood by people, and meant to save the
rudeness of the truth ? "

My salvation is first," answered Mrs. Chump,
"and my consideration is that, when I speaks no
matter on what."

If that's your notion," said I, " you'll find it a
hard job to be saved, ma'am ; for should you live
to become an old woman, and I hope you may, I'm
sure, you'll go to your grave so loaded with sea-blessings
that there is every prospect of your
foundering under them ; and our hopes are that
way," said I, pointing to the ceiling, " and not
yonder," pointing to the floor. I then waved her
out of the room with a proper sweep of the hand
towards the door, and after pacing about for twenty

minutes or so, rehearsing what I should say, I sat
down to write a letter to Florence Hawke.

I recall picturing her whilst I hung over the
note-paper, pen in hand, as being in a most disconsolate
state of mind, her eyes red with tears,
her looks most forlorn, her father treating her
tyrannously, passionately using all sorts of
threats, Emily cold and contemptuous and speaking
of me only to say something vicious. All this
of course was purely imaginary; I mean that I
could not know that she was fretting or that her
papa was behaving brutally; but every young
fellow when he writes to his sweetheart has her
before his mind's eye, and addresses her as if she
were opposite him ; and that was what I did,
figuring Florence in the melancholy Mariana,
moated-grange-like posture I have described. It
was this that inspired my pen and caused me to
decant myself. I have no clear recollection of
what I wrote, but believe I told her about her
father's visit and implored her not to allow any
version he should give her of it to prejudice her
against me, and asked her never to forget that I
loved her to distraction, and would die for her if
by cutting my throat or hanging myself I could
make her happy. All this I may have written,
with a deal of other impassioned stuff, winding up
with a hint that if she was miserable she had nothing
to do but to hoist a distress signal. It was

an impudent stroke. It really meant, " If your
father's treatment makes you wretched here, I am
ready to run away with you at a moment's notice."
I wanted her to understand that, to feel that I was
a refuge, and so I cocked it in ; but I say it was a
very audacious, impudent thing for me to imply.

Well, this letter being written, the next job was
to get it delivered to her. How was I to do that ?
I roamed about the little room like a prisoner in his
cell, turning over all sorts of notions. The queerest
ideas came into my head. What did I think of
taking a policeman into my confidence, describing
the lady and offering him a sovereign to watch for
old Hawke to leave the house, then knock, ask to
see Miss Hawke, give her the letter and tell her to
say he had called to know if any boys had been
getting over Mr. Hawke's walls? What did I
think of bribing the family butcher's man to
smuggle the letter into Florence's hand under the
pretence that it was a list of revised prices for
prime joints, and that his master had asked him
to see Miss Hawke and nobody else ? What did I
think of buying a cap or a hat and pinning the
letter inside it as if it were the [bill, and despatching
it in a bag or box to Clifton Lodge ? These
are samples of the schemes which were hove up
out of me by the throes of my imagination. But
none of them satisfied me, and I was thrown back
upon Sophie. I knew her family would object,

that I should be acting dishonestly in asking her
to convey the letter, and that she would be acting
undutifully in accepting the errand. But you see,
lads, it was bound to go somehow or other, and
there was no one to manage its transmission with
greater skill and secrecy than Sophie. So I went
to work and wrote to her, and I better remember
this letter than the other. I told her I was
rendered desperate by the necessity of communicating
with Florence, that I had no friend in the
world but dearest Sophie, that I blushed to ask
her to do anything in opposition to her parents'
wishes, and that I called Heaven to witness if she
would oblige me by handing the inclosed letter to
Miss Hawke, I would never again ask her to disobey
her mamma. This done, I rang the bell and asked
Mrs. Chump if there was an intelligent man or
boy knocking about anywhere, who for a couple of
shillings would immediately deliver the letters
(which were under one cover) at my uncle's house.
The words which had passed between us made her
anxious to oblige ; besides, I paid her fifteen
shillings a week, and was not to be sneered at.
Yes, Mrs. Galloway's boy would be glad to run if he
was at home ; she'd go and seek him. He was at
home, and came back with Mrs. Chump ; I gave
him the address and he instantly sped away, loudly
whistling ; and I sat down trembling after my
great intellectual exertions.

I passed the rest of the day in a very moping,
skulking fashion. I ordered Mrs. Chump to cook
me a chop by way of dinner, and found even the
lean thing she dished up more than my lovesick
appetite could consume. I wandered about the
Corporation quays, looked into the shop windows,
and so forth, but was never long away from my
lodgings. What tortures of mind I underwent on
account of that letter ! Would Sophie send it ?
"What would Florence think if she received it ?
Would she answer it ? Would she show it to her
papa ? Every youth must endure experiences of
this kind, I suppose, when he is in love ; but I
declare that I would rather have half-afoot of
my stature knocked off, or spend ten years of my
life in an Atlantic cattle-ship, than go again
through the sufferings of that .time.

At half-past eight that evening I was in my
sitting-room holding a novel in my hand, upside
down very likely, when a single knock was struck
upon the house door, and Mrs. Chump looked in
and said, " Mr. Seymour's servant, sir. for you."
I went out and saw Cobb, who flourished his
thumb upon his forehead and said, " Miss Sophie's
love, sir, and she sends you this"' It was a
letter ; I carried it to the candles, and found two
inclosures, one from Sophie and the other (sealed
in a very little envelope) from Florence. When I
saw this tetter's handwriting, the bold 1 "Jack

VOL. I. T

Seymour, Esq," with F. H. up in the corner and
the familiar goose for a seal, my agitation was so
great that the letters quivered in my hand like a
flat candlestick in the grasp of a nervous man
awakened by unusual sounds in the dead of
night. I read it through, and then I read
Sophie's, and then I turned to the other, and
might have gone on reading them over and over
again alternately for an hour or two had I not
been interrupted by a modest cough in the passage.
I peered and found Cobb erect on the door-mat.

"Why, Cobb," said I, " I quite forgot that you
were waiting."

Is there any answer, sir?" he inquired.

No," said I, and I put two half-crowns into
his hand. He was humbly thankful, and then
went away. Sophie's letter ran thus : —

My dear Jack,

"I was actually talking to Florence
at our gate when the boy arrived with your note.
She had been visiting some poor person and I
had been to the library for a novel, and we met
opposite our house. I asked the boy what he
wanted, and he said he had brought a letter from
a gentleman. I looked at it and saw it was addressed
to me, which made me rather nervous,
for, upon my honour, Jack, I did not know your
handwriting. Well, inside I found your letter to

Florence, and I said, ' Now this is too bad ! here
is my cousin wanting me to be his postman
against mamma's wishes. However, Florence,'
said I, ' as you are here, there can be no harm in
handing you this,' and I gave her the letter. She
read hers whilst I read mine. I asked her what
you had written. She put the letter in her pocket
and answered, ' Oh, papa has called upon him,
and I am afraid there has been a quarrel. I shall
hear all about it when I get home.' But there
was more in your letter than that, I am sure, for
there was the prettiest colour in her cheeks, and
she could not help smiling — not disdain fully — oh,
dear no, sir ! quite the contrary, I assure you.
Then she asked me what my letter contained. I
told her to read it, as I had no secrets ; and then
I said, ' Shall you answer yours ? ' ' I don't know,'
said she ; ' he ought not to write to me.' ' Don't
leave the poor fellow in suspense, Florence,' said I.
See how he has written to me ; he is clearly
dying of love. I don't know what he has said
to you, and I don't ask; but if it deserves an
answer you ought to write, dear.' ' I couldn't send
him a letter by post,' said she. * If I write a short
note will you forward it to him ? ' After begging
her to write, I felt it would be mean to refuse her ;
so I said ' Yes,' intending to tell mamma when
the letter arrived and ask leave to send it you.
Well, it came half an hour ago, and mamma said,

You cannot help it, for Florence was with you
when Mr. Jack's letter was brought, but it must
not happen again.' So here you have your sweetheart's
letter, and since she appears willing to
correspond, the best thing you can do is to get
me to ask her how you may write to her in
future without trying to make me break the fifth
commandment.

"Yours affectionately,

Sophie.

Pes. — When are you coming to see us and tell
me all about your quarrel with Mr. Hawke ?
"What did he say — was he rude ? "

Florence's letter was shorter and sweeter.

"Dear Mr. Seymour,

Sophie has given me your letter. I
am grieved that papa should have called upon
you ; so many things are done in this world which
are quite unnecessary. You need not fear that
I shall be prejudiced by anything that can be
said. I hope I am able to form my own opinions
on people and judge for myself. But I must ask
you not to write to me again. I have already
incurred my father's serious displeasure, and am
anxious to do nothing to offend him. Hardly
anything has pained me more in all this trouble
than being separated from your cousins, whose

society I loved. However, I shall never allow
anything to estrange them and me. Whenever I
am alone and pass your uncle's house and see
Sophie or Amelia I stop and speak, and perhaps
on one of these occasions we may chance to meet.
Yours truly,

"Florence Hawke."

How this letter may strike you I cannot guess ;
me it sent slap into heaven. No wonder I gave
Cobb two half-crowns ; fifty times that money
would I have cheerfully paid to the bearer of that
ecstatic document. Sly did Sophie call her ? Oh,
shipmate, is the beautiful plant sly for blossoming ?
I admit that there was a trifling contradiction
between the passage in which she said she was
anxious to do nothing to offend her father and the
sentence in which she showed me how I might
sometimes meet her. But consider the influences
which were acting upon her. If you start the
port wheel of a paddle-boat hard ahead and reverse
the starboard wheel hard astern, there's no helm
that I know of which will make the vessel hold a
steady course. But, Lord love you ! I am not
spinning this yarn as an apology for the darling
of my heart. Love is a current that has caused
many a stronger nature than my lassie's to drag
and cut and run. And see here, boys ; if a parent
don't want his child's anchor to " come home " —

and you know what that means — let him take
care to furnish her with good holding-ground in
his own character and conduct. And so Amen
to that as a piece of briny advice, dedicated to
the memory of Alphonso Hawke, and be hanged
to him !

And now for a second logging, and much will it
surprise you, I don't doubt. It is something as
unexpected in its day as the entry of the Yankee
mate, who, being drunk, fell overboard, and when he
was fished up and put into dry clothes, staggered
to his journal and wrote, " This day the ship went
down, and all hands was drowned but me."

The entry is this : " I did not see Florence Hawke
again on dry land."

Through no fault of mine, you may heartily
believe. Day after day for a fortnight together I
would walk to my uncle's house, and when there
hang about the front grounds in the hope that
Florence would pass. I was honest enough to
explain to my uncle why I haunted his premises.
Come I must," said I, " unless you order me out ;
and, even then, the Queen's highway being as much
mine as yours, I shall buy a camp stool and sit at
your gate, for I want to see Florence Hawke, and
she told me I was likely to see her here, and I
don't know what has become of her. She has not
written to Sophie ; my cousins say they are forbidden

to write to her, and amongst you all there
is no means of getting any satisfaction."

"Jack," replied my uncle, "you may sit outside
or inside my gate and welcome ; you may perch
yourself on one of the spikes atop of it, if you
please ; and you are still more welcome to make
my house your home and to keep watch for your
beauty 7 from your old bedroom window, where, if
you'll but say the word, I'll have a telescope
mounted for you strong enough to show the dairy-maids
making green cheese in the moon. But
though I don't want to discourage you, as you know,
there seems something so fantastic in the game
you're playing, that upon my word, if I were you,
I'd chuck up the sponge and retire before all this
hoping and moping and mooning has made your
heart too battered a thing to offer to the next
peerless creature ye may happen to light on.
What's the good of going on tacking and watching
when wind and tide are against you, and when
every board you make finds you further to leeward ?
Better bring up, man, coil down, and turn in."

To all which of course I listened with irritable
disdain, thanking him for his advice, and assuring
him that I would rather miserably perish by the
hands of the hangman than abandon the only
hopes which now kept me alive.

However, before the fortnight was quite expired,
Sophie, who was my good angel, managed to get

some news for me. She had met a Miss Lloyd,
who was a friend of the Hawkes, at the house of
a Colonel Coldsteel (the people of Bristol and
Clifton will of course understand that all the names
in this book are false), and she learnt from this
young lady that Florence .had been confined to the
house by a violent cold that had threatened her
with an attack of pleurisy ; also that Mr. More-combe
had left Clifton Lodge, his ankle being
sound again ; and further, that Miss Damaris
Hawke had arrived from Australia on the preceding
evening. When Sophie told me this I immediately
exclaimed, "Is it a severe cold, do you think, oris
it her papa's cruelty ? How are we to know
that he is not slowly breaking her heart by his
severity ? "

"Well," replied Sophie, " some suspicion of that
kind came into my head, and I asked Miss Lloyd
several questions. She said that she had not seen
Florence for a week, and that when they met she
could not help thinking there was something on
her mind, for her spirits did not seem good. But
there can be no doubt that she is confined to her
house by a cold, for Mr. Hawke' s doctor attends
the Lloyds, and Miss Lloyd heard about Florence
from him."

But why don't you write ; why don't you call ;
why don't you do something, Sophie ? " I cried.
"What is Mr. Hawke to you? Florence is your

friend; if you can to Ik to her out of doors, what
should prevent you from sending her a note or a
servant to know how she is ? "

"I would do so gladly," she answered, speaking
with unaffected concern ; " but bit by bit the story
of Mr. Hawke's quarrel with papa in your lodgings
has leaked out, and mamma will not hear of our
having anything further to say to the Hawkes,
unless we meet Florence accidentally, when of
course we nay speak, she says. I am truly sorry
for her sake and for yours, Jack ; but we must
study our dignity"'

I had nothing to say. My aunt's views were
quite proper ; but it was a bitter hard time for me,
mates. I had bargained on meeting Florence
again and again, and the disappointment and the
not knowing what to do and what was to happen
made it, I say, an awful time for me. Would she
not think that if I were as devoted as I had sworn
I was, that I would move heaven and earth to learn
how she was, and to let her know that I was at
hand, loving her to distraction, and willing to cutoff
my head to please her ? But there was no
mode of communicating with her, no means of
learning how she did except from the chance gossip
of her friends. Memory, however, is a nourishment
on which the little god Cupid will sometimes
contrive to keep himself fat, if not comfortable ;
and, for my part, I had a fair stock of that diet

to live on. I almost forgot how long I had then
been in Bristol, but certainly not very many weeks
had passed since I had met Florence for the first
time ; and during those few weeks there had been
enough passages between her and me to enable
me to take many a good plunge into memory and
emerge always ardent and always resolved from
the delightful bath.

I well remember that when I heard that
Florence's Aunt Damaris had arrived, and when
I had considered a little over that piece of news,
I felt somewhat uneasy, conjecturing, of course,
that Hawke's sister would side with him in his
wishes about Florence, and that my darling might
have to contend with another oppressive influence
in this Australian spinster. But on the whole
I do not know that thoughts of Aunt Damaris
troubled me much. Of Florence's relations I
can only recollect thinking of one with constant
anxiety, and that was old Hawke. He had not,
it is true, the power of preventing his daughter
from running away with me if she had a mind to
marry me in that fashion ; but whilst she remained
too loyal to her home to forsake it without her
father's consent, she and I were at the old chap's
mercy, for he had really nothing to do to effectually
separate us but to carry her abroad and go on
journeying about with her until he should reckon
he had travelled me out of his sphere altogether

may tell you that the fear that he would act in
this way haunted rue incessantly, and made me a
good deal more cautious than my temper would
otherwise have suffered me to behave. I know
very well that I would again and again have
defiantly rung the bell of Clifton Lodge and asked
after Florence ; I would have hung about the
house; I would have spared no extraordinary pains
and expense to communicate by letter with the
darling of my heart had I been sufficiently well-to-do
to have followed in the wake of old Hawke allover
the world — that is, if I ended in driving him
out of Clifton. But it was very certain that if
Alphonso carried his daughter away from England,
I should be 'sewed up,' as Jack says, for want of
funds to stick to his skirts. What sort of a pursuit
of them through Europe should I have been able
to make on something less than five pounds a
week? Many a long talk would I have on this
subject with Sophie and Amelia, who always tried
to persuade me that Mr. Hawke was not a man
to leave his home and wander about the Continent
with his daughter merely to shake off a young
fellow whose attentions were objectionable ; but
I was not so sure. I would say, " Yes, but if
Mr. Hawke has set his heart on splicing Florence
to Morecombe, and if Florence is unmistakably
showing by her manner that she has a liking forme,
and growing low-spirited and so forth, then in

my opinion he is just the sort of man to take
strong measures to end (as he might hope) a
business that is putting a stop to his queer
ambition. Other fathers have done stranger and
more troublesome things than taking their daughters
away for a year or two in order to warp the girls
clear of the men who are not wanted."

Ay, but Jack," I remember Amelia answering,
do you think that Mr. Hawke attaches all the
significance you think he does to your admiration
for Florence ? "

"Yes, I do," said I. "I told him I wanted to
marry his daughter, and I suppose he knows what
that means."

"And do you suppose, Amelia," said Sophie,
always at my side fighting for me, " that Florence
has not given her papa to understand that she is
fond of Jack ? If he thought that Jack's admiration
did not signify, why should he have called at
his lodgings and requested him to discontinue
admiring Florence and leave Bristol ? "

Amelia had no reply to make to this ; but she
still declared that in her opinion Mr. Hawke was
not so frightened of me as to go abroad with his
daughter and leave his home for the length of time
that would be needful to make such a measure as
that of use.

"I earnestly hope he is not," said I; " but we
shall see."

Well, the days rolled on, and never once did I
set eyes on Florence nor hear of her. Utterly
disheartened, I abandoned the punctual visit I had
made to my uncle's house in the hope of finding
her talking to my cousins. Nor did I ever encounter
her in the streets, though several times
I met the Hawkes' carriage, sometimes occupied
by Hawke and Emily, sometimes by Emily and
a friend, and on the last occasion by an elderly
lady with a sharp face and a wide brown hat,
whom I privately suspected to be Aunt Damns,
though she was rattled past too quickly to enable
me to tell more than her countenance was of
a severe and hatchet-like aspect. Over and over
again would I ask Sophie or Amelia, and very
often my uncle, if there was any news of Florence.
They would be one day able to inform me that she
was still in Clifton, another day that somebody had
said she was better, later on that somebody had
said she was quite well, that Miss Jones had met
her with her aunt at a circulating library, that
Dr. Thompson was at a dinner party at Clifton
Lodge and said that Florence was present and
looked lovely, and so on; and once my aunt was
sure that Florence was with her father in then carriage,
but she would not look, as she did not want
to catch Mr. Hawke's eye or appear to see him.

Of course whatever there was of mystery in
Florence's withdrawal from us was wholly due to

my impatience ; for I would forget to consider that
a week in those days seemed as long as a year, and
that for some time she had been indisposed and
confined to the house. But I who was half crazy
to see her, immoderately jealous to behold her
sweet face that I might interpret from it some sign
of thought, some hint of expression favourable to
my passionate wishes, found a week passed without
seeing her as long, as I have said, as a year, and
naturally fell into many harassing and distracting
conceits respecting her.

It is all very well," I said to Sophie, " for Miss
Jones and Mr. Robinson and Dr. Thompson and
the rest of them to tell you that she drives and
walks and dines and is cured of her cold ; but how
the deuce is it I never see her ? How is it you
don't meet her ? Does she take another road when
she calls upon her poor families ? Why did she
write that she hoped we should meet when she
passed your house and caught sight of you, if
she meant nothing by it ? "

Whereupon Sophie with much good sense explained
that in all probability Florence had not
felt well enough to call upon her poor families, and
consequently had had no occasion to pass along the
road in which my uncle's house stood ; also that,
for anything we could tell, her papa had prohibited
her from walking alone, "in which case, Jack,"
said she, "it would be better not to meet; for if

she should he with Emily or Mr. Hawke we should
have to pass her, which would he very painful and
embarrassing to her and us ; and if she were with
her aunt we might really risk being insulted by
stopping to shake hands, for depend upon it
Mr. Hawke has poisoned his sister's mind against
us all, so that there is no telling how Aunt Damaris
might behave were we to meet."

However, about ten days or a fortnight after the
arrival of Aunt Damaris — it is convenient to make
the movements of that old lady a scoring-peg in
these recollections — I had been dining with my
uncle, and was lingering with the others over the
dessert, when Cobb, the man-servant, entered with
a letter, which he gave to Sophie. She immediately
exclaimed : " It is from Florence ! " and read it.
You may conceive that I watched her fat face
attentively.

"Well," cried my uncle, "what does Jack's
Delight say ? Any loving messages ? Does she
send me a kiss ? "

Don't be ridiculous, Charles ! " exclaimed my
aunt.

She is going to Scotland," said Sophie.

What ! ", I shouted ; and I let drop the dessert
knife and fork I was plying, and fell back in my
chair.

Don't faint, Jack ! " bawled my uncle.
Amelia, give your cousin a glass of brandy."

What is she going to do in Scotland, Sophie ? "
I asked in a weak voice.

Head the letter aloud, Sophie," said my uncle.
Sing it out, my love. We're all related here, and
there are no secrets. Now then."

Whereupon Sophie read as follows : —

"Deadest Sophie,

"I am so very sorry to have been able
to see nothing of you of late. No doubt you know
that I was confined to the house for a week with
a violent cold, which at one time the doctor was
afraid might lead to an attack of pleurisy, as I
suffered a great deal from pain in the side.
However, I am now quite well. Aunt Damaris is
.with us, and she has taken me under her wing.
Papa is very glad to have her. Her visit will last
about a month or six weeks, and she has made the
voyage merely for her health and for the sake of
seeing us. I am writing chiefly to let you know
that Aunt Damaris, papa, Emily, and I are going
to Scotland tomorrow, though how long we shall
be away I do not know, nor can I tell you yet the
place we shall stay at, as nothing will be arranged
until we have arrived in Edinburgh. At all events,
you will know in what part of the world I am.
Papa says the excursion is necessary for my
health, and it is to be made for me alone. But
indeed I am quite well, and do not feel to need any

change, and am very sorry to leave Clifton, even
for a short time. If I can manage to write to you
from Scotland, I will. Meanwhile accept my dear
love, and remember me most affectionately to your
papa and mamma and Amelia.

"Yours sincerely,

Florence Hawke.

Do not forget to remember me to your cousin
Jack. Is he still at Bristol, and will he remain
there now, do you suppose ?"

That's all*' said Sophie ; and she put the
letter into the envelope and passed it to me.

A woman's meaning is always reserved for her
postscripts," observed my uncle. " Florence's love
to you, Sophie, and her affectionate remembrance
to us will not do. Her letter is meant for Jack,
and for nobody else."

'* And that is why I have given it to Jack,"
Sophie.

There can be no doubt," said my aunt,
"judging from her allusion to Miss Damaris
Hawke, that that lady is acting as Florence's
duenna."

"I am sure of it!" exclaimed Amelia. " My
belief is that Mr. Hawke has refused to allow her
to walk alone. You will find that her aunt has
always accompanied her since she has been well
enough to leave the house."

V.'L. I. E

How neatly the girl puts it," said my uncle.
' Aunt Damaris has taken me under her wing.'
The sentence tells an immense story — long arguments,
a few shindies, a mass of abuse of us,
scorn and hate of Jack yonder, and, as a result,
Aunt Damaris with that boy's sweetheart under
her lean arm ! But cheer up, Jack — Aunt Damaris'
visit is only to last six weeks."

I had been reading Florence's letter, and now
put it in my pocket as my uncle addressed me. I
was foolishly depressed, and felt myself haggard
and long-faced. "I told you, Sophie," said I,
that Mr. Hawke would carry Florence away.
This is but the first step."

The first step to what ? " my uncle asked.
"Why, to a long tour abroad in the hope of
curing Florence of her liking for me."

I quite agree with you," said my aunt ; " and
if Mr. Hawke decides upon leaving England, I
should never be surprised to hear that young
Mr. Morecombe has accompanied him and his
daughter."

Well, if he goes he can't take his house with
him," said my uncle ; " he is bound to come back
sooner or later ; so that all you have to do, Jack,
is to lay in a good stock of tobacco and wait here
for your friends to heave in sight."

Fancy Jack being the first to meet them at
the railway station on their return after an absence

of three or four years," said Amelia, laughing.
How pleased Mr. Hawke would be to see him ! "

There's nothing funny that I can see,"
exclaimed Sophie, looking at me sympathetically.
The meaning of it to you, Jack, is that Florence
is in love with you, and that her papa thinks he
can change her mind by changing the scene. He
is very much mistaken ; and so long as you can
feel that she is faithful it ought to be all the same
whether she is in Clifton or Scotland."

Sophie, it is really no business of ours, my
love," said her mother mildly but significantly.
*ewe all wish Mr. Jack every success in his difficult
courtship ; but under the circumstances there
must be some little impropriety in your identifying
yourself with it too zealously."

I love Florence and I love my cousin, mamma,"
said Sophie, "and I do not like to see them unhappy."


I jumped from my chair, ran round the table,
and kissed her. It was the first kiss I had ever
given the dear girl, and a heartier smack of the lips
was never administered. "It is the only way in
which I can thank you for your speech, my darling,"
said I ; and I returned to my chair, leaving Sophie
blushing, Amelia rather pale, my aunt alarmed,
and my uncle grinning from ear to ear.

Chapter XIV.

I RETURN TO LONDON.

Well, sure enough, Florence was carried off to Scotland
next day by her papa and Aunt Damaris ; with
them went Emily, and Clifton Lodge was left in
charge of the butler and the house-keeper. Never
did I pass such a night as that which preceded my
darling's departure. Sleep ! Bless your heart alive r
mates, never in an all-night job at sea, bending
brand-new canvas, amid a whirling darkness of
spume and vapour, in the room of the shreds which
streamed from hanks and jackstays and boltropes,
reducing sail bit by bit, heaving to, standing by
for those quarter-deck yells which were never long
in coming, was I wider awake. Over and over
again I made up my mind to follow her next day —
to hang about the station until she and the others
arrived, and then jump into the train with them ;
and I only succeeded in dissuading myself from
that suicidal project by vowing that I would be up
and away for the North the instant Sophie was-able

to tell me in what part of Scotland old Hawke
had come to a stand. I must have lighted and
extinguished my candle a dozen times that night,
for I would bundle out of the sheets and walk about
the bedroom, reading Florence's letter to Sophie
and looking at her likeness, and then roll into bed
again and put out the light in the hope of falling
asleep, and afterwards turn to and have another
scratch at the lucifer box to satisfy some doubt by
taking a fresh squint at the letter, and so on and
so on until the sun arose and the blessed dockyards
chirped.

The only crumb of comfort I could find lay in
what my uncle had suggested — that the letter to
Sophie was really meant for me. I was in her
thoughts when she wrote, as the postscript proved.
Me it was for whom the news of her going to Scotland
was intended. That reference to her being
under Aunt Damaris' wing was to let me know why
she had given me no chance of seeing her. And
what was the postscript but like asking me if I
meant to forget her because her papa was taking
her away ? Forget her ! as often as I read that
sweet Pes. so often would I kiss her likeness; and I
desire here to make my compliments to the French
gentleman who photographed her on the insensibility
of his printing, for had the portrait been an
peaceable thing I was bound to have kissed away
every trace of my pet's face and figure, ay, as

completely as a shower of rain takes the curl out
of a feather.

But, oh ! in spite of her letter, in spite of the
encouragement I found in it, the prospect of her
absence, the cooling effect that might be produced
in her by my being out of sight, the possibility of
young Morecombe forming one of the party, the
result of the formidable influence which would now
be exerted by the combined powers of Alphonso
and Damaris Hawke, rendered contemplation
absolutely hideous. I was harassed by a misgiving
as heavy as a presentiment that this was
but the first of old Hawke's steps, and that the next
would carry him and Florence out of the United
Kingdom, leagues beyond the reach of my slender
purse. No doubt in time the old fellow would return
and bring his daughter with him ; but suppose More-combe
accompanied them, and Florence, sick of
travelling and worried by her aunt and papa,
consented to marry him ; or suppose in their
journeys they met some agreeable young man
who'd shove me overboard out of Florence's heart ;
or suppose that travel enlarged her mind to such
an extent as to make her admit to her father that
though she declined to marry Morecombe she now
saw that he was right in his notion that a young
seafaring chap on a small income, without prospects
or occupation, was not after all quite upto
the mark as a match for a young lady who was
a beauty and would have a fortune ?

But it is a mistake to suppose. Half the misery
of life lies in it. They have a good saying at sea :
il Suppose your aunt had whiskers, what a very rum
uncle she would make ! "

Well, my lads, the Hawke family went away to
Scotland that day I knew they were gone by
taking a walk in the afternoon past Clifton Lodge,
and observing that the blinds were down as though
somebody lay dead in the house.

However, before a week had gone by I discovered,
now that Florence was three or four hundred miles
distant, that nry Bristol lodgings were altogether
too small and dull to be tolerable. Mrs. Chump
became an eyesore; the prospect over the wa}-
a mortification every time I looked out of window.
I was tired of Bristol city, and though I could have
spent another month or two very happily at my
uncle's house, where the evenings were always
cheerful and the days full of the business of driving
and riding and dining, and so forth, yet as I did
not choose to return, heartily welcome as I knew 1
should be, I made up my mind to go to London and
await news of Florence from Sophie ; for in London
I could make time fly faster than ever I could
drive it in the country, and all that I desired now
was to get rid of the weeks during which Florence
was to be absent from Clifton. I announced my
intention to my relatives on an occasion when we
were all together. They tried hard to persuade me

to return to tern, but I was firm, I was conscientious,
I was highly moral. No ! it was a question
of delicacy : I desired that Mr. Hawke might
fully understand that my aunt and family had no
share in the courtship I had undertaken : and with
many thanks therefore I declined to be their guest.

I won't call you a swab again, Jack, because
you didn't like it before," said my uncle, "but if I
knew of another word to express the same thing,
dash my wig if I wouldn't bestow it upon you."

My aunt and Sophie, however, came to my
rescue, particularly my aunt, who said that though
she was very sorry I refused to stay with them, yet
she thoroughly respected the feelings which made
me decline.

And how long d'ye mean to stop in London ? "
said my uncle.

I looked at Sophie and answered, " It will
depend."

What will Florence say when she returns and
finds that her faithful shepherd has given up watching
the landscape which has been sanctified by the
feet of his lovely Chloe ? " asked Amelia.

I gave her a nod and a smile, as much to say,
Don't trouble yourself : I'll arrange for all that."

Jack knows his own business," said my uncle ;
we have no right to interrogate him, more especially
since we have all been prohibited from having
a finger in his pie," looking at his wife.

And so the matter ended, so far as this particular
passage was concerned : though that same evening,
being alone with Sophie, I had a long talk with her,
in which I gave her all my reasons for not stopping
at her house, and then went on to explain that my
wits were growing rusty in the Bristol lodgings,
which were horribly dull, and that a return to
London would freshen me up and enable me to
apply myself with livelier spirits, if not with a
sturdier resolution, to the job of winning Florence
Hawke.

M3 7 programme then is this, Jack, is it ? " said
she ; "if Florence writes to me from Scotland I am
to answer her letter, and to speak of you in it."

"Yes."

What shall I say about you ? "

All that you like— all that I feel, Sophie. Tell
her that I grew dull in lodgings, that I have
returned to London to recruit my spirits, and to
kill the horribly tedious time which her absence
makes life to be, but that I shall come to Bristol
by the first train that follows your letter in which
you inform me she has arrived."

•• Very well," said Sophie ; " mamma can't object,
for it is really only newt, and one must say something
when one writes a letter. But suppose my
epistle should fall into Mr. Hawke's hands ? "

There's a risk in everything," I replied ; "we
must take our chance. If Florence wishes to hear

from you — in the hope of hearing about me — I
dare say she will manage to receive the letter and
keep it to herself."

"Well, we'll see first whether she writes, and I
can then decide how to act by what she says,"
exclaimed Sophie. "And what else must I do '?"

Keep a look-out for my darling — get any news
that you can lay hold of, and forward it to me
slap ! "

On which you will come to Bristol ? "

"Yes."

To your present lodgings ? "

"Well, I don't know: I'll see about that,"
said I.

"And what is your policy afterwards?" said
Sophie.

Why," cried I, "to meet her as often as I canto
get her to own that she loves me, to hang on to
her with my very eyelashes sooner than let go, and
and — yes, Sophie," said I, grasping her arm, " if
her father refuses his sanction, if she will consent,
to— to "

"What!" whispered Sophie, looking thrilled:
"not an elopement ? "

A secret marriage," I exclaimed. " Why not ;
would it be the first that had ever taken place ?
If it is to be pull devil pull baker between Hawke
and me, the weakest must be dragged, i" don't
want anything clandestine. Much as I hate

marriage ceremonies, with their favours, speeches,
dresses, and blubbering, I'd rather go through
fifty weddings with my sweetheart than bolt with
her. But if Florence loves me and I love her, and
we're resolved to have each other and Hawke won't
hear of it, what's the right step ? Yield to the old
man ? Never ! " cried I, brandishing my fist.

Sophie's fat face was full of emotion. " Upon
my word, Jack," she exclaimed, " I believe you'll
end in making a real romance of your love. What
desperate ideas you have ! I'm sure Florence ought
to feel very much flattered."

But let me coil these lengths of plans down, and
hang them over the pin they belong to out of the
road, for when I come to think how they, like a
good many other schemes I have formed in my
life, warped me not an inch forward, though all the
beef that was in me I applied to the capstan bar as
I shouted, I feel ashamed to write them. I want
to put nothing but the truth into these lodgings,
and arrangements that never came to anything
somehow don't strike me as facts. You might as
well describe dreams or reveries as plans from
which as little emerged as would come from an
empty eggshell under a sitting fowl. And these,
my hearties, are the unpleasantness parts a man can
light upon whilst spinning the yarn of his own
doings ; for nothing proves to him more shrewdly
how big a fool he has been in his day, than his

having to confess to a foresight which was about as
perceptive as if he had tied his head up in a bag.
How bigwigs like chancellors and statesmen who
want posterity to respect them for their wisdom can
have the courage to sit down and write about their
lives, hang me if I can imagine ; unless, indeed,
they make a lie of their yarns by omitting whatever
would show that at bottom they were not very
much wiser than you or me. But avast now !
we've had enough of philosophising, as an old
shipmate of mine called all ideas which oblige
a man to scratch the back of his head and heave-to
for words.

It was about a week after Florence had gone to
Scotland that I went away to London. Mrs.
Chump was sorry to lose me. I dare say she
would have risked her salvation to the extent of
saying I was out when I was in had I agreed to
stop on those terms. But her lodgings were too
small; there was no kind of figure to be cut in
them ; they were as dull as a forehead ; and so I
gave them up for good, having resolved to seek
bigger and better-looking rooms when I returned.
I pass over the leave-taking from my relations. I
wanted to hand over the balance of the fifty pounds
my uncle had given me, but the moment I opened
my mouth on that subject he fell into a passion,
asked me what I took him to be, eyed me from
head to foot, and inquired in a cold voice whether I

imposing upon him when I said I had been to
sea, since no sailor man would treat a relation so
ill as to offer to return a gift. " That sort of thing,"
said he, "only happens between sweethearts.
When Florence has become thick enough with you
to receive your gewgaws, then when you and she
quarrel and she sends your Brummagem stuff back,
you may pocket it — there's no insult. But to offer
to return a gift — not a loan — but a gift to a gentleman
you're on good terms with — roast me, if you
don't deserve to be ropes-ended."

So I kept the money, nor can I conscientiously
say that it went against my grain to do so ; for
after all, why shouldn't a well-to-do uncle tip his
nephew ? and what's fifty pounds ? Why, I could
spend twice that money in a week : and then, faith,
have little enough to keep by me in memory of it.

I was pleased to observe that my aunt did not
much like saying good-bye to me. I dare say she
thought that, on the whole, she had not acted very
maternally towards the motherless shell-back who
had given his heart to a beauty and had no friend,
if he had not his relations, to say a word for him
or give him a hand. She held on to me when we
bade each other farewell, said a hundred kind
things, and almost gave me to understand that if 1
went away counting upon Sophie she was not disposed
to baulk my hopes. My cousins accompanied
me to the station, and I had a confidential chat with

Sophie on the platform, whilst Amelia stood a little
apart in respectful recognition of the mission her
kind, affectionate, loyal sister had made her own.

"You shall hear without fail," said she, "the
moment I get the news of Florence's return."

"And you will write her a letter all about me
when you hear from her, and you'll send me her
letter, Sophie ? And I wish that you would look
about at your leisure for some comfortable rooms,
nearer to Clifton Lodge than my lodgings were . . ."
And I was mumbling on when the guard interrupted
me by a loud " Jump in, please, sir, if you're going."
God bless you, Sophie ; I shall never forget what
you have done and are doing. We shall meet again
soon. Good-bye, Amelia ; " and in a few minutes
Bristol city was astern of me.

Chapter XV.

A TERRIBLE BLOW.

As well as I can remember, I had been about two
months absent from London when I returned to it ;
though when I entered my rooms and looked about
me and thought of the day when my uncle drove up
and introduced himself and gave me that invitation
to Clifton which had ruined my peace of mind, ay,
as completely as if I had committed a forgery or
set fire to a church, it seemed that a year, and a
very long one too, had elapsed since then. But I
had not been in town a couple of days before I discovered
that I should have enjoyed an easier mind
had I stopped in Bristol. I had hoped to find the
time bowl along; I reckoned upon getting some
amusement out of my old town habits, and returning
to my courtship the fresher for the change.
But I mistook. London I found so insipid that a
positive loathing for it came over me. My club was
a bore, and the gossip of the men there, their cheap
talk about the new actress, Jenkins' last novel, the

quarrel between the two Q.C.'s, and the like impertinence,
flat, flatulent, and rank. The tragedian I
had formerly considered a great artist I found now
to be a poor mouthing impostor, a sham made up
of hair and gasps, and I remember wishing I had
him at sea when his yawning drove me away before
the end of the first act.

The truth is, I ought to have stopped at Bristol.
In London I was peevish, irritable, moody ; nothing-was
congenial ; there was no one whose arm I could
take and pour out my heart to ; I felt the solitude
described by Byron when he speaks of a man being
alone in crowds, and again and again called myself
an ass for not sticking to the country where I
could have gone on musing over fell and flood. At
Bristol I had Sophie ; there was Clifton Lodge to
look at ; there were spots full of lovely memories.
But London ! it was all shoving and elbowing in
the streets, not even a shop window that I could
fix upon as having been consecrated by Florence's
gaze, and I had nothing but her adorable likeness
to console me. However, since I had come to
London I made up my mind to stop until I should
hear of my darling's arrival at Bristol, and I did
not want my relations to think me capricious and
unstable by returning and so making myself out as
not knowing what to be at. Meanwhile I wrote to
Sophie pretty nearly every other day, venting
myself in such a style that I have no doubt, were I

now to see my letters to her, I should feel very
heartily ashamed of myself. She always answered
me punctually, and somehow always managed to
make out a long letter, though the dear girl had
very little news to give me ; but her sympathy was
delightful, and she contrived to apologize for
Florence not writing to her from Scotland, so artfully
— she invented so many able excuses for my
sweetheart's silence — that for a pretty good spell of
time I do not recollect very keenly feeling the disappointment
of opening her letters and finding no
second inclosure. She might be ill, Sophie would
suggest ; or perhaps she had made up her mind
not to write until she could see her way to receive
a reply unknown to her papa, who, of course, was
not likely to sanction any correspondence between
her and the Miss Seymours ; or she might be
under a kind of restraint through Aunt Damaris'
vigilance.

Well, Sophie's excuses for Florence satisfied meas
I have said, for a time ; but when letter after
letter arrived from my cousin without a word from
my darling, my soul grew very grievously worried.
Her waiting " in order to see her way to receive a
reply unknown to her papa " would not do ; it did
not satisfy me. She might write, anyway ; and if
she could not get Sophie's answer without the risk
of her father plumping upon it, then let her request
my cousin not to address a letter to her. Was

VOL. I. X

Aunt Damans prevailing ? Was young Morecombe
with her, and gathering headway ? Was absence,
instead of making the heart grow fonder, doing the
other thing ? I arrived at such a pass that I would
sometimes say to myself, " Jack, you fool, it is all
up. Your dream is over, my lad. This is your
first love affair — you see what it has come to. The
girl was never in earnest. She enjoyed your being
so and helped you to sink, because all women like
admiration, and there's no flattery like a man's
love. That's real ; words may mean anything, but
love's a fact, something to lean against, something
to catch hold of. What will you do uow ?" I write
light-heartedly of that time ; but as a bit of living
experience it did this for me : it filled me for the
rest of my life with compassion for man or woman
who loves honestly and is deceived. There are
many human troubles over which the world makes
merry, and disappointed love is among them ; for
that, perhaps, we have to thank the old comedy
writers and our latter-day cynics, who are somewhat
sensitive in their way, too, though very bitter ;
but depend upon it, mates, a young, generous,
affectionate heart deceived in its first love so suffers
as to be a mournful sight. Other loves may follow,
the first wound may be healed, the scar effaced, but
whilst that wound is fresh the torment is sharp
enough to make even a monkey who shall witness it
pensive ; and I would as soon now think of jeering

at the nipping and blasting of the first pure bud
put forth by human affection as of ridiculing a
person praying, or laughing at a mother weeping
over her dead first-born.

However, I had not to wait over long before
coming to an answer to my question, What will you
do now ? for one morning — and this made the time
very nearly a month since Florence Hawke had
gone to Scotland — there came a letter from Sophie,
the bulkiest I had ever had from her, and when I
opened it I found four pages of crossed handwriting
from Florence, with half a dozen of lines from my
cousin, who struck so dismal a note in the very
little she said that I am able to recall every syllable
of it from the memory of the consternation it raised
in me. " My poor dear Jack," she began — think of
that: poof dear Jack ! — " it is with deep sorrow I
send you Florence's letter. I fear it will greatly
affect you, because nobody knows so well as I how
fond you are of her. Yet you would not forgive me
if I did not keep my promise to forward any letter
she should write. You must cheer up and try to
look this thing bravely in the face, and if Florence
and you are fated not to come together, why, then,
what can you do but console yourself by remembering
that there are as good fish left in the sea as
ever came out of it ? Yours affectionately, Sophie
Savour."

Lads, I'll not attempt to describe my feeling

when I read this. I was all of a tremble, as old
chimney hags say. I rushed to the conclusion that
my darling had been urged to accept Mr. Morecombe,
and was going to be married to him in due course ;
and the groan that echoed through Sophie's letter
resounded down to the very bottom of my soul. I
took up Florence's closely-written sheet, and fell to
spelling it over with ashen lips. But as I made my
way into the network of words — why will girls cross-their
letters ; is not paper cheap enough ? — a
sensation very different from the one first excited
was produced in me. It was a kind of despair, too,
but of the nature of a pure balsam to my heart
after the desperate throb that had first wrenched it.
The letter was addressed to Sophie and dated at
Ducked, and my darling began by explaining that
she had deferred writing to Sophie until she was
able to communicate something positive. "We
have been here a fortnight," wrote she, "and during
that time I have watched matters gradually shaping
themselves to the point we have arrived at, and
about which I am at last able to write definitely."
I gathered that there had been a good many
scenes." Aunt Damaris had taken her in hand
and remonstrated with her for rejecting Mr.
Morecombe. The young fellow called upon them
in London, but did not accompany them to
the North. What Aunt Damaris saw of him
delighted her. She was lost in amazement

that Florence could refuse so handsome, so
well-bred, so aristocratic a youth. "I will not
repeat," my adorable girl wrote, " the arguments
she and papa have used to try and make
me accept a person I never could like. Between
them they have made me truly unhappy. Indeed,
papa seems quite to have lost control over his
temper, and never neglects a chance to speak
insultingly of your cousin, though I have solemnly
declared to him that Mr. Jack Seymour has had
no more to do with my refusing Mr. Morecombe
than he had with the eclipse of the moon that took
place last month. The truth is, dear Sophie,
having made me low-spirited and unhappy by
incessantly worrying me about Mr. Morecombe,
papa and Aunt Damaris have at last persuaded
themselves that I am pining with secret love, and
what do you suppose they have decided on ? I am
to accompany Aunt Damaris to Sydney next month !
She sails on the 28th in the Strathmor.e, the ship
she came in, so that I have three weeks before mein
which to return to Clifton Lodge, make arrangements
for the voyage, and bid you all good-bye.
What will you say to this ? and do you ask what I
think ? Well, dear, I cannot pretend that I am
sorry. I am not very happy just now at home.
Papa does not, I am sure, mean all he says, but he
is crazy about Mr. Morecombe, and I may tell you
in strict confidence he is afraid of your cousin — how

stupid men are ! — and I Lave to thank Aunt
Damans for proposing this voyage, which is of
course planned with the idea of clearing my mind
and making it fit to receive the lovely image of
Mr. Morecombe. I shall regret to leave Clifton and
my friends, but I do not dislike the idea of the
voyage; It will be a treat to me to see dear old
Sydney again, and I am never happier than when
on the broad ocean. How long I shall be away it
is quite impossible to guess ; eighteen months or
two years, I dare say." There was a great deal
more in her letter than this, but all that concerns
my yarn I have given.

Well, as I have said, the truth came as a kind of
relief to me after the fears which Sophie's note had
excited. I had made up my mind to hear that she
was going to be married to Mr. Morecombe ; and so
passionately did I love her that had that been the
news I do believe it would have affected me as much
as if I had heard that she was dying. But though
the first movement of my mind was comparatively
one of pleasure, when I read the letter and found
that let her relatives worry and bully her as much
as they pleased they could not persuade her to take
Mr. Morecombe, yet when ray mind received the
full meaning of her father's intention to send
her to the other end of the world, I felt positively
crushed, and sat like a fool staring at the letter in
my hand, unable to form any ideas and incapable

of understanding more than that some thousands of
miles of ocean were to be put between my darling
and me, and that many a long month must pass
before we should see each other, if indeed we ever
again met. As you know, I had for some time
feared that a great deal of what would prove bad tome
was to happen. I had calculated upon her
father carrying her out of England and roaming
with her about Europe until, as I have before said,
he might flatter himself he had travelled me clean
out of her sphere and educated her into a proper
conception of the merits of the youth he wanted her
to marry; but never had I reckoned upon his
sending her to Australia — that is to say the other
side of the globe — right away past the Cape of Good
Hope and across the Southern Ocean ! And yet
now that this thing was settled upon, I saw that it
was more likely he would send his daughter to her
native land along with her aunt, than turn to and
make a martyr of himself by hauling her about
Spain and France and such countries. Australia
sounds a long way off, but even as a sailing voyage it
is no serious business, and if Hawke supposed that
1 was at the bottom of his daughter's refusal of
Mr. Moreconibe, if he considered that I had made
her fond of me, and that the only chance he had to
bring her into his way of thinking was to put the
horizon between her and me, then 3*011 can't say ho
was ill-advised in seizing the opportunity of his

sister's return to Sydney to despatch his daughter
with her to that place.

But as for me — what was now to do, mates ?
For a whole hour, maybe, I sat glaring at Florence's
letter ; and then something resembling my senses
coming to me, I wrote four or five pages to Sophie
in which I declared that my heart was broken, that
I had a dreadful presentiment upon me that
Florence and I were never to meet again, that as to
her one day returning, why, if I found three or four
weeks insupportable without the prospect of meeting
her, how was I to endure her absence for two years
with the certainty of being hopelessly forgotten by
her long before she returned ! In short my letter
came very near to being a piece of delirium ; nevertheless
it did me good to write it, and I took care
before sealing the envelope to tell Sophie to endeavour
to communicate what I had said to Florence,
that she might know what a miserable bruised
worm she would leave wriggling on Britannia's soil
behind her when she sailed.

CHAPTER Xii.

A GRAND IDEA.

I do not know at what hour of that blessed day the
glimmer of the notion that came to grow into a
determined scheme might have been visible upon
my mind; I reckon it would be in the evening.
But be this as it may, I was sitting in my lodging
with Florence's letter in my hand, when on a sudden
I found myself thinking, " Stratford — Stratford
why, that's the name of one of the ships belonging
to the employ I was in. She will be an Australian
liner too ; " and I took up a daily newspaper and
ran down the shipping advertisements, and after a
little lighted upon this :

For Sydney direct, taking passengers at through
rates to other ports in Australia and New r Zealand,
for which a separate arrangement must be made,
the magnificent composite clipper ship Stratford ,
100, a 1, 1,381 tons register, Daniel Thompson,
Commander; lying for inspection in the East India
Docks. This favourite regular trading vessel is one

of the fastest ships in the Australian trade. Her
cabins are elegantly fitted and supplied with every
convenience, including beds and bedding. She will
carry a surgeon. For further particulars apply to
Duncan, Golightly, el' Co., Fenchurch Street,
London''

This then was the Stratford, sister ship to the
Portia, my last vessel, owned by my late employers
; and unless there was more than one man
of the same name in that service she was commanded
by an old shipmate of mine, Daniel
Thompson, who had been second mate of the
Montrose when I was in her as third. Now ever
since I had given up the sea as a profession my
thoughts and tastes had held so steadily landwards
that I don't remember I had once gone so far as
even to glance at the shipping advertisements in
search of a familiar name, whilst during the three
years I had been ashore I was never nearer to
the region where the docks of the port of London
lie than Leadenhall Street. Nor (perhaps because
1 stuck tenaciously to the west end of the town) had
I in all that time crossed the path of a former shipmate.
Stay ! three months after I had been ashore
I met a third mate I knew, slightly disguised in
liquor, in Waterloo Place. He would have lovingly
embraced me, but I dodged his arms and sent him
off happy with the loan of half a sovereign, which
he said would be all the money he had in the-world;

but he was the only Bailor-man of my

acquaintance I had encountered since I left the
sea.

This long severance from ni* old life made it
seem a great way off, and when I read the name
of Stratford and Daniel Thompson, memories
which appeared to belong to another world rose
up, and I fell a-musing whilst, without the least
presentiment of what was to come from this new
train of thought, I raked about in the dust of my
mind for recollections and constructed a picture
with them of my seafaring days. There are a
great man* miracles in this world, from the
animalcule you can't see down to the man so
constituted by nature as to be able to raise his
foot to a woman ; but there is nothing in that line
to beat the mechanism of thinking; the way in
which the imagination catches hold of the crank
of the mind and turns it, bringing up idea after
idea, all in a beautiful and logical procession,
just as you may see a steam-winch rattling up
notions " from the hold of a ship at a discharging
berth. The sight of that advertisement
about the Stratford, and my old shipmate Dan
Thompson, sent me to sea again right out of hand,
and though I was within a pistol-shot of Regent
Street, with the roar of rolling omnibuses and cabs
in the air, and the smell of London strong in my
nostrils, I was as much upon the ocean as I sat in

my armchair with the newspaper on my knee
and my eyes fixed upon the wall, as though the
Pacific Ocean was around me and the ship eighty
days out. I had boarded the Stratkmore in Sydney
Bay, and as she was built by the firm who had
turned out the Portia and was constructed on the
same lines, was of the same measurement as that
vessel and fitted exactly like her, why, you may
suppose when I put myself upon her poop in fancy,
I saw her as clear as a man might figure the wife
of his bosom by recalling her appearance. One
thought led to another. I pictured Florence
aboard, Captain Thompson mightily taken by her
beauty, and giving her his arm for a walk to windward
whenever there was seaway enough to make
such gallantry reasonable ; then the bright picture
of the cuddy as I would remember it on fine days
came up, with its table gleam with damask and
glass, stewards wandering around it, a pleasant
company of ladies and gentlemen eating and drinking,
and I figured Florence among them, and anon
rose the fancy of the breathless tropical evening,
the moon in the south, the dew like diamond dust
upon the rails and skylights, and Florence standing
alone, looking away into the infinite leagues of
gloom.

Now it was at this, or at some point of my
reflections very near to it, when the sense of her
going away and the conception of the immeasurable

miles which would separate her from me when she
had sailed, had cut into my heart like a knife,
bringing down a whole flood of those internal tears
which men who have never wept since they were
in petticoats have shed again and again at times
of misery in their lives — at this point of my
reverie, I say, an idea flashed upon me that
caught my breath like a blow in the side ; an
extraordinary exultation seemed to swell my head
to four times its proper dimensions. Do you smile
at that, mates ? Well, next time you are rendered
hysterically joyful, note the sensation in your head
and hair. And in a trice I had sprung out of niy
chair and was walking about the room as hard as
my legs would can me, my cheeks burning with
the sudden excitement.

And what do you suppose it was that had put
these heels to my spirits and was working in me
like a pint of proof rum ? Nothing more than the
simple question asked by some faculty inside me
['ni willing to call divine : Why don't yon go
with Flow nee ' It was a revelation, a grand
possibility, and as easy to do as calling a cab
and driving to a railway station. How was it that
the idea did not instantly occur to me when I read
Florence's letter ? I'm sure I cannot tell you. I
was rendered maudlin and muddy by the news, I
suppose, and could only see out of one eye. But
now that the notion had come to me it was as

simple to understand as boxing the compass, and
when I had worked off my delirium by bowling
about the room, I lighted a pipe and sat down to
trim the noble scheme, and to set the whole matter
square and shipshape in my brains.

It was one of those adventures indeed which no
man could be better qualified to undertake than a
sailor, and in a score of respects might I reckon
myself privileged. First of all I had no calling to
detain me at home ; I was an independent man,
and it was all the same to me whether I lived in
London or Bristol, or voyaged to Australia. Next
I had the means to pay for my passage, which
would not impoverish me either, for whether I
stayed at home or went to sea as a passenger I
should have to live, and it would not cost me more
to live at sea than if I stayed at home. Third, if
the Captain Daniel Thompson whose name was
advertised as the Stratford's commander was the
same person who had been second mate of the
Montrose when I was in that vessel, then I should
be associated with an old friend to whom I could
explain the object of my voyage, and whose help
I could count upon. I name but a few of the
advantages under which I should embark on this
adventure. As to what good might come of the
voyage, I did not allow that consideration to
trouble me. Was it not enough that my scheme
promised me several months of constant intercourse

with my darling? Conceive my feelings
when I reflected upon being locked up in a ship
with Florence. Why, down at Bristol, as you
know, I was lurking about and could not get even
to see her; only just now I had sent a long-winded
letter to Sophie telling her I was sure I should
never meet my heart's delight again; and herein
a jiffy, comes a scheme which would enable
me to be by her side or within sight and sound
of her hour after hour, no Alphonso Hawke to
loom close at hand and scowl me away, no one
to interfere but an aunt who had never set eyes
on me, and who should never know, if I could
help it, who I was.

The prospect took such complete possession of
me that I remained indoors the whole evening,
and sat thinking over it far into the night. When
at last I went to bed I lay there very restless,
picturing the voyage, thinking of my darling and
myself at sea, plotting all sorts of courtesies and
attentions to Miss Damaris Hawke so as to win
her regard, and then fell asleep to dream that I
was on a raft alone with Florence in the middle
of the ocean, and that we were rescued by a
steamboat commanded by Mr. Morecombe, who
nourished a telescope upon the paddle-box, and
shouted " Ease her ! " and /' Back her ! " like any
Thames penny skipper.

Next morning I received a letter from my uncle,

four lines only, saying that be would be in London
on that day, and asking me to lunch with him at
the Great Western Hotel. I was very willing to
lunch with him, but ought I to open my mind — T
mean could I trust him with the secret of my
project? Suppose my aunt, influenced by neighbourly
feelings, should deem it her duty to apprise
Mr. Hawke of my intention to accompany his
daughter to Australia. Was that likely ? I could
not be sure : and not being sure, ought I to
jeopardize my noble scheme in the least degree
by speaking about it to those who were pretty
certain to repeat what I said? These considerations
worried me until it was time to start for
Haddington, and then I finally decided to sound
my uncle first, to talk with a great deal of caution,
and to trim as I might find the wind blowing.

I found him waiting for me in a private room in
the hotel, and when I was ushered in he ordered
lunch to be served, saying he was half dead with
famine. He asked me how I was, and I inquired
after my aunt and cousins ; and these civilities
being over, he exclaimed, "lam glad to see you
with some colour in your cheek, Jack. I expected
to behold a scarecrow — a skeleton with its clothes
hanging loose upon it."

Why ? " said I. " Do you think I have been
ill ? "

No. no ! I judge from what Sophie told me.

She had a letter from you this morning — a regular
twister. She wouldn't show it me, nor would I
have had time to read it, for I barely saved the
express by one minute. But Bhe said you were
very unhappy, and roast me if 3-011 could have made
her grieve more had you asked her to your funeral
and then hanged yourself."

'sit is true," said I, "when I wrote, that I was
miserable enough. You know of course that
Florence is to be packed off to Australia ? *'

When you wrote you were miserable enough?
Aren't you so now ? " he inquired.

•' Yes," said I, " very."

How's your appetite, Jack ? "

'* I'm quite ready for lunch," I answered.

He burst into a laugh and was about to speak,
but smothered up his words in a cough as the
waiter entered. "VYe took our seats at the table.
and whilst we lunched my uncle went away from
all reference to Florence and Australia and my
misery by telling me the object of his visit to
town : which was, I think, for I cannot clearly
remember, to buy some building land at Clifton,
and he was somewhat lively in his abuse of a
solicitor who had left him about ten minutes
before my arrival. And yet T could not help
taking notice that all the while he was chattering
he looked at me as if there was something in his
thoughts behind what he was saying. At last, when

vol. r. v

the waiter had cleared out and left us alone, lie
fell into a short silence, inspecting me contemplatively,
and then says he, " So, Jack, you are to
lose Florence ? "

I hope not," I replied.

But you know she's going to Australia ? "

"Yes."

"That's about 12,000 miles off, isn't it?" said
he.

"Call it 12,000," I replied.

"A deuce of a separation, 12,000 miles," he
exclaimed; "and all water, mind. No railways
from here to Australia, my lad : and there's a
mighty pause between the posting of a letter and
the getting a reply to it."

"Don't make me utterly miserable, uncle," said I.

He eyed me with a look made up of amusement
and inquisitiveness. "Do you know," cried he,
"you don't appear half miserable enough. You're
like Steele's mute ; the more you get the jollier
you look. What will Sophie think when I tell her
of your appetite, and that instead of being a shadow
you seem to be fatter than when I last saw you ? "

She'll think that I'm too much occupied in
groping about after daylight to be broken down," I
replied, feeling my way with him, as I imagined.

He took another long stare at me, and then
cocking his eye in a manner peculiar to himself,
he said, " I wonder what's in your mind ? I wonder

if what's there resembles what's here ? " tapping
his forehead. " I don't believe there's an atom of
blarney about your feeling for Florence, and consequently
you're a deal too comfortable and pleasant
in your behaviour, there's too much satisfaction
mixed up in your face not to give one a notion that
if you felt yourself up a tree yesterday when you
wrote your Paradise Lost of a letter to Sophie — in
her hand, man, it looked as long as Mahomet's al
Koran — you've managed somehow to slide down
out of it since. Am I right ? "
smiled, but made no answer.
Jack," said he, laughing, " we have both of us
been sailors, and I'll lay you fifty dollars that
we've plumped upon the same notion''
"What is yours?" said I.

Why." cried he, raising his hand and bringing
it down upon his knee, 'what could it be, man —
if you're in earnest, as I am sure you are — but that
you should accompany her to Australia ? "

In the face of this I instantly chucked all the
considerations which had bothered me clean
overboard.

••You have hit it," I exclaimed. "that's my
intention. If Florence sails for Australia I shall
go with her."

Bravo !" he shouted, rolling about in his chair
in a kind of ecstasy. " I knew you'd do it — it's
the Seymour spirit — a fair grip, and old Nick may

shriek for mercy. But think of the same notion
occurring to us both ! It came slap into me the
moment I heard old Hawke meant to ship his
daughter off. Oh, I'm wicked to enjoy it — I'm
wicked to enjoy it ! But, man alive ! think of
Alphonso's feelings when some little bird whispers
to him that Jack Seymour has sailed in the ship
that was to have carried Florence away from
the rogue's pursuit ! He called me no gentleman,
d'ye remember." And he rolled about in his chair
until I was afraid that he would capsize head over
heels.

I waited until he recovered himself, and then
looked at him with a grave face whilst I addressed
him in my soberest tone, for the project was a very
serious business to me, and I desired that he should
take the same view of it, that 1 might have the
benefit of his advice.

Uncle," said I, " I think it will be best to
conceal my intentions from my aunt and cousins."

Certainly," he answered ; " I would not have
them know it on any consideration. They have
concerned themselves enough in this love-bout of
yours, and they must not have the least suspicion
of your latest scheme. Hawke then may think
what he likes."

"Taking that view, it is a pity," said I, "that
you should know anything about it."

"Well, I'm not obliged to know," he answered.

"I shan't see you off: and you may change your
mind at the last moment for all I am to imagine.
But I say, Jack, have you really and seriously
planned this job? "

I have, indeed," I exclaimed with energy. " If
Florence is to be expatriated I'll share her banishment
: and there is not quite enough in a voyage
to Australia to frighten me into giving up the girl I
love. And besides, there are several points in my
favour : the Stratford belongs to my old employ : I
know her skipper well ; and then the cost of my
keep afloat will be less than I should have to
spend ashore."

But what will you do when you get to
Sydney ? " asked my uncle, talking as gravely as
I could wish. " Come home again ? "

"Not without Florence," said I : "that is, if I
cun make the passage out answer the purpose
I have in my mind."

I'm not asking questions from any impertinent
motives," said he. " I don't want you to go and
strand yourself t'other side the world. What's the
sage money — do you know ? "

•• A cabin in the cuddy will cost me about sixty
pounds."

One hundred and twenty pounds there and
back — feeding included — say ten months in all.
Yes," said he, "it will be a cheaper job for you
at sea than ashore. Nor could you live so well

ashore for one hundred and twenty pounds as you
will as a first-class passenger. But don't forget
that Aunt Damaris goes with Florence — she hasher
under her wing — and she will fight with
swelling feathers and distended leak if you come
within pistol-shot of the girl."

"Yes," said I, "but I shall have the advantage
of sparring with her on an element she's not used
to, but which has been my cradle. Besides," I
continued, " I don't know why there should be any
fighting. Perhaps my scheme may comprise an
alias, for if my comfort is to be insured by borrowing
a name I ought not to find it hard to fit myself
with a good one."

He held up his hand, laughing. " Don't tell me
too much ! " he exclaimed. " Keep me honest by
being reserved, for Heaven's sake ! But oh, manit's
a fine scheme — a canny notion ! What would
I give to be twenty-five, with such a job on hand ?"
I thought, as he spoke, that I could trace in his
look something of the old love of devilry which, my
father used to say, had procured his despatch to
sea. If you do borrow a name," he continued,
"take a big one— something long and fine, with a
De in front of it. Nothing like a De — it's even
better than a Le. There's a Norman touch about
De that makes people think of William the Conqueror.
But Florence will know you?" cried he
suddenly. " You can't deceive her, unless you

make up as a priest or something of that kind.
Do you intend that, too ? "

No," said I, laughing. " I must take my
chance of Florence keeping my identity' a secret
from her aunt. If she won't, why then I must
brave it out with Aunt Damaris and do the best I
can for myself."

"And the skipper you spoke of — he's an old
friend of yours, you say ? He'll be knowing you."

Oh," said I, " if he's the Dan Thompson I was
shipmate with he'll keep my secret — he'll help
me; I have nothing to fear from him."

By this time, seeing how thoroughly in earnest
I was, he had become as grave as a judge, and the
kindly paternal manner I had before taken notice
of in him when we talked together at Clifton was
now very marked. He said he had been a good
deal surprised on hearing of Hawke's intention to
send Florence to Australia. It was difficult to
understand the motive of so extreme a step.
Allowing that the girl was in love with me, we
were surely to be kept apart without the intervention
of three oceans. But what bothered him
most, he said, was this : in sending Florence to
Australia her father would be as effectually
separating her from Morecombe as he hoped to
separate her from me. What was to be made of
such a policy ? Did it mean that Morecombe had
withdrawn in disgust, and that Aunt Damaris had

prescribed a journey to the other end of the world
as the only safe remedy against me ? " Hang
me," said he, " if I could have the heart to send
one of my girls a-trooping in this fashion, even
with an aunt. How long is she to be away, d'ye
know ? "

I answered she had written to Sophie that she
might be absent two years.

And of course she'll bring back the same
disposition that she took," he exclaimed. "Climate
doesn't change the character, and as to the ocean,
why the old fellow couldn't choose a worse field
for her — no variety, no change to occupy her,
to carry her old thoughts away, nothing but just
the sort of monotony that most forces the mind in
upon itself and sets it feeding upon memory as a
monkey munches his own tail. But all this is my
friend Alphonso's business, not mine ; I dare say
he thinks he knows what he is about, and that he
applauds his own cleverness. What do you mean
to do when you arrive at Sydney? "

I have not troubled myself to think, and don't
mean to bother myself until I get there," said I.

I reckon you'll be praying for contrary
winds," said he. "I wish I could invent an
excuse to go along with you. I am often feeling
as if I want to be sailing round the world. But I
say, Jack, you must make sure that your sweetheart
sails in the Stratford before hiring a berth.

A GRAND IDEA. 329

You'd be the Liter bit with a vengeance, my Lad, to

jump abroad and find when you're half-way across
the Bay of Biscay that there is no such person as
Florence Hawke in the vessel."

Never fear," I replied. " I don't know if the
Stmthmorc calls for passengers at Plymouth ; the
Portia always did. But anyhow, if Plymouth is
the last place she looks in to, and Miss Hawke and
her aunt are not aboard, you may trust me to get
Dan Thompson to put me ashore."

"Well, well, you know the ropes," said my
uncle ; " there's no use teaching you to suck eggs.
Your feet are heavier than your head, and you'll
always fall upon 'em, I calculate. 1 dare say midwife
would think 1 have no right to take the
interest I feel in this new move of yours. It's not
neighbourly. As a father myself 1 oughtn't to
show a youngster like you any sympathy in this
job of dishing a parent's hopes and foisting a
son-in-law he objects to upon him. But 1 can't
help remembering. Jack, that you are my brother
Tom's son, and I can't help feeling that the
peremptory fashion in which that Australian
squatter has warned you off, the insolent manner
in which he has treated you, who are a gentleman
and my nephew, and who has done him no other
wrong than paying him the handsomest complimenta
man can pay a father, 1 mean hugely admiring
his daughter and loving her for herself only,

without a single barrier pony, as the French call it,
respecting what shell be worth in ducats ; I say I
can't help resenting all this as a darned insult
offered to the whole of us Seymours, living and
dead, and therefore, my lad, my best hopes
accompany you, and if you think any woman
bearing the name of Hawke worthy of so honourable
a title as that of Seymour, then I'm not a
Christian if I don't devoutly wish that when you
return you'll bring back Florence with you as
your wife ; " and looking as if this apology for
himself had considerably eased his mind, he shook
hands with me, paid the bill, and we separated.

END OF VOL. I.

loxdok; printed by-william closes and sons, limited,
stamford street and charing cross.

Imported by Messrs. Sampson Low & Co. can

be had on application.

Crown Buildings, iSS, Fleet Street, London,
October, 1SS4.

9 Stifrttoif from t\)t wist of £oofc$

PUBLISHED Tay

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston.

ALPHABETICAL LIST.
ABOUT Some Fellows, By an Eton Boy, Author of "A

"*■*• Day of my Life." Cloth limp, square 161110, 2s. 6d.

Adams (C. A'.) Manual 0/ Historical Literature. Crown 8vo,

\2s. 6d.
Alcott (Louisa M.) Jack and Jill. imo, $s.

Old-fashioned Thanksgiving Day. 2>s. 6d,

Proverb Stories. 16 mo, 3^. 6d.

Spinning Wheel Stories.

See also " Low's Standard Novels" and "Rose Library."

Aldrich (T. B.) Friar Jerome's Beautiful Book, &>c. Very

choicely printed on hand-rade paper, parchment cover, $s. 6d.

Poetical Works. Edition de Luxe. Svo, 21A

Afford (Lady Marian) Needlework as Art. With over 100

Woodcuts, Photogravures, &c. Royal Svo.
Allen (E. A.) Pock me to Sleep, Mother. Illust. Cap. 4to, 5*.
Amateur Angler's Days in Dove Dale ; Three Weeks' Holiday

in July and August, 1SS4. By E. M. Printed by Whittington, at

the Chadwick Press. Fancy boards, is. ; also on large hand-made

paper (100 only printed), american
Men of Letters. Lives of Thoreau, Irving Webster.

Small post Svo, cloth, 2s. 6d. each.
Andersen (Hans Christian) Fairy Tales. With 10 full-page

Illustrations in Colours by E. V. B. Cheap Edition, 5X.
Anderson (W.) Pictorial Arts of Japan. With 150 Plates, 16

of them in Colours and Gold. Large imp. 4to, gilt binding, gilt edges.
Anglers Strange Experiences (An). By Cotswold I SYS. With

numerous Illustrations, 4to, 5^.
Angling. See "British Fisheries Directory," " Cutchffe,"

Lambert," "Martin," and "Theakston."
Archer ( William) English Dramatists of To-day. Crown Svo,

$s.6d.

A

Art Education. See " Biographies of Great Artists 5 " Illustrated
Text Books," "Mollett's Dictionary."

Artists at Home. Photographed by J. P. Mayall, and reproduced
in Facsimile. Letterpress by F. G. Stephens. Imp. folio, 42T.

Audsley (G. A.) Omame?ital Arts of Japan. 90 Plates, 74
in Colours and Gold, with General and Descriptive Text. 2 vols., folio,
^15 15?. On the issue of Part III. the price will be further advanced.

The Art of Ch?'omo-Lithography. Coloured Plates

and Text. Folio, 63s.

Audsley ( W. and G. A.) Outlines of Ornament. Small folio,
very numerous Illustrations, 31J. 6d.

Auerbach (B.) Brigitta. Illustrated. 2s.

On the Heights. 3 vols., 6s.

Spinoza. Translated. 2 vols., imo, 4-f.

JDALD WIN (/.) Story of Siegfried. 6s.

Barlow alfred) Weaving by Hand and by Poiver. With
several hundred Illustrations. Third Edition, royal 8vo, 1/. $s.

Bathgate (Alexander Waitaruna : A Story. Crown 8vo, $s.

Bat ley (A. W.) Etched Studies for Interior Decoration. Imperial
folio, 52^. 6d.

Baxter (C. E.) Talofa: Letters from Foreign Parts. Crown
8vo, 4s 1 .

THE BAYARD SERIES.

Edited by the late J. Hain Friswell.

Comprising Pleasure Books of Literature produced in the Choicest Style as
Companionable Volumes at Home and Abroad.

We can hardly imagine better books for boys to read or for men to ponder
over." — Times.

Price is. 6d. each Volume, complete in itself, flexible cloth extra, gilt edges,
with silk Headbands and Registers.

The Story of the Chevalier Bayard.
By M. De Servile.

De Joinville's St. Louis, King of
France.

The Essays of Abraham Cowley, including
all his Prose Works.

Abdallah ; or, The Four Leaves.
By Edward Laboullaye.

Table-talk and Opinions 0/ Napoleon
Buonaparte.

Vathek : An Oriental Romance.
> By William Beckford.

Words of Wellington : Maxims
and Opinions of the Great
Duke.

Dr. Johnson's Tassels, Prince of
Abyssinia. With Notes.

Hazlitt's Round Table. With Biographical
Introduction.

The Religio Medici, Hydriotaphia,
and the Letter to a Friend. By
Sir Thomas Browne, Kent.

Ballad Poetry of the Affections. By
Robert Buchanan.

Bayard Series continued) : —

Coleridge's Christened, and other
Imaginative Poems. With Preface
by Algerian C. Swinburne.

Lord Chesterfield's Letters, Sentences,
and Maxims. With Introduction
by the Editor, and
Essay on Chesterfield by M. de
Ste.-Beuve, of the French Academy.


The King and the Commons. A
Selection of Cavalier and Puritan
Songs. Edited by ProfessorMorley.

in Mosaic. By Thos. Ballad
tyne.

My Uncle Toby ; his Story and
his Friends. Edited by P. Fitzgerald.


Reflections ; or, Moral Sentences and
Maxims of the Duke de la .


Socrates : Memoirs for English
Readers from Xenophon's Memorabilia.
By Edw. Levied.

Prince Albert's Golden Precepts.

A Case containing 12 Volumes, price 31J. 6d. ; or thu Case separately, price y. 6d.

Bell major): Rambla — Spain. Iron to Herbert. Cr. &vo,Ss.6d.

Bearers' German Copybooks. In six gradations at ^d. each.

Bickersteth'' s Hymnal Companion to Book of Common Prayer
may be had in various styles and bindings from id. to 3U. 6d. Price
List and Prospectus will be Converted on application.

Bickersteth (Pet'. E. H, M.A.) The Clergyman in his Home.

Small post 8vo, is.
Evangelical Churchmanship and Evangelical Eclecticism.

8vo, is.

From Year to Year : a Collection of Original Poetical

Pieces. Small post Svo, 3J. 6d. ; roan, 6s. and 5^. ; calf or morocco,
ioj. 6d.

The Master's Home-Call ; or. Brief Memorials of Alice

Frances Bickersteth. 20th Thousand. 32mo, cloth gilt, is.

The J faster % s U 'ill. A Funeral Sermon preached on

the Death of Mrs. S. Gurney Buxton. Sewn, 6d. ; cloth gilt, IX.

The Shaded' of the Pock. A Selection of Religious

Poetry. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

The Sl>ado:ved Home and the Light Beyond. New-edition,

crown Svo, cloth extra, $s.

Bilbrough (E. J.) " Twixt France and Spain. 1 ' Crown Svo,
7s. 6d.

Biographies of the Great Artists illustrated). Crown Svo,
emblematical binding, y. 6d. per volume, except where the price is given.
Claude Lorrain.* FraAngelico,Masaccio,andBotticelli.

Correggio, by M. E. Seaton, 2s. 6d. Fra Bartolommeo, Albertinelli, and
Delia Robbia and Cellini, 2s. 6d. Andrea del Sarto.

Albrecht Durer, by R. F. Heath. Gainsborough and Constable.
Figure Painter > of Holland. I Ghiberti and Donatello, 2s. 6d.

:rot yet published.

Biographies of the Great Artists continued') : —

Giotto, by Harry Quilter.
Hans Holbein, by Joseph Randall.
Hogarth, by Austin Dobson.
Landseer, by F. G. Stevens.
Lawrence and Romney, by Lord

Ronald Gower, 2s. 6d.
Leonardo da Vinci.
Little Masters of Germany, by W.

B. Scott.
Mantegna and Francis.
Messenger, by J. W. Mollett, 2 s. 6d.
M michelangelo Buonarotti,by Clement.
Murillo, by Ellen E. Minor, 2s. 6d.

Overbear, by J. B. Atkinson.
Raphael, by N. D' An vers.
Rembrandt, by J. W. Mollett.
Reynolds, by F. S. Pulling.
Rubens, by C. W. Rest.
Tintoretto, by W. R. Osier.
Titian, by R. F. Heath.
Turner, by Cosmo Workhouse.
Vandyke and Hals, by P. R. Head.
Velasquez, by E. Stowe.
Vernet and Delaroche, by J. Rees.
Watteau, by J. W. Mollett, 2s. 6d.
Wilkie, by J. W. Mollett.

Bird (F. f.) American Practical Dyer's Companion. 8vo, 42s.
Bird (H E.) Chess Practice. Svo, 2s. 6d.
Black ( Wm.) Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."
Blackburn (Charles F.) Hints on Catalogue Titles and Index

Entries, with a Vocabulary of Terms and Abbreviations, chiefly from

Foreign Catalogues. Royal 8vo, 14s.
Blackburn (Henry) Breton Folk. With 171 Illust. by Randolph

Caldecott. Imperial Svo, gilt edges, 2\s. ; plainer binding, lev. 6d.
Pyrenees (The). With 100 Illustrations by Gustave

Dore, corrected to 1881. Crown Svo, Js. 6d.
Blackmore (R. D.) Lorna Done. Edition deluge. Crown 4to,

very numerous Illustrations, cloth, gilt edges, 31J. 6d.; parchment,

uncut, top gilt, 35-y. Cheap Edition, small post Svo, 6s.

Novels. See " Low's Standard Library."

Remarkable History of Sir T. Upmore. New Edition,

2 vols., crown Svo, 2\s.

Bailie (William) How to get Strong and how to Stay so.
Rational, Physical, Gymnastic, &c, Exercises. Illust., sm. post Svo, $s.
Sound Bodies for our Boys and Girls. imo, 2s. 6d.

Boats of the World, Depicted and Described by one of the Craft.
With Coloured Plates, showing every kind of rig, 4to, 3-f. 6d.

Bock (Carl). The Head Hunters of Borneo : Up the Mahak-
kan, and Down the Baryta; also Journeyings in Sumatra. I vol.,
super-royal 8vo, 32 Coloured Plates, cloth extra, 36^.

Temples and Elephants. A Narrative of a Journey

through Upper Siam and Lao. Coloured, &c, Illustrations, 8vo, ils.
Berwick (J.) First Twenty Years of Australia. Crown 8vo, 5$,
Lost Tasmania n Race. Small 8vo, 4s.

Berwick {J.) Port Philip Settlement. Svo, numerous Illustrations,
2 I S.
Rosa liquet rev. C) Blossoms from the King's Garden : Sermons

for Children. 2nd Edition, small post Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Burke {J. G.) Snake Dance of the Moquis of Arizona. A

Journey from Santa Fe. With 16 page Chromolithographs and other

Illustrations. Svo, dis.
Boulevard (L.) Crusoe of Guiana ; or, the White Tiger.

Illustrated by J. Ff.rat. js. 6d.

Gold-seekers, a Sequel. Illustrated. imo, js. 6d.

Boy's Froissart. King Arthur. Abingdon. Percy. See

Lamer.
Bracken { T.) Lays of the Land of the Maori and Moa. 1 6mo, $s.
Bradshaw (/.) New Zealand as it is. 8vo, 12*. 6d.
Brasses lady) Tahiti. With 31 Autotype Illustrations after

Photos, by Colonel Stuart-worsley. Cap. 4to, 21s.
Brune (//-'.) Gothic Grammar. Translated by G. H. Bull.

3s. 6d.
Brisse baron) Menus (366, one for each day of the year). Each

Menu is given in French and English, with recipes. Translated by

Mrs. Matthew Clarke. 2nd Edition. Crown Svo, $s.

British Fisheries Directory, 1883-84. Small 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Brittany. See Blackburn.

Broglie's Frederick II. and Maria Theresa. 2 vols., Svo, 30^.

Browne (G. La thorn) Narratives of Nineteenth Century State

Trials. Period I. : 1801 — 1830. 2nd Edition, 2 vols., cr. Svo, cloth, 260.
Browne lennox) and Belike remit) Voice, Song, and Speech.

Illustrated, 3rd Edition, medium 8vo, \$s.
Bryant ( W. C.) and Gay {S. H.) History of the United States.

4 vols., royal Svo, profusely Illustrated, cor.
Bryce rev. Professor) Manitoba. With Illustrations and Maps.

Crown Svo, Js. 6d.
Bull {J. W.) Early Experiences of Life in Australia. Cro'.vn

Svo, Js. 6d.
Bunyaiis Pilgrim's Progress. With 138 original Woodcuts.

Small post Svo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.; gilt edges, 4s.
Burnaby capt.) On Horseback through Asia Minor. 2 vols.,

8vo, 38-!-. Cheaper Edition, 1 vol., crown 8vo, ior. 6d.
Burnaby mrs. F.) High Alps in Winter ; or, Mountaineering

in Search of Health. By Mrs. Fred Burnaby. With Portrait of

the Authoress, Map, and other Illustrations. Handsomely bound in

cloth, 14J.

Butler ( IV. F.) The Great Lone Land; an Account of the Red
River Expedition, 1869-70. New Edition, cr. 8vo, cloth extra, Js. 6d.

Invasion of England, told twenty years after, by an Old

Soldier. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Red Cloud ; or, the Solitary Sioux. Imperial 16 mo,

numerous illustrations, gilt edges, $s.

The Wild North Land ; IheStoryofa Winter Journey

with Dogs across Northern North America. 8vo, i8.r. Cr. 8vo, 7 -. 6d.

Buxton (H. J '. W.) Painting, English and American, Crown
8vo, $s.

S~*ADOGAN lady A.) Illustrated Games of Patience,
^■" Twenty-four Diagrams in Colours, with Text. Cap. 4to, 12s. 6d.

California. See " Nordhoff."

Cambridge Staircase (A). By the Author of "A Day of my
Life at Eton." Small crown 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Cambridge Trifles ; or, Spluttering from an Undergraduate
Pen. By the Author of "A Day of my Life at Eton," &c. imo,
cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Carleton ( Will) Farm Ballads, Farm Festivals, and Farm

Legends. I vol., small post 8vo, 2 s - &d-
See " Rose Library."

Carlyle (T.) Reminiscences of my Irish Journey in 1849.
Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

Carnegie (A.) American Four-in-hand in Britain. Small
4to, Illustrated, vos. 6d. Popular Edition, is.

Round the World. 8vo, 10^. 6d.

Carr (Mrs. Coins) La Fortuna. 3 vols., cr. 8vo, 31^. 6 d.

Chairman's Handbook (The). By R. F. D. Palsgrave, Clerk of
the Table of the House of Commons. 5th Edition, enlarged and
re-written, 2s.

Challamel (M. A.) History of Fashion in France. With 21

Plates, coloured by hand, imperial 8vo, satin-wood binding, discharged
Cross (The), and other Religious Poems. imo, 2s. 6d.
Charities of London. See Low's.

Charnock (R. S.) Practical Notes on Etching. Sec. Ed., 8vo, js. 6d.
Chess. See Bird (H. E.).
China. See Colquhoun.

Choice Editions of Choice Books. 2s. 6d. each. Illustrated by
C. W. Cope, R.A., T. Keswick, R.A., E. Duncan, Birket
Foster, J. C. Horsey, A.R.A., G. Hicks, R. Redgrave, R.A.,
C. Stonehouse, F. Taylor, G. Thomas, H. J. Townshend,
E. H. Werner, Harrison Weir, &c.

Bloomfield's Farmer's Boy.
Campbell's Pleasures of Hope.
Coleridge's Ancient Mariner.
Goldsmith's Deserted Village.
Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield.
Gray's Elegy in a Churchyard.
Neat's Eve of St. Agnes.

Milton's L' Allegro.
Poetry of Nature. Harrison Weir.
Rogers' (Sam.) Pleasures of Memory.
Shakespeare's Songs and Sonnets.
Tennyson's May Queen.
Elizabethan Poets.
Wordsworth's Pastoral Poems.

Such works are a glorious beatification for a poet." — Athenaeum,

Christ in Song. By Philip Chaff. New Ed., gilt edges, 6s.
Chron mo Lithography. See "Audsley."

Cid ballads of the). By the Rev. Gerard Lewis. Cap.

8vo, parchment, 2s. 6d.
Clay charles M.) Modern Hagar. 2 vols., crown 8vo, 21s.

See also " Rose Library."
Collingwood harry) Under the Meteor Flag. The Log of a

Midshipman during the French Revolutionary War. Illustrated,

small post 8vo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer, $&

Colquhoun {A. R. ) Across Chryse ; From Canton to Mandalay.

With Maps and very numerous Illustrations, 2 vols., 8vo, \2s.
Delvile {H. E. ) Accursed Land.
Composers. See "Great Musicians."

Confessions of a Frivolous Girl. Cr. 8vo, 6s. Paper boards, IX.
Cook (Dutton) Book of the Flay. New Edition. 1 vol., $s. 6d.

On the Stage : Studies of Theatrical History and the

Actor's Art. 2 vols., 8vo, cloth, 24s.
Comte {W.) Wanderings South by Fast. Illustrated, 8vo, 215-.

New and Cheaper Edition, 10s. 6d.

Western Pacific, Illustrated, crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Costume. See Smith (J. Moor).

Cruise of the Walnut Shell the). In Rhyme for Children
With 32 Coloured Plates. Square fancy boards, 5^.

Curtis {C. B.) Velasquez and Murillo. With Etchings, &c.
Royal 8vo, 31/. 6d. ; large paper, 63^.

Curzon {G.) Violinist of the Quartier Latin. 3 vols., crown
8vo, 31J. 6d.

Cutcliffe {H. C. ) Trout Fishing in Rapid Streams. Cr. 8 vo, 3*. 6d.

Pj AN VERS (AT.) An Elementary History of Art. Crown

- Ly Svo, ioj-. 6d.

Elementary History of Music. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Handbooks of Elementary Art — Architecture ; Sculpture

; Old Masters : Modern Painting. Crown 8vo, $s. 6d. each.

Davis (C. T.) Manufacture of Bricks, Tiles, Terra Cotta, sc
Illustrated. 8vo, 25X.

Dawidoivsky (E.) Glue, Gelatine, Isinglass, Cements, &c. 8vo
I2J. 6d.

Day of My Life (A) ; or, Every Day Experiences at Eton.
By an Eton Boy. imo, cloth extra, 2s. 6d.

Day's Col I aeon : an Encyclopedia of Prose Quotations. Imperial
8vo, cloth, 3 1 s. 6d.

Decoration. Vols. II., III., IV., V., VI., VII., VIII. New
Series, folio, Js. 6d. each.

See also Batley.

De Leon (E.) Egypt under its Khedive. Illust. Cr. 8vo, 4s.

Deverill {F. H) All Round Spain, by Road or Rail. Visit to

Andrea, &c. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.
Donnelly ignatius) Atlantis ; or, the Antediluvian World

7th Edition, crown 8vo, \2s. 6d.
Ragnarok: The Age of Eire and Gravel. Illustrated,

Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d.
Dos Passes, Law of Stockbrokers and Stock Exchanges. 8 v o, 3 5 s.
D 011 gall james Dallied) Shooting: its Appliances, Practice,

and Purpose. New Edition, revised with additions. Crown Svo, 7^. cl.

The book is admirable in every way We wish it every success n — Globe.

"A very complete treatise Likely to take high rank as an authority on

shooting." — Daily News.

Drama. See Archer, Cook (Dutton), Williams (M.).

Dartford col. A. W.) A Soldier's Life and Work in South

Africa, 1872-9. Svo, 14^.
Dyeing. See Bird (F. J.).

pDUCATIONAL Works published in Great Britain. A
•*— ' Classified Catalogue. Second Edition, Svo, cloth extra, $s.
Egypt. See "De Leon," "Foreign Countries," "Senior."
Eidlitz, Nature and Functions of A rt and Architecture. Svo, 2 1 s.
Electricity. See Gordon.
Emerson Birthday Book. Extracts from the Writings ofR. W.

Emerson. Square imo, illust., very choice binding, 3J. 6d.
Emerson {R. W.) Life. By G. W. Cooke. Crown 8vo, Ss. 6d.

English Catalogue of Books. Vol. III., 1872 — 1880. Royal
8vo, half-morocco, 42J. See also " Index."

English Philosophers. Edited by E. B. Ivan Muller, M.A.

A scries intended lo give a concise view of the works and lives of English
thinkers. Crown Svo volumes of 1S0 or 200 pp., price $s. 6d. each.

Francis Bacon, by Thomas Fowler.
Hamilton, by W. H. S. Monck.
Hartley and James Mill, by G. S.
Bower.

john Stuart Mill, by Miss Helen
Taylor.
Shaftesbury and Hutchison, by

Professor Fowler.
Adam Smith, by J. A. Fairer.
• Not yei published.

Esmarch {Dr. Friedrich) Treatment of the Wounded in War.
Numerous Coloured Plates and Illust., Svo, strongly bound, \l. Fletcher

the). Containing 36 Examples of the Original
Etched-work of Celebrated Artists, amongst others: Birket Foster,
J. E. Hodgson, R.A., Colin Hunter, J. P. Hlseltine, Robert
\\*. Macbeth, R. S. Charnock, &c. Vols, for 1SS1 and 18S2,
imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2/. \zs. 6d. each.

Etching. See Batley, Charnock.

Etchings modem) of Celebrated Paintings. 4to, 315. 6d.

pARM Ballads, Festivals, and Legends. See " Rose Library."

Fashion history of). See " Challamel."
Facets edgar) A Gentleman of Leisure, is.

Selden {B. St. C.) Some Public Schools, their Cost and

Scholarships. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.
Fclkin {R. W.) and Wilson rev. C. 7.) Uganda and the

Egyptian Soudan. With Map, Illust., and Notes. 2 vols., cr. Svo, 2S.r.
Penn {G. Manville) Off to the Wilds: A Story for Boys

Profusely Illustrated. Crown Svo, $s.
The Silver Canon : a Tale of the Western Plains.

Illustrated, small post Svo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer, $s.
Fennel greville) Book of the Roach. New Edition, 12 mo, 2s.

Ferguson john) Ceylon in 1883. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. u Ceylon in 1SS4," js. 6d.
Ferns. See Heath.
Fields {/. T) Yesterdays with Authors. New Ed., Svo, 10s. 6d.

Fleming sandford) England and Canada : a Summer Tour.

Crown Svo, 6s.
Florence. See " Vriarte."

Sampson Low, Marston, &> Cols

Flowers of Shakespeare. 32 beautifully Coloured Plates, with

the passages which refer to the flowers. Small 4to, 5-r.

Forward (A\, Jim.) Plant Lore, Legends, and Lyrics. Illustrated,
8vo, 16^.

Foreign Countries and British Colonies. A series of Descriptive
Handbooks. Crown 8vo, y. 6d. each.

Australia, by J. F. Vesey Fitzgerald.

Austria, by D. Kay, F. R. G. S.
canada, by W. Fraser Rae.

Denmark and Iceland, by E. Cette.

Egypt, by S. Lane Poole, Bea.

France, by Miss M. Roberts.

Germany, by S. Baring-Gould.

Greece, by L. Sergeant, Bea.
holland, by R. L. Poole.

Japan, by S. Mossman.
*New Zealand.

persia, by Major-Gen. Sir F. goldsmith.


Not ready yet.

Fortunes made in Business. 2 vols., demy 8vo, cloth, 32*.

Franc maud Jeanne). The following form one Series, small
post 8vo, in uniform cloth bindings, with gilt edges : —

Peru, by Cements R. Markham,

CB.
Russia, by W. R. Merrill, M.A.
Spain, by Rev. Wentworth Webster.
Sweden and Norway, by F. II.

Woods.
*Switzerland, by W. A. P. Coolidge,

M.A.
*Turkey-in-Asia, by J. C. McCoan,

M.P.
West Indies, by C. H. Eden,

F.R.G.S.

Emily's Choice. tes.
Hall's Vineyard. 4s.
John's Wife : A Story of Life in

South Australia. 4^.
Marian ; or, The Light of Some

One's Home. 5^.
Silken Cords and Iron Fetters. 4s.

Francis (F) J Far, Waves,
in the " Lancashire Witch.
Frederick the Great. See '
French. See "Julien."
Froissart. See " Lanier."

Vermont Vale. 5-r.

Minnie's Mission. 4s.

Little Mercy. 4s.

Beatrice Melton's Discipline. 4-r.

No Longer a Child. golden

Gifts. 4s.

Two Sides to Every Question. 4^.

and Wanderings, including a Cruise
2 vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24J.

'Broglie."

GENTLE Life (Queen Edition).

2 vols, in i, small 4to, 6s.

THE GENTLE LIFE SERIES.

Price 6s. each ; or in calf extra, price 10s. 6d. ; Smaller Edition, cloth
extra, 2s. 6d., except where price is named.

The Gentle Life. Essays in aid of the Formation of Character
of Gentlemen and Gentlewomen.

About in the World. Essays by Author of " The Gentle Life."

Like unto Christ. A New Translation of Thomas a Kempis'
M De Imitation Christi."

Familiar Words. An Index Variorum, or Quotation Handbook.
6s.

Essays by Montaigne. Edited and Annotated by the Author
of "The Gentle Life."

The Gentle Life, end Series.

The Silent Hour: Essays, Original and Selected. By the
Author of "The Gentle Life."

LLalf-Length Portraits. Short Studies of Notable Persons.
By J. Hain Friswell.

Essays on English Writers, for the Self-improvement of
Students in English Literature.

Other People's Windows. By J. Hain Friswell. 6s.

A Man's Thoughts. By J. Hain Friswell.

The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia. By Sir Philip Sidney.
New Edition. 6s.

George Eliot; a Critical Study of her Life. By G. W. Cooke,
Crown 8vo, vos. 6d.

German. See Beumer.

Germany. By S. Baring-Gould. Crown 8vo, jx. 6d.

Gibbs (J. R.) British Honduras. Crown 8vo, 7->\ 6d.

Gilder (W. H.) Lee-Pack and Tundra. An Account of the
Search for the " Jeannette." Svo, i8.r.

SchwaHuJs Search. Sledging in quest of the Franklin

Records. Illustrated, Svo, \2s. 6d.

Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Edited by F. G. Heath. Post 8vo,
is. 6d.

Glas john') The Lord's Supper. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d.

Gordon (/. E. H, Bea. Cantab?) Four Lectures on Electric
Induction at the Royal Institution, 1S78-9. Illust., square l6mo, 3J.

Electric Lighting. Illustrated, 8vo, iSs.

Physical Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism. 2nd

Edition, enlarged, with coloured, full-page, &c, Illust. 2 vols., 8vo, 42J.

Gouffe. The Royal Cookery Book. By Jules Gouffe ; translated
and adapted for English use by Alphonse Gruff£, Head
Pastrycook to Her Majesty the Queen. New Ed., with large plates
printed in colours. 161 Woodcuts, 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 42J.

Domestic Edition, half-bound, io*. 6d.

Great Artists. See " Biographies."

Beethoven.

Berlioz.

English Church Composers.
By Barrett
•Gliick.

PurcelL

Rossini.
Schubert.
Schumann.
Richard Wagner.
Weber.

1 2 Sampson Low, Marston, &> Co's

Great Historic Galleries of England (The). Edited by Lord
Ronald Gower, Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery. Permanent
Photographs of celebrated Pictures. Vol. I., imperial 4to, gilt edges,
^6s. Vol. II., 2/. I2J. 6d. ; III., 2/. 12S. 6d. ; IV., 2/. 12S. 6d.

Great Musicians. Edited by F. Suffer. A Series of
Biographies, crown 8vo, 3^. each : —
Handel.
Haydn.
*Marcello.
Mendelssohn.
Mozart.
*Palestrina.

In preparation.

Grohmann (IV. A. B.) Camps in the Rockies. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Groves (J. Percy) Yarmouth Grange ; a Tale of the Seventeenth.
Century. Illustrated, small post Svo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer $s.

Guizot History of France. Translated by Robert Black.

Super-royal Svo, very numerous Full-page and other Illustrations. In
8 vols., cloth extra, gilt, each 24*. This work is re-issued in cheaper
binding, 8 vols., at har. 6d. each.

It supplies a want which has long been felt, and ought to be in the hands of all
students of history." — Times.

Adamson's School Edition. The

History of France from the Earliest Times to the Outbreak of the
Revolution; abridged from the Translation by Robert Black, M. A.,
with Chronological Index, Historical and Genealogical Tables, &c.
By Professor Gustave Massox, Bea., Assistant Master at Harrow
School. With 24 full-page Portraits, and many other Illustrations.
I vol., demy 8vo, 600 pp., cloth extra, har. 6d.

Guizot History of England. In 3 vols, of about 500 pp. each,
containing 60 to 70 full-page and other Illustrations, cloth extra, gilt,
24-f. each ; re-issue in cheaper binding, har. 6d. each.

"For luxury of typography, plainness of print, and beauty of illustration, these
volumes, of which but one has as yet appeared in English, will hold their own
against any production of an age so luxurious as our own in everything, typography
not excepted." — Times.

Guy on (Mde.) Life. By Upham. 6th Edition, crown Svo, 6s,

Stall (W. W.) How to Live Long; or, 1408 Health Maxims,
■*- ■* Physical, Mental, and Moral. 2nd Edition, small post 8vo, 2s.
Hamilton (E.) Recollections of Fly-fishing for Salmon, Trout,

and Grayling. With Notes on their Habits, Haunts, and History.

Illustrated, small post 8vo, 6s. ; large paper (100 numbered copies),

1 ox. 6d.

Llands(T) Numerical Exercises in Chemistry. Cr. 8vo, 2s. 6d.

and 2s. ; Answers separately, 6d.

Hargreaves (Capt.) Voyage round Great Britain. Illustrated.

Crown Svo, $s.
Garland (Marian) Home Kitchen : a Collection of Practical

and Inexpensive Receipts. Crown Svo, $s.

Harper's Monthly Magazine. Published Monthly. 160 pages,
fully Illustrated, is.

Vol. I. December, 1SS0, to May, 1881.
,, II. June to November, 1S81.
,, III. December, 1 88 1, to May, 1 SS2.
,, IV. Tune to November, 1882.
,, V. December, 1882, to May, 1883.
,, VI. June to November, 1883.
,, VII. December, 1883, to May, 1884.
,, VIII. June to November, 1884.
Super-royal Svo, Ss. 6d. each.

' Harper's Magazine ' is so thickly sown with excellent illustrations that to count
them would be a work of time ; not that it is a picture magazine, for the engravings
illustrate the text after the manner seen in some of our choicest editions deluge." —
St. James's Gazette.

It is so pretty, so big, and so cheap. . An extraordinary shillings worth —
160 large octavo pages, with over a score of articles, and more than three times as
many illustrations." — Edinburgh Daily Rez>inu.

An amazing shillings worth . . . combining choice literature of both nations." —
Nonconformist.

Harrison (Mary) Skilful Cook : a Practical Manual of Modern

Experience. Crown Svo, $s.
Harrison (Mrs. Burton) The Old-fashioned Fairy Book.

Illustrated by Rosin a Emmett. imo, $s.
Hatton (Joseph) Journalistic London : with Engravings and
Portraits of Distinguished Writers of the Day. Cap. 4to, \2s. 6d.

Three Recruits, and the Girts they left behind them.

Small post Svo, 6s.

It hurries us along in unflagging excitement." Times.

See also " Low's Standard Novels."

Heath (Francis George) Autumnal Leaves. New Edition,
with Coloured Plates in Facsimile from Nature. Crown Svo. 14 r.

Fern Paradise. New Edition, with Plates and Photos.,

crown Svo, I2J-. 6d.

Fern Portfolio. Section I. Coloured Plates. Folio, 55-.

Fern World. With Nature-printed Coloured Plates.

New Edition, crown Svo, \2s. 6d.

Gilpin's Forest Scenery. Illustrated, 8vo, 12s. Gd.;

New Edition, 7^. 6d.

Our Woodland Trees. With Coloured Plates and

Engravings. Small Svo, Ix. (xt.

Heath francis George) Peasant Life in the West of England.

New Edition, crown Svo, vos. 6d.
Sylvan Spring. With Coloured, &c, Illustrations.

12s. 6 J.

Trees and Ferns. Illustrated, crown Svo, $s. 6d.

Where to Find Ferns. Crown Svo, 2s.

Heber (Bishop) Hymns, //lustra ted Edition. With upwards

of 100 beautiful Engravings. Small 4to, handsomely bound, 7.V. 6d.

Morocco, i8j. 6rf. and 21 J. New and Cheaper Edition, cloth, 3s. 6d.
Ileldmann (Bernard) Mutiny on Board the Ship " Leander

Small post Svo, gilt edges, numerous Illustrations, 5.?.
Plenty (G. A.) Winning his Spurs. Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, $s.

Cornet of Horse . A Story for Boys. Illust., cr. 8vo, 5 s.

sack Archer : Tale of the Crimea. Illust., crown Svo, 6s.

Her rich (Robert) Poetry. Preface by Austin Dobson. With

numerous Illustrations by E. A. Abbey. 4to, gilt edges, 42^.
Hill (Stately, Q.C., M.P.) From Home to Home : Two Long

Vacations at the Foot of the Rocky Mountains. With Wood

Engravings and Photogravures. 8vo.

Hitch/nan, Public Life of the Right Hon. Benjamin Disraeli,
Earl of Beaconsfield. 3rd Edition, with Portrait. Crown 8vo, 2 s - 6d.

Hudson (J. S.) Art Illustration for Books, Periodicals, &C.
8vo, 15^.

Hole rev. Canon) Nice and her Neighbours. Small 4to,
with numerous choice Illustrations, \2s. 6d.

Holmes (0. Wendell) Poetical Works. 2 vols., imo, exquisitely
printed, and chastely bound in limp cloth, gilt tops, 10s. 6d.

Hoppus (y. L>.) Riverside Papers. 2 vols., 12s.

Hugo (Victor) "Ninety Three" Illustrated. Crown Svo, 6s.

Toilers of the Sea. Crown 8vo, fancy boards, 2s.

History of a Crime. Story of the Coup d'Etat. Cr. 8vo, 6s.

Hundred Greatest Men the). 8 portfolios, 21s. each, or 4 vols.,
half-morocco, gilt edges, 10 guineas. New Ed., I vol., royal Svo, 21s.

Harrel (H.) and Hyde. Law of Directors and Officials of
Joint Stock Companies. 8vo, 3-r. 6d.

Hutchinson (Thos.) Diary and Letters. Demy 8vo, cloth, 16s.

Hutchinson {W. H.) Pen and Pencil Sketches: Eighteen Years

in Bengal. Svo, i8j.
Hygiene and Public Health. Edited by A. H. Buck, M.D.

Illustrated. 2 vols., royal 8vo, 42J.
Hymnal Companion of Common Prayer. See Bickersteth.

ILLUSTRATED Text-Books of Art-Education. Edited by
■*■ Edward J. Pointer, R.A. Each Volume contains numerous Illustrations,
and is strongly bound for Students, price $s. Now ready : —

PAINTING.

French and Spanish.
English and American.

Classic and Italian. By PERCY

R. Head.
German, Flemish, and Dutch.

ARCHITECTURE.

Classic and Early Christian.

Gothic and Renaissance. By T. Roger Smith.

SCULPTURE.

Antique : Egyptian and Greek.

Index to the English Catalogue, Jan., 1874, to Dec, 1SS0.

Royal 8vo, half-morocco, iSj.
Irish Birthday Book ; from Speeches and Writings of Irish

Men and Women, Catholic and Protestant. Selected by Delusive.

Small 8vo, 5^.

Irving (Henry) Impressions of America. By J. Hattox. 2
vols., 2IJ-. ; New Edition, 1 vol., 6s.

Dining (Washington). Complete Library Edition of his Works
in 27 Vols., Copyright, Unabridged, and with the Author's Latest
Revisions, called the " Geoffrey Crayon" Edition, handsomely printed
in large square 8vo, on superfine laid paper. Each volume, of about
500 pages, fully Illustrated. 1 2 s. 6d. per vol. Seals "Little Britain."

(" American Men of Letters') 2s. 6d.

ftfAMES (C.) Curiosities of Law and Lawyers, Svo, 7*. 6d.

Japan. See Audley.

Fanes (J J.) Italian Rambles. Square imo, 5*.

Johnson, W. Lloyd Garrison and his Times. Cr. Svo, 12s. 6d.

Johnston (H. Hi) River Congo, from its Mouth to Lobo.
New Edition, 8vo, 2Ij\

Johnston (R. Mi) Old Mark Lands ton : a Tale of Duke's Creek.
Crown Svo, 5 J.

Jones (Major) The Emigrants' Friend. A Complete Guide to
the United States. New Edition, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Mrs. Herbert) Sandringham : Fast and Present. Illustrated,
crown Svo, $s. 6d.

Joyful Lays. Sunday School Song Book. By Lowry and
Done. Boards, 2s.

fulicn [F.) English Student's French Examiner. imo, 2s.

First Lessons in Conversational French Grammar.

Crown 8vo, I J.

French at Home and at School. Book L, Accidence,

&c. Square crown 8vo, 2s.

Conversational French Reader. imo, cloth, 2s. 6d.

Petites Legions de Conversation et de Gram ma ire. New

Edition, 3j.

Phrases of Daily Use. Limp cloth, 6d.

Jung (Sir Salary) Life of. [In the press.

TSELSEY (C. B.) Diseases of the Rectum and Anus.
■* *■ Illustrated 8vo, lSs.
Kempis thomas a) Daily Text-book. Square imo, 2s. 6d. ;

interleaved as a Birthday Book, 2 s - bd.
Khedive and Pashas. Sketches of Contemporary Egyptian

Rulers and Statesmen. Crown 8vo, "js. 6d.
Kingston (W. H. G.) Dick Cheveley. Illustrated, 161110, gilt

edges, 7-f. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, $s.

Heir of Kilfinnan. Uniform, 7s. 6d. ; also 55".

Snow-shoes and Canoes. Uniform, 7s. 6d. ; also 5^.

Two Supercargoes. Uniform, ys. 6d. ; also 55.

With Axe and Rife. Uniform, 7^. 6d. ; also knight

(E. F.) Albania and Montenegro. Illust. 8vo, 12s. 6d.
Knight (E. J.) The Cruise of the "Falcon." A Voyage round

the World in a 30-Ton Yacht. Illust. New Ed. 2 vols., crown Svo,

24-f.

J ANGSTAFF-HAVILAND (Raj.) Enslaved. 3 vols.,
■^ 3 1 j. 6d.

Lanier (Sidney) The Boy's Froissart, selected from the Chronicles
of England, France, and Spain. Illustrated, cr. Svo, gilt edges, "js. 6d.

Boy's King Arthur. Uniform, 7^. 6d.

Boy's Abingdon ; Original Welsh Legends of King

Arthur. Uniform, "js. 6d.

Boy's Percy : Ballads of Love and Adventure, selected

from the " Reliques." Uniform, js. 6d.

Lansdell (H.) Through Siberia. 2 vols., demy Svo, sos. ; New
Edition, unabridged, very numerous illustrations, 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Garden (W.) School Course o?i Heat. Second Edition, Illustrated,
crown 8vo, $s.

Lathrop (G. P.) Newport. Crown 8vo, 5*.

Legal Profession : Romantic Stories. >js. 6d.

Leonard {T. B.) To Married Women and Women about to be

Married, &c. 67.
Lenormant (F.) Beginnings of History. Crown Svo, 125. 6d.
Leonardo da Vino's Literary Works, Edited by Dr. Jean

Paul Richter. Containing his Writings on Painting, Sculpture,
and Architecture, his Philosophical Maxims, Humorous Writings, and
Miscellaneous Notes on Personal Events, on his Contemporaries, on
Literature, &c. ; for the first time published from Autograph Manuscripts.
By J. P. Richter, Ph. Dr., Hon. Member of the Royal and
Imperial Academy of Rome, &c. 2 vols., imperial Svo, containing
about 200 Drawings in Autotype Reproductions, and numerous other
Illustrations. Twelve Guineas.

Lewald fanny) Stei/a. Translated. 2 vols., imo, 4s.

Library of Religious Poetry. The Best Poems of all Ages.
Edited by PuiLir Chaff and Arthur Oilman. Royal Svo, 1036
pp., cloth extra, gilt edges, 21s. ; re-issue in cheaper binding, 10s. 67.

Lindsay (JV. S.) History of Merchant Shipping and Ancient
Commerce. Over 150 Illustrations, Maps, and Charts. In 4 vols.,
demy Svo, cloth extra. Vols. I and 2, Ilx. each ; vols. 3 and 4, 14J.
each. 4 vols, complete, 50^.

Lille lucy F.) Prudence : a Story of Esthetic London. $s.

Little Britain ; together with The Spectre Bridegroom, and A
Legend of Sleepy Hollow. By Washington Irving. An entirely
New Edition de luxe. Illustrated by 120 very fine Engravings on
Wood, by Mr. J. D. Cooper. Designed by Mr. Charles O.
Murray. Re-issue, square crown Svo, cloth, 6s.

Logan sir IVm. F.) Life. By B. J. Harrington. Svo, i 2s. Cd.

Long mrs. W. H. C.) Peace and War in the Transvaal.
1 2 mo, 3 s. 6d.

Lome marquis of) Memories of Canada and Scotland.

Speeches and Verses. Crown Svo, "js. 67.
Loafs Standard Library of Travel and Adventure. Crown Svo

uniform in cloth extra, Js. 67., except where price is given.

1. The Great Lone Land. By Major W. F. BUTLER, Cab.

2. The Wild North Land. By Major W. F. Butler, Cab.

3. How I found Living-stone. By II. M. STANLEY.

4. Through the Dark Continent. By H. M. Stan lev. 12s. 67.

5. The Threshold of the Unknown Reg-ion. By C. R. Markham.

(4th Edition, with Additional Chapters, 10s. 67.)

6. Cruise of the Challenge-er. By W. J. J. SPftY, Rex.

7. Burnaby's On Horseback through Asia Minor. 10s. 67.
S. Schweinfurth's Heart of Africa. 2 vols., i$s.

9. Marshall's Through America.
10 Lansdell's Through Siberia. Illust. and unabridged, 10s. 67.

Low's Standard Novels. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6 s. each,
unless otherwise stated.
A Daughter of Heth. By W. Black.
In Silk Attire. By W. Black.
Ailment. A Novel. By W. Black.
Lady Silver-dale's Sweetheart. By W. Black.
Sunrise. By W. Black.
Three Feathers. By William Black.
Alice Lorraine. By R. D. Blackmore.
Christowell, a Dartmoor Tale. By R. D. Blackmore.
Clara Vaughan. By R. D. Blackmore.
Crack Powell. By R. D. Blackmore.
Cripps the Carrier. By R. D. Blackmore.
Enema; or, My Father's Sin. By R. D. Blackmore.
Lorna Done. By R. D. Blackmore.
Mary Waverley. By R. D. Blackmore.
An English Squire. By Miss Coleridge.
A Story of the Dragonnades ; or, Asylum Christi. By the Rev.

E. William, M.A.
A Laodicean. By Thomas Hardy.
Far from the Madding Crowd. By Thomas Hardy.
Pair of Blue Eyes. By Thomas Hard.
Return of the Native. By Thomas Hardy.
The Hand of Ethelbert. By Thomas Hardy.
The Trumpet Major. By Thomas Hardy.
Two on a Tower. By Thomas Hardy.
Three Recruits. By Joseph Hatton.
A Golden Sorrow. By Mrs. Castel Holy. New Edition.
Out of Court. By Mrs. Castel Holy.

History of a Crime: Story of the Coup d'Etat. Victor Hugo.
Ninety-three. By Victor Hugo. Illustrated.
Adela Cathcart. By George Mac Donald.
Guild Court. By George Mac Donald.
Mary Marston. By George Mac Donald.
Stephen Archer. New Ed. of " Gifts." By George Mac Donald.
The Vicar's Daughter. By George Mac Donald.
"Weighed and Wanting. By George Mac Donald.
Diane. By Mrs. Macquoid.
Elinor Dryden. By Mrs. Macquoid.
My Lady Greensleeves. By Helen Matters.
Alaric Spenceley. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
Struggle for Fame. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
Daisies and Buttercups. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
The Senior Partner. By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.
John Wordsworth. By W. Clark Russell.
A Sailor's Sweetheart. By W. Clark Russell.
Sea Queen. By W. Clark Russell.
Wreck of the Grosvenor. By W. Clark Russell.
The Lady Maud. By W. CLARK RUSSELL.

Louts Standard Novels — continued.
Little Loo. By W. Clark Russell.
My Wife and I. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe.
Pog-anuc People, their Loves and Lives. By Mrs. B. Stowe.
Ben Eur: a Tale of the Christ. By Lew. Wallace.
Anne. By Constance Fenimore Wilson.
For the Major. By Constance Fenimore Wilson. $s.
French Heiress in her own Chateau.

Low's Handbook to the Charities of London. Edited and revised
to date by C. Jackson, F.S.S., Editor of "A Guide to the
Churches of London and its Suburbs," &c. Yearly, I s. 6d. j Paper, is.

AfCCORMICK (R., R.N.). Voyages of Discovery in the

•*■*■*■ Arctic and Antarctic Seas in the ** Erebus" and u Terror," in

Search of Sir John Franklin, Sec, with Autobiographical Notice by

R. McCORM.CK, Rex., who was Medical Officer to each Expedition.

With Maps and very numerous Lithographic and other Illustrations.

2 vols., royal Svo, 52X. 6d.
Macdonald (A.) " Our Sceptred Isle 11 audits World-wide

Empire. Small post Svo, cloth, 4s.
MacDonald (G.) Orts. Small post Svo, 6s.

See also " Low's Standard Novels."

Macgregor (John) " Rob Roy" en the Baltic. 3rd Edition,

small post Svo, 2s. £>d. ; cloth, gilt edges, y. 6d.
A Thousand Miles in the " Rob Roy" Canoe, nth

Edition, small post Svo, 2s. 6</. ; cloth, gilt edges, $s. 6J.
Voyage Alone in the Yawl " Rob Roy." New Edition,

thoroughly revised, with additions, small post Svo, 5^.; 3J. dd. and

2s. 6d.

Macquoid (Mrs). See Low's Standard Novels.
Magazine. See Decoration, Etcher, Harper.

Maryland. Travels through the Snowy Carpathians, and
Great Alfold of the Magyar. By a Fellow of the Carpathian Society
(Diploma of 1881), and Author of " The Indian Alps." With about
120 Woodcuts from the Author's sketches and drawings. 2 vols., 8 vo, 38-5-.

Manitoba. See Bryce and Rae.

Maria Theresa. See Broglie.

Marked " In Haste." A Story of To-day. Crown 8vo, 8s. 6d.

Markham (A dm.) Naval Career during the Old War. 8vo, 14J.

Markham (C. R.) The Threshold of the Unknown Region.

Crown 8vo, with Four Maps, 4th Edition. Cloth extra, 10s. 6d.
War between Peru a fid Chili, 1879-1881. Third Ed.

Crown 8vo, with Maps, 10s. 6d. See also •« Foreign Countries."

Marshall (IV. G.) Through America. New Edition, crown
Svo, with about hoo Illustrations, Js. 6rf.

Martin (J?. IV.) Float Fishing and Spinning in the Nottingham
Style. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Marvin (Charles) Russian Advance towards India. Svo, iGs.

Maury (Commander) Physical Geography of the Sea, and its
Meteorology. New Edition, with Charts and Diagrams, cr. 8vo, 6s.

Men of Mark : a Gallery of Contemporary Portraits of the most
Eminent Men of the Day, specially taken from Life. Complete iu
Seven Vols., 4to, handsomely bound, cloth, gilt edges, 2$s. each.

Mendelssohn Family (The), 1729 — 1847. From Letters and
Journals. By Sebastian Hexsel. Translated. New Edition, 2
vols., Svo, 30J.

Mendelssohn. See also " Great Musicians."
Mesne (W.) Tingling. Crown Svo, 35 6d.

Millard {FT. B.) Bright 's Disease of the Kidneys. Illustrated.

8vo, I2J. 6d.
Mitchell (D. G. ; Ik. Marvel) Works. Uniform Edition,

small Svo, $s. each.
Bound together.

Doctor Johns.
Dream Life.
Out-of-To\\n Places.

Reveries of a Bachelor.

Seven Stories, Basement and Attic.

Wet Days at Wedgwood.

Milford (Mary Russell) Our Village. Illustrated with Frontispiece
Steel Engraving, and 12 full-page and 157 smaller Cuts. Crown
4to, cloth, gilt edges, 21s. ; cheaper binding, 10s. 6d.

Mollett (J. W.) Illustrated Dictionary of Words used in Art
and Archaeology. Terms in Architecture, Arms, Bronzes, Christian
Art, Colour, Costume, Decoration, Devices, Emblems, Heraldry,
Lace, Personal Ornaments, Pottery, Painting, Sculpture, &c, with
their Derivations. With 600 Wood Engravings. Small 4to, 15-f.

Morley (H.) English Literature in the Reign of Victoria.
2000th volume of the Tauchnitz Collection of Authors. imo, 2s. 67.

Miller (F.) Noble Words and Noble Deeds. Containing many
full-page Illustrations by Philippoteaux. Square imperial imo,
cloth extra, ys. 6d. ; plainer binding, plain edges, $s.

Music. See " Great Musicians."

]Stew Child s Play (A). Sixteen Drawings by E. V. B.
•*■ * Beautifully printed in colours, 4to, cloth extra, \zs. 67.

New Zealand. See Bradshaw.

Newbiggin's Sketches and laies. imo, 4^.

Newfoundland. See Rae.

Nicholls {J. H. Kerry) The King Country : Explorations in
New Zealand. Many Illustrations and Map. New Edition, 8vo, 21s.

Nicholson (C) Work a.'.d Workers of the British Association
imo, ij.

Nordhoff (C.) California, for Health, Pleasure, and Residence.
New Edition, 8vo, with Maps and Illustrations, 12s. 6d.

Nothing to Wear ; and Two Millions. By W. A. Butler.
New Edition. Small post 8vo, in stiff coloured wrapper, is.

Nursery Playmates prince of '). 217 Coloured Pictures foi
Children by eminent Artists. Folio, in coloured boards, 6s.

O'BRIEN {P. B.) Fifty Years of Concessions to Ireland.
Vol. I., 8vo, 16*.

■ Irish Land Question, and English Question. New

Edition, cap. 8vo, 2s.

Oris (C. F.) Fishing with the Fly. Illustrated. 8vo, 12s. 6d.

Our Little Ones in Heaven. Edited by the Rev. H. Reins.
With Frontispiece after Sir Joshua Reynolds. Cap., cloth extra,
New Edition — the 3rd, with Illustrations, $s.

Outlines of Ornament in all Styles. A Work of Reference for
the Architect, Art Manufacturer, Decorative Artist, and Practical
Fainter. By W. and G. A. Audsley, Fellows of the Royal Institute
of British Architects. Only a limited number have been printed and
the stones destroyed. Small folio, 60 plates, with introductory text,
cloth gilt, 31 s. 6d.

Owen douglas) Marine Insurance Notes and Clauses. 10s. 6d.

pALGRA VE {R. F. D.). See " Chairman's Handbook."

Palliser mrs.) A History of Lace, from the Earliest Period. A
New and Revised Edition, with additional cuts and text. 8vo, 1/. I*.

The China Collector's Pocket Companion. With upwards
of 1000 Illustrations of Marks and Monograms. Small 8vo, $s.

Perseus, the Gorgon Slayer. With Coloured Plates, square Svo,

Pharmacopoeia of the United States of America. Svo, 21s.

Phi/pot (H.J.) Diabetes Mellitus. Crown 8vo, 5^.

Diet System. Three Tables, in cases, is. each.

Photography (History and Handbook of). See Islander.

Pinto (Major Sera) How I Crossed Africa : from the Atlantic
to the Indian Ocean, Through Unknown Countries ; Discovery of the
Great Zambesi Affluents, &c— Vol. I., The King's Rifle. Vol. II.,
The Collar Family. With 24 full-page and 118 half-page and
smaller Illustrations, 13 small Maps, and I large one. 2 vols., Svo, ,1,2s.

Poe (E. A.) The Raven. Illustrated by Gustave Dure.
Imperial folio, cloth, 63^.

Poems of the Inner Life. Chiefly from Modern Authors.
Small 8vo, $s.

Polar Expeditions. See Koldewey, Markham, MacGahan,
Marks, Nordenskiold, Gilder, McCormick.

Politics and Life in Mars. imo, 2s. 6d.

Powell (J V.) Wanderings in a Wild Country ; or, Three Years
among the Cannibals of New Britain. 8vo, Map and Illustrations,
sinew Edition, crown Svo, $s.

Prisons, Her Majesty's, their Effects and Defects. New and
cheaper Edition, 6s.

Pointer (Edward J., P. A.). See " Illustrated Text-books."

Publishers' Circular (The), and General Record of British and
Foreign Literature. Published on the 1st and 15th of every Month, 3<£

l^AE ( IV. Eraser) From Newfoundland to Manitoba ; a
*• Guide through Canada's Maritime, Mining, and Prairie Provinces.
With Maps. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Rambled (A.) History of Russia. 2 vols., 8vo, 36^

Reade (A. ) Tea and Tea Drinking. Illustrated. Crown 8 vo, is.

Reverse) History of Ancient Art. 8vo, i8x.

Redford (G.) Ancient Sculpture. Crown 8vo, $s.

Richer than Wealth. 3 vols., crown 8vo, 31 J. 6d.

Richter (Dr. Jean Paul) Italian Art in the National Gallery.
4to. Illustrated. Cloth gilt, 2/. 2s.; half-morocco, uncut, 2K lis. 6./.

See also Leonardo da Vinci.

Robin Hood; Merry Adventures of. Written and illustrated
by Howard Pyle. Imperial 8vo, 15-r.

Robinson (Phil) In mv Indian Garden. With a Preface by
Edwin Arnold. Crown Svo, limp cloth, 4th Edition, 3*. 6J.

— Noah's Ark. A Contribution to the Study of Unnatural

History. Small post Svo, \2s. dd.
Sinners and Saints : a Tour across the United States of

America, and Round them. Crown Svo, I or. 6d.

Under the Punkah. Crown Svo, limp cloth, $s.

Robinson (Serjeant) Wealth and its Sources. Stray Thoughts. $s.
Rockstro (W. S.) History of Music. Svo, 14s.
Roland ; the Story of. Crown 8vo, illustrated, 6s.
Romantic Stories of the legal Profession. Crown Svo, 7 J. 6d.

Roosevelt (Blanche) Stage-struck ; or, She would be an Opera

Singer. 2 vols , crown 8vo, 21s.
Rose (J. ) Complete Practical Machinist. New Ed. , 1 2 mo, 1 2 s. 6d.
Mechanical Drawing. Illustrated, small 4to, its.

Rose Library ( The). Popular Literature of all Countries. Each
volume, is. ; cloth, 2s. &/. Many of the Volumes are Illustrated —
Little Women. By Louisa M. Alcott.

Little Women Wedded. Forming a Sequel to " Little Women."
Little Women and Little Women Wedded. I vol. , cloth gilt, 3.-. 6./.
Little Men. By L. Ifs. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3.?. 6J.
An Old-fashioned Girl. By Louisa M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth,

3s. 64.
Work. A Story of Experience. By L. M. Alcott. 3.C 6./ ; 2 vols.,

is. each.
Stowe (Mrs. H. B.) The Pearl of Orr's Island.

The Minister's Wooing

and our Neighbours. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 6.r.

My Wife and I. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 6s.

Hans B r inter ; or, the Silver Skates. By Mrs. Dolce.
My Study Windows. By J. R. Lowell.
The Guardian Angel. By Oliver Wendell Holmes.
My Summer in a Garden. By C. D. Warner.

Died. By Mrs. Beecher Stowe. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3J. 6d.

Farm Ballads. By Will Carleton.

Farm Festivals. By Will Carleton.

Farm Legends. By Will Carleton.

The Clients of Dr. Bernagrius. 3s. 6d. ; 2 parts, If. each.

The Undiscovered Country. By W. D. Howell. 2 s - can <l ls -

Baby Rue. By C. M. Clay. jr. 6d. and is.

The Rose in Bloom. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.

Eight Cousins. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; cloth gilt, 35. 6d.

Under the Lilacs. By L. M. Alcott. 2s. ; also 3^. 6d.

Silver Pitchers. By Louisa M. Alcott. 3-$-. 6 ^- and Is -

Jimmy's Cruise in the "Pinafore," and other Tales. By

Louisa M. Alcott. 2s.; cloth gilt, y. 6d.
Jack and Jill. By Louisa M. Alcott. $s.; 2s.
Hitherto. By the Author of the " Gayworthys." 2 vols., Leach;

I vol., cloth gilt, 3-r. 6d.
Friends : a Duet. By E. Stuart Phelps. $s. 6d.
A Gentleman of Leisure. A Novel. By Edgar Facets.

35-. 6d. ; is.
The Story of Helen Troy. 3^. 6d. ; also ix.

Round the Yule Log: Norwegian Folk and Fairy Tales.
Translated from the Norwegian of P. Chr. Asbjornsen. With 100
Illustrations after drawings by Norwegian Artists, and an Introduction
by E. W. Gosse. Imperial imo, cloth extra, gilt edges, js. 6d.

Rousselet louis) Son of the Constable of France. Small post
8vo, numerous Illustrations, $s.

King of the Tigers : a Story of Central India. Illustrated.
Small post 8vo, gilt, 6s. ; plainer, $Si

The Drummer Boy: a Story of the Days of Washington.

Small post 8vo, numerous Illustrations, 5^.

Russell ( W. Clark) English Channel Ports and the Estate

of the East and West India Dock Company. Crown 8vo, is.
Jack's Courtship. 3 vols., crown 8vo, 31 s. 6d.

The Lady Maud. 3 vols., crown 8vo, 31J-. 6d. New

Edition, small post 8vo, 6s.

Little Loo. New Edition, 6s.

My Watch Below ; or, Yams Spun when off Duty.

2nd Edition, crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

Sailor's Language. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, $s. 6d.

Russell (IV. Clark) Sea Queen. 3 vols., crown 8vo, 31J. 6d.

Wreck of the Grosvenor. 4to, sewed, 6d.

See also Low's Standard Novels.

Russell {IV. H, LL.D.) Hesperothen: Notes from the Western
World. A Ramble through part of the United States, Canada, and
the Far West, in iSSr. By W. II. Russell, LL.D. 2 vols., crown
8vo, 24J.

The Tour of the Prince of Wales in India. By

W. H. Russell. LL.D. Fully Illustrated by Sydney P. Hall,
M.A. Super-royal o\,». gilt edges, 52^. 6d. ; large paper, i>^s.

Saints and their Symbols : A Companion in the Churches
*^ and Picture Galleries of Europe. Illustrated. Royal 1 6m o, 3s. ct.

Saunders {A.) Our Domestic Birds: Poultry in England and
Near Zealand. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Scherr prof y.) History of English Literature. Cr. Svo, Zs. 6d.

Schuyler (Eugene). The Life of Peter the Great. By Eugene
Schuyler, Author of " Turkestan." 2 vols., 8vo, 32s.

Schiueinfurth {Georg) Heart of Africa. Three Years' Travels
and Adventures in the Unexplored Regions of Central Africa, from
1868 to 1871. Illustrations and large Map. 2 vols., crown Svo, 15^.

Scott (Leader) Renaissance of Art in Italy. 410, 31*. 6d.

Sea, River, and Creek. By Garboard Strike. The Eastern
Coast. imo, is.

Sedgwick (Major JV.) Light the Dominant Force of the Universe,
"js. 6d.

Senior (Nassau W.) Conversations and journals in Egypt and
Malta. 2 vols., Svo, z\s.

Shadbolt and Mackinnon's South African Campaign, 1879.
Containing a portrait and biography of every officer who lost his
life. 4to, handsomely bound, 2/. vos.

The Afghan Campaigns of 1878— 1880. By Sydney

Shadbolt. 2 vols., royal quarto, cloth extra, 3/.

Shakespeare. Edited by R. Grant White. 3 vols., crown
8vo, gilt top, 36J.; Edition de tune, 6 vols., 8vo, cloth extra, 6jx.

Shakespeare. See also " Flowers of Shakespeare."

Sidney (Sir Philip) Arcadia. New Petition, 6s.

Siegfried : The Story of. Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Sides ( Wirt). Rambles and Studies in Old South Wales. With
numerous Illustrations. 8vo, i8j.

British Goblins, Welsh Folk Lore. New Ed., 8vo, iSs.

Studies of Assassination. imo, $s. 6d,

Sir Roger de Coverley. Re-imprinted from the " Spectator."
With 125 Woodcuts and special steel Frontispiece. Small cap. 4to, 6s.

Smith (G.) Assyrian Explorations and Discoveries. Illustrated
by Photographs and Woodcuts. New Edition, demy 8vo, i8j.

The Chaldean Account of Genesis. By the late G.

Smith, of the Department of Oriental Antiquities, British Museum.
With many Illustrations. \6s. New Edition, revised and re-written
by Professor Sauce, Queen's College, Oxford. 8vo, i8j.

Smith (J. Moor) Ancient Greek Female Costume. 112 full-page
Plates and other Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.

Hades of Ardennes : a Visit to the Caves of Han. Crown

8vo, Illustrated, 5-f.

Smith (Sydney) Life and Times. By Stuart J. Reid. Illustrated.
SvO, 2IJ.

Smith (1. Roger) Architecture, Gothic and Renaissance. Illustrated,
crown 8vo, $s.

Classic and Early Christian.

Illustrated. Crown 8vo, $s.

Smith (W. Robert) Laws concerning Public Health. 8vo,
Sis. 6d.

Somerset (Lady H.) Our Village Life. Words and Illustrations.
Thirty Coloured Plates, royal 4to, fancy covers, $s.

Spanish and French Artists, By Gerard Smith. (Pointer's

Art Text-books.) 5*.

Spies' French Dictionary. 29th Edition, remodelled. 2 vols.,
8vo, Is.; half bound, 211.

Spry(W.J.f. t Ren.) The Cruise of H Mss. " Challenger?

With Route Map and many Illustrations 6th Edition, demy Svo, cloth,
iSs. Cheap Edition, crown Svo, with some of the Illustrations. 7^. 6</.

Spyri (Johanna) Heidi's Early Experiences : a Story for
Children and those who love Children. Illustrated, small post 8vo,
4-r. 6</.

Heidi's Further Experiences. Illustrated, small post

8vo, 4-f. 6d.

Stack (E.) Six Months in Persia. 2 vols., crown 8vo, 245.

Stanley (H. M.) Hon' I Found Livingstone. Svo, 10s. 6d. ;
crown Svo, "js. 6</.

"My Kalulu? Prince, King, and Slave. With

numerous graphic Illustrations after Original Designs by the Author.
Crown Svo, is. 6</.

Coomassie and Magdalen. A Story of Two British

Campaigns in Africa. Demy Svo, with Maps and Illustrations, i6j.
Through the Dark Continent. Crown Svo, 12s. 6d.

Stanton (T.) Woman Question in Europe. A Series of Original
Essays. Intro. by Frances Power Cob be. 8vo, \2s. 6</.

Sien house mrs.) An Englishwoman in Utah. Crown Svo, 2s. 6d.

Stevens. Old Boston : a Romance of the War of Independence.
3 vols., crown Svo, 31 J. 6d.

Stirling (A. IV.) Never Never Land : a Ride in A r ort/i
Queensland. Crown Svo, 8x. Cxt.

Stockton (Frank R) The Story of Vit.au. With 16 page
Illustrations. Crown Svo, 5/.

Stoker (Dram) Under the Sunset. Crown Svo, 6s.

Story without an End. From the German of Carve, by the late
Mrs. Sarah T. Austin. Crown 4to, with 15 Exquisite Drawings
by E. V. V>., printed in Colours in Fac-simile of the original Water
Colours; and numerous other Illustrations. New Edition, js. ct.

with Illustrations by Harvey. Square 4to, 2s. 6d.

Starve (Mrs. Beecher) Died. Cloth, gilt edges, 35. 6d.; boards, 2s.
Little Foxes. Cheap Ed., is.; Library Edition, 4s. 6d.

Stowe mrs. Beecher) My Wife and I; or, Harry Henderson's
History. Small post 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.*

Minister's Wooing.

Old Town Folk. 6s. : Cheap Edition, 2s. 6d.

Old Toiun Fireside Stories. Cloth extra, 3^. 6d.

Our Folks at Poganuc. 6s.

We and our Neighbours. 1 vol., small post 8vo, 6s.

Sequel to " My Wife and I."*

Poganuc People: their Loves and Lives. Crown 8vo, 6s.

Chimney Comer, is. ; cloth, is. 6d.

The Pearl of Ores Island. Crown 8vo, 5*.*

Woman in Sacred History. Illustrated with 15

Chromo-lithographs and about 200 pages of Letterpress. 4to, 2$s.

Sullivan (A. M, late M.P.) Nutshell History of Ireland,
From the Earliest Ages to the Present Time. Paper boards, 6d.

Sutton (A. K.) A B C Digest of the Bankruptcy Law. 8vo,
3-y. and 2s. 6d.

7 A INF (H. A) " Les Origines de la France Contemporary."
Translated by John Durant.

Vol. 1. The Ancient Regime. Demy 8vo, cloth, i6x.
Vol. 2. The French Revolution. Vol. 1 . do.
Vol. 3. Do. do. Vol. 2. do.

Talbot thon. F.) A Letter on Emigration, is.

Tangle (P.) Reminiscences of Australia, America, and Egypt.
2nd Edition, crown 8vo, 6s.

Tauchnitz's English Editions of German Authors. Each
volume, cloth flexible, 2s. ; or sewed, U. 6d. (Catalogues post free.)

Tauch?iitz (B.) German and English Dictionary. Paper, is. 6d.;
cloth, 2s. ; roan. 2s. 6d.

French and English Dictionary. Paper, is. 6d.) cloth,

2s. ; roan, 2s. 6d.

See also Rose Library.

Tauchnitz(B.) Italian and English Dictionary. Taper, 1*. 6./.;
cloth, 2s. ; roan, 2s. 6J.

Spanish and English. Paper, 1*. 6d. j cloth, 2S. \ roan,

2S. 6d.

Spanish and French. Paper, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2S.\

roan, 2s. 6d.

Taylor (\V. Af.) Paul the Missionary. Crown Svo, js. 6 J.

Moses the Lawgiver. Crown Svo, "js. 6d.

That sing (Prof.) Preparation of Malt and the Fabrication of
Beer. 8vo, 45X.

Theakston (M.) British Angling Flies. Illustrated. Cr. Svo, $s.

Thoreau. By San corn. (American Men of Letters.) Crown
Svo, 2 s. 6d.

Tolhausen (Alexandre) Grand Supplement du Diction narc
Technologique. jr. 6a' .

Toller (Alexander) Reminiscences of an Adventurous and Chequered
Career. 2 vols., 21s.

Tourist Idyll \ and other Stories. 2 vols., crown 8vo, 215.

Tracks in Norway of Four Pairs of Feel, delineated by Four
Hands. Cap. Svo, 2s.

Trevor ( IV. P. ) The Prince of Palms. With Coloured Frontispiece
of the Cocoa-Nut Palm, also Engravings. Royal Svo, cloth
extra, is. 6d.

Trials. See Browne.

Tristan (Rev. Canon) Pathways of Palestine : A Descriptive
Tour through the Holy Land. First Series. Illustrated by 44 Permanent
Photographs. 2 vols., folio, cloth extra, gilt edges, 3 1 s. 6J. each.

Tunis. See Reid.

Turner (Edward) Studies in Russian Literature. Cr. Svo, Ss. 6d.

T Ixion Jack (The). Every Boy's Paper. Edited by G. A.
^-J Henry. Profusely Illustrated with Coloured and other Slates.
Vol. I., 6s. Vols. II., III., IV-js. 6d. each.

Up Stream : A Journey from the Present to the Past. Pictures
and Words by R. Andre. Coloured Plates, 4to, 5^.

CELEBRATED TRAVELS and TRAVELLERS, s Vols., Demy

8vo, 600 pp. , upwards of 100 full-page Illustrations, 12s. 6rf. ;
gilt edges, teach : —

/. The Exploration of the World.
II. The Great Navigators of the Eighteenth Century.
III. The Great Explorers of the Nineteenth Century.

|j§F The letters appended to each book refer to the various Editions and Tricks

given at the foot of the page.
a e TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES UNDER THE SEA.
ae HECTOR SERVADAC.
ae TEE FUR COUNTRY.
af FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON, AND A TRIP

ROUND IT.
ae MICfclAEL STROOOFF, THE COURIER OF THE CZAR.
ae DICK SANDS, THE BOY CAPTAIN.
bed FIVE WEEKS IN A BALLOON.

bed ADVENTURES OF 3 ENGLISHMEN AND 3 RUSSIANS.
bed AROUND THE WORLD IN EIGHTY DAYS.
(f/A FLOATING CITY.
IrfTHE BLOCKADE RUNNERS.
d | DR. OX'S EXPERIMENT.

be
be

{ MASTER Zacharias.
,fA DRAMA IN THE AIR.
"(A WINTER AMID THE ICE.

\deTRK SURVIVORS OF THE " CHANCELLOR."
/./MARTIN PAZ.
bed THE CHILD OF THE CAVERN.

THE MYSTERIOUS ISLAND, 3 Vols. :—
bed I. DROPPED FROM THE CLOUDS.
bed II. ABANDONED.
bed III. SECRET OF THE ISLAND.
(rfTHE BEGUM'S FORTUNE.

I THE MUTINEERS OF THE "BOUNTY."
bed THE TRIBULATIONS OF A CHINAMAN.
THE STEAM HOUSE, 2 Vols. :—
bed I. DEMON OF CAWNPORE.
bed II. TIGERS AND TRAITORS.

THE GIANT RAFT, 2 Vols:—
b I. EIGHT HUNDRED LEAGUES ON THE AMAZON.
b II. THE CRYPTOGRAM.
b GODFREY MORGAN.
d THE GREEN RAY. Cloth, gilt edges, 6*. ; plain edges, 5s.

KERABAN THE INFLEXIBLE, 2 Vols. : —
b I. THE CAPTAIN OF THE Guiana.
b II. In the pressa
Small 8vo, very numerous Illustrations, handsomely bound in cloth, with gilt
edges, 10s. 6rf. ; ditto, plainer binding, 5*.

b Large imperial 16mo, very numerous Illustrations, handsomely bound in cloth,
with silt edges, 7*. 6d.

e Duty, plainer binding, 3*. 6d.

d Cheaper Edition, 1 Vol., paper boards, with some of the Illustration?, Is. ; bound
in cloth, gilt edges, 2s.

e Cheaper Edition as (<?), in 2 Vols., 1?. each ; bound in cloth, gilt edges, 1 Vol.,
3*. €d.
f S line as (e), exempt in cloth, 2 Vols., gilt edge 2s. each.

T/ELAZQL'EZ and Murillo. By C. B. Curtis. With
V Original Etchings. Royal Svo, 31J. 6d. ; large paper, cs.
Verne ( Jules) Keraban the Inflexible. Illustrated. Small post
Svo, cloth extra, gilt. ?s. ct.

Victoria (Queen) Life of By Grace Greenwood. With

numerous Illustrations. Small post Svo, 6s.

Vincent (F.) Norse, Lapp, and Finn. By Frank Vincent,
Tun, Author of "The Land of the White Elephant," "Through
and Through the Tropics," &c With Frontispiece and Map, Svo. lis.

Viollet-le-Duc (£.) Lectures on Architecture. Translated by
BENJAMIN BUCKNALL, Architect. With 33 Steel Plates and 200
Wood Engravings. Super-royal Svo, leather back, gilt top, 2 vols., 3/. 3^.

Vivian (A. F.) Wanderings in the Western Land. 3rd Ed., ios.6d.

Voyages. See McCormick.

TJ/AHL (Jf. II.) Galzanoplastic Manipulation for the
' Electro Plater. Svo, 35*

Wallace (L.) Ben Bur: A Tale of the Christ. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Walter (Rev. C. H.) The Names on the Gates of Pearl,

and other Studies. By the Rev. C. H. Waller, M.A. New

Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3-r. 6J.
A Grammar and Analytical Vocabulary of the Words in

the Greek Testament. Compiled from Ruder's Concordance. For

the use of Divinity Students and Greek Testament Classes. Part I.

Grammar. Small post Svo, cloth, is. 6d. Part II. Vocabulary, zs. 6d.
Adoption and the Covenant. Some Thoughts on

Confirmation. Super royal imo, cloth limp, 2s. ct.

Silver Sockets; and other Shadows of Redemption.

Sermons at Christ Church, Hampstead. Small post Svo, 6s.
Warner (C. D.) Back-log Studies. Boards, is. 6d. ; cloth, 2S.
Washington Irving' s Little Britain. Square crown Svo, 6s.
Watson (P. B.) Marcus Aurelius Antoninus. Port. Svo, 155-.
Webster. (American Men of Letters.) imo, 2s. 6d.
Weismann (A.) Studies in the Theory of Descent. With a

Preface by the late Charles Darwin, and numerous Coloured Plates.

2 vols., Svo, 40J.
Wheaten (H. B.) and Melmotte (P. H.) Art Work in Force-lain.

Large Svo, 2s. 6J.
Art Work in Gold and Silver. Modern. Large 8vo,

2S. 6J.

Handbook of Decorative Art. 10s. 6d.

White (R. G.) England Without and Within. New Edition,
crown 8vo, I or. 6/.

Every-day English, crown 8vo, vos. 6d.

White (R. G.) Fate of Mansfield Humphreys, with the Episode
of Mr. Washington Adams in England, and an Apology. Crown
8vo, 6s.

Words and their uses. New Edit., crown 8vo, 10s. 6d.

Whittier (f. G.) The King's Missive, and later Poems. imo,
choice parchment cover, 3s. 6d.

The Whittier Birthday Book. Extracts from the

Author's writings, with Portrait and Illustrations. Uniform with the
"Emerson Birthday Book." Square imo, very choice binding, y. 6 /.
Life of By R. A. Underwood. Cr. 8vo, cloth, 105. 6d.

Wild Flowers of Switzerland. With Coloured Plates, life-size,

from living Plants, and Botanical Descriptions of each Example.

Imperial 4to, 63s. nett.
Williams (C. F.) Tariff Laws of the United States. 8vo, 10*. 6d.
Williams {H. IV.) Diseases of the Eye. 8vo, 21*.
Williams (M.) Some London Theatres: Past and Present.

Crown 8vo, Js. 6d.
Wills, A Few Hints on Proving, without Professional Assistance,

By a Probate Court Official. 7th Edition, revised, with Forms

of Wills, Residuary Accounts, &c. Cap. 8vo, cloth limp, U.
Winckelmann john) History of Ancient Art. Translated by

JOHN Lodge, M.D. Man Plates and Illustrations. 2 vols., 8vo. 36.C
Winks ( W. £.) Lives of Illustrious Shoemakers. W T with eight

Portraits. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d.
Witthaus {R. A.) Medical Student's Manual of Chemistry.

8vo, 16s.
Woodbury {Geo. E.) History of Wood Engraving. Illustrated,

8vo, iSs.
Wolsey (C. L>., LL.D.) Introduction to the Study of International

Law ; designed as an Aid in Teaching and in Historical

Studies. 5th Edition, demy 8vo, i8x.
Wilson constance F) See " Low's Standard Novels."
Wright rev. H.) Friendship of God. With Biogra pineal

Preface by the Rev. E. H. Bickersteth, Portrait, &c. Crown 8vo, 6s.

FRIAR TE charles) Florence: its History. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Illustrated with 500 Engravings. Large imperial
4to, extra binding, gilt edges, 63^.; or 12 Parts, $s. each.

History ; the Medici ; the Humanists ; letters ; arts ; the Renaissance ;
illustrious Florentines; Etruscan art; monuments; sculpture; painting.

Morton:

SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & Livingston,
CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET, E.C-

^^

*m

mi

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS


v. 2.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/jackscourtshipsa02russ

A SAILOR'S YARN OF LOVE AND
SHIPWRECK.

BY

W. CLAEK Russell,

Author OF "THE ' Lady Maid'" "A SEA QUEEN,'

IX Thee VOLUMES.
Vol IT.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, Marston, Searle & RIVIXGTOX,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1884.

.1// rights reserved.)

PRINTED BT WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET And CHARING Cross.

CHAVXZB PAGE

I. The " Stratford " ^ . . . 1

II. Hoodwinking . . . . 23

III. I EMBARK . . . . . M

IV. Night in the River . . , 56

A*. Mb. Morecomre m Sea-sick . . . 88

VI. With my Love 103

VII. Mb. Hobeoohbe is Very III . . . 119

VIII. Down Channel . , . . 135

IX. 1 breakfast with Florence . . . 155

X. Mr. Mokecombe »;oes Ashore . . 175

XI. Aunt Damaris is Confidential . . 191

XII. Half a Gale of Wind . . . 215

XIII. 1 bate a Child's Life . . . 230

XIV. Florence confesses . . . 258

XV. In the North-east Trades . . . 290

XVI. A Dead Calm 309

XVII. On the Equator . . . . 331

CHAPTER I.

THE " Stratford."

A good proof of the interest my uncle took in my
proposal to ship along with Florence and go to sea
with her was in a letter I received next morning
from him, enclosing a cheque for one hundred
pounds. " My dear Jack' he wrote, " the
accompanying money will enable you to pay your
passage out, and lay in a stock of shirts and
toothpick for the voyage. Let us have no thanks
no nonsense. Just pay the draft into your bank,
if you have one, and belay all jaw about it unless
you want me to think you a swab, which is a term
I think you object to. You'll be giving us a call
soon, I hope. Yours, Uncle." — There also arrived
a long letter from Sophie in answer to the
lamentations I had poured out to her two days

VOL. II. v, B

before. The dear girl had evidently taken a great
deal of trouble in writing this reply, for there
were no less than seven quotations from five poets,
whose works it must have been no joke to her
to overhaul for the lines, all of which were
very apt and bore fully upon the state of my
heart ; and moreover she was exceedingly poetical
on her own account, as for example, when she
assured me that love was a plant which tears were
invented to keep green, and that if Florence and I
were truly attached, Mr. Alphonso Hawke might
cause all the seas of the world not only to roll
between us but over us without washing away our
affection. She gave me some news which was
more interesting to me than the poetry, namely,
that Mr. Hawke, his sister and daughters, had
arrived at Clifton Lodge on the previous day, and
that a Miss Booth had told her that Colonel Jones
had said to her father that Mr. Hawke had told
him that his daughter would be leaving Clifton for
Australia in about three weeks' time. I say that
this news was interesting to me because it proved
that up to the present, at all events, no change
had come over the spirit of Alphonso's intentions.

I wrote a few words of thanks to my uncle for
his handsome gift, and a letter to Sophie, the
production of which afflicted me with a lively sense
of hypocrisy, as, in order not to excite suspicion, I
had to write as if Florence's going rendered me

inconsolable. However, if it is possible to conceive
any sort of deception forgivable, I think mine was.
ungrateful as it might appear, for it was practised
at the request of my uncle, who very properly did
not want his wife and daughter to have any
knowledge of the blow I was aiming at old Hawke's
schemes.

Two days after my chat with my uncle at the
hotel, I determined to take a run down to the
East India Docks and have a look at the Stratlimore.
But first I thought it advisable to call on my way
at the offices of the Company, and ascertain if
Aunt Damarifl and Florence had booked their
passage. Arrived at Fenchurch Street I entered
the offices of Duncan, Golightly, & Co., and as I
stood at the broad counter, behind which half a
dozen of clerks were hard at work, the sense of my
old life came up in me so strong that I felt as if
my calling was still that of a sailor, and that I was
here to obtain a berth. There was one old chap
I remembered, the others were strangers. The old
fellow looked at me through his spectacles, but did
not recognize me, and went on with his work. A
young man came to the counter, and I said, " You
have a ship advertised to sail on the 28th ? "

"Yes, sir."

Does she call at Plymouth ? "

"No. Passengers must embark at the Docks
or Gravesend."

I expect some friends-will take cabins in that
vessel, and if they go I shall accompany them. Is
your cuddy full? "

No, sir ; there are still three cabins vacant."

Give me the names of the people who have
already booked, will you ? I want to know if my
friends are among them."

What are their names, sir ? "

Miss Damaris Hawke and Miss Florence
Hawke."

He looked at a pile of letters, and presently
pulled out a sheet of paper, gilt-edged, adorned
with Alphonso's old gander, and after glancing
over it said, " Miss Damaris Hawke and Miss
Florence Hawke, No. 6 cabin. The first-named
lady arrived home in the vessel last voyage, and
occupied the cabin she now applies for." He then
laid a plan of the saloon before me with the cabins
numbered. There was a row of six cabins of a
side and two aft, the one on the port side being the
captain's ; the two forward berths facing each other
and coming just under the break of the poop were
occupied respectively by the first and second mates.
This, then," said I, putting my finger on No. 6
that is, the one next the captain's, right aft —
"is the cabin that has been taken by the two
ladies you name. Which are the berths still tolet?"


He indicated them.

"Til go and have a look at the ship," said I.
'• What's the charge for one of these cabins ? "

Sixty-two pound ten."

Do I get the cabin to myself for that ? " I
asked. He answered that that would depend.
The company only guaranteed exclusive use on
payment of such and such a sum (I forget what
it was). "I'll save my money and take my
chance," said I, "of there being more cabins than
passengers, in which case of course I shall have
the berth to myself?" He answered, "Yes,
certainly."

Are the ladies sure of taking No. 6 ? "

Sure," he replied. "Half the passage money
was sent with the application."

My heart came into my throat when I heard
this.

Tell me now," said I, " if the Captain
Thompson I see advertised as the commander of
the Stratford is the Daniel Thompson who was
some years ago second mate of your ship the
Montrose."

He went to the clerk in the spectacles and
repeated my question. The old fellow said " Yes,"
without looking up.

Is he in London ? " I inquired.

Yes, sir, and if you're going down to the docks
at once you'll probably find him about. If you
like, I'll accompany you and show you the ship."

I thanked lira and said I believed I could find
my way there without assistance, and so quitted
the office. I was in joyous spirits as I made my
way to the railway station in Fenchurch Street.
The fact of the cabin having been secured for Aunt
Damaris and Florence, and half the fare paid,
made me realize the meaning of the adventurous
job "I was on to a degree I had not approached
before. For three months certain should I be
associated with my darling, week after week, day
after day, and my heart beat high in me as with
the rapidity of thought I drew a score of pictures
of our rapturous communion, in gales and calms,
in heat and cold, under skies of brass and nights
soft and sweet with moonlight and dew. And a
mighty vigorous imagination I must have had even
to come near to anything poetical in Fenchurch
Street Station. The roadway was filled with a
crowd of grimy fellows, turnpike sailors, loafing
scarecrows as bad as the worst specimens of the
ragamuffins I have seen shivering in shipping-yards
and scrawling their hatred of captains and
owners upon benches and whitewashed walls. It
took me back some years when I got upon the
platform and looked at the people who were
waiting for the train ; mates in velvet waistcoats,
skippers with red faces and a consequential strut
smoking cigars, seamen of divers nationalities,
some with white bags, some with all they had in

the world wrapped up in a red or blue handkerchief
; Dutchmen grunting like pigs, negroes with
a bland grin on their black faces as the' stared
about them, and English Jack, drunk, shoving, and
noisy. I say the sight took me back some years,
and it wanted little to persuade me that my chest
and bedding were aboard, and that I was bound
along with the others for the "pier-head jump."

Presently a Blackwell train arrived, a lot of
people tumbled out, and I took my seat in a first-class
carriage that smelt like the parlour of a
public-house after a night's orgy. Just as we were
about to start, the door was flung open and a man
bundled in. I was full of thought and hardly
glanced at him. Presently he said, " Very genteel
rolling stock they have on this line, sir. But I
suppose anything's good enough for sailors. Do
you object to my lighting a pipe to kill the
fragrance in this atmosphere?"

'• Not at all," said I, looking at him hard, struck
by his voice, in which I fancied I could catch a
note that was familiar to me.

He was a rather short squarely built man of
about forty-five years of age, with reddish whiskers
and beard that half circled his face as though you
should cut a trumpet of rope in half and pass it
under your chin with the ends against your ears ;
his face was the reddest I ever saw on a man, and
rendered peculiar by the colour lying in lines and

blotches, so that when you took a close squint at
him, his skin seemed to be covered with a red lace
veil with the meshes thickened in places. He had
fine honest laughing eyes and a heartily cheerful
expression of countenance, and was in his way the
completest figure of a merchant seaman one could
imagine, dressed in dark blue cloth and a cap with
a shovel-shaped peak to it. Finding me staring at
him, he began to stare at me, meanwhile groping
in his side pockets for his pipe and tobacco. At last
I said, " Six years ago I was shipmate with a second
mate aboard the Montrose named Daniel Thompson.
If you are not he, then you are the devil."

"Daniel Thompson is my name," said he, " and
six years ago I was second mate aboard the Montrose,
and — why, heart alive oh ! you're Jack
Seymour ! " and, with a sailor's warmth, he flung
down his pipe and tobacco-pouch, jumped into the
seat opposite me, and grasped both my hands.
"Think of my not knowing you!" cried he.
But then you've grown a moustache and you're
a foot taller, and who the blazes would recognize
Jack Seymour in those shore-going duds ? "

This is a strange meeting, Thompson," said I.
"Will you believe it — I was actually bound inquest
of you. I am going to the docks to have a
look at your Stratkmore. Do you know I am
thinking of sailing with you ? "

Sailing with me ! " he exclaimed, letting go my

hands and returning to his pipe; "why, I heard
that you had knocked off the sea some years ago —
come into an estate — and was living up to the
hammer somewhere or other.' 1

"Oh"' said I, laughing, "don't suppose I'm
going to sea with you as a sailor. I'm thinking
of taking a cabin in your ship for a voyage to
New South Wales. I saw your name in the
advertisement as skipper, and just now called at
the office of the Company to make sure of you.
They told me I should find you aboard."

"I hope you'll come with me; I hope you'll
come!" cried he in his hearty fashion. "We'll
find many a yarn to spin together — many a talk
over old days. But what in the name of Moses
takes you to sea again, even as passenger ?
Didn't you get enough of salt water in your time ?
Only let somebody leave me an estate," said he,
lighting his pipe, " and there's never a house
agent in the United Kingdom who could find me
& dwelling deep enough inland."

I'll tell you presently why I am going to sea
again," I replied. "But first let's hear of yourself.
Are you married? are you saving money? how
long have you been skipper ? "

He answered these questions by a story that
carried us to Blackwell, but though I kept on
nodding and saying "Oh!" and " Really ! " and
Indeed ! " I am sure I did not give his yam all

the attention he believed it was receiving. The
truth is, my mind was so busy with my own affairs
that I could think of nothing else ; though I took in
enough of what he said to gather that he was
married and had a couple of youngsters, that his
wife had a trifle of money, and that he had commanded
the Stratford two years.

We sallied forth arm in arm, he jabbering incessantly,
and, after walking a bit, came abreast
of a ship whose name I did not need to inquire. I
stopped to have a look. There in front of me lay
the counterpart of the vessel in whose heart I had
passed many a long month; whose masthead I
had watched swaying under stars which no
northern dweller ever beholds, whose massive
shrouds had shrieked back the refrain of the
Cape Horn hurricane, whose topmost canvas had
glimmered like dissolving wreaths of vapour amid
the breathless gloom of the hushed tropical night.

"What are you stopping for?" shouted Thompson.
" What do you see that you're staring aloft ?
Anything wrong there ? "

See ! " cried I ; " why, the picture of my old
life, Daniel ; the old business of the lonely watch,
the streaming decks, the bunk under which I used
to grope for my boots when the horrid shout of
1 Eight bells ! ' awoke me from dreams of featherbeds
and soft tack and mutton-chops for breakfast.
What a jolly life the sailor's 'is, Thompson ! Why,

I'd rather be a rat in jour lazarette than go
through it again ; and yet, hang me if the sight of
that craft of yours don't infuse a sort of tenderness
into me, too, though, for all I know, her iron ribs
may' be only one degree removed from the ore, and
her timber planking as rotten as an old Stilton
cheese."

Don't you go and make any mistake of that
kind, my young friend," exclaimed Thompson.
Rotten ! Why, as a matter of strength, the
Tower of London's a joke to that ship ; and as to
her angle frames being one degree removed from
the ore, there's nothing wanting but a little
grinding to convert them into the loveliest razors
in the world. But come aboard, man, come
aboard ! " and we stepped along the plank over the
side and sprang on to the deck.

A dock is to a ship what a dressing-room is to
a lady, and you must expect dishevelment until
she sallies forth into her ocean-world, when you
will find her dressed in the latest fashion, painted
and sparkling, and dropping many a handsome
curtsey as she goes. The Strath more' s topgallant
and royal yards were down, all her sails unbent,
and the running gear unrove; the yards wore
braced fore and aft, there were lumpers at work in
her hold, and grimy faces grinned at you over the
combings of the main hatch ; a crane alongside
was slinging cases of merchandize into her, and

her main deck was a surface of straw, dirt, wet,
and what sailors call raffle. But just as a pretty
wench with tousled hair, dirty face, befouled frock,
and little toes peeping out of her yawning boots,
preserves her prettiness and takes the eye in spite
of her squalid attire, so did the Stratford offer to
the experienced gaze every point of a handsome,
powerful clipper ship, notwithstanding her grimy
decks, her disordered yards, the nakedness of her
upper spars, her rigged-in jibboom. She was, as
the advertisement about her said, a composite
ship — that is, built of iron frames covered with
wood. She was slightly longer than the Portia,
with a trifle less of beam, and had the reputation
of being a very fast sailer, though what is termed
a wet ship. This indeed might have been guessed
by looking at her bows, which were almost like
a yacht's, with hardly any perceptible swell or
flaring." Her lower masts were painted white ;
she had channels, though even then those appendages
for spreading wide the lower rigging were
going out of date, and chequered sides — a broad
white band running the length of her, broken with
painted ports, so that with her square stern
decorated with a row of cabin windows, short
royal masthead, and exceedingly square yards,
she might at a distance have passed for a frigate.

Thompson, however, gave me very little time to
look about : for after taking a squint down the

main hatchway and bawling out some question to
the people below, he again seized my arm and
walked me into the cuddy, as the saloon under the
poop was formerly called. This was a fine sweep of
cabin, most handsomely decorated, with maple
panelling and stanchions cased in satinwood,
superbly fluted and gilded, whilst as much as was
revealed of the mizzen mast was cased so as to resemble
a Corinthian column, abaft of which a pianoforte
was secured. A very handsome staircase led
into the steerage on the lower deck, and on either
side were the cabins or berths ; whilst overhead
were two large skylights, racks full of glass for the
tories, globes for gold-fish, together with a row of
brightly burnished swinging trays hanging over the
tables, which were shaped like the letter T> one
running athwart ships atop and the other coming
down nearly the whole length of the cuddy. I am
no upholsterer or house decorator, and cannot talk
to you about this interior in such a way as to make
you understand what a radiant, breezy drawing-room
of a place it was ; but I often recall it and
other passenger ship saloons I have peeped into
when I hear of the splendours of the present age in
that way, and wonder that there should be so much
brag about us, really as though in magnificence of
marine decoration we had gone leagues ahead, and
clean out of sight of our ancestors : the truth being
that many a long year before my time, in the days

of John Company's ships and the castle-like West
India traders, the cabins, hired by old Nabobs and
opulent planters at an immense cost, were a perfect
blaze of costly furniture, as let noble Tom Cringe
certify, who, in speaking of a vessel that he boarded
of five hundred tons, rattles away about panels fitted
with crimson cloth, edged with gold mouldings, and
superb damask hangings before the stern windows
and side berths, and plate-glass mirrors, and
brilliant swinging lamps, and a splendid grand
piano, and a rudder-case richly carved and gilded
to resemble a palm tree, '''the stem painted
white and interlaced with golden fretwork, like
the lozenges of a pine-apple, while the leaves
spread up and abroad on the roof," and so on and
so on. Faith, I often think there is a deal of the
swab in our natures : we barely allow our forefathers
the smallest merit, and, standing on tiptoe,
crow as if we bantams were the only Cochin-china
creation had produced. Why, who shall swear
that at this moment some poor little creature is not
writing a book to prove that Trafalgar was a twopenny
business, and that it would need the blue-jackets
of the present day to make a battle of that
job? Is not Shakespeare overrated, and is there
no poet amongst us capable of better work? Is
Wellington a patch upon the living splendid
generals whose breasts are one glorious constellation
of medals and orders ?

But let me haul off from these distracting reflections
before I lose my temper and grow personal ;
for hang me if I'm not already in the humour,
mates, to give you an idea of what honest disgust
sounds like ! "Well, as I have said, Daniel Thompson
marched me through the cuddy, past the
mizzen-mast, and the piano, and the stove, into
his cabin, the door of which he closed, and overhauling
a locker took from it a box of cigars and
four fat bottles, and then producing some glasses,
pointed to the cigar-box and afterwards to a chair,
and said, " Now, Mr. Jack Seymour, make yourself
at home, sir." This I did without parley, helping
myself to a glass of excellent liquor and lighting a
cigar. He did likewise, and in a few minutes we lay
sprawling upon the lockers talking like brothers.

•'This is the sort of cabin to go to sea in,
Daniel"' said I, casting my eyes round ; " room to
grope about in when something you want fetches
away and gets lost, and a good view of the world
out of those back windows. Is the cabin alongside
just as roomy? "

Just the same size," he answered.

•' They told me at the office that it's taken by a
Miss Damaris Hawke."

"Oho!" said he, " that's the lady that came
home with us this time, and she's going out with
us again, eh ? She's a rum old fish ; only wants a
pea-jacket to make her a sailor. Coming on deck

one night in the tropics she stepped aft and found
the man at the wheel nodding, whereupon, hang
me, Seymour, if she didn't take him by the arm
and shake him, and ask him if he knew where he
was going. The man fell to abusing her — he was
a little Dane — and the shindy brought the second
mate to them. I laughed till I cried when he told
me the story, and ever after the hands called her
Lady Damn-heredes, and put her into their songs.
D'ye know her ? " said he suddenly, as if struck by
my face.

"Thompson," said I, "Til tell you all about it
why I'm interested in Miss Damaris Hawke, why
I'm going to Australia, why' I choose this ship.
But it's a profound secret, Daniel : a matter that
concerns my very senses, for if I'm dished I shall
go mad. On your honour as an old shipmate
you'll stow what I'm about to tell you as deep down
into your silence and confidence as it'll go ? "

"Well," he replied, laughing, "so long as it
don't involve any scuttling or stranding or firing
job, you may trust me."

Thereupon, without any further preface I told
him the whole story. How I had gone to Clifton
on a visit to some relatives and fallen in love with
Florence Hawke: how her father wanted her to
marry another man named Reginald Morecombe,
whose offer she had refused : how Aunt Damaris
had arrived from Sydney and, as I supposed,

recommended her brother to send Florence with
her to Australia as a good way of getting rid of rne :
how, as I had no occupation, nothing in the world
to do, I had made up my mind to go to Australia
with her, and how my resolution had been completed
by discovering that the ship whose name
Florence had mentioned was commanded by an
old shipmate and friend.

He listened as attentively and gravely as if I
was talking to him on freights and bills of lading,
and when I had done said, "I understand, Jack;
but is the girl worth the trouble you are going to
take ? M

Stop till you see her," said I.

Is she fond of you ? " he asked.

I think she is," I replied.

And I suppose," said he, " that you reckon
upon getting her to promise to marry you on your
arrival at Sydney."

I nodded, for there was no use in telling him that
this voyage was only undertaken by me as part of
a somewhat forlorn courtship.

"I'm afraid," said he, "you'll find the aunt a
big mouthful as a pill. Does your sweetheart
know you intend to join her ? "

No ; nothing has been said — nobody but my
uncle and you are aware of my intention. I'll get
you to tell her I'm aboard when we're clear of the
river."

VOL. II. c

He grinned and exclaimed, "I suppose yon don't
mind trusting me now that you know I have a wife.
I wondered at your curiosity when you asked me if
I was married ; but I understand your fears. I
was a very suspicious man myself when I was in
love."

I laughed as I looked at his jolly bright-red face,
and observed the self-complacency in it.

"But," continued he, "you're giving me, as
skipper of this vessel, a rum commission. I hope
when I've told her you're aboard you'll do the rest
of the business yourself. I'm no hand at messages.
I never could talk soft, and when I asked my girl
to marry me, all I could find to say was, ' Susie,
shall we get spliced? Say the word, and when
you're ready there'll be a cab at the door with mein
it.' After all," said he, "plain talk is better
than romancing. A woman knows what you mean
when you sheer alongside of her, and would much
rather you should speak out than humbug with her
hands and keep her waiting."

"Your views are very correct," said I. "But
every man has not your sense. Daniel, there's one
thing I shall have to do. I wish it were not necessary,
but I don't see my way without it."

What ? " he asked.

I shall have to ship under an assumed name.
I'll tell you why. Aunt Damaris has never seen
me ; but she would instantly guess who I am if

she were to hear of me as Jack Seymour ; and
if she's a person capable of giving a seaman a
talking to, 3*011 may depend on it she would
furnish me with even less opportunity of being
with my darling than I should find if we all remained
at Bristol."

That's quite true," said he. " If you ship as
Brown or Jones, you can talk and walk with your
sweetheart without exciting the aunt's suspicions —
unless, indeed, you pile on your attentions too
thick."

I'll not do that," said I ; "at all events, whilst
she's looking."

There's no reason," said he, "why 3-011 shouldn't
take an alias. It's the usual thing with murderers,
and forgers, and thieves, and why not with lovers ?
But I say, Se T your, whatever surname you take,
please stick to your Christian handle, for I'm sure
to call you Jack when I'm not thinking, and if
you ship as Alfred or William, the slip will be
awkward."

"Let's settle a name at once," said I. "Give
me something that'll come easy to 3~ou."

Anything in two Syllables will do for me," he
answered ; " what do you think of Johnson ?

"Too common," I replied. "If Aunt Damans
resemble her brother, she respects blood — you know
what blood is, don't you, Daniel ? "

I've heard of it," he replied. " It belongs to

the upper circles, don't it, and is rarely to be found
in anything much lower than a squire."

As I was saying, if the aunt respects blood it'll
be worth while to impress her. I wish you'd allow
me three syllables, Daniel."

"Well, I don't mind three," said he; "but whatever
it is, let it be pronounced as it's spelt. We
brought home a man last voyage called Majoris
When I saw the name written, dash my
wig if I didn't think he was in the army, and I
kept calling him Major Banks until, growing
annoyed, he rounded on me with, ' Excuse me,
Captain, my name is Merchants.' No doubt the
correct thing to do with a major is to make him
march," said he, grinning from ear to ear over his
vile pun, "but if major's to be called march, why
isn't it spelt march ? "

"What do you think of Trevelyan?" said I.
He reflected, and said he doubted if he should be
able to remember it, and asked me to give him
something in the nautical line. But nothing that
I could think of as belonging to a ship or the sea
would satisfy me ; so, after a number of suggestions,
we fixed upon Egerton, as having an aristocratic
sound and being easy to pronounce.

On the whole, my friend-did not seem so much
astonished by my scheme as I had expected ; but
this might be because sailors see so many strange
things, and pass through so many curious adventures,

that the faculty of being amazed is soon
worn out in them. We continued for some time
talking about the voyage and Miss Damaris Hawke
and other matters ; and I then went to look at the
unlet cabins, and, after peering and considering,
decided upon taking No. 4, it being the roomiest of
those which remained untired, and for that reason
safe to choose on the chance of some fellow
sharing it with me.

Will you come aboard in the docks or at
Gravesend ? " asked Thompson.

In the docks," I replied. " If the Hawkes
don't join you at Gravesend, we may take it that
they are not going to Australia in the Stratford"

"Ay," he replied, "for when we leave Gravesend
we go clean away to Australia, I hope. You may
certainly take it as you say, that if they don't join
the ship at Gravesend they've either postponed the
voyage or abandoned it."

Then, of course, I shall go ashore again,"
said I.

What ! " cried he, " forfeit your passage-money
and the delight of eighty or ninety days of sea and
my society ! "

I laughed and said, "But there's no use supposing
they won't come. Hawke's not a man to
send your Company a cheque unless he meant to
get something for it."

"If it is to depend upon the aunt," he said,

"you need not fear of being disappointed. She
likes the ship and she likes me, and I now recollect
that when we were in the Channel she asked me
if there was any chance of my taking the same
mates and stewards next time, as she thought the
former very safe gentlemen to sail with, and the
stewards she considered extremely attentive. That
looks as if she had made up her mind even then.
Depend upon it, she'll come if she can."

I asked who the mates were, but he gave me
names which were unknown to me. I then took
a turn over the vessel, and having spent pretty
nearly two hours aboard, I bade my old shipmate
good-b} T e, begging him as he valued my happiness
and prospects to behave with extreme circumspection
when I joined the vessel ; never on any account
to let it be supposed that I had been at sea as a
sailor, but to let the passengers imagine that he
called me Jack because we had known each other
as boys ; and I wound up by asking him to come
and spend a day with me at the West End. But
this he said he could not manage, as his wife and
children were in the country, and he meant to passa
few days with them, and when he returned his
hands would be too full of business for visiting.

CHAPTER II.

HOODWINKING.

I will spare you an account of the thoughts with
which I beguiled my ride home and the various
reflections which kept me as restless as a buoy ina
seaway. So far everything had been plain sailing
; Daniel Thompson had proved to be my old
shipmate, and the man of all others whom I would
have chosen to go to sea with on such an errand as
mine ; a berth had been secured by Aunt Damaris
and Florence, and half the passage-money paid;
and the only fly in this pleasant pot of ointment
with which I was greasing the ways of my courtship
was the fear that at the last moment Hawke might
change his mind and keep Florence at home.

However, my business was to go on steering
a straight course and take my chance of the wind
holding steady; and accordingly, on my return
home from the docks, I forwarded the necessary
deposit money to Duncan, Golightly, & Co. for
cabin No. 4, and signed myself " John Egerton,"
feeling a trifle uncomfortable perhaps as I did

so, though surely my conscience was needlessly
sensitive, for I was as guiltless of all wrongdoing
in assuming a name as an actor who puts on a
wig and runs upon the stage and calls himself the
Duke of Gloucester.

A few days after I had visited the Stratford
I went down to Clifton. Hearty as was my respect
for my uncle's character, I never could think of
him as a man capable of holding his peace, and I
was in constant fear that he would betray my
project to his wife, and that the news would reach
Florence, and perhaps old Hawke. But I was
mistaken ; he was as secret as the grave. He had
not only not given his wife or daughters the least
hint of the truth, but he assured me that he had
done his best to dismiss the thing from his own
mind, that he might humbug his conscience into
believing that he was as ignorant as the others.

I want," says he, " to be able not only to look
but to feel innocent when the truth comes out, so
that should Mr. Hawke call upon me or send me an
impertinent letter, I shall be able to talk to him
with the sense of being an injured man."

This policy in him suited me perfectly, and I
begged him to ask me no more questions about my
schemes, " for the more I talk," said I, "the more
you are obliged to know ; whereas if nothing be
said you cannot be sure, even whilst we now converse,
that I am still bent on going to Australia."

You're right," he replied, " and so we'll
confine ourselves to Punch and Judy or the
weather ; " though for all that his curiosity was so
sharp set that I believe he would have been glad
to take his chance of his conscience had I offered
him the least encouragement to make inquiries.

However, as I have said, it answered my purpose
very well to keep him silent and ignorant. I was
a bachelor, but I knew what married people are,
and how if a wife comes to suspect that her husband
is hiding anything from her she will never rest till
she has it out of him. But I had a very difficult
part to play with Sophie ; so difficult that it drove
me back to London next day and determined me
to visit them no more this side my voyage, though
but for that I should have been glad to eke out the
time that remained by spending a week at Clifton,
where I could have kept myself posted in all the
latest news about the Hawkes' movements. The
fact is, both Sophie and Amelia expected to find
me miserably disconsolate, and I reckoned that
Florence would either suspect my sincerity as a
lover or guess that I had some scheme on hand
if I was not reported to her by my cousins as being
broken down. Consequently I had to put on the
air of a man whose heart is bleeding, and no
harder job did I ever undertake, especially whenever
my uncle, who saw into my motive, was
looking, for there would be a grin in the cock of

this eye that made a sentimental countenance an
enormous achievement.

Yet somehow I managed so well that my
cousins honestly believed I was in a wretched state
of mind, and Sophie did all she could to cheer me.
She told me (the moment she had an opportunity
of speaking to me alone) that she had met Florence
soon after her return from the North in company
with her sister, who was in a Bath chair, and
had walked with her for nearly half an hour,
scarcely noticing Emily, who was very cool, and
talking to Florence in order to get all the news she
could for me.

"I hope you told her," said I, in my most
melancholy manner, "that her going to Australia
was an awful blow to me."

"I did, Jack," she replied. "I said that if
your heart was not broken outright it was because
you believed that separation would not alter her,
and that she would bring back the same loving
loyal heart she took with her and renew your
chance of proving your devotion. ' Before I come
back,' said she, ' I dare say he will have found
out that he mistook his feelings ; he is very young,
Sophie. And indeed,' said she, sighing so prettily,
Jack, ' he ought not to wait nor give me a thought
when I am gone, for who knows whether I shall
ever return?' "

I groaned so heavily at this that for the moment

I was afraid from the look Sophie gave me that
she considered it almost too full of anguish to he
honest. But an uneasy conscience is always
putting wrong constructions upon things.

I answered," continued Sophie, " that though
you were young you were old enough to he staunch,
and I begged her not to leave England without
giving me some token for 3*011 to remember herby
— something for you to go on wearing until she
came back."

"What did she say to that ? " I asked.

Why, that she would send me something for
you ; it hasn't come yet, but the moment it arrives
you shall have it."

This moved me to a degree that made the
tremor in my voice real enough. Indeed I was
as much touched by this proof of Sophie's fidelity
to me as I was stirred and affected by Florence's
promise as an indication that I had made greater
progress into the darling's heart than I had dared
to hope. I squeezed niy cousin's hand and thanked
her tenderly for her suggestion to Florence, and
then asked if there was any chance of Mr. Hawke
changing his mind and keeping his daughter at
home. No; she was afraid that there was no chance
at all. Florence had told her that every preparation
was being made for the voyage, their cabin
was secured and they would join the ship at
Gravesend. Sbe said that Florence could not

make head nor tail of her father's resolution ; she
never remembered speaking about me or behaving
in any way to account for such an extreme step as
sending her all the way to Australia. The suggestion
came from Aunt Damaris, and was immediately
seized by Mr. Hawke ; and she could not
account for his conduct, for his willingness to lose
her society at home and subject her to the risk
of a long voyage, unless something more than
Mr. Jack Seymour was at the bottom of her father's
reasons for sending her away.

Did she give you any idea of what that something
more might be ? " I asked very anxiously.

No, she has no suspicion. For my part, I
believe her father's sole motive is to separate her
from you. She declares that she has never said
anything about you to him to account for his
alarm. But how does she know? Feelings will
leak out insensibly ; her father may see more than
she herself suspects she shows or even possesses.
The wonder to me is that Florence should make
no stand ; that she shouldn't bluntly refuse to be
driven to the other end of the world. But I suppose
she is sincere when she says she likes the idea of
revisiting Sydney, and no doubt she is not very
happy at home just now : and then, again, she
shows proper dignity in coldly and uncomplainingly
obeying her papa and accompanying her
aunt. And who knows, Jack, that she would not

be willing to go to the North Pole if by making
such a journey she could get rid of that worrying,
fortune-hunting creature Morecombe ? "

At this point we were interrupted and had to
break off ; nor was I sorry, for it was desperately
hard to maintain an air of misery when alone with
Sophie, whose sympathy was bound to render her
uncommonly shrewd : and besides, conjectures as
to Hawke's intentions were exceedingly unprofitable,
seeing that all I required to be satisfied upon
was, that Aunt Damaris and Florence meant to
sail to Sydney in the Stratford.

Well, lads, as I have said, I returned to London
next day, because I was but a clumsy hand at
masquerading, and was sure that my cousins would
find me out if I did not look sharp and haul off.
Sophie seemed a good deal struck by niy impatience
to be gone, and expressed her surprise
that I did not stay, if only for the chance of seeing
Florence before she left England.

M Do yon think," cried I, " that I could say goodbye
to my darling who leaves with a misgiving
that we may never meet again ? Sophie, I could
not control myself — the trial would be too much
for me. No ! tell her, should you meet, why 1
hurried away : and above all let me have whatever
she desires me to remember her by when you
get it"'

Whether this satisfied Sophie I did not trouble

myself to find out. I knew that whatever might be
her thoughts I should right myself when she came
to hear that I had sailed with Florence in the
Stratford, and meanwhile my business was to
keep my plan secret. So before leaving my relations
I told my uncle not to expect to see me at
Clifton again, as the obligation to play a hypocritical
part was altogether too hard, and I felt
that every sham sigh I heaved was an outrage
upon Sophie's affectionate, faithful nature.

All right, my boy, do as you please," said he ;
•• but I hope you'll send us a letter from Gravesend
to let us know you're gone."

"Certainly," I answered.

sand, on reflection," he continued, "I think
you had better address your letter to me, telling me
your motive in going, and so on, as though I knew
nothing about it. It will be something to flourish
before old Hawke should he trouble me ; and it
will throw your aunt off the scent, for I don't
want her to know that I was all along in your
confidence."

This I promised to be sure to do, and then as we
were alone I bade him good-bye, for unless he came
to see me in London we should not meet again
before I sailed. I had never said farewell to my
father when I started on a voyage with more emotion
than I felt as I held my uncle's hand. And
yet so far as words went it came, between us, to no

more than a brief "God bless you." Nevertheless
I had to linger awhile to recover myself before
seeking my aunt and cousins ; and though there
was little apparent significance in my manner as I
took my leave of them, I assure you it was a bitter
wrench to say good-bye to Sophie lightly, as though
we were to see each other soon, when, could I have
had my way, I should have hugged her, and told
her we might not meet for months, and perhaps
years, and thanked her again and yet again for all
that she had done for me, for all she would like todo
for me, for her loyal good wishes and sisterly
pride in me.

And now, having got back to London, nothing
remained but to lay in a stock of such articles as I
required for the voyage, and wait for the 28th of
the month to arrive. I had not ruany arrangements
to make : indeed, the list was completed
when I had bought a good box upon which I had
John Egerton " painted, and put my clothes and
purchases in it, and when I had given notice to
quit my lodgings to the landlady. And note here :
it took me over half an hour to persuade the
woman that I was in earnest, and bound to the
other end of the world. I was so much a part of
her house that she had come to look upon me as
she did her front door and staircase, and when she
understood that I was in earnest and really going,
she sat down upon the floor and wept there.

It was on this day that the post brought me a
small parcel, which on opening I found to contain
a little square box and a letter. In the box was a
locket with a wisp of gold-brown hair coiled up in
it, and the letter was from Sophie telling me that
the locket was my sweetheart's parting gift. " I
may tell you," wrote Sophie, "that Florence quite
implied she would have liked to give you this herself,
by which you may judge she is not a little
disappointed, and perhaps pained, by what I had to
call your ' incapacity ' to bid her good-bye. However,
if she understands your reason and you are
satisfied, it is not for me to lecture you, though I
may as well declare, if I were going to Australia
and my lover had not the heart to say farewell tome,
I should leave with the feeling that if I chose
to fall in love with somebody else across the sea, I
might do so safely."

This was a snub to my tremendous young sincerity
that set me gaping to speak out, but I
restrained myself on reflecting that in a very few
days both she and Florence would know the truth.
So all that I did was to acknowledge the receipt of
the locket in a few lines, saying that my heart was
too full to write at length, and that the only answer
I could return to her reference to my incapacity to
say good-bye to Florence was to ask her to wait
until my darling girl came home, and then judge
whether I had remained staunch, and whether my

behaviour was of a kind to justify Florence in
falling in love with anybody else.

This letter being posted, I purchased a riband
for the locket, and hid the little keepsake away
under my waistcoat, so proud and happy in the
possession of this thing that I cannot recall my
delight without sorrowfully reflecting that before I
could ever again enjoy pleasure so pure my boyish
heart must return to me, and I must be loving my
first love as I loved her then, when the morning of
life was around and the shadows upon the dew
leaned into the west.

VOL, II.

Chapter III.

I EMBARK.

Monday, September 28, 18 . This was the day
fixed for the sailing of the Stratford, and I had
ascertained from the owners, to whom I had forwarded
the balance of the passage money, that if I
meant to join the ship in the docks I must be onboard
not later than eleven o'clock in the morning.
I had sent my luggage down on the previous
Friday, and, Monday being arrived, I bade my
landlady farewell, and, armed with a large carpetbag,
in which were stowed the few conveniences I
immediately required, I jumped into a cab and
was driven to Fenchurch Street Station. I had
had so much time in which to thoroughly think
over the resolution I had formed to accompany
Florence to Sydney, taking my chance of what
might follow when we were landed on Australian
soil, that, now that the hour I had so long looked
forward to was arrived and I had practically embarked,
as I may say, on my wild and singular

undertaking, I set about the job of joining the ship
with the same cool deliberateness of mind I should
have possessed had I been going in her as mate for
seven or eight pounds a month, or as a passenger
bound on some commercial errand.

It was about half-past ten o'clock when I reached
the ship, and the scene of life raised up in me such
a flavour of my old calling that I felt as if I had no
business to be going leisurely aboard, but ought to
be tumbling about the decks, shouting out orders,
and seeing all ready for hauling out of dock. The
Stratford was now in regular sea-going trim,
loaded down to well above the line of her yellow
sheathing, all yards across and the sails bent, the
long-boat full of live-stock, the hen-coops along the
poop crammed with poultry ; huge squares of compressed
hay (which flung a farmyard smell upon
the air), secured near the main rigging, blue peter
floating lazily at the fore, the Company's house flag
at the main, and the English ensign at the peak.
The main deck was full of people, steerage and
'tween-deck passengers and their friends conversing
in groups, and waiting for the inevitable signal
for separating. The scene was a familiar one tome,
and yet I found myself, as I stepped over the
gangway, glancing with perfectly fresh interest at
the old picture of here a young woman silently
crying ; there a family of father, mother, and little
-children gathered round the aged couple who had

made a weary journey to see the poor hearts off,
and who would find the return home wearier still ;
yonder an ill-clad man standing with his arms
folded, looking at the ships which lay around, his
haggard face giving you a good image of the dejected,
doubting, harassed mind inside him. The
Strathrnore was not an emigrant ship, but she had
accommodation in her 'tween decks, between the
steerage bulkhead and the mainmast, for a few
poor people who were charged emigrants' fares and
went out as emigrants ; and, consequently, her
deck on this day presented all the interest of an
emigrant vessel : and I don't know whether in all
this world there is any sight to equal the scene a
ship bound on a long voyage offers just before the
steam-tug lays hold of her, and whilst passengers
and their friends are mingled on her decks. There
are the little children gaping about them full of
wonder ; there are relatives holding on to one
another's hand in a grasp that once relaxed may
never again be felt ; you hear sounds of sobbing
and the painful echo of laughter between, the
hoarse voices of men, the sharp feverish chatter of
women striving to put as much talk as might fill
up a day into these last ten minutes ; and dock
officials yell directions to Jack who is sprawling
about on the forecastle, drunk, and singing and
grinning and lurching here and there, with a kind
of defiant rolling, as if he would have you take

notice that he for one doesn't mean to make a
blubbering job of this leave-taking; whilst overhead
the great spars and masts tower into the
dusty blue and look ponderous pieces of furniture
now that all the sea-gear is rove and the sails bent
and rolled up ; and they set you thinking of the
pallid heights of canvas they will be presently
uprearing, and of the night that shall come down
by-and-by upon the distant sea, amid which this
same ship will be heaving slowly, with never a
sound rising from her heart wherein those men and
women and children shall be slumbering, with a
thousand fathoms of water betwixt them and the
bottom of the black profound whose surface is full
of starlight.

I ran my eye along the poop, but did not
see Captain Thompson, and as the mates were
strangers to me, I thought I could not do better
than turn to and set my cabin in order, and write a
letter to my uncle ready for posting at Gravesend.
There was nobody at that moment in the cuddy,
though I could hear a stir in the steerage, the
sounds coming very plainly up the hatchway. 1
stood a moment looking along and, thought I, " If I
could see one of the stewards now, I would ask him
if the Hawkes' luggage was in their cabin ; " then
I said to myself, " Better not ask questions, Jack, for
you never can tell what may not set Aunt Damaris
putting two and two together. Look for yourself."

Whereupon, putting niy bag upon the table, I
marched to No. 6 cabin, knocked, received no
answer, tried the handle, found the door unlocked,
and peeped in.

A single glance was enough : one side of the
cabin was full of boxes, parcels, etc., with Miss I).
Hawke and Miss F. Hawke plainly painted or
written on them. The sight of these traps was
the same as seeing the owners, so far as the certainty
of their sailing in the Stratford was concerned
; and closing the door, I came away, picked
up my bag, and entered my own cabin.

The light was feeble, owing to the scuttle or
window being in the shadow of the quay wall, but,
nevertheless, I was able to see that I was not to
have the cabin to myself. Luggage that did not
belong to me stood near my box, and in the bunk
under mine was a collection of articles including a
waterproof coat, a gun-case, a bundle consisting of
an umbrella, a walking-stick, a sword-stick, etc. I
was a good deal disappointed, as I had reckoned
upon being alone. Evidently the Stratford was
taking out a full complement of passengers. The
consideration now was, what sort of companion
was I to have? A cheerful, amiable fellow, whose
society would be a pleasure, or a sea-sick growling
old hunks whose company would be a perpetual
affliction ?

I peered at the things in the bunk, and then

noticing a name painted on the top of a box somewhat
resembling mine, I bent down to see what it
was, and read in large white letters :

"Reginald Morecombe, Esq.,

Cabin Passenger. Per Stratkmore"

I could hardly credit my senses. I stood up and
stared around me, then took another squint at the
card, and, lost in amazement, looked at the traps
in the bunk, and came once more to the card.
Reginald Morecombe ! " There it was plain
enough, and I stood erect, absolutely unbounded.
But, stop ! how w r as I to be sure without seeing the
fellow that this Reginald Morecombe was Florence's
admirer ? Might there not be another man of
that name among the millions who populate Great
Britain, and through the operation of one of
those strange conjunctions of circumstances which
sometimes happen in this life, might not he have
chosen the Stratkmore to sail to Australia in, and
had the half of my cabin allotted to him ? I examined
the boxes, but not being able to see inside
them, I found nothing more suggestive than the
name. I then overhauled the traps in the bunk,
but there was nothing to be learnt by looking at the
gun-case and the macintosh. Nevertheless, though
I could not have taken my oath that my companion
would prove Mr. Hawke's young friend, I was so
perfectly convinced in my own mind he was nobody

else, that I was as much confounded, annoyed, and
nonplussed as if I had entered the cabin and found
the man in bed in it.

Was this the explanation of Hawke's singular
willingness to send his daughter away on a long
voyage ? Did he hope by boxing up her and More-combe
for three or four months in a ship that the
young fellow would succeed in worrying the girl
into accepting him ? Was it Aunt Da maris'
scheme '? She would be here, at all events, to help
the youth, and her house would be open to him at
Sydney. And did Florence know he was to accompany
them ? If not, why there would be positive
baseness in her father's scheme to make the Strath-more
a mere trap for her. But if, on the other
hand, she knew all about it, why did she keep the
news from Sophie ? Why had she sent me a
keepsake to remember her by, and messages to
cherish, when all the time she was aware that she
was going to Australia in company with the man
whom her father had chosen for her to marry ?

I sat on my box with my forehead in my hand
and my mind in a whirl. Voices were bawling on
deck, feet were stamping overhead, people were
moving about in the cuddy. I knew by the cries
which reached me that we should be warping out
of dock in a few minutes, and such was the state
of bewilderment into which I had been flung by the
conviction that my cabin-mate was to be no other

than Hawke's young friend, by the astonishing
pertinacity old Hawke was exhibiting, by the determination
of Mr. Morecombe, who was going to
abandon society for sea-sickness and a long voyage
in the hope of winning Florence, and by the fear
that the girl had all along known he was to join
her and her aunt, that I declare for some moments
it was just the spin of a coin whether I should
jump on shore, send for my traps at Gravesend,
and drop all thoughts of Florence as completely as
I abandoned the voyage.

This was my mood, when, casting my eyes
towards the bunks, which were built one above the
other, the absurdity of the situation in which
Morecombe and I would be placed by occupying
one cabin and sleeping one atop of the other, struck
me ; I burst into a lit of laughter and roared so
lustily that I came very near to choking. And
nothing, I believe, could have done me more good ;
the flood of merriment seemed to cleanse my mind
and leave room for the old devil-may-care spirit to
assert itself again.

Without more ado I opened my box, bundled
such things as I required to have at hand into one
of the two small chests of drawers with which that
cabin was furnished, and then, pulling out a
writing-case, began a letter to my uncle. When it
came, however, to using a pen and collecting my
thoughts, I found I was rather too agitated to say

much. I opened by telling him I was going to
Australia, and why, as though he had known
nothing of my intentions, and then went on to say
that I was on board, that the Hawkes' luggage was
in their cabin, and that some baggage labelled
Reginald Morecombe " was in my cabin. I could
not yet positively declare that this Reginald
Morecombe was Hawke's friend, but I would let
him know hi a postscript when the man came
aboard at Gravesend. "If he proves to be
Florence's admirer," said I, " you will understand,
and especially Sophie appreciate, the profound
cunning old Hawke exhibits by this manoeuvre. I
only hope that Florence is ignorant of the plot :
unhappily I shall not be able to tell you how this
is, for I am not likely to see her until we have been
some time under way. If in my postscript I inform
you that my cabin companion is the Reginald
Morecombe, please take the earliest opportunity of
letting old Hawke know that I have sailed in the
Stratford." I then wound up by thanking him
for his kindness, and begging him to ask Sophie's
forgiveness of me for concealing from her my
intention to accompany Florence, and brought my
letter to an end with a proper sentimental flourish
Having finished that job, leaving the envelope
open for the postcript I had promised, I put on
my hat and shoved my head out of the cabin-door
to see who might be about before boldly issuing

forth, since for all I could tell Florence might have
come aboard whilst I was below. True, I had
understood she was to join the ship at Gravesend,
but her aunt might have changed her mind and
chosen to start from the dock : anyhow, I could
not be sure, and the very last thing I wanted was
to plump up against the darling unawares, and
frighten her before her aunt or an T body else into
a betrayal of our being " auld acquaintance " ; and
so, I say, I peered out cautiously, saw a group of
persons talking near the companion steps, and an
under-steward in a camlet jacket rubbing the table.
But there was nobody I knew in sight ; I therefore
walked on to the main-deck, and found to my
surprise that we were out of the dock and in the
river, and that a tug had got hold of us and was
canting our head towards midstream.

I walked a short distance forward so as to be
able to see who was on the poop before going
there. Most of the 'tween-deck and steerage folks
were below, but a few had clambered on to the
bulwarks, and a knot of them stood on the forecastle
waving their hats and handkerchiefs to their
friends who stood on the walls and pierheads
watching the noble ship start. I took a good look
aft, and seeing nothing but strange faces, saving
Dan Thompson, who stood alone listening to the
bawling of the mud pilot, and watching, without
of course taking any part in the busy scene, I

mounted the poop ladder and went up to unfriend.


Hallo, Jack ! " said he, gripping my fingers
heartily; "I was only just now thinking of you
and wondering whether you were aboard. When
did you come ? " I told him. " Whisper," says
he, "what's the name I am to call you by ? Confound
me if I can recollect it ; something to do
with edge, hadn't it ? "

Egerton — Jack Egerton," I replied; "and for
heaven's sake, Daniel, don't go and forget it.
Think of edging down ; that's nautical, you can't
forget that."

"No, no, Egerton — Jack Egerton — I have it
now," said he. " Be easy ; Egerton' s the word."

Since I've been aboard," said I, "I've been
rendered doubly anxious by one of the most
bothersome things happening that ever you could
imagine. I was in hope of getting a cabin to
myself, and I find I'm to have a companion."

"Well, and what does that mean? " cried he,
with a broad grin on his jolly nautical red face ;
"merely that Dan Thompson's a mighty popular
skipper, beloved of ladies and gentlemen. Would
you have me sail with unlet cabins ? And besides,
how many bunks does an old lobscouser like you
want to sleep in ? "

"That's not it," I replied; "I don't object to
a companion. But guess who he is to be ? "

u Pooh, poor ! out with it, man : how the
dickens can I guess ? "

"When I Spoke to you of the business that's
bringing me on this voyage, did I tell you' said
1, " that there was a young chap named More-combe
wanted by my sweetheart's father as a
husband for my pet."

"Did you? — may be. may be. And what
then?"

Why, smother him, Daniel, his luggage is in
my cabin — he's to be — not my bedfellow, thank
heaven, but he is to lie in the bunk under me.
The old man has hoped to make a rat-trap of your
ship for his girl. He's planned the voyage for
her, that young Morecombe may be in her company
all the while you keep at sea and after you've
set us ashore. And if that's not enough"' cried I,
savagely dwelling upon the baseness of the plot
(as if I, lads, were the most innocent of beings,
and not in the smallest degree working out a very
much more audacious scheme), "he's to share my
cabin and I'm to have the privilege of hearing him
snorting under me in his sleep for seventy ox
eighty days*'

Daniel burst into a loud laugh. " That'll you
do, Jack?" he exclaimed, "since he's to be under
you, will you contrive to smother him one night '?
Your bunk-planks are movable, you know, and
there's nothing to prevent you coming down upon

him. Pity your mattress isn't a feather bed ; "
and he broke into another long guffaw.

At this moment the pilot roared out an order to
the wheel, and my friend ran to the rail to peer
at something ahead, and there he stood, clean forgetting
all about my troubles and thinking only of
his ship. It was scarcely the right moment to
bother him, though I was determined, before we
brought up at Gravesend, to have my way with
him in something I required him to do. So I
hauled off and went and sat on the edge of the
after skylight to think a bit, and to have a look
at what was going on. And plenty there was to
see, as there always is on the Thames, which is
the noblest river in the world to my mind. I
have been upon African and Indian and South
American rivers, and beheld a thousand strange
and shining beauties, and in China have slept on
a rushing stream amid a crowd of wobbling and
straining junks, with a glimpse of temples beyond
the outlandish trees, and a soft wind sighing under
the sharp hard blue of the sky, and smells about
as aromatic as the materials which go to the
making of a plum-pudding. But the scenery of
the Thames is the work of human hands, and
that's the impressive part of the noble old stream.
Gaze along it in an atmosphere of yellow light,
when magnitude and vagueness are given to the
leagues of waterside structures, and when objects

glooin upon the dun horizon and cheat you with
the idea of immensity by the remoteness they
take. The Stratford's fTying-jibbooni was looking
right over the elliptical stern of the tug, and we
were swarming down the bend which bears the
polite name of Busby's Reach. And hereabouts
was no lack of life on that day; there were half
a score of big vessels in this Reach coming or
going, whilst lighters crept by broadside on, tugs
sped along in quest of towage jobs, passenger
steamers drove through the steel-coloured water,
with a glancing of silver at their keen stems, and
a whirl of snow eluding in a broad current from
under their counters. I took notice of a big India
steamship leisurely making for Gravesend, trim asa
man-of-war, her sides and funnel spotless, her
scuttles winking like stars in her as she coiled
her ebony length along the southern sunshine and
rounded eastwards into Woolwich Reach, whilst,
towing past her for London, there came a small
full-rigged ship from the other side of the world,
her brave little hull covered with scars of the conflicts
she had fought in distant seas, her canvas
clumsily rolled up, her gear grey from constant
wetting and drying, and the crew on the forecastle
pointing out to one another the familiar scenes
ashore.

This is one of the contrasts the noble river gives
you. And look yonder at the familiar Thames

wherry, with the old waterman resting on his oars
and squinting over his shoulder at the passing turin
whose tumble, as the steamer rushes past, the
little boat flounders and gallops, and sets the old
chap's oars flourishing like a pair of knitting-needles
in a woman's hand, whilst his hat shortens
and enlarges with the reeling as if he wanted to
show all observers what an optical illusion was
like. And hark now to the panting of that little
screw tug that heads up river with a chain of
deeply-laden coal barges in her wake, and see the
lazy grimy villain atop of the dirty heaps, in shirt
sleeves, a pipe in his mouth, and his sooty face
to the sky.

Our voyage was begun on a fine bright day, if
so be the hauling out of dock for Gravesend can
be called the beginning. We were too near London
for the azure overhead to be rich, but there was a
gay autumn tone in it, with a lightening of the
blue into a kind of silver over the furthest reaches
of the south shore, against which every tree, house,
and curve of land took a delicate black outline like
a sketch in ink. The sunshine poured full upon
our ship and put fiery lines into the yellow topmasts
and topgallant masts, and notched the skylights
and the breastwork with flashing white stars ;
and the soft wind that followed carried the smoke
of the tug along with us for a space until we
rounded into Galleons Reach, when the dark coil

floated away in a bluish shadow over Punished
Marshes. There was a constant coming and going
of figures upon the main deck, with sad-hearted
faces overhanging the rail watching the passing
land, and some drunken horseplay of sailors
upon the forecastle, where stood the chief mate
of the ship ready to echo the pilot's orders to
the tug.

A few of the cuddy passengers had joined the
vessel in the docks and sauntered about the poop.
I took notice of what was unmistakably a newly-married
pair; they kept together arm in arm,
and the husband showed his wife the card in the
binnacle, the pump for washing down betwixt the
mizzen mast and the skylight, the quarter boats
and the captain's gig over the stern, with the air
of a man who meant to get his honeymoon out
of everything that came in his road. There was
an elderly gentleman of a stern cast of countenance,
who walked about with his hands behind
him, and every now and again he would come to
a stand and cast a look aloft in a manner that
made me suspect he knew the difference between
the head-pump and the poop-downfall. I afterwards
found him to be Captain Jackson, Ken.,
going to Sydney, with his wife, on some government
business. There were other persons standing
about the poop and looking at the brilliant river-show,
but I did not give them much attention,

VOL. II. S

having more interesting subjects to occupy my
mind with. And do you ask me if there was
any yearning in my bowels after the old city
we were leaving in our wake, and the soil that
was dropping astern fathom by fathom as the
tug hauled us onwards ? Not an atom, my lads.
Had I been leaving a wife or a mother, or someone
dear to me, why then of course my face would
have been as melancholy as the longest and
yellowest of the visages among the third-class
passengers. But I was outward bound, in the
vessel that was to carry the darling of my heart
to Australia. I was going for a sail around the
world, not as a poor devil who had to haul upon
ropes or keep a look-out with his eye against a
snow-squall, but as a cuddy passenger who was to
eat the best that was in the ship, sleep in all night,
and go below when it rained. If I was thoughtful,
it was because I was puzzled and worried by
the discovery that young Morecombe was going to
make one of our happy family, not because I was
leaving England, or because I was afraid of being
sea-sick.

Well, by-and-by we were abreast of Erith, floating
pleasantly along, the sky hollowing over our
masthead into a deeper tint, and the ship making
a noble show upon the broadening stream, with a
certain rugged heavy appearance aloft that handsomely
fitted her deep trim and the appearance of

the men and women who stared over her bulwarks.
An outward-bounder she was from the vane above
the truck to the line of white water which the
wheels of the tug swept under her glittering figurehead
and along her glossy bends, and I sat looking
at the massive yards lying square upon the towering
masts, and at the fretwork of shadows cast by
the fore shrouds upon the galley and the longboat,
and thought of one day when the North-east
Trades had breeze up into half a gale of wind,
and when I leaned over the jibboom with my hand
upon the outer jibstay and saw such another vessel
as this rushing at me under a main topgallant sail
set over a single-reefed topsail, sending the surges
boiling far ahead of me with every downward crash
of the shearing cutwater and flinging a continuous
roll of thunder upon the gale out of the iron-hard
hollows of her white canvas.

Thompson had been talking to a middle-aged
lady with an Irish accent, and when they separated
I went up to my friend and said, " Daniel, can you
listen to me for three minutes ? "

Certainly," he answered; "I must apologize
for interrupting you just now, but didn't you notice
the dumb-barge right in the road of the tug?
Those things are the curse of the river. Captains'
lives are made up of nothing but actions brought
against them by barge owners. What is it you
have to say, Seymour? "

u OF ill LIB.

Egerton, man — Egerton ! Didn't I exhort you
not to mistake ? " cried I.

"Look here, Jack," says he, "Egerton be
bio wed ! I shall never be able to remember it, and
therefore to make sure I must call you Jack and
nothing else. You can say I'm a cousin, if you
like, a foundling adopted by your parents, a foster-brother,
half a twin, anything you choose. But
I'll bungle Egerton as sure as your name's
Se T your ; so Jack it must be between us, and I'll
leave you to account for the familiarity."

If you can't call me, Egerton, then I must be
Jack," said I; "there's no familiarity, and consequently
any accounting for it would be a mistake.
And now I am going to ask you to do me a favour.
When we reach Gravesend and I catch sight of Miss
Hawke coming aboard, I must go and hide, for fear
that, should she see me, her astonishment might
lead her to suspect who I am."

"But don't the aunt know you?" asked
Thompson, who had evidently 7 forgotten the story I
had given him in the docks.

"No," I answered, "she has never seen me
nor have I ever set eyes on her. Morecombe
I once caught sight of, but I am unknown to
him."

And does Miss Hawke know you ? " said he.

Why, hang it all, my good Daniel," cried I,
didn't I tell you that she was half in love with

me, that I was passionately in love with her,
and making this voyage for the sake of being with
her and in the hope of inducing her to marry
me?"

"Yes, yes, I remember now," he added; "and
what is it you want me to do ? You said something
about hiding."

"I said that when Miss Hawke heaves in sight
I must go below. You must take the very first
opportunity you can find to tell her privately that
I am on board and beg her not to show any
astonishment when I appear, and that you will
introduce me to her as though I was a stranger."

"What sort of a girl is she? I'm willing to
oblige you," said he, " but hang it, Jack, you're
now asking me to take liberties. What will she
think when I beg her not to be astonished ? "

Do you think, Daniel," said I, " that I am
likely to place an old friend like you in a false
position ? She will think that you are behaving
very kindly to us both in cautioning her against
allowing her surprise to betray me to her aunt."

He took a few short turns up and down in front
of me, with his good-natured red face working as
though he was rehearsing the thing, and then said,
Well, there can be no harm ; I'll do this. When
she arrives, and a chance comes, I'll say, ' There's
an old friend of mine aboard — an old shipmate —
named Jack Seymour!' She is sure to sing out,

■ What, Jack Seymour ! ' and I'll answer ' Yes*.
He tells me he has the honour of your acquaintance,
and has asked me to let you know he's
aboard, in order that when he turns up you mayn't
be frightened.' "

Not frightened, Daniel," said I: " surprised-all
the rest will do capitally."

Surprised, then," he continued. "And then
I'll say, ' for reasons I've not troubled myself to
ask, he tells me he's shipped under the name
of Egerton, but as I can't reckon upon always
remembering that name, I shall call him Jack.
It's not my business,' I'll say, 'to inquire into
names. All I've got to do is to carry my ship and
the people in her safely across the ocean.' I'll
say that, Jack, to satisfy my own mind ; no harm
in it, I hope ? "

"None whatever."

And what else is there to do ? " said he.

"Why," I replied, "you can tell her that I've
asked you to introduce me to her."

I saw he did not like that, but instead of
declining he said, " What d'ye want to be introduced
for ? Go plump to her and ask her what
she thinks of the weather. People don't stand on
shore-going ceremonies at sea. You ought to
know that, Jack."

Never mind that part of the job, Daniel. If
you'll just tell her I'm aboard, and let me know

when you have given her the news, I shall be
eternally obliged to you''

All right, my lad, 111 do that," said he,
clapping me on the shoulder and laughing in my
face ; and then, taking a look round, he said
something to the pilot and went below.

CHAPTER IV.

NIGHT IN THE RIVER.

I could not help wondering at my impudence in
thrusting my love business on the mind of a sea
captain, full of the responsibility of a big ship
crowded with 'passengers and loaded down to her
chain-plate bolts with valuable merchandise.
However, I had calculated upon his help and was
not going to be cheated out of it ; and, besides,
there would be a freemasonry between us which
few landsmen could fully understand. We had
been old shipmates, had had many a frolic together
ashore under Southern and Eastern skies, were fast
friends whilst professionally associated, and consequently
he would act and speak before me
privately without any of the reserve he would
think necessary to maintain for the preservation
of his dignity in the presence of others. What
sort of captain he made I could not yet tell, but I
remembered him as a smart, exceedingly intelligent
seaman as second mate; a man who had made

Lis position by hard work and close attention to
his duties ; who, if he had not crept aboard
through the hawse pipe, had not gained admittance
by the cabin window, but as apprentice, had
worked his way up out of the slush-pot into command
of one of the finest ships which then traded
to Australia.

Lunch was on the table and I went into "the
cuddy to take my first meal aboard the Stratford.
Only two or three of the passengers came to the
table, among them being Captain Jackson. He
talked in a loud voice to Thompson, who sat at
the head of the table ; and I remember the navy
man inquiring if the ship was not uncommonly
deep in the water, to which Thompson replied that
her height of side was an inch more than she had
last voyage.

'swells*' says Captain Jackson, "it's my ignorance
of merchant vessels that makes me ask the
question. I was brought up in frigates and line-of-battle
ships, sir, and am used to a dip of twenty
feet, and when I required to judge our pace of sailing
by looking over the side, I had to peer a long
way down before I came to water."

You're going to alter all that in the navy, I
hear," says Thompson ; " hulls are to be flush with
the water, aren't they ? and nothing's to show but
the things you point your guns out of ? "

"Oh," cried Captain Jackson scornfully,

what's going to be altered in the navy I'm sure
I don't know. I'm sorry, but I can't help the
change, sir. Iron and steam are the curse of the
country, sir ; they have robbed us of our ships
and of our sailors. What's a man-of-war in these
times ? An immense floating kettle, sir, with fire
inside it and steam blowing out of the spout ;
and how can they call the men who man those
monstrous utensils sailors ? What could Nelson
have done with a parcel of fellows brought up in
floating saucepans, where there are no yards to
brace about, where a bolt of canvas would furnish
all the sail needed, and where the helm is worked
by a steam engine ? "

Thompson tipped me a wink as the prejudiced
old fellow stopped his chatter by filling his mouth.
This specimen of the gallant captain's opinions
made me glad to think that he was to be one of
us, as I might reckon upon a deal of amusement
No humorist equals the man who passes his closing
years in pointing to the past with one hand and
pulling the nose of the present with the other, and
I never tire of hearing such people and encouraging
them to talk.

He began again about the Stratford being
overloaded, and his wife, a large stout lady with a
cast in her port eye, who sat next him, said she
was sorry to hear that he had misgivings on that
subject, for nobody could imagine how deeply her

husband was versed in all nautical matters, being
the author not only of a marine dictionary, but of
a work on the management of boats at sea. On
this the Irish lady, Mrs. O'Brien, who was seated
near Thompson, said to him, " Captain, if the
gentleman knows all about it and says the ship is
too deep, then she must be unsafe, and I hope ye '11
have her lightened before we get among the waves
they tell me roll mountains high in the Bay
of Biscay."

How Daniel eased their minds I don't know,
for, having finished lunch and suspecting that
Gravesend would not be far off, I left the table
and went on deck to look about me, thinking as I
mounted the companion-steps, and hearing my
friend blandly jabbering about free-board and
tonnage (soul-sickening subjects), that the old
navy man would give him some trouble with his
prejudices if he did not mind his eye.

It was half-past one or later yet, and we were in
Xorthfleet Hope, as the stretch of water betwixt
Grays and Tilburyness is called, and by squinting-over
the port bow I could see where Gravesend lay
by the colour of the sky there. The wind had
freshened and the water was trembling and running
in a stress of little waves under it ; the smoke from
the tug's funnel fled away flat from the orifice and
blew down upon the water ; a couple of yachts with
the tacks of their mainsails triced up were passing

us in a smother of foam, through which their
greenish copper flashed like a shark's body in the
boiling and seething white of a ship's wake, an old
black collier, with the clews of her square foresail
stretched on a boom, was staggering along within
pistol-shot of a lovely slope of mud on the Tilbury
side ; and a tug was dragging a fine Yankee barque
up the river, hands aloft unbending the sails, and
the stripes and stars making a brilliant spot of
colour against the sky, under which a flight of
windy-looking clouds were speeding with a ragged
look in their tails as if they had been torn out of
some solid body of vapour that would not be Ions
in coming.

Now that Gravesend was almost within hail I
grew desperately nervous and agitated, and seemed
to realize with a deeper sense of it than had yet
come to me the resolution old Hawke was illustrating
by his stratagem of sending Florence and
Morecombe away together on a long voyage. Evidently
my cousins were perfectly right when they
had said that the young fellow was not to be got
rid of by a plain refusal. The worry in me was
rendered livelier by my anxiety to make sure that
the man who was to share my cabin was the fellow
I feared he would prove. I stood watching the
passing shore as we opened Gravesend Reach, and
then presently the old town which I knew so well
as a point of departure and arrival — for I had

always sailed out of the port of London — hove in
view, its bits of piers forking out into a squadron of
wherries that danced around them, and I saw the
windows of the Falcon Hotel sparkling in the light
(may be Florence was at that moment watching the
approaching ship from one of them, and it was her
I mistook for the sunshine in the windowpanes),
and the lumber of houses that huddled close
to the river's edge ; while far away down the Hop*. ,
shining like marble in the fitful radiance of the
cloud-swept sun, were the white heights of Clifton ,
crowning the visible confines of a stretch of water
that was full at that hour of shipping, at rest or
under way, and gay with the windy streaming of
scores of flags.

It was three o'clock by the time the ship was
moored to a buoy, very nearly abreast of Gravesend,
and, armed with a pipe and a small but powerful
telescope of my own, I went forward on to the forecastle,
where I could watch the passengers come
aboard without being noticed myself. There was a
squally look in the sky, and it was blowing a fresh
north-east wind with an edge of winter in it that
made the pilot cloth coat I wore a very acceptable
garment. The women and children on the main
deck, and the rather squalid-looking gentry who
paced the forecastle or hung about the galley for
the warmth and shelter down there, gave, I am
bound to say. a somewhat slum-like look to the

ship in that part of her which they were permitted
to use. But when I glanced at the clear quarterdeck,
with the shining windows in the cuddy front
and the breastwork and painting there, then at the
long sweep of poop which ran with a very clear
white surface into the sky that was pouring past in
clouds, and then turned my eyes aloft where the
house flag, dwarfed by height, was rattling like a
peal of musketry at the main royal masthead, and
looked at the grand spread of yards, and noticed
the frigate-like pose of the masts, stayed to a hair,
every sail with a bunt as smooth as a pillow, the
ratlines ruling the shrouds as straight and square
as the shear poles, all the braces hauled taut, and
the wind giving a curve to every slack line it met
and rushing away out of the topmast rigging with
a kind of angry hiss in its wild humming, I thought
that if Florence was viewing the Stratford from
yonder hotel or any other land point, she would bethinking
her a noble-looking craft for her class and
character, and not the less fitted to ride the stormy
seas of the Atlantic and Southern Oceans because
Captain Jackson, En., found her deeper than he
thought good.

"Well, mates, after I had been keeping a look-out
for about twenty minutes I spied a boat shove off
from the steps behind the pier, and bringing my
glass to bear I noticed that the waterman headed
for us and that there was a man sitting in the

stern sheets. I kept the little telescope upon this
last, and presently made out a large moustache, a
white billycock, an eye-glass, stick-up collar, and a
figure dressed in a grey coat with a cape, and a rug
over his arm and a black portmanteau alongside of
him. I had only seen Mr. Morecombe once, as you
know, but the moment my glass gave me the face
of the fellow in the stern sheets of that boat so that
I could clearly see the features of it, all doubts as
to the man who was to share my cabin vanished.
Reginald Morecombe it was as certain as that it
was I who was watching him. The name on the
luggage below ought to have convinced me, but
though I had been pretty sure I was not so sure as
I was now, and such was the effect of this confirmatory
and conclusive evidence upon me that,
though God knows I should have reckoned myself
in anything but a merry mood, I burst into a wild
laugh, shaken to the heart by the absurdity of us
two taking this voyage for the same purpose,
coming together without the least suspicion of each
other's intention, and actually sharing the same
cabin, and sleeping one atop of the other !

However, if there was any comfort at all to begot
out of the fact of this man coming aboard it lay
in his arriving alone, for that looked to me very
much as if Florence knew nothing of the plot that
had been devised, and I might count upon good
results following her disgust if it turned out that

she was ignorant of the conspiracy between Hawke
and Aunt Damaris and Morecombe. I went on to
the quarter-deck as his boat sheered alongside, and
watched him come up the gangway ladder. He
knew very little about ships, I took it, and was
boarding the Stratford for the first time I suspected
by the way he halted and stared, as if he
didn't know which end of the vessel belonged to
him ; and I dare say he would be puzzled by the
crowd of 'tween-deck passengers who stood by to
see him arrive and by the appearance of the main-deck,
which with its rows of scuttle-butts, spare
booms, hatchway gratings, coils of rigging upon
pins, and the dirt and confusion which third-class
passengers have a happy knack in bringing along
with them as a part of their luggage, must have
presented to the entirely shore-going eye a very
complicated appearance.

He paid the waterman and took up his bag, and
seeing him looking around in quest of some one to
inform him what was next to be done, I stepped upto
him and said, " Excuse me, sir ; are you Mr.
Reginald Morecombe ? "

He bowed and said " Yeas," and looked at me
gladly as if thankful to heaven that some one knew
him amid this wilderness of ropes, live-stock, and
frowsy passengers.

"It was a mere conjecture of mine," said I. "A
Mr. Reginald Morecombe is to share my cabin, and

if you are the gentleman, I shall bo happy to show
you where it is."

"Oh, thur-timr-ank you, thank you," said he
with his stammer, following me. " How devilish
confusing a ship is. This vessel looks very dirty.
Who are all those fellahs outside ? " meaning the
people on the main deck, for we were now in the
cuddy.

'Tween-deck passengers," said I. " This is the
cabin we are to share," — bundling into it. " I
found these traps in the lower bunk and supposed
you had chosen it. But top or bottom is the same
to me. You can have which you like."

He peered with his glass in his eye and said,
"Oh, thur-thur-anks; I-think the under one will
suit me best. I am a wretched sailaw," grinning
palely, " and the one beneath is the easiest to
enter. What very queer beds for fellahs to lie in !
But I suppose a man gets used to this sort of thing
in time."

I was in the act of leaving the cabin, being
anxious to watch for the arrival of Florence and
her aunt, when he said, pulling his moustaches and
smiling with tremendous politeness, " I big your
pardon, as we are to be companions in this — aw —
this whom, might I be allowed to ask your name ? "
I was within an ace of answering that it was
Seymour — the word was trembling on my lips when
I suddenly remembered, and stammered, " John

VOL. II. F

Egerton — Mr. John Egerton. You'll see it on that
box there," and I swung hastily out into the cuddy
that he might not perceive the conscience-stricken
look which I could feel as hot as fire in my face. I
stopped a moment to pull out the letter I had
addressed to my uncle and scribbled with a pencil
the following postscript : " The Reginald Morecombe
who is to share my cabin is Mr. Haiuke's young
friend. Endeavour to let the old man know as
early as possible that I am accompanying his
daughter to Australia. I want to have the full
benefit of his fears and rage, and the sooner he is
told the longer he will suffer. Would any man
have conceived the pompous old chap capable of
such an underhand stroke as this ? God bless you
all." This being written, I closed the envelope, and
gave the letter to one of the stewards to put into
the bag which would be cleared or sent ashore before
the ship sailed, and then went on to the maindeck in
order to take another spell of watching on the forecastle,
but just as I was stepping out of the cuddy
some people came over the gangway, the sight of
whom sent me backing and cowering under the
starboard poop ladder for fear that Florence might
be among the party. They proved to be five cuddy
passengers, and when I found that my darling was
not one of them I made my way to the forecastle
and resumed my seat there.
You will have seen, my lads, that much had not

passed between Mr. Morecoinbe and myself; but
little as it was, there was enough of it to convince
me that my relatives were perfectly right in saying
that the man was a fool. I may make his words
look as much like his pronunciation of them as I
can ; but there's no art that I'm master of to
represent the dawdling, affected tone of his voice, the
foolishness of his smile, the astounding good opinion
of himself that he managed somehow to convey.
Part and parcel of the man his conceit must have
been to strike me as it did at a time when he was
so bothered by the novelty of his surroundings that
even an actor would have been natural under the
circumstances. Not that I found him less good-looking
than I thought him that day when I caught
a glimpse of him at Bristol seated in old Hawke's
carriage ; but for all that, the few sentences he had
let fall, and above everything his smile, persuaded
me that there was a world of truth in what my
aunt had told me about his good looks disappearing
in his stupidness when you got close to him in talk;
and when I thought of how Florence had spoken of
him as a fool, and remembered that she had refused
his offer of marriage, why, I began to consider that
after all perhaps nothing better could have happened
for me than that Morecombe should have fallen into
Hawke's scheme (for Hawke's it was, if it was not
the devil's), since what was more likely to complete
her disgust of the young fellow than being placed

in the one situation of all others in which she would
be unable to keep clear of his unwelcome company
unless she imprisoned herself in her cabin ?

Full of these agreeable reflections, I sat with a
grin upon my face poising my telescope ready to
level it at the first boat that should come away
from Gravesend. The wind was strong and cold ;
no rain had fallen as yet, but the clouds were full
of wet and I guessed that we should have a
sopping night. Only a few of the crew were about,
the rest being, as I might suppose from experience,
too drunk to be of use. I was near the scuttle and
could hear the fellows jabbering and breaking into
songs that sounded as if all hands were sea-sick.
Queer it was to me to feel as I looked around me,
and spied the first mate stumping the break of the
poop athwart ships, an ordinary seaman in the
maintop at work on some job up there, the second
mate in the waist singing out to a hand in the
fore topmast crossness, and so on, that I had
nothing to do with the ship, could go where I liked,
use the weather side of the poop whenever I chose,
and enjoy more liberty than even my friend Daniel.
I suppose most men who have knocked off the sea
as a profession have felt what I am describing
when they have taken a voyage as passenger
whilst their memory of sea discipline and work
was fresh.

At last I began to get rather tired of the

Stratford's forecastle, and above all of the wind
that was whistling nipping into my starboard
ear, and was wondering if it was to fall dark
before Florence and her aunt came aboard. As I
was in the act of rising to stretch my legs and take
a final squint at the flight of steps near the pier
before going aft, I spied a boat draw out from the
other wherries. I waited, but would not seem to
look too inquisitively, for just then I noticed young
Morecombe posted near the port-quarter boat
holding the ship's telescope — which he would have
found on brackets under the companion hood —
with his face turned my way. Presently he
rested the glass on the rail and aimed it at the
approaching boat ; this was my chance to take a
hurried squint myself, and the moment the faces
of the persons in the stern sheets of the boat
entered the field of the lenses my heart gave a
mighty throb. Ay, boys, she was coming at last !
I had seen her darling face, the trembling of the
feather of her hat in the strong wind, and thrusting
the little telescope into my pocket, I went and
posted myself before — or as landsmen might say
behind — the forecastle capstan, so that it might
screen me from observation as she came over the
side.

Morecombe had made her out, too, by this time,
and after looking at the boat through his eyeglass
for a few moments, he turned tail and disappeared

down the companion steps. I looked to see him
reappear on the main deck, making sure he would
receive the ladies, but he did not show up again.
His manner of leaving the deck suggested to me
that he was doing precisely what I was — hiding.
But I did not give the matter very much thought,
being fully occupied in watching the boat, whose
approach filled me with extraordinary agitation
and excitement. If ever a fear had risen in me that
something might, at the last moment, stop my pet
from coming, it was ended now. There she was,
nearing the ship as fast as a couple of watermen
could row her ; in a few minutes she would be in
the vessel, for many a long week to be my adorable
shipmate ; no more need of twopenny lodgings, of
imploring Sophie's help, of day after day passing
without giving me a sight of her. No wonder my
heart beat fast and rapturously. I had attempted
a bold adventure, but so far all had gone as if
ordered by my own wishes ; and now my darling and
I were to be together until Australia was reached ;
and of what was to follow then I had so little doubt,
that had she been coming to me as my bride my
spirits could not have been more triumphantly
joyous.

The wind had raised a middling stiff wobble on
the water, and the boat jumped and tumbled in a
very lively manner as she came along. Every
moment the spray would fly over her like a hateful

of feathers tossed on the breeze, and I would notice
Aunt Darnaris, who, of course, would be Florence's
companion, duck and curtsey as the shower blew
along. She wore a thick greyish-coloured veil and
a hat resembling a man's wide awake, and as I
watched her bobbing in the stern sheets of that
boat I thought to myself, "What would be your
ideas, my old beauty, were you to know whose eyes
were gazing at you from the Strathmores forecastle
? " Presently the boat came alongside, and
in a few moments Florence and her aunt stepped
over the gangway and immediately went into the
cuddy, followed by one of the under stewards with
an armful of odds and ends belonging to them. I
went on to the main deck and posted myself
between the foremast and the galley, out of sight
of the poop and quarter-deck, whilst I considered
what I had best do. I had made up my mind not
to let Florence see me until the news of my being
aboard had been given her by Thompson (who by
the way had gone ashore). I was not going to
run risks. It was not for a moment to be doubted
that if Aunt Darnaris got to know I was in the
Stratford she would abandon the voyage by that
vessel and carry Florence away, with Morecombe,
of course, in their wake. Consequently, even
Florence herself ought not to know that I was to be
one of the vessel's passengers until we were well
afloat and the nearest port a long distance astern.

These being my considerations, I stood debating
what I should do. I had no excuse to stick to my
cabin for the rest of the afternoon and evening,
for we were not at sea, and I could not sham
sickness, nor, indeed, did I relish the notion of a
long spell of solitary confinement. Dinner would be
served at half-past five or six, and of course I could
not take my place at the table. My best plan clearly
was not to go aft at all until it was time to turn in,
at which hour I might take it Florence and her aunt
would have stowed themselves away in their cabin.
I had half a mind to walk into the forecastle and
see if there were any faces about that I remembered,
and then reflecting that there was rather too
much drunkenness there to make a visit agreeable,
I was turning my attention to the 'tween-decks and
planning a voyage into those regions for the
shelter of them and the secure hiding-place they
would make for me, when my eye caught sight of a
figure in the boatswain's berth sitting upon a chest
and drinking tea out of a pannikin which he held
in one hand whilst he flourished a lump of soft
tack in the other. This berth or cabin was bulk-headed
. off from the rest of the forecastle and
formed a kind of wing on the port side of the deck,
a corresponding structure facing it on the starboard
side. The boatswain and carpenter of the Portia
had shared a similar bedroom in .that ship, and
the same arrangement would be found, I supposed,

in this sister vessel. I stepped over to the door of
this cabin, meaning to ask the man, whoever he
might be, if he knew at what hour we were to get
under way in the morning, when, struck by his
appearance, I looked at him attentively and exclaimed,
" What, Jimmy Shilling ! After all these
still alive oh ! Surely you remember me ! "

He took a kind of slow long look at me over his
pannikin and then put it down and stood up.
,; Mr. Seymour ! " he exclaimed. " Well, I'm
blowed ! how are you, sir ? "

This man had been boatswain's mate in the
Portia, and fours years ago he had looked ten years
younger than he did now, so scurvily does the sea
use her children ; but his grizzled beard, the
weather-ploughed look of his leathery skin, and
the knots which hauling and pulling and swearing
and piping had tied up around his eyes and over
his temples did not disguise him from me. I gave
him a hearty handshake and sat down, bidding
him not mind me, but to go on with his supper, or
whatever the snack he was working at might be
styled.

At that moment in steps the carpenter, a hairy,
wiry sea-dog, with a beard like a worn-out scrubbing-brush
upon his chin, and strange pale eyes, as if
they had lost their colour by looking too much to
windward in wet weather. The boatswain politely
introduced me to him, whereupon he pulled off

his fur cap as a salutation, and pitched it into
his bunk, and then hauling forth a short black pipe
from his breeches pocket, he filled it out of a well-worn
brass box, and began very gravely to smoke.

"You don't mean to say, Mr. Seymour," said
the boatswain, " that you've come to sea again?"

"No, Shilling," said I, "not as a sailor man.
I'm going to Australia along with you — as the old
chanted says, ' I've embarked into a ship which
her topsails is let fall, and all unto an ireland
where we never will go home,' but not to soil my
hands with your filthy grease and tar. No,
Shilling ; no more keeping a look-out, no more
hauling and slaving for this child. You may pipe
your whistle and be hanged ; you'll never get me
to dance to it. I'm a cuddy passenger, my lively
hearty, taking a sail round what the negro calls
dis circumnabular globe for the fun of watching
others do what I've had to do myself, and don't
mean to do again."

The carpenter grinned broadly behind his pipe,
and the boatswain exclaimed, " Cuddy passenger,
eh? Shingles," addressing the carpenter, "ain't
the cuddy a place under the poop where the ladies
live, and were ye may find by looking nothing but
must-class eaten' knocking about ? "

If it ain't there, it ain't forwards," answered the
carpenter ; "leastways in this vessel."

"And a good job too," said I. "Mr. Shingles,

would you have ladies to live among the drunken
Dutchmen you may hear snorting like hogs, if
you'll put your ear to the forecastle."

You're right, Mr. Seymour," exclaimed the
boatswain. " Hogs they are, and it's mammals
after that there pattern to which sailors have
reduced themselves. Sailors do I call 'em !
Why, I'd swallow that pannikin, Shingles — bolt it
afore ye whilst you sit looking on — if out of this
ship's company ye '11 be able to pick me one man
that hasn't more to learn of his calling than an
apprentice, when I first went to sea, would ha'
needed teaching after he had been six months
sailoring."

Eight you are, mate," replied the carpenter,
smoking thoughtfully ; "but there's no use grumbling.
A man must take things as they come. If
ye can't get first-class seamen, then ye must put
up with middling' sailors ; and if they're not to begot,
then ye must be content with somers and
scaramouch and turnpike men. My argument
is, what's the use of cussin' and swearing' ? Will
you have a pipe of tobacco, Mr. Seymour, sir ? "
and he fumbled about for his brass box.

I took a pinch for company's sake and put it
into my pipe, and then all at once bethinking
myself that these fellows were calling me Mr. Sey-mour
— and, mind you, in no uncertain notes, for
the boatswain had the most roaring voice that ever

human being used in calling upon sailors to quit
their beds of down and mount the masts, whilst
there was the true deep-sea rumble in the carpenter's
pipes — I said, "Jimmy, and you, Mr. Shingles, my
name aboard the Stratford is not Seymour but
Egerton. "Will you try to think of that, my
friends ? There are some passengers aft who
mustn't on any account know I'm here. And they
can only find out that I am here, even when I am
sitting among them, and they are looking at me,
by learning my name. So I'm Mr. Egerton,
Jimmy, and you Mr. Shingles ; and in some
second dog-watch, when everything's quiet aloft
and the sailors are at prayers, I'll tell you why
I've come to sea in your ship, and give you both
such a yarn that you'll never afterwards want to
use curling-irons for your hair again so long as
you live."

All right, sir," said the boatswain ; " Egerton's
the word, and Hegerton it is."

Same here," warbled Chips.

Note in this the beautiful gentlemanly spirit of
the sailor. Had a landsman heard me say that I
had changed my name, then — unless I had explained
that property was the cause — he would
straightway have suspected me of arson, forgery,
or murder, and that I was flying to Australia to
escape British justice. On the other hand, these
two shell-backs asked no questions, suspected

nothing, simply said "Hegerton it is," and so
made an end of the matter. Having gone so far
with them, I thought I would go farther yet, and I
told them that as my friend Daniel Thompson,
their skipper, was ashore, and unable therefore tolet
a certain passenger know that I was in the ship,
and as I did not want to meet that passenger until
she had been informed that I was aboard, I desired
to keep forward, or somewhere out of sight, until
bedtime, and asked leave to use their cabin.

To be sure you may, Mr. ifrgerton," said the
boatswain, with a grin, as he put a gale of wind
into the aspirate to let me know how completely he
had mastered the word ; " and if we'd like to sleep
here, there's my bunk and welcome."

This hospitable offer I declined, but I told him
if he'd get me a pannikin of tea from the galley,
and a piece of bread, I should feel very much
obliged to him, and these things he at once procured
; so that, seated on his chest, with the fumes
of the strong cavendish cake-tobacco that sailors
smoke mingling in my nostrils with the steam of the
galley tea, and the wind making a rushing noise in
the rigging outside, I felt as if I were once more a
sailor, and only waiting for the order to turn to to
bundle out with the others and fall to work. I had
a pleasant talk with these men about the ship aud
the skipper (whom they had both sailed with
before, and spoke of in high terms), and amongst

us we revived some old and pleasant memories ;
and then, having duties to attend to on deck, they
left me alone. It was now raining, with a promise
of a dark foul night, and the wind was screeching
in squalls overhead. I poked my nose out and
looked along the decks ; a couple of brass-bound
apprentices (the Stratford carried five of these
"young gentlemen ") were lurking about the head
of one of the poop ladders, swathed in oilskins, and
the second mate, similarly attired, was rambling
about in solitary dignity in the neighbourhood of
the wheel. Not one of the passengers of any
description was to be seen ; and the deserted dark
wet decks, the rain flying in clouds of drizzle past
the masts, the streaming rigging, and the gloomy
sky, which the shadow of the approaching night
was fast darkening, made a truly miserable and
depressing picture. I wondered what Morecombe
was doing ; whether he was with Aunt Damaris
and Florence. But there was no use wondering.
My present business was to kill the evening, and
so I lighted a pipe, and on looking at the carpenter's
bunk spied a book at the foot of it which proved to
be a collection of tales of shipwreck, and several of
these yarns I read to the hoarse accompaniment of
the wind groaning and roaring outside.

The dinner bell rang, the evening gathered, and,
by and by, on taking another look aft, I saw the
cuddy lamps alight, and the passengers eating

their first dinner aboard the Stratford. It was
no joke peering through the wet from the grim and
rude interior of the boatswain's cabin at that
brilliant cuddy, as though I were a 'tween-deck
passenger and could only peep and envy. The tea
and bread I had eaten had, it is true, plugged my
appetite, still I felt as if there was enough hunger
leaking out to qualify me to give an opinion on old
Draining' cookery ; and above all, this skulking was
extremely disagreeable, as tending to make me
reckon that my courtship was to consist altogether
of hiding and seeking. However, it was clearly not
my policy to go and rise up before my darling as if
I was a ghost, and frighten her, as I was bound todo,
if my presence was not gently made known to
her ; and so comforting myself with the reflection
that the necessity of skulking would soon be over,
I once more picked up the book of shipwrecks and
went on reading until Jimmy and the carpenter
came into the cabin.

No company do I like better than sailors', and
the conversation of these two men was a real
entertainment. It was evening, the anchor watch
had been set, a riding light was burning on the
forestry, and, there being nothing more to do until
the tug came alongside in the morning, the carpenter
and boatswain were at liberty to yarn and
smoke as long as they pleased, and then turn in.
Threshold impressions, memories which belong to

the first step of any momentous matter, are always
lively and lasting, and that, no doubt, is why I
recall the picture of that berth more vividly than I
can see anything else in that vanished ship : the
oil-lamp like a coffee-pot hanging overhead; the
two bunks with their rough furniture of coarse
blankets and mattresses which looked as old as
Captain Cook's time, and as if they had been
making voyages round the world ever since; the
flap table against the ship's side ; the battered sea
chests upon which many a pound of stick tobacco
must have been cut, to judge from the web-like
nothings along the edges of the lids ; the oilskins
and sou' western hanging on nails up in a corner,
looking like seamen who had committed suicide.
The lamp cast a narrow stream of light through
the sliding door on the deck, throwing out upon the
darkness a few links of the huge chain cable that
was stretched along from the windlass, and a coil
of gear upon a belaying pin at the foot of the foremast,
and such things. It was strange to hear the
rushing noise of the wind and the seething of rain
swept through shrouds and stays, and yet feel no
motion in the hull, for the night was so black and
the sound aloft so ocean-like that it was almost
impossible at times to realize that we were on the
smooth Thames, and Gravesend pretty nearly within
musket-shot.

Not choosing to go supperless to bed, and yet not

caring to make the steward wonder by asking him
for something to eat, I partook of a bit of fresh
beef which the boatswain brought out of a shelf,
and one bell (half-past eight) having been struck
on the quarter-deck I relieved my entertainers of
my company, knowing very well that the poor
tired fellows would turn in and fall fast asleep the
moment my back was turned. The rain had
ceased, but the sky had a wild look, and the decks
were full of water for the want of a list to carry
the wet through the scupper holes, I made my
way aft and came to a stand opposite the cuddy
front, through the windows of which I could command
a view of the interior without being seen.
Dinner had been cleared away a long while before.
The place looked to me to be full of people, and I
noticed the newly-married couple (whose name I
afterwards heard was Mr. and Mrs. Armature
Mortimer), Captain Jackson, En., and his wife, a
young gentleman named Thompson Tucker, Mrs.
O'Brien, one or two other ladies, and at the
hardship table, at the end, Florence, Aunt
Damaris, and Mr. Morecombe ! When I saw that
fellow talking to the aunt, and Florence sitting
quietly alongside, my old miserable misgiving
returned. It looked almost certain that she must
have known Morecombe intended to accompany her,
otherwise, could I suppose, if he had sneaked onboard
as I had, that he would have had the courage

VOL. ii.

to discover himself within an hour or two of her
arrival? Just as I was sure, if the aunt learnt
that I was on board she would forthwith carry her
niece ashore, might not he in the same way have
feared that if Florence knew that he was going to
make the voyage in the ship, she would insist upon
leaving the vessel ? Of course he enjoyed an
immense advantage over me by having Aunt
Damaris on his side, and he might presume upon
that to make his presence know to Florence.
Nevertheless, it rendered me extremely unhappy to
see him there in that warm, comfortable, brilliant
cuddy, close to Florence and chatting with the
aunt, and not to be able to satisfy my mind that
his voyage had been arranged without the girl's
knowledge.

The better to see her I went on to the poop, for
they were all three of them sitting well within the
range of the after skylight. A figure was walking
up and down — one of the mates, no doubt — but
it was too dark to see which of them it was.
The wind was mighty keen, having grown more
northerly and coming very fresh. I walked to the
after skylight and looked down, and there under
me was the beautiful face of the girl for whom I
was taking all this desperate trouble and heaping
discomforts upon my head. Had she been alone,
the sight that skylight framed would have been
like a vision, lor the blackness stood all around

the illuminated glass, and the deck was dark too,
so that the radiance of the lamps, and the face and
glittering hair of Florence, and the swell of her
lovely bosom rounding above the table on which
she rested her elbow with her white hand under
her chin, were all contained in a kind of luminous
square ; but unfortunately for the beauty of that
irradiated night-piece, Aunt Damaris was in it
and so was Morecombe. There they were, all three
of them, and I watched them. For ten minutes
I stood overhanging that skylight, but during that
time I never could detect that Florence spoke once,
neither did I observe that she ever turned her face
towards Mr. Morecombe. It would be hard to tell
her exact expression in that light : the glass was
wet and the moisture made its transparency treacherous,
but if there was not a look of coldness and
offended pride in her face, then I am blessed if I can
tell you what other sort of appearance it presented.
I took, as you may suppose, a prolonged squint at
Aunt Damaris. One glimpse I had caught of her,
as you will remember I told you, at Bristol, but the
impression left was exceedingly small, and what I
now saw therefore was quite fresh and new to me.
She seemed about sixty years old : very sharp
features, a long narrow nose, a wide mouth with
thin lips, and small restless black eyes. Her hair
was grey, and she was very bald about the parting.
She wore two old-fashioned sausage-shaped earls

in front of the ear. She looked to be dressed in
black satin, for the stuff gleamed whenever she
moved : her cap was large, with plenty of riband
in it, and around her neck was a stretch of lace *
or something of that kind, with the ends hanging
down in front of her. She had the appearance, I
am bound to say, of a respectable, well-to-do old
lady.

Well, whilst I was staring down at them, I saw
Florence lean towards her aunt, say something,
and then rise. The old woman lifted her eyes to
her and seemed to expostulate ; then, apparently
thinking better of it, she got up too, and shook
hands with Mr. Morecombe, but Florence gave him
such a chilly bow that the sight of it brought my
two hands together in a rapturous squeeze, and
then in a breath there was nothing left of the
picture the skylight had framed but the bare table.
I turned to go below by the cuddy front entrance
and found the person I had noticed stumping the
deck at my elbow and peering at me.

"Are you a cuddy passenger ? " said he.

I am," I replied.

Oh, I beg your pardon," said he. " May I ask
what name ? "

Mr. John Egerton," I answered.

My name is Thornton," said he, " and I'm
the chief officer. I did not notice you at dinner.

The right name is fichu, Florence has since told me. — Jack.

I don't think I have seen you in this vessel before ;
when did you come aboard, sir ? "

"In the docks."

He continued to peer at me as though he could
not make up his mind as to whether I was an
Irish assassin or the latest English forger, but
when, in reply to the question, I gave him the
number of my cabin and the name of the
person who was to share it with me, he exclaimed,
Oh, it's all right, sir, of course," and resumed
his walk. This matter, trifling as it was, nevertheless
hugely disgusted and annoyed me, and
I was never more disposed to curse myself fora
fool for putting myself into situations full of
mortifications, misconstructions, and the obligation
of sneaking and skulking. I lingered a few
minutes on the poop, not choosing that the mate
should flatter himself that he had hastened my
departure. There was no rain, but the darkness
was thickened with a rolling and eddying mist that
sometimes drove past the illuminated skylights
like bursts of steam. The lights at Gravesend
twinkled wildly, and the loom of the high land
behind was visible in a deeper blackness above
the winking flickering sparks. The river from the
light abreast of Northwest away down as far as the
Hope looked as if a galaxy of stars were hovering
over its glooming waters ; how many vessels those
lanterns represented I could not imagine, but anyone

might easily suppose, from the appearance of
the multitudinous shining, that an immense fleet
had brought up in Gravesend Each. Most of the
lights-were stationary, but here and there you
would see one reeling and staggering with a sweeping
movement upon the darkness, denoting some
small craft tossing upon the little sea which the
strong wind had raised in the river, whilst close at
hand over the side the water glimmered amid the
deep night-shadow in dull flashes of pallid froth,
and washed in a crunching sound along the bends
of our motionless vessel, making the rudder jar
now and again with a faint rattling of the tiller
chains in the leading-sheaves. Aloft, the noise of
the wind was like the shearing of a gale through a
forest, but many a wild note there was in addition
twanged on the harp-like rigging, and you could
not have stood and listened for five minutes, with
the sobbing of the water to help your fancy, without
believing that a world of phantoms had come down
on the wings of the wind and alighted on those
darkling spars and faintly glimmering yards —
ghosts of mothers singing to wailing babies, ghosts
of ruined men groaning in their misery, ghosts of
madwomen shrieking in torment. A strange chorus,
mates, as you all know, for what sailor's thoughts
have not run to it ? though, to find a meaning
in such spirit-crying, there should be no shore -
lights about, you must be leagues and leagues

away out at sea, on the forecastle. Bay, where you
may' be alone — for aft there are the helmsman and
the officer of the watch to keep you company —
with a composant burning at the foreyard arm, and
the ocean a wild and hurling shadow around you,
with the desolate glint of foam under the bows and
trailing in a line astern, making the deep as sad asa
winter landscape with a sweep of blown snow
lying on the black land under the blacker sky.

A few minutes of this were as much as satisfied
me. I went on to the quarter-deck, and looked
through the cuddy windows. Florence and Aunt
Damaris had withdrawn to their cabin ; indeed, all
the ladies had retired, and the only occupants of
the cuddy were a group of three or four men,
Morecombe amongst them, sipping grog at that
part of the table which was nearest the stove.

Seeing the road clear I entered, walked straight
into my cabin and went to bed.

CHAPTEK V.

MR. MORECOMBE IS SEA-SICK.

Had I been a sailor just turned in after having
been twenty-four hours on deck, I could not have
fallen asleep more quickly nor slept more soundly.
At what hour Mr. Morecombe came to bed I do not
know ; I never heard him, though he was the first
thing I remembered in the morning when I awoke
and found the autumn sunshine standing like a
wall of silver against the thick glass of the large
scuttle or circular window. I put my head over
the side of the bunk and saw him underneath ; he
was wide awake, and instantly sang out, " Hallo !
good morning."

Good morning," I answered.

I say," cried he, " can you tell me the time ?
My old turnip has stopped, and hang me — aw — if I
know whether I ought to get up or not."

I looked at my watch that was in my waistcoat,
slung within reach. " A quarter to eight," said I.

At what hour do we breakfast, do you know ? "

said he, forking his legs out of bed and looking
about him for his smallclothes.

I really can't say. If you'll put your head out
the steward will tell you, if he's in sight," I replied,
debating within myself whether to get up or sham
indisposition and have breakfast in my cabin. I
decided upon the latter, and accordingly lay down
again, drawing a long face as I turned my nose upto
the deck above. The ship was on a level keel,
but there was the tremor of passing water in the
light outside, and I might easily guess that we were
in the wake of a towing tug. It was pretty plain,
however, that we had not long been under way;
fine as the weather might be now, there was too
much weight in last night's wind to leave the water
calm in the river's mouth where the Channel swell
would be, and I reckoned by the feel in the hull
that, even if we had passed the More, Prince's
Channel was still some distance ahead.

Morecombe put on his drawers and boots, and,
opening the cabin door, peered out, and catching
sight of one of the stewards, ascertained the breakfast
hour, and then said to me, " We breakfast at a
quarter to nine. Would you like to get up ?
because if so I'll go to bed until you've done
dressing. It's a dayvlish tight fit for two," says
he, looking around him, " and wot me if it isn't
too cold for tubbing. Suppose there's a bathwoom
somewhere ? "

I shan't get up," said I ; "I don't feel very well."

"Not sea-sick, are you? " he exclaimed. " Oh,
hang it all, you can't he sea-sick yet. Why, the
ship isn't moving ! "

"It's not the movement, it's the smell," said I.
It's what they call the hinge water. Sniff strongly,
and you'll see what I mean," and I gave a bit of a
grunt.

"Wot me if I'm going to sniff," says he.
Don't smell anything wong naturally, and don't
want to fancy things. I say, didn't you tell me
your name was Egerton ? "

You'll see it on that box there," I replied,
pretending to speak with an effort.

Any relation," says he, lathering himself for a
shave, " to the Tattoo Egerton ? "

"No," I replied, knowing that the fellow had a
lot of titled connections, and that I must mind
my eye.

Fulton-Park Egerton, pwaps ? " said he,
flourishing a razor and squinting at himself in
the looking-glass.

Nothing to do with them," I answered.

Is it the Ellesmere family then — or pwaps it's
Wilton ? " said he, awaiting my answer before
applying his razor.

"It's a Kentish family," said I in a faint
manner. "There were five of us, counting my
parents, and I am the only one surviving."

His mind went to work upon this answer whilst
he sheaved, but he didn't appear to make much of it.
"When that job was over he said, " What's taking
you to Australia — hailth ? "

"That's it," said I. "Lord, isn't the ship
heaving ! or can it be the bilge water ? "

"Dayvlish odd ! " cried he. "Deck's as steady
as land, and whatever bilge water may be, douce
take me if I can smell anything wong."

"Oh," said I, "perhaps you're an old sailor; if
so, it's not fair to laugh at me''

Old sailor," cried he ; " well, I've done a bit of
yachting with my uncle, Lord Rochester. Know
him ? " I wagged my head. " But I'm as ignorant
of the water and of — aw — ships of this land —
haw — by gad, as I am of tailoring. More so, douce
take me, Mr. Egerton, for, look heeah; a man
can't live long without finding out that tailors
are frightful thieves and beastly bill-discounters.
Glad to think that old Hebrew, Maddox of Bond

Street Know him?" I replied that I did

not. " Maddox isn't his wight name," continued
he ; " can't say what it is, and curse me if I care.
Glad to feel I owe him three hundred pounds,
though. He can't take a boat and follow me,
you know ; ha ! ha ! Ever been to Australia
before ? "

I made a sound that might pass for yes or no.

Vulgar people the Australians, I heal ; but,

poor cavils, they can't help it. If we send out
convicts there, why, douce seize it, it's too much
to expect their descendants to be gentlemen. Had
a little blood gone wong and they'd transported it,
why, then you know, you might expect to find
a bit of polish heeah and there-ah. I know an old
Australian cock— shan't tell you where he lives —
who's got so much money that this cabin wouldn't

hold it in sovewins. Of all the old snobs Why,

he sports a crest with as much assurance as if it
had come to him from the Conqueror ; whereas I'd
bet any man half a dozen hats that he stole or
invented it since he awived in England. A fellow
can't help sp winging from nothing, you know, but
it's adoocidpiece of impertinence when he not only
imitates his betters, but ties to pass himself off
as one of them."

His reference to Alphonso — for what other old
Australian cock should he mean ? — as a cad was
extremely agreeable to me. " Little you wot, my
aristocratic friend," thought I, as I watched him
combing his hair and putting on his high stick-up
collar, " how all that you say is being taken down
against you." Why, I never should have dreamt
that the creature was such a chatterton nor such a
consummate ass as his conversation proved him to
be. Was it very surprising that Florence should
think him a fool and despise him and reject him ?
How should such an ape make love? Even his

good looks, as I now began to perceive, were
effective only on the first impression. I had
thought him handsome, as you know, when I saw
him in Bristol — and handsome he was ; but as I
lay with my eyes upon him now, I reckoned that
the girl he married would need to be as great an
idiot as he not to find his beauty mighty insipid
after a month or two.

In handling this fellow I am annoyed to feel that
I can't put him before you with the right kind of
colour to make the picture true to life. He had a
sort of stammer impossible to express in words ; he
garnished his language with a variety of oaths — of
the most approved and modish kind, no doubt,
and quite in keeping with the character of a young
swell — but which I am obliged to soften or omit,
and so sacrifice a characteristic I remembered him
by : and he said aw and haw just as Sophie had
described (indeed, I fancied I could detect the source
of Hawke's aristocratic pronunciation and hesitation),
but in a manner so peculiar, that were he in
the next room and you heard one of those laws you
would be able to put a perfect image of the man
before you merely from catching the conceit, the
imbecility r , the impudent suggestion of condescension,
and I know not what other things which the
sound conveyed.

Having finished dressing, he said, putting on his
hat, "If we haven't left Gravesend, curse me if I

don't go ashore and have a look at the place.
Had scarcely time to do more yesterday than get
a fit of indigestion. Since I have the bore of
travelling I may as well see all I can, and as
Gravesend's a place where the common people
go and eat shrimps in the summer, I ought to be
able, when I return, to tell my friends that I've
been over it."

I did not undeceive the man, and, as he was
leaving the cabin, I asked him to be good enough
to send the steward to me. This seemed to
astonish him, for he said, " 'Stwardinawy you
should feel sea-sick ! If you're ill now, by George,
that'll you do when we get out upon the sea ? "
He then went away, and presently the steward
arrived — a smart little man in a round jacket and
bow legs, named Hay.

"When breakfast is ready, let me have a cup
of tea and something to eat here, will you ? "
said I.

"Yes, sir."

Where are we now, steward?"

In the Warp, sir," he answered, naming the
well-known stretch of river betwixt the More and
the Gaze Deep.

Is the captain on deck ? "

He's just gone into his cabin," replied Hay.

Please go at once and tell him, with my
compliments, that his friend, Mr. Jack Egerton,

will breakfast in his cabin, and that he hopes to be
able to go on deck during the afternoon."

I knew that Daniel would understand my meaning
: for you see, on recalling his short memory I
was afraid that he would forget to tell Florence
I was aboard unless I employed some means to
remind him of his promise. However, I was
speedily eased of that fear by the steward returning.
" The captain's compliments to you, sir, and
he certainly hopes you will be well enough to come
on deck this afternoon, and perhaps before. He'll
look in upon you, sir, after breakfast."

Well, there I lay in my bunk, sometimes laughing
to myself until I was like to split, when I
thought of Morecombe and the wonderful absurdity
of our sharing the same cabin, and then falling as
grave as a judge and feeling a kind of tremble
running through me when I turned my mind to
Florence and wondered how she would receive the
news of my being in the ship and what sort of
greeting she would give me when Daniel "introduced
" us. I pulled out her locket, which, you
may reckon, boys, I wore day and night, and found
a sort of strength in kissing it, for after all I
considered she must like me a deal more than a
little bit to have sent me that keepsake, and she
surely would not like me less for following her to
the world's end, as I was literally doing. Anyhow,
she could not use me worse than she had

treated Morecorube, if there was any meaning in
the manner I spied in her when I peered through
the skylight last night; and when I recalled the
bit of behaviour I had taken notice of, it surprised
me that the man should be able to carry himself
so easily as he did in his imbecile conversation
with me ; for knowing how her coldness would
affect me, I found it mighty hard to understand
his indifference, for so it seemed, even when I had
made the most liberal allowance for him as a conceited
fool who was cock-sure in his own mind of
winning the girl sooner or later, and was only
astonished that such a killing, lovely, highly-connected
creature should not have been instantly
accepted.

The first breakfast bell was rung, and half-an-hour
later I could hear all the passengers at table,
a regular hum of voices, broken by the clattering
of plates and now and again the loud distinct
tones of Captain Jackson and Mrs. O'Brien. I
strained my ear to catch the only notes which
would fall sweetly upon it, and sometimes fancied
I could detect the rich bell-like music of my
darling's voice ; but fancy it was, of course, and
I wished it to be so, for it pleased me best to think
of her as cold and silent, and averting her beautiful
face from the eye-glass that I might reckon would
be peering at her hard by, with a puppy's eye
behind it.

The steward came into my cabin with a well-stocked
tray, in the inspiration of which methought
I could trace my friend Daniel ; and glad was I to
fall to, for the aroma of the good things on the
cuddy table stealing in through the venetian-like
panelling of the door had excited a lively hunger
in me. I speedily cleared the tray, tumbled out of
my bunk, shaved and dressed myself, and then,
opening the scuttle and finding it to leeward, I
lighted a pipe and smoked it with my face in the
aperture, so that no smell of the tobacco should
pass into the cuddy. It was like looking through
a telescope without the magnification. Only a
small view was to be got through the open port,
but what there was of it was all sunshine and
streaming waters, a kind of trembling white
radiance, with the lines of the breeze-swept river-surface
shining like ribs of polished steel through
it, and a glimpse across the Kentish flats of the
WLitstable and Heme Bay coast, looking like a
stretch of blue haze. The tug was towing bravely,
and the noise of the seething of the foam from her
paddles washing past beneath me came up like
the sound of a fountain ; but I would now and
again hear an ominous creak, a significant strain
of timber or bulwark, and note that the horizon
would take a slight slant first toward the bows and
then towards the stern, as if it were the central
portion of some gigantic see-saw. If, thought I

VOL. II. II

we are beginning to feel the swell' here, we should
be finding a pleasant tumble further on.

Another half-hour passed. The motion was
growing more defined, the creaking busier, and I
was beginning to feel mighty tired of my cabin and
to pine for the sunshine, and the breeze, and the
leg stretching space of poop. What! already?
Somebody was sick in the next cabin. The
groaning was as that of a monk wrestling with
Beelzebub. There was no periodical explosion,
no hopeful and soothing blow-up, but a steady
grumbling, and now and again a slight roar. On
a sudden a tap fell on my door, and in walked
Daniel Thompson. His red face was illuminated
by a broad grin, whilst he snuffed and exclaimed
in a sepulchral voice, " Hallo ! who's been smoking
here?"

It's that box," said I, pointing to Morecombe's ;
"it's full of tobacco. How are you, Daniel, and
what news have you brought me?"

"Well, I've done your business," he answered.
It's all right. She knows you're aboard. You
can clear out of this."

"Have you really explained already?" cried I.
"What did she say? For heaven's sake, speak
out, Daniel ; I thought you were coming to see me
after breakfast to arrange what to say to her ? "

I'm not going to make a long yarn of it," he
replied. "I have other things to do. See here,

Jack, it was after breakfast : she and her aunt and
Mr. Morecornbe were on the poop. Hallo ! what's
that noise ? "

Somebody sick next door," I replied. " Heave
ahead, Thompson."

"Well, they were on the poop. Presently the
aunt goes below, young Morecornbe having previously
stepped over to Mrs. O'Brien to answer
some question she had sung out to him. I saw
my chance and went up to the girl, and after
manoeuvring a bit, as nervous as a stammering
chap in a witness-box, and wishing you at Jericho
for putting me on such a job, I told her plump that
you had asked me to say you were aboard under
some name which I couldn't for the moment
recollect."

"Well?"

11 Well — she just turned the colour of the ship's
ensign. Split me, Jack, if ever I saw a girl blush
so heavily before," said he. "A red Indian
wouldn't have been in it alongside her. I'd have
sheered off right away for fear that the others
might twig the rosy look, and suspect I was
making love to her, if I hadn't been more afraid,
if they saw me go off in a hurry, that they'd
imagine I had insulted her. But I say, my friend
she's a real beauty. You have a correct taste.
She's a fine girl. I don't know that I ever saw
a handsomer eve in a female. ' I'm an old friend

of his,' said I, ' and I undertake this job merely to
oblige him, and, I hope, you too,' said I. ' He
declines to show up until I've informed you hein
the ship, and the next business, I think,' said I,
he wants me to undertake, is to introduce him to
you as if you were strangers, which, when done,
will complete all that my friend Jack expects of
me.

Was that all that passed ? " said I.

That's all," he answered.

I thanked him heartily for his kindness, assuring
him that as a friend in need he was the best of all
friends, and I begged him to believe that I appreciated
his friendliness all the more for knowing
how the sense of his being skipper would bother
him in his willingness to lend me a hand.

"What will you do now?" said he. "There's
no need to keep below, is there ? I think you told
me the aunt don't know you ? "

I answered that I would go forward, where I
could command the poop ; if Florence was alone
I would come aft, but I explained that it would not
be advisable to introduce me in the presence of
the aunt, as Florence's manner, on our first meeting,
might betray us.

"All right," said he; "but you'll understand,
Jack, after I've introduced you to her you must
go on making love alone. I'll have nothing more
to do with it ; and I hope you'll tell her never

on any account in the future to speak of the
part I have played, for though it might make
my fortune among the girls it would ruin me
among the fathers, who, after all, are the people
who choose ships and pay the passage money."

I promised him in the most solemn manner
that not a syllable concerning him should ever
escape Miss Hawke or me, and he then went away.

I was in the act of struggling into a top coat,
when the door was violently flung open and Mr.
Morecombe bolted in. He was deadly pale, and
his chest hollowed and swelled out like a pair of
bellows, whilst his face had a twist in it as
though he was strangling. He stood in the middle
of the cabin glaring around him whilst a man
might have counted ten, and his eyes then lighting
on the wash-basin, he rushed up to it and
vomited in the most dreadful manner that ever I
beheld. No doubt I was right in suspecting that
he had felt sick for some time, but had been
fighting with his qualms on deck, and had rushed
below to be ill out of sight of Miss Hawke. I
tell you, his sufferings seemed dreadful, and he
raised such an outcry as he hung over the basin,
with both hands grasping his waistcoat, the perspiration
streaming down his face, and first one
leg and then the other giving a wild kick up astern
of him as he roared, that I had not the heart
to leave him until his paroxysm was over.

Let nie give you a hand into your bunk," said
I. " You can't do better than lie down, and I will
send the steward to you."

Well, I bundled him into his bunk, and never
did a more woebegone face embellish a pillow.
Ladies, you should have seen this good-looking
fellow ! I pulled open his shirt-collars, which were
choking him, and hauled off his boots and put the
basin alongside of him. He lay groaning and
moaning like a wounded man, and the noise he
made appeared to have started off the person in
the next cabin afresh, for in the intervals of More-combe's
ramblings I could hear the muffled notes
of similar sounds beyond the bulkhead. I quitted
the cabin, and calling to the steward, told him
to look after the gentleman in number 4, and then
went on to the main deck, watched with some
surprise by the little bow-legged fellow, who would
scarcely know what to make of a man that was one
moment too ill to leave his bed for the breakfast
table, and the next was stepping along the deck
with the deep sea-roll that comes like an instinct
the moment the trained leg feels the heave of
a deck-plank.

Chapter VI.

WITH MY LOVE.

A noble morning it was, streaming and shining,
a light blue sky and a crescent of mares' tails over
the masthead and a flock of steam-coloured clouds
scattering on the lee horizon, where the land was
a greenish film on our starboard bow. To windward
the pale green water ran into the whitish
sky, and all that way there was nothing to be seen
but a deep collier swarming along stiff as a church,
with her yards hard against the lee rigging. The
black smoke of the tug blew away from our flying
jibboom end, and our ship followed with every
stay-sail upon her hoisted, a crowd of passengers
on the forecastle sunning themselves and standing
black against the white cloths of the jibs, a blue
vein breaking from the galley chimney, the gay
decks glittering like sand, and a sweep of blue
heaven deepening and lightening beyond the curve
of the bows, which rose and sank upon the ruffled
folds of the swell that was rolling out of the

Channel into which we were heading. I stepped as
far as the main-hatch and then took a squint aft.
The pilot was walking athwart the poop close to
the brass rail, taking a sharp look ahead and
around at every turn, but I had to go a little
further to see as much as I needed of the poop, and
when abreast of the galley I stopped again and saw
Florence near the mizzen mast talking to some
children.

Three or four only of the passengers were about,
and Aunt Damaris was certainly not one of them.
Thompson stood right aft near the wheel, and the
idea coming into my head that he was waiting
there to " introduce " me, and might be wondering
what on earth was keeping me below, I pulled
myself together and stepped without further ado
on to the poop. He spied me the moment my
head was above the ladder, and advanced to
meet me.

"Jack," said he, "there's the lady, but you
don't want me to introduce you, do ye? Hang
it, there's nobody looking. Give me as little to do
in this job as you can, mate."

Let's carry the programme through," I replied,
my heart thumping under my coat. " You told
her you would introduce me." (This was not quite
true, by the way). " Some confounded eye that
we don't suspect may be on us ; so take me up to
her, will you ? "

Florence had her back upon us, and pointed to
the collier, whilst she talked to the children.

"Come along, then," said Thompson. "If it
must be done, let's get it over; " and, leaving me
to follow, he went up to Florence, who, in turning
to him, saw me. Nobody but the nurse who had
charge of the children was near enough to notice
what was going on, and she called the youngsters
away when we advanced; and lucky it was that
nobody paid attention, for the abrupt manner in
which Daniel had walked up to my darling and
the extraordinary flourish he made over the business
of introducing me must have set any observer
wondering.

"Allow me, Miss Hawke," said he, contorting
himself into the queerest of nautical bows, and
waving his hands as though he were motioning
to the man at the wheel, " to have the pleasure of
introducing my friend Jack Edge — Edgy — hum !
Mr. Jack Edgymore to you. Mr. Edgymore — Miss
Hawke. Nice weather, Miss Hawke. The tug
will be dropping us presently, and then we shall
make sail, you know. Ahem ! yes, that will be
it ; " and he fixed a bewildered eye on me as if he
should say, "Must I go on talking a bit, or walk
off at once ? "

I raised my hat, and Florence, not being able
to help herself, bowed, though one glance into each
other's eyes was enough to satisfy us that we both

equally felt the absurdity of this situation. But
trying in its way as it was, let me tell you, lads,
that her composure and self-possession could not
have been completer had this been really our first
introduction. A bright colour had flashed into her
cheeks when she turned and saw me, but it was
gone before Daniel had ended his speech, and looking
at me with a faint, nervous, twitching smile
upon her lips, she said in her sweet quiet voice
through which ran a kind of tremble, " I was very
much surprised when Captain Thompson told me
that you were on board the Stratford and going
to Australia, Mr. Seymour."

When she pronounced my name Daniel laughed,
and then appearing to find something deeply
interesting in the sky to windward, he crossed the
deck.

"I hope you are not angry with me," I began,
scarcely knowing what to say, and hardly able to
realize that I was alongside her at last, talking to
her, looking into her beautiful eyes, and that this
was just the very beginning of many weeks of
constant association.

Indeed I have not had time to find out," she
replied. " I am too much astonished. I had no
idea you would take such a step. If Sophie knew
your intention, she should have told me."

"I assure you she knew nothing whatever about
it," I replied. " I dared not trust her for fear of

my project reaching your ears, and perhaps your
father's. She wrote to tell rne she wondered that
I did not try to see you before you left, which made
my secret the harder for me to keep from her, but
her surprise will end when she gets my letter.
Did you think I could endure to be separated from
you? You sent me this to remember you by,"
said I, hauling out the locket, " but did you believe
it would suffice ? There is only one thing in this
world that will satisfy me as a keepsake — and that
is yourself."

She bent her eyes downwards, quietly smiling.
Thompson was talking to the pilot ; Mrs. O'Brien
had got hold of the children and was amusing
them ; Captain Jackson and his wife stumped the
other side of the poop arm in arm ; everybody else
belonging aft was below.

Of course you know, Mr. Seymour, that my
aunt is with me ? " said she, after a pause.

Yes," I replied. " She is the reason why I
have shipped as Jack Egerton ? Will you call me
Egerton ? If you address me as Seymour she will
guess who I am."

Ought I to say I will? " she answered, smiling.
It will be so difficult." And then with an uneasy
look coming into her face she said, " Are you fair
in asking me to be deceitful ? I wish you had not
come."

Don't for heaven's sake, say so ! " cried I.

If my presence annoys you, I'll shift my quarters
into the 'tween decks yonder, and never approach
this part of the vessel for the rest of the voyage.
It will be something, at all events, to feel that
I am in the same ship with you. When I made
up my mind to follow you I never feared that you
would wish I had not come. It's true that I did
not dare hope you would be glad to see me, but
I counted upon your not being angry, for it is for
love of you, and only for that, Florence, that I have
followed you."

"I am not angry, Mr. Sey — , Mr. Edg — , Mr. —
Oh, what am I to call you ? " she exclaimed,
colouring and stammering. "I do not want you
to leave this part of the ship; I — I — " The
darling broke down, looking away with her sweet
eyes over the sea, with a trembling of the lovely
lashes as though tears were not far off ; and then
rallying a ;bit she said in her gentle way, with a
quiver in the lower notes of her voice : " The
deceitfulness is the only part I dislike. I shall
never be able to address you as Mr. Egerton without
feeling that I am telling a story."

"Then," said I, peeping round into her face,
"if you can't help feeling that it will be wrong to
call me Mr. Egerton, say Jack when we are alone
that will be enough ; there's no need to address
me by any name when others are present."

Here came another pause, and then said she —

Do you know that Mr. Reginald Morecombe is
in this ship ? "

"Perfectly well," I replied. "He shares my
cabin ; and I have just left him horribly sea-sick,
after stowing him away in his bunk."

u What ! does he know you are here ? " she cried,
with her eyes wide open with wonder.

He knows that Mr. Egerton is here — that's all,"
I answered.

But have you never met before ? "

I caught a glimpse of him once at Bristol, but
he did not see me, and does not know me from
Adam."

She raised her hands with a gesture of astonishment,
and then I suppose the absurdity of his
sharing my cabin — indeed, the ridiculousness of
the position we were all of us in — struck her ; she
broke into a short semi-hysterical laugh, though
she grew very soon grave again, and turned a
glance now and then at the companion hatch which
caused me to ask her if she expected her aunt to
come on deck.

"I don't think she will come," she answered.
She complained of feeling a little sick, and went
to her cabin to lie down."

Does not this motion inconvenience you ? "

"Not in the least," she replied; and indeed I
had already noticed how easily she poised her
beautiful figure to the heave of the deck. Looking

at her closely whilst we conversed, and better able
to observe points in her now that my agitation was
gone, I took notice of a certain careworn expression
in her face — a sorrowful appearance that would
have passed with me as the grief she would feel
in saying good-bye to her home, were it not that
it looked too old to belong to the date of her farewell.
She caught me watching her wistfully, and
I at once said —

I am afraid they have been making you unhappy
on my account. You haven't the healthful,
happy looks I remember, Florence ; though, please
God, they'll be coming back to you now."

She did not answer me ; whether or not she
liked me calling her Florence, there was no rebuke
in her face when I said the word.

"I heard from Sophie," said I, "that you were
a good deal worried when in Scotland. Did you
know that Mr. Morecombe was to be one of the
Stmthmores passengers ? "

How can you ask me ? " she answered quickly,
with a sparkle like a tear in her eyes, and the cold
look I had noticed when peering at her through
the skylight on the previous evening coming into
her face. " I should not be here if I had known."

Ah ! " said I, " I see how the coast lies now.
What a mean wretch he must be to pursue you in
this fashion after your flat rejection of him. The
instant I entered my cabin and spied the fellow's

traps I saw the plot. How could your father have
the heart to subject you to this sort of thing ?
What opinion can he have of you not to guess that
the more Mr. Morecombe worries you the more
you will hate him ! " .

She could not help smiling at this, dejected as
she looked and was, and said —

The idea of the voyage is Aunt Damans', not
papa's," as though she would apologize for her
father.

And was it Miss Damaris Hawke who suggested
the notion of Mr. Morecomhe's voyaging to Australia
with you?"

I cannot tell you, Mr. Sey— , Mr. "

"Jack — say Jack, Florence," I exclaimed. "If
you will not think of me as myself, think of me as
Sophie's cousin, and you'll not find Jack hard to
pronounce. If you do not mind me calling you
Florence, why should you hesitate to call me
Jack?"

"You call me Florence without asking my leave
how do you know I don't mind ? " she answered.

Well, it was early times to press this matter of
Jack, so I went back to my question as to what
share Aunt Damaris had in the plot that had
brought young Morecombe into the Stratford.
She replied that she could not say, as until she
came aboard at Gravesend she did not know that
Mr. Morecombe meant to sail in the ship. She

said that shortly after their arrival in Scotland
Aunt Damaris had asked her if she would like to
return to Sydney with her in September, and stop
a few months there. She answered yes, the
voyage would amuse her, and she would be glad to
see Sydney again. A little later her father talked
to her on the same matter, and made her see he
wished her to go with her aunt ; so then she took
the thing in earnest, and wrote to Sophie about it,
but she had not the least idea that the voyage was
a plan to bring her. and More combe together ; she
never thought when she left England to see the
youth again, otherwise, though she was quite
willing to go to Australia, she never would have
sailed in that ship with him. She told me this in a
very quiet way, speaking softly and often looking at
me anxiously as if she feared I might distrust any
portion of her narrative. She did not utter a word
against her father or her aunt, nevertheless she
contrived somehow or other to make me see that
ever since she had met me she had led an uncomfortable,
if not an unhappy life at her home ; and
that being so, then there was very little to wonder
at in her willingness to leave it for a spell. I
noticed that as we continued conversing the embarrassment
she had first shown passed away, she
warmed up, glancing at me with a sort of pleasure
in her eyes as if she was beginning to thoroughly
realize that I was on board. And, my lads, even if

this girl thought of me then as no more than a
friend, there would be a pleasantness when she
looked along the ship and saw the crowd of strange
people on the main deck and forecastle and then
over the bows and beheld the leagues of heaving
sea there, in remembering that I was on board,
with a face that brought up pleasant memories of
Clifton, and Bristol Cathedral, and Sophie, and the
like ; for though, to be sure, her aunt was in the
ship, the feeling that the old woman sided with her
brother and had meanly played into his hands
would so qualify the sense of companionship as to
make the girl feel, when she looked around the sea,
that she was hardly less alone than the loneliest of
the 'tween-deck passengers. So I believe that she
would have been glad to know that I was on board,
even had I been merely a friend ; but it would not
do to pretend that I was no more than that to her.
There were memories between us which rose in meas
sweet as the recollection of kisses, and her
nervousness and wonder at my presence being past,
she could not view the ocean towards which we
were towing, nor reflect that these were the first
hours of a voyage that was to last for some months,
without guessing that it must be something deeper
than a boyish whim that had brought me alongside
of her to take my chance of what she might think
and how she might treat me.

I was much too earnest and absorbed in talk

VOL. II. I

with her to take notice of what was passing around.
The swell of the sea was growing longer and
heavier, and the funnel of the tug waved handsomely
athwart our hawse as the great ship curtsied
solemnly in her wake. Mrs. O'Brien, the nurse,
and the children had gone below, and the only
persons now on the poop besides ourselves were the
pilot, the captain, the second mate, who stood to
leeward near the mizzen rigging, and Captain
Jackson and his wife. I should have said, had I
been asked to forecast this adventure, that it would
have taken me some time to reconcile Florence to
my presence; that the sense that her father, were
he to know that I was on board, would command her
to have nothing to do with me, would weigh upon
her as a heavy obligation ; and that consequently
it would cost me a long struggle to bring her heart
nearer to mine — though if I had ever doubted of
accomplishing this, never of course would I have
undertaken the voyage. But whether it was that
she liked me better than I should have dared to
believe, or that her indignation at finding this
voyage nothing but a trap set by her father and
aunt for Morecombe to catch her in made her
defiant, I found after the first five or ten minutes
of uneasiness that she talked to me freely and
gladly. She never appeared to give herself any
trouble as to Aunt Damaris' movements, and,
instead of thinking we had conversed long enough,

and that she ought to go to her aunt in the cabin,
she immediately joined me in patrolling the deck
when I proposed walking for fear that she would
feel the cold by standing. I caught Thompson
grinning away like clockwork as we faced round on
reaching the taffrail. What there was in us to
tickle his fancy I do not know and did not care. I
was passionately proud, happy beyond expression,
triumphantly joyous at having my darling with me,
keeping me company, talking with a lighter note
in her dear voice, and letting me see, though
without an atom of coquetry, that her first alarm
at sight of me was false to her deeper feelings, and
that she was welcoming me now — not perhaps as a
man whom she loved, but as a man whom she
knew devotedly loved her. She talked to me as if
it did her good to open her mind, and although you
may think that she ought to have found Mr. More-combe
a delicate subject to discuss with me, I
assure you she spoke out about him with great
frankness, and seemed to be amazed at his hardihood
in taking this voyage with her after her
refusal of him.

Oh, but he's such a fool," said I ; "so ludicrously
self-conceited that he won't believe you're
in earnest. He supposes, I dare say, you don't
know him well enough, but that you'll have found
him out before you get to Sydney, and allow yourself
to be vanquished."

She smiled disdainfully. " At all events," said
she, " I've made up my mind to return in this
ship. I have said nothing to Aunt Damaris, nor
shall I for some time to come, but if Mr. More-combe
intends to remain in Sydney, that place will
not be big enough to contain me too, and I shall
go home with your friend Captain Thompson."

As she said this, my mind went to the fellow
groaning and writhing on his back in the cabin,
and I said, " If he's going to continue as sea-sick
as he's begun he'll have more than he wants of the
voyage before we are out of the Channel."

Why," asked she suddenly, " do you insist
upon calling yourself Egerton ? "

Because," I replied, " if your aunt finds out
who I am she will not allow you to speak to me."

Here eyes took a brighter light as she exclaimed,
Do not you think I have any will of my own ?
There is no harm in your speaking to me, Mr.
Seymour, and if I choose to let you do so I do not
think that my aunt would object."

There was a perfect revelation to me in these few
words. Sweet and tender and gloriously lovable
I always knew her to be, but never should I have
believed that with the adorable qualities of her
heart she combined real force of character. And
yet, upon my word, I had only to remember how she
had refused Morecombe in defiance of all the influence
her father could bring to bear upon her,

unci how loyally she had stuck to my cousins, and
with what a brave, uncomplaining soul she embarked
on this long voyage, to wonder that I should have
needed a speech from her to find out that she had
a high spirit. I hardly knew what answer to
make her.

I don't wish to influence you," she continued,
"but if you have assumed a name only for my
sake, let me assure you the disguise is unnecessary.
You are quite right in supposing that my aunt
would be very vexed to find you on board, but why
should I study other people's feelings when I see
how little mine are considered. I'm not responsible
for your being here, but my aunt is answerable for
Mr. Morecombe's presence, and she came to the
ship at Gravesend expecting to find him in her, as
I could see by the way they met. Aunt Damaris
doesn't mind humiliating me by this plot, as yon
might call it, and since you are on board, Mr.
Seymour, I do not know why she should not be told
who you are."

There was no anger in her manner, but she
spoke as a woman would who is deeply offended,
with a flush in her cheek and a sparkling in her
eyes and a trembling of the lips.

I will do whatever you wish," I replied, " and
I feel the truth of all that you say, believe
me. But as my name is down as Egerton, as
the stewards and others know me by that name,

and as it is on my luggage, it would be rather
awkward to alter it. And then," said I, " think of
the effect of the discovery upon Mr. Moreconibe,
who, you must know, sleeps in the bunk undermine.
We should end our days like the Kilkenny-cats.
If Sydney would not be big enough to hold
you and him, I am sure this ship would not be large
enough to hold him and me if once I discovered
that he knew who I was."

She broke into one of her old merry laughs, and
said, " You will do as you like, I suppose, but I
shall never be able to speak or think of you as Mr.
Egerton, aristocratic as the name is."

I want you to think of me as Jack and call me
so — not of course before others, but when we art
alone. Will you ? " I asked.

I can't tell you now," she replied, coming to a
stand at the companion ; and putting her foot upon
the step, she looked a few moments at the haze of
land on the starboard beam with a shadow of
melancholy on her beautiful eyes, and then saying,
There is no chance of our not meeting again soon
now" she went below.

CHAPTER VII.

MB. M0BEC0MBE IS VERY ILL.

The moment Florence was gone, Daniel came upto
me. I should have been glad of a spell of solitude,
if merely to enjoy the luxury of thinking over
this meeting and conversation with my darling
girl, and the noble hope that had come to me ; but
my friend was not to be put off.

"You have had a longish bout of it, Jack," said he.
"How have you enjoyed yourself? By thunder,
she has a proper face and figure ! Does she use
her heels or her toes when she walks ? Never saw
such a floating movement in a woman on a rolling
deck. Will not she be a fine dancer now, eh ?
How have you got on ? "

Pretty much as you did when you were courting,
Daniel. I'm greatly obliged to you for your
friendly offices."

Not at all. Glad to have been able to steer
you ; but you're on your own hook now, my lad ;
well out of my pilotage district, and must shift for

yourself. But that I think you know how to do.
How does she relish you under that confounded
name of yours, which I never can remember ? "

I made him some kind of answer, and changed
the subject by asking where the tug was to drop
us. " Abreast of the Foreland," he replied.
Yonder 's Margate," and he pointed to the land
which, owing to the haziness, loomed faintly in the
distance, as though it were leagues away.

The wind had freshened, and was blowing a
steady breeze with weight enough in it to give a
heel to the ship, though she was under fore and aft
canvas only. The swell came along from the north
and east with a regular Channel roll, and a bit of
a sea on top that hissed sharply in small green
surges, and made an eager glancing under the sun
that sailed fast among the squadrons of windy
clouds which swarmed along the pale autumn blue.
The swell was nearly ahead, and the ship pitched
slowly as she went, smothering a broad space of
water around her with a surface of blowing and
winking and shining foam at every crushing and
shearing blow of the powerful bows and cutwater ;
and the tug ahead sometimes rolled sponsors under
as she dragged at us, now and again hoisting one
or the other of her wheels almost bodily out of
water into the air, where you could see it spin
round like a circle of bright steel sparkling wet in
the sun, and dipping her head in the smother she

raised until the sea-line beyond stood, as high as
the bridge, and then slackening the great hawser
into a bight as her stern swooped into the snow
under her counter and gave us a clear view of her
deck. Some of the steerage passengers overhung
our forecastle rail or main deck bulwarks, very
sick. The chief officer was forward standing by
for the tug to let go, and the crew lounged about
waiting for the order to make sail. It was a
moment full of interest and excitement. The little
steamer^ahead was the final link that connected us
with home, and she would be dropping us very
soon, like the withdrawal of the hand that gives
you the last shake. There was a fleet of smacks
watching to the eastwards on our port bow, jumping
the green hollows heavily and crowding a space of
the cloudy sky and the jagged olive-green of the
hazy horizon with their chocolate-coloured sails; a
few gulls hung in our wake peering with arched
necks into the boiling eddies and balancing themselves
like shapes of marble against the streaming
wind, now and again uttering hoarse cries as they
stooped to the foam which flew scattering from
the rolling coils of the waves like feathers from
their own beautiful breasts ; right ahead of us
was a deal galley flashing through the seas under
her fragment of reefed canvas, with a couple of
men in yellow oilskins sitting to windward and a
fellow crouching aft ; the wind was keen and damp

with spray as it blew in moans over the bulwarks
and rushed with a shriek through the rigging into
the staysails, and there was a hard look in the sky T
to the southward and eastward, away past the tiny
red dancing blotch of the North Sands Head lightship,
which made me suspect that a teaser lay
lurking there in readiness for us presently.

We were heading to pass the Goodwin to the
eastward, which would keep the land a shadow
wherever it was. About three quarters of an hour
after Florence had left the deck the tug dropped
us. Lunch was on the table ; I had slipped below
to get something to eat, and I would have stopped
there had Florence been visible, but not seeing her,
and preferring the busy cheerful scene on deck to
Captain Jackson's views on the decadence of the
Royal Navy and Mrs. O'Brien's loud abuse of her
native country, I was soon on the poop again,
watching the tug pitching and flinging the green
water in shining showers of emeralds over her forward
deck as she swept in a long curve away from
us, a fellow on the bridge waving his hat, and the
thick smoke of the funnel blowing like flying scud
straight into the land. Hands were aloft on our
ship, canvas was rattling its folds, chain sheets
were grinding and tearing upon the sheaves, and
the crew were springing about in all directions
raising those hoarse peculiar cries which are
to my ears as much a portion of ocean sounds

as the seething of foam or the singing of the
wind.

I remained on deck, constantly hoping that
Florence would arrive. Though her aunt was
apparently prostrate there was evidently no fear of
sea-sickness attacking my sweetheart, for whilst we
had walked and talked I took notice that she
seemed to feel the ship under her as a horsewoman
would a frolicsome mare, and to enjoy the vessel's
jumping as though the dance were a hurdle-race.
I stumped about, sniffing up the keen salt wind
and tasting the spray on my lips and relishing the
sweetness of it, my thoughts full of my darling,
though some little attention I could give to the
ship and the foaming and rushing sea through
which the Stratford was squeezing and rolling.
Such were the fancies my talk with Florence had
put into my head, that it seemed to me, if her
father had wanted to play into my hands, he could
not have done letter than send his daughter to
Australia along with Morecornbe. Particularly had
I noticed the resentment in her when she spoke of
her aunt. The more she thought over the ruse,
the more pained and disgusted was she bound to
feel. It was not for her health, for her amusement,
that her father had sent her away; no, but that
Morecombe and she might be locked up in a place
where no Jack Seymour could intrude upon her to
whine out his love. Mr. Hawke's young friend

would have her all to himself; and, backed by
Aunt Damaris, would end in getting her to accept
him ; that was the idea, and to obtain that man asa
son-in-law, merely because some of these days he
would be making his wife her ladyship, Mr. Hawke
was willing to send his child to Australia, lose her
companionship for he would scarcely know how
long, subject her to the dangers of the sea, and
inflict upon her the attentions of the creature she
had already refused ! Would not such considerations
vex and disgust my high-spirited girl more
and more as she looked into and understood them ?
It was all new to her yet ; only yesterday had she
discovered the meaning of the voyage ; but already
had it done a deal of work in her feelings, as I
could tell ; and, faith, I should not have been much
of a lover if I did not quietly rejoice over the possibility
of her rebelling against her father's wishes ina
manner sweeter to myself and more emphatic to
h im than was signified in the mere refusal of Mr.
Morecombe's empty heart and itching palm.

We had left the North Sands Head lightness
dancing fast and furious a long way astern, and
the deep ship, pressed down pretty nearly to her
covering-board by the weight of her whole topsails
into which the wind was rushing with a shout
as though it must presently burst through the
strained, distended spaces, was heavily breaking
her way through the quick fierce head sea of the

Channel, her forecastle dark and wet, her running
gear blowing out in semicircles, the forelock groaning
like a wounded giant with every weather roll of
the hull, the crew in oilskins, the older salts among
them casting their eyes to windward at the stormy
look of the driving sky that way, and then aloft in
evident readiness for an order to reef down ; and
the decks forward wholly cleared of the passengers
by the Hying wet. It was a winter-piece, for the
wind was as raw as if frost were in it, the sea
was a hard dark green out on the horizon, the
clouds as they flew out of the south and east and
swept like smoke over our mast-heads seemed to
be full of snow, with their slate-coloured bellies
fining into a whitish grey at the skirts, and
though the distance was thick, } r et there was the
sharpness of outline 3'ou see in things on a clear
frosty January morning in all objects this side the
haze, such as the buoy that sliced past us, rising
and falling amid a showering of spray and leaning
with the tide, in the white water that flashed and
quivered upon the submerged Goodwin, in the two
or three black-hulled smacks which were heading
for the North Sea, burying their bowsprits with
every chopping fall, and in the paddle-steamer that
was passing us on our port quarter, her sides
shining like oil as she lifted away from us, with her
red wheel twinkling over the foam in which the
next roll would bury it.

I was about to go below to be out of the wind
for a spell, when the order to clew up the maintop -
gallant sail was given ; and a minute afterwards
another order was delivered, the chief mate echoed
it, and the boatswain's pipe took it up with a long
piercing silvery whistling, instantly followed by his
hurricane roar of "All hands reef topsails I" I
lingered to watch an old familiar scene. The topgallant
halliards were let go, the sail clewed up,
and the rigging jumped to the sprawling of the
fellows who slapped the ratlines as they mounted
the shrouds and swarmed over the top like
revolving porpoises. Down came the three topsail
yards with a tearing sound of whirling sheaves and
rattling of chains, and then followed a thumping
and thundering of canvas as the reef-tackles were
manned, whilst the seamen heartily chorused, and
the ship, with her way slackened and the pressure
aloft nearly gone, bowed and curtsied with almost
erect spars upon the head sea that poured in sharp
concussions against her weather bow. When I
saw the third mate jump aloft for the weather
mizzen topsail earring, followed by the brass-founders
and an ordinary seaman or two, my fingers
languished for the feel of a ratline and a reef point ;
but it did not answer my purpose to let the cuddy
passengers — a few of whom had come on deck on
hearing the noise — see me on the topsail yard, and
guess from the spectacle that I knew the difference

betwixt a backstay and a brass rail ; so I kept
where I was.

Keeping topsails is a lively thing to watch, boys,
as yeu know, when there are hands enough for all
three sails at once, and the men are nimble ; for
at such a time there will be plenty of wind — unless
you're providing against a low glass in what Jack
Spaniard calls a furious calm — and the screeching
of it as it sweeps off the combing ridges with a
slanting bound right up along the canvas, making
it boom like a thousand drummer-boys at work up
there, is the sort of accompaniment that is wanted
to make music of the deep sea-notes of the men
lighting over to windward and hauling out to
leeward ; the surges run along the bends with a
wild washing noise : the wheel leaps in the hands
of the man grasping the spokes as the sea smites
the rudder and swings up full and gurgling under
the counter ; and there is a kind of strangeness
in the recovery of the ship from the slope she has
been rushing along with, and in the tumbling,
rolling, straining, creaking pause as if something
was wrong. Well, I stopped until the men were
off the yards, and had masthead them with a
rattling chanted at each halliard, and then taking
notice as the ship leaned down again under her
single-reefed canvas and snapped and worried the
seas as she gained way, how a number of windbound
craft in the Downs over our lee bow were

shaping themselves out of the haze in rocking
outlines, and how the coast there, which should be
as white as milk in the sunshine, hung like a
smoky louring of vapour betwixt heaven and water,
I walked to the companion and trotted down the
steps, feeling all the enjoyment of a special privilege
now that my darling and I had been properly
introduced, and we could meet without risk of a
betraying exclamation or an equally traitor-like
blush, such as Daniel had described.

On entering my cabin I found a man seated on
a box close to Morecombe, who lay in his bunk
moaning in the most dismal manner. The stranger
stood up as I shut the door, and suspecting from
his appearance that he was the ship's surgeon,
whom I had not before seen, no doubt from the
circumstance of his cabin and apothecary's shop
being in the steerage under the cuddy, I asked
him straight if he was the doctor, and he answered
Yes : I have been called to this gentleman by
the steward. He is certainly very bad, I don't
like his symptoms at all. Indeed I don't believe
he ought to continue the voyage."

I peered into the bunk, and my eyes getting
used to the gloom — for, you see, the sky was made
up of whirling vapour, and the scuttle which the
lee heel of the ship pointed at the sea let in but
very little of what light there was — I made out
Mr. Morecombe tying like a corpse, his eyes closed,

his face of the colour of a turnip, with goats of
sweat all over it, with a kind of saliva draining
from the lips, whilst the posture of his arms and
half-closed hands indicated an exhaustive degree
of prostration. I did not need the surgeon, whose
name was Griffith — a young red-headed chap
fresh from the hospitals, I suppose, and who had
shipped like most sea-doctors do, to get experience
by experimenting on poor Jack — I did not want
him, I say, to tell me that Morecombe was in a
very bad way. I really could not help pitying the
fellow, as he lay with moaning noises breaking
from his mouth and looking like a dying man, and,
said I, forgetting that we should have to land the
pilot, " If you think he should not pursue the
voyage, what's to be done ? We're bound right
away out ; there's to be no more stopping, I think."

'well," replied the medico, "he can't go on
like this. He must be got ashore, somehow, if he
don't show signs of recover 7 . You should have
been here twenty minutes since. Sick ! I never
saw more furious and dreadful retching," lowering
his voice : " the veins on his head stood out like
that," said he, holding up his finger, "and I
expected every minute to see the blood come up
out of him like a fountain."

He seemed all right this morning in the river,"
said I.

The water was smooth — but this is cruel— it is

VOL. II. k

killing me!" groaned the sufferer, to my surprise ;
for by the looks of him I should have thought that
if he was not past hearing he was certainly past
speaking.

"Don't you think your nausea will subside?"
said I. " Most people are ill at the first start, you
know, but they recover when they feel the long deep
sea-heave of blue water under them."

He made no answer to this, for a reason that
was only too fully explained by a sudden explosion
that I thought would have torn him in halves. I
dropped on one knee and supported him, whilst the
doctor assisted him in other ways ; his throes and
convulsions were truly formidable ; indeed I had
never seen anything of the kind to approach his, and
when I let him sink back I thought he had fainted ;
he scarcely seemed to breathe, and his face presented
a most ghastly appearance from the puffy
discoloration under the eyes caused by his violent
straining.

"I can't let this go on," said the doctor: "he
must be set ashore somehow or other. I'll not be
responsible for his life if we carry him much
farther."

"Well, sir," said I, " suppose you go and speak
to the captain, and ask him to come and look for
himself. I'll keep watch here."

He assented, and left the cabin.

Do you feel a little easier ? " I asked the poor

moaning creature, fancying that the last burst-up
might have relieved him.

He replied in the faintest imaginable voice,
No, I am very ill — I am dying — the captain
must land me."

"But," said I, "you told me you had done some
yachting in your time. Won't you give yourself a
chance ? This is bound to pass if you'll hold on."

"I've done very little yachting — always in
smooth water — never really liked it," he gasped
out: "this is killing— I shall never recover — the
captain must land me."

The doctor and he knew more about it, of
course, than I did, for at that time I never reckoned
sea-sickness a dangerous thing ; perhaps because,
never suffering from it, I had no sympathy with
people affected by it. But since then I have
heard of people dying of it, and only the other
day read of a steamer that called at a port some
miles out of her course to land a woman who
was so ill from the effects of nausea, that she
expired as she was being conveyed ashore. Yet,
though I could not guess that there was any
uncommon danger in \Torecoinbe's sickness, it was
easy to see that the man was suffering horribly,
and that if there was no chance of his recovering
shortly, he must be got out of the ship ; for even
the length of the Channel from the Downs to the
Sallies would be leagues too much of a voyage

for a stomach that promised to kill its owner by
rupturing a bloodless or two if its agony was
not ended ; I say I could see that ; and small
as would be the notice I should have taken on my
own account of the staggering rolling deck, yet
the sight of Morecombe made me clearly understand
what the rude and giddy motion must seem
to him, with its accompaniments of creaking and
straining timbers, the washing and thundering of
water alongside and the deep hollow gurgle of the
seas as they swelled up over the scuttle and veiled
the immensely thick glass of it with the glimmering
green darkness of their folds.

Presently the doctor returned with my friend
Daniel, who stood awhile trying to catch sight of
Morecombe, who lay in the dusk of the bunk, and
then making out how fearfully ill he looked, he
said with a deal of pity and good feeling in his
voice, " I am sorry to find you so bad, sir. If you
feel unable to continue the voyage, there need be
no difficulty in setting you ashore — perhaps not
yet a bit," said he, with a cock of his eye at the
scuttle, " for there'll be top much wind and sea to
enable us to do anything in that way this side of
tomorrow, I fear ; but if you can manage to hold
on until we fetch the Isle of Wight, the pilot '11 be
leaving us there, and you can go with him."

I'm frightfully bad," answered Morecombe, in
so faint and choking a voice that the skipper had

to put his ear to his mouth to hear him above the
grinding and complaining noises in the cabin.
Here the doctor spoke to Thompson, talking in a
low tone that Morecombe might not hear him, so
that I did not catch what was said ; but there was
great gravity in the medico's face, and by the
glances Thompson directed at the sufferer, I could
judge he was a good deal concerned by what he
was hearing. Well, you know, sea-sickness is a
thing for which no cure has been discovered yet ;
the doctor could do nothing, and it was plain that
the only remedy for ITorecombe was to put him on
solid ground ; and looking at him and thinking of
Florence, I began to consider that nothing better
could happen for us all than that he should leave
the ship. Whether something to that effect was
in Daniel's mind I can't say ; but I fancied there
was a kind of wink in the droop of the eye he
turned on me as he slewed round on his heel to
leave the cabin, saying to the doctor as he went
that he was afraid there was no chance of landing
Mr. Morecombe before next day, but he'd speak to
the pilot to see what could be done. It went
against my grain to leave the poor chap alone, so
I told the doctor I would stop with him until
dinner-time ; and this I did, putting a wet towel
to his forehead to keep the swooning feeling down,
and supporting him when the deadly fit of retching
seized him : but the job was one, let me tell

you, I bad not much relish for, as some of the
attacks were so bad that I was thoroughly
frightened by them, and expected when I let his
head sink on the pillow to find him lifeless.

How on earth he could have come to sea with
such a stomach as his I could not imagine. He
must have travelled in his time, been upon the
water if only for a short run, such as from Dover
to Calais, or Holyhead to Kingstown ; and would
therefore know what sort of seafaring qualities he
possessed. He was too ill to answer questions, was
unable to speak indeed, and so I could only go on
ministering to him and puzzling my head. And
what a thing was this to come about ! Here
were we rivals for the same girl, capable on dry
land of shooting at each other for her — following
her to the other side of the globe : here were we,
I say, in one cabin, one of us in the most horrible
condition of sea-sickness, and the other nursing
him ! Just dwell upon this if you're fond of the
unexpected.

CHAPTER VIII.

DOWN CHANNEL.

Meanwhile, as I kept watch by Mr. Morecornbe's
side, doing what I could to soothe his sufferings, I
heard the sound of running rigging thrown down on
deck, the voices of sailors singing out at the ropes,
and the muffled napping of canvas. More reefs were
being taken in, and the increasing violence of the
wind was to be felt in the weight of the seas that
lifted the vessel. We were booked for a regular
Channel dusting : a black night was drawing up,
and I pretty well knew that there would be too
much anxiety felt on deck by pilot, skipper, and
mates to allow room for thoughts of Mr. More-combe.
The first dinner-bell rang at half-past
five ; it was then quite dark, the cuddy lamps
alight, the glass of the scuttle in my cabin like
ebony, and the wind roaring in thunder outside.
I stepped out and found the doctor talking to
Captain Jackson in the cuddy.

Well, Mr. Egerton," said he (I suppose he had

read this name on my box, "how's your sick
friend?"

Much too bad to be left alone, that's my
opinion," said I. " Go and look at him, doctor,
will you ? And if you think proper, get one of the
stewards to tend him, for he'll expire if he's not
lifted in one of his fits." And there being ten
minutes to spare before the second bell announced
that dinner was served, I trotted up the companion-ladder
to have a look around.

The wind seemed to be coming with the hardness
of a gale as I put my head into it clear of the
companion. The evening had come down in a
shadow as black as a storm, and the darkness was
made the thicker for the clouds of spray which
were swept off the breaking crests of the sea and
whirled like wreaths of mist through the rigging.
The ship was under double-reefed topsails and
reefed foresail. The wind was abeam, and under
this small canvas the ship was pressing forwards,
rolling most uneasily over the ugly, quick, short
surges. There was not a star to be seen, not a
ship's lantern nor shore-light. The water was as
black as ink among the froth ; there was never a
gleam in it that I could see. A bright look-out
would be needed on such a night as this in these
narrow waters ; and in the haze of light that came
up through the glass of the foremost skylight, I
could see the figures of the pilot and the mate

walking athv. to and fro, pausing to windward

to take a squint at the sea on that side, and
then to leeward for a look at the ponderous shadow
on the war:: I twist the main and the
fore shrouds. F I :he ship was in dark:

for the side lights were invisible aft, and no ah

but from them; you could just make
out the bands of topsails glimmering like the
pinions of monstrous birds swayed over

; but nothi::, as to be Been, -

the screaming and wailing that same down
out of the hidden rigging was a kind of wonder,
w and again a rush of damn swept op ina
burst of wind, but the showers dried as fast as
they fell, and the deck of the poop i : retch

of grey from the break of it ;-heel, wL

yellow haze overhung the binnacle, and gave an
outline to the figure that was grinding at the
spokes behind it.

Well, we were holding our course and swarming
down Channel at about five knots, as I might
guess by fixing nrj :i any leaping surfa-

white to leeward and watching ii slide away on
the quarter. There was - .on in this,

and so long as the wind enabled us to keep our
jibboom pointed towards the Atlantic — why., it
might blow half a gale for all I cared : bo I went
below, and in a minute or two the second dinner-bell
r >f the cuddy passengers who

were not sea-sick came out of their cabins and
seated themselves. Amongst them was Florence,
and she was alone. I went round the table to her,
and she pretended not to see me coming ; but I
knew better. There must be some kind of reflection
of me in her shining beautiful e3*es, or
what did the little smile mean ?

You will remember that I described the tables as
forming this shape, T, the top cross running
athwart. "Well, in the centre of this hardship
table was the captain's place, and when he looked
forward he commanded the length of the fore and
aft table. There were two seats on either hand of
him. He was waiting for the passengers to take
their places, when I went up to Florence and
asked her which was her seat.

"Here," answered Daniel for her, giving me a
knowing grin ; " Miss Hawke sits next to me — her
aunt on my right. I like to divide the ladies,
you had better secure that corner, Mr. — Edgboro',
is it ? " said he, pointing to the seat on Florence's
left ; and these being the skipper's orders, you see,
I sat down, Florence being 'twixt Daniel and me.
There were five besides ourselves. Everybody was
sick, it seemed, but Captain Jackson and his wife,
Mrs. O'Brien, Mr. Thompson Tucker, and Mr.
Joyce. The cuddy fare was very good in those
days — excellent soup, poultry, joints, decent wines,
dried fruits, and such things ; and dinner was not

only a long business, but it gave one plenty to do.
I see the picture at this moment of that dinner-table
on this first black Channel night I am telling
you about ; the white table-cloth all gleam with
glass and plate, the burnished swinging trays tossing
convulsively in the bright light of the large
pendulous lamps, ripples of radiance running about
the polished bulkheads as the heaving of the ship
brought the rays to bear on different points, the
passengers eating with very little avidity, pausing
often whilst in the act of lifting a spoon or fork to
their mouths when the ship gave an extra heavy
lurch, and frequently directing their eyes at the
skylight, the panes of which resembled squares of
ebony against the blackness, and reflecting the
shining tabic under them like looking-glasses.
Thompson, with his jolly red face, sat eating and
enjoying his dinner, and answering questions about
the weather and such things, and the stewards trotted
with solicitude past the people. But these matters
received but little attention from me. My darling was
close alongside ; I had her all to myself, and I talked
to her and nobody else, though I took great pains
so to manage my face that the passengers should
not guess too much of what was passing in me.

Aunt Damaris, she said, was not actually ill but
felt queer, and was in bed and not likely to get up
for a day or two, as it took her about that time to
conquer her nausea.

"Have you heard," said I, "how fearfully ill
Mr. Morecombe is ? "

Xo, I have not heard about him, nor am I
interested," she replied, with a curl of her red
underlip.

When, however, I told her how dangerously sick
he was, and what the doctor had said about him,
and how there was a risk of his rupturing a blood-vessel
and dying in one of his attacks, she looked
up at me in amazement. "What will he do?"
she asked. " Will he continue the voyage ? "

I think not," I answered. " He has begged to
be put ashore ; but that was not to be done in the
face of such weather as this and with a black night
drawing up. If he lives until we fetch the Isle of
Wight, he will probably land with the pilot."

She fancied I was joking by saying "If he lives,"
but Thompson overhearing us, assured her that I
was speaking the truth, and to confirm my words
called out to the doctor, who was at the bottom
of the table, " What's the latest report of Mr.
Morecombe ? "

"He's as bad as bad can be, captain. I looked
in before dinner, and don't think he could be worse.
You'll have to put him ashore, sir. If he's carried
out to sea it'll be odds if he don't answer for it with
his life."

Here the passengers took the subject up, and all
sorts of questions and exclamations were let fly.

You see bow it is," I said to Florence ; " were he
not so cruelly ill I should say he was being well paid
out for following you. But his pursuit is not a
long one. He is sure to go ashore with the pilot''

She was very grave and thoughtful, and said,
"What an unexpected termination! What will
Aunt Damans say? "

'•I hope you'll let her find out for herself that
he's gone," said I.

"I certainly shall," she exclaimed. "His coming
was no business of mine, and neither is his
going. It is perfectly indifferent to me whether
he stays or leaves."

Well, we had much to say about the man and
his dreadful sea-sickness, and the subject furnished
me with more than one opportunity for quietly
dropping a hand-lead into her heart, and finding
what depth of water there was for me there, and
what sort of ground the " arming " showed. And
I was so greatly encouraged by my discoveries that.
growing more courageous as the dinner progressed
and my spirits mounting to the music of her voice's
gentleness, ay, and tenderness, boys — a melody
distinguishable above the muffled roaring without
and the straining and creaking within — I asked her
to tell me if she would like me to go away from the
ship with sea-sick Mr. Morecombe. She peeped at
me under her eyelashes, and said, " If you thought
I would like you to go, you would not stop ? "

You'd have a good right to distrust my love if
I refused to do anything you desired," said I.

Well," said she, " since you are here I don't
want you to go."

I found her hand under the table and took it.
She let me hold it a moment, with a trifle of pink
in her cheeks, and then drew it away in a manner
to signify, " I don't object ; but you must not
make love to me too fast." But this small stroke
of eloquence was of no use. The feel of her soft
little hand, crisp with the ring or two she wore,
was too much for me ; I was but a young man, I
loved her so truly that never was a girl more loved
by her sweetheart ; and so whilst Captain Jackson
talked at the top of his voice with the chief mate,
who had come below to dinner, and Mrs. O'Brien
was flattering about the pedigree of the O'brien
and the 0' Shandrydans to Mrs. Joyce, and Daniel
and Mr. Thompson Tucker and Mrs. Jackson and
the doctor rattled away in brisk conversation, I
poured into Florence's ears the hundred feelings
and hopes which the touch of her hand had cast
adrift from my heart ; I told her of the misery
caused me by her removal to Scotland, the fears
which haunted me that her father would carry
her away somewhere out of my reach, the despair
that had possessed me when I heard that she was
going to Australia, and that had determined meas
my only chance to sail in the same ship with

her and to risk her anger for daring to love her
too well to suffer the ocean to separate her from
me. If she thought me presumptuous for talking
in this fashion she did not say so nor look so ;
indeed, my lads, the idea she gave me hy her
manner of listening was that she would rather
have had me talkative than shy. Now and again
she would take a side-long peep at me, and when
I told her how utterly I had been crushed by
her letter to Sophie in which she said that she
was going to Australia, until the idea of joining her
in the voyage pieced my heart together again, she
said, " I knew that would grieve you terribly,"
letting the words slip out and then averting her
face with a little blush as their significance struck
her. But, you see, this was not the first time we
had met — not the first time she had discovered I
loved her ; there was the memory of many words,
of many thoughts between us, and her locket was
on my heart, and she was being sent away partly
because of my love for her, and I was proving my
love by being with her and following her unto the
very ends of the world ; could our eyes meet
without a world of meaning springing from the
encounter of our glances ? If her love for me was
not yet full-grown, it was born — it had an existence,
it was coming forward. And though a few
hours before, when I lay hiding away from her, I
could not have dared to believe that she had any

other feeling for me than a simple kindness, I had
not sat half an hour by her side at that dinner-table
without feeling as sure as that her eyes were
beautiful, her smile the most winning in life, her
voice a melody sweetly played in tune, that many
more days would not pass without her finding the
young sailor by her side sovereign of her heart, as
she was already the delight and glory of his life.

These thoughts ran through my talk with her
like the central line of hemp over which the strands
of a rope are laid, and made me so joyous that I
would sometimes fancy she peeped at me for the
pride which the happiness in my face gave her as
the cause of it. When we quitted poor Morecombe
as a topic we were not in a hurry to return to him.
Indeed it was plain to me that her former indifference
to the man had developed into real disgust
through his chasing her on to the water where
she could not escape his attentions ; and any
reference to him humiliated her, as you might suppose
of a high-spirited girl who would be ashamed
that I or anybody else should know that her father
and aunt had lent themselves to a cheap poor
conspiracy to entangle her with a creature mean
enough to play the unmanly part allotted to him.

Thompson and the chief mate left the table to
go on deck, and presently the pilot made his
appearance in a shaggy coat glittering with
moisture and a red nose at the end of which

sparkled a large drop of salt water hanging there
like a jewel. Captain Jackson tackled him on the
subject of the weather. Mr. Thompson Tucker and
Mr. Joyce withdrew to their cabins, but Mrs.
O'Brien and Mrs. Jackson kept their seats and so
did Florence, who seemed perfectly happy at my
side and in no hurry to see if she could be of any
use to her aunt. I congratulated her upon her
fine sailorly qualities, which were not a little
remarkable, let me tell you, in her as well as in the
other ladies who had mustered at the dinner table ;
for the Stratford was pitching and lurching in the
abominable fashion that is only possible to a big
ship in Channel seas where the confined surges
rim fast with a short savage play as unlike to
the rhythmical long-drawn heave of ocean billows
with the wide gleaming valley between, into which
a vessel swings with a cradle-like floating plunge, as
the motions of an unballasted kite are to the stately
sweeping of a balloon upon the waves of the wind.

"Have you decided yet upon returning to your
real name ? " she asked.

"I will do whatever you wish," I answered;
"but will it be wise to let your aunt know who
I am?"

"What could she do if she should know?"
she asked, with a gleam of mutiny in her eyes.

She may make a fuss," said I, " and surely
there has been too much fuss already."

VOL. II.

"If I may not call you Seymour I cannot call
you Mr. Egerton," she exclaimed.

You can speak of me to her as Mr. Egerton,"
I replied, " and think of me as Jack, can't you,
darling ? "

"Oh, don't call me darling," she said, "it is
not right. I don't mind Florence now and then,
but darling is — is almost wicked."

"If it is not wicked to think of you as darling,
it cannot be wicked to call you so," said I.

"Do you prefer," said she, not looking so very
shocked after all, "to keep the name you have
taken ? "

Yes, I do ; it would set the passengers talking
if they found I had shipped under an assumed
name. And what need is there that your aunt
should know who I am till after a bit ? "

"Well, presently she consented, manifestly against
her w T ill; but she would see the force of my objection
respecting the passengers, and then again she
was too angry with her aunt for the snare she
had laid for her to mind what she would think
if my identity came to be revealed, whilst on the
other hand any uncomfortable opinions the other
passengers could form of me were sure to embarrass
her, foreseeing as she must have done that my love
for her would soon be noticed by them. This
little matter being settled to my satisfaction, we
got talking about my relations at Bristol, and

then she told me bow unhappy she had been
made by her papa's wish that she should marry
Mr. Moreconibe, and hinted at some painful
quarrels that had occurred at Ducked, which she
said had made her glad to accept her aunt's
offer to return with her to Sydney.

Both Aunt Damaris and papa said my health
would be improved by a sea voyage, and that
was the ostensible motive for the journey," said
she ; " and I pretended to believe that that was the
only reason, though," added she, with a lovely
tinge of red in her cheeks and looking down as she
spoke, " I never doubted that you were the cause.
But to think," she exclaimed, warming up and
fixing her eyes on me, " that the voyage was
planned wholly and simply to bring Mr. More-combe
and me together ! Oh, I cannot bear to
think of it, indeed I cannot ! How could papa be
induced to take such a step ? "

"Don't let that thought trouble you, my
darling," I exclaimed, overjoyed by her candour,
and groping for her hand which she let me
retain : "if you only loved me one little bit as
much as I adore you, Florence, you would not
find anything to be angry with in a scheme that
has ended in making me the very happiest man
in the whole wide world."

Well, I dare say you're wondering how the
dickens we could be talking in this fashion without

the people who were sitting at the midship
table hearing us. But there was not an ear in
that cuddy that could have caught a syllable of
our speech unless it had been brought as close tous
as we were together, so full of noise was the
hollow interior with the roaring of the wind, the
straining of bulkheads and creaking of timbers,
the half-stifled thunder of seas striking the ship
and falling forwards in storms of spray which
sounded like a discharge of musketry heard at a
distance, and with the gabble which the pilot and
Jackson kept up.

Presently Mrs. O'Brien and Mrs. Jackson withdrew,
and Florence went to her cabin. I asked
the pilot if we were lying our course.

Why, yes," says he. " Lying' our course ? to
be sure we are! how else should we be lying?"
and he looked at me under his thatched brows
with a pair of eyes which might have passed for
glowworms in a thrush's nest, as if he would say,
"Don't try to come it over me with any nautical
terms. I'm not to be gammoned."

"Well, Mr. Pilot," said I, "you see if we were
heading south, you know, we shouldn't be lying
our course, should we ? for I recollect learning at
school that the Atlantic bears west by magnetic
compass from the English Channel, and we must
get into the Bay of Biscay before we can double
the Cape of Good Hope."

What's all that got to do with it ? " asked the
pilot, who was one of those surly sea-dogs I
delighted in worrying. "You asked if we was
lying' our course, and I said yes. How else should
we be lying', with the wind three points free and
nothing' to stop us as I knows on '? "

"You're wrong, sir," exclaimed Captain Jackson,
"in talking about doubling the Cape of Good
Hope. You don't double it in going to Australia.
Doubling means coming down one side of a headland,
rounding it, and sailing up the other side."

Thank you, sir, for your information : it is
very interesting," said I. "Nautical terms are
exceedingly difficult to understand. Mr. Pilot, will
you tell me what a scuttle-butt is ? "

"A thing they drowns rats in, ain't it, sir?"
answered the pilot, hoarsely, looking with a grin at
Captain Jackson.

And what part of a ship is the main jibboom
in ? " I inquired.

"Well," says the pilot, "in my young day it
used to be bolted to the first Brake under the
wales, but custom's waned since then, and I'll
allow if ye seek it ye'll find it mostly atop of the
long-boat."

There is no main jibboom, sir," exclaimed
Captain Jackson, taking pity on my ignorance.
"But I'll tell you what there is; there are ships
which are allowed to leave port a sight too deep in

the water, sir, and we're on board one of them at
this moment. D'ye feel her straining, pilot ? It's
enough to tear out her bottom."

"Well," said the pilot, " I didn't stow the vessel.
and whether she's deep or light's nothing' to do
with me. My business is to give her a clear
'ripon, and that I'm doing, though this young
gentleman here doesn't seem to believe as that
we're lying our course."

"Oh yes, I do," I replied, "now that you tell
me we are. How dreadfully high the wind is !
Do you think if I go on deck there is any danger
of my being blown into the water ? "

"Ay, weary great danger," he replied; "if I
was you I'd go to bed."

I'm not sleepy yet, but when I do go to bed,
Mr. Pilot," said I, "I hope if you should steer us
on to the rocks or anything like that, you will
instantly call me, so that I may have a chance of
saving my life."

He mumbled a blessing on my eyes as I left the
table and entered my cabin to procure a pipe of
tobacco. A small bracket lamp swinging against
a stanchion shed a faint uncomfortable light upon
the little interior, in which I spied Mr. Griffith
holding Morecombe's wrist in his hand. The
unhappy sufferer had been undressed and got
properly to bed. There was a smell of physic
about ; a sort of chloroform flavour mixed with

brandy which made the atmosphere anything but
pleasant." The clothes suspended on pegs against
the bulkhead swung wildly, the heeling of the
ship brought the sea alongside close, and rendered
the wash and thunder of it a very distinct near
sound; and the cabin deck was a surface that
seemed to slant in half a dozen different directions
all at once. I asked Mr. Griffith how his patient
did, and he replied, 'bad enough. His prostration
is very great. Feel his hand'' I took it,
and found it as cold as a piece of iron and slimy
with moisture like the dew on a dying body. I
could not see his face, for it was in deep shadow,
and partly turned towards the ship's side ; if he
was awake he did not speak ; no sound came from
him, and I was glad that the constant moaning he
had kept up when I sat with him had ceased. I
was so concerned for him that it was a positive
comfort to feel that we were making good headway
and would, if the wind held, be off the Isle of
Wight in the morning. However, I could be of
no use, so I took my pipe and stepped out on to
the quarter-deck for a smoke, sheltering myself by
standing under the break of the poop to windward
against the chief mate's cabin.

There was plenty of wind on that black night,
and the whistling of it in the rigging was as shrill
as though congregations of wild fowl were being
swept along and screaming as they drove : but it

seemed to me there was less weight in the pouring
blast than there had been an hour or two before,
though another little creep of it to the eastward
had put a true wintry touch into the rawness of its
cold. Small wonder that the decks were deserted.
The gleam of water came out of the darkness in
the lee scuppers and every roll to windward
brought the inky fluid up the weather deck like
the run of a tide on a shore, creeping up and
down with a regular pendulum swing. It was a
wild feeling you got when you looked at the mainmast
standing plain for a height of fifteen feet or
so in the cuddy light, with lines of gear coming
down, and belayed to the circle of pins that girdled
it, and then found the vast spar vanishing at that
elevation in the howling blackness as though it
had been sawn off. The dim space of topsail
glimmering on high scarcely seemed to belong to
the ship. The water washed past with a whiteness
in the foam of it like the sparkling surface of
frosted silver, and when the ship rolled over to
leeward on the send of a sea, with a kind of lull
up aloft where the wind found less to split upon in
the slanting fabric, the froth looked to roll up to
the horizon and the sea standing above the topgallant
bulwark was like the slope of a hill buried
in snow. Once when the ship came over to starboard
on the side of a surge that left her spars
erect, I caught sight of a kind of phantom thing,

a vague pallid shadow a short distance off, and
coming and going in the darkness just before the
main rigging. I got on to the lee poop ladder to
look, and made the object out to be a three-masted
schooner that we had overhauled and were slowly
dropping astern. Upon my word she was the one
thing, I somehow felt, that was wanted to complete
the mystery of the dark scene ; for she gave you
something for your eyes to rest on, though all the
while she was as vague and illusive as a spectre,
with her port light like a bloodshot eye fitfully
showing over the surface of white under her bow,
then vanishing as a black coil of water rose up
between her and us, whilst the reefed canvas faded
if you watched it steadily as though it had dissolved
into the whirling ebony that was shrieking
over her, and you had to look a little away from
her to catch a fresh sight of the faint wan surfaces.
Well, having smoked my pipe, I went into the
cuddy, where I found the chief mate, a man named
Thornton, a square-faced burnt-up fellow, with
a glittering blue eye that tumbled about like a
monkey's. I suppose he had found out by the
look of us at dinner that the skipper and I were
old chums, and he asked me to accept his apology
for his manner last night, "for," says he, "I had
not seen you before, Mr. Egerton, and I couldn't
smite make out your object in standing at the skylight
and looking down into the cuddy for ten

minutes at a time with scarce a move," and then

there rolled over his face a grin which gave me to
know that he for one had smelt out something of
my business in that ship. However, for my part
he was welcome to find out all he could ; I minded
nobody but Aunt Damans, and to tell you the
truth I was beginning to think that even if she
were to discover that I was Jack Seymour, nothing-very
serious could result in the face of the lovely
malicious gleam that had shot into my sweet one's
eyes when she had said at the dinner table. " what
can she do if she should know ? "

CHAPTER IX.

I BREAKFAST WITH FLORENCE.

It was a queer ordering of fate, as any man will
allow, that I should have had to nurse Morecomhe
in the English Channel, when in Bristol nothing
could have pleased me more than the privilege of
twisting his neck. It was strange enough that he
and I should have come together in one cabin ; hut
think of my ministering to this seasick rival,
hoisting up his head when a tremendous fit of
nausea convulsed him, putting brandy to his lips,
chafing his hands, and doing my dead hest to
hearten up the unfortunate creature by begging
him to remember that in a few hours he would
be out of the ship, ashore and himself again ! I
did not undress myself that night. The temperature
was desperately cold, and I foresaw that
it would be no joke to tumble out of my bunk
unclothed in response to the gurgling and choking
and struggling which from time to time went on
in the bed under me. You would suppose that

what Morecontbe had gone through would have
been enough to kill a horse : but some men take
a deal of destroying. Bad he was as bad can be ;
the doctor had said it ; but never will I believe
that he could not have got over his sickness had he
stuck to the ship and given himself time. In spite
of his terrible prostration— and terrible it was — he
could find a voice, now and again, faint indeed, but
still a voice, to curse the sea in those fashionable
oaths in the nice conduct of which he was a perfect
master — and I'll do him the justice to say he never
showed himself the least obliged to me for the
trouble I took to attend him, but on the contrary
accepted my services as if I was a steward, and in
that ship simply to give him brandy when he asked
for it and to put my arm under his head when he
yawed at the coverlet. It was wonderful to me
that the chap didn't get drunk : for he had nothing
in his stomach but brandy, of which he drank very
plentifully, I can tell you : quite enough to have
shifted my ballast. But perhaps he was used to
strong drinks, or, what was more likely, his condition
enabled him to stand up under a press of
sail that would have capsized him under ordinary
circumstances.

It was not my policy, however, to encourage
him to continue the voyage, as you may suppose.
Indeed I lost no opportunity to heighten his fears
by telling him that the doctor had said he could

not possibly live to reach the mouth of the
Channel unless a change for the better in his
nausea was immediately visible, and that the only
chance he had to preserve his life was to go
ashore with the pilot. I also assured him that
this Channel was little more than a pond compared
to what we must stand by to expect in the Bay of
Biscay; i: where," said I, "the waves roll mountains
high, and even old sailors are prostrated by
the dreadful motion."

Yas," he murmured, in the faintest, most
sea-sick tones you could imagine, " I have heard
of the Bay of Biscay. It is not likely I shall twy
it. Curse and confound, etc., etc., this beastly
willing. I thought it would have knocked you up.
You were ill this morning."

"It's the smooth water that affects me, strangely
enough," said I. " The moment the ship begins
to heave, I recover."

Doocid odd," he gurgled. " Never heard of
anything more extraordinary. When will this
beastly ship stop ? What time to-mowow will the
pilot leave ? Why the douce must I go on suffering
all through to-night ? Can't the captain find
a harbour somewhere to drop anchor in ? " And
then he cried out for more brandy, and asked me
to wipe his face, whilst the bedclothes heaved upon
his chest in horrid sympathy with the rolling and
pitching of the vessel.

But it was very seldom that he spoke at length
as above. Sometimes he would lie for an hour
perfectly mute and motionless, as I would know
by peeping at him over the edge of my bunk, and
then an attack would seize him and he would
groan and moan and sing out for me with a sort
of selfish terrified shriek in his voice which never
failed to plump me alongside of him in a breath.
I got very little sleep that night, though he gave
me some peace in the small hours. I turned out
at seven in the morning, having slept since four,
and had a look at my friend who lay with his eyes
closed. There was sunshine on the water and the
scuttle was brilliant with the flash and tremor of
it, and light fell in a stream from the bull's-eye in
the deck, so I could see him very distinctly. I
was perfectly staggered by his appearance. His
face was hollow and dark, and the lids of his
closed eyes had a greenish waxy look as they
seemed to float rather than to lie in the livid cups
under his brows. I put my head into his bunk to
listen, for when I saw him I could no more have
told you whether he was dead or alive without hearing
him breathe or seeing him move, than I could
have cured his nausea. Well, he was breathing all
right, and a good deal relieved by this, and thankful
to heaven for the sunshine that's promise of a
fine morning outside, I freshened myself up with a
wash, making no noise, and went on deck.

The foul night had blown itself out ; a bright
blue sky was overhead with a dash of woolly cloud
here and there sailing down it, and the sea was
a light luminous green that darkened away up at
the horizon and stood like a streak of olive-coloured
paint against the silver azure beyond.
The ship was under all plain sail, braced sharp upon
the starboard tack, but making good way under
the brisk morning breeze that seemed to come
with a flavour of land in it. There was just
enough sea to keep the noble ship curtseying as
she drove along full of the sparkling of breastwork
and glass and the wet glitter of the decks newly
washed down, and her sails of a star-like whiteness
in the glorious morning sunshine. Smoke was
blowing away from the galley chimney, cocks were
crowing in the hencoops, there was a coming and
going of 'tween-deck passengers, and a sound of
the crying of children rising up from below through
the booby hatch. I got on to the poop, drinking
in the pouring of the fresh north wind as a man
will who comes on deck on a fine morning after
eight or nine hours of a small cabin, and heartily
thankful, for the sake of Morecombe, that the
weather was bright.

I said good morning to the pilot, who was standing
with one hand on the weather main backstay,
and he responded with a surly nod, singing out tome
as I passed on to join Thompson, " Better not

look at the compass, sir, or ye'll be swearing we're
not lying our course." But in spite of his request
the first thing I did after shaking hands with
Thompson was to take a peep into the binnacle,
and found that we were heading a course that was
to bring us in sight of the Isle of Wight and make
visible there the signal we should be hoisting fora
boat. Daniel at once inquired after Morecombe,
and I gave him a short account of the night I had
passed with that gentleman.

Upon my word," said he, drawing me out of
the hearing of the helmsman and obliging me to
walk the deck with him, " this adventure of yours
should make a yarn to please the girls. What
goodness ! what humanity ! Instead of smothering
your rival, there you have been sitting up all night
with him, your arm round his neck, swabbing his
face, and pouring brandy into him. Will he go
ashore with the pilot, do you think ? "

"I hope so," I answered. "He looks deadly
ill ; I've done my best to scare him, but he may
change his mind if he sees the sunshine."

"You mustn't let him do that," said he, with
his face like the rising moon in a November fog ;
you don't want him to stop, of course ? "

Not I ; I'd be glad to heave him overboard, if
I thought he could swim ashore."

Then," said he, " take care to tell Griffith that
the fellow was several times in the act of dying

last night, and that you only recovered him hy a
miracle. The doctor will believe you. He won't
want to have a sick man after Mr. Morecombe's
pattern on his hands, and it shouldn't need much
of a hint to make him order the youth ashore
with the pilot, on the ground that his case is
beyond him whilst he keeps afloat."

I don't think any strategy will be needed," I
replied ; " Mr. Morecombe is not likely to proceed.
Why, in less than twenty-four hours he has been
reduced to the sickliest object that you ever saw
in your life."

Serve him right," said Thompson. " What
business has a man to thrust himself upon a girl
who doesn't want him ? I noticed your young lady
yesterday morning at breakfast, when Mr. More-combe
got alongside of her and fell a-squinting at
her through his ej'e-glass. Jack, she wouldn't look
at him ! What manner of creature can this j'oung
swell be to put himself in the way of being-snubbed
and spurned in a fashion to make a chap
with any kind of sensitiveness pitch himself over
the side."

He's been punished enough," said I, " and
nothing remains but to get him out of the ship.
At what hour do you hope to land the pilot ? "

Some time this forenoon, I reckon. The old
girl walks through it, eh, Jack ? Watch the
water passing — it's like looking out of a rail-vol.

II. v

way carriage window ; " and he pointed over the
rail where the little surges were pouring towards
us in emerald green lines which melted into snow
as they ran, the yeasty seething flashing up
dazzling white in the sunshine, with here and
there a scattering of smoke-like spray upon which
the fragment of a rainbow would stand an instant.
There was no land in sight, and the course we
were steering showed that we were a trifle to the
southward of the fair-way track owing to the wind
having drawn ahead for a couple of hours during
the night, and sent us watching that way. Against
the thin parish blue over the horizon, you could
catch in places a glimpse of a vessel's canvas with
a vague kind of shine in it, like what a first
quarter moon has when the sun is up ; and in
the west and south, a shadow of smoke lingered
in a serpentine posture upon the wind, indicating
the existence of steamers whose funnels had drawn
down behind the sea. As I stood leaning over the
rail, watching the greenish copper of the ship
shooting through the coiling white and emerald
with a sound like the hissing of red-hot iron, and
noticing how the radiance of the water was reflected
in the glossy bends which the crests of the
surges combed down into the brilliance of a mirror,
my friend Daniel talked to me of Florence, with
a fine sentimental twang in his voice, congratulating
me on her beauty — as if I had had a hand in

that — on her evident affection for me, on the
pleasing nature of the romantic adventure I had
embarked on. He told me that though he was
not what is vulgarly called a lady's man, he had
a tolerably comprehensive knowledge of the sex,
and flattered himself that on the whole he understood
them pretty well ; and therefore, when he
assured me that Miss Florence Hawke liked me,
I was to allow no more misgivings to trouble me
on that head, for he was not a person given to
talking without knowing what he meant.

I'm not cocksure of the law," said he, " and
we've unfortunately got no parson on board ; but
if you should bring matters to a point when we're
on the ocean, I should be perfectly willing to read
the service over you, if you don't mind taking your
chance of the matter being illegal in my hands.
I've got an idea that the skipper can join folks
together in holy wedlock, and that a splice of that
kind is not to be drawn asunder ; but I won't
swear to it, for it is a question I've never taken
the trouble to look into. Any way, you and the
lady can talk the thing over, and if you and she
are agreeable and don't mind a trifle of risk in
such a matter, why, then, all you'll have to do,
Jack, will be to put a mark in the prayer-book
where the service lies, so that I may find it
without groping, and I'm at your command."

I thanked him heartily for this fresh instance of

Lis kindness, and told him I would not fail to call
upon him in that way should Miss Hawke express
her wish to he married at sea. Soon after this we
went to breakfast, and I was a hit nervous as I
stood in the cuddy door watching the passengers
assemble at the table, for I thought the bright
sunshine and the mild curtseying of the ship
would have put Aunt Damaris on her pins again.
But there was no sign of her ; Florence came forth
alone, and immediately I walked up the cuddy,
saluted her, and took my place alongside her.
How beautiful she looked ! how clear, and pure,
and luminous her eyes, as if the spirit of the deep
had passed into them ! The morning radiance
streaming clown the skylight sprinkled a light like
gold-dust over her hair, and I saw Daniel squinting
at it out of the corners of his eyes, as if he
couldn't understand how that kind of sheen came
to lie on her head. Well, mates, I could not meet
her glance now, without feeling and understanding
that we were sweethearts at last. Hitherto it had
been on my side mostly, but I had fondled her
hand last evening, I had told her more than ever
I said before, and when I sat down in the seat next
hers, and spoke to her, and she turned her eyes to
mine, I knew as though she had spoken it that the
night had worked a mighty change in her for me,
that her heart, which had been no more than a
bud when the evening gathered, had become a

flower for the morning sun to shine on. How is ita
fellow can tell that a girl loves him when she
aloes not speak, when, not to save his soul, could
he recall a syllable from her to justify his knowledge?
This would make a good question for a
debating club; and if any community of young
Pitt and Foxes will go to work and deliver their
views on the subject, they may count on Jack
Seymour reading every word of what they say.
For my part, I am no fist at handling problems of
that kind. You know sailors can smell ice when
they can't see it, amid a blinding snowfall that is
colder than ice. That's wonderful, thinks the
landsman; but it's true. And sailors, by squinting
to leeward, will sometimes see a gale of wind
in a sky as blue as an Irish girl's eyes, and barely
have time to reef down before it is upon them.
That is wonderful too, thinks the landsman. But
Lord preserve us, what are such wonders to your
discovery of a girl's love of you by the feel of your
instincts ? I was in the thick of the miracle the
moment Florence and I came together that morning,
and the beating of her heart upon mine was
as plain to my adoration of her as if the darling-were
in my arms and her lips at my ears, telling
me all about it.

However, even if we had been alone, her love
was too much of a bairn to quit the warmth of her
eyes, and there only was it to be sought at present.

But we were by no means alone ; for though Aunt
Damans was missing and Morecoinbe was on his
hack, other passengers, who had been sick yesterday,
came out and took their places this morning
Mir. and Mrs. Marmaduke Mortimer, the newly-married
couple, who sat so close together that the
meal was a perfect jostle between them : and Mr.
Thompson Tucker, a thin, rather blear-eyed young-man,
who was going to seek his fortune in Australia;
and Mrs. Grant and her daughter; and the
Joyce family, six in all, counting the nurse ; not
to mention Mrs. O'Brien, and Captain Jackson,
Ex., the doctor, and Jack Seymour and his sweetheart,
and jolly-faced Daniel and the chief mate.
The only other lady (excepting Aunt Damans)
wanting was Mrs. Jackson, about whom her gallant
husband shouted out to Daniel as follows : " Thank
you, captain, she is not ill, but she is uncomfortable.
A better sailor never wore petticoats, as you
might have noticed yesterday. But, sir, there is a
sluggishness, a heaviness, a topsy-turfy nausea
in the movements of an overloaded ship,
which are enough to capsize the stomach of a
female figure-head, sir, and Mrs. Jackson has
temporarily succumbed, not to the motion of the
billows, but to the rapacity of owners ; " and he
glared around him with a quarter-deck scowl, as
much as to say " I'm in a quarrelsome mood —
better not contradict me, anybody."

Of course, my first question to Florence was
after her aunt. She was better, my darling
answered; "she is breakfasting in her cabin, but
she talked of coming on deck to-day if the weather
remains fine."

I hope she won't make her appearance*' said
I, "until Morecombe is gone. She may dissuade
him."

How is he? " she asked, smiling as if it would
need very little to cause her to break into a hearty
laugh. I told her that he was no better, if he was
not worse, described his haggard appearance, the
wonderful change that had come over him since
we had left the river, and said there could be no
question that he would go ashore with the pilot.
As I spoke, Mrs. O'Brien called out to the doctor'
to know how the poor " say-sick gentleman was,
him that manes to go ashore, Mr. Griffith." The
doctor answered, " I have just seen him. He is
very low, ma'am. Captain, he says he could not
bear the sight of food, and the mere smell of the
breakfast violently affects him. It's a bad sign."

"why, sir ? " demanded Captain Jackson.

Because, sir," responded the doctor, " it means
that the nausea is still strong in him, for the only
symptom of recovery that I know of in sea-sickness
is the return of the appetite. Nothing but brandy
has passed the gentleman's lips since this hour
yesterday, and how is he to support life, sir, without

food, and to contend with the exhaustion that
follows his sufferings ? "

I merely asked for information, sir," said
Captain Jackson. " I am satisfied. His sufferings
would be less if we had more freeboard. Another
inch more of depth would have killed him, as
another foot more of side would have made a
sailor of him, at once. Stew-ard, more tea
hee-ar ! "

"He must be sent ashore, doctor," said Thompson,
taking no notice of the navy man's talk. " I
presume that is his wish ? "

I can answer for that," said I, addressing the
passengers generally, " as his berth-mate."

There is no alternative," exclaimed the doctor.
•* He is utterly unfit for the sea ; and it would be
sheer madness on his part to pursue the voyage, as
it would be sheer cruelty on my part to recommend
him to do so."

Nothing could be more decisive, and Daniel,
giving Florence a half-look that followed on to me,
sung out to the steward to turn to after breakfast
to get Mr. Morecombe's traps packed ready forgetting
over the side.

What do you think of this, Florence darling ? "
I whispered. " Is it not immense ? "

She returned no answer, not trusting herself to
speak at the moment, as I might reckon by the
merriment of her eyes, which betokened laughter

(that would sound unseemly) dangerously near.
Meanwhile, all the passengers were calling questions
to the doctor about the danger of sea-sickness,
ITorecornbe's symptoms, why one should suffer more
than another, and the like, and the cuddy was
busy with chatter.

• ' What will your aunt say when she finds him
gone?" I continued, watching the laughter fade
out of her face like a light slowly withdrawn from
alabaster.

"I don't know, Mr. Seymour, and I don't care,"
she replied.

Do call me Jack, Florence— give me the name
yon think of me by. If you don't, you'll be calling
me Mr. Seymour as you have just done, and what
will become of me ? "

She nibbled at a piece of white roll, looking
coyly down.

Say Jack, darling ! "

Well, to please 3*011 1 will call you Jack," she
answered, saying nothing about the-darlings" I
was bestowing on her.

"It's a very easy name to pronounce," said 1.
•' Sophie and Amelia gave it me at once, on the
very first evening we had ever seen one another —
as you can remember, for you were present."

"Why do you go on entreating? " she exclaimed,
laughing. " Haven't I said I will call you Jack ? "

I fancy Daniel overheard this, for I spied him

grin, though lie was listening to Mr. Thompson
Tucker questioning Mr. Joyce as to the chances
the Colonies offered a young man who couldn't dig
and who declined to beg. In truth, Daniel sat a
good deal too near us ; but there was no help for
it, and on the whole the arrangement was to my
taste, providing Aunt Damaris kept t'other side the
shipper when she should come to the table.

"How surprised," said I, "your father will be
to hear that Mr. Morecombe has abandoned the
voyage."

Is your uncle likely to talk of your having
sailed in this ship ? " she asked.

"You know him," I answered, laughing; " he
cannot hold his tongue, I am afraid."

Then the news is sure to reach papa's ears ! "
she exclaimed, pursing up her sweet little mouth
with a scared look in her eyes.

"But he will know," said I, "that you were
ignorant of my intention to join you."

"He is not likely to believe it," she replied.
Oh, what a bad character you will have earned
for me ! But is it not proper retribution — Jack ? "
said she, bringing out my name with a little
hesitation, for the first time, and pronouncing it
with a kind of softness that thrilled me, quite
apart from the delight of hearing the sound of it
on her lips. " I never should have desired you to
take this voyage with me against papa's wishes;

but neither should I have been here had I guessed
that Mr.Moreconibe was to accompany us ; and since
no liberty of choosing a companion was allowed
me, could papa be angry at finding me glad that
things have happened as I could have wished ? "

There was a droop in her voice, for she was confessing.
And oh, the magic of her meaning, that
gave a new glory to the sunshine, a lovely rhythm
to the steady heave of the ship, that put a perfect
melody into the hoarse chorus of seamen handling
the braces on deck, that made a heaven of that
vessel's caddy, and angels of Captain Jackson, and
Mrs. O'Brien, and Daniel, and all the rest of them.
But we were at breakfast : her hands were busy
with plate and cup and knife and fork, and I could
not grasp them ; there were people near us, and I
could not seize the moment to ask her to tell me
she loved me. Indeed, as it was, I discovered that
we were being noticed, especially by the newly-married
pair ; and so I had to haul oft and put on
an abstracted face, and talk to Daniel about last
night's change of wind, as if I would not have given
all I owned in the world for ten minutes' use of a
quiet corner where there was just room for two of us.

Well, when breakfast was over, I went into my
cabin and found one of the under-stewards at work
lashing or "cording up" Mr. Morecombe's box,
and collecting his odds and ends of sticks, guns, etc.
had no mind to linger, for I had had quite enough.

of the sick man, and so was loading a pipe, meaning
to clear out in a moment, when Thompson
and the doctor came in.

Sony to find you still so bad, Mr. XEorecorabe,"
said Daniel, evidently struck by the fellow's hollow
looks: "however, you'll recover like magic the
moment you're ashore, where I shall hope to set
you in another two hours or so."

It's a cursed hardship that I couldn't be landed
sooner," replied Morecombe from his pillow, speaking
in such weakly notes that it was a job to hear
him. " There ought to be some provision made toland
people who suffer as I do, instead of dragging
them on and on till they're nearly dead. I'll kick
up a wow about this when I get home, curse me if
I don't. What wight have people to drag fellahs
about when they're dying ? "

Thompson mildly explained that it would have
been • impossible to put him ashore during the
night owing to the weather.

How much longer, then, am I to be kept
here ? " moaned the sufferer. " Do you mean to
drag me about until I'm dead ? "

"Is it your wish to be put ashore?" inquired
Thompson.

Why the douce d'ye ask me ? " answered More-combe,
staring wildly at the skipper. " You know
it's my wish. You ought to have landed me
yesterday, when the doctor told you how I was

suffering ; see if there won t be a jolly wow over
this when I get back. I'll expose the Company asa
swindle, confound me if I don't. What wight
have you to take my money and put me into a
rotten old cradle that's never stopped willing
since we left G wave send, and go on lugging me
about in it when I'm dying? I'll wite to every
paper in the country, curse me if I don't. When
do you mean to land me, eh ? "

I'll leave you to talk to this gentleman.
doctor," says Thompson, without the least temper
in his manner. " You had better get him dressed
ready to go ashore when a boat arrives ; " and.
so saying, he stepped out of the cabin, followed by
me. "I thought you said your friend was dying.
Jack ? " said he, as we mounted the companion
steps. "Why, there's life enough in his temper
alone to furnish out a ship's company. What an
ass the man is, to be sure ! I've met a few swells
in my day, but never the like of that chap."

u Well," said I, " I can assure you I had no idea
the fellow had so much jaw left in him. Had you
been with me last night you would again and again
have thought him at his last gasp, as I did. Did
you notice his face ? "

I did," he answered. " Oh, he's been bad, and
is bad : and I shall be glad to get him ashore."

He walked up to the pilot, who in a few moments
went below to breakfast, and I stood near the

wheel to have a look around me. The wind
had freshened into a magnificent sailing breeze,
and had gone away into the north-east. With
every sail pulling and all sail on her, every yard-arm
looking aft as the spars ascended, the jibs
swelling out upon the slightly bowed jibbooms, the
Stratford was walking through it like the clipper
that she was, a belt of foam racing past to leeward,
and a sharp playing and flashing of glass-like
water to windward where the surge that rolled
away from her weather bow met the oncoming run
of the waves, and broke them, and was itself
shattered into a tumble of glittering green, full of
bubbles and feather-shaped patches of foam. Away
on the starboard-bow was the dim bluish shadow
of land, whilst astern the seething wake of the ship
ran away in a line of snow in which the sunshine
kindled a thousand glories of green and yellow and
blue and diamond-white, as though some hand
under the counter were emptying bagsfull of gems
upon the water. Presently one of the apprentices
came aft, took the ensign out of the flag-locker,
and stopped the fly of it with a rope yarn. This
converted it into what is called a " whiff " or
wave " or " waft " or " wist," or in plain English
a signal for a boat, and bending it on to the peak
signal halliards, the youth ran the flag aloft where
it shook its straight-jacketed length against the
blue sky.

Chapter X.

MB. MOEECOMBE GOES ASHORE.

It was half-past eleven before any notice was taken
of the signal, and then you might have seen a
white sail shining upon the sea to the right of the
land that had broadened ahead, and was now on
either bow, and taking the unmistakable configuration
of the Isle of Wight coast between Dunno
and St. Catherine's Point. All this while Florence
had remained below, but suddenly on removing
my eyes from the pilot vessel that was coming
down to us, with a sharp heel of her mainsail, like
the weather pinion of a gull rounding into the eye
of a strong gale of wind. I glanced behind me and
saw Florence and her aunt. They both stood near
the mizzen mast, and Miss Damaris was holding onto
one of the belaying pins that circled the spar.
I was very completely taken aback by the sight
of her, but had mind enough left in me to note
her attire, which consisted of a small brown straw
bonnet, over which was drawn the hood of a long

thick cloak, so that, with her sharp hard bony
face peering out of the cavernous head-gear, she
might very well have passed for a lean Roman
Catholic priest, rendered cadaverous by a large
number of midnight vigils and mortifications. She
did not look the sweeter for the spell of sea-sickness
she had suffered from, and her keen greenish eyes
travelled swiftly about, as she ran them over the
sea, and the ship and the passengers. When
Florence met my glance, a slight smile curled
about her mouth, and she looked up at the stopped
ensign with a sort of inquisitiveness, as if she
partly suspected what it meant, but would like to
make sure. I hardly knew what to do for a
moment, whether to address her or "make tracks."
I was in a manner fascinated by the old woman,
and my stare attracted her notice presently, for
she gave it me back with a bit of a scowl that, so
to say, forced me to act ; so stepping up to her
with a pluck at the brim of my hat, I said in my
politest way that I was sorry to have learnt from
her niece that she had been ill ; would she allow
me to get her a chair ?

"No, thank you," she answered, with a touch of
old Hawke's pomp in her manner, coupled with a
large dash of acidity, and a brisk look of surprise
at Florence, as if she wondered how her niece and
I could have become intimate enough to talk about
her in so short a time.

Will you tell fine the meaning of that flag?"
said Florence, with a world of amusement in her
face, and looking lovely beyond expression in her
hat, that was looped up on one side with a feather
that rattled along the scuppers of it, and a warm
tight-fitting jacket, with fur upon the sleeves and
neck and bottom.

It is a signal for a boat," said I, "to take the
pilot ashore. Yonder she comes — that white sail
there."

Just then Thompson passed us, and seeing his
friend Damaris on deck he lurched up to her with
a deep-sea bow. " Glad to see you up, Miss
Hawke," says he ; " but then you know you're an
old sailor, and I couldn't dream of allowing you
more than one day to suffer from sea-sickness."

I should want a month," she answered in her
sharp manner, with a kind of peck forward of her
scythe-like nose, much as a pigeon moves its head
when it walks, " if I were not an old sailor, for of
all rolling ships the Straihmore is the worst. Don't
contradict me ; I'm sure of what I say. What
have you been doing with the vessel all this time,
captain ? I hope there'll be no more pitching
this voyage. It was shocking" last night — I wonder
I have a whole bone left. Never again will I take
a stern cabin. Where are we, sir ? What land is
that?"

The Isle of Wight, ma'am," answered Daniel.

VOL. II. N

Well, I'm sure you've taken time enough to
reach it," she exclaimed.

"We shall be heaving-to in a moment for that
boat," said Daniel; " and then, Miss Hawke, when
the pilot has dropped over the side," giving me a
look that made me tremble, for I wanted no freemasonry
of that kind under the shadow of Damaris'
hatchet countenance, " we will brace the yards
around again and fairly start for beautiful Australia.
And a fine run we shall make, no doubt.
What do you think, Mr. Edgemore ? By the way,
Miss Hawke, will you allow me to introduce an old
schoolfellow of mine to you — Mr. "

Egerton," I exclaimed, covering up the interpolation
by a profuse bow, whilst Daniel left us to
give some directions to the chief mate. Aunt
Damaris inclined her angular body, and Florence
pretended to be engrossed by the spectacle of the
approaching pilot cutter. I could not help thinking
that the sound of Egerton put a pleasant
look into the old lady's face. She ran her eyes
over me in a sharp quick inspection of my clothes,
paying close attention to my boots, and dwelling
upon the silk handkerchief round my neck ; and
then said she, " Are you going to settle in Australia,
Mr. Egerton ? "

N — no, I think not," I answered. " I'm just
going to have a look round."

I hope you're not going out with the idea of

making your fortune," said she. "You'll be disappointed'
if that's your dream. Money is just
as hard to get in Australia as in England. I mean
gentlemen find it so. Mechanics and labourers
manage, but there's no room for gentlemen." And
she cast her eyes upon the Isle of Wight, as though
she would suggest that I had better get ashore
whilst the chance remained, if I was going to
Australia with the notion that I could make my
fortune there as a gentleman.

I am not going to Australia for the sake of
money," I replied blandly. " I am fond of travelling
by water, and I am particularly anxious to
see the lovely Bay of Sydney."

Florence looked round as though wishful to
check any approach to equivocation. But what
was I to say? and wasn't my whole existence on
shipboard what is called in Dublin a " loy " and in
Newcastle a "lee" ?

Have you been sea-sick, Mr. Egerton ? " asked
Damaris, rounding off the name as if she liked
pronouncing it.

I did not breakfast in the cuddy yesterday
morning," said I, rendered resolute by the lovely
exhortation in my darling's eyes to be as accurate
as I possibly could ; " but I am sorry to
hear that there has been a good deal of suffering
among some of the passengers."

Yes, one gentleman," said she, with a glance

at Florence that instantly turned her face into
marble as it stood between me and the sweep of
soft blue sky over the quarter, " has, my niece
tells me, been very ill. He must expect to suffer
at first : but there is very little movement in the
ship now, and he ought to feel better. Do you
know, Florence, I have a great mind to send the
steward to him with my compliments and ask
him to make an effort to come on deck. The
sunshine and the air are sure to do him good."

You had better not interfere with him, aunt,"
said Florence quietly; "he will come on deck indue
course. If the man is sick, it will be cruel
to send him your compliments."

Don't call him the man, Florence," exclaimed
Aunt Damaris, with a kind of saw-like sound in
her throat, and her old nose gave another peck
out of the hood.

It was very certain from all this that she had
no idea how exceedingly ill Morecombe had been
or was. Florence had merely told her that he
was sea-sick, and having been confined to her
cabin the old lady had had no chance of learning
the truth. It was no part of my policy to enlighten
her. All this while the pilot boat was bearing
down fast upon us, sweeping along with a run of
snow past her glistening sides and the sunshine
pouring past her full on to the towering coast,
that stood like a vast fortress upon the sea.

Land was in sight now all the way along our
starboard beam, melting into mere faint blue blobs
as the Sussex shore trended towards Worthing
and Brighton, whilst right ahead you might just
catch a glimmer of the coast about Durlston Point,
with here and there a coaster or a smack creeping
along. And now while Aunt Damaris seemed to
be considering within herself whether she should
send her compliments to Mr. Morecombe, an order
was shouted from the poop, the crew came tumbling
aft, the lee mam braces were let go and the
great yards laid aback amid a deal of singing and
stamping and yells of " belay ! " The ship still
leaning under the tower of canvas upon her came
to a stand, and you could hear the water washing
with a sloppy sound all along her weather side,
and, just under the lee where the shelter of the
hull was, the oil-like surface was darkened by the
skurryiug of the draught down over the rail and
shooting away in a hundred swift lines like the
track of the long-legged insects you see on the
surface of a stream on a hot summer day.

Now it all at once flashed upon me that I should
not be doing my duty either to Florence or my
cousin Sophie if I missed the chance of the pilot
going ashore to send a letter to my cousin to tell
her that Morecombe's presence aboard was the
fruit of a conspiracy, and that my darling had no
more idea than I that he was to make the voyage

with her, and I also felt it clue to my uncle's fine
sense of the ridiculous to relate why and where
Moreconibe's voyage had come to an end. So I
said to Aunt Daniaris, " Will you allow me to
suggest, madam, that if you would like to write a
last line to your friends ashore, now is your opportunity,
as the pilot will be landing presently and
will take your letter."

She turned to Florence and said, " I wrote at
Gravesend — there is nothing to add. Would you
like to write ? " I caught Florence's decisive
resentful "No" as I walked away, thinking to
myself, " Nothing to add, eh, old girl ! You'll
see presently."

When I entered my cabin I found Morecombe,
fully dressed, sitting in an American chair. His
luggage I had noticed piled under the break of the
poop, ready to hand over the side. The poor
wretch looked so miserably ill, so wan, haggard,
death-like, that for the life of me I couldn't help
heartily pitying him, and it was human nature
perhaps that my sympathy should even stand
higher than it would have done under other circumstances,
for my triumph over him was enormous
in all ways, too remarkable altogether not to render
me very generous. I went to my trunk, saying
whilst I looked for the writing-case, "Your sufferings
will soon be over, Mr. Morecombe ; the pilot
cutter '11 be alongside in twenty minutes or so."

"Wha'g that you say?" he mumbled in a thick
voice, smiling meanwhile like an idiot. The strong
smell of brandy in the cabin, coupled with his
manner, caused me to look at him attentively, and
I then perceived that he was intoxicated. I could
not be surprised, for if ever a man's stomach wad
empty, his was ; and when a fellow is in that state
you know it does not take much to capsize him.
He had swallowed brandy plentifully in the night
without appearing the worse for it, owing maybe
to his sufferings ; but here he was now with several
caulkers too many in him, and when his glazed eyes
rolled in the hollows under his brows and he
grinned his imbecile grin as he said " Wha's that
you say ? " I thought to myself, u Oh, if Alphonso
could only see his beauty now ! "

I say, ole man," he cried in a kind of moaning
guttural, " come ashore too, will yah ? going t'
Australia's wot. Come along ! Where's th'
boat ? " He tried to rise, but his legs buckled up
under him and he fell back again, looking at his
shanks with drunken gravity. "Can't stand," he
muttered. " What cursed willing— nothing's
steady here — it's will, will, will. I'll wite to the
papers. Captain's a rascally impudent creature —
doctor's a duffer — dunno his business. I say, ole
man, call steward, will yer ? "

I sent the steward to him, and sat down at the
cuddy table to write a few lines to Sophie, giving

her all the news I could find time to put into my
letter, and particularly dwelling upon Morecombe's
drunken condition at the moment of his departure
from the ship. " Here, steward," said I to Hay,
who had come out of Morecombe's cabin, " put
that in the bag for the pilot, will you ? And,"
lowering my voice," try to hide the gentleman as
you get him over the side. I mean don't let the
passengers see more of his condition than you can
help — that is if you assist him to the gangway.
Who's made him drunk ? "

"Oh, himself, sir," answered'Hay. "He's been
calling for brandy all the morning. The doctor
told me to let him have as much as he wanted.
Anything,' Mr. Griffith said, ' to stop his sickness
till he's out of my hands.' "

I returned to the poop and found the pilot boat
within a quarter of a mile from us, coming along
nobly, and our decks full of people watching her.
All the cuddy passengers, including Mrs. Jackson,
lined the rail, and Florence and her aunt stood at
the break of the poop, close to the starboard
ladder, where they commanded the quarter-deck
and gangway. I perceived a bit of feminine malice
in this on the part of Florence, and when she
turned and spied me standing a fathom or two
behind her, a gleam shot into her eyes that would
have made me laugh outright had not her Aunt
Damaris been within earshot. " Stand by ready

with a line one of you ! " sung out the chief mate ;
and in a few minutes the large powerful craft
hauled down her foresail, shifted her helm, and
swept alongside. The pilot without ado shook
hands with Thompson and the chief mate, touched
his cap in a sort of all-round manner to the
passengers, wished us all, he was sure, a
prosperous voyage, and dropped into the cutter.

I drew nearer by a couple of paces to Aunt
Damaris. The second mate on the main deck was
giving orders about Morecombe's luggage, and his
boxes and sword-stick and umbrella and macintosh
were handed along and passed over the side.
Presently Morecombe himself emerged from the
cuddy front, propped up by Hay and a couple of
under-stewards. You never could have guessed
how his spell of sea-sickness had changed him by
seeing him in his cabin. The brilliant sunshine
on the quarter-deck was the light to view him in.
He turned his inebriated tallow-white face up at
the people who looked down at him from the poop,
and I saw Florence take a step back with the recoil
of a person utterly dismayed.

"Why," cried Aunt Damaris, in a shrill tone,
it's Mr. Morecombe ! Where is he going ?
What's the matter with him ? " And the whole of
her face, with a foreground of brown bonnet,
forked out of the hood, as she stretched her neck
with her hands up and her mouth open.

How d'ye do, Miss Hawke ? " exclaimed the
-wretched creature, forcing the stewards to come to
a stand while he wrestled to free his arm that he
might pull off his hat. " I'm going home. Too
much willing for me. Been half killed by following
your advice. Take your love to 'Phonso ?
Tell him no more rotten sailing ships for me.
Good-bye, capt'n — look out — I'll expose you for
dragging me about when I'm dying."

By this time the condition of the man was plain
to everybody, and the seamen and 'tween-deck
passengers were all on the broad grin, some laughing
out. Even among us aft, where there would
be more delicacy if not more sympathy, you might
have heard an occasional titter.

Now then, how long is the gent going to keep
us waiting here ? " roared the hoarse voice of the
pilot over the side.

"Why, Florence," I heard Aunt Damaris exclaim,
seizing her niece's arm, " has he gone mad ?■
Is he actually leaving the ship ? "

Ay," said the chief mate, who stood near us,
and who would not suspect that Mr. Morecombe
was a friend of hers ; " and don't you think it's
time that he left ? Why, he looks a corpse,
ma'am — and a drunken corpse too ! " he added
with a half-laugh.

Meanwhile the stewards were shoving Morecombe
towards the gangway ; and being as I reckoned

almost as ranch delirious as intoxicated, lie was
jabbering nonsense all the time, sometimes shouting
it, cursing and swearing in such a way that
Mrs. O'Brien, and Mrs. Jackson, and Mrs. Grant
and her daughter walked aft out of hearing, and
Florence would have gone too, I believe, only that
her aunt, who stood petrified, had a tight hold of
her arm. It was like a row in a street to see the
squalid crowd of emigrants pressing round More-combe
as he was bundled into the gangway. A
pitiable sight truly, and very distressing to me ;
for after all the fellow was a gentleman, although
a puppy and a fool ; he had suffered fearfully, and
if ever a drop too much was excusable in a manit
was so in him at that time ; and I say it went
desperately against my grain to see that chap as
white as if he had been confined to his bedroom for
six months, with his moustache bedraggled, his hat
jammed upon his head, his neckcloth awry, and his
hollow face the merest phantom of the handsome
countenance he had brought aboard with him,
drunkenly swearing at the captain and the ship,
trying to address Florence and her aunt, and all the
'tween-deck passengers and sailors pressing round
him and laughing at him and passing jokes.

Never shall I forget the look of disgust in my
darling's face. All her old dislike of the man was
worked up into a sort of horror, and I give you my
word she watched him as if he were some offensive

kind of animal. Her aunt stood like a woman
who beholds a ghost. I could see her gaping at
him as her lean face shot out of her hood. She
never spoke after her exclamation of amazement
to Florence. Once I thought she meant to go
down to him, but it was at the moment when his
pleasant language drove the other ladies away, and
she never shifted her feet again until the sailors
had handed Mr. Morecombe over the side. There
was a rush of passengers to see the cutter leave,
and I supposed from the laughter which rang
along that Alphonso's friend was making a sad
fool of himself: but I had no chance of looking,
for when he was being bundled through the gangway
Florence had turned to me and said, " What
a horrid scene ! is he not intoxicated ? "

Very much so," I answered : " were he sober
he would have less life in him."

I am astonished ! I cannot believe my senses ! "
cried Aunt Damaris. " Surely he cannot be drunk !
he must be mad."

I say, captain," bawled Captain Jackson from
the rail where he stood looking at the cutter, and
addressing Thompson, who was waiting for the
boat to get away to haul the main yards around,
can't you order the fellows down here to shove
off and leave us ? That drunken vagabond is
swearing in a manner not fit for the women folk on
the main deck there to listen to ! "

Is this Mr. Murecoinbe a friend of yours,
madam ? *' said I to Aunt Damans.

"A friend? Why do you ask, sir?" she
answered, with her sharp face full of bewilderment,
shame, and indignation.

"He shared my cabin," said I, " and I can tell
you about his sickness if you are sufficiently interested
to listen."

Oh, pray come away, pray come away ! " cried
she, " I cannot hear you for the disgraceful noise
those people are making ; " and she led the way
aft, going indeed to the extreme end of the poop.

Did you say you could tell me something about
him, sir ? " she exclaimed, with a sharp peck of
her face at me as she tackled me afresh.

I know him only as a person who shared my
cabin," I answered. " He was excessively seasick,
and in my opinion is well advised to leave
the vessel, as I believe another day or two of what
he called ' willing ' would have killed him. I was
up pretty nearly all through the night with him.
Is he a gentleman ? I was disposed to consider
him respectable until I heard his very wicked
language."

Don't ask me any questions about him ! " cried
the old lady. " Florence, could you have believed
this of him ? Could you have imagined him
capable of such conduct ? "

My darling pursed up her mouth and looked at

lier aunt steadily, then dropped her eyes without
speaking.

What could he taking him to Australia ? " said
I. "He could not he going there for the love of
the people of that country, surely, for he spoke in
great contempt of them. I hope, madam," said I,
in the mildest tone I could assume, " that I shall
not he giving offence if I declare him, on my
honour, to he one of the greatest asses that was
ever let loose hy nature upon the world. If Captain
Thompson were not busy I would call upon him to
give you his opinion of Mr. Morecombe. Was he
going to seek his fortune ? You should have been
boxed up with him, as I was, and listened to the
imbecilities he delivered himself of in the intervals
of his sickness. What could have induced him, do
you conceive, to attempt a voyage of which the first
twenty-four hours have very nearly killed him ? "

I have requested you not to ask me any
questions about him, sir ! " exclaimed Aunt
Damaris, shrilly. "Florence, come with me
downstairs. I am quite unnerved. Could anything
be more extraordinary ? Fancy leaving the
ship drunk; never giving anybody the least idea
of his intentions — and think of the whole of his
passage-money being wasted ! " And making a
kind of snap at Florence's arm, she walked
hurriedly to the companion, giving me a stiff bow
just before she disappeared down the steps.

CHAPTER XL

AUNT DA3IAPJS IS CONFIDENTIAL.

Well, by this time the main yards had been swung,
and the Stratford was heading on her road down
Channel, fairly under way, on her own hook, for
the other side of the world. The swell of the sea
had gone down, there was no weight in the brisk
small surges which the merry wind had set a-
rolling, and the fine ship, with all plain sail on
her, from the flying-jib to the mizzen-royal, swept
steadily along with a heel of the hull that sloped
her canvas against the blue sky and the white
sunlight in the south, that was making a blaze of
silver of the water over the port bow. It was a
day fit to keep a mute grinning for the fulness of
the life and the light of it. You saw the high
clouds blowing like bits of mother-o' pearl out of
the distant green land, which shelved in and outwith
a space of lustrous white right abeam, where
Durlston Point yawned into the Solent, and the
wake astern, spreading into a fan of foam, seemed to

be full of leaping mackerel, "with the sparking up of
glittering lumps of water where the windward line
of the track collided with the little seas and shivered
them. Of all that numerous company of human
souls which the ship was hearing to a distant land,
there was surely none happier at. heart than I. It
was not only that Morecombe was out of the road,
it was not only that his manner of going was the
completest victory over her father and aunt that
Florence could have won, it was not only that my
darling was in the ship with me and that I knew I
had her love ; the magic of the sea was in me too,
mates; all the freedom and delight that comes
blowing to a man upon the salt, sunlit wind, all
the gladness of health and imagination that is
swept up like spray out of the heave of the coiling
billows and that passes into the heart as the spirit
of a pure and generous cordial works its way into
the brain. I stood lost in thought, but with straining
eyes, as I may warrant, gazing at the flickering
gleam of the pilot cutter's canvas as it hovered
upon the bright green waters before melting into
the film of dim land beyond.

It was now lunch-time, the passengers were in
the cuddy, and I joined them ; there seemed to be
no more sea-sickness, though I questioned if the
Bay of Biscay would not revive a qualm here and
there. But there was no excuse for nausea now,
for though there was a sort of breathing in the

water, a respiration rolling up as it might be out
of the ocean towards which we were heading, with
a kind of yearning response to it in the floating
hurl of the ship, it was too long-drawn to take
notice of, and the deep Stratford seemed to be
sailing as steadily over the foam which her shearing
cutwater flung under and along her bends asa
sleigh over a level plain of snow. Aunt Damaris
and Florence were already seated when I sculled
round the side of the table, and took the place I
had heretofore occupied ; the old lady had decked
herself out in a cap and mittens, and there was a
hard wooden look on her face. When she noticed
where I had seated myself, she lay back so as to peer
at me from behind Thompson's broad shoulders, on
which I said, " Did you speak, Miss Hawke ? "

"No, sir, I did not," she replied, whipping herself
erect as a length of bent whalebone recovers
itself.

I saved your old post for you, you see," said
Thompson to her.

u But why do you separate me from my niece ? "
she inquired, inspecting him severely from the level
of his eyes, for she and Daniel were of the same
stature, sitting and standing.

u Why," he answered, u if I put you both on
my right or left, there would be one of you that
couldn't by any possibility be next to me. Now I
couldn't forego you, and at the same time I didn't

VOL. II. o

want to lose the happiness of having your niece by
my side ; so how should a plain sailor work such
a traverse as this except by placing himself between
you ? "

Well, she couldn't help herself, for to have made
Florence change her place would have been rather
too marked a proceeding, with all the passengers
there looking on ; and then, again, do you see, she
might not perhaps have been sure that Florence
would obey her. Meanwhile during this brief
skirmish my darling sat quiet, glancing at the
people, and not appearing to hear what her aunt
was talking about. I said to her, speaking low —
and unless her aunt dodged Thompson's square
figure she never could tell, if we sank our tones,
whether Florence and I conversed or not — "After
the very humiliating defeat of Morecombe's plot,
your aunt, I suppose, will give up playing duenna."

Do not mention that man's name to me," she
replied softly. " I am so disgusted that I do not
even like to think of him. I am sure the motion
of the ship has driven him crazy. What language
for a gentleman to use ! "

He was drunk," said I ; ** the poor wretch did
not know what he said. Before we shelve him, tell
me, my pet, what your aunt thinks of him ? "

What would she think of you, could she hear
you call me your pet ? " said my love, hiding her
face by looking close into her plate.

Are you not my pet ? " I whispered.

You say I am, and I suppose therefore I must
be," she replied.

My pet for life, darling ! my pet to "

Florence," rasped out Aunt Damaris, with her
sharp nose projecting beyond Daniel's cravat ;
don't you hear me speak to you ? "

No, aunt," she replied, colouring up. " What
is it you say ? "

Do you want me to borrow Captain Thompson's
speaking-trumpet? " cried the old lady. " I'm
asking you if you have my smelling bottle in your
pocket?"

Florence found the bottle and passed it.

"I'm afraid," whispered I, "that your aunt is
a little quick-tempered. I don't like to hear my
darling addressed so sharply."

Oh, she is terribly mortified by what has happened,"
she replied. "And you must know that
she is in the utmost fright lest the passengers
should suspect Mr. ATorecornbe and we were previously
acquainted. She is very sensitive as to
other people's opinions of her." That I might
have suspected of Alphonso Hawke's sister. " She
nearly went into hysterics when we left the deck.
She advocated the man so warmly after they were
introduced in London, and took papa's side so
strongly ! She feels thoroughly humiliated, and
is the more angry because she cannot quarrel with

me about him, and lias nobody else that she can
open her mind to."

"You must have had a great deal of courage to
accept her as a companion for a long voyage,
Florence'

Yes," she answered quickly, and with the
tiniest show of warmth, " but then I did not know
the meaning of the voyage. It is explained now,
but I do not regret being here ; " and she looked
at me.

The impassioned answer I was about to make
was baulked by the navy man calling out, "Captain,
Mrs. O'Brien is under the impression that
the young gentleman who has left us is the son of
a baronet of old family. Is the lady right ? "

"Yell find I am," exclaimed Mrs. O'Brien.

We shipmasters are never supposed to know
anything about our passengers," replied Thompson
blandly. " Our duty is to convey them safely from
port to port, and endeavour to make them happy
and comfortable whilst they are with us."

And quite enough too," said Mr. Thompson
Tucker. " A man's business is nobody's but his
own."

Quite so," observed Mr. Marmaduke Mortimer,
who, along with his newly-married wife, was
exceedingly polite and amiable to everybody when
not engaged in being affectionate.

There's Miss Hawke perhaps will tell us about

the gentleman," cried Mrs. O'Brien, coming out
very easily with Aunt Damans' name. " I believe,
mam, you had met before ? "

I am really unable to give you any information
about him," replied the old lady very grimly, and
with an expression of face I was left to imagine,
not being able to see her. Daniel glanced at
me, and I at Florence. If the passengers had
supposed that Aunt Damaris was previously acquainted
with Morecombe, this answer of hers
put their doubts at rest. Apparently nothing had
restrained them from speaking their minds about
the youth but the idea that the Hawkes were
friends of his, which they would have got perhaps
from seeing him sitting and talking with them in
the cuddy — as I did — when we were in the river.

Does anybody know," observed Mrs. Jackson,
what object Mr. Morecombe had in coming into
this ship ? Surely he couldn't have embarked
only for the purpose of being sea-sick, and then
drinking himself intoxicated and using profane
words."

u I suppose he forfeits his passage-money, captain
? " said Mr. Manna duke Mortimer.

"Oh yes," answered Daniel; "that's gone as
completely as he has."

What could be taking him to Australia ? " persisted
Mrs. Jackson. " If he had any motive in
going there at all, it is so very odd that he

should abandon the voyage within a few hours of
his commencing it."

He's a lunatic, Maria," said her husband,
"and as bad a specimen of the kind as ever I
encountered."

I felt for Florence's hand and gave it a squeeze ;
there was a disconcerted look, with a touch of pain
and shame in it, in the darling's face, but the
pressure brought out a little smile.

He was driven out of the ship by sea-sickness,
Captain Jackson," said I. " He was no lunatic.
He shared my cabin and I witnessed his sufferings.
The doctor there will tell you that the steward had
orders not to stint him in brandy, the only specific
that would give him life enough to put on his
clothes and leave the ship."

I did not conceive that he would make himself
drunk, Mr. Egerton," said the doctor.

I've been a temperate man all my life," said
Daniel : " but had I suffered as Mr. Morecombe
did, I'd have been willing to swallow the English
Channel had it been brandy or whisky. Captain
Jackson, you could have seen in the young gentleman's
face what he had gone through."

"Ay, but his language!" cried Mrs. O'Brien.
Sure it was horrible, captain. He drove me
away, and the dreadful words still ring in me
ears."

Oh, come, it wasn't so bad as all that," exclaimed

Mr. Thompson Tucker. " A few strong
words, you know, Mrs. O'Brien, but really nothing
more than an enraged lord would bestow upon a
clumsy valet."

"Besides," said I, " the man didn't know what
he was saying."

"But the words would be in him when he was
sober," cried Mrs. O'Brien, M so that makes him
a bad person any way."

"That's just it," remarked Mrs. Grant. "If
there's wickedness in the heart, it does not matter
whether the tongue speaketh it or not."

Well, I don't know about that," said Mr.
Thompson Tucker. " It mayn't matter to the man,
perhaps, but it's not all the same to the company
he's in."

If Mr. Morecombe is really a baronet's son,"
exclaimed Captain Jackson, with immense emphasis
and in a sort of summing up wa T , " all that I
can say is, I am very sorry to hear it, for such
a creature as he would be a disgrace to Whitechapel."


Aunt Damaris left the table, and in a few
moments Florence followed her.

The others sat a while speaking their minds
very freely about Mr. Morecombe ; but as the
subject was tiresome, and it was no part of my
business to defend the absent man's character, I
went on deck to meditate upon the numerous

things which had in the most unexpected way
turned out to my advantage, one of the first in
importance, in my opinion, being Aunt Damaris'
answer to Mrs. O'Brien. Think of Alphonso's
sister pretending not to know anything about
Morecombe ! What shame that piece of shamming
expressed — what disgust ! Sir Keginald
Morecombe's son positively disowned by the sister
of the man who was plotting like the very spirit
of mischief to get his daughter to accept him !
Why, had Morecombe left the ship in the most
dignified manner, taking a respectful and reluctant
farewell of Aunt Damaris and Florence, and
followed by the sympathy and admiration of the
passengers, I should have accepted his departure
as a marvellous stroke of good fortune for me.
Eut going as he had— drunk and swearing —-amid
the gibes and laughter of the 'tween deck people,
causing by his behaviour all the passengers aft to
wonder who he could be and rendering Aunt
Damaris too heartily ashamed and disgusted to
admit that he was a friend of hers and Florence,
made the whole business a sort of miracle of
good luck. It was entirely beyond any plot that
I could have contrived for my own advancement;
my cleverest wishes never could have reached upto
the perfectly simple but exquisite ingenuity of
accident.

The ship was sailing fast ; the wind blew with a

cheerful humming into the gray hollers of the
swelling canvas whose face glared like cotton at
the sun over the lee topsail yarclarms ; and there
was a deeper green in the curve of the long and
scarcely perceptible swell that under-swept a
Hashing hurry of surges which ran at the deep
and steady ship ahem with a feathering and
flaming of their crests, and went away to leeward
in oil-smooth billows. The decks made a picture
to fill the eye ; children running about in the sunshine
'twixt the galley and the bulwarks where the
cable-range lay thick and massive, whilst the foot
of the swollen foresail arched over transversely
with the shrouds and backstairs ruled black against
the gray of the shadowed cloths ; groups of people
on the forecastle hanging over the rail and watching
the passing water, or walking to and fro with their
hair blowing to the strong down-draught of blue
sunlit wind pouring under the forelock or out from
the hollow of the topmast stay-sail, and a shifting
of shadows all along, and a gushing of white light
between the sails, and an eager sparkling of glass
and brass in fresh places as a gust would blow with
a moan over the bulwarks and heel the ship by a
quarter of a strake, or as the long swell rose full at
her forefoot and slowly lifted the flying jibboom-end
with a tender sinking of the counter towards the
snow of the wake that whirled out from under the
quarters.

After a little Aunt Damans and Florence arrived
on deck. I was standing forward of the port
quarter-boat leaning against the rail, and thought
it best to appear not to see them. So I looked to
be absorbed in watching the foam rushing past
under the channels, and when I took another peep
over my shoulder I spied them in conversation with
Daniel and Mr. Thompson Tucker. I was deep
in thought when I heard somebody say, " Mr.
Egerton," and turning I found Aunt Damaris at
my elbow. She was alone, and Florence on the
other side patrolling the deck with her arm in
Daniel's. " Mr. Egerton," said she, in a much milder
tone than I should have thought possible in the possessor
of so lean and acidulated a face, "did not you
tell me that you shared Mr. Morecombe's cabin ? "

"Yes," I replied, breathing a little quickly,
that is so."

You know," she continued, very polite and still
very mild, "that that gentleman's extraordinary
manner of leaving the ship has excited much observation
among the passengers. Mrs. O'Brien, as
you probably heard, quite conveyed the idea that
she supposed Mr. Morecombe and I were acquainted
previous to our meeting here. Can you tell me,
Mr. Egerton, if you ever heard him say anything
likely to produce such an impression ? "

"Well," said I, "if you will have the truth,.
Miss Hawke, my answer is 'Yes.' "

Oh, indeed ! ' she exclaimed, starting. " What
was it he said?"

The notion he gave me was," said I, speaking
slowly, with a cautious reference to my conscience,
and at the same time much enjoying this unexpected
privilege of plain speaking, "that he and
you, and a gentleman whom he vulgarly ridiculed
as an old Australian cock, had plotted this voyage
in the hope that he would sicken your niece, who
had already rejected him, into accepting him. I
gathered that he was in want of money, although
the son of a baronet and apparently very highly
connected. I inferred that he had embarked on
this voyage as a commercial speculation. There
seemed to be no love, no liking even in the matter.
He was wanted, I understood, because of the title
that would come to him at his father's death. That's
all I know about him," said I coolly.

Aunt Damans' face was a curious picture. Palo
and gaping, eyes goggling, brows arched with
horror and amazement, and indignation writhing
in her lean features, it formed as it stared forth
upon me out of her bonnet one of the most striking
and impressive recollections of a life not wholly
undiversified.

"I hope, Mr. Egerton," she gasped, "that you
didn't believe him. Pray was he drunk when he
talked in this manner ? "

He was very sea-sick, but not drunk," I replied.

She bit her lip, she looked round at Florence,
and seemed in real distress of mind. "How very
dreadful," she exclaimed, " that he should talk to
a perfect stranger in that way." Then, cocking her
eye at my face with a very earnest look at it, she
appeared, as the Scotch say, to take a thought,
and said, " Walk with me up and down, will you,
Mr. Egerton ? "

With pleasure ; let me give you the support of
my arm ; there is a slight heaving in the ship."
And, hooked on to each other, off we stumped the
whole length of the deck in the tail of the Joyce
procession, whilst Florence stared as if she distrusted
her eyesight, and Daniel seemed to be one
immense grin from his boots to his cap.

"Mr. Egerton," said Aunt Damaris, after a short
pause, and with a sort of tremulous sucking in of
her breath before she spoke, " I am sure you are a
gentleman."

"You are very good, Miss Hawke," said I. "I
hope I am — I try to behave as one."

"Your name speaks for itself," she continued.
But I like your manners. You'll excuse my plain
speaking — I'm old enough to deserve forgiveness for
being candid. I was much pleased by the way in
which you defended Mr. Morecombe at lunch
against the sneers of Captain Jackson."

Well," said I, " I have no opinion of Mr. More-combe
; but the man had suffered, I had witnessed

what he went through, and it was right that I
should give my evidence."

His behaviour at the last was most odious," she
exclaimed, holding on tight to my arm in her
agitation. "It seems incredible that a person of
breeding should get drunk and use such language."

"Why, yes," said I, "but as he was a perfect
stranger to us all, his conduct need not signify."

Her grip of my arm tightened, and she said, " It
would ease my mind to speak out. As a gentleman,
Mr. Egerton, you are, I am sure, to be trusted."

Implicitly," I exclaimed.

"Well, then," said she, "what Mr. Morecombe
told you was not wholly false, but dreadfully
exaggerated, in consequence, as I do not doubt,
of drink. His statement to you places me in a
most awkward position — that is, if you should think
proper to repeat it, which I trust and pray you nay
not, for if the passengers were to hear the story it
would make the voyage exceedingly uncomfortable
to me."

You need not fear, Miss Hawke," said I
tenderly, and with a small squeeze of her bony
arm against my ribs ; " not a hint of Mr. More-combe's
exaggerated, if not drunken, statement,
shall ever escape me."

Thank you, Mr. Egerton. You know what the
passengers think of him," she continued, her
manner so mild that you might fairly call it soft.

Had he joined this ship merely as an acquaintance,
I should not object to owning him as such ;
but there were other reasons. He exaggerated
horribly, I assure you, but his story to you was not
wholly false."

"I suppose," said I, in an off-hand way, "that
your niece will be rich, and that he was pursuing
her in compliance with her papa's wishes, but
against her own."

"Ye — yes," said she, with great reluctance in
her manner, "that to a large extent is it. I was
deceived. When I was introduced to him by my
niece's papa — my brother, sir — I took him to be a
very gentlemanly young man, and w T as most favourably
impressed by him. This, too, was my brother's
opinion, and we certainly thought him a desirable
match for my niece. Who could have imagined
that he would have acted so disgracefully in this
ship ! so vilely as to force me to imply that he was
an utter stranger to me, and to oblige me to be
begging you to conceal his story from the passengers,
that we may escape their impertinent
chatter during the time we are in the vessel ! "

You have my warmest sympathy, Miss Hawke,
I am sure ; and as to my secrecy you may count
upon me as if I were a priest. I shall dismiss his
story from my mind — more especially all that part
about this voyage being a plot, and the ship a rattrap
in which he was to catch your niece."

"What a horrid creature!" she exclaimed.
Fancy anybody calling himself a gentleman
talking like that of a young lady ! A rat-trap ! I
wish I could catch him in one ! I should like to
punish the odious fellow ! "

Then I am to assume, Miss Hawke," said I,
that he did not join this ship at the wish of your
brother ? "

"No, I won't say that," she answered. "You
may assume that he did — my brother believing, as
I did, that he was a gentleman in feeling as well as
by birth, and a not undesirable acquisition to our
family. But the very moment I arrive in Sydney I
will write a letter to Clifton that shall undeceive
my brother in that respect. A desirable match !
Why, after his misconduct, his manner of leaving
the ship, his dreadful language, I would no more
dream of sanctioning his alliance with my niece
than of allowing her to wed one of the sailors
at the end of the ship there."

The old rasp was in her throat as she delivered
herself of these words, but it clearly did her good to
ease her mind. It was what the old creature
wanted ; the chance had come, and you may reckon
I didn't baulk her. On a sudden she let go my arm,
stepping out nevertheless very briskly alongside of
me, and accommodating her old legs with much
dexterity to the inclined deck and the occasional
floating heave of it, and looked at me attentively

with a preliminary anxious peck towards rne of her
chopper-like face. " I really don't know' said shew
what you can think of me for talking to you so
candidly and, indeed, I hardly know what to think of
myself. You see how it has come about, don't you ?
Shame forced me to tell Mrs. O'Brien I could give her
no information concerning Mr. Morecombe ; and then
I discover that among those who heard that answer
w T ere you, Mr. Egerton, to whom that wretched
young man had related a most exaggerated story,
equal to a lie, sir, indeed. A rat-trap ? the horrid
creature ! Why did I ever place myself in such a
position ? I simply desired to oblige my brother
and to promote the interests of my niece, as I
believed. I trust you will not speak to your friend
the captain ? Pray consider how intensely mortified
my feelings would be if I conceived that Mr. More-combe's
aggravating falsehoods were to pass about,
and get from us here to those low passengers who
actually made a sort of rag-fair of the ship when
that miserable person left the vessel. I could
never show my nose on deck ; I never could. I
am dreadfully sensitive."

I assured her again in the most emphatic
language I could employ, that no syllable of what
either she or Mr. Morecombe had related should
escape me. On this she took my arm again, and
became wonderfully gracious. Regularly as we came
abreast in our walk of Daniel and Florence on the

weather side of the deck I would note my darling
peeping at me with laughing eyes, whilst the
natural red of the skipper's face would occasionally
take a sort of apoplectic duskiness from the severity
of his pent-up merriment. My keen anxiety to he
exceedingly polite to Aunt Damaris, my perfect
willingness to do anything she required, no doubt
rendered my behaviour and society very pleasing.
Indeed, to speak the truth, I had always made
shift, ever since I was a little boy, to " get on," as
it is called, with old ladies. I can't tell you what
there was in me to please them, but they always
took to me. "What Florence had implied of her
aunt — that Morecombe's conduct had established a
heavy grievance in her mind, and she was crazy
through not having anybody to open herself to —
was proved now that she had hold of my arm and
found me sympathetic. I never knew an old
tongue to rattle on as her's did. Had I been her
lawyer or her oldest friend she could not have been
more garrulous and communicative. She told mein
what part of Sydney she was born, how her
father had made a great deal of money by buying a
piece of land which was now crowded with fine
houses ; how her brother Alphonso had acquired a
fortune by breeding sheep, and so on ; and then
she would talk of Morecombe and abuse him,
declaring that she should never cease to wonder at
her blindness in not perceiving that his manners
vol. it. r

when they were introduced were the cheapest kind
of social veneer, hiding a very despicable nature.
But, said she, her brother's praise of horn had
greatly prejudiced her in his favour, and then you
see he was a baronet's son, and very highly connected;
"and what made me more willing," she
exclaimed, " to help the project my brother had in
sending my niece with me to Australia in company
with Mr. Morecombe was the annoyance that had
been caused him by a Mr. Jack Seymour, who had
met his daughter at Clifton, and had fallen in love
with her. "

Oh, indeed," said I, feeling my throat turn
very dry: "there has evidently been no lack of
complication in all this business, Miss Hawke."

Too much for me, I can assure you, Mr.
Egerton," she answered ; " indeed it is enough to
make me thankful that I am a single woman and
spared all the anxiety of children. However,
indignant as my brother will feel when he hears
about Mr. Morecombe, and reflects that he has spent
his money in vain — for I must tell you that the
pitiful creature actually allowed Mr. Hawke to pay
his passage to Sydney — it will console him to know
that the voyage effectually puts a stop to the pursuit
of the underbred person who was paying attention
to my niece through the medium of his cousins."

"Yes, that ought to console him," said I ; " the
voyage is not hopelessly aimless."

Quite jbhe reverse," she cried. " What I shall
tell my brother is that nothing more fortunate
could have happened : for it enabled us to discover
the real character of that worthless creature Mr.
Morecombe before it was too late — I mean, before
my niece had become his wife : besides putting
an end to the mischievous attentions of the person
I have named, who, my brother told me, had been
a sailor, and was a very common insulting youth."

Lucky, thought I, that this is not said in my
darling's presence ! If it did not force her to
betray me by look or by speech, might I be hanged !
As for my own feelings, why, all the effect the words
had was to set me laughing, to cover which I exclaimed,
" Thanks to the interest you take in your
niece, Miss Hawke, both the common sailor youth
and Mr. Morecombe are effectually cleared away
out of her road"'

'eyes," she answered, smiling grimly, in sympathy
with my laugh or out of politeness ; " the
voyage was well planned after all, though the
consequences to me might have been exceedingly
disagreeable had Mr. Morecombe talked as freely
to the other passengers as he did to you."

And then, after a bit of a pause, she said, "I
think you told me that you are not going to
Australia to settle ? "

Xo, I shall probably return in this ship."

'• Do your family reside in England, Mr.

Egerton?" she asked. It was the most fortunate
thing in the world that Florence quitted Daniel at
that moment and joined us. There was a long-family
catechism in each of the greenish eyes Aunt
Damaris turned upon me, and I was trembling on
the verge of a bottomless pit of equivocation when
my sweetheart unconsciously came to my rescue.

"You know my niece, so there is no need to
introduce you," said the old lady most graciously.
"Florence, my dear, I have been taking I don't
know how many turns, and it is astonishing how
much better I feel for the exercise."

You certainly look the better for it, aunt," exclaimed
Florence, with a rich note of laughter in
her voice, and glancing at me with her eyes rendered
brilliant by the contrast of the soft warm colour on
her cheeks.

I hope," said I, "that this is only the first of
many walks of the same kind, for nothing could
be more agreeable to me," and with a slight bow
and a lift of my hat I sheered off, noting with
intense satisfaction the gratified look in Aunt
Damaris' face.

Well, soon afterwards they went below, and I
saw no more of them for the rest of the afternoon.
Thompson came up and began to joke me about
my conquest over the old lady, but finding me full
of thought, he had the good sense to leave me
alone after awhile. The manner in which the old

lady had opened her mind to me set my thoughts
flowing in a new channel altogether, and I stood
for I don't know how long a while leaning over the
rail, with my eyes upon the water and my brain
whirring like the machinery in a locomotive factory,
until I believe the people forward imagined I was
sea-sick. We were sailing a good ten knots an
hour, and before I left the deck the darkness had
closed around and away over the starboard bow ;
distant maybe seventeen miles was Portland High
Light, a mere spark, but the sight of it made
me reckon that if this wind held we should be
on with the Start before midnight, and that the
Sallies would be on our quarter by noon next
day. It was fine sailing, and when the dusk came
along, with a scattering of sharp bright stars
among the high clouds, the ship became a phantom
; and I lingered for five minutes after I had
turned to go below, with my hand on the companion,
to watch the spectral glimmering shadows
piled one atop of the other as they rose, until
coming to the royal you spied nothing but what
might pass for a streak of mist hanging over the
topgallant sails and blowing along with the ship.
There was noble music in the chanting of the bow-wave
as it rolled away from the cutwater, and you
would have fancied that some of the children belonging
to the 'tween-decks had clambered aloft,
and had broken out into singing for joy of the

wonder of the sight of the stars that looked to lie
close to the towering masthead, had you heard
the strains that poured down from the shadowy
fabric on high and the flute-like whistling of the
wind as it swept through the hundred ropes of all
sizes which ran taut from the ship into the gloom
over her.

CHAPTER XII.

HALF A GALE OF WIND.

When I left the deck and entered the lighted cuddy,
I forgot all about the wonderful evening picture,
and thought only of Florence and the score of
matters I had in ray mind to say to her ; and
mighty pleased was I when, on everybody being
seated, I peered past the captain and found Aunt
Damaris' place vacant.

She complains of a headache," said Florence ;
I think you made her walk too much."

I am sorry that her head aches, but I'm
glad she's not at table," said I. " Her absence
enables me to be fluent, and I want to tell you
what our talk was about."

Oh, she has told me everything," exclaimed
Florence, laughing. " Don't you think her a rather
strange person ? "

Well, rather," I replied. " But, for all that, I
fancy I could like her if she would let me. She
called Jack Sermon, it is true, a vulgar insulting

person : but that, my darling, is because she doesn't
know what a charming creature he is."

"Are you sure of that?" said Florence, giving
me the chance of a peep into her eyes, the depth of
whose pure sweet beauty I was always on the lookout
to sound. " Let me tell you she considers Mr.
Egerton a most gentlemanly young man, refreshingly
una£fected,'yet with something very thorough -
bred about him too, and a real treat to talk to
after Mr. Morecombe. I am using her own words,
Jack."

You must be joking ! " cried I, on the broad
grin.

Indeed I am not," she answered. " You
appear to have won her heart. But dear me !
what will she say when she discovers who you
are ? " and a delightful air of puzzlement came
over her face as she mechanically glanced along the
table at the people who were talking and laughing
as they gobbled over the plates the stewards put
before them.

I have been turning that point over in my
mind," said I, " and the conclusion I have arrived
at is that your aunt ought not to know who I am.
If there is a chance of her liking me as Mr. Egerton,
then what is to stop me from making her affectionate
by paying her all the attention she will allow
me to bestow on her ? Then when the mask is
dropped at last she will be too fond of me as a man

to bother over the name I go by. Do you see that,

my pet ? She shall think me in love with her
for the sweetness of her disposition. I'll overwhelm
her. Those old ladies are wonderfully
credulous. Nothing to do but to eye them pensively,
and forthwith they go and buy new caps."

What's the joke, Miss Hawke ? " asked Thompson,
hearing my sweetheart's laughter. " Jack
making fun of somebody, I'll wager. He's too
much of a monopolist to suit my book. He
engrosses all your attention and gives me no
chance to edge in a word. Talk of concealing his
feelings ! of misleading all these ladies and gentlemen
and Miss Damaris Hawke ! Why, the workings
of his heart might be watched from the flying
jibboom end."

Though he spoke low, it was nevertheless terribly
alarming to hear him joke in this fashion, for his
voice was by no means melodious, and even .his
whispers had something of the sound of a straining
timber in them ; so I gave him an imploring look
along with a glance at Florence (who was smiling
with a little confusion in her expression) as if to
entreat him to spare me for her sake. But if I
had felt the necessity of behaving with caution
before the passengers, I should certainly not have
stood in need of a hint from him. The truth is
I had made up my mind not to let the suspicions
or curiosity of the cuddy folk hinder my courtship.

I had no intention of suppressing my love for
Florence when others were by, and it was a
question very shortly to be settled whether indeed
I should think it worth while to conceal my passion
even when Aunt Damaris was looking on.
However, Thompson was not to be put off; lie
insisted upon conversing with Florence ; whereupon
I talked to Mrs. Grant, who sat at the after-end
of the length-wise table nearest ours, but I was
soon deep in whispers with Florence again. She
told me that after I left them her aunt had indulged
in a number of surmises respecting my birth, connections,
and social position, and that when she had
done extolling me she fell again upon Mr. More-combe,
denounced him as an impostor, said that
there never could have been an atom of affection
in him for Florence, seeing how glad he appeared
amid his drunkenness to leave the ship, and referred
again in a great passion to the young fellow's
comparison of the Stratford to a rat-trap. She
was mortified and disgusted in all ways, Florence
said ; by the idea that he had given me the whole
story of his relations with the Hawkes, by his
withdrawal from the ship and the ignominious
failure of Mr. Hawke's scheme, by his going away
drunk amid the scorn and laughter of the passengers
; and her dislike and indignation were
increased by the conviction that, had he remained
in the vessel, he would in due course have told all

hands, from the cuddy to the forecastle-why he
was in the ship, and why he was making the
voyage to Australia. " And best, or worst of all,
Jack," said Florence, " is m} T aunt's fear that the
passengers will guess that we knew Mr. Morecombe
before he joined the vessel, so horrified was she by
his being intoxicated and everybody jeering him."

Does she not commend your good sense in
having refused him now that she professes to have
found out what a poor creature he is? "

I don't want her commendations. She is
heartily welcome to go on abusing Mr. Morecombe
as long as she pleases, but the moment she couples
my name with his or connects me in any way with
his wretched attempt to make a voyage to Australia,
I beg her to cease, and she does, Jack"'

Would you be angry if she coupled your name
with mine ? "

No," she answered : "why do you ask ? In the
hope that I should reply yes ? "

Oh, my darling, never wonder at any questions
I ask you ! Nothing ought to surprise you in me —
no, not even if you should catch me dancing on
my head. Are you not enough to turn my brains ?
Every look you give me with your beautiful eyes
robs me of something of my wits. Only the other
day I met you for the first time in my uncle's house
at Clifton, old Flora at your feet. I fell in love
with you plump; ay, Florence, it was the completes!

header mortal man ever took. Well, sweet and
amiable as you always were, I hardly dared think
of you, so immeasurably remote did your father's
behaviour cause you to seem to me. And now,
after weeks of horrible fears, here we are together ;
here am I calling you my darling, and although
you have never yet told me that you love me, yet
don't I know that you do ; don't I know that your
darling heart is mine — ay, as we stand now on the
very threshold of our long voyage, though I never
dared dream that I should have wholly won your
heart until the Australian coast was some thousands
of miles nearer than it is at present."

Well, she coquetted a little : she whispered that
I was a very conceited person to conclude that
she was in love with me ; certainly she liked me
very much, indeed she had liked me from the hour
of our first meeting, and she was glad I was in the
ship, and that her aunt had praised me ; but was I
quite sure that she had given me her heart ? — and
as she asked this she looked up at me with eyes so
fond that the temptation to kiss the beautiful loving
face that shone within an easy stretch of my lips
was just one of those things which a man must set
his teeth hard together to resist. From time to
time I would catch Mr. and Mrs. Marmaduke
Mortimer eyeing us with smiling approval, whilst
some of the others, particularly Mr. Thompson
Tucker, would direct surprised glances at us, as if

they were very much astonished by the rapid progress
I was making. Hitherto, partly on account
of the motion of the ship, the nausea, the general
sense of bewilderment induced by the novelty of the
surroundings, we had not attracted attention ; but,
as the dinner on this day advanced, it was impossible
not to see that we were detected, that the
passengers were beginning to indulge in silent
surmises, and that the general conclusion would be
(if the truth was concealed) that either Florence and
I were lovers before ever we boarded the Strath/more,
or else she was a most impressionable young lady
to be won in an hour, and I a most wonderfully
smart hand at love-making.

My darling saw all this as plainly as I, but it did
not seem to give her the least trouble. Never lose
sight of one thing, lads : the whole job was a
romance that any girl would enjoy. Florence was
the heroine of the performance ; all that was happening
was a tribute to her ; two young men had pursued
her to sea, and she would know very well that, if the
full story were to be related to the passengers, the
only effect it could produce would be to make her
an object of great sentimental interest on board the
ship. It was altogether different with Aunt Darna-
ris. If the part the had played were to become
known, why, all hands would be triumphing and
laughing over the failure of the plot ; and claiming
to be a sensitive woman, and being in a ship full of

people whom she could not quit her cabin without
encountering, why, you see, she would be just as
eager for secrecy as my darling was indifferent to
discovery. So that is how matters stood on that
evening of September 30th, Portland High Light
being visible on the starboard beam, and the ship
sailing a bold ten knots an hour with her jibboom
pointing west by north for the Atlantic Ocean.

The weather was fine when I turned in at eleven
o'clock, after having stumped the poop for near
upon an hour, in company with Daniel and Captain
Jackson, who had seen some service in his youth
and had a memory well stocked with yarns of the
navy as we know it in Marryat's books, and who
proved to be a very decent companion when he was
not grumbling. The fore and mizzen royal and
flying jib had been taken in, but all else was held
on with, and the wind coming with a rush across
the black water drove full into the immense squares
of canvas that soared up in the gloom, and heeled
the ship channels under. She was going through
it like a steamer ; — indeed there were few steamers
afloat at that time which could have held their own
with her in that strong, steady breeze and smooth
water. You could hear the stem ripping through
it forward in a kind of crunching sound that came
along aft with the noise of the wash of the surge
thrown up ; and, now and again, when an extra
puff gave a sharper inclination to the pallid spaces

overhead, you would see the white water shoot
inboard through the scupper holes ; while looking
down at it from the poop, the rail of the maindeck
bulwarks seemed to be flush with the yeasty
smother, so that, let me tell you, it needed genuine
nautical toes to keep a grip of the deck at such
times, for, to leeward, the ebony water, with here and
there a gleam of froth on it, appeared to start from
the top of the line of hencoops and run right up
among the windy stars which flickered wan and small
among the driving clouds vanishing in the south.

Amid the humming and trembling of the rushing
ship, every hanging thing at an angle of 33° with
the deck, as I allowed, I turned in and lay for
perhaps half an hour thinking of Florence and
Aunt Damaris and how this voyage was to end ;
wondering whether Florence would marry me in
Sydney, or force me to wait until she had her
father's consent, and if he ever would consent, and
if not what Florence would do, until I fell asleep to
the lullaby of the hissing and streaming of water
alongside, and the jar and croak and groan and
complaint of timber and panel strained in their
strong fastenings by the enormous leverage aloft.
Soundly I must have slept, as I afterwards came to
know, for when I awoke there was half a gale of
wind blowing, and all hands had been on deck clean
throughout the middle watch — that is, from midnight
until four — shortening sail. Yet I had heard

nothing ! Coils of rope had been flung down, receptacles,
clew lines, and outlines manned, halliards
let go amid hoarse songs and a tramping of feet and
orders bawled out with hurricane lungs — in vain !
The gale was news to me when I awoke at eight
o'clock next morning, though it had been blowing
since midnight.

It was a job to dress, for the jumping of the ship
made me sprawl about horribly, and, though I
flatter myself that my sea-legs were as good as
any man's aboard the Stratford, yet thrice did I
plump down upon my nose before I succeeded in
shipping all that I required to render me fit to be
seen on deck. The first thing I did was to look
aloft and note how the yards were braced, and
found them pretty nearly square. That was the
main point ; anything but a head wind in the
Chops : and here were we swarming along under
close-reefed topsails and reefed foresail with the
staysail swagging in the calm beyond with a hard
blow of the sheet against the forestry, and then a
rounding out of the cloths to the yaw and swing of
the driving ship, a small hurricane of brilliant wind
pouring into us betwixt the starboard after quarter-boat
and the mainbrace bumpkin, and a heavy sea
coming after us like cliffs ; walls of water almost,
up and down, green-ridged and sparkling with
spray, swept along, and half-obscuring them as a
bride's veil conceals the beauty it covers.

This will do, thought I, if it only holds as it is.
So long as we could run before it there was nothing
to complain of. I had a bit of a job to scramble
out of the companion, for the wind came hard
enough to leave you well content to hold on for a
minute or two, without striving to make head
against it. There were two men at the wheel in
yellow oilskins, and the set faces that looked out of
their southwestern gleamed with sweat. Hard work
I knew it must be to steer that flying ship, with a
heavy sea on the quarter that kept her head as wild
as a swing, and the helm was grinding up and
down, just as you may notice a coachman whirling
a carriage wheel when washing it. The pitching
of the ship was a real sensation. You'd see her
bows swooping down to the base of the glittering
green arch that was rolling away ahead of her until
her forecastle deck looked as flat as a floating
saucer upon the water, whilst the foam was flying
like wool out through the headlands, and the sea
beyond stood up like the side of a hill ; and then
down would go the stern of the vessel as the surge
that ran roaring under and past her, swelling nearly
as high as the bulwark rail and giving her the
while a mighty lurch, left its hollow for the ship's
counter to sink in ; and up with a noble majestic
motion would soar the bows, until the crest of the
sea slipped away from under the forefoot, and left
the gale to blow the huge fabric with a long floating

VOL. 'I. y

roaring sweep down the weltering slant of the dark
and thunderous trough.

We were making noble progress, and our wake
danced away into the bluish haze miles astern like
the white dust of a road passing over hills. The
sea was fuller of life than ever I can remember
seeing it, for there was a constant flash of sunshine
among the clouds to give a splendour as of shining
emerald to the billows in places and a startling
glory of prismatic white to the foam ; so that what
with these irradiations, and the whirling olive-coloured
shadows of the clouds, and the varying
tint of the surges which changed from dark to light
green as they swept along and shifted their forms,
the ocean to the very confines where the horizon
resembled a line of mountains seemed to be one
vast surface of leaping and rolling colours. You
must be in a sailing ship to enjoy a gale of wind.
She lets you feel the genius, the spirit of the wild
disturbance. In a steamer you have the alliance of
a power that neutralizes the thrilling inspirations
of the conflict. The champing of the engines
vibrates through the shriek of the blast, and the
sense of mechanism makes the battle inglorious to
the feelings. But in a sailing ship you ride the
whirlwind, if you do not direct the storm. The life
of the vessel is due to the mighty power she grapples
with and influences to her own existence. She
strips like a pugilist to the encounter, and whatever

delight is born of such defiance of enormous force
as is illustrated by a vessel lying-to with her head
to the mountainous billows and looking up into the
eye of the hurricane, or of such audacious appropriation
of the titanic power of the elements as a
ship's arrow-like speeding before the gale conveys,
comes from the sailing vessel alone.

If ever this thought was strong in me, it was so
that morning when I stood against [the weather
mizz en-rigging watching the action of the plunging
ship and the dazzling masses of foam thrown
from her bows and her grand domination of the
ridged and hissing brows of the huge seas which
rolled transversely under her, and listening to the
whistling and screaming of the wind aloft where
the close-reefed canvas was pulling at its sheets
as if it would crack in halves the solid yards
which stretched them, whilst the very latest lines
of the running gear were blown out into semicircles,
and the foot of the reefed foresail stood
up under the forestry in an arch that one moment
framed nothing but the huge green undulations
over the rail, and the next nothing but the sky of
the lee horizon where the driven clouds lay thick
before the howling wind.

Well, my lads, for three blessed days and nights
did this strong wind blow, with a bit of a lull now
and again that never gave the officer of the watch
time to shake out a reef, and a shifting of four

points only, coming back to its place before it
blew itself out. The sailors liked it, you may
take my word, for it gave them a fair watch
below and little enough to do when on deck:
and if ever a sea-blessing rumbled forward, you
may safely bet it was to be heard in the galley
where the rolling and the pitching set the cook
and his mate scalding their dainty hands, and
made every successful cuddy meal a notable feat.
I pitied the 'tween-deck passengers, for the tarpaulins
were over the main-hatch gratings and
there was no ventilation for them save by the
booby-hatch, through which no daylight was
visible until you stood chock under it and looked
up at the break of the poop ; and my old experiences
of what would be doing down there were
lively enough to save me the need of a peep to
realize the sense of sliding chests and clattering
tin dishes and pannikins, and crying children
and bewildered women, pell-mell in the twilight
of the dim oil lamp that swung heavily from a
beam.

I am not going to tell you that this was a
whole gale of wind, though maybe I am making
it seem so : had it been that, the deep ship could
never have run before it; we should have hove-to
and lay tossing about with a drift to the southward
instead of bowling out our fair twelve-geographical
miles and making a run in every

twenty-four hours of those three days equal to
hard upon five parallels. But nevertheless it was
violent weather ; talking was difficult at table or
anywhere else, and for that reason nothing of
moment unless it were a look or two passed
between Florence and me. On the third day,
however, of this noisy blowing, I was passing
through the cuddy in the afternoon when I saw
Aunt Damans and my darling seated on a
cushioned locker near the piano. I clawed my
way over to them, and asked the old lady if she
would like to see the ocean. " It's a fine sight," I
shouted; " I'll engage to hand you safely through
the companion."

"Very much obliged, Mr. Egerton," she
answered, the saw-like notes in her voice making
her speech clear enough : " I have no wish to lose
the little hair that time has spared me."

You ought not to let this gale blow itself away
without taking a look at it," said I.

I have no doubt it is very fine," she replied,
but I prefer to remain under shelter. Pray don't
suppose that I have no conception of the height of
the sea. You should go and sit in our cabin ! I
was never whirled about like this when coming
to England, not even off Cape Horn."

Stern cabins are a mistake, madam," cried I.
Whatever movement there is in the ship you get
the most of there ; not to speak of the grinding of

the wheel-chains over your head and the jar of the
rudder."

Quite true, Mr. Egerton ; you appear to know
all about it. Positively one would suppose that
you had been a sailor," she bawled, with her eyes,
that were close set in her face, fixed upon me.

Oh," shouted I, noticing the smile that came
and went over Florence's face like a touch of the
sunlight on the rolling snow outside, "every landsman
knows that the wheel is over the stern cabins
and that the rudder is in the water under it."

You are used to the sea as a yachtsman,
perhaps ? " she exclaimed. " No person unaccustomed
to the motion of a ship could move
about as you do. Only half an hour ago Mr.
Thompson Tucker was dashed down on the deck
when leaving his cabin, and was very glad to
regain it, I assure you."

I had no objection to her thinking that I knew
the sea as a yachtsman, for it would probably bethe
only form of sailoring she would think genteel,
so I blandly smiled in her face, and turning to
Florence sang out, " Since your aunt will not trust
herself on deck, may I have the pleasure of taking
you there ? "

"lam afraid I shall be blown overboard," she
answered, piping out the clear music of her notes
nobly.

"Have no fear," said I. "You will enjoy the

scene, and the wind will refresh you after your
confinement in the cabin."

Aunt Damaris made no objection, which surprised
me exceedingly. My darling raised her
beautiful eyes to the skylight, and after a moment's
hesitation consented to accompany me. She had
to go to her cabin first for her jacket and headgear,
and I handed her to the door of it, squeezing
her little fingers tenderly during our progress as
you may reckon, and whilst she equipped herself
I took her place at Aunt Damaris' side. " I am
exceedingly sorry," I called out in her ear, putting
all the amiability and sympathy I could pack into
the strong voice I was forced to exert, u that the
motion of the ship should inconvenience you in
your cabin. Mine is very much at your service,
if you would like to use it. It has two bed-places ;
Mr. Morecombe had one of them."

"Oh, you are very obliging ; but no, thanks, we
will stop where we are," she answered. "Pray
don't mention Mr. Morecoinbe's name; he has quite
gone out of my head, I assure you, and I don't
want to be reminded that he has an existence."

I bowed to signify obedience, or at least 1 made
the best job I could of a bow under those tossing
and rolling conditions, and then congratulated her
upon her appearance, telling her that I had been
afraid her health would suffer from her imprisonment
below. "But I am glad to see," said I,

viewing her earnestly, " that that has not been
the case ; doctors say that the sea air makes
people live long, but my notion is that it makes
people look young. There is nothing like it for
brightening the eyes and purifying the complexion."


She would have been more than human, indeed
she would have had to be an angel instead of an
old maid, not to have been sensible of this piece
of flattery, which I reckon on the whole was
pretty neatly administered, considering what a
green hand I was at such work. You would have
perceived the Eve in her old lean bony composition
stirring under the compliment and warming
into a smile, faint indeed, because, you see, she
was an elderly lady, and would suck a lollipop of
this kind cautiously, making pretend that she had
nothing in her mouth. Just then Florence came
out of her cabin, and I sprang forward to give
her my hand, for superbly as she would poise
her lovely figure to the motion of the sea, here
was a deck quite impracticable to any woman's
feet, even though they should have twinkled under
the gauze of la premiere danseuse de la monde,
whatever her name might be.

Be very careful," squealed Aunt Damaris.

■' Have no fear, madam ! " I shouted : and
leaving the old lady to think what she pleased of
my behaviour, I passed my arm under my sweetheart's,

linking the darling firmly to me thus,
and helped her up the companion steps. The
moment her dear little nose was above the companion,
she put her hand to it as if she thought
it had been blown off her face. She struggled
for breath, dragged at me as if to descend the steps
again; but I was not going to lose her. The
privilege of having my darling alone with me was
so great that I looked about to see how we might
obtain shelter for a half-hour's quiet talk. The
wind blew screaming betwixt the rail and the keel
of the quarter-boat griped at the davits, and was
unbearable. The gale was on the quarter, and
blew right along the poop, and there was no shelter
to be got this side the maindeck, where the sight
the sea offered would be an imperfect show. This
was a confounded nuisance, but could not be
helped. Had the wind been right abeam, why, a
square of canvas in the mizzen-rigging would have
made a summer-house, with the hencoop for a seat,
and the fowls talking to themselves at our heels ;
but a wind blowing over a quarter gallery might as
well be sweeping through the spokes of the wheel
for all the shelter a poop will yield you ; so there
was nothing to do but carry my pet to the mizzen-mast,
and station her against it and myself alongside
of her. There was some little protection here;
but the wind raved as it cut itself in halves against
the great spar and united t'other side with a

screeching whistle, and our ears were so full of the
infernal piping that love-making would have been
an easier job in the forecastle, with the watch
below snoring at the top of their throats, and every
timber and every plank in the bows groaning as
they parted the swelling tons of water.

Shipmate, did you ever stand on the deck of
a vessel sweeping over a foaming rolling sea, with
your heart's delight alongside of you ? No ? Well,
if so be you are a single man, and your sweetheart
is agreeable, make the experiment and think of
Jack Seymour. There will be a perfume in the
gale, richer to the taste than the most aromatic
of languid hothouse sweets, a glory in the flying
sunbeam such as never yet dazzled in the most
tropical of the luminary's flashing, a nobleness
and grandeur in the swelling and creaming liquid
acclivities the like of which was never before sensible
to you even in the mightiest of old ocean's
conflicts with the storm-fiend, and such a boundless,
intoxicating, thrilling sense of liberty and
happiness, that upon my word, on second thoughts,
I don't know whether you ought to risk the emotion
unless } T ou are cocksure that your soul is too
strongly built to be blown up by the immense
number of square feet of moral and spiritual ether
which an experience of the kind I am talking about
will sweep into it. Oh, my lads, to look into my
darling's brilliant eyes, all shine with wonder and

awe and delight, and turn from them to the wild
picture of hurling waters and flying ship and rushing
sky, was to behold such a meaning and spirit
in the splendid stirring scene that the ocean
seemed a new thing to me, the great commotion of
the gale a revelation.

Chapter XIII.

I SAVE A CHILD'S LIFE.

It is not always blowing at sea, whatever ladies
may think, though to be sure I have known a ship
leave Adelaide and carry a storm with her from
abreast of Cape Horn to Ushant, when, after a
hundred and forty days of grinding and tossing,
there fell a calm with light baffling breezes from
the eastward which kept her groping about the
Chops until passengers and crew made up their
minds that the tormented hooker they were aboard
of was just the Flying Dutchman that was doomed
never to reach her destination. Nevertheless, it is
not always blowing at sea, a mercy sailor men are
grateful for ; and with us it happened that the
gale, which had swept us south a distance of eight
hundred miles in seventy-two hours, expired when
the last of those hours had come round, and left
us rolling in a dead calm on the verge of the Horse
latitudes. We were in warmer weather now, and
the sun climbed up over the calm, very hot indeed,

with a sea like heaving quicksilver shot with scores
of colours, as a daguerreotype plate is when you
slant it about to the light. I remember that
particular forenoon well, though we had many
others like it. The awning was spread over the
poop, and the blue sky between it and the rail
made a frame whose tender azure was here and
there piebald with lumps of white cloud, one
peering over another like a lot of bald-headed
giants forking up over the sea-line. The ship had
spread every stitch of plain sail belonging to her to
catch the tittering of air that crept along the
water, blurring the polished folds with streaks that
had a look of ice in the distance ; and she was
managing to sneak along fast enough to leave a few
holes in the sea under her counter, and to keep her
course stead* at the lubber's point, allowing for the
swing of the swell. Everybody, save the watch
below, was on deck ; and it was enough to make a
man thoughtful to stand at the break of the poop,
and to turn his eyes forward and then aft and
observe what a mob of people were being kept alive
by nothing more than a few caulked planks. The
steerage and 'tween-deck passengers filled the
quarter and main decks and forecastle; they walked
about in pairs or conversed in groups, or sat sunning
themselves in the ardent beams to the enjoyment
of which they would bring a particular relish after
their long confinement to the gloom and noise and

bewildering motion below ; the children played in
the scuppers, thoughtful faces looked into the
wonderful ocean distance as if seeking to create
upon the remote and polished line some image of
the Pacific shores, whither they were bound in
search of bread if not of fortune, whilst sailors
were at work aloft on jobs it would be idle to
describe, and a spun-yarn winch was rattling on
the forecastle, and the sail maker and his mates
flourished their shining needles and tarry twine
over some stretch of fore and aft canvas.

The cuddy passengers were scattered over the
poop, Captain Jackson and his wife in American
arm-chairs with books in their hands, Thompson
Tucker on his back on a hen-coop, a cigar in
his mouth, and his head in a coil of rope,
Mrs. Grant and her daughter knitting or doing
some work of that kind, and the Joyce children —
pretty little infants, one a boy, with long fair curls
down their backs, and blue eyes, all as like one
another as peas are or eggs— playing bopeep round
the compass stand before the foremost skylight.
Aunt Damaris and Florence were on chairs near the
mizzen mast, the former looking at the sea with her
listened hands locked upon her lap, and my
darling reading some book from which every now
and again she would hft her eyes and steal a
peep at me, who walked quietly too and fro past
her with the chief officer, Mr. Thornton. Presently

Captain Jackson yawned loudly, got out of his
chair, and joined us.

"What's the weather going to be like, can you
guess, Mr. Thornton ? " said he. " Is there any
sign to be found in this westerly swell ? "

"I don't think it means anything, sir," replied
the chief mate.

It was just hereabouts," said the navy man, in
his loud voice, and taking all hands within reach
of his notes into his confidence, as his way was,
"that a thunderstorm magnetized the compass
of his Britannic Majesty's ship Wren, in which I
was then a midshipman. It came on as black as
my hat, though the daylight was abroad, being
four o'clock of the afternoon, and there whizzed
out of the mud overhead such a flash of lightning
as never saw I the like of since. It put the whole
sea on fire, sir ; it was as if all creation had been
plunged into the infernal regions. Well, when
the thunder was gone, and it must have taken a
long five minutes for the echo of that crashing boom
to roll away out of hearing over the slippery
smoothness — not a breath, mind you — we saw the
binnacle card spinning round like a teetotum.
Its sensibility was killed, sir. It was never afterwards
worth a dump. Fortunately, we had a spare
compass on board, or we should have had to steer
by the stars, of which, by the way, we never obtained
a glimpse, for it came on thick that night and

remained so a whole fortnight." And our friend
looked triumphantly around him as he usually did
when he spun a marine yarn, just as though no
experience that ever befell him was to he matched
by what anybody else had seen or suffered. It
was never my policy at that time to appear to
have any knowledge of-the nautical calling, otherwise
I should have liked to tell Captain Jackson
that the effect of his thunderstorm was not so
extraordinarily uncommon as he supposed, I myself
having been in a ship during a magnetic outburst
which reversed the poles of the compass, so that
when the officer of the watch went to see how the
vessel was heading he could not believe his eyes ;
the compass pointed north by east, and our course
was south by west. There was a regular outcry ;
the man at the wheel was abused, and he swore he
had never shifted the helm ; the sailors thought the
ship bewitched, for did any one hear of a ship
suddenly shewing around sixteen points without
anybody taking notice of the change, the vessel
having steerage way at the time ? The cause was
discovered after a bit, but the general consternation
was very fine whilst it lasted.

Strange things happen at sea," said Mr.
Thornton; "I was once in a ship that sprung a
leak, and how do you think it was caused ? Why,
by the sounding-rod, sir. We had tried the pump-well
so often that, hang me, Captain Jackson, if

at last the rod bad not passed slick through the
ship's bottom."

That's nothing," said Captain Jackson. " If
you're fond of wonders, listen to this. I was in a
ten gun brig, and left Hong Kong for Foochoo. Off
the Basle Islands we had to heave-to in a gale of
wind, and in the middle of the storm we struck
something with such force that all hands thought
we were ashore and must go to pieces. We sounded
without finding bottom, and the land was invisible.
What could it be ? Well, sir, the brig began to
make water, and gangs were sent to the pumps.
We managed to reach Foochoo, and when the
vessel was surveyed, what do you think was
discovered ? Why, sir, that a sword-fish had
pierced the solid oak and sheathing with its sword,
that was three inches in diameter, and had broken
short off, leaving a space of an inch wide on either
side through which the water flowed." And with
that he cast another triumphant look round.

A little of such nautical talk went a long way
with me when Florence was in sight; and our
walk to and fro regularly bringing me abreast of
her and her aunt, I dropped Captain Jackson and
Mr. Thornton, to address myself to the ladies.

"Well, Miss Hawke," said I to the aunt, " here
is fine weather at last, almost perhaps more than
we want. Don't you prefer the last three days
gale to this ? " and I seated myself on the edge of

VOL. II. Pw

the skylight close beside her. Florence closed
her book and looked up at me with a smile.

I like the wind to blow us along," replied
Miss Damans, "but not great waves which
throw one off one's balance and make existence
quite horrible. Pray, Mr. Egerton," sinking her
voice, " what was the chief mate talking to you
about just know, before Captain Jackson joined
you ? "

"About his profession. — about ships."

"Oh, I thought as you passed that I overheard
one of you mention the name of the person who,
as I told you, so far as I am concerned, has no
further existence."

"You mean Mr. Morecombe. I solemnly assure
you that his name was never mentioned ; " and
struggling to think for a moment what could have
made her imagine that the chief mate and I had
been talking about that man, the recollection of a
phrase Thornton had used flashed upon me, and I
burst into a laugh. " I'll tell you what you heard,"
I exclaimed; " the chief officer was contrasting this
ship with another he has sailed in, and said that
her floor had more camber than this — meaning, ashe
explained, that it was higher in the middle than
at the stem and stern ; that's the phrase you must-have
caught and mistaken."

She peered into my face as if she would read me
through, and said, with a deal of acidity in her

voice, " Well, you see I have ears. I don't mind —
indeed I can't help others talking, but you have
given me your word "

And I am keeping it," I exclaimed, flushing
up a bit, for I did not at all relish her utterly
unfounded suspicion.

"Aunt, you are unnecessarily sensitive; I am
surprised that you should question Mr. Egerton's
plain assurance," said Florence, bringing out
Egerton with a little struggle, but speaking with
warmth for all that.

Florence, how dare you ! I am not questioning
Mr. Egerton's plain assurance. I believe what he
says. Mr. Egerton," turning to me and giving mea
very gracious bow of her head, " I fully believe
you, sir, and I beg your pardon if "

Oh, pray, Miss Hawke," I began.

"Unnecessarily sensitive, Florence! " she whipped
out, interrupting me, and rounding again upon her
niece; "how is it possible that } t ou can consider
me so ? Didn't I tell you that that horrid young
man had told Mr. Egerton some odious stories about
us when he was intoxicated — I don't mean you,
Mr. Egerton — dear me ! I am quite fluttered. And
do you think I am unnecessarily sensitive because I
desire that his wicked exaggerations should not be
known to the passengers ; least of all," said she,
lowering yet the rather hoarse whisper in which she
was speaking, and eyeing Captain Jackson grimly

as lie passed by with Thornton, " that dreadful
naval person there, who roars like a bull when he
talks. Do you think me unnecessarily sensitive,
Mr. Egerton ? "

"I do not, madam," I replied, with great emphasis
and just one peep at my darling's eyes which
were upon me; "and I sincerely trust you will
never deem me capable of betraying the trust you
have honoured me with.' ,

No, indeed I have the highest confidence in
your honour as a gentleman," said she, unbending
her manner into the suggestion of a complete
apology. " I hope you will forgive me."

Oh," said I, " you embarrass me — forgive a
lady ! " And I flourished my hand and bowed,
and she bowed, and Florence, who could not
conceal her merriment, dropped her book as an
excuse to hide her face. I saw Mr. Thompson
Tucker staring at us out of his coil of rope. No
doubt he wondered what was making this old lady
and me so deucedly polite to each other.

You talked, Mr. Egerton," said Aunt Damaris,
soothingly and very graciously, "of returning in
this ship. I presume, therefore, you will stay about
three months in Sydney ? "

About that time, I believe," I replied, beginning
to breathe short, for even when she and I were
alone this sort of questions always bothered me
terribly ; but they were scarcely endurable when

Florence was near, for I did not dare venture upon
a fib in my sweetheart's presence.

It will give me much pleasure to see you at my
house when you are in Sydney," said the old lady.

• ; You are extremely good, ' ' I answered. ' i Nothing
will give me more happiness."

•'That's a very long invitation, aunt," said
Florence, laughing.

"Mr. Egerton has been exceedingly polite tome,"
responded Aunt Damaris, "and if there should
be anything colonial in what you call the length of
this invitation, my dear, I hope he will pardon niy
Australian manners."

There was something in the manner in which
she said this that caused my darling to give me
one of those intensely meaning glances which
sweethearts, whether they have beautiful eyes or
not, have a knack of casting at one another. I
had not up to that moment addressed her, nor
could Aunt Damaris have guessed the true state
of our hearts from any single sign between us when
she was present on previous occasions; but it
happened when Florence lifted her eyes to my face
in the manner I have mentioned that her aunt
was looking at her full ; and the effect of it upon
her was shown by the speed with which she
whipped round her sharp old face to stare at me.
I gazed mildly into her greenish eyes until she
removed them to Florence again. Well, thought

I, she'll be stumbling on the truth sooner or later,
and then she'll be finding out who I am, and
then — and I was musing in this fashion, whilst
in the pause that fell upon us I watched the
operation of Florence's intercepted look in the old
maid's mind, noticed it stiffening her as the ideas
it bred increased in number until her face took
the hardness of a ship's figure-head, the thin
under lip tightening into a mere line, and her
sharp nose standing out with a heaving nostril past
the lank sausage curl that embellished her starboard
cheek, when I heard a sudden small plash
over the port side, followed by a woman's long earpiercing
shriek that penetrated from one end of
the ship to the other and came down in a sharp
clear echo out of the sails.

I was too old a hand not to know what the soft
peculiar sound of that plash signified, even though
no yell should have followed to make a horror of
the thing ; I sprang in three bounds on to the hen-coop
abaft the mizzen rigging, and looking oversaw
a child floating with its hands raised upon the
glass-blue surface within a couple of feet of the
ship's side. The vessel, as I have said, had steerage
way upon her, and was moving through the water
at the rate of about a mile and a half or so an hour.
I threw down my hat, and singing out to Thompson,
Pitch me a life-buoy," I jumped into the mizzen
chains and dropped into the sea. I was a fairly

good swimmer., though from want of practice no
hand at a long bout. Slowly as the ship was
moving, and rapid as my movements had been, I
was surprised when I came to the surface to observe
the distance the two little lifted arms — for that was
all I could see — had already dropped astern. I
knew that children drown quickly, and I struck
out with all my strength, taking the exact bearings
of the child's hands by a group of heavy
white clouds on the horizon : and fortunate it was
that I had presence of mind enough to do that
same, for before I reached the spot the child's
arms had disappeared, but I could see the little
body just below the surface quivering in the
refraction of the wonderful translucent azure of
the water, and with a bit of a dive and a quick
grasp I had the bairn's head out of it, and looked
about me for the life-buoy.

There was the circular white thing within a few
kicks of my feet, hove, as I might guess, by a
sailor man, and in a few moments I had it under
my armpits, and the child atop — not dead, heaven
be praised! but nearly choked with the salt water
in it. It was Mrs. Joyce's little girl — one of the
three children that had been playing about the poop
at hide-and-seek. I held her on high, she was buta
feather in my hands, with a slant of the head tolet
the water drain from her throat, and I could hear
cheers and cries rolling in a sort of broadside from

the ship's starboard bulwarks, which were black with
the swarming of sailors and passengers, whilst aft
stood a crowd motioning and shrieking. I tell you it
was strange to hear those sounds coming along the
smooth surface — every note clear as a bell, through
a confusion of hurrahs and hysterical screaming,
and the loud orders of the mate directing the hands,
who were frantically at work in clearing away the
quarter boat ready for lowering, mixed with the
flapping of the canvas beating the masts as the
vessel lifted with the swell and the straining of
spars and the chafe of the running gear.

The ship came round very slowly to the faint
draught that was stirring aloft, and if this had been
my first experience overboard I should have found
something like a new sensation in the sight of the
stretch of water between me and her gleaming hull,
leaning her shapely checkered side out of the
yearning gurgle of the swell until you could see thew
T ater sparkling as it drained down the bends past
the sheathing into the sea. But a man who has
tumbled off a yard-arm into a smother of yeast
and a hollow full of roaring can't be expected to
make much of an adventure overboard in a calm,
with a life-buoy around him and plenty of sunlight
for him to be seen by.

The boat came down into the water with a rattle
and a splash, the oars broke into a silver shining as
they were raised after the first dip, and in a trice

the little girl and I were lifted into her and rowed
alongside the ship. The child was handed up to
twenty pairs of arms extended to receive her, and I,
dripping wet and feeling more like a water-rat thana
man, scrambled into the maintains and so got
aboard. From the mainmast to the cuddy-front
the deck was just a block of people, and there being
plenty of mothers among them, they would have
made some kind of fuss over this very cheap, mild
exploit had I not hurriedly shoved through them on
my way to my cabin, saying in reply to their "Well
done, sir ! " "A mother's blessing on you, young
man ! " " There's the right kind of stuff in you,
sir ! " and the like of such exclamations, " Oh, it's
all right. It's no more than a ducking for either
of us."

And yet, small as the incident was, it was of the
right kind to cause a sensation : it was a break in
the monotony of the sea-life ; then again, no kind
of excitement caused by accident upon the ocean
surpasses the thrill sent through the heart by the
fall of a person overboard, and all the women, and
maybe all the fathers in that ship, would find a
child tumbling into the water much more moving
than had a man taken an involuntary header; and
so combining these points with the electrical effect
of the piercing shriek that followed the accident,
the rush to the side, the shouts and screams of men
and women, I could not be surprised to find the

crowd of 'tween-deck and other passengers very
much stirred and somewhat enthusiastically demonstrative
as I passed through them.

I stripped and dried myself, and was soon completely
dressed, and lighting a cigar stepped through
the cuddy, up the companion ladder, to the poop.
The moment I showed my nose Daniel pounced
upon me: " Jack," cried he, "it was smartly done.
The child owes its life to you. The least delay
would have been fatal, for the child was under when
you reached her." And as he said this up bustled
the passengers, Mrs. O'Brien, full of Irish impulse,
using her elbows that she might force her way to
shake hands with me, Mrs. Jackson jostling Mrs.
Grant, Captain Jackson jamming Thompson Tucker
against Aunt Damaris, Mrs. Marmaduke Mortimer
sobbing as an emotional young wife knows how on
such occasions, and her husband hovering on the
skirts of the others, waiting to catch my eye. It
was what an actor would call an ovation, whatever
that may mean, if it don't signify the pelting a
fellow-creature with rotten eggs, and I was so
exceedingly disconcerted that I was heartily sorry
I hadn't turned in when I stripped myself instead
of coming on deck.

Mr. Egerton," cried Mrs. O'Brien, " ye're a
hero; there's the makings of a three mother in
you, and my blessing' upon you as a widow who has
been a mother herself."

It was a very smart thing, Mr. Egerton, let me
tell you, sir," shouted Captain Jackson. "Had you
been a sailor, you couldn't have shown more
presence of mind."

Mr. Egerton," cried Aunt Damaris, " I must
shake your hand. Your conduct is truly impressive."

I am sure I cannot remember what I mumbled
in reply to these and a dozen other courtesies and
compliments. The smallness of the exploit made
me feel that there is a deal of unconscious irony in
the most generous of human impulses, and I was
sensible of blushing like a girl as I bowed and
wagged my head and begged them to say no more.
But I was not to be let off yet ; for on a sudden I
heard a voice crying out, "where is he ? where is
he *? " and up rushed Mr. Joyce, the others making
way for him, and seizing my hands he endeavoured
to speak, but his voice failed him, and he looked at
me only with the eyes of a man whose heart is full
of tears.

How is she ? " I asked.

Oh ! " he answered in broken tones, " she will
take no harm the doctor thinks. Nothing is to be
feared but the shock to the nervous system. She
is talking to her mother — ' and breaking down, he
called God's blessing on my head in barely articulate
words.

His gratitude was so affecting that for the life of
me I couldn't help a mist creeping over my eyes.

To God bless a man is but a conventional phrase :
but when a father say s the solemn words, when the
blessing of the Almighty is asked for you by a man
whose child's life you have saved, and who speaks
with sobs in his voice and his face made infinitely
affecting by gratitude, the sentence takes a wonderful
significance, you feel there is more in it than
sound, and the memory it gives is something to
linger like a shining light in the mind for many a
long year.

He explained how the accident had befallen.
The forward end of the hen-coops which ran down
either side the poop stopped short within half a
dozen feet or so of the termination of the raised
deck, leaving the rail open : the child had gone
behind the square end of the coop to hide, and the
nurse catching sight of the wee body at the instant
it toppled backwards and overboard, sent up the
wonderful shriek I have mentioned. I should have
imagined that nobody but the mother could have
delivered such a note, but be that as it may,
when Mr. Joyce had explained how the thing had
happened he again grasped my hands as if he
would embrace me, and then hurried below to see
after the little girl.

After a bit the other passengers 'drew off. Of
all those who lived aft the only one who had not
approached me was Florence. She had kept her
seat, though I knew that her eyes were upon me

all the while I stood surrounded by the others.
Aunt Damaris had rejoined her, and seeing this I
stepped up and seated myself on the edge of the
skylight, just where I was before I went overboard,
and addressing the old lady I said, "You were
good enough, Miss Hawke, before our conversation
was interrupted, to give me leave to call upon you
at Sydney "

Oh, how can you talk so coolly ? " exclaimed
Florence. " Do not you know that you have just
saved a little child's life? It was nobly done."
And she put out her hand. I took it and pressed
it, lifting my cap as I did so.

Don't speak of such a thing as that as noble,"
said I. " There was no risk. The sea is calm—
the ship is scarcely moving. I had a life-buoy to
support me. I should be a poor creature if I
could take credit for such a twopenny job as
that."

"You are a very enigmatical person, Mr.
Egerton," said the old lady, eyeing me as if I had
grown three or four feet since my bath. "You
seem to treat the saving of life very lightly, sir.
/ think your conduct wonderful. How you can
come back here and resume the conversation after
an incident that made my very brain reel I cannot
imagine."

Why, Miss Hawke, I so value your kind invitation
that I did not want this little upset to turn

it wholly out of your mind, which might have
happened if I did not take care to recall it."

This little upset ! How can you give the very
near drowning of an infant such a term ? " she
exclaimed. " But perhaps you are used to danger,
sir," eyeing me attentively, and then she said,
doubtfully, " and yet you are too young to have
seen enough to harden your nerves. I need not
ask if you are in the army ? "

"No," said I, feeling confused, "you need not
ask that, }Iiss Hawke."

"Indeed," she went on, scanning me, "you
have much more the look of a sailor than of any
other profession I can imagine. The way in which
you sprang from your seat there as if you knew
exactly what had happened and where the child
had fallen was quite nautical." And she fixed on
me a keen scrutinizing gaze that was barely saved
from grimness by the reverence my behaviour had
excited in her mind.

Well, you are not a sailor, are you ? " said
Florence, smiling and coming to my relief, the
need of which she would perceive in the flush in
my cheeks and my bothered air.

"No, I am not," I replied, which was true
enough, for a man is a sailor only so long ashe
is in the calling.

If you were you would not disown it," she
continued, with a light coming into her eyes and a

proud eager look into her face, as if she wished
me to see her heart and the thoughts of rne in it.
M It is a noble calling, and no higher compliment
could be paid you after what I will call your noble
act, than to say you deserve to be a sailor''

Aunt Damaris twisted her lean face from her tome
and from me to her with the old pecking of the
nose that was like groping for information. At
this moment Mrs. Joyce came up the companion
hatch, and immediately catching sight of me ran
up to me with her arms outstretched, and literally
locked her hands round the back of my neck.

Oh, Mr. Egerton," she cried, sobbing and
crying and looking wildly into my eyes with her
face close to mine, " how am I to thank you for
saving my darling's life ? What am I to say to
you ? " And almost incoherent in her language, as
people violently affected often are, she called me
noble and generous and brave, blessed me again
and again, let go my neck to grasp my hand and
kiss it, and then turned to Aunt Damaris and my
darling — maybe because they happened to be near
and asked them to tell her if I was not the most

courageous But avast ! there is too much

self-praise in all this to make its repetition agreeable
to me, though having a yarn to relate I must
tell you what happened in it.

Moving as the father's thanks were, the mother's
went much deeper into my heart. I heard a sound

of sobbing behind me, and afterwards learned that
it proceeded from Mrs. Marmaduke Mortimer,
whilst the tears stood in Florence's eyes and Aunt
Damaris hung her head.

"He thinks nothing of the action," said the old
lady, when Mrs. Joyce had ceased. " We were
conversing before he jumped into the water, and no
sooner has he changed his clothes than he comes
back and goes on talking as if saving a child's life
were no more than catching a fly."

Nevertheless, Mrs. Joyce," said I, "I thank
God for the privilege of preserving you from a
great grief. Tell me now how the little darling
does."

Oh, very much better than we had dared
hope," she answered. "I do not think there is
anything to fear from the shock to the system, as
she is almost too young to suffer in that way. She
has asked to see you and give you a kiss ? Will
you come down to her ? "

Assuredly," I replied, and I followed her to the
cabin occupied by the nurse and the three bairns.
The father and Mr. Griffith were there — the other
children and the nurse being in the parents' cabin
and the child lay in the top bunk under the
scuttle, snug in the sheets and her fair hair covering
the pillow. Mates, did any of you ever save
the life of a fellow-being ? If so you'll know what
sort of feeling comes into one when one stands

and looks at the living face ' and the grateful eyes,
and hears the low notes of thanks, half-checked by
overwhelming emotion, which but for one's action,
be it great or little, would be white and dead and
still. The name of this little girl was Lily — and
a flower of that kind she looked, a bud rather, with
the sunshine of her hair upon her.

My darling," said I, bending over her, " I
know the doctor does not want you to speak. I
have come to give you a kiss, and to tell you that
tomorrow you will be able to get up — at least I
hope so — and run about the deck again : only you
and your brothers must mind never to go near the
edge of the ship, for it is not good for little boys
and girls to tumble into the sea."

And so saying I kissed her tiny mouth and
passed my hand over her hair and drew away.
The father and mother were crying — and to speak
the truth, my lads, so was I : at least there were
tears in my eyes. But I whisked them off, and
after exchanging a few words with the doctor and
receiving another outpouring of fervent thanks
from Mr. and Mrs. Joyce, I withdrew to my own
cabin to stretch my back in my bunk until lunchtime,
thinking that I had best not put myself too
much in Florence's company when Aunt Damaris
was alongside until my pet and I had settled upon
some definite line of policy.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XIV.

FLORENCE CONFESSES.

It does not take much to make a hero of a man
(for a few hours) on board a ship, where there's
nothing to talk about except the rate of speed, and
what's for dinner to-day; and so at lunch I found
myself a conspicuous figure, the ladies smiling at
me, the gentlemen begging the honour of taking
wine with me (the custom was not yet dead)
whilst the stewards favoured me with their best
attention. Florence as usual sat betwixt me and
the captain, Aunt Damaris having up to this time
made no objection ; but the meal was very nearly
over before I could manage to tackle her in one
of our quiet, half-whispered talks, for now that
Griffith had said that the child was doing very
well (Mr. and Mrs. Joyce being absent from the
table) the passengers felt at liberty to talk freely
about the accident and to ask me questions, such
as how I had managed not to hurt myself by
jumping into the water (this was Mrs. O'Brien's),
and how I managed to keep myself afloat in my

clothes., whilst Captain Jackson exclaimed that if
he hadn't known me to be a landsman by the
questions I had asked the pilot, he should have
supposed I was a sailor: "by one circumstance I
took notice of, sir, and that was your having taken
the bearings of the infant; for she had vanished
before you reached the spot, and if you hadn't
fixed her locality by some object — a cloud I take
ir, for there was nothing else — why, then, all I
can say is, little Missy Joyce would have been at
the bottom of the ocean by this time."

The ladies shuddered, and Daniel pointed to the
Joycess' cabin, with a grimace at the navy man.
But the subject was too fascinating to be dropped.
Mrs. O'Brien remembered the narrow escape of
her little brother from drowning in the Liffey ;
Mr. Thompson Tucker knew a man who was a
cousin of a fellow who had saved a barges's life by
heaving an open umbrella to him ; and Captain
Jackson had some remarkable stories to relate of
Navigating Lieutenant Jones who jumped overboard
in a heavy gale of wind and saved a marine
who had tumbled over the side in a drunken fit,
and of Master's Assistant Smith who had drowned
a purser's mate in a squall by heroically jumping
right on top of him when he was in the water, in
the manly effort to save his life : to all of which
I was bound in courtesy to listen.

However, when at last the conversation

slackened, Florence said to me, "You don't seem
to care what I think of your conduct, Jack."

"You may be sure of that, my darling," said I
with fine irony ; " you know that your opinion is of
no consequence to me at all."

Well," she continued, smiling, " whether you
care about my opinion or not, I will tell you this,
you ought to be proud of what you have done. It
is a glorious thing to save a life."

"So it is, Florence, but we'll say no more about
it, my pet. The child is rescued, is well, and there's
an end. I have something more serious to talk
to you about. Only, confound it, with your aunt
making a fender of the skipper's elbow t'other
side there, talking seriously is almost impossible.
If Mrs. O'Brien looks, Miss Damaris will look, and
if she looks she'll see."

First, what is a fender, Jack ? " asked Florence,
giving me my name now very easily, and with a
distinct relish in the utterance.

"Why," said I, " something that you put over a
ship's side to prevent it from being chafed."

"I am no wiser," she exclaimed. "But never
mind. What is it that you want to talk to me
seriously about ? " and .she peered at me with one
of those coquettish glances which in most girls
never fail to set a man's heart galloping.

"How can you ask?" whispered I. "I have
told you I love you — have I not, Florence ? "

She pretended to look for something between her
and Daniel.

"Answer me, my sweetest girl," said I, whispering
always.

*• Yes, you have' she replied, giving me a view
of her left cheek that was full of colour.

"And do you know'' said I, "that you have
never yet told me that you love me?"

"Oh, don't talk to me in that way — here," she
exclaimed, with her eyes on the tablecloth. " I
am sure Captain Thompson hears you, and Mrs.
Mannaduke Mortimer is staring so hard."

I peered at Daniel, but he had his shoulder
towards us and was chattering briskly with Aunt
Damaris. " Am I never to be alone with 3*011,
Florence ? " I whispered. " It is fearfully hard to
pretend not to care about you, and I have to do
that when we're not alone. Can't you manage to
come on deck this evening for a little walk with
me : you gave me to hope you would not allow
your aunt to have her own way altogether with
you."

If it is fine I will see," said she.

It will be fine," said I. " Come up to breathe
the fresh air ; say at half-past eight. I have much
to talk to you about."

She let me know she consented, though without
speaking. Soon after this we left the table and I
went on deck, where I found the ship sailing with

a wind blowing over the taffrail, topmast and
topgallant-stunsails aloft, the mainsail hauled up
and all the canvas from the royal down swinging
in and out as the vessel curtsied on the following
swell, beating the masts with a pendulum-like
movement and a sharp drumming of reef-points.
When you looked over the side it was like gazing
into the sky, so rich, limpid, profound was the
blue of the water, and there was a kittenish
playfulness in the tiny surges which ran along with
us for the space of a breath and then dissolved in
silver. Northwards, whence the wind was blowing,
the ocean was an indigo blue, sloping and rounding
against the lighter heaven with the clear configuration
of a swelling space of pasture land : but
this most beautiful colour grew paler as the sweep
of the sea-line took it east and west towards the
south, where the little clouds which passed over
our masthead seemed to be waiting as if like a
flock of sheep they had found their pen down there ;
whilst the hot white sun shining a little way on
the right of them, put the brilliance of snow
upon them for the sea beneath to reflect, so that
over either bathed the water ran away from the
cutwater in an azure that fined down into a kind
of satirist grey upon the horizon, making such a
contrast of the ocean blue deepening as it drew
upon our quarters that I have no words to express
the beauty of the sight.

Well, inmost uneventfully the afternoon passed:
I lounged, smoked, conversed with first one and
then another, inquired after little Lily Joyce, took
a few turns with the father, and so killed the
afternoon. Aunt Damaris and Florence came on
deck for a while, but some of the other passengers
gathered about them, there was no room for me,
and no chance if there had been room to do more
than carry on the humbugging masquerade of which,
though we were not yet a week out, the obligation
was beginning to eat into my soul ; and so I stuck
to the forward end of the poop, always thinking
and plotting and scheming when I was alone, and
wondering if ever I should have the luck to win
the consent of that darling there to be my wife,
and in what fashion our marriage was to be brought
about. I happened to be delayed a few minutes
after the second dinner-bell rang : and when I
entered the cuddy everybody was seated, two of the
usual lot only, Mrs. Joyce and her daughter, being
absent. Mr. Joyce stood up as I passed him, as if
I were the Prince of Wales, and grasped my hand
afresh. This would not have confused me alone,
but coming as it might be right athwart the
discovery that I had already made, namely that
Aunt Damaris was in the seat hitherto occupied by
Florence whilst she was on Daniel's right, I was
thrown right into the wind by it, coloured,
stammered, asked after the child in a foolish way,

and then pushed on, coming to a stand at the portend
of the tlrwartship table.

There was a vacant place next to Florence, and I
might have taken it, but besides that this deliberate
mooring alongside my darling would have struck
all hands as a very significant piece of behaviour,
it would have been clearly an act of rudeness to
decline what I was bound to regard as Aunt
Damaris's offer of her own company. So after
just pause enough to recover my confusion, whilst
Thompson grinned at me and Florence fixed a
Madonna-like gaze on the skylight above her, I
took my customary place and fell to the plate of
soup the steward put before me. After a brief
silence between Aunt Damaris and myself, during
which I had been expecting her to give me some
reason for changing her seat, I was about to make
some commonplace remark to her when she said,
in her abrupt, pecking way, " I hope you are none
the worst for your wetting."

I told her I was not : on the contrary, I thought
I was the better for it.

"I believe I was a little short with }~ou this
morning," said she. "Pray did I express my
sense of your heroic conduct in such a manner as
to satisfy you ? I admired your behaviour."

Why," I answered, wondering at this talk,
you complimented me very much more handsomely
than I deserved, and so you may

suppose that I was a great deal more than satisfied."


"Then that assures me, Mr. Egerton," said she,
"that the impressions my friends like to make out
I produce on others are not what they represent.
My niece said I had as good as affronted you."

"Oh, indeed not," cried I; "very much the
reverse, believe me."

She screwed her head round to look past Daniel
as if she meant to repeat my remark to Florence,
but observing her and the skipper deep in conversation
she returned to me. " I don't deny," she
continued, 'that I am a little short tempered at
times. "Who is not, pray ? And really, Mr. Egerton,
you will bear me out when I say that the annoyance
I was subjected to at the beginning of this voyage
would have ruined the sweetness of an angel. It
is a perfect horror to me," said she, sinking her
voice with a sharp look along the table, " even
to recall the man in thought : and speak of him I
will not. You know what I mean. Had his
dreadful exaggerations been circulated, I should
have locked myself up in my cabin. Happily they
were restricted to you — they came into the keeping
of a gentleman — I am therefore safe. But oh, dear
me ! how can my niece wonder that I should be
short tempered sometimes ? "

It was a terrible trial for a sensitive lady like
3'oui-self," said I, " and a very narrow escape. And

a still narrower escape' continued I, turning my
eyes on the keen bony old profile, "for your
charming relative'"

Yes, no doubt. "We'll say no more about it,
sir," she exclaimed, not relishing this. And then,
softening her manner, and speaking with a sort of
forced indifference as if she talked merely for the
sake of saying something, she asked, " Are you
engaged in any business in England, Mr. Egerton?"

"No," I replied, " I am what is called a gentleman
at large."

Oh, indeed ; that is a nice condition of life fora
young man with brains, who is temperate and
can devote himself to high pursuits such as going
into Parliament and things of that kind. Have
you any ambition in that way ? " says she, with a
bit of a smile that gave me the idea that my
saying I was a gentleman at large had impressed
her.

"I have sometimes thought of it," I replied,
but there's no use going into the House, you
know, Miss Hawke, unless you can speak. I can
tall — but I can't speak."

Oh ! but the social position is worth a good
deal," said she, "whether you can speak or not.
Probably you may have what, I believe, is called in
England county interest ? "

W T ell — no ! not exactly," said I, as if I was not
sure.

Is not Egerton a good name?" she inquired,
still keeping her respectful bit of a smile. " I don't
know. I ask for information. I believe there is a
Lord Egerton. Is he any connection of yours ? "

One ought never to say no to a question of that
kind," said I, beginning now to understand why
the old woman had shifted her seat. "When
people are of the same name, it is impossible to
say whether they are relatives or not. Hawke,
madam, is a very good name. Possibly you will
be in some way connected with the famous admiral
who beat De Constans last century ? "

"I don't think that can be," she replied, "for I
cannot remember hearing that we ever had an
admiral in our family, though my brother who lives
at Clifton has taken the trouble to find out that we
can go a long way back, and was talking of having
a tree made. Have you a tree ? "

Not in my possession," I answered. " But my
father had one " — in his garden, I might have gone
on to say, but my answer went far enough. •

"What is your father, Mr. Egerton?" she
inquired carelessly, pretending to be more intent on
the piece of fowl on her plate than on me.

He was a solicitor," I answered.

"Ah, indeed ; the law is a nice calling: so very
respectable. There's a deal of money to be made
at it too," says she, munching away at her dinner :
and then she asked if my mother was alive, and

if I had any brothers or sisters, and where I lived
when in London, and so on. By this time it was
quite plain that she had exchanged places with
Florence for the purpose of pumping me : and as
she was not likely to attempt a job of that kind
without some reason, it dawned upon me that she
might have discovered that I was very much taken
with her niece, or that her niece was very much
taken with me, and that she had determined to find
out who I was and all about me, with the view of
putting herself between me and my darling, or of
allowing me to take Mr. Morecombe's place. You
will please understand that her questions had not
the character of rudeness they may appear to
possess as written. She tried — without much
success, I admit — to put a sort of maternal manner
into her inquiries, as though she would have me to
know that she made them not in the least degree
out of curiosity, but simply because she had taken
a fancy to me, and was interested in me, and
wanted for that reason to learn all she could about
me. But as I have said, my suspicion being
raised, I was very careful to give her truthful
answers to her questions, so that the only deception
she should be able hereafter to charge me with,
would be the sailing under false colours. To be
sure I constantly expected to find her turning her
green scrutinizing eyes upon me, suspecting who I
was by my replies; but it was quite evident she

had learnt nothing of Jack Seymour from her
brother, outside the fact that he was a vulgarian
sailor youth ; and vulgaris mayhap I did not
strike her as being, although she had talked as if
she was willing to believe I knew something about
the marine life.

Anyway, the mere circumstance of my supposing
that she was pumping me in order to discover the
extent of my eligibility as a marrying man, caused
me to take extraordinary pains with my behaviour.
I slipped several pretty compliments into her with
considerable adroitness ; and I give you my word,
incredible as it may appear, in the tail of our
conversation we actually grew sentimental — I don't
mean as regards each other, but in our talk. It
came about in this way. One of the stewards in
passing the Mortimerss capsized a small quantity of
wine down the young wife's back. The sudden chill
made her scream, whereupon Marmaduke fell into
agonies of excitement and throes and convulsions
of affection. Had the wine been a bucket of
scalding water, and his wife half boiled by it, the
disorder of the husband's mind could not have
been more extravagant. He mopped her and
swabbed her and caressed her, implored her by the
name of Letitia to tell him if she was hurt,
conjured her to be calm for his sake, and finished
in his excitement in sweeping a decanter, a plate,
and his knife and fork off the table.

Well, when this business was over, I said to
Aunt Damaris, " What an affecting thing is the
love of a newly-married couple ! " meaning, you
see, to be sarcastic, and never doubting that she
would take me in that sense. Greatly to my surprise
the grim, acidulated old lady heaved a sigh
and said :

"It is affecting, Mr. Egerton. It is a dream — it
soon passes — and that makes it affecting. But asa
spectacle it moves us — some of us I should say —
in another way ; as reminding us of that which
might have been, but never never came to pass."

Hallo ! thought I, is it possible ? Can she
ever have been in love ? And I gazed at the
angular old countenance, showing hard and tense
past the sausage curl, with a feeling approaching
to awe. However, it was not my part to let her
sigh for nothing, so I said, "I suppose, Miss
Hawke, it is the doom of all of us to have what
I may term blighted passages in our lives. But
heaven is very merciful, madam, and teaches us
how to forget that we have suffered."

You are wrong, Mr. Egerton," she answered ;
"there are some natures that never can forget.
There are scars which descend to the grave with
one, but that is because the wounds were very deep
and cruel."

You speak feelingly, Miss Hawke," said I,
thinking to myself, "And this is the sentimental

old lady who would have foisted that ass More-combe
upon her niece, and made the darling
miserable for life."

You would think I had reason, were you to
know all," she answered, with a tremble in her
voice expressive of emotion that amazed me in her.
It is too much the fashion to ridicule old maids.
I know nothing more objectionable and vulgar.
There are such things as marriages in heaven, Mr.
Egerton."

"I have heard of them," said I sentimentally,
but never could quite grasp "

"Well, sir, I am married in heaven," she exclaimed,
looking at me intently. "A beloved youth
died, the grave closed over him ; he sleeps in
Sydney, and for thirteen years I never omit visiting
his resting-place once a month when at home.
In life we were betrothed, and his death married
us. No clergyman could have made us more one,
Mr. Egerton ; and I know," continued she, casting
her eyes upon the skylight with a look of devotion,
that when my time comes, the first to "

Plump at that instant came a small damp swab
through the open skylight on which Aunt Damaris's
eyes were fixed ; it upset a number of things on
the table immediately in front of us, and caused
commotion enough to make the old lady squeal out.

Who did that ? " roared Daniel in a great rage,
hopping out of his seat. " Mr. Thornton, jump on

deck, sir, and find out who threw that swab here.
Steward, pick the beastly thing off the table ! "

All was bustle and noise. Mr. Thornton rushed
out of the cuddy, and while one of the stewards
removed the swab, others were baling up the sauce
that had been upset, collecting the nuts, almonds
and raisins, etc., which had been sent flying, and
making the table presentable.

"It was that skylarking apprentice Murphy, sir,"
said Mr. Thornton, returning and resuming his
seat. " The second officer had left the poop for a
minute, and Murphy and another apprentice fell to
chucking that swab at one another, and Murphy's
last throw hove it through the skylight."

Daniel said nothing, but I thought I could detect
the threat of a heavy "work up job" for Murphy
in the inflamed profile of my old friend. The
apparition of the swab — which the ladies should
know is a sort of mop composed of old rope, used
for drying the decks — put an end to Aunt Damaris's
romantic references to the beloved youth who slept
in Sydney. It was holy ground to the old lady,
and not proper for me to intrude on unless she
invited me to walk in again; and so the matter
dropped. I was sorry, for not only was such a
subject as that quite in my vein at that time, so
that I could have listened to her with flattering
sympathy and attention, but it was valuable as a
revelation of her queer character. After the swab

bad been cleared away the conversation grew
general, and then the ladies withdrew, leaving us
gentlemen to sit alone over the wine, tbougb no
smoking was allowed in the cuddy. Daniel bad
smoothed bis countenance, and it shone with ibis
native good nature. I leaned towards bim and
said, " Skipper, I want my sweetheart on deck this
evening for a half-hour's patrolling of your poop.
If she offers to go on deck after dark, the aunt
may think it her duty to follow. This will be
objectionable. Will you manage to convey your
compliments to Miss Florence after the second dog-watch,
and ask her to take a few turns with you f
Your invitation will make the thing shipshape in
the old lady's opinion — always safe with the dear
captain, you know, Daniel."

He grinned, and answered, " Yes, Jack, I'll
oblige you ; though, hang it ! you seem to forget
that I told you I should give up making love for
you after the introductory business. I say, what
did ye think of that swab coming down ? How
came such a thing as that knocking about the
poop ? Left in one of the quarter-boats, I suppose.
It frightened somebody. Was it you that howled?"

I told him it was Aunt Damaris, and nothing
having detained me at the table but the desire to
get him to promise to ask Florence on deck that
evening — thereby doubling my chance of having
her to myself for half an hour — I left the cuddy.

VOL. n. t

The wind had shifted during dinner, and was
blowing a very mild gentle breeze a little to the
southward of west ; the yards were braced to it,
the stun sails in, and the ship sneaking through
the smooth water on which the shadow of the
evening hung dark. There was a streak of new
moon overhead in the wake of the faint flush in the
west where the fires of the sunken luminary were
expiring. It was like a paring of pearl, without
power to silver the dark wings of vapour which
went slowly past it. The time was the second
dogwatch, and all the crew would be forward on
the forecastle, yarning and smoking, and taking
sailor's pleasure ; there was a fiddle going, and a
hoarse, not powerful voice, was keeping it company.
But nothing could be distinguished from
the distance of the poop save the huddle of figures
under the foresail, with outlines of them seated
upon the rail, and rising and falling against the
glimmering stars over the horizon. Upon the
main deck the people moving about were distinct;
you could see a haze of light in the great main
hatchway, one grating of which was off; but the
gloom along the bulwarks, melting into deep
shadow about the galley and against the forecastle
entrance, gave a kind of magnification to the deck
appurtenances; the scuttle-butts, the winch, the
foot of the mainmast, the coils of gear hung upon
pins, and all such matters looked twice their size

in the graduated sweep of dusk, and the sails had
a soft large loom as they rose one above another
to the left of the streak of moon, every edge being
a clear white line of canvas against the darkness,
with stars glittering as it might be upon the bolt-rope,
whilst forward under the arched foot of the
foresail, past the shadowed groups of people there,
you could see a space of the great bowsprit and
jibbooms shooting into the dusky folds of the night
in the south. A sound of rippling water came up
from alongside, with a welling and gurgling under
the counter when the long delicate ocean swell
gently raised the noble ship, and w T went past her
with an ashen light in its broad brow which
stretched the star reflections it caught into lengths
of silver wire ; and every heave seemed to set the
liquid shadows where they lay heaviest upon the
sea-line, flowing betwixt the stars and the water
like a thing that swarmed and thickened and
thinned to the motion of the wind.

You may talk of the loneliness of the deep being
felt most by the solitary watcher, by the castaway,
by the last of an abandoned boat's crew ; but tome
the sense of the ocean's tremendous solitude is
never more oppressive than on such an evening as
this I am describing, when the decks are full of life
made phantom-like by the dusk, and when the ear
goes away from the laugh and the murmur of
voices, and the eye from the swarm of moving

visionary shapes, to the distant starlit soundless
space of sea, to those leagues of-weltering waters
along which the night-breeze passes moaning.
Lads, it is the contrast of the life humming and
stirring about you with the visible Eternity sweeping
up to the ship from the height of the sky overhead,
from the bottom of the fathomless ocean
underneath, from the infinitude of the distances
which girdle you, look where you will, that presses
the feeling of loneliness with the weight of frost
upon the intelligence of a man who makes one of
the crowd in a ship and looks away over her bulwarks
into the silence and darkness of the calm
ocean-night.

But such thoughts as these would create but a
very brief mood in me at that time. I hung about
killing the evening as best I could ; thinking a
good deal of old Aunt Damans and the queer stuff
she had talked to me at dinner, and praying in my
heart that she would not think it necessary to join
Florence. The dew was heavy and glittered along
the hencoops. One by one the people quitted the
forecastle, eight bells were struck, the wheel was
relieved, the watch on deck turned in, and only a
few figures could be seen warring the forward
decks. I peered through the skylight and saw
Thompson Tucker playing at chess with Manna-duke
Mortimer, Mrs. Mortimer sewing close beside
her husband ; Mrs. O'Brien nodded over a book,

and Miss .Grant was writing. Captain Jackson
tramped the deck with the chief mate. Presently
Captain Thompson and Florence came along the
poop. It was too dark for me to be sure of them
until they were close. Daniel said, " I have begged
Miss Hawke to breathe this beautiful air and
surrey this calm ocean. But as you are more
poetical than I, Jack, I will leave you to point out
the wonders of nature, and I am sure you will
forgive me, Miss Hawke, for taking advantage of
the settled look of the weather to turn in." And
without more ado off he went.

My darling laughed lightly and said, " What a
strange man Captain Thompson is ! But I like
him very much."

"I have been waiting about for you," I exclaimed,
" as if this deck were a country lane
in Clifton. It was I who asked Thompson to
invite you to take a walk," and I explained the
reason.

"Aunt Damaris would certainly have accompanied
me if the captain hadn't sent a very polite
message by the steward," said Florence. " You
are very clever, Jack. Almost too clever for my
aunt, I believe."

She is not likely to come on deck, is she ? "

No — there is too much dew. I am not to be
more than twenty minutes," she said. " But this
is delightful ; I certainly shall not hurry ; " and

dark as it was, I could see the gleam of starlight
in her eyes, in the phantom-like glimmer of
her face, as she looked up at the stately, pallid,
shadowy heights of canvas silently doing their
work, and round upon the ebony of the sea.

u Will you take my arm ? There is heave
enough to justify me in asking you."

She did so instantly, and we slowly patrolled the
deck. I talked a deal of impassioned nonsense to
her at the first going off : more than I have the
conscience to repeat. Loving her as I did, boys,
it was perfect happiness to have her sweet hand
nestled against 'my side, her dear face close to me,
and to enjoy her company amid a kind of ocean-loneliness,
so to speak — for the dark decks and the
black sea beyond inspired that feeling — which
seemed to bring us closer than ever the land
could have done in a commune of that kind. She
must have guessed, if she put herself in my company
in this way, that I should make love to her,
and she let me do so as never had she suffered
before ; and after awhile I won from her the admission
I had made up my mind to get from her.
It came as we stood a minute or two looking at
the sea, just abaft the main rigging, where the
shadow of the mainsail threw a deep gloom upon
the deck ; I had her hand in both mine, and, with
my lip to her ear, I asked her to tell me she loved
me — just to speak the words — that I might be surer

than ever her heart was mine, surer than I could
be by looking into her eyes.

Surer ! " she whispered, with a little tremble
in her hand and in her voice. " Have you such
faith in words '. But since you wish me to speak —
oh, Jack ! I am afraid I do love you. You are a
wicked boy to have brought me to this confession,
but I cannot help myself."

Well, whether she liked it or not, I had kissed
her before the last syllable of her answer was fairly
off her darling lips. I was just fit to jump clean
overboard in the excess of my joy. Why, I had
actually won her heart — won her fairly to love
me and to confess it — ay, and to confess it in such
a manner that, by the words, the tremor of the
voice, the whole yielding of herself in the significance
of the answer, the sweet and beautiful truth
of it was as plain to me as the slice of silver moon
that symbolized, as she looked down upon that
silent ship and upon the two young lovers on her
deck, the first passage of a sentiment that was to
become like it full-orbed in time and as pure too.
Won her to love me and to confess it ! Think of
that, said by Jack Seymour of this beautiful
Australian girl, whom, but a few months before,
he had hardly dared to lift his most secret dreams
to!

It took me some time to collect my mind, to
think reasonably, to talk, in short, as if I was nota

stark, staring lunatic. We were then walking
the deck, and my heart's delight, all her confusion
gone, all her embarrassment vanished — thanks to
the tender cover of the darkness — was talking tome
with a glad light note in her voice, and a sort
of freedom and ease as if something that had been
between us was removed, as if she felt her heart
fairly beating on mine at last.

"But what plans have you, Jack?" she was
saying ; " you told me you wanted to talk to me
seriously, and so you have, you bad boy ; and I
also intended to talk to you seriously ; for what
have you done for my sake ? You are following
me to Australia ; what are your plans ? I have
never liked to ask you this question before, but I
do not mind doing so now," said she, with a
little dying away of her rich voice.

My plans, darling, are to marry you," said I.

Oh ! " she exclaimed, in a frightened way,
but you mustn't talk like that. You may say you
love me, but you mustn't dream of marriage."

"Why, Florence — confound — ahem ! not dream ! "
cried I. "Why, my own sweet darling, what do
you think I love you for, but to be your humble,
adoring husband till death parts us."

"Oh, yes ! I know," she cried, still in a very
frightened way ; "but I couldn't think of marrying
you without papa's consent."

"Well, my darling, we must get it," said I,

feeling somehow as if Murphy's damp swab had
been flung at my head, and that it had penetrated
to my soul.

"I would go on loving you for ever, Jack, but
never could I become your wife without papa's
permission," said she, in a voice of such plaintive
melody that the yearning wash of the water alongside
and the complaining of the light breeze as it
sighed into the glooming folds overhead seemed
the fittest accompaniment in the world for it.

"Then, Florence," said I, "you must write
home to your father from Sydney, tell him I
am with 3*011, tell him we are resolved to marry,
that you can only consent to return to England as
my wife; and that letter, coming on top of your
aunt's report of Mr. Morecombe, will bring us his
consent."

"He would be more easily influenced by Aunt
Damaris than by me," said Florence. " Oh, Jack,
I wish she knew who you were ! As Mr. Egerton,
she thinks you a delightful person — she does
indeed."

But if you told her who I am, Florence," said
I, "the good impression I have produced would be
swallowed up in the earthquake the news would
produce in her soul. Will it not be wise for me
to go on steadily improving her liking, until I
have brought her esteem to such a height that
discovery won't affect her ? "

Do you think you'll ever be able to do that,
you conceited boy ? "

I don't know, but I can try. What made her
shift her seat to-day ? She pumped me violently,
asked if I was a connection of Lord Egerton, who
my father was, and so forth. My darling, don't
think me a puppy for the idea that she put into
my head, but upon my word and honour, the
anxiety she showed to find out all about me, my
calling, my social position, my relations and so
forth, was quite enough to cause me to believe
that she wouldn't object to a match between us."

I thought the same thing when she was talking
about you after dinner," said Florence, simply.

"Well," said I, lifting the little hand under my
arm to my mouth, "if I can persuade her to
believe me good enough for my treasure as Jack
Egerton, may not I hope ultimately to prove
myself better as Jack Seymour ? Suppose my
secret is still ours by the time we reach Sydney ;
she has invited me to call upon her there, she
prolongs my chance of improving her friendship.
But suppose I were to go to her now and say,
Miss Damaris, my name is not Egerton but
Seymour ; I am the young man whom my darling's
papa objects to ; I have no noble blood in me
whatever, I am respectable, that's all ' — what
would happen ? There'd be the biggest domestic
flare-up that ever took place on the ocean. She'd

shove herself between us for the rest of the voyage.
and barricade her doors against me when we
arrived at Sydney. I have a good three months
yet to make her love me as a young man ; so,
my darling Florence, I am sure I had better
remain Mr, Egerton for the present."

Very well, Jack ; have your own way. But
what are your plans '? " said she.

M My plans ? " I answered, " do you mean when
we reach Australia ? '"

"Yes."

••Why, I shall live as close to you as I can. and
see you as often as you'll let me, and wait for
your father's permission''

Oh, how obstinate and determined you are !
Suppose papa orders me to return home ? "

"Jack goes with his heart's delight, trust him.
Wherever she is, he is. There is only one person
in this world of millions who can separate me from
3-0U, my own."

"Who is that?" says she, in a whisper of
wonder.

"Florence Hawke," said I.

A tightening of her hand upon my arm was her
answer to this. I proceeded: "My angel, lovers
have no plans. They exist by chance and on
chance. We are together at this moment by
chance, and you will be my own glorious little
wife by chance. Could I have planned More-combe's

sea-sickness, his quitting the ship drunk,
your aunt's tears and respect for me because she
thinks he told me the story of the conspiracy
against your darling heart ? No ! do not ask me
what my plans are. I have none. God, who
loves honest young loving hearts, will dispose of
us, let me propose as I please. If you will be true
to me, my own Florence, my wife you are sure to
he in the end. Will you be true ? Will you
always love me, my darling ? "

We were in the deep shadow of the mainsail
again, the right place for a holy confirmatory kiss ;
it was given and taken whilst Captain Jackson and
the officer of the watch talked loudly at the other
end of the poop, and whilst the helmsman stood
black against the stars that sliced up and down
softly past the taffrail, and whilst the canvas aloft
came in to the masts with a kind of sigh against
the folds of darkness up there, and the exquisite
white chip of new moon swung in the deep indigo
of the sky above the topsail yardarm. Presently
we were again quietly pacing the deck and talking
thus :

"Did you know, Florence, that your aunt is
married in heaven ? "

No ; who married her there, Jack ? "

She did not say. Probably her husband will
be one of those angels who are continually crying.
Just before that swab came through the skylight

she was exceedingly sentimental ; told me of some
youth who sleeps in Sydney, and whose grave she
has regularly visited once a month for thirteen
years."

Oh, I know what you mean ! " said Florence,
laughing. " There was a poor, sickly, humpbacked
musician named Acorn. Aunt Damaris
got it into her head that he was deeply in love
with her. I never heard that he actually proposed,
but they corresponded, and when the poor
creature took to his bed she nursed him. Did she
tell you of that ? How strange ! It proves how
much she likes 3*011, to be so very confidential."

"You have no idea, Florence, how sentimental
she was. She said the r were not married until he
was buried, and then they became man and wife.
Queer notions of marriage some people have !
Murphy's swab stopped her from seeing him, I
think, for she stared up through the skylight as
if she expected Acorn to heave in sight. How do
you reconcile her sentimentality with her desire to
force that idiot Morecombe upon you?"

"Oh, she is sentimental for herself, not for
others, Jack. There are more people like her in
the world. . . . Don't talk to me of Mr. More-combe
! It is cruel that such a wound to one's
pride should be dealt with by relatives : " and she
drew herself erect with a note of deep resentment
thrilling through her voice.

However, I was now privileged to humour her
in the manner that pleased me best, and you may
wager I did not long allow my reference to Mr.
Moreconibe to keep her resentful. Many a half
hour did I pass with this darling of mine afterwards,
but never a sweeter one than this. Did I
say half an hour? It was a mighty long one if
that were all of it. I heard two bells go, and then
three bells ; nine o'clock and half-past nine, boys,
and still she was with me. The rim of moon slid
down so far that at last it was looking at us out
of the liquid black over the slip of topmast staysail
boom on the main yard ; the wind had drawn into
a steadier gushing and was striking sparks of green
fire out of the sea as it blew the heads of the
little surges into froth and made a quick glance of
wan light all about over the deep shadow that its
own weight put upon the windward water. The
ship leaned lightly over, and was carrying her
fabric of glimmering canvas through the night as
silently as if a cloud of white vapour rested upon
her hull and was impelling her. It was this
silence aloft and away out in the darkness through
which the stars were shining that seemed to catch
the fancy of my darling, for again and again she
would come to a stand in a kind of listening
posture, though never letting go of my arm, and
I could see the sheen in her eyes — caught from her
soul and nowhere else, for the light was in them

when we stood where no star-beams could fall and
where there 'was no lantern radiance — as she rolled
there from the black ocean up to where the marble-like
sails melted away into vague spaces, breathing
slowly as though she saw more in what she looked
at than the water, and the darkness, and the
whitish loom of a ship's canvas.

She could not have flattered me more sweetly
than she did by appearing to pay no heed to the
passage of time. Most of our conversation is nota
thing to be repeated, even if I could recall it ;
for my notion is that what passes between lovers
is a sacred matter, no matter how foolish their
talk might sound. "What right have j^ou to expect
me to tell you how often I kissed this girl ; whether
I put my arm round her waist ; the vows and hopes
I whispered, and her caresses and answers ? Why
should young people waist until they are alone to
talk and behave as sweethearts, if every squeeze,
every sigh, every kiss, every look is to be put
down in black and white and given to the world ?
Would Florence have let me put my lips to her
soft cheek, and softer mouth, would she have met
as she did all that my love for her had to say, had
the sun stood over our masthead instead of a slip
of moon westering fast ? No, boys ; the darkness
hath its secrets, and I'm for letting them be. As
much as I choose to tell you you may relish and
make the most of, but call me all the loafing land-lubbers

you can put your tongue to if you find me
burning a flare on the Stratford's poop for no
other reason than that all hands may see Jack
Seymour and his Australian pearl making love.
Nor, after all, might you much thank me for
spinning out this yarn by an exact disclosure of
a job in the nice handling of which sailor men
are but clumsy fists. There were spells of silence
between us out and away more poetical and eloquent
than the finest language that was ever spoken,
and who is going to describe them ? When people
make love they never talk it as it is written clown
in books. Not they. There's small heed of grammar
; there's too much meaning for long-winded
speeches, and most of the sense that's found goes
out of the words into a squeeze of the hand, a
softening of the eye, the fondling of a wisp of hair
over the ear, a blush, a smile, a coming and going
of the breath that takes the place of purring among
men and women. That's it, boys ; and that's how
it was with us. Oh, of course there were intervals
of sense between us — breaking of fact into our
heaven, like the arrival by balloon of a earful of
commercial gents among the angels. We would
talk of Clifton, of Aunt Damaris, ay, and of Mr.
Alphonso Hawke, and of Emily (very tenderly)
and of my uncle and aunt and cousins ; but the
weight of my passion was always too much for
even the sturdiest of such topics, so that we were

never long upon any one of their before we had it
sloping away under us, and then — plump we would
fall into love-making, until a sudden loud call of
Lay aft some hands to the weather main braces !
Ease off your bowlines forward ! Look alive,
men ! " startled my darling, who exclaimed, "Oh,
Jack, what time can it be ? "

There was a clock under the skylight. " Twenty
minutes to ten, Florence."

"Is it possible ? — then indeed I must say goodnight.
What will my aunt think ? " And as the
watch on deck came rumbling aft, sleepily growling
as they stepped up the poop ladder, and flinging
down the coils of braces as if the thunder of the
sound over the heads of the cuddy passengers was
an annoyance that did them good to think of, I
conducted Florence to the companion, and with a
lingering hold of the hand, wished her good-night.

VOL.

CHAPTER XV.

IN THE NORTH-EAST TRADES.

Florence and I could not be aboard a ship full of
people and so manage our behaviour as to escape
their detection of the truth. It would have been
impossible. We were put down as people who
had fallen in love at first sight, but it does not
take folks long to get used to things at sea, and
our being seen together every day, I was almost
writing every hour, soon made us stale as objects
of curiosity, though Daniel told me that at the
beginning of the voyage some of the passengers
were fond of asking questions about us, Mrs.
Marmaduke Mortimer and Mrs. O'Brien in particular
; but of course he did not choose to know
anything beyond that we were going to Australia
in his ship, and that I was an old friend of his
whom he had lost sight of for years.

But as I have before said, neither Florence nor

■ I allowed the inspection or inquisitiveness of our

cuddy companions to trouble us. But for Aunt

Damans they would have been heartily welcome
to the whole story. Yet, although the old lady
had not the least imaginable suspicion that I was
anybody else but the Mr. John Egerton I represented
myself as being, she was not likely to be
blinder to what was happening betwixt her niece
and me than the others ; and this being so it
looked uncommonly to me as if matters were
drawing up to a head when Florence told me next
morning at breakfast that she had informed her
it was I and not Captain Thompson whom she
had been on deck with during the previous evening.
The old lady was breakfasting in her cabin, and
Florence took her place between me and Daniel,
and that's how it was I happened at that meal to
hear what had passed between them after my
sweetheart went below.

"Aunt Damaris," said Florence, "was in bed,
but wide awake. ' What has been keeping you 2 '
she asked. ' How late you are ! It is too bad
that Captain Thompson should detain you for
more than an hour in the damp night air. You
promised not to be longer than twenty minutes
I answered, ' Mr. Egerton joined me, aunt, and
I have been walking with him.' ' And with the
captain also ? ' ' No, the captain went to bed
shortly after he had brought me on deck.' " On
this, Florence said there was a silence that surprised
her, as she expected her aunt would have

angrily rapped out at her for being alone in the
dark on deck with a young man. " Mr. Egerton,"
said she at last, "seems to have fallen in love
with you." " I think he has," replied Florence
in the simple way I could perfectly imagine in
her. " And are you in love with him ? " asked
Aunt Damaris. " I like him very much," replied
Florence, " and I really don't see why I should not,
considering how warmly you have praised him tome."
" I certainly have praised him," said Aunt
Damaris, " and I think he deserves it. He acted
very nobly in saving Mrs. Joyce's little child, and
his behaviour on that occasion shows that he
possesses some very meritorious qualities. He is
quite a gentleman, at least I think him so, and his
manner towards me is full of modesty, respectfulness,
and good taste. He tells me that his father
is a solicitor, but he is reticent on the subject of
his connections. I do not think he is a relative
of Lord Egerton ; he would say so if he were. I
fancy your papa would like him. At all events, he
is the very antipodes of Mr. Morecombe, which,
after my experience of that wretch, is the most
pleasing thing I could desire in a young man.
Are you encouraging him, Florence ? " " Well,
aunt, I like him," replied Florence ; " and when
one likes a person one can't help enjoying his
company." Here Aunt Damaris fell silent awhile,
and then said, " I don't know what to do, I'm

sure. I'm in your papa's place, and should like
to counsel you as he would. I certainly think Mr.
Egerton a gentleman and an agreeable young man.
But pray don't encourage him too pointedly, please.
I want to know more of him, to see into his character
and ascertain his true position in society.
Perhaps his friend, Captain Thompson, will tell
me about him. There is plenty of time ; the
voyage is only begun, and I have invited him to
call upon me at Sydney, you know."

This was the gist of what passed, and my
darling's comment upon it to me was, " I was sure,
Jack, from a something I cannot describe in her
manner, that she was thinking of you — I mean of
the real you — Jack Seymour, dear. Mr. Morecombe
is lost to us, you see, and my aunt will think of
course that when I return to England i shall carry
with me a heart unchanged for Sophie's sailor
cousin ; and consequently the genteel and evidently
well-conducted Mr. Egerton would be so superior
afl a lover to the Jack Seymour whom poor Aunt
Damaris had been made to think of as a vulgar
insulting person, that it is a question for her to
consider whether, if I choose to accept his retired
attentions and to fall in love with him, she ought
to interfere."

This was like a revelation to me, for, to speak the
truth, I was so puzzled by my own identity that 1
would quite forget that one reason Mr. Hawke had

in sending his daughter to Australia was to get rid
of rue, whilst it almost defied me to realize that
Aunt Damaris would consider me as Jack Egerton
such a substitute for me as Jack Seymour as would
be very acceptable to Alphonse, who wanted breeding
and name in a man. You see it is hard to
think of yourself as two persons ; but when my
darling, with the sagacity of a clever little woman,
had interpreted one idea at least that lay in her
aunt's mind, I found on a sudden the old lady's
politeness to me and her apparent disregard of
my transparent enjoyment of her niece's company
vastly more intelligible than when explained merely
by the circumstance of my having borrowed an
aristocratic name and of knowing all about the
plot which had brought her and her niece and
ATorecombe together in one ship.

We took the north-east trades in twenty-seven
and a half degrees north latitude, and carried
them down to the parallel of Sierra Leone. In
all that while nothing happened outside or inside
the ship to call for particular notice. I never lost
a chance of being with my darling whether on
deck or in the cuddy, and my opportunities were
perhaps improved by the circumstance of Aunt
Damaris taking a cold that had kept her in her
cabin for a week, though I do not know, had she
been well, that she would have checked ruy constant
association with Florence. Before she took

cold her behaviour to me was quite gracious, and
so far as my darling and I were concerned, her

attitude gave me the notion that she had made up
her mind to let things "slide." Sometimes she
would take her place between Daniel and me,
sometimes seat herself on Daniel's right,, with a
capriciousness that indicated a mood not wholly
resolved. Whenever she sat next to me she would
be constantly making experiments in the shape of
carelessly put questions touching my past life. I
cannot remember that I fibbed, I hope I didn't ;
but I was exceedingly cautious in my replies. I
gave room for her imagination to tumble about in
by artfully importing a certain large ambiguity
into my answers, so that she was never in a
position to say that I was not highly connected,
and not in other ways more important than I chose
to let her know, though I also took care that she
should never afterwards be able to charge me with
having told her a real caulker.

A day or two after her talk with Florence in her
cabin, she sounded Daniel about me, as my friend
made haste to let me know. I was with my darling
<»n deck, looking over the stern at the hollow green
and the Mother Carey's chickens flashing
through the spray in the wake of the ploughing
My friend rolled up to us and said : " Jack,
Miss Damaris Hawke has been asking me questions
about you, my lad. She met me coming out of my

cabin, hauled me to the table and fired away.
Have you told her that you're the son of a
nobleman ? "

Certainly not," I replied, looking from him to
Florence, who was watching him with laughing
eyes.

Well, then, she seems to have some notion of
that kind in her head," said Thompson. " She
says to me, 'Weren't you at school with him,
captain ? ' and I answered ' Yes,' for what is a ship
but a school, and a mighty rough one too ? and
Jack and I were at sea together, Miss Florence, as
of course you have heard. 'Did you know his
father ? ' said she. ' No, ma'am,' said I. ' He is a
solicitor, he says.' 'Ay, and a first-class solicitor
too,' I answered. ' He is a most gentlemanly young-man,'
says she, kind of sounding me, 'and I wish
you could tell me more about him, for his gallant
exploit the other day, coupled with his politeness tome,
has made me feel very much interested in him.'
Well, you may suppose I wasn't going to swallow
that view of it," said Daniel, with his beaming face
turned full upon Florence, who was biting her lip
with a look of mingled merriment and confusion;
I quite understood what she was driving at, and
if I hadn't been afraid of putting my foot in it by
contradicting something you might have told her,
I could have spun her on the spot a tiptop yarn
about you, Jack — something to make her hair curl.

For, my dear fellow, if she wants you to be a lord's
connection, be one, man — eh, Miss Florence ?
Hang it ! if it be true that we all come from Adam
and Eve, then who's going to call me a liar if I say
that the Queen of England's my sister ?"

I am glad you didn't invent," said I, laughing.
"If no more passed between you than what you
have related, then you gave her no information at,
all."

"Well, I didn't commit myself," he answered;
4i I didn't say you were a nobleman's eldest son;
but as I'm glad to give an old shipmate a hand, I
just turned to and gave her my opinion of you,
cracking you up in a speech that lasted so long
that before I had come to the end of it I had
worked a look into her face that was like asking
me to hold my jaw. And don't you deserve all the
good I can say of you ? I am sure Miss Florence
thinks so; " and with a comical bow to her, and a
loud genial laugh, the large-hearted little fellow
stumped off, instantly forgetting all about us no
doubt as he rolled his eyes along the ridged horizon
to windward and took a skipper's squint at the set
of the booming canvas.

But as I have said, I lost sight of Aunt Damaris
when the north-east trades began to blow, and
heard of her only through Florence, who reported
her as very peevish and quarrelsome, her nose of a
fiery red, her eyes streaming, and her voice little

more than a kind of decayed hoarseness. I was
careful to send my respectful compliments and
sympathetic inquiries to her again and again, but I
will not pretend that I lamented her absence.
Hour after hour Florence and I were together,
until Mrs. O'Brien would look as if she felt it her
duty to come up and congratulate us, whilst Mrs.
Marmaduke Mortimer would simper up at us from
her book or work as we passed, with an air of
languishing encouragement and sympathy that was
as comical as it was kind.

The trade wind blew nobly ; it swept over us a
couple of points abaft the port beam in a swinging-torrent
that kept the brave fabric humming and
roaring day and night. "We carried royal and
fore-topmast staysail to it, and with a sort of
leaning down of her nose, and heel enough to give
her keen stem the slanting leverage it wanted to
tear the emerald seas into snowstorms, the Strath-more
drove along with a thrilling through the
length of her that was like the chattering of your
teeth, and a noise of thunder aloft as if every
ivory-hard rounded sail held a storm in its hollow.
I remember one day standing with my darling —
who never seemed to tire of the beautiful sight the
ship and the sea made, whether in calm or storm —
near the wheel, watching the whole length of the
vessel sweeping with long floating lurches athwart
the surges. I had my eyes on her sweet face,

standing out with delicate clearness against the
greenish sky over the rail, and was studying with a
lover's delight the varying moods in it as she would
look from the height of the gleaming royal to the
hissing and seething yeast that spread away, from
where the lee bathed overhung the water, with a
broad swirl of giddy dazzling white.

Suddenly she said, "Does not the ship look
grander from the other end there*' pointing to the
forecastle, "where she would seem to be coming
towards you with her noble sails swelling out
instead of always being in hollows as we see them
here ? ' '

"We can soon satisfy ourselves on that point,"
said I, " if you'll take my arm and go with me there"*

But the men, Jack "

My darling, we're not going aloft : there'll be
no footing to pay," said I, laughing and catching
up her hand and putting it under my arm. She
hung in the wind a bit as if she was afraid ; she
had never left the poop before, and "Oh, Jack !
what would the men say ? Would they be rude ? "
I conquered her timidity at last, and, singing out
to Mr. Thornton that 1 was going to show Miss
Hawke what the sea looked like under the bows —
for he stared to see me leading her down the poop-ladder
— we gained the quarter-deck and went along
the waist to the forecastle ladder.

The 'tween-deck passengers were hanging about,.

chiefly to leeward out of the way of the wind,
smoking and talking, the women nursing babies or
watching their youngsters cutting capers in the
scuppers. Florence was critically eyed as she
passed along, her dress, from the feather in her
hat to her little boots, being attentively scanned
by those of her own sex amongst the poor people,
and I noticed a deal of admiration in the looks of
the men, along with a peering past of one another
to follow her beautiful figure, whilst they muttered
their approval. When we came to the galley and
I stopped to show her the ship's kitchen, the boatswain
stood in the lee door taking a few furtive
pulls at a sooty pipe, and talking to the cook and
the baker, who lounged against a sort of dresser
with their bare pale arms crossed upon their shirts.

How are you, Shilling ? " said I. " Cook, beg
pardon for intruding. I want to show this lady
where all the beautiful dinners you send us aft
come from."

The boatswain put his pipe up his sleeve and
respectfully flourished his thumb at his moleskin
cap. " Glad to see ye forrard, Mr. Seymour,"
said he : and then, sucking in his cheeks with a
glance of alarm at Florence, " Hegerton I mean,
sir. Why, shiver my topsails, as stage sailors say,
where's my old memory wandering not to recall
that Hegerton' s the word, and Hegerton it is."

We're going to have a look at your ship from

the forecastle, Shilling," said I, winking to Lira not
to feel distressed. " Meanwhile, Miss Hawke,"
said I, mighty polite before these men, " what do
you think of this sea-kitchen — caboose the old word
is ? Do you see those big coppers there ? That is
where Jack's pea-soup, and his pork and beef and
duff are boiled. Oh ! you should taste those
delicacies. Cook, once upon a time a rough
sailor man pulled the likeness of the hull of a
Chinese junk out of his bosom and asked me what
it was made of. I smelt and peered, and said,
why, it looks like a piece of teak that's been fished
up out of the bed of the ocean. ' Nothing of the
kind,' says he ; ' it's a bit of the salt beef that was
served out to the crew in the last ship I was in, and
I'm going to make a will all about this here bit of
beef and nothing else — for it's all I own — and
bequeath it to the British Museum, as the gift of
an English sailor to the people of the United
Kingdom.' What do you think of that, cook ? "

Think? " answered the cook, who had a rather
sour eye; "why, that that rough sailor man was
a-coddin' of you, sir."

No, no ! " exclaimed the boatswain ; " codlin' !
why, I've been shipmates with beef that hard ye
might have carved it into bricks and built gentlemen's
wills with it."

Here some of the emigrants came shuffling
behind the boatswain and peering over him in

order to see what was going forward; so I made
haste to call Florence's attention to the pots and
pans, and odds and ends of this marine kitchen,
and then, passing my arm through hers, helped her
np the ladder until she stood upon that raised
structure in the bows of a ship called by the name
of top-gallant forecastle, and corresponding with
the elevated after-deck named the poop. There is
all the difference in the world betwixt the fore and
hinder parts of a ship, and the distinction is nevermore
felt than when the vessel is at sea, sailing
along. Aft, everything is neat and clean and
sparkling : ropes carefully coiled, deck white, and
a glimpse of carpets and fine furniture through the
brilliant skylights. But the forecastle is Jack's
home, and the roof of his tapering habitation has
as rough and coarse a look as the interior. The
great anchors lie stowed behind the rails ; the capstan
has a rude appearance ; maybe you'll find a
pair of dungaree breeches and a shirt or two
swelling out upon the forestry ; the giant bowsprit
and jibboom fork far away out, and the landsman's
eye is bewildered by the complication of shrouds,
horses, foot ropes, bobstays, which come into the
ship from the vast spars.

"What is that hole there?" asked Florence,
pointing with one hand and keeping tight hold of
me with the other.

A hatch called the forecastle ; one of the doors

which lead into the sailor's parlour and bedroom ; "
and I conducted her to the edge of it, and we
peered into what looked as dark as a pocket, with a
streak of light falling down upon a dark-green
seaman's chest just below. An instant after a
grimy Scandinavian face looked up at us out of a
mop of sprawling red curls ; whereupon we drew
back, for, hard as the foregoing mind may find
this saying to accept, it is nevertheless true that
the sailor is a human being, duly endowed with
sensitiveness, and that he does not like people to
peep and stare at him in his sea-home as if he
were a bearded woman in a cage or a Chinese
dwarf in a booth. There were one or two seamen
at work on the forecastle, but no notice was taken
of us beyond the sidelong squint which salts have
a knack of throwing at you over the bronzed lump
that stands for the outline of a junk of tobacco
between the jaws.

The right place to see the ship is from that
spar yonder," said I, pointing to the flying jib-boom
; "were there only a lady's saddle aboard,
and I could manage to seat you there, you'd enjoy T
such a dancing gallop through the air, with this
great ship thundering after you in your wake, and
the sky opening ahead of you to receive your
darling form as you come, that you'd have to go
back to the time of the Arabian Nights to meet
with such another flying steed."

"Ob, I never could get out there ! " cried ray
pet, rounding her beautiful eyes at the distant
dancing boom.

"No, and I don't mean that you should try,"
said I. "But come with me — I'll show you all
that is to be seen ; " and I took her to the lee rail,
just clear of the clew of the topmast staysail, and
pointed aloft.

Upon my word it was a noble sight, well worth
the journey to the forecastle. The trade wind had
settled broad abeam within the past two hours,
and the yards were braced far enough forward to
enable us to see past the lee leeches as far as the
mizen-topsail. The ship under royal and fore-topmast
staysail was flashing her lee channels
through the leaping, blowing smother of white ;
the huge sails went leaning up, one above another,
and one yardarm passed another, until the blue
sky, along which the trade clouds were driving,
seemed to be a vast surface of canvas : the sun was to
leeward of the royal-masthead, and the white light
poured down with a sort of blazing gushing upon
the bosoms of the sails, leaving the foot of them in
shadow against the dazzling azure which swept
between the straight black lines of the yards and
the rounded bottoms of the cloths ; every staysail
was in gloom and stood in superb curves like
delicate pencil-drawings; up behind the heads of
the inner and outer jibs you saw the fore-topmast

staysail pulling like an imprisoned cloud at its
slender boom ; and looking from there to the end
of the long, slightly bowed spars which shot out of
the forecastle betwixt the knight-heads and soared
above the line of the horizon, you ran your eye
over the flight of carved-like, steady staysail and
jibs pointing one above another, one darkening a
space of the brilliant white of the next with the
shadow of its clew, whilst, like the swing of a
pendulum, these gleaming wings swept and soared
over the deep, clear, yeasty ocean blue, that ran
away up the dolphin striker until the horizon stood
as high as the junction of the bobstays upon that
outrigger. But the wonder and delight of this
most beautiful sea-picture la 7 , not alone in the
thunderous heights of canvas; whatever the eye
sought yielded a charm ; in the sparkling upon the
decks, as the slanting heave of the ship shifted
the dancing sunshine along her; in the heap of
gem-like white water rushing in whirlpools past
the line of her bulwark rails ; in the play of surges
smoothly rolling away to leeward, but coming along
on the weather side in curved blue ridges that grew
into a transparent green under the bows, every
surge with a blowing of crystal smoke about its
luminous brow, and here and there a fragment
of rainbow that swept along for a breath with the
wind, and went out like the flying-fish that sparkled
in silver showers from the violet-coloured slant of

VOL. II. X

the seas in a clear leap across the fresh foam of the
melting crests, and a vanishing flash into the dark
gleaming hue of the billow beyond.

But the best thing of all was to lean over the
weather-rail close up at the head, and look down
to where you could see the sharp stem with its
sheathing of yellow metal, shearing like a hissing
hot thing through the water with a liquid slide
into the brilliant hollow that would heave the
beautiful soft white foam so high as to look almost
close to our hands, whilst the rush of the half-buried
bows would drive an acre of it creaming
ahead faster than the vessel was sailing, until the
outer line of the shining swirl seemed a ship's
length distant ; and then up would float the knife-like
cutwater, as if the noble ship meant to bodily
leap the space of snow she had hurled forward on
her path, the shining water draining down her, and
the sea drawing into a hollow beyond, and you felt
the glorious buoyant life of the deep-blue surge —
oh, how different from the drunken horseplay of
narrow waters ! — as the vessel poised her beautiful
bows on the summit of a long, bright, washing
Atlantic sea, looking down as it might be for a
breath only into the gleaming shadow, laced with
foam, that seemed to be rushing up to meet us,
and then, with all her sails swelling out their
white bosoms for the plunge, swept like an albatross
into it, sending a blue wave roaring away on

either hand, and filling the great trough with
foam.

Man alive ! there is no feeling like to what you
get from this speeding of a great full-rigged ship
athwart the steady trade. A fig for your steamers,
say I ! The delight, the hope, the sense of liberty,
the overwhelming feeling of life that is put into a
man by it, makes a boy's heart of the weather-worn
organ that beats behind the leather of his breast,
and if tears should be in his eyes when he raises
them from the windy shining scene to the deeper
blue above the masthead, where the spirit of God
looks down on the poor sailor, Jack Seymour would
deserve but little mercy if he found anything in those
drops to make him grin. And was it wonderful
that rainbows should have gleamed in the foam
under us, and that every bubble should have shone
as if it were an emerald or a ruby or some rich gem
of that kind under a crystal cup, when the light of
my darling's eyes was upon the sea and the lustre
of her wind-swept face, made rosy by the steady
blowing, streamed down upon the hurling snow?
Well, to be sure, this is a touch beyond nature and
a shade too poetical ; but I may safely say that
never looked she more lovely than on that day
when she would turn her brilliant, wondering,
admiring eyes from the blue sparkling that raced
sweeping by, to me that I might mark her enjoyment,
and from me to the leaning towers of canvas

above, which she would watch with one hand on
mine to support her, and the other to her forehead,
whilst the gold of her hair rippled and trembled
under her hat, and the pearls betwixt her open red
licks shone like the foam-flakes which blew up with
every send of the ship's crushing bows. Still too
poetical, my lad; but no matter, since this ends
my bit of description.

A DEAD CALM.

Abreast of Sierra Leone we lost the north-east
trades — you may call the longitude nine degrees
north. At noon the sun stood almost directly over
us, and a man's shadow was so short that it needed
half-an-hour's swim of the sun down the ecliptic to
persuade him that he had one. You felt the heat
when the swinging trade wind ceased to blow. It
went out in a breath, the last of its steam-like
clouds rolled away over the sea, and the ocean fell
into a trance. This was in the afternoon ; everybody
was on deck, Aunt Damaris among them ; but
when that wonderful calm came along in the wake
of the last soft faint sigh of the wind, the hush of
it seemed to fall like the night itself upon the ship.
From under the shadow of the awning aft you
looked along and saw the light blue of the sky
dazzling like silver over the sea betwixt the main
and fore shrouds on either hand, and whenever the
delicate swell let the ship lie steady for a space on

a level keel, then, wherever the sunshine poured,
you would see all erect things, the lower masts, the
figures of men and women, the galley chimney, the
standing rigging, vibrating with the appearance of
revolving in the hot steamy atmosphere, like corkscrews
slowly turned. The sea went away from
the ship's side in a surface of blue oil to the sky,
and melted there in a haze that made the distance
look immeasurable. The lull was so soothing that
in a very short time Captain Jackson was snoring
at the top of his pipes out of his wide-open mouth,
his wife dozed over a book, Mrs. Marmaduke
Mortimer slumbered on the skylight with her head
on the ship's ensign — everybody appeared mesmerized
; the hens in their coops muttered as you may
hear them in their roosts at midnight : the emigrants
lay about the decks wherever the shadows
were; the sailors nodded over their jobs, and an
ordinary seaman greasing down the foreroyalmast
swung there under the mighty violet dome as
though slumbering to the lullaby chanted by the
soft white canvas as it gently came into the masts
with the heaving of the vessel.

It was desperately hot in the cuddy in spite of
windsails and open skylights, and nothing could
have taken us to it nor detained us in it but
dinner. The passengers were not in a good
temper, and Captain Jackson led off at table by
exclaiming, as he stirred and looked into his plate,

"What! .pea-soup within a stone's throw of the
equator ! "

"Nothing like hot stuffs in hot weather," said
Daniel from his place at the head of the table ;
"they make you feel cool afterwards."

"I say, captain," cried Mr. Thompson Tucker,
"any chance of a breeze, do you know? There
are more lively things than being stuck like a buoy
in the middle of the ocean."

Can't say, I'm sure," replied Daniel, turning
up his red face to the skylights ; "we never hope
for much in the way of breezes hereabouts."

Then what are we to expect ? " exclaimed Aunt
Damaris, sharply ; she was sitting in her old place,
leaving Florence to me.

"Why, ma'am, we're to expect what they call
catspaws ; troublesome currents of air which keep
common sailors swearing," answered Daniel.

We're in the parallels termed the doldrums,"
said Captain Jackson, with the perspiration standing
in globules upon his face. " Scalding pea-soup in
the doldrums ! " And he wiped his forehead with a
large silk pocket-handkerchief.

"Why does he eat it ? " whispered Florence to me.

I don't think it much matters," said Aunt
Damaris, snappishly, "whether you call these
calms humdrum or tantrums. They're very
annoying, and always make me regret that I am
not in a steamer."

"I called them doldrums," said Captain Jackson,
warmly, "though no doubt they occasionally
produce tantrums."

"Of that I am quite sure," exclaimed Aunt
Damaris, with a giggle ; " and hot pea-soup does
the same thing at times, doesn't it, Captain
Thompson? Doldrums, indeed!" cried she, suddenly
changing her manner ; "if sailors give things
imbecile names, I wonder sensible people can be
found to repeat them."

Steward ! " bawled Captain Thompson, " tumble
on deck and see if there's a breath of air, and if
so, have the mouth of the windsail slewed to it,"
while Florence whispered to me, " How pettish
aunt is ! I hope there won't be a quarrel ; " and
Mrs. Jackson scowled at the old lady. However,
the navy man made no answer, and we were
hauled clear of what threatened to be a shindy by
Thompson Tucker saying, " I always heard that
the sea was monotonous, but never could have
guessed what a real bore it is. How can people be
sailors ? Think of getting up every morning and
alway's seeing the same thing. What have you got
at sea? There are no theatres, no concerts, no
balls — there's nothing to expect — no letters, no
shooting, no hunting, no riding — there's nothing
to do except to eat and drink and go to bed.
Who'd be a sailor ? "

If there were no sailors you'd get no tea nor

sugar, npr ivory fans and ostrich feathers and
sealskin cloaks, and hundreds of other nice things,"
says mild Mrs. Grant.

"And who'd fight your battles?" said Captain
Jackson, defiantly.

"Yes," said Mrs. Marinaduke Mortimer, "if
there were no sailors, England would be invaded,
and how dreadful that would be ; " to which her
husband added, "Dreadful indeed."

As to fighting my battles," exclaimed Thompson
Tucker, " all that I can say is, if I can't do that
for myself, I don't know who'll do it for me. However,
I'm not going to argue that men are not very
kind to put on loose blue trousers or red coats and
go out and shoot my enemies. Whenever I consider
how little I am asked to pay in support of the
army and navy, I always feel that it's a cheap
let-off for me. That's why I'm never annoyed
when a military or naval officer gives himself airs.
I say, ' No, let him be proud of being what he is ;
he's quite welcome to think himself a finer person
than I; if he didn't, he'd call himself a fool for
venturing his life for a trifle of money and a suit of
livery which he has to pay for himself; ' and then,
you see, I might have to do it instead."

Aunt Damaris applauded this loudly, no doubt
because it looked to be a kind of slap at Captain
Jackson, whom she detested, while Mrs. Jackson
declared that she had never heard such sentiments.

and Miss Grant piped out, "Oh, I dearly love
soldiers ! " For my part, I could not help laughing
loudly at the stupid creature's reasoning, and
Daniel joining in, our volley of mirth set some of
the others grinning, and the rest of the dinner-time
passed off without any further marked exhibitions
of temper.

Aunt Damaris was afraid of dew, but for all that
the heat of the cuddy proved too much for her and
drove her on deck. It was about eight o'clock, and
she found me sitting with Florence, but she said
nothing : merely asked me to place a chair for her
near her niece, and so joined us.

Take care you don't catch cold again, aunt,"
said Florence.

"I must take my chance," she answered; "I
cannot stand the atmosphere downstairs — you could
bake bread in it."

Here the vessel gently leaned, the mizzen-topsail
andtop-gallantsail came in sleepily to the mast and
shook down a shower of dew that pattered on the
deck like a small fall of rain.

Why, what is that," cried Aunt Damaris, looking
up into the breathless black heavens, in which
the planets were shining like moons, whilst the
myriad orbs behind them seemed to convert the
firmament into one vast Milky Way.

'dew," said I, "and I am afraid it will drop
upon you wherever you go, for it collects fast upon

the ropes and rigging as well as the sails and yards.
If you have an umbrella in your cabin, niadam "

"I have, Mr. Egerton ; but I'm not an Indian
princess," said she, " withja retinue of miserable
black slaves to hold umbrellas up over me, and I
really feel too languid to hold up one myself'

•• You need not do so. Miss Hawke," said I. "At
all events, after your late bad illness, I am determined
not to let you run any risks, so if you will
allow me to get your umbrella "

Oil, Mr. Egerton, you are very kind and attentive,"
said the old lady, with a perfect gush of
iV-cling coming out along with her words. "I am
sure I am very sensible of your politeness, sir — I
am, indeed'* And another patter of dew draining
down from the swing of the canvas on high, she
started and said, " The steward will find an
umbrella in a bundle under the lower bedstead — tell
him not to open the strap, but to pull the umbrella

out, and to be very careful to " and she followed

up with about twenty* directions, winding up with,
Florence, you had better fetch it : the steward is
sure to upset something and pull things about'
^"litreupon my darling jumped up, went for the
umbrella, and returned with it.

I stepped up to one of the apprentices and a
him to get me a couple of rope-yarns, and seized
the handle of the umbrella to the back of the old
lady's chair : and thus sheltered-he pronounced

herself very comfortable and extremely obliged tome
for my attention. When the other passengers
caught sight of this umbrella, some titters went
flying about the shadows along the poop, and I
heard Captain Jackson say to somebody he was
talking to near the wheel — the navy man never
could subdue his voice — " Well, confound me if ever
I saw an open umbrella at sea before. Were a
squall to come now and blow her overboard, damme
if the picture wouldn't be like the flight of a witch
on a broomstick ! "

Did you hear that ? " gasped Aunt Damaris.

"I did," I replied; "it is a very rude remark,
but as it was not meant to reach our ears, it will
not do to take any notice of it."

It was a wonder that I managed to speak, for I
was nearly choked with suppressed laughter, whilst
I could see Florence by the clear light of the stars
that came slanting fair upon her over the port
quarter, shaking with merriment.

Of all vulgar, horrid persons," began Aunt
Damaris ; but Florence put her hand on her arm —
"Dear aunt, for goodness sake don't let Captain
Jackson's impertinence anger you. Think how
uncomfortable it would be for us should there be a
quarrel. He cannot be a gentleman to utter such
a remark in a loud voice, and therefore you can
very well afford to take no notice of him."

Gentleman ! " cried the old lady, with her face

glimmering under the blackness of the umbrella like
the reflection of your countenance in a looking-glass
in a dark room, " why, I am beginning to
think that word perfectly horrible. If a captain in
the Royal Navy isn't a gentleman, if the son of a
baronet of ancient family isn't a gentleman, who
ought to be, pray ? And what excellent samples of
gentility the two specimens I mention, prove ! " she
cried, with a perfect writhe in her voice in the
bitterness of the sarcasm she intended ; " the one
falling drunk and using disgraceful language, and
the other shouting out insults to an old lady at the
top of his voice, like a costermonger crying fish ! "

"He cannot moderate his voice," said I; "he
has evidently been used to speaking-trumpets.
However, if you wish it, Miss Hawke, I shall be
glad to make his affront to you a personal one, and
ask him what he meant by his remark."

This seemed to please Aunt Damaris, but Florence
exclaimed, " Please do nothing of the kind. We
cannot be sure that he is ignorant or has no
suspicion of Mr. Morecombe's motive in joining this
ship — at all events, it is best to be on the safe side,
and consider that the secret may not be wholly our
own; and I could never forgive you, aunt, if by
quarrelling with that man, you caused him to make
remarks and hunt about for ideas, and perhaps end
in inventing some horrid story about us."

I laughed in my sleeve to hear her talk in this

way ; she was not very sincere in her alarm, and
Sophie would have called her a sly puss for speaking
thus, but to me it was delicious to listen to her, for
I could see the meaning that lay behind, and how
intimately it concerned her and me. Her words
acted like magic on her aunt.

Well — yes — I think you are right, Florence. It
will be more dignified, Mr. Egerton, to leave the
man alone. So vulgar a mind is sure to be malicious
— and he might invent, you know."

"What's that?" suddenly cried Florence, with
the shadowy outline of her arm pointing into the
east that the swing of the ship in the dead calm
had brought broad on the port beam. I fancied
she exclaimed in this way to abruptly change the
subject, but when I looked, I saw that what had
attracted her was a faint reddish light upon the
sea-line. The water stretched up to it in a surface
of liquid ebony, with here and there the flaming of
a star-reflection in the expanding heaving of the
deep.

Is it a ship on fire ? " said Aunt Damaris, peering
and pecking at it with her face out of the
shadow of the umbrella.

It's the moon rising," I exclaimed.

Just then the low notes of a well-played concertina
struck up on the quarter-deck, and three voices
joined in — a tenor and two women's. I afterwards
heard they were steerage passengers, amongst

those, I mean, who lived under the cuddy ; but they
had never sung on deck before, and though I am
not going to tell you that their singing was that of
first-rate artists, nor that in daylight we should
have found it very moving, yet the effect was perfectly
thrilling amid the dark deep ocean stillness,
broken only by the moaning wash of waters along
the ship's side and the soft flapping of canvas,
whilst the faint red light in the east grew clearer
and lighter until the arch of the crimson orb stood
up over the horizon, stealthily flashing upon the
black deep a blood-like ray that slowly lengthened
as the orb soared, swiftly changing to orange, then
to pearl, then to silver, with an ice-like rim of the
sea just under her. In a few minutes she had shot
high and clear, and her light came along in a kind
of flowing silvery sheen that the eye could watch
the approach of until it was rippling full upon the
ship, transforming her canvas into squares of pearl,
whilst every shadow took a deeper shade, and ice-like
sparkles were kindled in the brass-work and
glass.

Oh, it was a sight most beautiful to see the large
tropical stars in her neighbourhood waning in the
blaze of silver she flung over the wonderful indigo
in which they were poised, and to come down from
them to the fan-shaped glow of mild white light
upon the water trembling like a wake of quicksilver
to the very side of the shadowy ship, whilst

in the soft pure radiance every object that the
eye rested on took a kind of ethereal delicacy,
as if it were a picture that owed its creation to the
moon-gleams ; the shrouds and standing rigging
that were turned towards the light running up into
the glimmer overhead like silver wires, the pale
shining of the sails waning as they soared, until
they looked to dissolve in the airy splendour that
was flowing out of the east, the decks appearing like
white satin with the gloss and sheen upon them ;
and a sharp jetty shadow was cast wherever a
human figure stood or wherever a rope, a mast, ora
yardarm broke the current of light streaming out
of the breathless sky and over the traced deep.

The music ceased on the quarter-deck, and my
darling, whose sweet face I had been watching asher
eyes followed the ascent of the moon out of the
sea, started with a kind of sigh, and exclaimed in a
low voice, " How beautiful ! — how melancholy ! "

I don't see anything very melancholy in it, if
you're talking of the moonrise," said Aunt Damaris;
I consider it very lovely, though I wish it would
bring us some wind. What was that they sung
down there, Mr. Egerton ? A kind of serenade, I
think."

"I believe it was," said I, not having the least
idea. " They chose the right moment to set off,"
and I peeped wistfully at Florence, heartily wishing
Aunt Damaris and her umbrella were off the poop ;

for if ever the melting mood was strong in my
heart's delight it was at that moment, when moonlight
and music and feeling were combined with that
indefinable sadness you feel at sea, when you look
along the breathless leagues of water to where the
haze of the moonlight seems to fall like a veil
from heaven betwixt the watcher and the infinity
beyond.

But Aunt Darnaris remained fast, and the moonbeams
shone in the dew upon the top of her
umbrella. Presently the singing was resumed on
the quarter-deck ; this time by the tenor alone.
His song was " Sally in our Alley," as sweet a
melody as ever mortal composed, and the plaintive
beautiful notes were echoed aloft among the sails
and seemed to float away from them in dying
tones. Most of the passengers aft went to the
break of the poop to listen: and going there myself
to take a peep (though I speedily returned to
Florence), I spied the quarter-deck crowded with
the 'tween-deck and steerage passengers and such
of the crew as formed the watch on deck. In the
midst of the singing, two bells — nine o'clock — were
struck, and the hollow metallic sound rang with
curious effect out of the darkness under the mainmast,
where the shadow of the folds of the hauled
mainsail lay dense.

It is strange," said I, resuming my seat, " how
moonlight gives a kind of strangeness to the most

VOL. II. Y

familiar objects. Mystical is the only word to
express the irradiation. Objects look the mere
spectres of themselves in it, catching, I suppose,
their vagueness and unreality from what after all is
only the ghost or wraith of the light that we live
by — I mean the sun."

It's a very becoming light," said Aunt Damaris.
It confers a chastity on the features which is not
imparted by any other kind of illumination,
though sperm oil is very soft," and I saw her old
eyes fixed on Florence.

"It's a sad light," said my darling : "perhaps
because, as you say," she continued, addressing me
(she was always trying to shirk calling me Mr.
Egerton), " it makes familiar things look unreal,
it throws the hue of death over all that lives "

Pray don't be dreadful, my dear," exclaimed
Aunt Damaris, giving herself a shake. " What
sentimental views girls take of life ! But cadaverous
fancies are not poetical. Dear me ! what a
fearful calm ! Why, if this is to last we shall

never Gracious mercy ! what's that ! " she

cried : and as she uttered the exclamation, she
jumped out of her chair with such force as nearly
to drive her bonnet though the umbrella, which
with the chair went rolling over to the hencoop.

Many strange and stirring sights had I beheld in
my seafaring days ; the heavens in the east a
bright red at midnight ; half-a-dozen waterspouts

illuminated by lightning whirling across the ocean
in a tempest : fifty leviathans of the deep leaping
their black stupendous forms half out of the snow
of the rushing surges off the Falkland Islands ; the
storm-wave like a white wall rolling out of the
pitchy blackness of the horizon ; a cyclone half a
mile in diameter racing past the stern of our ship
in a smooth sea, making the water boil as it went,
but never touching us ; but the like of the sight
that had made Aunt Damaris cry out and jump
from her chair, that had caused me to spring to
my feet as if I had been seared with a red-hot
iron, that had carried the passengers in a rush to
the side of the ship, that had suspended the
singing and all the sounds as if a blight had fallen
and paralyzed and withered up the whole company
of human beings upon our decks, never before had
I encountered.

It was as if the sun had shot out of the dark
star-laden sky overhead, and lighted up the sea to
the nethermost confines of it. I looked where all
the others were looking, and saw a huge flaming
body descending from the heavens, within a few
degrees from the zenith on our starboard hand ;
the brightness of it was the dazzling ardency of
molten steel, when maintained at a white and
blinding heat by a fan-blast ; it resembled a star
falling from its measureless altitude, and growing
into a world as big as this as it approached, kept

furiously burning by its own velocity ; the moonlight
was eclipsed by the splendour ; the sea was a
bright gold under the rushing wonder; our ship
stood out as if a noontide effulgence were upon
her, and the consternation and awe and amazement
that worked in our faces were as clearly to be
seen as when the tropical sun stood over our mast-heads
; no noise accompanied its descent ; the
horror of it, if I may so speak of any one feature
of a spectacle of matchless, thrilling, breathless,
awful beauty lay in the leagues of wild white light
that it threw out, so that above it not a star was to
be seen, whilst the moon, at which I threw a
hurried glance, had changed into a wan greenish
disk, and the sea under her, even in the far-off
east, gleamed like steel to the amazing radiance of
that flaming descending body. Mates, if you have
never seen such a sight as this, don't think I
exaggerate in my description of it. You know that
God's hand is most visible upon the deep, and that
those who are cradled upon its mighty surface
behold His wonders best there. Here was an incomparable
manifestation that I see now, after all
these years, as though it were again happening,
and the awe and the spirit of devotion and the
sense of my human littleness visit me anew with
something of the oppressiveness I then felt as 1
watched that wondrous fiery body sweeping down
the sky. "We held our breath to await the plunge

of it into, the sea, and to hear the mighty hissing
that we expected would follow; hut when it had
reached to about six degrees above the horizon,
being then, as we were all afterwards agreed, not
more than half-a-mile distant from the ship, it
exploded with the stinging crash of a hurst of
thunder that went rolling along past us in a roar
and died away out upon the glassy surface in a
moan ; a thousand glowing fragments leaped for a
breath like an trusting of broken fire from the
mouth of a volcano ; and then the pained, dazzled,
affrighted eye was met by a wave of darkness in
the midst of which there was presently to be seen
a faint bluish-white luminous smoke that hung in a
sort of ring around that part of the air in which
the meteor had vanished until the moonlight overpowered
the spectral thing with its pearly film, and
once more the stars were shining and the sea
tenderly flaming the light of them as it softly
heaved, whilst the ship melted back into the moonlight
phantom she had before resembled, and the
ocean-line ran round in a soft black sweep against
the distant gloom.

All sorts of exclamations now broke forth from
the people on the main and quarter-decks, whilst
the passengers aft closed round Daniel and Mr.
Thornton to talk about the phenomenon, the
sharpest, and apparently the most impressed
questioner being Aunt Damaris. 1 drew off to

where Florence stood near the foremost skylight.


"What do you think of that, my darling, as a
display of fireworks?"

I never saw anything more terrible and splendid.
What could it have been, Jack ? "

"A meteor," said I; "and I should think as
large a one as ever fell."

Oh, listen to Captain Jackson," she exclaimed,
"he is trying to frighten Aunt Damaris."

The passengers made a block of dark shadow
against the rail in the gloom of the mizzen topsail
that the swing of the ship had brought betwixt
them and the moon, and out of the midst of them
came the loud tones of the navy man : " What I
say is, that if that body had struck this ship fair, it
would have knocked us into a cocked hat, doubled
us up, sent us to the bottom of the sea to add to
the stock of human bones there."

Oh, how dreadful ! how fearfully dangerous the
sea is ! " I heard Mrs. Marmaduke Mortimer say.

"It is fearfully dangerous," whispered Aunt
Damaris's saw-like tones; "but I don't believe
that that meteor would have done us much harm
had it struck us. It was soft fire, nothing hard
about it at all ; it would have enveloped us like a
flash of lightning, and perhaps have cracked a
mast ; but as to splitting the ship — I consider such
ideas nonsense."

If it was soft fire' said Mrs. Jackson, jeeriugly,
'pray what made it burst like a bombshell, and
with the noise of a thunderbolt, and how came its
fragments to fly about ? "

That don't prove it was hard," said Daniel.
Lightning's soft fire, as Miss Hawke calls it, but
it's always followed by noise."

'whatever it was," observed Mr. Thompson
Tucker, " I hope it won't occur again. Those
appearances may be interesting to witness from
an observatory, but I'm one of those persons who
can't swim."

Had it struck us," cried Captain Jackson,
you wouldn't have wanted to swim. You wouldn't
have known what hurt you. It would have smashed
us all into jelly-fish, and there'd have been nothing
left afloat but a few hats."

Just now it was to have made bones of us, and
now we were to have become jelly-fish," said Aunt
Damaris. " Captain Thompson, can't you explain
to this gentleman the nature of those fiery bodies,
so that if another should fall he need not feel
alarmed ? "

They're like cats and dogs." I whispered to
Florence. "It's lucky your aunt isn't a man;
we'd have them fighting in dark corners long
before we are up with the Cape."

Oh, she can protect herself," replied Florence,
laughing ; " but it's a thousand pities she should

render herself so unpopular. It makes things very
uncomfortable for me. Mrs. Jackson is barely
civil; you may notice how the others leave aunt
and me alone, instead of joining us as they do one
another*'

So much the better for us, my sweet," said I.
What more could I want than that you and I
should be left utterly alone ? "

She put her hand into mine, and thus we stood
listening to the voices proceeding from the block"
of shadow near the quarter-boat. It is needless
to say that Captain Jackson had witnessed the
fall of a meteor twice the size of the one we had
beheld when he had the honour of commanding
H.M.S. Gocksparrow. "It was in a gale of wind,
blowing great guns ; we were hove to under the lee
clew of the close-reefed main-topsail, making-abominable
weather of it ; it was in the South
Atlantic, in longitude about two degrees west.
Components were burning at our yardarms and
the air was hopeful of electricity. Just before
midnight a meteor of immense size rushed down
from out of the clouds " . and then he went
on to describe the phenomenon we had just seen,
greatly exaggerating its dimensions. I knew Daniel
too well to suppose that he would let him off.

That was a wonderful meteor, Captain Jackson,
at least eight times larger than the one that
dropped close aboard of us north of the Mozambique

Channel, the vessel being a small barque in
which I was an apprentice. It fell at two bells
in the middle watch ; it took ten minutes to drop,
and the blaze it threw out was so brilliant that it
woke up the chief mate, who came on deck with
his sextant, thinking he had mistaken the time and
that it was just before noon. All the cocks started
off a-crowing, and I met the cook coming along to
light the galley fire for breakfast''

"' Do you believe that, Jack ? " whispered
Florence.

'• It's as true as the navy man's yarn," said I.

What dreadful fibs sailors tell ! " she exclaimed.

'captain," said Mrs. O'Brien, "is it likely, do
you suppose, that meteors are pieces of the sun
dropping off and tumbling upon the earth ? The
thought's just come into my head, captain."

"No, ma'am," says Daniel, "there are too
many meteors to make that theory possible ; the
sun would have crumbled out long since, and we
should all be as blind as the fish which live three
thousand fathoms deep under our keel here."

'what makes 'em flame thin?" asked Mrs.
O'Brien.

"Friction," replied Mr, Thompson Tucker;
"they catch fire by rattling through the air so
fast. Why, I suppose now, Captain Jackson, that
one of those bodies would travel at the rate of three
or four miles a minute."

Don't know, I'm sure," replied the navy man,
but the fact of their travelling at all proves that
they are operated on by the laws of gravity, and
consequently have weight in them. Were they
soft fire, as Miss Hawke here says, why, damme,
they'd go up as fire does ; they couldn't comedown"


Then will you tell me," cried Aunt Damaris,
scornfully, " how lightning, that is merely fire
without weight in it, falls down out of the
clouds ? "

Oh, that's a convulsion that's a matter of
electricity — another affair altogether," answered
Captain Jackson, and probably afraid of being
answered by the old lady, he said something to his
wife about the dew, and they stalked off.

Aunt Damaris joined Florence and me, exclaiming
very audibly, as she approached us, "A convulsion !
No wonder he's given up the sea ! Fancy such an
ignorant man as that in charge of a ship of war ! "

Florence begged her not to speak so loud, whilst
I went to pick up the capsized chair and umbrella ;
but she had had enough of the deck, and after
a brief stare round at the beautiful breathless
night, she took my darling's arm and went below.

Chapter Xiii.

OX THE EQUATOR.

If there is one thing that should reconcile a sailor
of the old school to steam it is this : it makes
calms of no consequence. You cannot fully realize
all that that means until 3*011 have been hanging
about the equator for ten days or so under a frying
sun, and on an ocean of molten brass touched her
and there with a draught of air that expires in its
efforts to reach you. Before I started on this
voyage I should have been quite satisfied, for the
sake of being with Florence, had I been told that
it would consist of nothing but dead calms and
headlands. But a week of the doldrums was too
much even for my passion. To look around hour
after hour, morning after morning, day after day.
and behold always the same eternal placid unruffled
heaving, the same deep satin-like blue,
dazzling out into a thin tint that was neither
green nor azure at the ocean line where the
thrilling violet of the sky went down behind it *.

the same throbbing, burning, cloudless luminary
flashing at noon its tremendous fires right straight
down over our heads ; became soul-sickening
before the week had expired. And yet we had
ten days of it !

If }'ou glanced over the side you saw your face
there as clear as ever a mirror would give it back.
If you gazed along the bulwarks you'd notice the
rail of them twisting and writhing along the forecastle
in the giddy breathless atmosphere like the
gliding motion of an eel. If you touched a deck-seam,
whether in or out of the sunshine, the pitch
came up in a string at your finger ends. A bluish
haze hung over the vessel as though she were
smoking as a nature-heap does. The crew
stripped themselves half naked and went about
their work with fiery faces and mossy breasts
glistening with sweat. There was a constant
throwing down of braces and hauling round of
yards ; for the officer of the watch would be
incessantly testing the atmosphere with a moistened
finger, and if he could detect ever so phantomlike
a current of ah* abroad, whether by the feel of
his finger or by the feeble flutter of the vane at the
mast-head, he'd fling an order forward from the
head of the poop ladder, and the yards would be
braced to catch the mockery of a draught. The
decks rumbled with curses ; the sailors abhorred
this exhaling ; what was the good of it, they

thought. Shiver the blooming ship ! was it right
to wring the sweat out of them when the blaze
of sunshine on either side the old hooker was justa
sheet of burnished silver, and when the heave of
the swell never disclosed the faintest wrinkle for
leagues and leagues ? Better snug the light sails
by manning the clew lines and outlines, haul
down the jibs and staysails, and leave nothing
but the topsails to dust themselves against the
masts and wait for the wind to blow.

But for all that, it was this day and night
watchfulness that sneaked us along. Noon would
come, and lo ! we had crawled out eight miles, ten
miles, some such distance, in twenty-four hours,
and the deuce knew how it had been done, for all
day long the stuff which the cook's mate had hove
overboard in the morning, along with an empty
bottle, had hung close, sometimes under the
counter, sometimes under the bow, sometimes
alongside.

I found my account, however, in the deepening
and the strengthening of my darling's love for me.
As a theatre for the improvement and development
of passion a sailing ship may be backed against
all the ball-rooms, country lanes, balconies, small
dull villages, and fashionable watering-places in
the world. In olden times mothers sent their
daughters to India, more assured of their finding
husbands in the tall glazed castles which carried

them round the Cape of Good Hope than on dry
land. Steam has put an end to this ; passages are
too short nowadays to make flirting worth while,
us girls say. But you'd have understood what the
old voyages tended to had you been with us in the
Stmthmore, hanging for ten days under the sun,
with the dead ocean looking like a pavement of
silver under the cathedral dome of the heavens
whose violet it reflected. Why, such was the effect
of it upon us, that before the week was out there
was Thompson Tucker making eyes at modest
Miss Grant, whilst her mother sat by with alarm
depicted on her countenance, but too mild to frown
him down; the Marmaduke Mortimerss grew several
degrees fonder, and the Joycess carried a more
distinctly attached manner in their method of
walking about arm-in-arm. Mr. Alphonso Hawke
was an old stager, had made the voyage between
England and Australia several times, and knew how
the monotony of the sea throws people upon one
another ; and his and Aunt Damaris's scheme for
bringing Florence and Mr. Morecombe together
never struck me more forcibly as a piece of
judgment that might have proved fatal to me
had I been left at home and Morecombe taken my
place, than it did during those ten days of the
doldrums. I remember telling my darling this,
and it made her indignant. " The more I saw
of Mr. Morecombe the more I disliked him,"

she exclaimed. " How can you talk such nonsense,
Jack ? " f

"You undervalue the effect of this calm," said
I. "Behold its influence upon Thompson Tucker.
Were Captain Jackson a single man, I should not
despair of seeing him and Aunt Damaris exchanging
locks of hair. This tedium your father
foresaw, and as I by being out of sight would have

been out of mind " But an earnest beautiful

glance of her deep and speaking eyes brought up
this badinage with a round turn, and in a breath
I was pouring out repentance, vows, gratitude,
love.

All this while her aunt made no sign. I do not
say that she believed that Florence and I were
deeply in love ; when she was present we always
threw a sort of reserve into our behaviour and kept
the full expression of our devotion for the stars ;
but she knew we were constantly together, indeed
she never came on to the poop if Florence happened
to be on deck without finding me with her ; and
therefore she was perfectly well aware that a very
great deal was going on, though she did not know
how much. But she made no objection, she showed
no uneasiness, her manner towards me was always
as full of amiability as her character would allow
her to import into her bearing; whenever she
found us together she would join us, but say
nothing about it either before my face or to

Florence behind my back, behaving, indeed, as if
we were sweethearts and recognized as such by
her.

I once had a talk with Daniel about this. He
found me alone one morning early, fresh from the
head pump where I had got an ordinary seaman
to play upon me for ten minutes with a sluicing
stream of sparkling water out of the blue under the
bows. My friend had come up to look for wind,
and found me whistling for it over the taffrail.
This set us talking of the weather and of old
times, and one thing leading to another, "Well,
Jack," says he presently, "what's the Straihmore
going to do for you in the shape of getting you
a wife ? "

"You see how it goes with us, Daniel," I
answered. " I suppose no fonder couple were ever
found upon the ocean."

"The aunt seems quite willing, I fancy,"
said he.

"It looks so. She likes me as Mr. Egerton :
the question is, will she like me as Jack Sey-mour?"


Any way, among us your secret has been
wonderfully well kept. I never thought you'd
have been able to maintain your alias long. I
reckoned your girl would have split — whipped outwith
it unconsciously — and smothered the whole
blessed job. I suppose if the aunt don't find out

the truth for herself, you'll have to tell her who
you are some of these days. You can't many
under a false name, can you '? "

Of course I can't," said I. " My policy has
been to make Miss Damaris Hawke like me as
Mr. Egerton, and I think I've succeeded."

Is there any chance now of her rounding upon
you as Jack Seymour and ordering you to leave
her niece alone ? " said Daniel.

I can't tell you. If I knew for certain, I'd
heave my alias overboard, for Miss Florence hates
to call me Mr. Egerton — she says it makes her
feel as if she were telling a story — whilst the
masquerading is as little to my taste as to hers."

"There's no doubt," said Daniel, thoughtfully,
"that the aunt don't object to you, as Mr. Egerton,
making love to her niece. That's as clear as mud
in a wineglass. She lets you and Miss Florence
be together, and never interferes that I can see.
That's a sort of victory, isn't it ? If you have the
talent to conquer under false colours, can't you
do so under true ? "

•• Well, you see, Daniel," said I, " it's the false
colours which have given me the advantage by
enabling me to sheer alongside of her without exciting
her suspicion as to the real character of the
apparently friendly stranger."

"But what are your particular charms as Mr.
Egerton?" asked Daniel. "How is it that an

VOL. II. z

alias has allowed you to forge leagues ahead of
your rate of sailing when your father's name was
written bold on your stern and head ? "

"You're asking me questions," said I, "which
are just as much riddles to me as to you. But
I'll tell you my notions : first and foremost, Miss
Florence was sent away out of England in order
to get rid of Jack Seymour. Next, the voyage
was likewise planned to bring her and Morecombe
together. Keep those points in mind. The plot,
so far as Morecombe was concerned, has proved
a dead failure. The aunt hates the name of him,
and he's as completely out of the running as if
he had been sewn up in a hammock and launched
through the gangway. But Jack Seymour is still
ashore ; and the aunt says to herself, ' When my
niece returns — and return she must some of these
fine days — she'll find that fellow waiting for her.
My brother won't like that. He has described the
youth as a common, insulting sailor-chap, and I
for one never could endure such a family connection
as he would make.' So with this thought in
her, d'ye see, Daniel, she plumps up against me,
Mr. John Egerton, a very gentlemanly, well-bred
youth, extraordinarily polite to her, highly complimentary,
the possessor of a decidedly aristocratic
name, and clearly an independent gentleman. She
sees that I have fallen in love with Miss Florence,
and that Miss Florence very much likes me. So

her old mind goes to work, and she says to herself,
< Since Mr.' Morecornbe is quite out of the question,
and since there is very great danger of my niece
renewing her affection for that common person,
-Tack Seymour, when she returns to England,
surely I shall be acting with great judgment in
encouraging the attentions of this very genteel
Mr. Egerton, who, if nothing else comes of it, will
at least wholly displace Mr. Jack Seymour from
my niece's heart.' "

You seem to have hit it," said Daniel, grinning
at me with a kind of admiration ; " hang me if
you haven't taken a header into the old maid's
mind with a vengeance ! But what on earth can
she think of Miss Florence's constancy when she
discovers in a few days that she has clean forgotten
the Jack Seymour who was one of the causes of
her being sent away from home, and fallen in love
with the perfect stranger, Mr. John Egerton ? "

"She has said nothing about it," I replied;
"and I'm not going to bother myself over her
ideas outside those which particularly concern me.
If she reasons at all she'll conclude either that
her niece is a very impressionable girl, or that
Mr. Alphonso Hawke over-emphasized her love
for Jack Seymour."

"If the latter's her notion she won't be afraid
of your girl's renewing her love for Jack Seymour
when she returns home," said Daniel very logically.

"But she can't be sure," said I. " She won't
like to think her brother utterly mistaken. "What
has probably occurred to her is this : that Miss
Florence finds Mr. Egerton more fascinating than
Mr. Seymour, though if she don't get Mr. Egerton
she'll return to the other."

Well, that's very probable," said Daniel.

And you must not lose sight," continued I y
discussing the thing with some enjoyment of it,
for it enabled me to see points which would not
occur to me by thinking to myself, " of the marked
attention I have paid the old lady, the hold I have
on her by professing to have got the story from
Mr. Morecombe, her natural liking for me not
impaired, I daresay, by my cheap little excursion
overboard t'other day, her belief — acquired God
knows how — in my social merits."

"Ay," exclaimed Daniel, "and look how I've
praised you, Jack ! and the Joycess, you know,
speak of you as if you were an angel. But I say ! "
he whipped out with a kind of groan, shewing his
purple face round the sea, "this calm is getting
serious. It'll kill my reputation for despatch. Is
there no wind left in the world ? " and he dodged
over to the compass and flitted restlessly about the
deck, and then, after speaking awhile to the second
mate, he hove a despairing glance aloft and
bundled below.

Letting my thoughts linger a bit over this chat,

I confess .the wonder that he had expressed and
that I had all along felt at the manner in which
my secret had been kept from Aunt Damaris
struck me afresh almost as if it had been new tome.
Never did an old maid's face hold a shrewder
pair of eyes than Alphonso's sister's, and I could
have sworn that her mind was one of the most
suspicious in life ; and therefore, seeing how
quickly Florence had taken to me, and how I had
somewhat of a sailorly cut, spite of my clothes and
my sham ignorance of everything concerning the
sea, and how I was bound to Australia for no
reason whatever that she could find out, I say,
it was strange that she did not make two and
two of all these things, and so guess who I was.
But against this you must put, first, that she had
never seen me as Jack Seymour ; second, that in
all probability I had never been described to her
outside such general terms as old Hawke's abuse
of me conveyed, and which would have nothing todo
with my face, figure, or manners ; third, that
Jack Seymour, being little more than an abstraction
to her, she was not nearly so likely to imagine
the possibility of his following his sweetheart to
sea as would have been the case had she met him
in the flesh as Mr. Hawke had ; fourth, that the
idea of his taking ship with her niece had never
in the faintest possible degree occurred to her ;
fifth, that she would not be aware that Jack

Seymour was unknown by sight, if not more
familiarly, to Mr. Morecombe, and the circumstance,
therefore, of that young man and Mr.
Egerton sharing one berth and conversing as I
pretended Mr. Morecombe had conversed with me,
would tend almost more than anything else to
blind her to the fact that stared her in the face ;
and finally, that being as I reckoned an extremely
suspicious person, she possessed all the qualities
which sentence their possessor to the constant
mortification of being easily tricked.

But to drop all this problemizing for the plain
truth, the calm, as I have said, kept us north
of the line for ten days, and all the changes
which came were a shifting of the colour of the
ocean from the rich azure of the morning to the
tin-like glitter of noon, following on with a
sullen brassy glare as the sun pestered till the
flaming luminary sank into a sheet of gold and
the darkness came, with the Southern Cross hanging
low in the south, and the moon rising later
and redder every night, when it became new again
and a silver slip in the wake of the sun. But on
the afternoon of the tenth day there came a
change ; you took notice of a staring brightness
in the easterly sky against which the white sails
showed yellow, a hollower movement of the swell
and a rounder sweep in the look of the water from
where the ship hung down to the horizon which

showed clear against the firmament in a sickly
paint-like blue from which the eye recoiled. The
sun shone mistily, though the fierceness of his
bite was all but insufferable when you stepped
clear of the awning. The black fins of half a
dozen sharks gleamed out of the oily blue, and had
the imagination gone to work for the right kind
of embellishment for the glazed, thick, sullen
heaving of the swell, it could have hit upon nothing
more appropriate.

They fancy the ship's going to rot through
and let us into the water," said Mr. Thornton tome
; " they're sagacious beasts, and as patient
as the foul fiend himself until what they wait for
is within reach of their grinders. But they'll be
cheated ; there's a squall brewing yonder, and
there'll be a breeze of wind behind it if I'm not
greatly mistaken."

You needed a sailor's eye for atmospheric effect
to understand his meaning when he pointed into
the north-west quarter, and I don't fancy that I
should have noticed the sign myself but for his
indication of it. Then, indeed, it was plain enough
in the sort of blue film that seemed, so to speak,
to be bending the sky down to the sea as if with
the weight of it, though the horizon ran in a sharp
firm line right through it, and after a minute's
gazing one felt it to be the shadow of something
drawing up from behind the ocean and that was

pressing upon the water in a manner to give the
swell a rounder back and a quicker run. By-and-by
a streak of haze floated up and looked white
enough as it stayed there, but when I turned to take
another squint it had changed into a thin brown,
and had spread and risen, the fringe of it resembling
a smear upon the sky and the sea under
it taking a sort of olive tint which brightened out
into blue south and north-east.

Aunt Damaris came on deck armed with a large
fan; presently Florence arrived. I placed chairs
for them, and said with the artlessness of a landsman,
" Mr. Thornton thinks we're going to have
a squall."

Thank goodness ! " exclaimed Aunt Damaris.
And pray where is it to come from ? "

"Yonder, he says," and I pointed to the gathering
thickness.

What is a squall ? " asked Mrs. Marniaduke
Mortimer who was sitting near, her husband fora
wonder not being with her.

A sudden burst of wind," replied Aunt Damaris
in her sharp manner.

"Nothing dangerous, I hope?" said Mrs.
Mortimer, looking right up overhead into the sky.

The burst won't come from there," said Aunt
Damaris, "but from the end of the sea yonder;"
and she extended her lean hand that sparkled with

"Ob, I see!" cried the newly-married wife

effusively. " Oh, Mr. Egerton, do look at those
yellow patches upon the fog there ! Are they not
like sunflowers growing in a garden bed."

The sunshine was blazing slantingly upon the
rising bodies of vapour, and brightening the brows
of them with a sulphur-coloured radiance. The
effect was striking, almost wild, for the dark green
weltering of the sea under the thickness gave a
malignant hint of storm to the look of the heavens
there, and the dry yellow gleaming in the van of
the coming outburst was just the colour a painter
would have chosen for heightening the sullen
meaning of the fast rising darkness. In a few
minutes this appearance vanished, and the vapour
thickened up like the pouring of a factory chimney
kept low by the rarefaction of the atmosphere. The
swell had increased in volume with amazing
rapidity, and the deep ship rolled and wallowed
in it as if she had a mind to spring every spar in
her. The beating of the canvas was like the continuous
discharge of small cannons. You saw T the
people on the main deck stumbling and lurching,
and clinging convulsively as they tried to pass
along, and every now and again a flash of smoke-like
spray swept on board through a scupper hole
as the ship buried her side. During one heavy
roll I barely missed stopping Aunt Damaris from
tumbling heels over head with her chair ; she was

all but gone when I flung my shoulder against her
and shored her up. This, coupled with the fast
spreading gloom and the wild qualification and
the fierce creaking of flapping noises, frightened
her.

Captain ! " she screamed out to Daniel, " what
is the meaning of this ? Is it to be a squall or
tempest? Don't deceive me. I know the difference,
sir."

Nothing to cause you any alarm, Miss Hawke,"
answered the skipper, who stood looking at the
weather past the starboard quarter-boat, and he
then gave some orders to the chief mate. One
might tell he guessed that the worst of whatever
was coming lay in the look of it, for all that Mr.
Thornton sung out was to clew up the royal, haul
down the flying jib, haul up the mainsail and stand
by the topgallant halliards. " "When the rain
before the wind, then your topsail halliards mind'
chants the forecastle poet ; and here was the wind
coming first. The swelling vapour rolled up until
it looked all the way to starboard like the loom of
cliffs thousands of feet high, while the scud, like
dust off the floor under the flourishing of a broom,
blew out in pale yellow volumes from under the
compacter masses, and was floating overhead and
dimming the sky into the east, with the sun
amongst it a shapeless sickly blotch of light, before
ever a breath of air could be seen soiling the

polished surface of the mountainous swell. Maybe
the wind was waiting for the signal ; it came in
the shape of a copper-like glare of lightning that
more resembled the cloud's reflection of a solid
sheet of fire than the whizz of an electric spark ;
and to the tune of the rumbling of thunder rushed
the wind, blowing the gloom left and right, and
creating appearance like what they call ox-e} T es in
it, spaces of light that grew from points into yawning
gaps, as though the squall was driving down
upon us through tunnels in the sky.

"Look!" cried I to Florence; "how you may r
see the wind before there is draught enough to
extinguish a candle ! "

I took her to the rail to watch, whilst Aunt
Damaris clawed her way to the companion, on the
top steps of which she stood with her sharp nose
forking out beyond the hood, and pecking as it
might be at the coming squall. It was a fine sight
to see the wind rushing along the tops of the swell,
flashing white in the hollows, and sweeping with a
yell over the brows in a scattering of spray. It
looked to advance in the form of an arch, with the
legs spreading out from south-west to north-east,
and the lifting of the white water under the shearing
of it made Daniel reckon there was more in it
than he had supposed.

"Let go the topgallant halliards ! " he sung out.
"Hands by the fore and mizzen topsail halliards!"

And as the yards aloft came running down, with a
second brilliant gleam of lightning the squall burst
upon the ship and down she leaned to it, motionless
for a space, with the smooth water under her lee
bubbling and churning half-way up the bulwarks.
I had my darling by this time snug under the starboard
quarter-boat, for there was no rain in sight
as yet, and I wanted her to see the squall, and the
boat under which we stood split the wind and sentit
screaming clear of us over our heads. Aunt
Damaris had vanished, but the other passengers,
ladies and gentlemen, held their ground and looked
on with interest at a scene full of excitement and
commotion, and welcome, God knows, as the first
honest break in the ten days of rankling, stewing
calm. The helm had been put hard over, and the
ship was slowly paying off as she began to stir
after the first heavy lean-down : but Lord ! the
shindy aloft ; sails thundering, masts jumping, the
gloom as if it were cloud flying through the rigging
mingled with a glancing of spume ; the crew
sprawling about, Mr. Thornton bawling, Daniel
excitedly gesticulating at the wheel. Why, I daresay
some of the poor 'tween deck folks thought it
was all up with us, when, in reality, it was a mere
equatorial squall with the worst of it in its teeth,
which were soon to leeward of us, and a sprinkling
of rain and a fresh breeze to follow.

There is no finer sight, I think, than a full-rigged

ship offers when she is in the act of paying off,
heeling over, with a fierce outfly of wind screeching
past her. Her lee-rigging hangs slack over the
white water ; her sails swell out in cloud-like
shapes through the outlines and upon the lowered
yards : you note the gradual recovery of the heavy
slant of her masts, as with a slow sweep of her
jibhooms she settles the wind further and further-aft
yet, until yielding to the full impulse of the
blast, with a long hissing plunge she takes the first
of the seas, and like a fleeing madwoman whose
tresses stream from her head and whose raiment
has the wildness of a witch's as she runs, the ship
rushes forward as though she were the very spirit
of the storm whose darkness is upon her and
whose ravings pierce the ear from her rigging.
Several bright flashes of lightning illuminated the
heaving snow-like path of the vessel as she headed
with the squall and sped for a space on the wings
of it. All was flying darkness for awhile, with a
roll of thunder playing through as though it would
give a tornado-note to the outburst ; but in about
ten minutes the weight of the wind sensibly
diminished, and while the helm was put down to
bring the Stratford to her course, I had just time
to hand Florence to the companion, when wash
came the rain in a bright sheet, crushing out the
wind as if by magic, and leaving the ship slapping
her wet canvas upon the heavy swell, whilst

through the grey deluge to leeward you could catch
sight of the white water under the clouds passing
away in a whirl of gloom. The rain ceased as
suddenly as the wind had expired ; the windward
darkness lightened, and a marble-like streak of
blue opened betwixt the main and mizzen topsail
yardarm ; a wet gleam of sunshine danced along
the weltering ocean boundary, and broadening fast
flashed up the whole expanse of the deep in the
south-west, exposing the glorious blue of it crispin
under the breeze that was sure to follow the
squall, and making the passing thickness look like
a solid shadow upon the sea, shot with a malignant
lustre like the bluish tints on battle-smoke,
and spanned by a brilliantly rich rainbow through
whose exquisitely coloured arch you seemed to
gaze on the very darkness of night itself. Ina
few minutes the welcome breeze was blowing
merrily through our rigging, the songs of the
sailors rose as they masthead the yards, ordinary
seamen sprawled about, heavily slapping the decks
with swabs, and with her wet planks sparkling in
the sunshine and her canvas drying from grey into
white, the Strath snore rolling heavily and gracefully
over the long swell, a line of yeasty foam slipping
past her glossy sides, looked to have settled herself
fairly down at last for the passage of the equator
upon whose northern skirts she had been hanging
like a dead thing for ten days.

We crossed the line in nineteen degrees west
longitude', carrying a pleasant sailing breeze with
us a trifle abaft our starboard beam, and the ship
was just a pile of canvas with five stun sails out,
the lower staysail yawning wide over the swinging-boom
guyed forward, and' every cloth pulling
steadily whilst the white trucks swung like silver
buttons under the floating clouds which gleamed
like the inside of oyster-shells as they sprung
sweet and fresh from the deep blue sea and sailed
up the azure on the road the sun was taking. In
my time, when the equator was crossed on the
outward passage to Australia, there would be a
stir among the passengers as if they began to consider,
at last, that there was a chance some of
these line days of the voyage coming to an end.
The running large before the north-east trades is
hopeful, but sometimes you will get a dreary
sickener betwixt the Channel and the parallel
where the steady breeze is picked up ; and then
perhaps follows the deadly pause upon the glassy
equatorial sea, where the water dies out in haze
and the sun finds a blazing mirror whereto he
combs his flaming beard as he drives on his tour
round the world. But the North Atlantic past,
hope grows brisk as the south-east trades are
approached. The Cape is not very far off now,
you think : and then hurrah for an easterly course
across the mighty Southern Ocean.

I can answer for the influence of latitude south
upon the spirits of the St hath move's passengers.
We grew more cordial. If there was any ill-feelings
was betwixt Aunt Damaris and Captain Jackson
and his wife. Not that the others liked the old
lady very much, "but they would come up and talk
to her, and she would converse with them more or
less politely according to the temper she happened
to be in. But she and the Jacksons had nothing
to say to one another. This no doubt indirectly
helped my case, for the aversion among them made
the old lady guess that the navy man and his helpmate
would not show her much mercy were they
to hear all about the cause of Morecombe's joining
the ship ; and many a time would I think, as I
peered at Aunt Damaris, " If you only knew who I
was, if you could only conceive the additions the
story would gain by the simple disclosure of the
truth from me to the Jacksons, there'd be no bulkhead
in this ship thick enough for you to hide
behind'

Friendlier feelings arising with our progress,
various amusements were planned. The steerage
passenger singers were invited on the poop, and
obliged us with a very pretty little concert. Then
the 'tween-deck passengers gave a ball upon the
main-deck that lasted through the dog watches ;
a fiddle was brought out of the forecastle, the
fellow who played it seated himself on the drum

of the quarter-deck capstan, some rum was brought
up at the expense of us aft and distributed, diluted,
in wineglassfuls amongst the poor people, and we
sat at the brake of the poop looking down on as
lively a scene as ever kept folks happy and laughing
at sea. I see the picture now ; Jack Fiddler
sawing away with an occasional squirt of tobacco
juice over his right shoulder, men and women
dancing to his strains, the children frolicking
amongst them, the crew looking on from the district
of the galley with bronzed grinning faces, till the
night fell upon us all with a hurried sweeping
embrace of the sea with her shadowy arms and the
stars looked down at us through the rope-ladders.

Then the crew would furnish us with some
diversion by turning up to dance a little bit of a
Dane, a rat of a man, with eyes like a ferret, and
a face with an expression upon it such as you'll see
sometimes in the gunpowder pricking of sailors
upon seamen's arms and breasts. This little
fellow was the best hornpipe dancer I ever saw in
my life. I never before, and have never since met
his equal. He would dress himself up to resemble
a man-of-warsman, grass hat on nine hairs, his
tawny breast bare to his belt, flowing white pants
and low shoes with heels which rattled the planks
like castanets. The fiddler would crawl upon the
booms, and the Dane take his stand upon the
weather side of the forecastle at the head of the

VOL. IE. 2 A

ladder, so that we could see hin plain under the
weather clew of the mainsail that was hauled up ;
and when all was ready and the fiddle began to
squeak, off would go the Dane, footing it as no
landsman in this world ever did ; no, though he
had passed his whole life in doing nothing else ;
his pace was noble, the twinkling of his feet
miraculous, and to see him there with his head
floating like a bubble on his shoulders, his arms
crossed on his bosom, and a rapping coming from
under him like a roll upon a drum, with a graceful
leap hear and there, and a sedate march round,
and a face all the while as solemn as a mute, was
to behold the hornpipe danced as only a sailor
knows how.

This delighted Florence more than anything else.
Her pulse seemed to keep time to the ocean dance,
and I would catch her watching with a glistening
eye as you'll see it in people who find more in a
thing than it looks to have. You see we had the
right kind of setting for that picture ; no footlights,
no groups of stage mountebanks, nor painted
rigging leading heavens know where ; but the
deep blue white-flecked sea, melting into an
evening richness of tint — for these were dog-watch
sports, of course — and the fountain-like sound
of bubbles and foam coming up over the sides,
and the white decks, with the red sunshine lying-in
pools of light among the shadows, and the

groups of rough seamen, simple-hearted as children,
smoking' and watching on the forecastle, and
somehow causing you to raise your eyes from their
dark faces to those lofty spars up and down which
they were always travelling, where the sails shone
like swelling spaces of yellow satin in the hot
gleam of the sinking luminary whose radiance
touched the greased masts until they looked to
be made of amber.

Once we went so far as to shake a foot among
ourselves on the poop. The steerage passengers
made the music for us, and we got through several
quadrilles and a waltz or two capitally. For one of
the square dances I had Aunt Damans as a
partner, with Daniel and Mrs. O'Brien to face us.
I doubt if the old lady would have consented to
dance with anybody else; and on the whole I
afterwards considered that I had run a great risk
in asking her, as she was more likely than not to
fly in my face with the suspicion that I desired
to make her ridiculous. But so far from resenting
my politeness, she appeared struck and
gratified with it. " It's some years now since I have
danced," said she, with a sort of simper that would
have been exquisitely diverting in some Dresden
china comedy of the old school ; and you could see
that she was remembering the time when she
danced often, and when there were partners and
to spare for her. She did not hang in the wind

long; I gave her my arm, and then Daniel and
Mrs. O'Brien, and Thompson Tucker and Miss
Grant, and Mr. Joyce and Florence posted themselves,
the concertina twanged, and we started.
You'll reckon that the decks were pretty steady, and
that was so. There was the long ocean swell
always hollowing and rounding under our forefoot ;
but a steady breeze was in the sails, every sheet
was eased well off, and the ship went along-upright;
her curtsies only made our heels the
nimbler. Aunt Damaris and Mrs. O'Brien matched
each other well for airs and graces. The Irish
lady was as stout as my partner was lean ; and
they behaved as if they were on the floor of an
amphitheatre with galleries running up to the
sky full of spectators. Their self-consciousness
was something to live in the memory, like the
meteor we had seen, or the sea-serpent. "With
slightly lifted dress to give room for their pointed
toes, they went to work as if George III. was on
the throne, curtseying and smirking, though my
partner was the more old-fashioned ; she seemed
to bring up a smell of lavender on the poop, and,
to have done her justice, I needed small and a
frill. Mrs. O'Brien gave us a taste of Castle airs,
for she had danced at that court I heard her tell
Daniel (who looked as though he did not understand
her by the way), and all that she required to
complete her amazing carriage was a bundle of

feathers, on the top of her head and a bronze-coloured
dress to glisten as her fat form rose and
fell inside it. To turn from her to Florence ! to
glance from that broad homely Irish countenance,
with its long stretch betwixt the nose and the upper
lip. and the small, bright, self-satisfied, black eyes,
to the pet of my heart, lovely always, whether in
sunshine or starlight, flinging a kind of poetry round
her upon the rudest and homeliest details of the
ship's furniture by the magic power of beautifying
with the surpassing grace of her form the gleam
of her deep sweet eyes, the glint of her hair, the
snowlike flash and sparkle of her motioning, un-gloved
hands, whatever was near her, aye, though
it were even Daniel's northwest face or the lean
acidulated features of her aunt — why, I say, it was
worth keeping your eye fixed for a spell on Mrs.
O'Brien for the delight you found in turning it
afterwards upon Florence Hawke. You may reckon
I danced with her; one waltz we had — sailors are
noble partners, ladies, in round dances : — and as
we floated round the skylights up to the man at.
the wheel and back again to the break of the poop,
revolving as if we were a couple of angels bent
upon finding Paradise in the strains of a concertina
and upon the white planks of a ships deck, you
may take it that my hold of her waist was something
more than a dancer's grip ; and so well were we
matched in our footing, every movement pairing as

the albatross resting on the wing swings in unison
to the speeding of the surges, that we talked into
one another's ears as we danced as comfortably
and as eloquently as if we were seated and no one
was by.
But these merry-makings did not cover many

END OF VOL. II.

LONDON: Printed BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS', LIMITED,
STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.

m^-

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS

v.o

A SAILORS YARN OF LOVE AND
SHIPWRECK.

BY

W. CLAEK RUSSELL,

.THOn OF "THE ' Lady Maud'" "A SEA Queen," ETC.

JN TEBEE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

LONDON:

SAMPSON LOW, Marston, Searle & Livingston,

CROWN BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET STREET.

1884.

(sall rights reserved.)

Tainted BY William Cleaves AND SONS, LIJIlTrP,

Stafford Street AND Cleaning Cross.

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

cirArTKi: page

I. An Ocean Incident . . . . 1

II. In the Southern Ocean . . . 'Si:

III. Collision . . . . . 00

IV. Waiting . . . . . y*->

V. The Night Passes . . . ••. 117

VI. The last of the " Stratford ' . . 13G

VII. Land-Ho! . . . . ••• 1^^

VIII. St. Paul's Island l«<j

IX. A Hopeless Position . . . . 217

X. Solitude . . . . . 243

XL Help 258

XII. We leave the Island . . 287

XIII. Struggling Eastwards . . . ''>09

XIV. PtESCUED 330

XV. What will Mr. Hawke say? . . . 36G

CHAPTER I.

AX OCEAN INCIDENT.

Shortly before we took the south-east trades, and
we were then in about six degrees south of the
equator, there befell us one of those things which
the sea, who is the mother of surprises, is always
plentifully offering to those who furrow her broad
bosom. Fine weather and pleasant breezes had
accompanied us down to that point, and sometimes
we were swarming along with stun sails out on
either side and sometimes with the yards braced
sharp up and the bowlines taut as fiddle-strings,
but always nevertheless managing to lie our course,
whilst ever night found the southern constellations
creeping higher and higher. But one morning
there came a change, and arriving on deck after
breakfast I found the ship in as thick a bank of

"^'liite vapour as ever rolled down and obscured
the sea. Forward the vessel was clean out of
sight in it : what there was of her in that way
was just a shadow like a darkish reflection upon
a cloud of steam ; and this shadow came oozing
out of the smother as it might be, until, abreast
of the mainmast it broke into the reality of the
ship, with the black shrouds vanishing in it a few
beards above the shear-poles, and the mainmast
shooting into it and looking to be broken short
off on a line where the rigging vanished, whilst
the mainland was a dim black streak from which
the great sail came down grey out of the faintness
till the clews of it were clear things along with the
foot stretched transversely from sheet to tack above
the bulwarks.

There was a breeze of wind blowing, though you
would have dreamt of a dead calm in such a
featherbed as that. As nothing was visible above
the maintain I couldn't tell what sail the ship) was
under ; but there were enough fakes in the coil of
the main royal halliards to make me guess the
yard that rope belonged to was hoisted ; and
apparently therefore we were driving along through
this white night under all plain sail. I put my
head over the side where the visible water stretched
perhaps a dozen fathoms wide, and watching the
foam-feathers passing in the space of gleaming
steel, — for the fog gave what was to be seen of the

sea that colour, — judged our rate of speed to be
about five-and-a-half knots. The ocean was
smooth, with an easterly swell that came swinging
along out of the thickness on our beam, so that the
water rounded up on a sudden whenever join
looked and drew down into a hollow in the same
way, making a strangeness of the familiar things
owing to the liquid gambolling being to 'the
vision limited to a sphere that was not more
than half the width of any one fold. When you
looked aft from the break of the poop, the helmsman
was a smudge on the white blinding obscurity.
It was like being in a vapour bath for the temperature
; nothing unpleasant to the feeling of the
flesh, but a rare confusion to the eye, and a
sort of bewilderment to the ear too, for the noise
of the wind blowing into the stretched canvas
was aloft, but you couldn't see what was producing
it, and the cool sound of little breaking surges
running on top of the swell was all around, though
not a glimpse of the water was to be got unless you
put your head over the rail and looked right down.
Daniel I had descried abreast of the weather
spanker-vang smoking a cigar when I came through
the companion, and the second mate, who had
charge of the watch, kept a look out from the head
of the poop-ladder. I joined my friend and exclaimed,
" Here's a smother ! how long has this been
on us ? "

Two hours," he repHed/

Nothing in sight before it drew up, I hope ? "

Nothing," he answered. *' Let that console
you as a passenger."

"I ask as a passenger," said I. "I have
knocked off the sea and am now afraid of danger.
That's a sign I'm getting old, Daniel. Have you
got a light in your pocket ? "

He handed me his cigar, which I ruined by
thrusting the red end of it into my pipe. " Confound
you! " he exclaimed, chucking it away and
lighting another : " there goes sixpenn'orth of
lovely Savannah tobacco. Where's your sweetheart.
Jack ? Man, you should show her this fog.
D'ye know there's a deal to behold in things you
can't see ? '*

"I'm hoping she'll come on deck, but I don't
think I ought to fetch her," I replied. "Mustn't
act aggressively, you know ; mustn't do anything
to cause dear Damaris to put her foot down ; though
upon my word I really have nothing to complain of.
She's conferred abounding privileges upon me, all
things considered. I believed her to be an old
Tartar, and so she is, for she behaved as one at
Clifton, where she took Miss Florence under her
protection, and stuck to her skirts to keep oft* that
villain Jack Seymour. How Mr. Egerton has
made his way so promptly and successfully with
her beats my time. It ought to make me mighty

conceited, for there must be something about me —
some charm, eh, Daniel — call it if you please the
union of high breeding with a singularly handsome
count "

Hallo ! " bawled the trumpet notes of Captain
Jackson, who forked up through the companion at
that moment. " What's this, captain ? A fog ? "

"Yes, a dense fog," replied Thompson.

The navy man stepped up to us, peered at the
compass, cast a glance aloft, and looked into the
windward mist that seemed to be boiling as it blew
along in whirling impervious clouds. "I suppose,
captain," said he, 'you are pretty sure of nothing
being in the road to plump into hereabouts ? "

"Oh, sure enough," answered Daniel quietly,
who always somehow managed to fend off the
marine patronage Captain Jackson tried from time
to time to bestow upon him, without being in the
least degree marked in his method of doing so.

"What's our pace?" said Captain Jackson,
going to the side and looking over. "Five-and-a
half or six, I should say. Humph ! fast walking
for a blind ship, captain."

"Oh, the faster we sail, the sooner we shall get
clear of this thickness," answered Daniel.

The devil of a fog of this density is," said
Captain Jackson, talking as if he were hailing the
forecastle, "that it makes a look-out of no use.
There's no seeing what's ahead imtil you're into

VOL.iii. ^L C



it. I remember, many years ago, when smothered
up in this fashion in the Gulf of Guinea in H.M.S.
Diver, Cape Palmas bearing north-north-west, and a
trifle of wind blowing that sent us watching along
at about three-and-a-half to four mile an hour, the
first lieutenant, who, by the way, was a son of the
Earl of Worthing, as fine a seaman •"

But at that moment I caught sight of Florence
standing in the companion-way, and left Captain
Jackson and his yarn to join her.

Come along," said I, putting my pipe in my
pocket and giving her my hand ; " there is nothing
in this fog to harm you."

She stepped on to the deck, looking with wonder
at the fragment of ship that was visible, at the
masts vanishing under the tops, and at the figure
of the second mate, who, though he stood near the
break of the poop, was little more than a smudge
even at that distance.

'' Am I the only lady on deck ? " she asked.

Yes, but what does that matter ? No fear of
Aunt Damaris emerging, I su2Dj)ose, darling ? "

Not the slightest. But the denseness of the fog
is not imagined in the cuddy. How extraordinarily
white and light it is, Jack ! It might be steam."

That's because there's a blue sky over it and a
tropical sun pouring full into it. Take my arm,
will you ? I shan't let you remain long enough to
get damp."

A fog ashore is nothing : it comes down and
stands against the windows, white or brown or
yellow, and you might as well sit with the blinds
pulled down for all the wonder that's to be found in
the vapoury envelopment. But on the ocean such
a fog as this we were sailing through is something
that comes very near to being a phenomenon,
owing .to the strange picture it makes of the ship
and the glimpse of water it enables you to catch.
I took Florence to the break of the poop, and when
she looked behind her. Captain Jackson and Daniel,
and the man at the wheel were scarcely perceptible
outlines in the folds of steam which boiled along
abaft the mizzen mast. Forward we could just
make out the galley and the shadow of the ,
melting into the soft cobweb-like blankness.
Between was the great main hatch, the mainmast
gleaming against the grey space of sail, with
a few 'tween-deck passengers moving about in a
kind of blind way and staring aloft for a sight of
the familiar canvas of which not a fragment could
be seen above the foot of the topsails unless you
accepted a little darkening in the fog up therefor
it.

Is it not dangerous to be sailing through this
mist ? " said my darling, speaking low, as though
there were something in this thick, steamy environment
that subdued her.

'' Not in this great ocean," said I. " It would be

another matter in the English Channel. But here
you have open sea for thousands of miles ; besides,
Thompson told me there was nothing in sight when
the fog came up two or three hours since."

She drew me to the lee rail to watch the passing
water. The gleam of it had the appearance of ice
with snowflakes whirling along its slippery surface.
The swell lifted out of the blankness and seemed
to heave up the fog as though it were a tangible
thing, a solid substance ; but when the vessel lay
down again to the breeze after the weather-rolls
the vapour thickened down again into the hollow,
and the contrast of its whiteness lying against the
gloom of the trough made the water over the side
look thirty or forty feet beneath us.

"We were bending together thus over the side
watching the snow-like froth seething and eddying
past, and listening to the hissing of the cutwater
ripping through the swell in the thickness ahead,
when all on a sudden, and in a manner that made
the thing appear to us like the coinage of our
fancy, there leapt out of the white dense folds
abreast of the lee foregoing, and at a distance of
about fifteen feet from the ship's side, an open
boat with two men seated on the thwarts, and the
figure of a third man, apparently dead, lyme in
her bottom. Confounding to the senses as such a
sudden apparition as this was, I could not have
mastered every point of the object more completely

had I had half-an-hour's time given to me to inspect
her. She was apparently a small vessel's quarter -
boat, painted blue, with white stern sheets and
thwarts. The two living men in her were dressed
in shirts and dungaree trousers, one in a Scotch
cap, the other bareheaded ; the fellow at the bottom
looked just a dark streaming suit of clothes with
the hair plastered over his eyes. The man in the
Scotch cap seeing us, cried out, " For God's sake,
heave to and save us ! " And the white,
passionately appealing faces of the poor fellows
looking up, gleamed for a breath betwixt the opening
in the vapour as we shot by, and then boat and
men vanished like a tricked soajD-bubble.

Nobody had heard the despairs shout save
Florence and I. In an instant I bounded aft to the
binnacle and took the bearings of the boat, and
then at the top of my voice I shouted to Thompson,
We have just passed a ship's quarter-boat adrift
with three men in her. She'll bear north by west
at this moment ! " There was no occasion to say
more : besides, the news came from a man who
Daniel would well know was not likely to be mistaken
in making such a report. An order was
bawled along the deck, the helm was put down, the
watch came rushing aft, apparently not knowing
what was the matter, and fancying, maybe, that
somebody had tumbled overboard, and amid a
stamping of feet and the creeping of truss and

parrel and block, the main topsail was laid to the
mast, and the ship brought to a stand.

There had been no loss of time over this job,
and the boat was therefore bound to be well within
half-a-mile distant from us. As to groping for her,
why, if we did not sink her by running over her,
there were a thousand chances in favour of our
missing and losing her outright by re Aching : * so we
could not do better than lie to and wait for the
weather to clear. Thompson sung out to an
apprentice to fetch his speaking-trumpet, and then
jumping on to the rail, he called to me, " How do
you say she'll bear ? "

*' About north by west," I answered, very nearly
adding the regular routine " sir," so strong was the
old professional habit when directly challenged in
this way. He pointed his trumpet down into that
quarter and roared through it, " Boat ahoy!" We
strained our ears against the white blankness.
The sound of the weltering of the hidden waters
came out of the fog dimly and strangely along
with the gurgling, sobbing, sloppy wash alongside,
and down from aloft floated the straining noise of
gear and the creak of a spar and the pattering of
reef-points. It was scarcely reasonable to hope
that the hail would be answered ; the boat would
be too far off and the wind in the teeth of the fellow
who answered. But to hail was the right thing to

Or beating. Reacliino- or watching is sailing close to the wind

do as an experiment ; and not the faintest echo of
a human voice penetrating up to us through the
dense vapour, Daniel raised his trumpet again and
bawled, " Boat ahoy ! we've hove to for you. Save
your drift as much as possible ; we'll pick you wp
when it clears." And springing on to the deck he
exclaimed, "There! if they've heard me, it'll
comfort them ; if not, they're no worse off. They
can't be very far distant, and we're bound to have
them when this boiling is blown away."

They'll have heard you plain enough," said I;
I'll warrant that. They're not many ships-lengths
off."

By this time, as you may suppose, mates, everybody
from the forecastle to the stern cabins had
bundled on deck to learn what the commotion
signified. From where I stood right aft I could
just make out the lee poop-ladder and bulwarks
near it black with people all staring into the fog,
some of them being halfway up the main rigging.
If the ship looked strange before, she made a wild
sight now with that crowd glooming through the fog
and the forward decks so wholly obscured that the
vessel seemed to end at the mainmast where the
steerage and 'tween-deck passengers and crew had
congregated. We who belonged aft stood in a lump
near the wheel, the ladies firing off whole broadsides
of questions, the greater portion of which
Captain Jackson took upon himself to answer.



Aunt Damaris, holding a pocket-handkerchief to
her mouth, removing it only to speak, instantly
spied me and hauled alongside, and then Florence
joined us.

"What is the matter, Mr. Egerton? " cried th
old lady.

'' Your niece and I just sighted a heat containing
three men. She is out there somewhere," said I,
pointing into the dense white cloud.

"A boat containing three men ! " she exclaimed;
'' how could you sight her ? It's impossible to see
a yard ! " I explained. *' Oh dear me ! And they
glided past — one dead, 3-ou think? How terrible!"
she cried. "Why, gracious goodness ! what a
suffocating part of the ocean the captain appears to
have steered us into. I never heard of such a
thing as a fog in this part of the sea. Do you
think, Mr. Egerton, we're actually in the place
we're supposed to be in '? But how should you
know? Captain," she called out to Daniel, "it's
very strange to meet with such a dreadful fog as
this here, isn't it ? We did not encounter anything
of this kind in coming to England, and
never before, either in coming or going, have I
been in such a mist in the tropics."

"It'll be clearing off presently, Miss Hawke,"
said Daniel.

They're common enough hereabouts and everywhere
else," trumpeted Captain Jackson, addressing

nobody in particular : '^ there's nothing tope afraid
of — specially now that we're hove to."

"Fire!" cried Daniel; and I perceived Mr.
Thornton aiming a rifle into the air. He had
brought it from below whilst I had been talking
to Aunt Damaris, and when Daniel sung out
"fire! " the mate pulled the trigger. The smart
report was followed by several squeals from the
ladies ; Aunt Damaris, indeed, who like most of
the others had not noticed the weapon in Mr.
Thornton's hand, absolutely yelled, and catching
hold of my arm, clung tightly. " That signal
repeated every five minutes will enable them to
keep in our neighbourhood," exclaimed Daniel
coolly, taking the cries which had followed the
explosion for granted, and hardly guessing perhaps,
that he would have acted politely in requesting the
ladies to look out for it.

"Is that horrid gun going to be let off again,
Mr. Egerton ? " cried Aunt Damaris, in a terrified
voice.

Every five minutes, just to comfort those poor
fellows out there," said I.

"I hate firing," she exclaimed; "first to be
suffocated and then to be stunned. I'll go downstairs
again, Mr. Egerton." I conveyed her in
the politest manner to the companion, and then
returned to Florence.

If my darling had not a sailor's heart, she had a

sailor's sympathy sith Jack, and understood his
anguish just as she understood his pleasures, as
only a woman can who loves sailors for the noble
calling they created and perpetuate. You'd have
understood what I mean had you heard her making
conjectures to me about the poor fellows we had
seen. Why, to the others it was a sort of horror
without any clear meaning : a boat adrift with
three men in it, one perhaps dead, and that was
all. But Florence thought of it as I did — as any
other seaman in that ship would — without even a
hint from me either. For how many days and
nights might they not have been tossing about in
that little boat ? They might be dying of famine
and thirst. If that was a dead man in the bottom
of the tiny craft, who could imagine the sum of the
agonies that had made a corpse of him at last ?
'•' Oh, Jack, will it not have broken their hearts to
see this ship vanish ? I shall go to my death-bed
seeing those dreadful white faces ! It T\"as like a
shocking dream, to be looking at the water and
then see that little freight of human misery sweep)
by. Are we sure to rescue them, Jack ? "

1 hope so — I think so — indeed I am sure.
They had oars, and may try to head this way when
they hear that gun fired."

*' It is too dreadful to think of them, starving
perhaps and dying, alone out there in that fearful
blank — one cannot realize what they are feeling —

and yet one can imagine their heart-breaking
expectation, their prayer to God for succour as
they look into this Winding fog."

Mr. Thornton fired a second time. The other
ladies took care to back some distance away, but
Florence stood close with me, eagerly striving to
pierce the obscurity, and exclaiming, "Will they
be able to hear it, Jack ? Can nothing more be
done ? "

Never, boys, had my heart gone so close to hers
as then whilst I watched her glistening eyes, the
beautiful touching anxiety in the trembling of her
lips, the sweet contraction of her white brows, her
forward-leaning, listening posture, as though by
the sheer power of her true, tender womanly soul
that was with those lonely, blinded, hidden sailors,
she would draw their boat within the sphere of our
vision.

We had been lying hove-to in this fashion for
about twenty minutes while Mr. Thornton let fly
this rifle at intervals, pulling the cartridges out of
his side pocket as though they were sugar-plums ina
bag there, when on a sudden the thickness in the
very quarter we were all peering into thinned away
down into a kind of bluish shining, as though the
light off the sea was working through ; it was buta
wide flaw indeed, but as it hung for a few minutes,
it gave us a sight of the boat about two hundred
fathoms distant : she showed on the brow of a

s^Ye^, with lier oars over and lier head our way,
though somewhat to windward of us. The man in
the after dart of her was rowing fisherman-fashion,
that is to sa', standing up with his face looking
forward : he saw us, and tossed one hand up,
whilst we all pressed forward to shout and gesticulate
to encourage them to persevere ; and nothing
in all my life ever sounded more strangely to my
ears than the roar the people who were grouped
upon the bulwarks sent up when they saw the
boat ; it swelled up like a great moan, and the
complaining of it came down out of the hidden
steady canvas aloft. But the abominable fog boiled
uj) again betwixt the boat and us, and all that could
be done now was for Mr. Thornton to go on firing,
whilst Daniel fi'om time to time hailed the gleaming
smother with his speaking-trumpet.

Thrice had he thus hailed, when there came a
faint reply, apparently right astern. Captain
.Jackson and Thompson Tucker, the skipper, chief
mate, and I, now all united om voices in a prodigious
shout, which I reckon was as far reaching
as the report of the rifle ; but not being able to
see, we couldn't tell the poor fellows how to head,
nor durst we bawl a single direction, preferring
rather to leave their guidance to God ; for they
might pass the ship within fifty feet and not see
her, and if once they took to groping without
certainty of our whereabouts, then, if the fog

didn't clear away soon, they might be out of sight
when the horizon showed, and as lost to us as if
they were at the bottom of the water. Upon my
word, there was positive torture in our expectation,
and we shouted, and fired, and listened, as if ive
were the people who were in peril : till suddenly
Florence cried, '' There's the boat ! " and pointed
with passionate eagerness over the taffrail to a
spot of shadow low down among the blowing
steam.

"There she is!" I shouted; and "There she
is ! " bawled Daniel. And putting his two hands
to his mouth, "Hurrah, my lads!" he roared;
you'll fetch us now — jovlW be seeing us plainly
enough now ! " And Mr. Thornton sprang on to
the taffrail with a coil of rope ready to fling to
them. It was painful to watch the lift and fall of
those two oars, the utter exhaustion, the bitter
dying strife for life, they somehow illustrated. Ina
few minutes she was close. "Look out for the
end of this line ! " shouted the chief mate. And
he chucked the coil fair over the foremost man
who twisted himself to get hold of it, took a turn,,
and then fell in a heap on the body at the bottom.
A groan of pity ran along our decks ; some of the
crew came tumbling aft, and presently the boat was
fair alongside and the men lifted out.

I went with the others to the break of the poop
to see them got aboard. The fellow who had fallen

was insensible and had to be handed up ; the other
had more Hfe in him, but his grasp was too feeble
to support him, and he'd have fallen back into the
boat if our men had not collared and helped him
over the side. To look down at them as I did, you
would have thought them the right kind of sea-apparition
to come out of that blinding white
smoke upon the water. Had they been ten days
drifting about, their faces couldn't have showed
more hollow and gauntly yellow, and one of the
three being seemingly dead, gave the last finishing
touch of horror to the whole thing. They were
taken forward, the doctor following in their wake,
and for some time we lost sight of them. But
there was the boat to watch, as the line that held
her was slackened, and she was veered astern ; and
whilst the mainland was swung and way got on the
ship, I found myself among those who stared at
her as though a little open boat was so rare a thing
that a hundred pounds would not. be too much to
pay for the sight of it. But where there has been
human suffering, the theatre of it, though it be but
an old plank, takes a kind of mystery and awe
that's jure magic of itself ; and deep it is in our
nature, since sou find it universal, though we may
wonder at and ridicule it ? Vulgar it may be, when
it comes to giving a guinea for an inch of the rope
that strangled a malefactor ; but the fascination is
more genteel when you find it on you in the gloom

of a dungeon that has echoed the groans of a
martyr, or on a piece of soil that was once an
ashen-grey with the embers and burnt skin and
hones of some mild and harmless creature ^Yhose
sin was that he believed in God as he found Him in
the Bible. We had imagination to help us — I can
answer, at least, for my sweetheart and myself; for
not yet knowing the truth, we fancied the worst,
and put the whole spirit of it into that boat, till it
became the emblem of the anguish we pictured,
and horribly fascinating in consequence.

What's the story of those men, d'ye suppose,
captain ? " says the navy man to Daniel, who stood
at my elbow.

Impossible to guess ; but we shall hear presently,"
answered Daniel.

'' I don't see any sign of a breaker in the boat —
there's no locker, and there's no food," says
Captain Jackson.

'* Oh, Captain Thompson, do jo\x think the two
poor men are dead?" cried Mrs. Marmaduke
Mortimer.

^'I'm afraid one is — drowned he looked to me,"
replied Daniel.

'' How could he be drowned if he's in the boat,
captain ? " asked Mrs. O'Brien.

By falling overboard," answered Captain
Jackson.

'' Hang these incidents ! " cried Mr. Thompson

Tucker. " They make one's flesh creep. Hope
they don't forebode trouble to us, that's all. Hang
me if I'm fond of stumbling over corpses, as it
might be. It's ill-luck, they say."

Oh, Marmaduke," murmured Mrs. Mortimer,
putting her hand into her husband's arm.

No use terrifying the ladies, young gentleman,"
says Captain Jackson, sternly.

Quite right, sir," replied Mr. Thompson Tucker,
briskly ; " and I hope nothing may happen that
2riU terrify them."

Here Mr. Griffiths arrived, and we all gathered
round him to hear his report. 'well, doctor?"
says Thompson.

Well, sir," replied Mr. Griffiths, " one man's
dead, the other two are alive, and likely to go on
living."

''^Tiat's their story?"

Why," said the doctor, half turning to grope
with his eyes along the leeward thickness, " they
belong to a small brig which can't be far off."
Here Captain Jackson started, and looked sternly
aloft and then over the side, in manifest deprecation
of our rate of sailing under the circumstances.
''A man fell overboard, it seems," continued the
doctor, '' and a boat was lowered with two men and
the mate to pick him up. I suppose they're not
very active or smart in those small vessels, and
the consequence was, the man was a tidy distance

astern before the boat was got into the water. All
this while the poor fellow was swimming strongly ;
but when they were within a few strokes of him,
he went clown. On seeing this, the mate jumped
out of the boat after him, but whether he had miscalculated
his strength, or something had gone
wrong with him, he sank a minute or two after he
had made the plunge. The men in the boat went
to the spot where he had vanished, and saw him
hanging about a foot under the surface, with his
arms stretched forward and his legs in a running
posture ; one leaned over, caught him by the hair,
and dragged him in ; but he was dead. Well, the
man who told me this says, that when he now
looked round for his vessel, he spied her some
distance to windward, and behind her the sky was
coming along in a white wall. It swallowed her
up, then reached to them, and there they were,"
says the doctor, " lost in this dense mist with a
dead shipmate at their feet, until we sliced past
'em so close that another few feet would have
settled their business."

Dear, dear, what a shocking story ! " cried Mrs.
Marmaduke Mortimer, clinging to her husband and
shivering, though, God knows, the beastly fog was
like a warm bath.

It's what I thought," said the navy man ; " I
could have sworn that boat had been lowered topick
up a man. Where's the brig, I wonder ? I

VOL. III. D

hope we may not run into her." And he glowered
past us into the obscurity that lay beyond the
main rigging.

Daniel gave Mr. Thornton some directions, and
Presently the mainsail was hauled up and the royal
and topgallant halliards let go ; some fore-and-aft
canvas was also taken in, and the ship, under the
diminished pressure, drove along very slowly. I
took this to signify that Daniel wanted to sight
the brig when the weather cleared, in order to
restore the men ; and this, indeed, was his motive
for shortening sail. Captain Jackson, however,
appeared to arrive at another conclusion, and
smirked around him as if he would have us know
that he did not yet despair of teaching these
*' merchant fellows " discretion as well as seamanship.


Most of the passengers now went below, amongst
them Florence, for there was moisture enough in
the smothering vapour to damp those who lingered
too long in it ; but shortly before noon, to the
delight of Thompson, who had despaired of getting
sights, the fog fined away to windward, shimmering
like silver dust as the clear blue water opened
out under it with a glancing and feathering of little
surges, and presently you could see the ocean-line
rounding like a semicircle formed by a pair of compasses
into the impenetrable white ahead and to
leeward and astern. The sun flashed down hot

and blinding out of the space of violet vault disclosed
by the settling away of the body of vapour,
until presently the ship swam out of the denseness
into the blazing silver of the meridian effulgence,
with her light sails idly flapping in the breeze, and
her black yards and yellow masts and grey decks
sparkling like frost with the clustering dew-drops
upon them from the vapour, whilst to leeward the
fog, like steam boiling up out of the sea, stood solid
upon the surface of the water, the gleaming white
folds of it looking so dense that one wondered, in
gazing, how one's lungs could have respired in
such a suffocation of cloud ; there it hung, slowly
withdrawing, the swell running into it with a wet
sheen in the slant of every heave, and disappearing
at the point of contact ; and the appearance of
the ocean at that moment was not to be likened to
any imaginable thing ; why, the deep blue coming
out from the summit of that precipitous mass of
vapour, and bending over our masthead to the
brilliant weather horizon, and the glorious azure
of the deep sparkling up from the wake of the sun
to the base of that immense length of lustrous white
opacity, were made by it more like a dreaming
fancy of sea under sunshine than the real thing.

No sooner had the sun appeared than the passengers
returned. Aunt Damaris and Florence
leading the way, whilst Daniel and Mr. Thornton
hovered on either side the quarter-boat, sextant in

hand, on the look-out for eight hells. Scarcely had
the southernmost end of the fog-bank drawn down
so as to start, as it might be, on the horizon from
where the fore-rigging intersected the water-line,
than some one forward bawled out, '* Sail ho ! "
and looking we spied a vessel between three and
four miles distant, leaning over close-hauled on the
port tack, heading our way, her canvas showing
yellow against the thickness past her. By this
time Daniel had made it noon, and eight bells had
been struck.

What is she — what's her rig, can you make
out ? " he called to the second mate, who was
working at the sail with a telescope.

I fancy she's a brig, sir," was the answer.
Yes, that's what she is — you may see the trysail
rounding close against the lee leech of the mainsail
as she ruffs — it'll be too close to the mainsail to bea
spanker, sir," and he handed the glass to Mr.
Thornton.

"If that be so'* said Daniel, "then it's a
hundred to one that she's the owner of the quarter-boat
we're towing, and seeking her."

The helm was put over, and a signal hoisted at
the gaff-end : upon my word I forget the exact nature
of it : those were the days of Marriott's Code, you
see ; but it meant that we desired to communicate
with the brig. She seemed to look further off as
the fog astern of her drew down to the sea-line

and broadened the space of gleaming blue water
between. She made no response to our signal,
and indeed it was quite likely she didn't understand
it, for if a little vessel like that had a flag-locker
at all aboard, it was odds if it held more
than a large and a small ensign, and so there
would be no good in the skipper having a signal-book.
But a proof that she was the vessel Daniel
took her to be came presently in the shape of her
putting her helm hard down, shooting out as she
rounded on her keel into the appearance of a very
pretty little brig, with lofty well-stayed masts, a
trysail-boom that went far over her stern, a bold
sheer forward, white figure-head, and green sides
low in the water. She braced round her foreyards,
but kept the main topsail to the mast, and thus
hove to, she rose and sank upon the swell, a toy-like
object, beautifully clear and distinct against
the fading white of the background, the sun bringing
flashes out of her wet green hull as she rolled,
whilst every shroud and stay which her canvas left
exposed was as sharply black in the searching
meridian light as strokes with a pen on white
paper.

She has sighted her boat astern of us," said
Daniel; 'that's more intelligible to her than our
flags ; " and he then gave instructions for the
men to be sent aft. Meanwhile everybody
aboard the Stratford was looking at the brig

towards-svliicli we were slowly advancing. To
sight a sail, to speak a vessel at sea during a long
voyage, is always a kind of excitement, a welcome
break; it is a friendly nod, a passing handshake,
that somehow seems to help one along the lonely
weltering road ; and the mighty stage of the deep
ceases for a spell to be the vast solitude which
every morning the dawn has revealed and every
evening the darkness has obscured. But there
was a special interest attached to this meeting:
for the little brig was a mother seeking her lost
children, whom we had found and were about to
restore, and the swing of her mainsail and topsail
as she pitched, along with the tremor of her jibs,
whose sheets were flowed or well eased-o£f, made
her look to be in a kind of flutter, as if like a thing
of instinct her heart hammered hard inside her.

The two rescued living men came along the
deck, the one that had swooned away holding onto
the other's arm ; they mounted the poop slowly,
and came to a stand, staring awkwardly at the
passengers, he that wore the Scotch cap holding it
in his hand.

Poor fellows ! " moaned Aunt Damaris in mj-
ear ; " how shocking they look."

But this appearance in them, to a large extent,
was the effect of her imagination. Their faces
were indeed haggard, as a result of the three
or four hours of agonizing expectation they had

undergone ; but they looked worse than they were,
first because, in a manner of speaking, they had
been for awhile abandoned to what would have
proved a fearful death, and they were pitiful for
that; and next because they were only half-clothed,
and what they wore was little better than old rags
stitched together, and this, with their wild hair and
shaggy chins, and the startled rolling of their eyes,
made them an impressive contrast for the dresses
and colours of the ladies and the smart apparel of
us gentlemen.

"Is that your vessel?" said Daniel, pointing.
The fellow in the Scotch cap said "Yes," putting
his hand to his forehead and looking at the brig
under it. " I've heard your story from the doctor,"
continued Daniel. " D'ye feel better, men ? "

Tm right enough, thank you, sir," says the
man, " but my mate here's a bit shook."

How long had you been knocking about in the
fog when we picked you up ? "

Why, the man we went to save fell overboard
soon after seven bells in the morning watch were
struck, and wee was in the water within ten minutes,
or may be less, than that of the time he fell."

"Well, call it three hours and a half," said
Daniel. " That's no great stretch. What caused
your mate to give up and tumble down in a faint? "

Sure I can't tell, sir," exclaimed the poor
fellow referred to, speaking for himself. There was

a deal to preys upon the mind — not only the thickness
all round, that might ha' lasted, for all we
was to know, until the brig had drifted too fur to
give us a chance, but there was the drowned mate
in the bottom of the boat, sir, and notion else
to see — notion else to look at," he added, feebly,
with a convulsive drawing in of the breath, and a
wild glance at the water.

'' What's the name of the brig ? "

The Wanderer, sir."

From where *? "

'' Callao."

Oh, then you're homeward bound," says Daniel,
smiling. 'd'ye think you can manage to put
yourselves aboard ? We'll draw as near as we
can?"

"Oh yes, sir," answered the owner of the
Scotch cap ; 'there's no weight in the boat."

Step this way for a minute." They followed
him, and he and Mr. Thornton spoke to them in a
quiet voice. " Ladies," said Daniel, returning,
we have a duty to perform which some of you
might not care to witness. It is simply this," he
exclaimed in his blunt way; "we propose to put
the body of the mate in the boat, and so restore it
to the brig. If you'll step aft, you'll see nothing."

Mr. and Mrs. Marmaduke instantly walked
hurriedly off; and they were followed by the rest of
the ladies. Aunt Damaris thrusting her hand under

Florence's arm and making her hasten. It is true
that most of them had seen the body lifted over the
side, but then nobody knew that the man was dead.
Thompson Tucker hung in the wind for a spell, and
seemed irresolute, suspended betwixt curiosity and
fear. At last saying aloud, " Aitex all a dead body
makes a devilish unpleasant memory," he thrust
his hands into his pockets and sauntered, with the
air of a man unconscious of what he was doing, to
a part of the poop whence the maindeck was invisible.
Presently, looking aft, I saw Florence
beckoning. I went to her and noticed she had her
purse in her hand.

I want you to give this to the poor men," said
she, and she handed me a sovereign.

How much has my niece given you, Mr.
Egerton ? " inquired Aunt Damaris.

''A pound," said I.

She put her hand in her pocket and extracted a
half sovereign : " There, Mr. Egerton, please give
them that. I'm not so rich as my niece."

Thereupon the others began to fumble, and
Mrs. O'Brien produced five shillings, Mrs. Joyce
the like sum, and Mr. Marmaduke Mortimer ten,
five from him and five from his wife, Mrs. Grant
furnished half-a- crown, and as I took the money to
the captain to give to the men I slipped five
shillings into the amount.

'there, Daniel," said I, "this is the passengers'

gift to the two men ; but note, if you please, that
it was Miss Florence Hawke who started the
subscription."

*^ Have you given anything? " asked he.

"Yes," said I.

Oh, hang you ! then I must. How much did
you give ? "

*' Five shillings," I answered.

Too much for a shipmaster," said he ; " can't
afford more than half-a-crown. And so, Jack,
when you next say your prayers, remember that
you're more virtuous than Daniel Thompson to the
extent of two-and-sixpence."

The two men were on the maindeck, but he
called them up again to give them the money, and
I noticed the hearty alacrity with which Captain
Jackson, when he saw what was going on, whipped
out with a crown-piece. The money did the poor
fellows a world of good. The chink of it put a
light in their eyes, and when Daniel told them the
bulk of it had come from the ladies, they looked
aft and gave a feeble cheer and a long-drawn " God
bless you, ladies — God bless you, ladies ! "

"It's the ladies who love Jack," said Daniel;
"without them where would the sailor find friends?
I echo your words, my lads, ' God bless 'em ! ' "

We had now drawn close enough to the brig to
see the heads of her crew watching us over the rail.
The fog had vanished ; it was all dark blue water

now, down to were the sky touched the circle with
a little gathering in the weight of the wind that
seemed to deepen the ocean hue. The sails of the
brig stood white enough against the azure, every
heave sending a hurry of shadow over them, and it
was pretty to watch her sliding down the swell
beam-wise, until the brow of the gleaming fold that
was laced with the wind's soft thrashing, looked to
stand above her bulwarks, though the full picture
of her would come out in a moment when the liquid
acclivity caught her under her green and glimmering
bends and hove her up till the sunlight flashed
fair into the streak of her dull yellow metal
sheathing, and threw it out upon the blue with the
complexion of old gold.

When we were within hailing distance the
Stratford was brought to the wind, and Daniel
standing up bawled, '' Brig ahoy ! "

A fellow in a suit of grey cloth and a great
flapping straw hat on his head, sprang on to the
rail, and with a flourish of his hand, answered,
'^ Hallo!"

Have you lost a boat and three men ? "

'eyes, sir."

Then we've picked them up. Look out for
them."

Ay, ay, sir."

Some of our men came along and dragged the
boat to the gangway. The maindeck and waist

were full of the second and third class passengers,
but you noticed a flurry and a pressing back among
them when four of the crew came out of the forecastle,
bearing the dead body of the brig's mate on
their shoulders. They had flung a boat's sail, or
something of that kind, over the corpse, but you
could see his lifeless hands hanging under, and his
boots on the shoulders of the two who supported
his legs, and I reckon the sight was made more
affecting by these indications of what that outline
under the canvas was, than had the body been
exposed. An apprentice had hauled down the
signal at the peak, and had run the ensign halfway
up. The brig's people didn't seem to understand
this until they saw the white thing handed
over om* side into their boat, and then you
perceived their ensign float up off their taffrail and
blow out midway like om's — the sailor's symbol of
death making one of his ship's company. Sorrowful
it was to look over the rail into the boat and seethe
dead man lying there. He had perished whilst
striving to succour a shipmate, and one's heart
went to the still seaman for that. There was a
little handshaking on the maindeck ere the two
men left ; but in a few minutes they were in their
boat, adrift, dancing upon a tumble that was brisk
enough for a little craft, rowing fairly, and heading
true for the brig that lay easily to leeward. We
waited until she reached the vessel, and it was not

until she was hooked on to the davit-falls that the
order was given to trim sail. Then, as the great
yards were swung, and the Stratford low-curtsied
to the sea like a dancer bowing to an audience ere
taking her first graceful leap, the ensign was run
to the gaff-end and dipped three times as a token
of farewell. The little brig answered the salutation,
but with so slow a motion of the flag as to suggest
dejection and sorrow to a degree not to be conveyed
; there she lay pitching with her maintopsail
aback like some living creature stunned and
bewildered by bereavement. Fancy it was, of
course ; but for all that you would have felt it asa
fact had you watched her, knowing the dismal
message her boat had brought her, and cast your
eye upon the huge blue solitude that surrounded
her, and then upon the hurrying and trembling
shadows in her canvas, and her bows that wept as
she lifted them streaming. Does not a vessel
mourn the loss of her children ? Two of yonder
crew had gone to their account that morning ; one
sadly, one nobly; and as I hung over the poop
rail, watching the brig lessening fast as our wake
flashed up astern of us, she seemed to me to know
her loss and to be grieving. A wide space of water
separated us before she braced up her yards and
proceeded on her course; and presently she was
no more than a speck gleaming white, blandly
shining in the airy distance like a star.

CHAPTER IL

IN THE SOUTHERN OCEAN.

Why have I stopped to spin you this yarn? It
has nothing to do Tvith my story. But avast ! I
think it has. What is this log but the record of a
voyage, how it was begun, what happened during
it, and how it ended ? x\nd that being so, why, asa
part of the voyage, our overhauling of the brig's
boat in a fog ought to be told. If it's not art, you
can't growl, boys ; for you know I cautioned you at
the beginning against fostering any expectations of
that kind. But such a deal remains to be told that
wee shall never get ashore again if we hang over the
side story-spinning in this fashion ; so now let us
start afresh for a steady spin down the South
Atlantic, and then a bold shift of the helm for New
Holland.

The day following that on which we met with the
brig, we picked up the south-east trades. They
blew in half a gale of wind ; I had never met them
so strong ; a main topgallant sail over a single-reefed

topsail was as much as the Stratford could
stagger under ; and for several days her decks were
just a white smother as she drove along over the
high seas, lee channels out of sight, and the foam
sometimes standing up, so that by putting your
hand over the rail you could have grasped a
handful of the sluicing snow alongside. We swept
along close-hauled on the port tack, and that it was
which made the wind feel a whole gale. I never
should have thought that on a taut bowline the
ship, loaded down as she was to her chainplate
bolts, would have shown such a pace. Looking at
her over the rail, you would have thought her
flying clear of the water rather than sailing through
it. Grand it was to mark her strike the dark blue
rolling comber, shatter it into froth, and rush
through the rainbow which arched upon the storm
of foam like a girl making a bound with a coloured
scarf over her head.

Grand, but uncomfortable ! One would sometimes
taste the spray on the wind right aft. The
maindeck was impassable by all but the crew ; and
how the 'tween deck passengers made shift to get
their meals from the galley I don't know. But you
heard no complaints ; everybody was too glad to feel
the strong' wind, and see the broad wake shining,
and rising and falling upon the leaping seas, till it
seemed to vanish upon the horizon, to grumble at
the discomfort of the cabins and the decks. Everyday

at noon Daniel Twould discover that we were so
many degrees nearer the latitude of the Cape, and
the passengers began to make bets upon the date
on which the Stratford would drop anchor in
Sydney Bay. Well, we carried these tempestuous
trades as low down as 31°, and the change from the
thrilling, and plunging and rushing to a long South
Atlantic swell and a west-north-west breeze, with
barely enough weight in it to keep the forecourse
lifted, was lamented by all.

Now I will here say that, as every parallel we
ran do'^Ti inevitably brought whatever result my
voyage was to yield more and more to a head,
every degree of latitude the ship chalked out found
me increasing my thoughtfulness in the matter of
my courtship, and so speculative as often to be
abominable company to all but my darling. I
knew that in a few days we should be having the
sun rising over our bows, and measuring our
progress by degrees of longitude ; and then, I
would think, the next thing will be the loom of the
New South Wales coast, the Circular Quay, a
lodging in George Street, and afterwards heaven
alone could know what.

I never managed to get half-an-hour with
Florence without talking to her about this. One
fine evening, I remember, she came on deck, and I
joined her. The ship was going along quietly, gently
rolling upon the deep indigo watery folds, the sky

was clear and brilliant with stars and star-mist,
vague streams of milky light, the planets which
hung under them burning blue like diamonds, and
Magellan's shining clouds and the beautiful
Southern Cross among them, the latter sparkling
gloriously on the black breast of the night, the
fairest of all her radiant jewels, whilst in the east,
the moon fresh from the deep was softly soaring.
We walked to and fro talking such things as will
come into lovers' heads, and presently my darling
stopped a moment to look at the moon, and at its
ice-like, greenish silver wake, that widened and
narrowed as the swell rolled through it.

She will be rising over our bowsprit before
long," said I. " It'll soon be Eastward ho ! with
us, and then what's to happen ? "

"Jack," said she, ''I have told you again and
again what you ought to do."

Ay ! " said I, '' but hang me if I have the
courage. I know what will be the result; the
moment I tell your aunt that I am Jack Seymour,
she'll step between us. No doubt she can't prevent
us from being together while we're in the ship ; but
what will she do when she gets ashore ? Not certainly
that she could do anything that you didn't
choose ; but you ivonH choose, Florence ; you'll not
marry without your papa's consent, you say ? "

You know I would not. Jack ; how can you
suppose that I should ? " she interrupted, smiling,

VOL. III. E

with the moonlight on her face, and her eyes gleaming
like the most beautiful of the stars over us.

Then, that being so," said I, " what's the good
of my going to Aunt Damaris and telling her who I
am ? She allows me as Jack Egerton to be with
you, to make love to you — she cultivates me ; at
all events there's no objection ; why should I put a
stop to all this, Florence, by confessing who I am,
when you have determined not to marry me without
your papa's consent *? If you'd only say, ' Jack,
you shall be my husband, whether papa and Aunt
Damaris like it or not ; I will marry you — fairly, if
they consent, but if not, secretly, for marry you I
will,' why, my very own, if you'd only say that tome
and mean it, why, d'ye see, Florence, I'd go
below at once, knock on your aunt's door, and say,
' I'm Jack Sej^mour, Miss Hawke, the fellow your
brother objects to.' "

I'll say nothing of the kind," she exclaimed.
*' Oh, Jack ! you are not a nice boy for even making
me think of such a thing."

Then," cried I, with a kind of groan in my
voice, '^ what's the good of my confessing to your
aunt ? "

But she'll have to know the truth sooner or
later," said Florence.

'eyes," said I, *but if it's to bring her between
us, if it's to find you willing to obey her as your
papa's representative, I don't want it to be sooner

tut later. Don't forget, Florence, that you have as
good as said that if your aunt were to discover who
I am and to command you not to speak to me or to
have anything to do with me when we arrive at
Sydney, you would have to obey her."

No, Jack ; I said I should not know what to do;

I should go home — I should Oh, dear ! how

bad-tempered you are with me ! " she cried.

*' Bad-tempered ! " I exclaimed, and I said no
more till we came to a part of the deck where there
lay a deep shadow, and there I kissed her, and held
her to my heart ; for in what better way could I
answer her ? She never objected to my kissing her
now. It wasn't right, no doubt, nor even consistent,
seeing how staunchly she held out for her
papa's consent. But then, boys, she was fond of
me, ay, she was fond of me ; and betwixt a kiss
and the altar, you know, there's a wide stretch of
ground. Presently I was hammering away again
at the old topic.

The truth must come out sooner or later, as
you say," I observed; 'but anyhow, I'll keep my
secret till we're ashore ; she shan't hear of it on
blue water. If she likes me as Jack Egerton, if
she don't object to my falling in love with you in
that character, then let her introduce me as Jack
Egerton to her friends, let her allow us to be
recognized by all Sydney as sweethearts, and then,
when I avow myself, maybe her pride'll come to

our help, she'll feel herself committed, Florence.
That's one of my ideas, but I don't say it's worth
much," I added, gloomily. " It's a fearful'struggle,
it's all up-hill; you're not against me, but you
don't give me a hand."

^' How can you say such a thing ? "

'' If you won't marry me without your father's
consent, and if you are, as I am, perfectly positive
that he never will consent, then I say you're not
giving me a hand."

"You may think what you like of me. Jack,"
said she, sadly, " but I never will marry you
without papa's consent."

Here fell a gloomy silence ; then I felt her hand
that was under my arm creeping along, till it
touched my fingers.

"Don't be cross with me. Jack."

"My darling "

"You are so impatient. May not we hope one
day to get papa's consent? If he finds us truly
devoted and constant "

Oh ! " cried I, " don't make that a question of
it. Devoted and constant ! " and off I yawed into
another bout of passionate talk of which I'll not
weary you, lads, with the particulars. "But,"
said I, winding up, " I have no hope of ever getting
his consent. He wants blood, Florence. Thank
God, I am not without blood, but it's not of the
kind he desires."

"Yes, but Jack," said she, very gravely, "he
may find me resolved; and though I never, never
could marry you against his consent — I won't say
his wishes — he may find me very determined."

"Determined to do what?" I asked, in a hollow
whisper.

"Determined to wait for his consent," she
answered. I uttered a groan. " You foolish
fellow ! " she exclaimed, playing with my hand ;
"you don't understand. Do you think papa an
ogre, a dreadful unbending man ? I am sure, Jack,
if he were to find me determined to wait for his
consent, he would give it, because my determination
would signify that I meant to marry nobody
but you, and you are really not such a dreadful
character as to make his consent hopeless when he
finds that years do not change us, and that I am

unhappy without — without " The rest was

dissolved in a sigh.

Oh, it was too sweet to hear her, despite of her
talking of years. A brief interval of transport on
my side ensued; and then I said, "If, as Jack
Egerton, I have made your aunt like me, and
think me — ought I to say it ? — not ineligible for
her niece, am I to suppose that the mere pronouncing
of my real name is to convert me into
a vulgar, unfit sailor youth in her opinion ? "

No ! " she exclaimed, eagerly ; " and that is why
I think you should let me tell her who you are."

But I would not have this. I told her I disliked
the idea, not only because a confession-would bring
her aunt between us and make the rest of the
voyage horribly uncommon-table for all three of us,
but it might end in causing the old lady to detest
and abominate me ; for the story was sure to get
wind. One would ask questions, then another,
until by-and-by everybody would be hearing that
the young man whom Miss Damaris Hawke had
made a friend of, and whose attentions to her
niece she appeared to be silently encouraging, was
no more nor less than the youth whose admiration
and devotion the young lady had been sent away
to Australia to escape. "And," said I, "as you
may be sure Captain Jackson wouldn't spare her,
and as her sensitiveness would put plenty of uncomfortable
meaning into every look and whisper and
smile in the others, she would hold me accountable
; the rest of the voyage would be little better
than a long skulking and hiding on her part :
and she would step ashore with you, hating and
execrating me."

Well, my pet listened attentively, and in the end
had nothing to answer. It was always so in these
talks. She wanted me to throw off my disguise,
not caring twopence for what the passengers might
think, concerned only in her conscience, which she
felt would be clearer if her aunt knew who I was ;
and then I would reason with her, always managing,

to produce some fresh argument against the admission
she desired, until she'd own that perhaps I
knew best. I cannot imagine that any lover before
my time was ever situated as I was. Long ago
my uncle had told me not to flatter myself fora
moment that Florence was a girl likely to elope
with a man, or marry without her father's consent.
He had a clear eye for character, and had proved
right. But I had not taken his view when I started
on this voyage. In my heart my belief was that
before the Australian coast was hove up, I should
have got my pet to love me well enough to consent
to any form of marriage, that is if her father proved
stubborn. Well, I had succeeded in making her
love me, ay, to any extent beyond my highest
hopes ; did I not know that hj a thousand signs
which I could no more explain to you in writing
than I could fling the white silver of the moon on
a written description of that luminary ? And yet
here she was, as immovable in the matter of her
papa's consent as ever she was at Clifton. What
then was I to do ? At times it would come into
my head that my only chance lay in going on
steadily improving Aunt Damaris's liking of meas
Mr. Egerton, allowing her to write about me as
Mr. Egerton to her brother, and then, when she
had fairly posted her packet of praise, divulging
my secret, and trusting to her acceptance of Jack
Seymour as a very good substitute for the same

person under another name. Assuredly, she was
permitting me to make love to her niece aboard
the StratJimore. I don't mean to say that she
could have helped this love job, even had she
objected to it ; she couldn't be always chasing
Florence on deck, she couldn't afford to render
herself an object of laughter by stepping up and
sundering us when she found us together ; but she
could, had she chosen, have told Florence not to
allow me to pay her such marked attention as she
noticed, and in a heap of other ways could she
have indicated her objection, had she felt any,
even though Florence had defied her, and insisted
upon being with me and acting as she pleased.
But nothing of the kind happened. She seemed
to blind herself to what was going on. If she
spoke of me at all to Florence, it was to praise
me — so at least my darling would say ; and to my
face, she was as gracious as her acidulated nature
would suffer her to be, often taking my arm on
deck, often sitting next me at meals, despatching
me on little errands, such as for her fan, her
smelling-bottle and the like, in a manner to let me
understand that she honoured me thus because
I was a favourite of hers, because I was what,
perhaps, behind my back, she would speak of asa
nice young man ; frequently in her conversation
with me developing a vein of sentiment that might
have been alarming but for her tacit recognition

of my love for her niece, whilst on several occasions
she'd express the hope that I would often visit them
on om arrival in Sydney.

I repeat that mine was a most perplexing situation
; and spite of my frequent chats with Florence
and a hundred long and lonely meditations, I never
could arrive at any other conclusion than that
there was nothing to be done but to let things take
their chance, and that meanwhile I could not do
better than maintain the character under which
I had shipped, and by all the artifices of which
Mr. John Egerton was capable, prepare the way
for Mr. Jack Seymour.

"Well, boys, this was the state of my affairs as
we drove round the Cape before half a gale of
wind, and ploughed a west by south course into
the Southern Ocean. We were now in the second
week of December, and in longitude 21° east, when
a strong worcester reefed us down, and for ten
days blew us along to an accompaniment of frequent
and heavy squalls of vv^et, at the rate of two
hundred miles in every twenty-four hours. I am
not exact in calling it a worcester, for it veered
betwixt due north and due west, blowing hardest
when it came most westerly. But for ten days it
drove us, to the joy of Daniel, who now calculated
upon bringing his passage from the English
Channel to the Sydney Heads within the time the
run had occupied him last voyage.

It was what Mrs. Mameluke Mortimer vroukl have
called a stormy time. The tallest surges in the
world rmi off the Cape, and they'd look like cliffs
sometimes, I would think, as I'd stand watching
them chasing us on the weather quarter, thundering
their avalanches of snow from their mountainous
heads into the dark, wrinkled, roaring
valleys between. As wild a sea scene as ever I
witnessed happened upon one of the nights of these
ten days I am talking about, when the small green
moon in the north was flying like a meteor through
the sweeping smoke of the sooty scud that shot
out of the blackness in the north-west. She flung
wet silver gleams down as though they were sparkling
lances darted by some hurling hand up there :
like arrows they seemed to faU through the rents
in the masses of torn and sweeping vapour,
making bits of the frothing heads in the fair wake
of the orb flash out in a manner to startle the
eye gazing from the middle of the stormy scene ;
it would have passed for a constant flaring of
torches burning white and extinguished by the
breath of the gale as fast as they were kindled.
Never a star was to be noticed, nothing with a
gleam in all the howling dingy paleness overhead
save the moon, that would blaze out bright for a
second, then vanish in the snuff-like black smother
of the scud, or show faint behind a thinner body
of vapour, the very ghost of herself, cutting — as

she would seem — with incredible velocity through
the filmy stuff, till, with a leap, out she would
sparkle glorious, with a hurl of her metallic light
down upon the mad sea, and then a dive into a
dense cloud big enough to wrap the whole ocean
in shadow, though for a space you'd see the moonlight
rushing off the water upon the lee bow, as
though it were being blown away by the gale.

But in about longitude 40° east, the strong wind
died out in a squall, leaving us to meditate upon
the several thousands of miles of ocean that still
rolled betwixt us and Australia. Then for a space
of eight days we had a spell of grand weather,
variable breezes ranging aft from either bow, but
never forward, sometimes blowing weakly, sometimes
a merry wind, but always managing to make
true Pacific weather of it for us ; a soft, heavy
blue in the sky that looked to cave in like the
hollow of a sail between the great white clouds, and
a long, shining, azure swell that made one feel, as
it hove up the ship with a slanting rush, as if it
were a motion of the deep created by the revolution
of the globe, so rhythmic was the sweep of it,
so measureless the deep blue distance out of which
it came.

It was weather to enjoy to the fullest, a gush of
delight coming from God knows where, making the
air so sweet that the taste of it was in sour mouth
when you went below, lingering like the flavour of

neT\- milk ; and the wonder of it seemed to go into
the ocean too, for never did I see so heavenly a
blue upon salt water ; the sunlight floated off it
like a mist, and I'd fancy at times when the ship
sank into a hollow that I could see the sky of the
horizon betwixt the azure of the water and the
radiance hovering over it, just as the violet gleams
between the arched foot of a sail and the yard
beneath. But then you get all sorts of atmospheric
miracles in that Southern Ocean, — evenings
which come along molten with pink, and
green, and crystal points of light ; sunsets which
cause the sea to appear as if it were streaming
away in a mighty channel of gold into the huge,
flaming, crimson, rayless disk that slowly sinks
behind it ; a kind of drawing up of the deep into
the shadow when the night falls as if it were a
surface of black velvet inflated from underneath
between your ship and the ocean-line, shot with
cloudy puffs of phosphoric radiance which the
swell lifts to the stars over the horizon as though
it was by contact with tlicm that these mysterious
luminous swarming were fed.

One was glad of such weather for the sake of
the 'tween deck passengers. The children's enjoyment
of it did one's heart good to witness. They
made a playground of the waist, and listening to
them sometimes, with a look round at the mighty
deep which went away on all sides for thousands

of leagues, westwards to the bitter Horn and
northwards to the broiling Indian Ocean, I'd find
something startling in the thought of such little
laughter and childish calling voices sounding amid
the hugest scene of creation in the world. Ashore
such fancies could not come ; houses intercept the
view, or there are hills for a boundary. The
horizon lies close, any way ; but at sea, when your
glance goes past the water-line it dives straight
into the sky that hangs over the same liquid
expanse hundreds of miles off. The hollow sails
would throw back the echo of these children's voices
at times when there was a hush up aloft ; and with
those notes there'd blend the swift chattering rattle
of women, the humming of arguing men, the call
of the boatswain to the seamen at work on the
rigging, with the sound of gushing water over the
sides, the tune of a plane making music on the
carpenter's bench, the muttering of hens in their
coops, and the clanking links of chains working in
sheaves or striking the spars. Aft, we were staid
enough ; ever since the day on which little Lily
Joyce had fallen overboard, the children of that
family had been kept snug under the lee of the
nurse or their parents ; if ever even one of them
made a stride out of arm's reach, you'd see the
nurse jump for it or the mother would give a
screech. One fall overboard was enough for that
affectionate circle, and their care was very reasonable

; but I'd often pity the nurse, who needed
eyes in her back as well as in her face, and
grappling hooks in each hand to keep those
youngsters together ; whilst life to Mr. and Mrs.
Joyce, when they and the children were on deck,
was little better than a burden. Well, you'd see
this family all of a cluster near the skylight ; and
beyond them Captain Jackson lying back with his
arms folded drowsily, looking at the sea from under
his hat, the brim of it leaning to his nose ; Mrs.
Jackson near him knitting ; Mrs. and Miss Grant
reading; Mrs. O'Brien talking to Thompson
Tucker, who looked bored as he listened ; Daniel
standing up before Aunt Damaris and Florence,
with his grinning red face turned upon the old lady
as she'd jerk out her observations with the old pecking
motion of her face that made the cavern of a
hood the most natural covering for her sharp nose
to show in and out of; right at the extreme end
the man at the wheel, gripping the spokes and
munching a quid as though he were talking to
the card or the canvas, betwixt which his eyes
would alternate; and then for a frame you had
the soft sweeping girdle of the blue sky, shining
purely against the glossy round of the spanker and
between the staysails, and flowing up over the
bulwarks till it dazzled into the white splendour of
the sunlight over the port main topgallant yardarm.
This would be the sort of picture the poop offered

during those few lovely days, during-wbicli the ship
sailed fast under a cloud of canvas and impelled
Ly gushing breezes, bonitos showing the way and
the albicore in our wake, with a following of seafowl
stooping over the white track that poured in a
sparkling eddy from the rudder-post.

During one of these halcyon days I remember I
was talking to Aunt Damaris and Florence, when
we were startled by a shout from the forecastle.
Looking, we spied the people running to the side
to peer over ; we all three got up and went to the
rail, and there in the water close under the ship
we saw a dead sailor on a lifebuoy. It was the
ugliest, saddest thing chance could have fitted
into the gleaming airy beauty of that day. How
long it had been in the water could not be imagined ;
you just caught sight of the putrid featureless face
as the sway of the sea made the figure, poised on
the buoy, bow horribly to us as it slid astern. An
albatross in our wake stooped to it with a scream
that might have been wrung from the corpse itself,
so wild was the sudden note heard in connection
with that sight, and then came on again after us.

^* What a tomb for that one man ! " exclaimed
Florence to me, shuddering.

*' Better than a graveyard," said I. ''' There are
no rank weeds here, no crumbling monuments, no
hint of the things which make death di-dreadful to
our imagination. What nobler sepulchre than this

U, OF ILL LIB.

glorious blue sea could a sailor want ? Every
surge that breaks gives him a headstone."

Why do people make one see such sights ? '*
grumbled Aunt Damaris, looking pale and scared.
Hour the creatures stare ! I Twould have given
ten pounds not to have had my attention called to
the horrible object."

'what a story of human anguish is contained
in that life-buoy ! " cried Florence, clasping her
hands.

*' There never was a politer body!" sung out
Mr. Thompson Tucker from the rail. " Did you
see him bow to us, ladies, as we passed ? "

For shame ! for shame ! " exclaimed Mrs.
O'Brien. " How do you know there's not a mother
waiting for him at home ? "

''He didn't look as if he ever had a mother,"
retorted Mr. Tucker.

'' Oh, you wicked creature," cried Mrs. O'Brien.
How would you look after you'd be dthr owned a
week?"

*' That youth must be an infidel," said Aunt
Damaris.

Infidel or not," said I, '^ I'll wager in a time
of danger he'd be the first to drop on his knees
and shriek out a thousand promises of being good
for ever after if he's only spared this once ; " for
hang me, boys, if I liked the chap's derision of the
poor dead sailor.

Well, the passing of that dead man reminds me
of another incident of this fine weather bout in
the Southern Ocean. This time it was the forenoon,
a slight breeze was blowing over our starboard
quarter, and the ship was sailing along
quietly with every staysail she carried on one side
of her overhanging the water. I was smoking a
pipe on the grating abaft the wheel, underneath
which the tiller-chains led ; a favourite spot of
mine, for every heave of the bows would favour me
with a sight of the whole length of the ship, and I
was never weary of watching the effects of light
and shade produced by the vessel's motion, the
darkening of the hollows of the canvas as the sails
swept out, the clear white of them next the bolt-ropes
when they rounded their breasts to the sun,
and the crystalline gleam of the cloths curved
sharp against the deep blue of the sky, then the
swaying of the lace-work of shadow cast by the
rigging upon the deck, and the gush of sunshine
'twixt the yards and the sails making the masts
look as if they were fished with silver bands.
A hundred such things there were to keep me
admiring, though it happened just then that
instead of watching the ship I was following with
my eyes the square short figure of my friend
Daniel, who with Mrs. Marmaduke Mortimer on
his arm, was stumping the weather side of the
poop. My mind fell back to the old memories he

VOL. III. F

belonged to, and I thought how wonderfully small
is this world, that of the thousand shipmasters at
sea, the one I was destined to sail with in the wild
romantic undertaking that was carrying me to
Australia should turn out to be an old shipmate
and friend. Little enough have I said of his seamanship
and of his professional conduct ; but I
had seen plenty to enable me to judge that he
was in the highest degree worthy of the position
that he had attained, — the command of a fine
Australian liner which, think what you please, islet
me tell you, a mighty responsible post, and
more so in those days than now when most of the
work is done by steamers. No one would have
supposed to hear him joking with me, or talking
drily and yet with the perfect simplicity of a
seaman too, to the passengers, what a vigilant soul
that little red-faced chap carried under his skin,
what an eye for the weather was his, how thorough
his knowledge of sailors' characters which furnished
him with a wonderful mastery over his crew, how
true was the understanding betwixt him and his
mates, though the dignity of his position as master
was never more stubbornly asserted by a man's
behaviour and more fully appreciated by those
under him.

I was following him with my eyes and thinking
of him in this manner when one of the apprentices,
who was aloft on some job in the mizzentopmast-

crossness, hailed the deck. Mr. Thornton, who
was m charge, looked up. '•' There's something
black in the water away out yonder on the port
bow, sir! " cried the youngster. 'rit appears like
the hull of a capsized ship."

Everybody crossed the deck to take a squint at
the thing, whatever it might be. Perceiving
nothing, I dived below for my little telescope,
knowing that between Daniel and the chief mate
and the others there was small chance of my
getting the loan of the ship's glass, and levelled it
at the sea over the port bow. In a moment the
long blue swell hove up a black, wet, gleaming
object into the circumference of the lenses.

What do you make of it, captain ? " said I.

Why," answered Daniel, talking with his eye
at the glass, " it appears to me to be a ship upside
down."

That's what I think," said I. '' And a big ship
too."

Let's have a look," exclaimed the navy man,
and he put himself into a kind of cocked-hat and
lord-high-admiral posture as he pointed the glass.

Florence joined us, and I held my telescope for
her to look through ; but, of course, she could see
nothing. Somehow or other girls never do see
anything when they look through a telescope.
They don't seem to know how to shut one eye and
keep the other open. How's that now ? It's

vulgar to wink, of course; but most girls can do
that by trying (of course they never do) ; and yet
they can't shut one eye to look through a telescope !
Florence managed it by putting her hand over one
of her sweet sparklers ; and I watched the long
lashes of the other trembling against the brass rim
of the telescope and her lovely face, matchless for
complexion, full of earnestness as she poured the
light of her left eye into the tube; but it was no
good: *sit seems all sky," said she; so I handed
the glass to Thompson Tucker, who got it out of
focus and sung out "^Tiy, hang me, there's a fog
coming on ! "

*' No more horrors, I hope ? " said Aunt Damaris,
joining us.

** There's a fog coming on," said Thompson
Tucker.

*' A fog in your eye," exclaimed Captain Jackson:
"it's the hull of a thousand-ton ship capsized,
ma'am. Another sample of stevedoring,
captain. The art of stowing is lost. They load
iron rails on bird-cages and wonder that ships go
a-missing."

"Whatever it is we'll have a look at it," said
Daniel; and he told the chief mate to keep the
shi away by a couple of points.

By-and-by Mr. Thornton said to me, " If that's
a ship she must have been built as a man-of-war
for the King of the Cannibal Islands ; for look your

hardest, Mr. Egerton, and you'll see no shape in
her."

Well," exclaimed Daniel, coming up to us,
what does it look like now ? "

*i'll tell you what it looks like," I replied,
working away with the glass; *rit looks like a
thousand-ton slaver, floating on her bilge with a
hundred or two of negroes swimming around her.
But what it is," said I, handing him the glass,
'sis this: it's a tremendous dead whale, horribly
swelled, with a thousand moUemokes, or birds of
that pattern, eating it."

And so it proved by evidence as strong as the
eyes, I mean the nose. One mouthful of the taint
was enough, and the ship was hastily brought as
far to windward of her course as she could come
without touching the braces in order to give the
putrescent mountain a wide berth. What sort of
a whale it was I couldn't tell you ; maybe it was
what the Yankee salesman called a crinkum-
cranium whale, the meaning of which is " A whale
that can't be catched ; " but whatever the right
name for it was, I tell you, lads, it looked to me
the biggest thing in whales that the sea had ever
floated. I'll not be minute; if I were to be
graphic you'd shout for eau-de-cologne. There
it swung upon the azure folds of the swell, such
a corpse that the mind was awed and oppressed
by the immensity of It. It floated high, owing to

its condition, and in places the overlapping of the
water made the skin gleam like a mirror for the
sun to flash in. It was a fearful carcase and
looked like an island, and yet not half of it was
exposed. You saw no head and no tail; the
portion visible was from the hump to the flapper
or fin abaft the lower jaw !

'* Gracious mercy ! " mumbled Aunt Damaris
behind her pocket-handkerchief, " what an object
it would make on a beach ! "

That's how one should have seen it no doubt, to
understand the amazing magnitude of this dead
and oh ! most evil-smelling leviathan. How could
the chaste moon rise upon such a loathsome mass ?
One might have sworn it was enough to pollute the
gales and breezes of the whole of the Southern
Ocean, ay, from the Cape of Good Hope to Van
Diemen's Land, and from the Antarctic Circle to
the Equator. And the next wonder was the birds
upon it. We slid past too far off to make sure of
them, but if they were not mollemokes they were
not albatrosses — no, those kingly eagles of the
southern seas, let me hope, would disdain such
stupendously loathsome fare ; they were great
brown birds with long bills, and powerful wings
sweeping out and around so as to resemble the
prongs of a pitchfork. How many of them there
were I could not tell you ; they swarmed upon the
huge dead block, some rising high on the wing and

swooping down with a rush as though to spear the
black rind with their bills, while scores floated in
the water round.

*' Are they ducks ? " asked Mrs. Marmaduke
Mortimer.

*more like carrion-crows, love," observed her
husband.

'' Ducks'll eat snails and muck," said Mr.
Thompson Tucker ; " but hang me if I think an
honest land-duck could be got to taste that whale."

And that's the thing people make umbrellas of,
and stays ? " exclaimed Mrs. O'Brien, in the tone
of a person upon whom a great truth dawns.

The strangest part is how we're doomed to
meet nothing but horrors," said Aunt Damaris,
walking off.

CHAPTEK III.

COLLISION.

On Christmas Day it was calculated at noon, by
dead reckoning, that our latitude was about thirty-six
degrees twenty-three miles south, and our
longitude about seventy-six degrees twenty miles
east. Dead reckoning is finding out a ship's
position by counting up the number of miles she
has run in a given time as shown by the log, and
by marking off her courses on a chart; and this
had to be done on that Christmas Day, for it came
with a thick, leaden sky and a raw southerly wind.
It was the unpleasantness touch of weather we had
encountered for weeks. A sluggish swell rolled up
against our lee-bow like the headings of an ocean
of green paint, and this combined with the run of
the surges with the wind rendered the movement
of the ship exceedingly confused and uncomfortable.
There was no rain, though all round the sea there
stood a haze that might well have passed for the
grey colouring of a heavy downpour there. The

Stratford leaned before the fresh wind under
whole topsails and fore and main topgallant sails,
and the yards being braced in a little she wassailing
fast, though the bow swell bothered her and
caused her at times to fling out a furious play of
foam on either hand. There might have been ice
to windward, with such an edge in it did the wind
come ; and we all appeared in warm clothes as
though we were making the passage of the Horn.

Despite the gloomy sky and the bleak and sullen
appearance of the sea, we went to work to look
cheerful, toiling like true Britons as we were, to
seem happy because it was Christmas Day. But
what pleased us more than the arrival of the
twenty-fifth of December was the perception that
a little more than three weeks of such progress as
we were making would be giving us a sight of
Sydney Town. The hope made me as glad as any
of the rest. I wanted the voyage to end. I had
achieved all that was possible : had won my pet's
love, had made Aunt Damaris like me, and there
was nothing more to be done on the sea. I wished
to be ashore, to be] playing my part there as Jack
Seymour, ultimately, maybe, to escort Florence
back to England and force her father's hand,
partly by his sister's backing me and partly by my
long identification with his daughter. Anyway,
happen what might, I had had enough of the
ocean for the time being, and I remember the

pleasure I felt when I reflected that I had quitted
the life for good, and that, unlike my friend Daniel,
I need never approach salt-water again when this
voyage was over.

What sort of merrymaking the 'tween deck folks
had I can't say ; in the way of cheer I reckon the
festival to them did not go very much beyond a few
plums to spot their brown duff with. And the
forecastle, as I might be sure of, would fare no
better. Are there land-goers still flourishing who
fancy that on Christmas Day, Mercantile Jack at
sea enjoys life ? Wonderful it is where people get
their notions of the nautical calling from. I have
known a writer to send a sailor on to the jibboom
to furl it : but even that touch doesn't come near
to the extravagant fancies people have of Jack's
life when he's afloat; how his calling is made up
of dancing, singing, smoking and drinking; how
on Saturday nights he pledges his sweethearts and
wives (of whom he has a score) in large cans of
rum-punch, fragrant with lemon and screeching
hot ; how on Christmas Day he decorates his
hammock with holly, says grace over a sirloin of
beef, and sends to the captain for a j^etit verre of
cognac just to stave off indigestion after three
hateful of rich black plum-pudding. Well, there
may be ships afloat where the sailor is so served ;
but if they have owners you may bet they are the
people who hold shares in the Flying Dutchman,

Christmas rations ! I'll tell you my experience ;
a tin of yellow water such as you'd get by dropping
a bucket into the Thames abreast of the Isle of
Dogs, boiled till it steams and served out under
the title of pea-soup because of a few pale shot
dropped into it, harder than lead to the jaws ; next
a lump of greasy, rancid pork, smelling like — but
I durst not seek a comparison for that ; and last,
a mass of coarse flour worked into dough by the
help of the same sort of slush that they grease
down with and feed the forecastle lamp with,
sprinkled with two pennyworth of raisins for a mess
of ten or twelve hungry souls, boiled in a canvas
bag, then pitched into a wooden tub and called
sudden. Or for pea-soup and pork substitute a
hunk of beef so massive that you could not drive
a corkscrew into it, so tasteless in all save brine
that nothing but the cask it comes from could find
it a name ; a piece of meat you could carve into
a pipe or a snuff-box, and use ; or work up into
a doll's house, or an ornament for a mantelpiece.
Then for dessert there are biscuits so full of worms
that broken bits of the ship's bread might pass for
diseased filberts. Truly we greatest maritime
people on the face of the earth treat our sailors
nobly. Oh for the privilege of turning the tables
for six months only; of letting the sailor send
the shipowner to sea in the forecastle for that
time !

In the cuddy on that Christmas Day our dinner-table
was embellished with two plum-puddings of
large proportions and dark colour. Daniel sat
behind one of them, and from the fore-end of the
table his face would look like the moon rising over
a tumulus. It was black enough outside to make
the cuddy a brilliant and delightful shelter. You
saw the darkness lying as if it where a tarpaulin
upon the skylights, and the muffled moan of the
wind and the stifled wash of the sea ran in a grim
sound through the chattering of our voices and the
chink of plates and glasses.

I shall be glad to feel Australian ground under
my foot," said Captain Jackson; "the voyage to
the antipodes is a long business."

*' Well, sir," says Daniel, " in another month or
so I hope you'll have been long enough ashore to
make you forget all about this voyage."

Oh, it's been a good voyage — very comfortable,
I'm sure," said Captain Jackson. " Ship a trifle
deep perhaps at the start, but she's risen as she's
gone."

It's queer to think of to-day being Christmas,"
observed Mr. Thompson Tucker. " Where shall
we all be this time a year ? "

^' I suppose in hot countries there's no such thing
as Christmas Day ? " said Mrs. O'Brien.

Depends on the religion of the inhabitants,
ma'am," relied Captain Jackson.

A

"Well to be sure, I should have thought of that,"
exclaimed Mrs. O'Brien. *' Captain, how uncomfortably
the ship rolls."

Head swell and a beam sea — a nasty conjunction,"
responded Daniel. " But we're heading true
for Balmain, and by listening you should be able
presently to hear the locusts humming."

So the chattering went on, all of us taking a turn
at it, even Florence, who was usually very quiet at
table, talking briskly. There was a deal of wine-taking,
for the custom was in force then ; and I had
the honour of drinking with Aunt Damaris, who,
sitting on the skipper's right hand, had some
difficulty in seeing me ; but when she did catch
my eye her bow was a handsome one. It was a
quarter to eight ; dinner was over, but we were
lingering at table, cracking nuts and nibbling at
the biscuits, and listening to stories told first by
one and then another. Captain Jackson's yarn
reminding Mr. Joyce of an anecdote, and Mr.
Joyce's anecdote recalling an incident to somebody
else. The cheerful lamplight swung over the
table and sparkled bright in glass and silver ; you
saw the stern-cabin doors in shadow past the
mizzen mast, the companion-steps mounting to the
deck, the polished bulkheads going down with the
lamplight upon them to the cuddy front, where
the windows looking on to the maindeck stood in
ebony squares. I held my darling's hand under

the table, and my eyes There on lier face as she
listened to the story then being told.

At that instant there '^as a shock as though an
earthquake had happened right under the ship.
You heard a crash and ripping noise forward ;
shouts and screams ; the rending sound of falling
spars ; a rush of feet. The ship stopped dead,
heeling over, over to leeward till I thought she
was capsizing; some of the passengers lost their
balance and fell ; the women shrieked wildly ; a
mundi-ed articles rolled off the tables, and the
clattering and smashing of plates and wineglasses
fearfully increased the confusion. "Whether we
had driven into St. Paul's or Amsterdam Island,
or were in collision with a ship, was not to be
guessed in that cuddy. One or the other it was.
I believed that the Stratford was going bodily
down. She must have heeled over to an angle of
fifty degrees, and with Florence half-fainting lying
against me (for she was seated on my right, and the
frightful reel of the vessel threw her weight upon my
arm), I held on to the table with my teeth locked,
half-stupefied as the best of us will sometimes be
when a frightful disaster happens in a breath, when
a calamity falls like a thunder-bolt, and spreads a
hundred wild horrors ere a man can cry *^ Oh ! '*

I looked for Daniel, but he had vanished. Down
on the deck to leeward against the bulkhead which
framed the cabin doors, I saw Captain Jackson

supporting his wife who appeared in a fit ; Mr.
Joyce, with his hands bleeding, groped in a blind
way for the door of the cabin in which his children
were sleeping, staggering as he felt along
the polished panels in the very posture of a
stumbling, staggering skater upon ice ; Mrs. Grant
sat crouched on the deck amidst a whole raffle of
odds and ends which had fallen from the .table,
shrieking for her daughter, who was seated on the
right-hand side of the fore and aft table, and who,
with the others there, was rendered absolutely
helpless and incapable of stirring by the terrific
angle of the deck. There is nothing in language
to give you the feeblest idea of the frightful confusion
at that moment; the pounding of canvas
outside, the heavy scampering of feet, the wild
shouts of men, the screams of women, the heavy
washing sound of water, the hill-like angle of the
deck, the drowning heave of the stricken hull upon
the heavy swell and the sharper play of the surges.
I could not command my legs, and durst not therefore
let go of the table ; but in a few moments the
ship righted considerably, and gripping Florence
round the waist, and feeling in the grasp I took of
her that at that minute I had the strength of ten
men in me, I was bearing her to the companion
steps, when Aunt Damaris shrieked out to me to
save her, and fairly leaping from where she stood,
caught my left arm in a death-clasp.

The sensation inspired by the motion of the hull
was that she was settling down ; and any man
would have imagined this to be happening who had
felt her sluggish recovery that was like the gradual
erection a vessel takes when she founders. Believing
this, therefore, I had but one thought : to get
Florence on deck, stand by her, and take my chance
of life and death with her and at her side. But her
aunt's grasp was not to be shaken off ; the tenacity
of it was like the clip of a steel hook ; so, as it
might be, placing my half-fainting love before me
with my right arm circling her waist, I pushed my
way up the companion-ladder, dragging Aunt
Damaris in my wake, who followed as if she had
been a sack.

If I am unable to give you the least idea of the
confusion below, what am I to do with the black,
howling, thunderous scene into which I emerged
with those two women? The ship, as I might
know by the wind blowing over the taffrail, had
swung with her head to the forrard; it was as
dark as a wolf throat; here and there in the
sooty shadow you'd see the ghastly glare of foam,
flickering up an instant and disappearing ; but, oh !
it was not the blackness that made the horror;
that was in the hellish uproar along the poop and
upon the maindeck ; the yelling of men, the shrieking
of women, the shouts of captain and majestie
bawling of seamen ; there was wreckage aloft, as

you might have known by the pounding up there ;
apparently sheets and halliards had been let go fore
and aft, and the flying gear flogged the masts and
canvas as if a thousand fiends were overhead
smiting the spars and sails with thongs in their
triumph over the ear piercing anguish below.

With Florence on one arm and Aunt Damaris's
hands locked upon the other, I stood looking from
side to side seawards, to discover, if possible, the
cause of this disaster, for whether we had struck an
iceberg, or a rock, or a ship, or one of those lumping
derelicts which encumber the ocean to the
frequent destruction of vessels, I could not imagine ;
but I could see nothing — not a light, not an outline,
not a deeper shadow anywhere to tell me of some
object besides ourselves being upon that weltering
black surface. I had dragged Florence and her
aunt to the rail just abaft the foremost of the two
quarter-boats — the Stratlimore slung two on either
hand, and a gig over the stern, and had besides
a big long boat stowed forward abaft the galley —
and as I stood struggling to pierce the scene before
acting, dozens of figures came rushing past us,
and there was a mad tumble of two score of
them, at least, into the boats; but there was no
sailor among them ; they were evidently steerage
and 'tween deck passengers, they knew nothing
of handling the falls or casting the gripes adrift,
and I supposed the* durst not use their knives for

VOL. III. G

fear of losing the boats. It was a selfish brutal
struggle, as far as I could make out, and all the
actors were men ; and knowing very well that all
the good they could do would be to drown themselves
and lose the boats for us, I struggled to free
myself from Aunt Damaris.

"Oh, Jack, do not leave me ! " shrieked
Florence.

** My darling ! " I cried, '' let me save those boats
if I can. Let me find out what has happened.
We may not be in immediate danger. Stop where
you are — and trust to me — both of you trust to me !
Let go of my arm. Miss Hawke ! for Christ's sake
let go ! I have been a sailor — I may be of service — "
and with a wrench I broke away, and sprang into
the thick of the nearest of the groups struggling at
the boats.

*men!" I shouted, in a voice to which my
excitement lent a volume that I often recall as an
incredible sound for my lungs to produce, 'the
captain says there is no danger ! the well has been
sounded ; the ship is tight. Out of those quarter-boats
for your lives ! If the gripes give way they'll
capsize and drown every mother's fen of you.
Stick to the ship ! I tell you she's as sound as
she was when she left London ! " and without ado
I fell to dragging the fellows off the hen-coops,
man handling them as if I were in the thick of a
death-struggle, calling upon those who had sense in

them, who were Englishmen and had the spirit of
men, to help me to save the madmen from drowning
themselves ; and so fiercely did I pull and haul
upon the cowards, flinging them hack, all the while
roaring out that the ship was as tight as a bottle,
that some of them believed me and lent me a
hand, and presently groups of them were standing
at the hen-coops, listening to me swearing that
there was no danger, that there were boats and to
spare for us all if there loerc danger, that the
captain would not suffer a life to be lost if they
would be cool, and so on : all urged in the most
passionate, shouting, convincing tone ; though
some still stuck to the boats, cowering down in
them as they swung at the davits. There was a
hand at the wheel — you just caught the glimmer of
his outline in the haze of the binnacle-lamp ; and
well I recall shrieking to those dastards to look at
HIM ! did they think if the ship was sinking that
sailor there would be coolly steering her ? And
this simple thing they seemed to find more reassuring
than all my other outcries put together.

By this time I might tell that the others on the
maindeck were being pacified or persuaded into
some approach to orderliness, though again and
again a woman's scream would go shrill up into
the blackness, where there seemed to be a storm
with the slatting of canvas and the whipping of
mutilated gear. There was the shining of lanterns

on the maindeck, and I sprang off the poop ; finding
right under the break of it an nnder- steward
holding a lamp there, I collared him and ran him
up the ladder, bawling, " Bring that light aft !
There's a gang of cowards there ready to get the
boats over. The lighter give them heart ! " and I
hurried him to the after-skylight. " There," I
cried ; " stand you here with that light. Here, m}'
lads," I shouted, addressing the swarm that hovered
near the boats, '' come and assemble round this
light. I tell you the ship's tight — tight as ever she
Alas ! " And a number of them came at once and
grouped themselves about the lantern, taken by the
light as the human eye always is in darkness and
in a moment of terror, and perhaps finding a trifle
of courage now that the shrieking and yelling had
subsided and the ship went on living.

I went away again to the fore end of the poop,,
and found a man at the head of the poop-ladder.
I peered close and said, " Is that you, Daniel ? "

'eyes," he answered.

"What report for the cowards aft? I can help
you by keeping them in check."

We have been run into by a big steamer," * he
replied, talking fiercely, like a man in a fever;
'•' she has holed us under the starboard bow, and
the fore compartment is full of water. If the

He said it was a steamer ; but this was never known. If she
showed any lights they were not seen by the look-omit or the officer
«!' the watch. — Jack,

bulkhead gives we shall go clown like a stone. —
Mr. Thornton ! " he roared to the mate ; and I ran to
where I had left ni" love to tell her what I had heard.
Talk of Nightmare ! Queer sights I admit are
beheld in ugly' dreams, but I should like to know
what wildest phantasy of slumber ever came up to
the vision of that crowd of men hovering around
the lantern on the skylight — one brandishing his
arms in the insanity that had come to him with
his fear, and raving dismal trash about his being
one of the elect of God, and the only man in that
ship sure of going to heaven ; three or four of them
on their knees praying; two — brothers maybe —
locked in an embrace ; whilst from time to time
one or another v;ould start and run for the main-deck,
perhaps to find the vromen of his family;
these fellows had forgotten them, you'd notice;
they were all men who had rushed to those boats ;
whilst others stood with their arms folded, like
persons who reckoned their time had come and
were going to their death lost in thought. Well,
an actor in such a scene as this is not a fit person
to pant it. He'll see but little ; the impression is
a mixture of wild horror and hideous clamour, the
rushing of the wind through rigging, the unearthly
sobbing and washing of water, the deep gloom that
puts the ship out of sight past the mainmast, and
the breathless, thrilling, maddening expectation of
the next moment finding him with the salt-water

burning this throat, and the swoon of drowning cold
in bis brains.

"What is our situation?" cried Aunt Damaris.
Are we sinking, Mr. Egerton ? "

"No," I answered, clasping Florence to me; *' a
steamer has struck us, made a bole in the bow, and
filled the fore compartment with water. But the
bulkhead that prevents the water flowing into the
after portions of the ship is bound to be substantial,
and you may be sure there is no immediate danger.
Besides, we bave thorough seamen in Captain
Thompson and bis officers. I know by the orders
I bave caught what they bave been doing. You
may trust the captain ; if be believed the danger
immediate bed give orders for the boats to be
cleared — " and I broke off, feeling Florence
shivering, to cry, " My God ! you are both without
covering for your heads ! Pray be advised — go to
your cabin and warmly clothe yourselves — I will
accompany you ! "

But Aunt Damaris cried that she would not leave
the deck — if she was to be drowned it would be in
the open air, not in her cabin ; and seeing Florence
move as if she meant to go below with me, she
seized bold of her and shrieked to her not to leave
her alone. Seeing this, I ran as fast as my legs
would carry me to the companion and entered their
cabin, where, fortunately, a bracket lamp was
burning. I overhauled the wearing apparel I

found about the place and picked out Aunt
Damaris's bonnet and Florence's bat, along with
a cloak, a shawl, and some wraps ; and with this
armful I returned on deck, noticing as I passed
through the cuddy that it was deserted, and most
of the cabin doors wide open. I attired the ladies
in the things I had brought with me, and whilst
I was thus occupied, endeavouring to encourage
them by such plain practical talk as a sailor will
know how to use at a time like this, the second
mate, followed by eight or ten seamen, came along
the poop and ordered the 'tween deck passengers onto
the maindeck. They hung in the wind, but the
second mate was a blunt-spoken, sinew' fellow, and
he had received his orders.

"Away with ye!" he cried, catching up the
lantern and swinging it around him; 'you'll be
no safer here than there, so off you go. Why,
you curs ! where are the women, that you're all
here about the boats without 'em ? Off with you
now, for you're in the road here ; " and he and the
sailors beginning to shove and push and show
themselves in earnest, the fellows went away
towards the maindeck, sullenly and reluctantly
enough, as though they supposed the boats were
to be kept for the cuddy passengers ; the creature
who had gone mad, as I took it, springing and
dancing as he went, snapping his fingers and
flourishing his arms, and hoarsely bawling that

he was one of the elect and that there was nobody
to be saved in that ship but himself !

When the. poop was cleared, the second mate and
the others of the crew immediately applied themselves
to seeing the boats ready for lowering.
There were some Hweendeck passengers still
skulking in those boats, but so far as I could make
out in the darkness they were very roughly and
unceremoniously hauled out and trotted forward
by the seamen, who were then posted in couples
at the four quarter-boats and gig to guard them.
Meanwhile I might judge by the grunting and
screaming of pigs forward that they were clearing
the long-boat ready for hoisting her over the side.
Pray God, I thought to myself, that the ship lives
till daylight at least ; but this making ready with
the boats was a terribly ominous sign, and for the
life of me I could not forbear a shudder of despair
sweeping through me as I reflected on the long
hours of darkness which lay before us, and on the
consequences of the rush which would take place if
the bulkhead that stood betwixt us and eternity
yielded to the pressure of the water that filled the
fore compartment. Again and again I probed the
deep darkness upon the sea in the hope of discovering
some sign of the vessel that had run into
us. If she were afloat she could not be far off;
little more than ten minutes had passed since the
blow of her stem had hove the Strathmnrr on to her

beam ends, during wliicli time we could have put
but a short distance between her and us had she
chosen to remain on the spot ; but nothing was to
be seen of her, so that, unless she had herself*
foundered, then most assuredly had she left us to
our fate.

When the poop had been cleared of the 'tween-deck
people, I caught sight of the cuddy passengers
congregated around the companion; it was too
dark to see more than the blotch they made upon
the shadow, but I knew who those people would
be. I proposed that we should join them, and
Aunt Damaris consenting, I took Florence by the
hand whilst the old lady clung to my left arm, and
walked over to the companion. Fourteen of the
passengers were assembled here, and though one
heard no strong demonstrations of terror or grief,
sobs and sighs broke plentifully from the women,
and one of the Joycess' little children cried continuously.


'' Is that you, Mr. Egerton ? " called out Captain
Jackson, from the thick of the group.

"Yes," I answered.

"Do you Imo," cried he, hoarsely, "if the
captain or any of his mates mean to tell us what's
happened and what we are to expect ? That
duty's his."

They're full of business," I answered. " Can't
you hear them shouting ? There's been disorder

as bad as a mutiny among the 'tween deck people,
and the getting them quiet, and ascertaining the
nature of the injmy and providing for the safety of
the ship is as much as we have a right to expect of
captain and officers at such a moment as this."

"Do you know what the injmy is?" exclaimed
Mr. Jo3^ce, speaking out of the gloom beyond the
companion in the voice of a man babbling in a
dream.

A steamer has struck us and made a hole
under the bow," I replied. '' The fore compartment
is full of water, but the collision bulkhead
stands, and whilst it stands the shiiD is as safe as
she's been at any time of the voyage."

'^ This comes from the cursed habit of merchantmen
neglecting to put then* side-lights out when
on the high seas," cried Captain Jackson, whose
temper rose in proportion as our danger seemed
the less urgent.

"Where's the ship that struck us?" said Mr.
Griffith, the doctor, shoving himself towards me,
and speaking in a voice more like a gasp than a
human note : " has she left us ? "

"I'm afraid she has," I replied.

Oh, Mr. Egerton, do you think we're in
danger ? " cried Mrs. Joyce, and the sobbing of the
others ceased till I had answered.

"If the bulkhead stands we're not in danger," I
answered; "if it yields without wholly carrying

away, we have hands enough for the pumps to
keep the water under. If the worst comes to the
worst, then there are boats enough for all ; we are
right in the track of ships, and we have honest
right, therefore, in any case to consider our safety
assured."

Oh, if you speak the truth, thank God for your
words ! thank God for your words ! " broke out Mr.
Marmaduke Mortimer, in an hysterical cry.

Noticing in the dimness that hung about the-companion
from the faint haze of light floating
up the steps from the illuminated cuddy, that the
ladies and children were uncovered, I exhorted
the gentlemen to take them below and properly
equip them for any term of exposure that might
be in store, begging them not to think that
the danger would be more urgent because the'
took care to provide for whatever might happen.
Some of them immediately acted on my suggestion.
Just then Daniel, from the fore part of the poop,
shouted to the man at the wheel to put his helm
a-starboard; some hands came running aft and
rounded in the main-braces so as to lay the topsail
aback. The wind blew fresh and keen from the
southward, and the easterly swell came along in a
dull roll out of the blackness that made the ship
stagger again on the northward-running surges.
There was very little noise now in the ship ; forward
you could hear the boatswain's strong voice directing

some of the crew who were busy with the
wreckage that way ; there was a kind of humming,
too, down on the maindeck, as of a congregation of
people eagerly talking, intermixed with the cries
of children and sometimes the high-lifted voices of
women; hut the distracting rattling and slatting
of canvas and gear aloft had been stilled ; whatever
work was doing was being done quietly and systematically,
and one felt to a degree not to be expressed
the wonderfully soothing influence of the spirit of
disciple that had followed fast upon the first
terrible confusion and alarm.

No sooner was the ship brought to the wind thana
rocket was fired and sent up fair betwixt the main
and crossjack j^ardarms by a man who in the blue
glimmer I made out to be the third mate. The
ghastly ball of fire shot strong through the wind,
and broke at a great height in the deep blackness
and sailed in a shower of blue spangles for a
moment or two ere vanishing. The humming on
the maindeck at the sight of that wild signal
swelled up loud, with a groaning throughout the
length of the labouring hull as though every
timber in the ship were in sympathy with the fear
that rushing ball of fire had kindled; but a few
loudly spoken words of command and encouragement
from the chief mate, who was either among
the people there or on one of the poop ladders,
subdued the cries and exclamations. Another

rocket was fired, and then a third. Whilst this
last was sweeping upwards the captain came to us.
By this time those of the passengers who had gone
below had returned, and we made a fair crowd as
we stood in the place we had chosen near the
companion.

"Ladies and gentlemen," said Daniel, in the
plain, simple way of a seaman, speaking without a
hint of the excitement that had made his voice
febrile when he answered my question, " I ask
your pardon for not having come to you before.
But your lives are concerned in the safety of this
ship, and in looking to her first I hope I have
served you better than by merely palavering you.
You know what has happened ? "

Some blackguard steamer has run into us,
backed out and left us," said Captain Jackson.

"That is so," exclaimed Daniel; 'but we are
testing by those signals whether she has left us.
If she be afloat she may return and stand by us.
If she has gone down these rockets m<^y enable
us to save the lives of her survivors, if any there
be, by bringing them to us."

Will the ship sink, captain ? " cried Aunt
Damaris.

He answered her as I had ; that the ship) would
float if the collision bulkhead withstood the
pressure of the water. A whole volley of questions
were then poured into him. What was to

become of them, Mr. Thompson Tucker wanted
to know, if the vessel did sink ? Mr. Joyce asked
if the bulkhead could not be strengthened. Captain
Jackson stormed about the neglect in not
putting the side lamps over. Indeed, I cannot
remember what was said. I can recall Daniel's
quiet manner, his hearty encouraging assurances,
and that's about all ; and my recollection is bright
in that particular direction, because of the wonder
I felt at the time that a man in charge of a ship
that might sink at any moment, burdened with
the fearful responsibility of the large number of
lives in her, with the long black night before him,
and for thousands of miles no nearer land than two
little rocks lying dead to windward and as easily
to be missed in open boats as an open boat is
easily to be missed by a ship, — I say I remember
him at that time because of the wonder he excited
in me by his perfectly cool and collected manner,
his answers made as quietly as if he was seated
at the head of his dinner-table, and the wise encouragement
he offered the ladies, not idly priming
them with hope, yet making them understand that
they were in no danger then, though peril might
come, in which case he was there to deal with it.

Whilst he conversed with us, I took notice that the
second mate came along the poop and turned the
men who had been stationed to guard the boats to
the job of watering and provisioning them. Every

lantern that the ship yielded had been brought on
deck to encourage the people and enable the crew
to work quickly and without confusion. Some of
these lanterns were brought aft, and you saw the
men going forward and then coming to the boats
again, bearing breakers full of water, tins of preserved
meats, bags of ship's bread, and such things.
A fourth rocket had been fired, but no response
had been made. One looked in vain into the
deep gloom made weird here and there, low down,
by the gleam of phosphorus or the pallid flash of
foam ; there was nothing to be seen but the black
night stooping in one unbroken, sooty surface to
the sea, with the fresh wind sweeping through it,
bleak as a March easterly blast, and grim, straining
sounds of spars and gear aloft.

*' Captain Jackson, Mr. Joyce, gentlemen," exclaimed
Daniel, 'let me beg of j^ou to hand the
ladies below. No good can be done by keeping
them in the cold up here. It'll hearten the others
on the maindeck, too, to see you sitting quietly
in the cuddy. Trust to me, gentlemen and ladies,
to give you timely warning should the leak gain
upon us. Already your safety is amply provided
for."

No one stirred. The wives seemed to cong to
their husbands with a tighter hold, and there
looked to be a huddling together amongst the
whole group of us as though there was a general

recoil from the thought of going below. The
lanterns in the men's hands shed a dim light
along the deck, and looking round our faces,
which showed white enough with the eyes gleaming
against the blackness beyond, Daniel caught
sight of me.

"Jack Seymour," said he, "you re an old fist,
an old shipmate and sailor. You'll know we want
a clear deck and that it's cruel to keep the ladies
here. For God's sake set our friends an example.
Miss Hawke," meaning Florence, 'let Mr. Sey-mour
take you below — the others will follow you
I am sure."

They probably fancied he had forgotten my
name when they heard him call me Jack Seymour.
But heaven knows it was no moment for wondering.
I seized Florence's hand and said to her
aunt, "Miss Hawke, the captain is quite right.
We're in the road, and as safe below as here.
Pray take my arm and accompany me."

She obeyed mechanically, seemingly half stupefied.
I led her do^Ti the companion steps with
Florence's hand in mine, she behind ; we entered
the cuddy, and I handed them to a sofa at the
foot of the ladder. None of the others immediately
followed, and I could hear Daniel expostulating
and entreating. The cuddy lamps shone as they
had at dinner. The deck was still littered with
the crockery and stuff that had rolled off the table,

and some of the Cabin-doors swung open and
banged to with the rolling and heaving of the
ship. Maybe it was nothing but fancy, not fit to
strike me any way; yet I swear that the feel of
the Ill under my feet, now that we had a deck
over our heads, was a sensation as if the fabric
were settling, and she never rolled quickly to leeward
but that the movement seemed the drowning
lurch a ship will take before she puts her bows
or her stern into it and goes down to her grave.

I sat between Aunt Damaris and Florence,
chafing my darling's hand that was cold as ice,
and whispering whatever encouragement it came
into my head to offer her, sometimes glancing
from her marble-ike face, with her eyes bright
with consternation, though there was a look
gathering about her sweet mouth that showed me
her spirit was slowly returning —glancing from
her, I say, to the crowd of figures huddled under
the break of the poop, many of them fitfully turning
to look in at us through the windows and the
glazed tops of the cuddy doors, and plainly hearing
the bewildered growling of their voices as they
feverishly conversed.

Suddenly the old lady said, " Mr. Egerton ! "

I looked at her, and she fixed her eyes like a
pair of gimlets upon me.

Is your name Jack Seymour ? "

"It is."

VOL. in. n

'rare you the — the gentleman whose attentions
my niece was sent on this voyage to escape ? "

'' I am," I replied.

She clasped her hands and drew a deep breath.
She was too much confounded to speak. She
rolled her eyes wildly over me, and then looked
up at the black skylight, and then at me again.
You could see the horror of our situation driving
through the feelings her discovery had excited like
a squall sweeping through and scattering a fog.

'' Oh ! " she screamed out, as if all these things
coming together were too much for her, and
affecting her mind, " what have I been reserved
for ? "

'miss Hawke," said I, gently, "this, God
knows, is no time for anger, for explanation, for
anything more than an earnest prayer that
heaven will watch over us and preserve us. I am
here because I love your niece, Florence ; there was
no ocean wide enough to separate me from her."

Oh, Florence, Florence ! " cried the poor old
body, sobbing, though with diy eyes.

"Aunt," said my darling, "Mr. Seymour joined
this ship without my knowledge. But when I
knew that he was on board, aunt, I was glad, for
I love him — indeed, indeed I love him — oh, nevermore
than now ! and I thank God he is by my
side ! " and she threw" her arms round my neck,
and wept grievously on my breast.

I kissed her and soothed her, and said to the old
lady, "1 am not ashamed of what I have done.
I would do it again, and again, and again ; " and
I felt the hot triumphant blood in my face as I
held my darling to my heart, and fixed my eyes
on Aunt Damaris's face. She eyed me with a
look of stupor.

And you are Mr. Jack Seymour, then — not
Egerton ! you are Mr. Jack Seymour — not Egerton
! " was all she could say.

I had as much right to be here as Mr.
Morecombe," I answered, in a low voice.

This put a kind of life in her. She gave a start
and cried out, 'don't speak of him why did
you not tell me who you were ? Oh, Florence !
how could you, how could you have deceived me
so basely ! "

My darling lifted her sweet streaming face.
** Don't say basely, aunt; don't say basely. He
asked me to keep his secret, and I did so because
I loved him. Basely, aunt ! oh, remember why
this voyage was undertaken ! Was there no baseness
in not telling me that Mr. Morecombe was
to join us ? And which of the two," she cried, ina
victorious tone, that swelled high in her rich
voice and smoothed every tremor out of it, " would
you rather have with us noir — this sailor, whom
papa cruelly misrepresented to you, or that ? "

Oh, I cannot bear it ! I cannot bear it ! "

shrieked out the old lady, Vehemently interrupting
her niece. " Oh, Mr. Seymour ! I could forgive

you if you hadn't Oh dear, oh dear ! what a

dreadful situation for me to find myself in ! " and
she buried her face in her hands and rocked to
and fro as if she were in an agony of pain.

CHAPTEK IV.

WAITING.

So now the murder was out. Aunt Damaris at
last, thanks to Daniel, knew who I was, but it was
like confessing on the brink of the grave. What
significance had my love-chase, my courtship, my
masquerade, in the teeth of the tremendous calamity
that had overtaken the Stratford ? Whilst Aunt
Damaris sat rocking upon the sofa with her face
buried, and Florence leaned against me within
the embrace of my arm, Mrs. Grant and her
daughter, followed by Mr. and Mrs. Joyce, the
nurse and children, came below and seated themselves.
It made one sorrowful to see those little
ones, when the nurse and the parents lifted and
hushed them in their arms, looking wonderingly
and drowsily around, as if they could not understand
why they had been snatched from their beds,
and why they were not laid down again.

You are wise to come below," I said, addressing
Mr. Joyce. "In trouble of this kind, passengers

never can give sailors too clear a deck to run about
upon."

"I had no idea that you had been a sailor, "^
responded Mr. Joyce.

"Yes," said I, hanging my head, "I ^'as at sea
for some years."

*' One should have supposed so from the manner
in which you rescued my darling, Mr. Egerton,"
exclaimed Mrs. Joyce, hugging the child to her,
and giving me the name I had sailed under,
though this reference to my having been to sea
proved they had taken notice of Daniel's exclamation
to me, and if so, then of the name he had
called me by in his hurry and anxiety.

"If the ship sinks and we are saved by the
boats, I suppose all that we have must be left
behind us ? " said poor old Mrs. Grant, who sat
hand in hand with her daughter, speaking with an
air of resignation.

Oh, don't talk of the ship sinking ! " cried out
Aunt Damaris.

Not yet, anyway," said I. " Pity it is not the
other end of the night. But listen ! do you notice
there is no clanking sound of pumps ? The carpenter,
you may be sure, is standing over the well
with the sounding-rod, and whilst those pumps are
silent, you may know that no water has penetrated
the bulkhead, and that the ship remains perfectly
safe."

"It does me good to bear you talk," said Aunt
Damans. " I am sure you would not deceive us."

'' I would not indeed," I answered.

"How long were you at sea, Mr. — Mr. Sey-mour
? " I told her. " You must know all about
it," sbe exclaimed, edging up to me, so to speak, in
ber manner.

I know enough to keep a faithful and vigilant
eye on you and your niece's safety, and to place
my life at your service, if my life can help you,"
said I.

Sbe turned ber face aside, and said " God bless
you ! " in a voice that was like that of a woman of
eighty.

If we bave to take to the boats they must not
separate us. Jack," exclaimed Florence, loud enough
for ber aunt, but not for the others, to bear. " I
could not bear that."

"We'll not speak of the boats yet, my darling,"
I replied. " We may never need them. If the
bulkhead bolts, the compartment being full of
water will not binder us from finding our way into
Sydney Harbour."

But tbougb I spoke thus, I bad small hope.
Tbe Stratford was a stoutly-built ship, but
tbougb ber frames were of iron, the two bulkhead
with wbicb sbe was fitted — one forward and one
aft, leaving the bold a long clear space — were of
wood, as those fittings usually were in sailing

vessels in those days. These bulkheads sere
formed of vertical plank tongued and tie-bolted,
as it is called, and ''chinsed" or very lightly
caulked, so that as water-tight divisions they could
not be reckoned perfectly trustworthy, though, now
and again, they had saved a ship. There was
indeed the chance of the inimps being able to keep
the ship afloat should the bulkhead only leak; but
after such a blow. as the steamer had dealt us,
apparently cutting the starboard bow right down,
carrying away spars and jibbooms forward, and
causing the ship to heel over as if the colliding
vessel would steam right over her, there was no
telling the strain to which the bulkhead had been
subjected; so that at any moment the weight of
water in the fore compliment might, during a
heave up of the bows, bm*st through the bulkhead,
flood the hold in a breath, and send the ship,
deep in the water as she already was with many
hundreds of tons of freight, to the bottom like a
stone. This was Daniel's fear, as he had admitted ;
but my own judgment in this respect hardly needed
the confirmation of even his large professional
knowledge.

Miserable it was to an eager, restless man like
myself, to be sitting in that cuddy, inactive and
waiting for something to happen. Yet I was buta
passenger ; I had been asked to set an example ;
I could do no good on deck, for there were hands

and to spare for such work as was to be clone
in the blackness, and haply I could have been
more ill employed than in striving to keep up the
spirits of the poor women, and in cherishing and
encouraging my darling, who had turned to me in
this supreme moment even as a wife might turn to
her husband, knowing him her best friend under
God. Many a time since, when I have read of
collisions, I have recalled that dreadful night and
thought that if there is a kind of work in this
world into which a man engaged in it should put
the full honesty of his soul, knowing that hundreds
of lives may depend upon every blow of his hammer,
every fair rivet-hole, every sound fastening,
it is that of the shipwright. You must go through
it to know what it is to be in a ship in a time of
disaster, and to feel that betwixt you and the bottomless
dee]) there stands nothing but the labour of
an artizan. If that labour be true, if he has toiled
upon the fabric feeling always that precious human
lives will trust him and face the dangers of the
deep in the fruits of his handiwork, then when in
calamity his workmanship is found staunch and
his fellow-creatures are preserved by it, surely, ail-silently,
he has achieved a feat that for heroism of
conscience raises him among the highest of life-saves.
But if, on the other hand, his work is
false, and those who trusted themselves to him
unquestioning, perish because the acquisition of a

few infamouslj^-earued pounds weighed more with
him than the agony of scores of helpless create-es
hurried into eternity', then may he understand that
there is one sailor at least who denounces him as
the vilest of murderers, the most infamous of
assassins; and let those titles he worn hy any
man who is responsible for courting sailors and
passengers into a ship which he knows to be ill-built,
or ill-formed, or in any way unseaworthy.
No, no ; this is not too strong, mates ; it doesn't
tell half; I'm no fist at fine writing; I speak what
I think, and what you'd think, had 3'ou sat in that
cuddy, looked at the women there, at the groups
showing in the light through the windows, heard
the wash of waters, known the blackness that
hung like a shroud outside, realized the frightful
immensity of the ebony ocean in which we then
were, and reflected that your own and the lives
of the five-score souls who were in that ship hung
not upon a few three or four-inch planks, but upon
the honesty with which they had been fitted.

In twos and ; threes the other passengers now
came below, the last to arrive being Captain Jackson
and his wife. The time passing, and nothing
worse seeming to come to the ship than the blow
that had hove her over, put a little spirit into
most of us. The most dejected and downcast of
us all was Mr. Thompson Tucker, who sat silent
and miserably white, starting convulsively as if

to rush on deck whenever the vessel rolled more
heavily than usual, and constantly gazing around
him with wild and terrified eyes. I recalled the
remark about him I had made when he joked over
the dead seaman in the life-buoy, and thought to
myself that for once in my life anyhow, I had
shown myself a prophet.

They seem to have brought the ship) to her
course again, Captain Jackson," said I.

They have," he answered. " It's not what I
should recommend. I should heave her to on the
starboard-tack, and smother the hole in her bow
by thrumming a sail, and securing it round the
cutwater and under the keel. If you can't stop a
leak by bothering, you can ease the pressure of
water upon the hole."

"Depend upon it Captain Thompson knows
what he's about, sir," said Mr. Griffith, petulantly.

Knows what he's about ! " shouted the navy
man. " Would this collision have happened had
he had his side-lights over ? It's all very well for
his officers to defend him, but who the devil, I
want to know, is going to make good the loss of
my baggage and my wife's, if we've to take to the
boats?"

Oh, let us have no quarrelling at this dreadful
time ! " groaned Aunt Damaris.

You'll not be the only loser. Captain Jackson'*
said Mr. Jojcq.

'' Supposing there is any loss at all," I added.

''If only our lives are spared— if only these
little ones are preserved, the sea may take all
else," cried Mrs. Joyce, convulsively hugging her
little girl.

Nurse, why oo not put little Tommy to bed ?
he is so sleepy ! " here piped out the mite in
the nurse's arms, meaning by little Tommy,
himself. "Mamma, Tommy cannot seep in nurse's
arms."

This set my darling crying, and well it might ;
for, on my word, nothing makes a shipwreck sadder
than children. They are ignorant of what is going
on ; they will play or prattle or lie slumbering
peacefully down to the last moment ; and to look
from them to the fearful reality is to behold a
contrast that might well break the heart.

Meanwhile, by order of the captain, of course,
the stewards had returned to the cuddy, and had
gone to work to clear the deck of the dinner litter,
and to place spirits and wine and biscuits as usual
upon the table. It was now nine o'clock by my
watch. Nothing more had been said to me by Aunt
Damaris about my being Jack Seymour; indeed,
for a long while, she had sat by my side without
uttering a syllable, except Vviien she had called to
Captain Jackson not to quarrel. My left arm
circled Florence who leaned against me, and again
and again I would say something encouraging to

her, telling her to take notice how easy the motion
of the ship was, how the pumps remained idle, a
sure sign that the water was confined forward, and
so on. Every word thus spoken she would answer
with a loving smile or glance, or with a caress of
her cheek upon my shoulder. We were lovers
without fear that dismal night. There was no
more acting, no more taking care because others
were looking on. We showed ourselves wedded
in heart, as the others showed themselves who
were wedded indeed ; and never a word did Aunt
Damaris say, who had the full truth of it now ;
she let her niece cling to me as if it were right
that she should do so, whilst she herself stuck like
a barnacle to my side, as if, in one short hour, all
the prejudices against that vulgar young sailor
chap, Jack Seymour, with which she had been
primed by Alphonso, had been swept away forward
into the fore compartment and dissolved in the
water there.

Seeing the grog on the table, I mixed a small
quantity of brandy and water, and insisted upon
Aunt Damaris and Florence drinking. I then
called to Thompson Tucker to wake up and bea
man, and attend to poor Mrs. O'Brien, and I
also induced Mrs. and Miss Grant to drink, but
the others I left to their husbands. I took care ta
swallow a nip myself, saying as I held up the
glass, " Here, ladies and gentlemen, I drink ta

the good ship Stratford. She has carried us
safely through two oceans and a half; she has
the scent of the Australian shores in her nose,
she knows the road, and under God who watches
over brave English seamen — and there are hearts
of oak in this vessel. Captain Jackson, though she
mounts no guns — she'll not betray us ! "

'' Hurrah ! " cried Mr. Griffith ; " Hurrah ! "
cried Mr. Joyce ; and little Tommy in the nurse's
arms, cried " Hookah ! " You saw the poor people
under the break of the x^oop crowding and elbowing
round the windows to have a look at us when they
heard this cheering. More yet was wanted, so
still standing at the table and flourishing the glass
I had emptied as a band conductor would a baton,
I piped up at the top of my voice —

Cheer, boys, cheer ! no more of idle sorrow,
Courage, true hearts ! shall bear us on our way !
Hope points before and shows the bright tomorrow — "

the best song, by George, I could have pitched upon
for such a time ; and hang me, boys, if, with the
exception of Mrs. Grant and Aunt Damaris, they
didn't all come into the chorus ; I wouldn't let them
off; one after another I looked them in, singing
meanwhile with all my lungs, until the cuddy rang
again with the hearty inspiriting words and tune.
Ay, shipwreck is the time to test the value of song-writing.
Think of a sentimental ditty at such a
moment ! It would be worse than a green sea

washing fore and aft. The man that can give
people a song that'll put heart and life into them in
spite of death grinning at them down through the
skylight, is the lad for me, and were the whole
ocean made of rum there wouldn't be too much of
it for sailors to drink such a man's health in.

"Oh, Mr. Egerton, you're the boy to do us
good," exclaimed poor Mrs. O'Brien, still calling
me Egerton.

I now said I would step on deck for a few
minutes to have a look at the weather and get the
latest news.

Don't be long ! " cried Aunt Damaris. " I
shall follow you if you are."

I promised to return speedily, and bring the
captain with me too, if he could leave the deck,
and with a smile from my darling, I jumped on to
the companion ladder and gained the poop.

It took me some moments to find my sight, for
the night lay still a very dark shadow, though not
so dark as it was an hour before. I stood a bit
groping with my eyes, and by-and-by got the outline
of the rail, the mizzen mast along with the
loom of the yards, then the binnacle haze with the
helmsman behind it like a blot of ink in the darkness
over the taffrail. There was a very fine rain
in the wind, more like mist than rain. Not being
able to see forwards where the w^reckage was, the
ship seemed as usual. The phosphorous gleamed

in^the bows of the curling seas, and the cold breeze
swei3t up shrill into the black canvas. But one
thing I seemed to find — that the ship was down by
the head, so deep there, indeed, that every fall of
her bows raised her stern high, and made the
glooming deep forward look to slant up as tall as
the fore yardarms. This was to be expected ; but
you wanted to be on deck to realize to the full your
knowledge of a huge rent in the ship's bow. Why,
it made me shiver as I stood staring forwards when
the head swell lifted her, for then it came into one
with a flash, that the weight of the water in the
compartment was at such a moment full on the
bulkhead, and that if it went, the ship would
vanish in a few minutes. I spied two figures at
the foremost end of the poop, and walked to
them.

"Is that you, Jack?" said Daniel.

"Yes."

It was you that set them off singing, eh ? I
looked through the skylight when I heard the
hullabaloo, and watched you beating the time into
'em with a tumbler. It's the help I want. It's
like your old self."

What's been done, Daniel, may I ask ? Have
you managed to solder the old hooker's wound in
any fashion ? "

All that can be done has been done," he
answered. " We have got a sail over the bows, and

the pressure of the driving stem should keep it
over the hole, and it may relieve the bulkhead
somewhat. A hole do I call it ? Why the carpenter
reports half the starboard bow smashed in,
bathed and starboard fore channel gone, foretop-mast
gone at the cap, jibbooms gone, and that's
only the beginning. The steamer's bows have cut
clean through into the topgallant forecastle. If
daylight ever shines upon us, you'll see nothing buta
wreck forward."

*• The bulkhead's our bows; we're driving through
it with nothing else," said Daniel's companion, who
proved to be Mr. Thornton.

Are you wise in driving ? " I asked.

** What's the difference, whether we drive or
heave-to, man ? The waterfall come in any way.
Driving at least keeps the sail over the bow."

"If the bulkhead goes, then," said I, "we go
with it — without time enough to say our prayers ! "

Oh, if it carries away, it'll have to carry away
aft," replied the chief mate ; " and it can't do that
bodily I fancy, for the cargo's chock up against it.
The plank mays start under the pressure or the
caulking fail, and let the water in faster than we
can pump it out ; and to jettison the cargo thereto
come at that leakage would imperil the whole
bulkhead. But the water's not likely to come in in
such a hurry as to drown us out of hand. At least
I hope not."

VOL. III. I

For a man to hope that a dreadful thing will
not happen does not encourage one much.

Can I say a word to you, Thompson ? " I exclaimed.
He drew away from the mate. " Daniel,"
said I, " I don't think we must put any faith in
that bulkhead."

No," he replied, '' we must not trust it, though
whilst it holds it's good. If it'll stand till daylight,
without driving us to the pumps, I shall be
satisfied."

Daniel, I wish to ask you as an old friend and
shipmate, should it come to our taking to the boats,
to allow me and my sweetheart and her aunt to be
together."

'^I see no difficulty," he replied. "You can
have charge of one of the boats and welcome.
You shall know which when the time comes.
Thornton and I must talk over that business of
leaving the ship. If the ladies are willing to accompany
you, they're welcome enough. But, Jack, this
is a fearful blow, — a fearful blow for me, my lad."

I grasped his hand. " Of course it is, Daniel.
A worse could hardly befall a shipmaster. But
you have met it as a man, you are carrying it
through as a man, and if God spares our lives
you'll have a hundred witnesses at your back to
prove how the thing happened. Professionally it
wil leave you unharmed, and in what other way
can it injure you ? "

"Heaven grant we all come safe out of it ! " he
exclaimed with a slight falter in^his voice. " Have
you anything more to say to me, Jack ? "

"According to our reckoning to-day, St. Paul's
Island will be about a hundred odd miles away out
to windward yonder."

"Yes, yes, I know what's in your mind," he
answered; "we have discussed that question and
settled it. I'd rather take my chance of that bulkhead,
and the pumps with such gangs as we can
put to them, than ratch to that island with the
likelihood of the ship going to pieces before we can
land the few stores which remain. By holding on
we may fall in with a vessel to keep us company,
and pull through the accursed job after all. But to
fetch that island would be to cast the ship away.
There's damage yonder that's not to be repaired
out of dry dock ; nd you've got to realize what
one hundred of us, men, women, and children,
thrown upon that rock, would signify, lingering
there maybe for weeks, ultimately to rot away.
No, no ! let us push on — let us shove on."

Well, in the marine calling there is more difference
of opinion than in any other. Had I had
charge of that ship, with her starboard bow torn
out and nothing to trust to but a bulkhead, I
should have tried for St. Paul's anyway, seeing it
was the only spot of land amid thousands of miles
of water, and having landed the passengers and

what stores I could have saved, have trusted to
Providence— for much must he left to God in all
things — to bring us help. But I was not captain,
and that makes the difference ; I could not think as
captain. Daniel's heart was in his ship and cargo ;
he would wish to save her at all hazards ; and forlorn
as his hope was, as he himself implied, still
he would cling to even the ghost of a chance,
knowing well what the salving of the vessel and
her freight would mean to him who had not a
State hut a private firm of money-makers to
serve.

He left me with a kind of impatience to rejoin
Mr. Thornton, as if he was afraid I should begin
to argue with him. I was now so used to the
darkness that I could see with tolerable distinctness.
The maintain had been boarded and the maintop-gallant
sail set. I went to the weather rail to see
past the mainsail, and could just make out the
foremast with the foresail pulling at it. It looked
a big mutilated shadow. There being no more
head sail accounted for the mizzen topsail being
furled, and I wondered that even with the mainsail
she should steer easily ; but apparently, as the
wind then was, the canvas upon her left her well
under command of the helm. There were men at
work in the gloom forward ; you heard their voices,
but could not distinguish them. Lights gleamed
on the main and quarter-decks, and looking over

the rail, I spied groups of 'tween-deck and steerage-passengers
below restlessly flitting to and fro, or
cowering in dark blotches under the bulwarks and
near the cuddy front. The hoarse murmur of
their voices rose along with the crying of babies
and little children. But the panic among them
appeared to have passed, and it was likely enough
that the poor ignorant creatures were beginning
to believe that the danger was over, though they
would not trust themselves below yet. Cold enough
it must have been for the women and children.
Terror makes people cold, and when the wind is
raw too, then you get the most grievous element of
shipwreck — a degree of physical suffering which, if
protracted, makes drowning welcome. The blackness
on the sea was rendered startling by the
sparkle of the green fires in it and by the ghastly
(coming and fading of froth. The breeze was fresh,
but the ship hailed sluggishly, with a new note in
the surges which she threw from her, and a sickening
dip of the head in every plunge that gave you
the idea of her being giddy, and reeling in a fainting
manner as she rolled along over the ebony folds
which came swelling up against her lee bow. The
sky looked to be a slow procession of ponderous
shadows, thinning here and there, then thickening
up again, so that sometimes you could see the
main topgallant sail floating and swaying black in
the aii'ier gloom, then melting out as the darkness

drove over-with a fiercer sweep of the mist-like
rain in it.

*' Thompson," said I, approaching him, '' I
promised to bring you with me to the cuddy when
I returned. Nobody can hearten passengers Hke
the skipper."

"Oh, I'll go to them," said he; 'though God
knows I have little enough to tell them."

We walked to the companion in silence. Ere
shewing round to drop below I took notice of the
naked mizzen mast, the dim blotch of the man at
the wheel behind the binnacle, the liquid ebony of
the sea making one with the black heavens, the
wailing of the wind aloft, the rushing and seething
sound of foam, and, above all, the sluggish sickening
stoop of the stern when the swell drove under
the fore-foot and lifted the horrible dead-weight of
water that filled the fore compartment. Only a
sailor perhaps would have felt this; but never to me
was anything plainer in all my life.

There was a passionate expectation in the looks
of many of the passengers as Daniel entered the
cuddy, followed by me. They were all seated just
as I had left them, and I at once resumed my place
betwixt Florence and her aunt.

"What is the news, Mr. Seymour?" instantly
exclaimed the old lady, giving me my name very
easily.

Why, that we are still heading for Australia,

and that the ship's hold is free of water," I
replied.

'rare we still in great danger?" asked my
darling, as if she wished to think, dear heart, that
our peril was not so formidable as it had been.

"Be easy, sweet pet," I whispered. 'ewe are
in danger ; but it is not of a kind that need frighten
us."

Meanwhile, Thompson was mixing himself a sup
of brandy and water at the table. The old familiar
crimson of his face had faded away into a pale
dingy red ; care and grief were expressed in every
line of his hearty countenance ; nevertheless he
had forced a cheerful look as he entered the cuddy,
and preserved it as he stood bareheaded near a
swinging lamp, the light of which glittered in the
wet upon his cloth coat.

*' Can ye give us any hope of reaching Australia
in this ship, capt'n ? " asked Mrs. O'Brien.

I'll make her do her best to carry you there,"
he answered, smiling; "if she fails it will not be
my fault."

"If she fails, what shall we do?" cried Mr.
Thompson Tucker, breaking a long silence, and
speaking in an extraordinarily hollow note.

"Why, sir," replied Daniel, "we have six good
boats ; one of them, the long-boat, is pretty near
as big as the ship that Christopher Columbus
discovered America in ; two of the others are lifeboats,

the gig's a clipper, and the others fit to sail
round the world in."

'" Oh, but the idea of long exposure in an open
boat at sea is dreadful ! " cried Mrs. Marmaduke
Mortimer. "Ever since I was a child I have
always thought that the most frightful part of
shipwreck." Her husband wrapped his arm around
her.

It's not so bad as drowning, ma'am," said
Daniel. " But then the boats are our last resource.
We're not driven to them yet'' And
giving her a smile, he swigged off the contents of
his tumbler.

How many souls are there altogether in this
ship?" inquired Captain Jackson, asking the
question with his arms tightly folded, his head
down, and his eyes peering up under his brows.

"Ninety-five, sir; ship's company forty, fifteen
in the steerage, twenty-three in the 'tweendecks,
and seventeen of you ladies and gentlemen —
ninety-five."

How many will your long-boat hold ? "

Oh, if it comes to the boats," replied Daniel,
speaking with the utmost coolness, though there
was a deal of offensive imperiousness in the navy
man's manner, " the disposition of the people will
be twenty-six in the long-boat, fifteen in every
quarter-boat, and nine in the gig."

I hope in the name of God," exclaimed Captain

Jackson, " that no blunders or omissions will be
found out when it's too late. I speak with submission,
but I know what the merchant service is ;
tackles won't travel ; rowlocks and oars are
missing ; plugs are left out ; there are masts and
no sails to be found; rudders without yokes or
tillers. It is a question of life or death, and I
have a right in the name of my fellow-passengers
to demand, as one who has used the sea and knows
the life, that the precious time you, sir, and your
mates now possess, will be devoted to seeing everything
ready for an emergency."

"Everything is ready," replied Daniel, eyeing
him coldly. " You say you know the merchant
service, but you don't seem to be acquainted with
its etiquette. I will thank you not to teach me my
duty."

'' If you are speaking in the name of your fellow-passengers
to Captain Thompson," exclaimed Aunt
Damaris, as viciously as ever she had spoken at
any time during the voyage, " I beg that you will
omit me as one of those for whom you constitute
yourself spokesman, Captain Jackson."

Ladies are ignorant of the dangers of the sea,"
cried Captain Jackson. *•'! have a right as a
married man, with my wife in this ship, to urge
upon Captain Thompson the necessity of amply
providing for our safety."

"I am quite ready to listen to any proposals you

may have to make for providing for om* safety,"
said Daniel. " Will you tell me what you would
do if you had charge ? '"

The navy man did not answer.

At that moment Mr. Thornton called to the
skipper from the head of the companion steps.
Daniel, giving the ladies a little bow, went quietly
on deck. I listened, not liking that sudden
summons ; but the call was so quiet and Daniel's
departure so tranquil that the others appeared to
find nothing alarming in it.

"You have been a sailor, Mr. Seymour," said
Aunt Damaris, in a low voice to me, "and can
answer my question : Is Captain Thompson doing
all that he should to save the ship ? "

"All."

"Is there nothing omitted by him which he
ought to do? "

"Nothing that I can imagine," I replied; for
there was no good telling her that in my opinion
he ought to try to make St. Paul's.

She now fell to catechizing me ; asked me how
long I was at sea, what made me quit the life,
what my experiences were as a sailor. Suddenly,
whilst in the midst of answering the last question,
I stopped dead, hearing the ringing clank of the
pumps on the maindeck. At any other time that
sound would have passed unnoticed ; but now the
first note of it seemed to roll through the cuddy

like a bitter blast, striking a deadly chill into every
heart.

"Hark!" shouted Captain Jackson, sitting bolt
upright, and lifting his hand ; 'they have manned
the pumps ! "

"What does it mean?" shrieked Mrs. Armature
Mortimer.

God Almighty, we're sinking ! " howled Mr.
Thompson Tucker, and, springing to his feet, he
bolted like a madman to the companion ladder. Ina
breath, his behaviour created a panic. Seizing
his wife's hand. Captain Jackson rushed on deck
with her, and he was followed pell mell by Mrs.
O'Brien, the Joycess, the Mortimerss, and Mrs. and
Miss Grant. Florence's hand was on my arm and
her eyes riveted on my face. Her aunt had
jumped up, but I grasped her dress and detained
her.

*' For mercy's sake be calm, Miss Hawke," I
shouted ; " why, if it weren't for distraction of this
kind, shipwreck would seldom be the horrible thing
it's made. Those pumps are manned because they
have found out that water is running into the hold;
but you may be sure it runs slowly, or Captain
Thompson would give orders to have the boats
lowered. There is nothing to terrify one in a
leaky ship, so long as the pumps act and there are
people to keep them going. Sailors have declared
to me that for years at a stretch they have sailed

in nothing but leaky vessels. Until the bulkhead
gives way — and the chief mate says it can't do that
I shall consider the Stratford safe."

The poor old lady, trembling all over and directing
glances full of fright, now at the companion steps,
now at the skylight, now at the windows in the
cuddy front, resumed her place, murmuring, '' I am
sure you would not deceive me, Mr. Seymour, for
Florence's sake."

Nor for your own," I replied. " I have the
captain's permission to take you both under my
special charge. It's not a moment for boasting,
but lie knows I'm not ignorant of the sea, and he
would not concede to me such a trust as you two if
he was not well assured of my judgment."

Oh, Mr. Seymour, I am quite satisfied to be in
your charge — I am sure you are a clever sailor,"
exclaimed the old lady, passing her arm through
mine and hauling herself hard and tight against
me.

Hear that, Florence darling ! Miss Hawke,
listen ! " I cried, as the seamen who were working
the pumps broke into a chorus that came rattling
into the cuddy with a hurricane note. '' Drowning
men don't sing."

It was indeed inspiriting to hear their voices.

*'0h, Jack," said my pet, taking my hand, " I
am sure no harm can befall us with you at our
side."

I am so sorry' exclaimed Aunt Damaris,
holding on tight to my arm on the other hand,
*that I did not know who 5^011 were until this
evening. How could sour paj^a, Florence, talk tome
about Mr. Seymour as he did ? How easily he
is to be deceived ! Thank heaven you are with us,
Mr. Seymour. Oh, if we are spared to reach
Australia I shall have a long story to tell my
stubborn, prejudiced brother."

Just then the chief mate came into the cuddy.
As he approached the table to mix himself a glass
of grog, he said, 'you are wise to keep under
shelter, ladies. Was it the sound of the pumps
that sent the others flying? They've been heard
often enough during the voyage."

But water must be coming into the ship, sir,
or the crew would not be pumping," cried Aunt
Damaris.

'why, yes, water is coming into the ship,
certainly," answered the mate, holding up the glass
to the light to measure the quantity of brandy he
poured into it ; *' but it's being chucked out at the
same time, d'ye see, Miss Hawke, and so it don't
matter."

Where do you reckon it's coming from, Mr.
Thornton ? " I asked.

Why, through the bulkhead, I hope. Better
there than anywhere else, Mr. Egerton. Don't
want to think anything's been started abaft, you

know. If the ship's sound from where the bulkhead
begins to the sternest, and the bulkhead
don't cave in — and how's it going to do that with
fourteen hundred tons of cargo abaft to shore it
up? — why, the pumps may be able to keep us
watertight, so far as we are concerned, until we
reach Sydney."

There was a tell-tale compass fixed to a beam
just over the skipper's chair at the table ; the mate
stood near it as he conversed, and my eye going
from his face to it, I noticed something that caused
me to disengage myself from Aunt Damaris's arm
and get up. A glance at the compass sufficed ;
the course had been altered to east-south-east, and
the ship was lying as close to the wind as she
would sail.

The meaning of this was that Daniel was making
for St. Paul's Island.

I returned to the sofa, the mate looking at me
hard. "I hope," said Aunt Damaris, addressing
him, " that you will not trouble yourself to deceive
us."

'certainly not," he answered, quickly.

'eat all events this gentleman," she continued,
meaning me, " is not to be deceived. His name is
not Egerton, but Seymour ; he is an old sailor and
knows exactly how we are situated and what kind
of danger we are in."

I laughed and said, '' My old shipmate, the

captain, will tell you my story, Mr. Thornton. My
name is Seymour, and I had some years of service
in this employ." And pretending to have something
to say to him about myself which I did not
want the old lady to hear, I approached him and
whispered, "I see the course has been altered.
Does the captain mean to try for St. Paul's ? "

He nodded.

Is the leakage heavy ? "

He nodded again.

She will have been strained by the blow abaft
the bulkhead ? "

He whispered, " She is like a sieve to starboard
from on a line with the bathed to abaft the
fore chains. The utmost we can hope to do is to
keep) her afloat till daylight. But pray keep this
news to yourself. If the passengers get panic-stricken
it may spread to the crew." He emptied
his glass and returned on deck.

*what was he saying, Mr. Seymour?" cried
Aunt Damaris.

Why," I replied, " you see it was necessary
that I should round off what you told him about
me. But there is a freemasonry among sailors,
and we understand each other now."

I looked at Florence as I said this; but the
answer, clearly, did not satisfy her. There was
intense wistfulness in her beautiful eyes, and her
face had a marble-like gleam in the lamplight.

Yet lie said nothing; merely slipped her hand
into mine as I sat down between her and her aunt,
and for awhile we remained silent, listening to the
clanking and pulsing of the jumps on the main-deck,
the yearning moan of water washing and
gurgling along the lee bends, and the creaking of
bulkheads as the vessel rolled on the swell which
the shift of the helm had brought nearly abeam?
and pitched over the surges which were now striking
full against the mutilated starboard bow.

Chapter V.

THE NIGHT PASSES.

One after another the passengers returned to the
cuddy, urged, and, as I might tell by hearing his
voice, even commanded, by Captain Thompson
to do so. The last to arrive was Captain Jackson
and his wife. It was now eleven o'clock, and there
stood yet six or seven hours betwixt us and the
dawn of day. The pumps clanked incessantly
with a throbbing, thrashing sound, and there were
times when you would hear the water washing
about the decks as the ship rolled.

About this hour the steward came up out of the
steerage bearing a great can of rum in his hands,
and he told us it was for the crew and the
'tween deck passengers, many of whom had formed
themselves into gangs to relieve the seamen at the
pumps. The Joycess laid their children down upon
one of the couches and covered them with rugs ;
and there the little creatures remained, sleeping
soundly, as if the rhythmic beating of the pumps

YOL. III. K

was a song in tbeii* ears to hush them to slumber.
Squalls of rain occasionally drove over and lashed
the skylights fiercely, and Daniel as well as Mr.
Thornton and the second mate came below for
their oilskins ; but they kept clear of us, gliding
in and then hurrying out, quiet as shadows. Tome
the sitting in that cuddy and waiting was the
hardest part of that hard time. But it was not
only that I served Thompson by keeping below
and so by my example inducing others to remain
there, I felt that my presence gave Florence
courage. Come what might I would be at her
side to meet it. But I tell you, lads, it came hard
upon a man who had a sailor's instincts, who felt
the deck to be the proper and only place for him,
to be seated as it were in a church in that cuddy,
merging himself into the vessel, as it might be,
and thinking out of every roll and heave of her, as
she herself might if she had had intelligence for
such a job, so as to calculate how the water
deepened in her and what the pumps were doing ;
and all because I had no duties to discharge, no
people of my own cloth to talk to and confer with,
no arrangements to plan, nothing to carry my
thoughts away from the deadly gash in the starboard
bow and the sieve-like draining abaft the
bulkhead where it met the ship's side.

All the time my expectation was strained to the
fullest for a hurried summons of us on deck. And

this let me tell you I prayed with all my might and
main against. It was a cruelly black night, there
was wind enough to make the sea dangerous for
boat-lowering in a darkness that gave nothing to
the eyes and everything to the hands ; discipline
might fail at the last, and I might be separated
from my darling. I sat with my arm round her
waist and would press her to me when I thought
thus. No songs sounded at the pumps now; the
people ground at them as though each gang were
a bit of mechanism, and the harsh thumping of
them and the gushing of the water that sou would
hear in the brief intervals of silence when the ship
hung in the hollow or paused for a breath on the
summit of the swell, ere making her slanting rush,
would have put nightmares of fancy into any sailor-man's
brains who had nothing to do but to sit and
listen and think.

As the time wore on some of the passengers
dozed : Miss Grant fell asleep with her head on
her mother's shoulder, Mr. and Mrs. Marmaduke
Mortimer slumbered with their arms twined round
each other, the Joycess' nurse snored loudly; but
though the others closed their eyes you'd notice
first one and then another start up with a look of
fright, and then give a wild kind of sigh and sit
listening with heavy eyes to the clanking of the
pumps. Once, after exchanging a few words with
Aunt Damaris, whose spirits I did my utmost to

sustain, I looked at Florence and found her asleep
Tvith her head against my breast. She had
removed her hat and her hair sparkled in the
light as though a packet of gold-dust had been
hove over it, and the scent of it was as sweet as
eglantine. Lovelier she had never looked, with
the lashes of her closed eyes dark upon her delicate
cheeks, her red lips parted, her tender bosom
softly rising and. falling, her hands like snowflakes
placed on her lap. As I looked at her I thought
of Clifton, our first meeting, my early love-dream,,
her luxurious home, her faithfulness to me. Heart
alive ! think of me holding her, watching her, to
the dirge of the ringing pumps out in the blackness
on the maindeck, whilst the rain squalls
shrieked upon the skylights and every fresh heave
of the ship was more sluggish and sickly than the
last ! Turning, I saw Aunt Damaris with her
head inclined forward and her eyes upon my
darling.

Is she asleep, Mr. Seymour ? "

Yes, hush ! pray let her sleep."

Oh, what would her father feel if he knew what
we were undergoing ? " she exclaimed.

'' He parted with her lightly enough," I
whispered. '' He is an old traveller and knows
the danger of the sea. He could not wonder that
she should be in peril, for that is every one's risk
who sails the ocean ; but what would he say if he

knew whose arm supported her, if he knew whose
breast pillowed her ? "

He did not know you ; some one must have
prejudiced him against you," she said.

But I have a friend to plead for me if ever it
should come to that," said I, gently. " You see she
loves me — look at her ! " I continued, softly drawing
back that she might plainly behold the sleeping
girl : " you would not part us now. Miss Hawke ? "

Oh, Mr. Seymour, it is not the time to think
of such things ! Indeed I would not part you— I
liked you much as Mr. Egerton — you should have
been candid, sir. It has been a long deception and
you are both guilty ; but indeed I would not part
you. No. There is too much sincerity — it is too
late to object. May God preserve us ! " she
suddenly exclaimed

No more was said. The time passed, but I could
not tell the hours, for no bells were sounded, and
I durst not move to draw out my watch lest I
should awaken Florence. Aunt Damaris fell asleep,
and drooping against me favoured me with the
weight of her angular body. Once the notion
came into my head of old Hawke coming into the
cuddy and looking at us three, and the fancy of
the expression on his face set me smiling. But
merriment was not a thing to live long in that
cuddy. At any time, of all solemn sights in this
world the most impressive to my fancy is that of

a crowd of people slumbering in a ship. Enter an
emigrant vessel's 'tween decks, where the people lie
exposed in tiers of bunks, and listen to the deep)
respiration broken here and there by a cry, a
moan, a muttering of unintelligible words, and
then to the creaking and straining sounds breaking
through the muffled thunder of parting waters, the
stifled humming of wind droning out of the rigging
down the hatchways. It's a freak of imagination
no doubt, for what's more commonplace and
prosaic than such a sight ? Yet to me, the great
wonder of life and death and eternity is preached
in such a manner by it that the mightiest sermon
that ever abased the pride of the human heart and
melted it into bitter tears of contrition would be,
alongside of such a show, the feeblest of feeble
echoes as an appeal to the soul. But if one is to
be moved in a time of safety by a picture of a
sleeping crowd of human beings cradled upon that
visible symbol of eternity, the deep, shrouded in
the darkness of the great ocean night that makes
a phantom of the ship and spectres of all human'
life within her, what sort of impression would be
given one by the same sight in the hour of danger,
when instead of a cradle the liquid ebony of the-deep
grows slowly into a spacious grave upon
whose brink those sleepers there before you hang,
one with a smile, another brokenly whispering as
if to a friend, all of them placid as if their time of

immortality had come and they were typifying in
their living bodies under the black shadow of
death's outstretched wings the unconcern of the
spirit for all that concerns the flesh ?

Somewhat in this way ran my thoughts as I
turned my eyes from one to another of m}^ fellow-passengers,
most of whom were at this hour fast
asleep, the exceptions being Captain Jackson,
Mrs. O'Brien, and myself. All this while the
pumps were kept constantly' going, and four times
already had the steward passed through the cuddy
on his way to the maindeck, bearing cans of rum
for the labouring people there. Presently the navy
man, who had been on deck for a few minutes,
came below again, and seeing me wide awake,
exclaimed, " I doubt if they'll be able to keep her
afloat till daybreak. What a cursed dilemma to
(bag us into ? It serves me right. What the devil
business had I to go to Australia in a sailing ship ! "

His loud voice woke up everybody but the
children ; and painful it was to witness the general
rush of consternation into the faces of the people
as they opened their eyes and heard the clanking
of the pumps.

"Oh, Jack!" cried Florence, "have I been
asleep ? You have had to support me ! How
thoughtless I am ! " And Aunt Damaris exclaimed,
" Oh, Mr. Seymour, I hope I have not
tired you. How good you are to let me rest ! "

'pity that naval man refuses to learn how to
whisper," said I. "However, since you are both
awake, I'll just step on deck and see what's
doing."

You would have known the wind was failing by
its coming no harder than it did before, though
now the ship was looking right up into it ;
the mizzen topsail and spanker had been set —
quietly enough; for no note of that job had
reached me in the cuddy — and the ship surged
slowly forwards, making a great sputtering to
windward with her crushed bow, and sliding off
the swells as if she felt that her time was come,
and that she debated at every heave whether she
should trouble herself to lift to the next fold. It
was about seven bells in the middle watch, and
there remained about two and a half hours of
darkness. The night was a tremendous shadow,
though sometimes the wind as it came along would
blow away into the murkiness over the port quarter
till it seemed to lighten it, and you looked for a
star : but if ever the eye was caught by the
glimmer of light that night, it was no more at
the best than the phosphoric radiance gleaming
wet in the black curl of a swell or boiling ina
sort of smoke midst the churned-up foam that
rushed away under the counter. The decks were
streaming from a smother of rain that had lately
blown past; the breeze had sharpened its edge of

cold in these small hours, and it went to my heart
like the blow of a knife to look away into the
black sea and think of Florence in an open boat
there, with nothing betwixt her and the rain, and
no shelter from the chill wind moaning out of the
black hollows over the low gunwale. But it
wouldn't do to give way to thoughts of that kind,
so I went along the lee side of the poop to look at
what they were about on the maindeck ; and therein
the lantern-light saw the gangs slaving at the
pumps, and a crowd of people blackening the deck
between the poop-ladders. There was a kind of
fever in the sound those pumps made ; it was like
the ship's heart beating madly ; they were the old-fashioned
break-pumps, and in the dim glimmer
you spied the toiling figures stooping and rising,
stooping and rising, the change of posture happening
with a sort of frenzy, whilst the water gushed
furiously on to the decks and went sobbing away
out of the scupper-holes in the darkness over the
side. The steward (as I behoved) was serving out
rum to a gang of men gathered around the
quarter-deck capstan ; the cuddy light shone
faintly there, and you noticed the people like
shadows tossing the tots of fiery liquor down their
throats and stepping back into the gloom to make
way for the others.

'' Who's that to leeward there ? " called out Mr.
Thornton from the weather side of the poop. I

answered and approached him. Then Daniel, who
stood near the foremast quarter-boat, joined us.

'' The captain has told me your story, Mr. Sey-mour,"
said the chief mate. 'you must let me
shake a brother sailor by the hand. I never
could have guessed from your behaviour that you
had been one of us, and of this employ too, in your
time." We shook hands. " Sorry indeed that your
grand romance should have a chapter of shipwreck
in it."

May we all be spared to finish the story, Mr.
Thornton! "

'why, do you doubt it. Jack?" exclaimed
Daniel. " Mr. Thornton told me you had noticed
the shift of course. I'm trying for your island —
it's our only chance now."

"The bulkhead's staunch enough, I believe; if
not, the pumps could have kept its draining
under," said the chief mate; "the mischief is
abaft ; the stem of that cursed cowardly steamer-has
shaken the old fabric open."

What water have you ? "

"Four and a half feet was the last report,"
answered Daniel, speaking quietly. "I'm only
waiting till daylight to get away."

The whole business of the boats is ordered in
your mind, I suppose ? " I asked.

Oh, yes ! I'll give you the programme. First,
you will have charge of the gig ; you can have the

boatswain and five of the crew, the two ladies,
yourself — nine ; that's her freight. She's a good
boat and sails nicely."

**I am quite satisfied."

"I shall take command of the long-boat, with
five seamen and twenty-one passengers of all kinds.
Mr. Thornton and the second mate will have the-two
port quarter-boats, numbering thirty souls,
and the third mate and carpenter the starboard
quarter-boats, numbering thirty souls."

'' How do you reckon St. Paul's bears, Daniel? "

"About south by west now."

It'll bear south at daybreak," said the chief
mate.

I suppose the boats are all ready — there'll be
nothing missing ? " said I.

*' Oh, they've been seen to," answered Daniel.
*' Have you been bitten by that impudent naval
officer that you ask such a question ? You heard
him about the side-lights ? He'd criminate me if
he could. But how many sailing ships show their
lights in the midst of such an ocean as this ? " *
and he then told me how the disaster had happened.
The second mate was in charge ; there were two
hands stationed on the look-out forward. Nothing
was seen of the steamer, if steamer she were, until

Few, indeed, in those days, and few enough in these, though
the necessity has increased a hundredfold since then, owing to
the number of steamships now afloat.

she was close aboard, and then her lumping
shape seemed to jump out of the darkness at
once. The Stratford's helm was put hard up,
the second mate thinking that she would cross
our bows ; simultaneously, the helm of the
steamer was starboarded, and like a flash her
stem took the ship's starboard bow close to the
bathed, shewing the vessel round and heeling
her over, as I have described. The fellows
forward sprang off the forecastle to get clear from
the falling spars; for some minutes all was wild
confusion ; and when the steamer was looked for,
she had utterly vanished. " I had hoped to keep
her afloat," said Daniel, always talking quietly,
like a man who had made up his mind and saw
the idleness of worry and any further trouble;
*' but as that can't be, why, we must turn to and
save our lives, Jack; and that I trust may be
done."

What distance do you make St. Paul's ? "

'' It'll be about seventy-five or eighty miles when
we start for it."

And the weather ? "

*' There's an improvement in the glass ; a small
one, it's true, but enough to prove that there's
nothing worse behind this."

'well, God preserve us all!" said I. ''Foui*
and a half feet of water in the hold in spite of that
fierce pumping, eh ? " And with a kind of shiver,

for the wind, when it comes raw, will blow shrill
into your marrow when you have had no sleep
for a night, I went below, just in time to escape
a heavy shower that rattled upon the deck like a
hundred buckets of snipe-shot capsized from aloft.
Well, what's the news ? " said Captain Jackson
in his noisy voice, as I sat down in my old place,
whilst Florence put her arm through mine, as if
she would keep me there now that she had me
again. I felt that it would be cruel and useless
to conceal the truth ; so I answered: " The water
gains slowly upon the ship in spite of the pumps,
and the captain proposes to leave her at daybreak."
Mr. Thompson Tucker dashed his hands to his
face, and groaned and writhed like a man in
torment. A new shade of pallor came into every
countenance, and Aunt Damaris said, in a choking
voice, " What is to become of us, then ? "

Why," I replied, cheerfully, '' we shall take
refuge in St. Paul's Island, where we are bound ina
very short time to make our existence known to
a passing vessel who will convey us to the Cape
or to Australia."

** Oh, Marmaduke, what a frightful position for
us to be in ! " shrieked the young wife, flinging
both her arms around her husband's neck and
staring wildly round at us.

*' No, no, don't call it frightful, Mrs. Mortimer""
said I ; " think how much worse it might be. We

have good boats ; the weather is full of promise ;
we have but a short distance to sail ; and our
rescue cannot be long delayed."

But I could not comfort them. Captain Jackson
roared out the wildest abuse of the ship, her
captain and officers, damned them as unprofessional
rascals who had brought all hands into
the worst mess that had ever befallen a vessel's
company, and swore if they were saved he'd have
them tried at the Old Bailey. Mrs. and Miss Grant
moaned and wept together, Mr. and Mrs. Armature
Mortimer sobbed in each other's arms, the
children woke up and cried bitterly, utterly distracting
their unhappy parents, the nurse grew
hysterical and cried out wildly for her mother, and
Mrs. Jackson crouched down on the sofa, with her
face buried in her arm. The most heroical of them
was Mrs. O'Brien. She cried to Mr. Thompson
Tucker, "We're not to be saved by weeping. Let's
be manly for God's sake, or what's we do? Ye
all hear what Mr. Egerton says — that it might be
worse. Let's think of that, and, instead of groaning
and cursing like Captain Jackson yonder, who,
as a sailor, should be helping our spirits instead
of terrifying us with his words, put our trust in
Captain Thompson and his officers and ask God
to watch over us."

Bravely spoken, Mrs. O'Brien! " I cried.

We shall have to leave every stick we own

behind us — damn them," roared Captain Jackson,
shaking his fist at the skylight.

Florence, leaning on my arm, said nothing ;
Aunt Damaris on the other side sat like a stone
statue, ^^'ith her mouth moving as though she
talked to herself. When the poor people had
calmed down a hit, I advised them to make use of
the short time that remained by putting themselves
into their warmest clothes and pocketing
such valuables as were of a portable kind, but I
recommended them not to hamper themselves too
much in that way, " because," said I, 'the deeper
you sink the boats the worse off you'll be; and
then again, I have heard of a man trying to get
into a boat, dropping overboard and going down
like a stone, because he had crammed eighty
pounds of gold into his shirt ; whereas," said I,
''if it hadn't been for that dead weight the others
could have fished him out and saved his life."
Most of them acted on my advice, hastily going
into their cabins. I then prevailed upon Aunt
Damaris and my darling to go and clothe themselves
in their warmest attire; and whilst they
were at that job, I went to my cabin and shifted
my togs, letting on warm socks, half-boots, pilot-cloth
trousers and jacket, a flannel shirt, and the
like ; for, thought I, if the wind holds to the southward,
and we have to pass tomorrow night in an
open boat, we shall need all the warmth that

clothes can give us. I also stowed a small compass
away in my pocket, a burning glass, some tin boxes
of wax matches, and my pistol, along with a couple
of handsful of cartridges. For awhile I stood considering
what other things I might need, and then
my eyes settling upon the box of clothes I should
be leaving to go to the bottom, I fell into a short
reverie, thinking of Morecombe, what he would do,
how he would behave were he with us, what my
love for Florence had brought us both to, — for to
be sure, I had been the innocent cause of her
making this voyage, as she had been the cause of
my coming ; of what Aunt Damaris had said
about it being too late to think of separating my
darling and me now, and so on ; pondering over
a world of things in a short time as a man can,
almost as fast as he dreams ; till the noise of the
pumps and some order bawled on the poop nearly
over my head broke into my reverie and recalled
me to myself.

The passengers had been wonderfully expeditious ;
they did not love shutting themselves up in their
cabins now, even for five minutes ; and when I
re-entered the cuddy I found them all there, and
Florence in the act of quitting her cabin. She had
arrayed herself in a warm, tm-ban- shaped hat, a
jacket lined with fur, a dress of good thick material,
and she carried a waterproof cloak over her arm.
Aunt Damaris was swathed in the same remarkable

cloak she wore in the English Channel, the
hood of it lying on her back ; what she wore under
it I couldn't tell, but no doubt she looked after
herself. When I next pulled out my watch it was
five o'clock. The hours, one by one, had gone by
quickly enough ; yet when I came to look back
upon them all, they appeared to have made a
fearfully long night. I knew by the erectness
of the hull in the water, that there was now but
little weight in the wind ; but I also knew b}" the
inexpressible character of her rolling that she
must be channels deep by this time, and that the
order for us to leave her could not be much longer
delayed. However, I was mightily comforted by
feeling that there would be comparatively smooth
water. All the time the pumps were kept going.
It was like listening to the thumping and singing
of engines. It made one wonder that human beings
could maintain such labour as that ; but then we
not only had a large crew, but gangs of 'tweendeck
and steerage passengers had volunteered for the
work, so that there was rest enough between whiles
for the people.

Shortly after five, the steward and a couple of
his mates arrived with hot coffee, biscuit, cold fowl,
ham, and such matters; and at the same time
Daniel came down the companion ladder. He
looked terribly haggard and worn, yet glanced
round him with a brave smile, and not knowing,

VOL. HI. L

maybe, that I had told them that we were to leave
the ship at dawn, he said to the passengers : "This
will be our last breakfast aboard the Stratford.
"We have done our best to keep her afloat, but the
steamer has knocked her into a basket, and she's
bound to sink. The utmost we could do was to
keep her on the surface till daylight enabled us
to go to work to leave her quietly and without risk.
The dawned be here very soon now; ladies and
gentlemen, pray fall to — eat heartily. I assure
you there is no danger ; the sea is smooth, there
is promise of a fine day, we shall find a refuge on
St. Paul's Island, and the rest will be but a trifling
tax on our patience."

The stewards seized the coffee-pots and went
round the table filling the cups. The passengers
were too wearied, too exhausted, they had talked
over their situation too freely, to bother the captain
with any questions. You'd notice that none of
them would seat themselves at the table ; and ta
an extent I could understand their superstitious
recoil from doing at such a time as this the
same as they had done when all was safe, and the
brave ship was bearing them buoyantly over the
seas. There are moments when one shrinks from
custom, and you saw that shrinking now, as one
or the other would go to the table and then return
to his old place — the i^lace he had occupied all
night, — with a plate, and eat mechanically. After

great persuasion I induced Florence and her aunt
to drink some hot coffee, and to take a bite. For
myself, I made a good meal ; I fancied I might
come to feel the need of it presently, and I was
resolved, if ever I was forced to give in, it should
not be for the want of looking ahead and calculating
that a very great deal might happen. Daniel also
stowed a good meal away, but eat very hurriedly,
and went on deck to send Mr. Thornton and the
second mate below, before I had got half-way
through the plateful I was pitching into. I did
not notice how the others fared, giving all my
attention to my darling and her aunt ; but Mr.
Thornton had not been live minutes below when,
glancing at the skylight, I saw the grey dimness of
da^Ti upon the glass ; at the same moment the
weary champing of the pumps ceased, and a loud
voice shouted down the companion, '^ On deck,
please, all the passengers ! "

Chapter VI.

THE LAST OF THE " Stratford."

This was the cry I for one had been waiting the
whole blessed night for, and when it came rattling
down the hatchway in the hoarse, coarse voice of
the third mate, there was a scramble among the
most of us ; up bundled Captain Jackson and his
wife, the Mortimerss, the Joycess with their children,
snatched in their arms and the nurse's, and Mr.
Thompson Tucker. Mr. Thornton took charge of
Mrs. O'Brien, and the second mate of Mrs. and Miss
Grant. Then followed Aunt Damaris, Florence,
and I ; and the doctor formed the tail of the
terrified procession.

They had brought the maintopsail to the mast,
and the ship was hove'to. Over the port bow you
saw the dawn sifting through the night-gloom like
a light straining through oiled paper ; it brightened
fast; the line of the horizon was gradually hove
up as the gathering irradiation ran the coil of it
into the western darkness, till the whole surface

of the deep) was a dull, dimly gleaming grey, Avitli
the pale heavens rising off its far stretches and
soaring into a steely tint over the masthead, where
the morning light ^\as shooting up to the zenith.
There was wind enough to keep the canvas steady
and no more ; the swell of the sea had moderated,
and there was scarce a glimpse of foam upon the
ashen undulations; and this was one reason,
maybe, why that ocean had the most desolate look
that I ever beheld in the deep, as it coldly heaved
under the bleak breaking of light in the east, and
made a line like the sweep of a feather dipped
in India-ink against the confused gloom of the sky
in the west.

One could see the ship plain enough now, and
it was like a shock to mark how deep she lay. The
water seemed flush with her covering board, and
every roll of her on the swell that came running
out of the north-east hove over the rail of her topgallant
bulwarks to the surface of the sea ; so that
on the maindeck sou might have washed your
face in the ocean by putting jour head at such
moments over the side. But I had no leisure for
more than a swift glance round. They had got
tackles on the ^^ardarms and were hoisting the
long-boat out of the chocks to launch her. Hands
were stationed at the falls of the quarter-boats and
gig, and I saw that Daniel meant to do everything
quickly and at once. He sung out to us to be

good enough to keep together until the boats were
alongside, calling out to me, " Get the ladies into
the gig when she's brought to the gangway,
Seymour, then take your place in her, and the
men who belong to your boat will join you."
I looked aft, and cried to the fellows who were
stationed at the gig, 'which gangway will you
bring her to ? " " Port gangway, sir," one of them
answered. The order was then given to lower
away the boats ; they dropped into the water
simultaneously, the men in them nimbly hooking
the fall blocks ; and seizing Florence and Aunt
Damaris each by the arm, I called out, '' Shall
we go on the maindeck, captain?" "Ay," he
answered; and forthwith the three of us went down
the poop ladder to the port gangway.

There was no confusion. They had got the
long-boat over quickly and quietly, and were hauling
her to the starboard gangway — both gangways
being unshipped — at which stood half a dozen of
the crew of the Strathmore^ to prevent any man
from entering the boat before the women who were
to go in her had taken their places. I took notice,
even in that time of hurry and pre-occupation, of
the pale and worn appearance of the poor "tween-deck
people, both men and women, most of whom
had stuck to the deck all night in their fear of the
ship foundering if they went below ; and it would
have moved any man's heart to have seen them

there in their poverty, about to lose all that they
had in the world — God knows little enough, yet
precious to them as the fi-its of pinching and
self-denying ashore, to enable them to make this
voyage : mothers hugging their infants, fathers
standing in the midst of then* little families, the
brightening dawn striking cold and grey down
betwixt the sails upon then gaunt, sorrowful,
terrified faces. Oh, my lads, shipwreck is a
fearful thing : how fearful only those who have
undergone it know.

A couple of hands brought the gig to the gangway,
two being in her. Mr. Thornton, fi-om the
break of the poop, sung out, " Be as sharp as
you can, Mr. Seymour : we want that gangway*' I
took Florence by the arm, and, the men in the boat
standing by to receive her, I waited till the swell
brought the gig close, and then fairly lifted her
into the hands of the two seamen. "Now, Miss
Hawke," cried I. She hung back with a whiteface,
and a kind of swooning roll of the eyes. But
you only needed to feel the ship under your feet
to understand that every moment was precious.
'have no fear," said I. "'"Why, we must be
quick or the vessel will founder whilst you hesitate.
Here, my lad, take the lady's arm ; " and helped
by the man I had called to, I raised the poor old
lady clean off her feet, and watching for a chance,
bundled her carefully into the arms of the men in

the boat. " Now then, boys, in with you ! " I
shouted to the two sailors who had brought the
boat around. " Where's the bo'sun ? Shilling ! "
I bawled, '' where's Shilling ? "

"Here, sir," he shouted, tumbling out of the
crowd on the other side of the deck.

You're to go along with me. Shilling, I think ? "
said I.

'eyes, sir."

Then jump) in."

He did so, I followed, the fellow in the bow
shoved off, and we backed the boat to a distance of
about ten times her length from the ship's side,
and there waited.

The daylight was now broad. The sun had
risen, but one saw nothing of him behind the pale
brownish stretch of vapour that lay upon the face
of the east, and that filled out into light blue sky
overhead and in the west, streaked with clouds
which shone white in the beams striking up at
them from the hidden luminary. The languid
breeze had gone round into the west, and as the
breath of it came along, warm enough, it seemed
to change the grey of the ocean into blue. There
was every promise of a fine day ; but the threat of
a calm came to qualify the spirits it put into a
man. Unless a steamer hove in sight we had no
chance of being picked up if the wind died, nor
could we make any progress towards the island

^vith.tbe toil of rowing. I stood up to search the
sea-line, running my eyes along it inch by inch,
without seeing anything till I came to the Strath-more,
the sight of which — for I had not looked at
her before — was a real shock, and I sat down with
my eyes upon her. Her port bow was towards us,
and of her mutilated side, therefore, I could see
nothing. But she was a complete wreck forward ;
nothing left but her bowsprit and foremast, the
topmast and topsail yard with its sail Mng across
the forecastle, and the topgallant mast clean gone.
The picture that she made, with the boats alongside
of her and the people tumbling into them, was
a sight fit to last a man a lifetime. Her painted
ports were out of sight under water; her main-deck
bulwarks were a dark line, with the poop and
topgallant forecastle at either end rising up, and
preserving still something of the old aspect of the
hull. She stood like a half-tide rock there, barely
yielding to the light swell that ran its sparkling
volumes along her sides. Oh, it was a pity,
it was a pity I to look at those two stately masts
which still stood, at the symmetrical black lines
of the shrouds and backstairs, at the white canvas
of the topsails, foresail, and topgallant sail, at the
suited sails lying like snow on the black royal
yards, at the stern windows catching the blue
gleam off the sea that washed up close under them,
at the dull tremor of lifiht in the breastwork.

the tremble of radiance coming you knew not
from where in the bright yellow masts — I say to
look at that sight and watch the smoke breaking
from the galley chimney, and hear the pigs squeaking
and the cocks crowing, and the voices of the
mates urging the people to make haste, and then
reflect that that gallant fabric, crowded with
valuable freight, that that brave vessel with its
sumptuous cabins in which one had lived and slept
for weeks whilst the noble keel was furrowing the
waters of three mighty oceans, would shortly vanish
and be no more than one of those clouds floating
over us when the sun had sucked up its vapour,
caused one's very heart to shrink in one's breast.

With a couple of oars over, the gig kept her
position, and we in her sat looking at the ship and
the people leaving her, never speaking. Florence
and her aunt occupied the stern sheets on either
hand of me. The men crouched upon the thwarts,
and it was strange to see how identical was the
gaze they fastened upon the sinking vessel.
Presently we heard a muffled cheer given on the
starboard side of the ship, and the boatswain said
The captain's have left her, sir — he'll have been
the last man." It was strange that such a shout
as this should have been sent up, but somehow
Englishmen have a habit of cheering, and most
often they don't know why they do it. In a few
minutes we saw the long-boat backing clear of the

vessel's stern ; she was followed by the other boats,
and they came to a halt in a cluster upon the sea
about fifty fathoms clear of the ship. We rowed
towards them, and when we were close Daniel
stood up in the long boat.

"Seymour," he called out, 'we'll wait to seethe
last of her. Ladies, you must keep up your
courage. You are in charge of a sailor."

Florence smiled wanly ; x\unt Damaris hid her
face in her hands.

'that'll be the true course, Captain Thompson
? " I called, giving him his title before all those
people.

"Due south," he answered. "The distance, as
close as I can reckon it, will be within eighty miles.
You'll be able to guess your rate of sailing,
Sey-mour, and if we should part company, haul to
the forrard if you don't sight the island after
having made that distance, for you may be sure
you've missed it."

I waved my hand to signify assent.

I'll lead the way," he continued, " and you and
the others will stick to my skirts whilst wind and
weather permit. Ill hoist two lanterns at my
masthead, which will tell you where I am when it
comes dark. Every boat will show a light at her
masthead."

I inquired if we had the means of showing a
light, and was told b}' one of the men that there

was a small lantern in the boys, along with a can
of oil.

'keep a bright lookout for ships, Seymour,"
cried Daniel, and having no further instructions to
give me, he sat down.

I glanced from one living freight to another ;
the boats looked crowded, especially the long-boat,
yet they were not loaded above their capacity.
The excitement of leaving the ship was too fresh,
perhaps, to suffer the influence of those deep and
wild and passionate feelings which come to people
in our situation to make itself felt. I thought I
could see an expression of mingled bewilderment
and awe in most of the faces which gleamed over
the low gunwales, as if stupefaction were slowly
yielding to thrilling wonderment ; as though, as
the ship sunk her sides deeper and deeper, she left
room in the souls of the watchers for the reception
of the fearful immensity of the ocean in whose
heart they were floating. The murmur of people
talking came from every boat, with the wailing of a
baby, or the call of one member of a divided family
to another. You'd notice the tendency of the seato
separate us ; how subtly it would sneak one
boat's head ofl' round to west and another to north,
meantime insensibly widening the intervals till
their crews threw over a couple of oars to bring
the little craft into a cluster afresh.

'' Why are we waiting here ? " asked Aunt

Damaris, in a voice that seemed to give her pain
to use.

The captain giants to see the last of his ship,"
I replied. '' The delay is of little consequence.
The presence of that ship breaks the fall of those
poor ignorant people there from the security of
her decks to their present situation ; they will be
fitter to bear the loneliness of the sea by the time
she has gone, than had she vanished immediately
after they had entered the boats."

'• Can I say a word to you, sir?" exclaimed the
boatswain, who was sitting with his back against
the mast which the men had stepped whilst she
was being hauled to the gangway.

Certainly" I replied; and perceiving that he
wanted me to go to him, I got up. " What is it.
Shilling ? "

'' Only this, sir," said he, in a hoarse whisper ;
*ram I to go on a-callin' of 3'e Egerton, or is
Seymour now the word ? I heard the captain call
you Se^^mour."

Oh ! " said I, " you may call me Seymour now.
The skipper blowed the gaff last night in his
worry, and the murder's out, Jim."

freight," said he, 'rand Seymour it is." On
which I returned to my place.

Scarcely a quarter of an hour had passed since
we left the ship when she foundered. x\ll that
while it was wonderful to me that she should float,

for she was so deep that the line of the water was
above the channel dead-eyes, and little more was
visible of her than her forecastle rail and her poop,
slightly rising towards the taffrail. We in the
gig were all looking at her when one of the men
sung out, " There she goes ! " and she went down
head foremost slowly, lifting her counter well out
as if she were pitching over a heavy surge ; the
sun at that instant came swelling out of the misty
canopy in the east in a burst of glorious radiance,
sailing fair into a space of blue which it made a
dazzling light of; the blinding beam struck deep
into the ocean, and rolled up to the ship on the
brows of the swells in a fan shaped wake of silver
glory : and amid this wonder of liquid effulgence
the ship went down. You saw the rush of the
expelled air from her hold setting the water boiling
as her decks sank into it. She buried her bowsprit,
but after the hull had vanished with a flash of
sunlight off her wet stern windows and counter, she
righted, and her masts stood up true and defiant,
and then the maintopsail was sucked down, and
the topgallant sail followed, and then the royal
yard, and for the space of a breath you saw the
red vane at the royal masthead flickering like a
flame in the slant of a swell that was shadowed by
its brow, and when next you looked there was the
great ocean heaving into the heavens, and nothing
to break the frightful continuity of the liquid girdle

but the staring ^vLite sliuulclers of clouds luw doit
in the north, and the greyness in the east thinning
out into blue sky under the sun.

Florence shivered, and I whispered a few words
of encouragement to her. When the ship was gone
they raised a faint cheer in the quarter-boat in charge
of the second mate, but all the others witnessed the
departure in dead silence. The long-boat then
hoisted her sail, the rest did the same, and placing
the small compass I had found in the boat at my
feet, I gathered up the yolk-lines whilst the boatswain
hauled the sheet of the little lugsail aft, and
headed the gig due south in the wake of the longboat.
The breeze was about south-west by west
very light, little more than a draught indeed. I
thought, by the appearance of the swell, that it
would haul to the eastward later on, and perhaps
come on a fresh wind. Our boat was a six-oared
gig, long and narrow; I forget her exact dimensions,
but stem and stern she'd fairly cover the
whole length of the Stratford's taffrail when she
hung at the stern davits. She was, indeed, the
captain's boat, used by him for going ashore when
at anchor in port, and was a handsome little craft,
fitted with brass rowlocks, gratings, and so forth ;
and a stout short mast that stepped very securely,
and a brand new bit of a lugsail. There had been
stowed in her bows two breakers or small water-casks,
and under the stern-sheets (for there were

no lockers) several tins of preserved meat with a
knife for opening them, some tin cases of biscuit
such as was eaten in the cuddy, a small bag of
ship's bread, several bottles of wine and spirits, a
large piece of cooked salt beef rolled up in canvas,
and a few other eatables the nature of which I
forget. Used moderately, I reckoned that for nine
of us there were provisions and water sufficient to
last us about a week.

We had not been sailing ten minutes when I
found the gig the fastest of the boats. The two
lifeboats lagged most; the long-boat, though a
clumsy round-bowed craft, with the beam of a
Dutchman, held her own with the other two
quarter-boats; but the gig slipped through the
water so fast that, to keep astern of the longboat,
we had again and again to slacken away
the sheet. To encourage one another, they tried
some singing in the long-boat ; but it would not
do ; only a few fell into it, and the sound of their
voices coming along to us over the swell, I thought
that a more sorrowful thing had never met my ears,
and was glad when they stopped the sad attempt.
There was not enough heave in the water to throw
us out of sight of one another in the hollows whilst
we kept together, and one could always see the
swarm of white faces glimmering over the gun-whales
with the white sky beyond, and the ocean-line
rising and falling past them as the boats rose

and sank. Now and again you'd notice a figure
stand up, shading his eyes, and peer slowly round.
Sailor man as I had been in my day, it made me
recoil at times to glance away from those boats into
the infinite distance in the west and north, and
then gaze over the side at the mighty surface in
which I could have immersed m}^ arm to its elbow
without leaning. It's the nearness of the sea in an
open boat that gives one the first great shock, after
quitting the height of a ship's deck. You get used
to it in time, but it takes time ; and whilst the
thing is fresh, I tell you it will put terrible
feelings into some men's minds. "Why, when you
look over and see the gleam of your face within
hand-reach, it's like peering into your grave and
seeing yom' own body there; and down past the
reflection goes your fancy, sucked deep by the spell
of the blue profundity, down through the clear
obscure of it that is like molten glass, till the
imagination touching the bottom of that mighty
universe, and blindly groping there among the
black and blind miracles of vegetation, and valleys,
and mountains, and shapeless monsters, and
sightless leviathans, leaps back in affright to your
heart, making it cold as stone, and with a wild
shudder you look up at the sun and pray to
Almighty God for succour.

When do you think we shall reach the island,
Mr. Seymour ?" asked Aunt Damaris.

VOL. ni. M

Why, by this time tomorrow I hope eye shall
all be ashore on it," I replied ; " unless, which will
be better, we are picked up by a passing vessel."

*' There ought to be no lack of them hereabouts,
sir," exclaimed Shilling.

We're a trifle too far to the southward perhaps,"
I replied : '' though I don't know, it is not unusual
for vessels bound to the eastward to sight St. Paul's,
and we're north of that island, at present, anyway."

'' It'll be a bitter long night," said Florence, with
a frightened look around the sea.

"Keep up, keep up, my sweet one," I mm-cured
in a low voice, bending towards her. " Before the
night comes, the whole day must pass, and the long
hours of sunlight may bring us succour." And I
fell to caressing her hand.

Aunt Damaris threw back the hood of her cape,
for the sunshine was gushing down warmly, and
the temperature of the gentle breeze was that of
a woman's breath. She had dropped that old
pecking motion of her lean face I wrote of a while
gone. Shipwreck had made another character of
her indeed ; she was as subdued and tearful as she
had before been acid and aggressive. Whenever
she addressed me, her manner was what you would
expect to find in a person who was under a deep
obligation to another, and who never could speak
to him without thinking of it ; I scarcely know
how else to illustrate her anxiety to show that she

liked me, that she pinned her faith to me, that, in
short, she counted ujDon my saving her life. Whenever
I would turn from Florence to her, after
speaking softly with my darling, I'd get a look
from the old lady that was as good as saying I had
won her niece, she was not going to interfere, I had
nothing to fear from her, all that I had to do now
was to save their lives, and then go and get married.
I could not be mistaken ; there's more meaning ina
single look than in a power of words very often :
and Aunt Damaris's thoughts couldn't have been
plainer to me had she turned to and spent an hour
in talking them out to me. The worry, the fear,
the long sleeplessness of the past night had done
her appearance no good. She was as yellow as a
guinea ; her eyes hazy ; the hollows under them a
dark violet ; her cheekbones stood up high and
bare ; and when she looked at me full, it was like
a face in a spoon that reflects the nose forward and
stretches the cheeks sharp back to the ears. There
was no such change as this in my love. Weary
and heavy-eyed somewhat she was indeed ; and
her lips' rosiness had faded just a little, and the
wonderful white of her beautiful throat seemed to
have overspread her face ; but her loveliness was
upon her then as it always had been, and so far
as my impassioned eyes could see, the only change
that oui' trouble had worked in her was what you'd
notice in a lily that has drooped ; there was no

loss of sweetness, but just a languid leaning in
the exquisite white flower. A grace in her you
may reckon it was in my sight, seeing that it was /,
mates, whom she had chosen to support her, and
cherish her, and preserve her.

Preserve her ! I felt the mighty obligation in a
manner that was fit to crush my spirits, when I
glanced from the appealing loveliness of her eyes
to the measureless blue liquid waste along which
we were creeping. I could not flatter myself that
if the night came down dark with wind, that we
should be able to keep the other boats company ;
and lightly as Daniel had sung out to me to head
to the forrard if, after reckoning we had traversed
eighty miles of water, I should find no island
heaving in view, it was a fearful thing to contemplate
missing that speck of a rock, and having to
cruise about for it without sextant or chart, in a
small open boat in the midst of the hugest of all
the oceans, if you calculate that waste of water to
start from the South American cape and to end
where Austraha begins. Such thoughts as these
would set me looking at the men. There were six
of them, counting Shilling, and they were all
Englishmen, which, to be sure, was a good job.
Two of the five were ordinary seamen, youngish,
burned-up fellows, and the other three hairy, able-bodied
chaps; all of them variously dressed; one
in blue jersey and coat, another in a red shirt, the

bo'sun in a sleeved waistcoat, a fourth in sea-boots
and a yellow sou'wester, and so on. Every man of
them had a quid of tobacco in his cheek, and now
and again one or another would spit over the side,
and watch the yellow saliva froth go astern just to
guess our speed, and then give a slow twist round
on the thwart to have a look at the other boats, and
a squint at the weather to windward. At the first
set-off I'd find them peering at me critically, as if
it bothered them to understand how a passenger
had been put in charge of a boat over the bo' sun's
head. I took note of this at the time, but it was
not until we had been sailing along for an hour,
that it came into my head to speak to them.

''My lads," said I, "has the bo'sun told you
who I am?"

No, they know nothing about it, Mr. Seymour,"
responded the bo'sun.

Well," said I, "as your lives have been committed
to my charge, it's proper I should tell you
that I knocked off the sea three years ago, when I
was second mate, with a chief mate's certificate in
my pocket, after having had seven and a half
years of it in the employ to which the Stmthmore
belonged."

That's quite right, mates," exclaimed the
bo'sun. "Ye're in good hands. Mr. Seymour
and I are old shipmates. It took me aback to
see him aboard the Stratford in the river. I

reckoned he had come to sling his hammock
afresh, the land not yielding him weevils enough,
and the likes of such delicacies."

The men grinned, and one of them said, " No
fear, sir, we shall he all right along with you."

Oh, then, Mr. Seymour, you knew the ho'sun
before ? " exclaimed Aunt Damaris, looking at him
with interest.

'* Yes, he and I served aboard the same ship,"
said I. " Jim, I am glad you are with me, old
shipmate. I know you of old — up and down like a
yard of pump-water. Shilling; and you're here to
put me right if I go wrong."

*' No fear of your going wrong, sii'," answered
the ho'sun heartily. " Ladies, it's not for me to
speak with the gentleman himself a listening' ; but
if there's aught to be done in the way of saving
life by coolness and courage, and the knowledge
of a British seaman, then all I can say is the
gentleman that Captain Thompson has put this
here boat in charge of is the brightest of the few
right parties that was in our dead and gone ship
who could ha' been chosen for such a job — unless,
indeed, the long-shore life he's been a following' of
for the last three years, 'cordon' to his own account,
has spoiled him, — which Fm not one as thinks."

He delivered this speech with his eyes fixed on
Aunt Damaris, as if the honest fellow had it in his
mind to give me a hand in other ways than that of

steering and handling the gig. I shook my head
at him as if I should say " A little too thick, Jim —
but thanks all the same ; " and the old lady exclaimed,
'' I know quite enough of Mr. Seymour to
believe all that you say of him. I pray that God
may enable him to deliver us from this awful
situation."

"Amen, ma'am, to that," said the bo'sun; while
one of the men near him growled out, " Same here,
Fm sure."

The breeze continued very light but steady in the
west. The boats kept fairly well together, within a
circle whose diameter would be about half a mile.
As the sun climbed up the sky, the dazzle came off
sharp from the blue swell, and the glove of the
orb's light hung like a haze ujDon the north-east
sea, where you saw the near horizon undulating
through it like the folds of a huge snake, till it
came out clear into a liquid azure, brightly ruled
against the heavens in the south and west where
groups of clouds, with snowlike bosoms bulging
forth, hung low with a gleam of the crater between
them and us, and over them a sky shining dimly
among a fringe of vapor' that spread like feathers
right across the dome, their tips pointing southwest.
One could hear them talking in the longboat
sometimes, though we were to windward.
There was nothing strange in the sound, since 3'ou
saw where it came from ; but there were moments

when I'd find a kind of puzzlement stealing over
me on glancing from the vacant leagues of blue on
my right to the sea on the port beam and quarter,
and seeing the boats there. Disaster can never be
so long in coming but that, when it arrives at last,
it bewilders a man. The change from the Strath-more,
with her white length of decks, her cabins,
her shelter, the life of her as you found it when
looking along at the people who swarmed forward
and on her forecastle, to a small open boat, was
violent enough to make one slow in getting used
to it.

So languid was the breeze, that om rate of sailing
was little more than two and a half miles an hour,
and many a yearning glance would I cast over the
swell that sparkled in the wake of the sun, for it
would be a grand thing if the breeze came on to
blow with weight in it out of the north, and drive
us swiftly over this calm sea, and show us St.
Paul's Island fair over the bows at daybreak next
morning. I said as much to Florence, who asked
me if I knew what sort of place that island was.

'*No," I replied, ''I was never ashore upon it"'

Is it inhabited ? " asked Aunt Damaris.

"I can't tell you," said I. ''I fancy whalers
call there occasionally to boil down their oil
and to fill their casks with rain water which collects
in hollows on top of the rocks. It's an extinct
volcano, I believe."

*' Oh, gracious!" cried the old hide : ''^hat a
place to seek refuge on ! "

"Any of 3-0U men know St. Paul's Island?" I
asked.

They shook their heads ; they had heard of it,
but couldn't recollect ever having sighted it.

To be wrecked on a desert island," said I to
Florence, '* is something to boast of. It'll make a
heroine of you when you get ashore."

'• Oh, Jack, shall we ever reach the shore? " she
exclaimed, looking past me into the dim blue
distance,

'•Of comes we shall," I reeked. "All we have
to do is to reach the little island, and amuse ourselves
with studying its structure until a ship
arrives to carry us back to CHfton."

"To Clifton ! " cried Aunt Damaris. "You
mean to Australia."

What does it matter," said I, "so long as ita
place where there are railways and steamboats ?"

"You never thought of tJiis part. Jack," said
Florence, heartening up a bit and stealing her hand
into mine, "when you made up your mind to follow
me."

My darling, a good deal worse than this would
not have stopped me."

What a mercy you came ! " exclaimed Aunt
Damaris: "I for one am sure I should not have
known what to do without you."

"You are very kind to say that, Miss Hawke.
So far, I have been of little enough use. But I
will do my best. You remember what I said to
you on board the Stratford ? If your lives are
only to be preserved at the expense of mine, you'll
find no hesitation in me. My darling here is first,
and you are next ; and I am grateful to you for
making me feel that I would undergo more than
I should care to say for your sake, from respect and
liking for you ; for there was a time Miss Hawke,
when I believed you would never regard me as a
friend, but on the contrary as a vulgar-minded
young sailor chax^ who had broken rudely in upon
your brother's family "

She grasped my hand, forcing me to tauten the
yoke-line till the boat swerved to it. " Mr. Sey-mour,"
she mumbled in my ear, " if you have the
least pity for me, say no more on that subject. I
opposed you because I did not know you ; you have
tricked me for nearly three months, and let that
satisfy you. I know you now, and I consider my
niece fortunate in having such a lover."

This brought a blush into my darling's face. The
men, talking among themselves, did not heed
us, nor could they have heard us in any case. I
squeezed the old lady's hand in the fulness of my
heart, and then let go of it to attend to the boat ;
and not quite to change the subject, but to carry
it away a bit from its personal tone, I spoke of

Clifton, wondered what my relatives and the Hawkes
were doing at that time, reminded Florence of the
anthem in Bristol Cathedral, and, one thing leading
on to another, I gradually slipped into something
like a full relation to Aunt Damaris of my courtship
at Clifton, telling her of the first occasion
of my meeting with Florence ; of the girlish kindly
part played in the business by my cousins ; of
what my aunt thought of it ; how my uncle was not
to blame, as Mr. Hawke had imagined ; how I had
not insulted Mr. Hawke, but had merely objected to
his ordering me to leave Bristol, and so on. The
old lady listened with close attention. She seemed
to forget our situation whilst she nodded and broke
in upon my story with such exclamations as
'* Perfectly natural!" "Most ill-advised on ni}-
brother's part." "Your aunt showed a proper
neighbourly feeling," and the like; whipping out,
when I explained the nature of Mr. Hawke' s
interview with me in my lodgings, that he had
given her a very different version of the story ; but
he was foolishly prejudiced, as she had been indeed,
in favour of "that wretched Mr. Morecombe " (her
own words). Florence followed my narrative with
close interest too, dressing my hand, which she
retained, whenever I came to any part that particularly
concerned her or my own love for her.
We were in a queer situation for such talk as that ;
but the men were spinning yarns to one another as.

they sat with folded arms smoking their pipes ;
we were bound to converse too, and to Florence and
me at all events no subject could be fuller of interest
than the one I had lighted upon. And never was
the wish for life, the desire for years in the futile,
stronger upon me than whilst I talked, finding
the most gracious encouragement you could imagine
in the lean yellow face of the old lady, and looking
from her to my love nestled at my side, with the
faint blue of the heavens reflected in the tender,
luminous, loving eyes she kept fixed upon me, and
her hair glittering under her hat against the huge
and lonely background of ocean that softly came
in swells out of the wonderful liquid distance.

Chapter Iii.

LAND-HO !

I SHOULD only be tedious to give you, fact by fact,
the passage of that day. I thought it would never
end. I'd sometimes look at the sun and fancy
he was under a spell and meant to stop where he
was, so long he took to reach the meridian and so
tedious was his descent. At noon by my watch we
opened a tin of meat and made a meal. There were
no plates nor knives and forks ; and I had to serve
out the meat by digging it up from the tin with a
sheath-knife that one of the seamen handed to me.
I placed a couple of cubes of it on two cuddy biscuits,
and persuaded Florence and her aunt to eat. A
drink of water was then passed round, but as there
was only one vessel for that purpose — a tin pannikin
— and as it went against me to think of my
darling putting her lips to such a sea-goblet as that,
I knocked off the head of a bottle of wine, leaving
the cork in, which did very well as a glass for my
pet and her aunt.

It fell a dead calm soon after the hour of noon ;
the swell ran very softly, like quicksilver, with a
shadow of blue that looked to glide off its summits
as the folds rolled forward. Hot it would have
"been at that hour had the sun showed a clear disk,
but all the morning a sort of haze that was neither
fog nor cloud had been working up over the sky,
making the blue of it so dim that it was difficult
to tell it from the palest green, with patches of
motionless cloud hanging under it, so that the sun
was just a blazing shapeless blot, resembling liquid
fire oozing through a hole in the sky and forming a
burning golden pool up there. Nevertheless, long
before this hour Florence had thrown of her warm
jacket, and Aunt Damaris her wonderful cloak, and
I my pilot-cloth coat (begging pardon for being in
my shirt sleeves), and the bo' sun his sleeved waistcoat.
When the calm fell we put a couple of oars
out to draw near to the long-boat, as I wished to
consult Daniel : thinking it a pity that, since we
had but sixty or seventy odd miles to measure,
we did not take to rowing so as to make the most
of this smooth water and fine weather. We
approached close, and I put the point to Daniel.
He stood up to answer me, and it was a moving
sight, I can tell you, to see the crowd of faces all
looking at us — men, women, and children — with
several pairs of eyes gleaming under the foot of the
lug.

'rit's not only that we're too crowded for rowing,"
answered Daniel, '' but our boat's too heavy
to do anything with her in that way that'll be
serviceable. We're not like you, Seymour — a
smart little gig ; our oars are pretty nearly sweeps,
and there's no use putting my people to galley-slaves'
work."

The truth of this struck me when I looked at his
large, deep, full-bowed crowded boat, and waving
my hand, I sung out, "You're right, captain; it
would be galley-slaves' work with you."

He exclaimed : " You can take to your oars if
3'ou like. We don't want to detain you; but I'd
rather the boats should keep together so long as
it's possible for them to do so."

I replied that I had no intention of parting company,
and so our brief colloquy came to an end.
But it was idle, trying work sitting upon that
heaving, burnished surface watching the boats
swinging over it, with two of the quarter-boats
astern fading out in the brassy glare of the sun
upon the water. Our patience, however, was not
long tested ; it was about three o'clock in the afternoon
when, looking up at the sky, I perceived a
drifting of the clouds away towards the south-west ;
and soon afterwards, whilst standing up to peer
around the horizon for any sign of a ship, I spied
the water dark in the north-east quarter ; and
within twenty minutes the boats were pushing

forwards again before a merry breeze that whipped
the ocean afresh into blue, putting feathers of foam
into the curl of what was little more than ripples,
and cleansing the heavens somewhat, though there
were clouds on the sea-line to windward with a look
about them that made me think the breeze would
freshen as the sun declined.

The unequal sailing powers of our little squadron
were again shown ; we had to tie a reef in our lug-sail
to enable us to keep abreast of the long-boat,
and ease off our sheet until the sail was blowing
forward like a flag whenever she did, to allow the
other boats to overhaul us. Regularly, every hour,
I would make an entry in my notebook of the
number of miles we had progressed during that
time, always taking care to have opinions of the
seamen before settling our speed to my own satisfaction.
But when six o'clock came, what with
the calm, and our having to slow down for the
other boats, I found that at sundown we were still
a full fifty-five marine miles from the island of
St. Paul's, supposing Daniel's calculations of our
distance to have been correct ; so that if we increased
our speed to seven or eight miles an hour
we should fetch the island in the dark, before daybreak,
if we did not miss it.

My anxiety now began. Whilst the daylight
remained abroad, and the breeze was moderate,
and the sea smooth, there was no cause for uneasiness

; but I felt a wild kind of won come into
me when the sun set with a freshening wind and a
growing sea, and when I thought of plumping into
the island in the blackness, not being able to see
where to land, with a heavy surf, perhaps, roaring
round it, and with surges too heavy to make it
possible for a small open boat to keep an ofiQug.
The sun's lower limb was upon the water when,
being within hail of the long-boat, the others nearly
a mile in our wake, I exchanged a farewell sentence
or two with Daniel. I shouted, " I make our distance
fifths-five miles to St. Paul's''

That's right," he cried ; " our reckoning
tallies."

"I'll endeavour to keep your lights in sight," I
bawled; "if we are parted, God bless you and
preserve us all ! "

The whole of her people answered with a cheer
which we returned; and as the echo of it died
in our throats the sun sank behind the sea, and the
night came out of the east like a shadow you could
watch the progress of, with a star shining wanly
deep down in it. Though the wind was north —
having now veered due north — and should have
been warm, it seemed, when the sun was gone, to
take an edge as shrewd and bleak as the southerly
breeze last night had brought with it. The bo'sun
was steering the boat, and, sitting on the aftermost
thwart, I picked up my darling's jacket and put it

VOL. III. N

on her, and strapped up Aunt Damaris in her
cloak. I then secured their waterproof garments
around them both, leaving them to keep their
places in the stern sheets for the present, though
they would have to come out of that if the sea
continued to rise, as it would need the broad
shoulders of the seamen to bolster the surges for us.
The darkness deepened as the evening advanced.
There was no moon, and, God preserve us ! as
I looked aloft I saw we were to have another black
night. Presently, the two small globular lanterns
aboard the long-boat were hoisted at the masthead,
where they winked and skipped like will-o'-the-wisps
as the clumsy little craft tumbled and wallowed as
she ran. The lights of the other boats twinkled
fitfully astern, the hindermost of them scarce
visible; ours was still wanting, so I told one of
the men to get it lighted and hoisted; but sudden'
the bo'sun said, " Mr. Seymour, how are we to
steer, sir ? The glimmer the white card made has
gone off it."

Is that the only lantern in the boat ? " I asked.
'^ That's all, sir," answered the seaman.
Then," said I, "we must use it for the compass,
that's certain. Captain Thompson's bound to guess
why we don't regularly exhibit it, though from
time to time one of you can hold it up for a
few minutes."

'will there be any extra danger if we don't

show it, Mr. Seymour? '' cried Aunt Damaris, whoso
far as I could make out in the dusk, had grabbed
hold of the gunwale with one hand, and was
turning her head from side to side in terror of the
seas which she watched rolling after us.

*' None whatever," I replied. "The sole object
of the light is to let Captain Thompson know weare
keeping him company. It is meant to reassure
him so far as we are concerned. But so long as
we can see his lights, we shall know where he is,
and that's all we need mind."

We were sailing at about five and a half miles an
hour. There was quite enough sea on to oblige us
to watch the boat with the utmost narrowness and
care. Far as the eye could stretch, the ocean was
a great weltering shadow, a kind of liquid gloom
that would look to be throbbing all over when a
surge hove us up and gave us a view of the dark
scene. But near at hand the foam ran white and
broad; every wave that chased us carried its
burden of snow for a space through the dusk, and
would seem to fling it after us in spite when the
slanting reeling rush of the gig left the ebony
hillock to sink exhausted in her wake. There was
not a clear space of sky to be seen, not a star ; now
and again at that hour we could catch sight of the
twin lanterns of the long-boat, but it was a hard
job to make sure of them as they showed above or
vanished behind the black ridges whose hollows

would sink us several feet below the sea-level, for
the water was full of phosphorus all around us.
Sometimes a wave would arch over and break into
a stream of fire, the foam of it resembling boiling-water.
There were flashes of the wild green light
in every running shadow; it drove away in revolving
clouds astern of us, and it sparkled against
the sky in the crests of the surges when our low
boat slipped into a trough. These sharp gleams
confounded the eye, and over and over again I
would mistake them for the lights of the long-boat.
As to the other lanterns, there was no sight of
them to be had at all. I was willing to suppose
they were used by the people to steer by, as mine
was ; but in any case, wherever the boats might be,
it was certain before two hours of the darkness had
passed that we had left them far astern ; and the
last we saw of the long-boat was the feeble glimmer
of her lamps a long long stretch away down upon
our port quarter.

But there was no stopping now : the freshening
wind had raised a sea that was as dangerous to us
as if it had been twice as heavy ; and we should
have stood to fill the boat had we slackened an
inch of the sheet or reduced our pace to let the
others come up. I caused Aunt Damaris and
Florence to sit in the bottom of the boat forward
of the aftermost thwart, where their bodies would
find some shelter, whilst the weight of them being

low was the better for us all ; and I made two of
the seamen come aft and sit one on either side the
bo'sun, who was still at the helm, telling them to
keep a bright lookout over the stern for the seas,
and if they saw one coming that was likely to
tumble upon us, to put their shoulders against the
bo'sun's and make a breakwater of their backs.
The other men I ordered to keep crouched down
forward, as to trim the boat properly we did not
want all the weight aft. Meanwhile I posted
myself close to the compass, on which I kept my
eye, holding my darling's hand for the endearment
of it and that she might find encouragement in the
grasp, and incessantly reassuring both her and
her aunt as heartily as I could. Sometimes I'd
pipe out a scrap of sea-song, specially when the
swing of an extra heavy sea would send us rushing
like an arrow upwards and forwards, and then
leave us in the calm of a hollow full of the noise of
hissing and crackling spume, with the wail of the
wind over our heads ; for these would be terrifying
moments to Florence and her aunt and alarming
enough to the others of us, let me tell j^ou, my
lads ; so that it was a kind of relief to myself, however
it might hearten the rest, to shout out,
"Cease, rude Boreas!" or 'aloud roar'd the
dreadful Thunder," or "Dublin Bay," or some old
song of that kind. The bo'sun invariably joined in
when I thus let fly, and would follow on with such

exclamations as " Hurrah, boss ! she's got the
scent ! " "Go it, old bucket ! smoke and hum —
strain your lovely timbers — jump, you little devil !
jump ! hurrah, boys — this is proper sailing ! "

Well, it was by God's blessing that the wind was
a following one, for it not only qualified us to steer
a true course, but it enabled us by running to take
half the weight out of it. We could have done
nothing with it had it drawn ahead ; the utmost
we could have attempted would be to ride to our
oars and take our chance of being rolled over ; but
with a single reef in our lug and the fresh wind
blowing dead over the stern the long, slender,
shallow boat swept along like a little comet,
topping the seas as if the bit of canvas that
dragged at her mast lifted the keel out of it at
every jump, the bo'sun holding her true as a hair
to her course. The edge of the sense of danger
was a trifle turned by the deep feeling of excitement
that was put into one. Our speed was never more
than six knots, but she looked to be going twelve,
for the nearer you are to the water the faster your
motion through it will appear ; and the foam swept
by in a manner to keep one thrilled. The water
blazed around us ; the black ridge astern broke
into a shining: then "Look out, lads, now!" I'd
shout ; and the boat's stern would be run u-p and
the whole little fabric hurled forward till she'd feel
to be standing end on ; then, as the incline of the

sea squared its summit under her, she'd hang fair
on a level keel with the full weight of the blast in
her sail and the sea weltering and flashing all
around, whilst behind you'd see the fiery trail of
the wake racing into the airy blackness as if
burning oil had been poured over the side, and
a moment after down she would sink her stern
whilst the dark hill ran roaring away ahead, till
there'd come a lull, and you'd notice bits of foam
glittering with light blowing out from the sea past
the mast, and shining like the gleams of a green
lantern upon a dark wall.

Dm-ing most of that long, trying, perilous night
my belief is that poor Aunt Damaris was more
dead than alive. I'd hear Florence encouraging
her, for her spirit shone out bravely after a bit as
if she had only needed time to shake her mind free
of the terror that had been worked in her by the
sinking of the ship and the fearful nearness of
the swelling sea to us in that open boat ; and the
sweetest bit of flattery that ever fell on my ear was
a speech of hers to the old lady, in which she spoke
of me as a sailor in words I ought not to repeat,
whilst she added that she felt as safe with me as if
we were on dry land, and thanked God that I had
followed her to sea, for she was sure they would
end in owing their lives to me. She could not
imagine I overheard her ; I had been talking to the
bo'sun just before, and a stormy noise came out of

the washing and rowing of the surges; but they
were sitting low down in the boat where there was
little wind to scatter the bell-like notes of my loved
one's voice, and I happened to stoop to get a sight
of the compass at the bo' sun's foot, and so I overheard
her. What did she know of me as a sailor ?
But it was her love that gave her confidence in me,
and the melody of her tones was not clearer than
the note of pride in the words m which she boasted
of me to her aunt. There was no chance of their
getting any rest. There was no room for them to
lie down. Before relieving Jim Shilling at the helm,
I induced them both to drink some wine and eat a
biscuit. I leaned over the thwart and talked to
them, asking if their posture cramped them. No !
they could manage very well as they were ; I was
not to trouble about them, but to give my whole
thoughts to the boat.

'does the sea grow heavier?" asked Aunt
Damaris in a manner that, as I have said, made
me suspect that for most of the time she was a
good deal nearer dead than alive.

*'No," I replied, 'thank God the wind remains
steady. It would be no more than a fine sailing
breeze for the Stratford, but it's a gale for her

gig."

Only keep the water from comme in ! " moaned

the poor old lady.

So far, none has come in, aunt; and it's wonderful,

Jack, how you and the men have managed
to keep the waves from rolling in to us," said
Florence, whose face I could just catch the glimmer
of from the lantern light striking up from where it
was placed in the bottom of the heat, near the
compass, right along under the thwarts.

Shilling handles her nobly," said I. *' I must
relieve him in a minute ; he has had two hours of
it, and I dare not trust the others."

Can yon steer as well as the boatswain, Mr.
Seymour? " tremulously cried Aunt Damaris.

Oh, I hope so. If I doubted myself, I'd leave
him where he is. My darling ! " I exclaimed,
lifting and kissing Florence's hand, "what more
can I do to comfort 3'ou and your aunt ? It breaks
my heart to see 3'ou in such a position as this.
Are you cold, my own ? "

"No," she replied; 'thanks to these warm
clothes which are due to your foresight, Jack.
Aunt, dear, are 3'ou cold ? "

'•' No — but it's a long long night, and the motion
is enough to turn one's brain ! " exclaimed Aunt
Damaris. '* Oh, irhrn do you think we shall reach
land, Mr. Seymom*?"

'' Why, if we continue at this pace, at six o'clock
tomorrow morning," I answered. "Not sooner,
I hope, for I want to make the land before fetching
it."

What time is it now ? "

I held my watch to the lamp, and said, *' A
quarter past eleven."

Oh ! " cried the poor old body, 'then we are to
have seven hours more of this ! " — uttering which
she appeared to collapse and said no more, though
I heard my darling striving to rally her.

I told the boatswain I would take a spell at the
helm, and he was glad to be relieved, for the job of
steering that boat was a terrible strain ujDon the
attention, and two hours of it were as hard as six
hours at a ship's wheel. We watched for a smooth
chance, and then swiftly exchanged places. I told
him to serve out some brandy to the men, for there
were several bottles of that liquor in the boat, and
likewise a meal of bread and preserved meat, and I
also whispered to him to talk to the ladies and
strive his best to hearten them up ; and to this
business he fell, after eating and drinking, very
briskly indeed. I'd hear his voice rumbling, with
a hearty laugh breaking from him often, as he
leaned over the thwart talking, with his back tome
; and he brought the two men forward into the
talk too, constantly referring to Bob or Bill for confirmation
of what he was saying, so that there was
no lack of 'ray, ay!" "True for you, mate!"
That's the time o' day, miss ; it's gospel true all
what the bo'sun's a saying ! " and so forth.

But my attention was sufficiently engrossed, as
you may suppose. I had handled boats in my time

under various conditions of ^vecatber, but never bad
such work as this fallen to my share before. It
kept me breathless ; every nerve in me was screwed
up till the wind as it poured against my back
seemed to pass clean through me with a shriek.
Tbe least inattention, the least neglect to help ber,
as sbe was swung up to the top of a sea and
appeared to pause there looking down, would bave
filled ber out of band. Tbe wildest times were
when the surges broke under ber and the smother
of the froth was flush with the gunwale ; then the
rudder seemed to bave no grip ; it was like floating
in foam with the keel sheer out of the solider
element ; and whenever sbe drove clear of the mess,
and I felt the heavy poising of the clear blackwater
under ber planks, a kind of bursting sigh
would go out of my heart. Tbe sweat poured from
my face, and I bad not been ten minutes with the
yoke-lines taut in my fists when I felt, through
the perspiration that soaked my underclotbes, as if
I were sitting in a bath. I wonder I did not put
a kink into my neck when I recall the manner in
wbicb the sight of the black bills looming up on a
sudden out of the windy gloom on either quarter
kept me stretching it. I sat with my teeth locked,
and could feel the veins upon my forehead standing
out liard under the skin like whipcord. Boys,
could you expect the bo'sun to bave suffered as
I did ? He bad bad bis share of it, as you'd bave

Iviiowu by the glad alacrity with which he surrendered
the helm to me ; but when I took hold of
the yoke-lines I knew that the life of my sweetheart
lay in those bits of white stuff; and that alone made
me much less fit for the job than he. Why, the
thoughts that came into me made a long agony of
that steering. I'd think of a sea tumbling into the
boat and washing us out of her; my darling's
drowning shriek for me to save her; the short,
fierce swimming-battle in search of her. These
would be my fancies as I'd lean forward with a
swift glance at the compass and a long look,
which I knew to be as fierce as a man gives who
fights for his life, at the swollen waters on either
hand of me, alive with the horrible swarming
fishing of phosphorus, and watch the dim outline
of the little craft soar up the black steep ahead,
whilst I'd feel my own shoulders involuntarily
expanding against the pressing arms of the fellows
who sat on my right and left, and my legs straining
like iron against the boat's floor ready to fend off
the sea which one could hear arching over in our
wake.

But, whether it was God's providence or our own
good management, we never once shipped so much
as a bucket of water, if you bar the wet of the
flying foam. Onwards the boat rushed, held dead
south by the magnetic card, with the strong wind
straining her bit of reefed canvas, and her little

cutwater shearing through the gleaming ebony Hke
a paper-knife through the leaves of a book.

At one o'clock the bo'sun relieved me, and there
was then a sensible drop in the wind. Yet the
night was coal-black. If it hadn't been for the
lantern there would have been nothing to look at ;
I'd stare aloft for a star, for a flaw in the sooty
shroud, and bring my eye back from the ponderous
blackness to the lantern for the relief the shine of it
gave me. I dare say it was the haze of spray
blowing low over the sea, but not too low to cover
our boat, that made the night appear so dark.
The presence of the deep was indicated by nothing
but its fires, and the pallid tremor, the spectral
gushing of foam upon it. When I surrendered the
helm at one o'clock in the morning, I was so
exhausted that I was forced to swallow a nip of
brandy and sit down, without attempting to speak,
for five or ten minutes to recover myself. Then,
having benefited from the brief spell of repose, I
spoke to Florence, and found both her and her aunt
wide awake. I caressed and chafed my darling's
hands, and spoke tenderly to the old lady.

You are terribly wearied. Jack," said Florence ;
*' there is a tremble in your voice'*

The exertion of steering this boat is heavy," I
replied. " I have had two hours of it. But the
wind moderates, I think, and we shall be having less
sea."

'' Thank God for that ! " quavered Aunt Damaris.

How grandly 3'OU have brought us through sofar
! " cried Florence.

'' Include the bo' sun, my darling," said I.

Oh, I knew wee should be safe with you, my
own ! " she exclaimed, throwing one arm round
my neck : and since she did this, why, I stooped
and kissed her. None of the seamen may have
seen my action ; but Aunt Damaris did.

You deserve to be kissed ! " she cried, extending
her hand to me. " Oh, Mr. Seymour, you are a
noble young man ! "

Well, to be sure, mates, life is precious, and the
gratitude of people in peril to those whom they look
to for their preservation will make their swelling
hearts put some strange sayings into their mouths.
I simply replied, " If we are saved. Miss Hawke,
I hope you will continue to think of me as you now
do." For answer, she squeezed my hand in both
hers and fell to sobbing; whereupon Florence
spoke to her, whilst I, kneeling upon the thwart,
peered with all my might into the gloom ahead,
never knowing when the loom of land might show
upon the night, seeing that Daniel's estimate of
the distance of the island was based upon dead
reckoning, and that for all I could tell he might be
out by some miles. This consideration made me
wonder whether he was correct in setting us a due
south course ; and I was greatly bothered by these

doubts until, endeavouring to recall what I had
heard about the island, it came into my head that
one point of it was between eight hundred and nine
hundred feet high, an altitude that would be visible
in clear weather for many miles : so that I had
reason to hope that even if the course given us was
wrong by a point or more, we should nevertheless
find ourselves somewhere in sight of that towering
volcanic eminence at daybreak.

The sky grew lighter somewhat with the falling
of the wind, the ocean showed black against the
dimness behind it, and the fall of the surges had
the washing sloppy sound you'll hear at sea when
the billows are losing the impulse of the breeze.
Still there was wind enough to keep us running
fast, and the staunch little gig dived and jumped
like a Deal galley in a gale in the Dot\tis, as she
danced from crest to crest and sprang out of the
troubled hollows. I told the men forward to search
the horizon for a sight of the other boats, and to
inform me if their eyes could see anything like the
loom of a hill ahead : they looked, and so did I, but
there was nothing to be seen save the flicker of
froth tossed up betwixt us and the sea boundary,
and the folding and opening of the shadow of the
night in places to the dancing of the boat.

I'll allow, Mr. Seymour," said the bo'sun, '' that
we've run the long-boat hull down. This here gig
is a crack little craft, sir. Blest if I'd ha' thought

she'd make such weather of it. Bill, have ye taken
in any wet forrarcls ? "

Ne'er a drop," answered the man.

And our chances were better still now, seeing
that both wind and sea were moderating. Indeed,
when it came to my turn to relieve the bo'sun, the
weather had so improved that I allowed one of the
seamen to take a spell at the helm. It was then
three o'clock, with a few stars winking dimly in the
eye of the wind and the darkness luring ponderous
ahead. I Tufted Florence and her aunt from the
cramped position in which they had been crouched
for many hours, and seated them on an amidships
thwart. The old lady complained bitterly of her
legs, which she said were so stiff that they had
scarcely any feeling in them. I told her to stamp
her feet and made her drink a little weak brands
and after a while she said she felt
easier. It was a desperate time for her, poor old
soul : Florence had youth on her side, and a finer
spirit, but Aunt Damaris was an old woman who
had pampered herself all her life ; her blood ran
slowly in her veins ; she was a person easily
alarmed ; and when I looked at her outline upon
the thwart, recalled the feverish worries of last
night, the long endurance of the day, and the
desperate peril we had been in ever since it came
on to blow, it almost amazed me to find her
still alive, capable of sitting without support, and

talking with something even of briskness in her
manner.

Is the island in sight ? " asked Florence.

No," said I; "but if we have been heading
true, it should be visible if the weather were
clear."

"How far are we from it?" inquired Aunt
Damaris. I looked at my note-book, calculated,
and replied, "About eighteen miles."

I hope the wind will not leave us altogether,"
cried Florence.

"No matter if it should," said I. "There are
boys enough in this boat to make her walk."

She spoke of the other boats, and this set us
talking of their occupants. Aunt Damaris wanted
to know which boat Captain Jackson was in.

The one in charge of the second mate," I
replied.

"He'll lead the poor man a dreadful life," said
she : " what a truly offensive person he waS ! "

He showed himself so at the last," I answered.

No, no, all through," cried the old lady : " from
the very first hour of his coming on board. I
always imagined that naval officers were gentlemen.
But I hope to hear no more of the word
gentleman. It has no meaning : it is a mere sound.
At least I have found it so."

"Can the men have a glass of liquor apiece,
sir ? " sung out the bo'sun.

VOL. m.

Certainly : but first shake that reef out, will
you, Shilling ? She'll run the easier for that
extra cloth."

This was at once done, and the sail masthead.
Under the increased pressure the gig drove handsomely,
and the seas astern seemed to drop the job
of chasing her.

Have the other boats as good a chance as ours
of reaching the island. Jack ? " asked Florence.

Certainly they have, darling. But they'll have
needed every bit as much care as we've shown. The
quarter-boats are deep with fifteen people in everyone
of them, and they have not our legs."

'your what ? " exclaimed Aunt Damaris anxiously.

'your speed, I should say; those in charge of
them will have had plenty to do to keep the following
seas from rolling into them."

How long do you think we are likely to be on
the island ? " said Aunt Damaris.

Why, that is impossible to say. Miss Hawke.
Let's get there first. If the long-boat should
fetch it^she's a stout craft — and if a ship be slow
in coming, I for one should be quite willing to take
that boat to go in quest of help, though I had to
sail to Australia to find it."

You'll never leave us with my consent," said
Aunt Damaris. " If you go, you must take Florence
and me."

The bo'sun, who was sitting by, rumbled out a

Laugh which he instantly topped with an apologetic
'Cough.

'' whatever I do will be done for Florence and
you ; be sure of that," I replied.

The old lady then said she preferred to get in the
bottom of the boat again, as she did not feel the
wind so bleak down there ; so I helped her off the
thwart and she crouched down slowly, complaining
and "thing ! " as she bent her old legs. Florence
put herself behind her, and I seated myself next the
bo'sun.

Well, Shilling," said I, " this is a queer muddle
for us to find ourselves in ! What's our lookout
when we get on shore, do 3'OU calculate ? "

Why, I don't see notion for it but to keep all
on watching for ships," he answered. '' What part
of the ocean will this island be in ? "

"Eight betwixt the Indian and Southern Oceans,
midway between the Cape of Good Hope and
Australia, and many thousand miles from civilized
land. That's the devil of it. Shilling. If it
were Madagascar, or even the Marquesas ! but an
infernal volcanic lump 'midst thousands of leagues
of water, offering nothing for vessels to call for !
Well, well, we must trust to Providence. Would to
God those ladies were safe ! "

'' One of them, anyways," said he, significantly.
*' Beg pardon for plain speaking', Mr. Seymour, but
she's a beautiful lady."

She's my sweetheart, Jim."

*' Ay, ye don't want a telescope to see that. And
you're here for the love of her, I allow ? "

*for that only. What short of lier, Shillings
could have brought me to sea again ? "

Well, notion short of it, I should say. I reckon
ye're l^dng up well for the old lady's affection. She
seems to take to 3'ou as if you were her youngest sou
and a clergyman."

I drew forth my pipe, lighted it and smoked.
Very slowly now indeed did the time go by;
I'd look at my watch and wonder to find only
an hour had passed since I last pulled it
out. I repeatedly called to the men forward to
keep a bright lookout for anything like a deeper
shadow in the blackness ahead, but though the
stars hung weak astern, with a faint clearness of
the sky over the horizon there, the night stood
black as thunder over the bows, and it was like
staring into a void to direct one's eyes that way.
The sea was running quietly, with little foam and a
curious subsidence of its phosphorescent flashing
and the wind had fallen to a weight barely enough
to keep us sailing at the rate of four knots. At
last, looking away into the east, I spied the faint
grey of the dawn rising mistily out of the dark
waters. Dimly and slowly it grew, giving a leaden
sickly tinge to sea and sky there, and a cold steel
colour to the clearer heavens in the north. I cried

•'Daj^break at last, thank God ! " and Florence and
her aunt at once rose from the bottom of the boat
nd seated themselves on the thwart. I stood up,
looking intently' ahead past the sail. Everj^ je
was turned in that direction, and not a syllable
was uttered as the cold light went sifting through
the darkness, spreading out north and south, and
giving a most indescribably melancholy, sullen
appearance to the headlong waters, until on a
sudden, and as if in obedience to a command, a
wild cheer broke from every man's throat aboard
the gig as the rugged outline of the island, not
more than eight miles distant, and lying in a line
with the stem of the boat, came shouldering its
towering proportions out of the gloom. '' Oh ! "
shrieked Florence, clasping her hands, " there it is
at last, aunt ! '' and for five minutes full, no other
words escaped us, while the wonderful lonely rock,
growing clearer and clearer, stood out pale and
hard against the light grey of the Southern sky with
the water trembling between us and it, and the
heavens behind us growing blue as the rising smi,
hidden to us, heralded its approach by making
flaming gold of the two lofty peaks of the hollow
towering island.

Chapter Viii.

ST. PAUL'S ISLAND.

The sun rose in a belt of yapoiir that he glorified;
into a streak of dazzling silver to the extreme ends
of the long stretch of it ; and ere soaring clear he
flashed up five or six spokes or beams of white
light, of the length of the horizon, to the zenith.
The spectacle was incomparably beautiful : there
was a pink tinge in the north and west and south,
and the sky that had looked as black as soot before
daybreak, now showed itself to have been made so
by surfaces of cloud resembling the scales of
armor', or ribs on brown sand, in the way they
were compacted, with a clear space in the north
where we had seen the stars ; and sharp under
this scaly sky shone those beautiful silver beams,
as if the sun were the nave of a wheel as big as the
world, of which one half of the tire was hidden
beneath the sea. I somehow found time to notice
this glorious appearance before the sun sailed up
clear, though I could have sworn that my eyes
were at that period riveted on the island, that lay

in white and brown, and sharp upon the sea over
the stem. I gazed intently, calling to the others
to tell me if they could see any sign of a ship near
the land ; but they all said no, there was nothing
to be seen on this side, whatever might be lying
round the corner. " But something may heave in
view as we go along," says the bo'sun, cheerfully.

The breeze that blew kept the waters trembling,
and eastwards it was impossible to look, on account
of the blinding light on the sea there ; but there
were no more billows, nothing but the northerly
swell, wrinkled with the wind. I stood up, and
took a long stare round.

We're alone," said I ; " wherever the other
boats may be, they're not within this circle."

Perhaps some of them may have already
reached the island," exclaimed Florence.

** No fear, miss," cried the bo'sun. '' Lord love
ye ! this here's a boat that would take the whole
of the others in tow and not feel that she was a-
dragging' of 'em."

She has certainly carried us splendidly," said
Aunt Damaris.

Thanks to the magnificent manner in which
she has been handled, aunt," exclaimed Florence.

"Ay, ye may say that, miss-put in one of the
men; "both Mr. Seymour and the bo'sun have
done well."

"Well indeed," grunted another; "there never

was better management ; and it's something, may,
for the sun to rise and show us what we've been
heading' for all through the night slick over the
bows."

*when I first saw this boat," said Aunt
Damaris, '^ and noticed that she was the smallest
of them all, I should have refused to enter her
had you not had charge, Mr. Seymour. Now she
has proved to be the fastest, safest, and best of
them, showing my niece and me once more that we
could not have done better than put ourselves
under your care."

True for you, lady," said the bo'sun. " You'd
have made a big mistake if you hadn't come along
with Mr. Seymour. I told you what he was,
yesterday; and last night's job and that there
island yonder proves my words correct, I thinks

'let's have some breakfast," said I, quite
willing that Aunt Damaris should praise me, but
not much pleased that Shilling should be giving
me all the credit, seeing what his own part had
been. We seated ourselves in such a manner as
to trim the boat properly, and made out a meal
with preserved meat, biscuit, brandy-and-water
for the sailors and me, and wine for the ladies.
The wind blew softly, and we stole along. Aunt
Damaris had a fearfully crumpled look : her curls
were awry, her dress creased like a table-cloth ;
her yellowness had gathered a new shade ; her

greenish e3^es, which had a deep-sunk appearance
owing to the darkness in the hollows of them, were
red and inflamed, as if she had been crying bitterly
throughout the night. Florence had a heavy,
worn look, was very pale, and I'd notice her hand
tremble when she raised it to her mouth ; otherwise
suffering had wrought no marked change in
her : and so lovely she always was, let her appear
as she would, that such things as her hair's
dishevelment and the disorder of her apparel you'd
have observed only as a kind of grace in her.
What sort of a figure I cut I don't much care to
think. It was three mornings since I had shaved,
and my chin felt like a pig's back in the palm of
my hand. Fortunately I was fair, so that this
growth perhaps made no particular horror of me ;
but then it was three mornings since I had washed
myself, since I had put on clean linen, since a
brush had touched my hair : and if you'd like to
know how I relished my appearance (which my
imagination deplorably exaggerated, no doubt),
think of yourself in the state I then was, sitting
in the blaze of the searching morning sun, with
your sweetheart close alongside looking at you.
As to the seamen, you would not have known that
they were not fresh from their forecastle, so very
much as usual was their aspect. They seemed
a trifle wearied perhaps, for this was the second
night they had gone through without sleep — as we

had, — and many hours of the first of those nights
they had passed at the Strathmorcs pumps ; but
they eat then food heartily, obtained permission
to smoke with real satisfaction, and seemed but
very little the worse for what they had undergone.

All this while we were incessantly directing our
eyes at the island, the conformation of which was
now apparent. The slope of it was plain, rounding
up from where a huge rock stood detached from it,
till the highest portion had reached to over eight
hundred feet above the sea, and then sliding down
into a sort of long tail, so that, as you may see
from the subjoined sketch, the appearance of it tous,
at a distance of between six and seven miles,
was that of a monstrous dead floating whale. The

sunshine made it whitish in places, and it resembled
a shape of marble partly shadowed, lying
there in the light blue of the water, with the scaly
clouds slanting and gleaming down with prismatic
tints upon them behind it.

'what a tiny island. Jack!" cried Florence,
gazing at it with a kind of consternation. " How
shall we be able to exist upon it ? " And she gave a
start, and her hands fell to her side, as with a sweep

of her languid sorrowful eyes she seemed to take
into her soul the wonder and loneliness of the mighty
of ocean that surrounded that little rock.

Keep up your heart, my darling' I whispered.
"It is a refuge for the moment, at least ; depend
upon it we shall not be exiled long'" Then,
observing the bo'sun peering at the island under
his hand, I cried, " D ye see anything?"

Well, I fancied I see something like smoke just
now, and I'm trying to make sui-e," he answered,
still staling.

We mustn't hope for too much," said I, after
taking a long look. '•' It's a volcanic island.
Shilling, and what you saw may be vapour
breaking from the cliff''

Whatever it was, it's gone," said he ; '* I don't
see it now."

Aunt Damaris kept silence, with her hands
clasped upon her lap and her eyes fixed on the
land. I don't fancy the old lady actually realized
what it signified; I mean she took it delightedly
as a substitute for the open boat, without thinking
of its nakedness, its frightful isolation, the
chances of a grim and dreadful inhospitality that
might force us for refuge to the boat again.
Gradually as we approached, more and more of
its features grew visible— the huge block of rock
standing up out of the water on the eastern side ;
the vast height of cliff on either hand rounding and

sweeping backwards into a great basin, whereof
the frame appeared to be groups of rugged naked
mountains ; and the sea gleaming in a prodigious
pool past a natural breakwater that came down
shelving from the northern and southern eminences
till they vanished under water in a narrow opening.
The whole rock, indeed, was nothing more nor less
than the mouth of a crater that one could hardly
reckon to be extinct, for in several places from the
topmost cliffs small bodies of vapour were to be
seen sluggishly passing away to the south,
resembling thin volumes of steam rising from
caldrons of hot water. Instinctively one's
thoughts went to the base of the mighty mountain
whose lonely summit forked up eight or nine
hundred feet above the level of the water. Somehow
the fancy of that black, hidden, ocean-washed
tower of land, whose bottom rested upon the blind
bed of the sea, God alone knows how many
hundreds of fathoms deep, made the point it hove
up into the sunshine horribly desolate, unnatural
and wild in my sight. It was like the revelation
of something that nature intended the ocean
should keep hidden, and for that reason this bit
of it that showed was awful to the imagination.
Nothing living was to be seen upon it ; not a trace
of habitation. It seemed like coming to a place
that was not a part of the world we live in ; one
looked at it with the feelings the mind gets when

one peers at the moon through a powerful
telescope and sees mountains and seas hanging
in the deep indigo-blue. Along the ironlike base
of it the azure deep rolled its swell in foam, and the
washing thunder of the surf came back in a sound
that might have passed for the deep strong
moaning of some giant imprisoned in that huge
deep shell of rock.

*' If people ever land there at all," says the
bo'sun, eyeing the island as if it were a strange
animal, " it'll be through the hole in that there
breakwater, Mr. Seymour."

Yes," said I, who was now steering the boat,
and heading her for the aperture indicated as I
spoke; "and a lucky job it is, Shilling, that the wind
allowed us to make that land in daylight: for what
could we have done with it in the blackness ? "

The long swell shortened and flattened as the
water shoaled ; and though the sun was over
the gig's stern, yet I seemed to feel the shadow
of the huge cliffs upon the white clear ah', as we
drove softly into the north entrance with the
curious rocky breakwater jutting out of the blue
on either hand, and running up the cliffs into the
sky. In another minute we were floating on the
small calm internal sea or crater-lake that washed
in silver round the base of the perfect cup, our sail
lowered, and our gaze in search of a landing-palace.
Florence stood erect, with her hands clasped and

her eyes gleaming under a little frown of wonderment
as she looked around her. The strange,
mysterious silence, not a sound of the surf
reaching us ; the tall circular heights of cliff
shadowing the sky, so that one seemed to look upas
through a huge shaft; the startling paleness
of the heavens that closed glimmering like a lid
upon the rocky tops ; the metallic shine like
quicksilver in the water on which we floated ;
the sudden weird environment after the leagues
of open ocean, — combined to produce such an
effect upon us all that for several moments after
we had lowered away the sail we remained silent,
staring about us, and breathing quickly. Then
said the bo'sun, speaking in a low voice, " Isn't
that a hut there, Mr. Seymour ? "

I looked, and spied a rude structure, apparently
formed of rubble and roughly roofed with pitched
planks, standing on a broad ledge of rock up in the
north-eastern corner of the crater.

"Yes," I replied, speaking low too, 'that's a hut.
It's near to the best landing-place I can see.
That'll be the spot to get ashore."

Talk o' Robinson Crusoe ! " I heard one of the
men mutter to another : "damme if this here ain't
a start that beats my time."

"What's that moving up there?" cried Aunt
Damaris, excitedly.

It's a goat ! " exclaimed Florence.

Sure enough it Alas : and beyond it vere two or
three more. They looked down at us quietly, from
a grassy ledge or slope of rock about a hundred
feet high.

Goats, eh ! •' said the bo'sun, peering at them.
'• Well, I'm jiggered ! There oughtn't to be a
man fur off, Mr. Seymour."

If there's one anywhere about, he certainly
can t be far off," I answered.

The boat was brought alongside the low long
ledge that came shelving down past the hut in
the form of an esplanade ; the man jumped out,
and I assisted my darling and Aunt Damaris
to step ashore.

There is always something thrilling in the first
feel of solid di-y land under the feet, after weeks
of the heaving and floating motion of shipboard ;
and I dare say this sense was strong in us aU for
the moment, though Heaven knows it passed
quickly enough in me into a positive emotion
of horror when I glanced at the gloomy frowning
cliffs. To be sure it was a reprieve from those dire
perils of the deep we had come through, but it was
only the reprieve that a desolate frightful dungeon
would give to a man who, entering it, knows not
if ever he shall get away from it. However, it
would not do to give way to such fancies as
these ; I plucked up, and in as hearty a manner
as I could summon, told the men to make the

boat's painter fast, and to hand the provisions and
water out of her. Then, noticing that Aunt
Damaris and Florence could hardly stand, owing
to their cramped limbs, I led them to where a
piece of rock jutting out formed a natural seat,
and leaned by their side against the cliff behind,
watching the men, feeling my own legs too crippled
to attempt any explorations until they should have
got something of their old use into them again.

The sunshine slanted through the broken ruin
of the crater in a perfect gush of misty silver light,
and flashed up half the whitish water of the
lake, till one seemed to be able to see to the
very bottom of it. I now observed that the
island, instead of being the naked lump of rock
it had looked to be when viewed from a distance,
was covered with coarse green grass ; but there
was no bush nor tree of any kind to be seen
upon it. I ran my eyes carefully over the
crater walls, but could perceive no other structure
but the one that stood above us. AVhat scene
the island might submit from the towering
heights, I could not conceive; but I did not
doubt that if there were people upon it, they
would be on this side, near the entrance, where
the cliffs seemed most accessible ; so that, seeing
nobody and only the one dismal forlorn old hut
built a little way up the steep, I felt persuaded,
then and there, that we were absolutely alone.

I found Florence watching me anxiously. I
smiled when our eyes met, and said, " I see but
one hut ; but one is enough — it will shelter us for
the short time I expect we shall remain here."

Oh, Jack," she cried, '" how do you know it will
be a short time ? you can only horn' it ! " And she
glanced sadly across the lake at the cliffs there,
which stood up against the sky like prison walls.

It's a fearfully desolate spot ! " exclaimed Aunt
Damaris, with a shudder, as if she were only now
beginning to understand all the significance of
this ocean rock. "Was there no other land that
we could have reached ? *"

There'll be another island away out yonder,
to the east of north, but uninhabited like this," I
replied. "Exclude that. Miss Hawke, and there
is no land nearer than South Africa and Australia.
Florence darling, you say I can only 1w2)c that our
stay will be short. Well, there is nothing sure, and,
whether one is on a desert island or in a crowded
city, one has still got to go on hoping. But why I
believe we shall not be here long is because this is
summer time in the Southern Ocean, and vessels in
summer time, bound to the eastward, often pass
close to St. Paul's. What we must do is to set up
the boat's mast as a signal-post on that hill-top
there, and if your aunt will lend us the black silk
shawl, or handkerchief, she wears pinned over her
shoulders under her cloak, we'll hoist it as a signal."

VOL. II r. p

'' Oh certainly', you can have it," answered the
old lady ; and with trembling hands she opened her
cloak, removed the shawl, and gave it to me.

By this time the men had got om little stock
of provisions and water ashore, and were looking
round them to see what was next to be done. I was
akeady beginning to feel the benefit of stretching
my legs by standing on them, and, calling to the
bo'sun, I asked him and the others to join us,
that we might hold a council and consider what
measures we were to take for keeping ourselves
alive on the island till help came. The six seamen
approached, and stood in a group fronting us.

'first of all, my lads," said I, " how do you feel,
now that we've done with the sea for a short spell? '"

The bo'sun and two others announced that they
felt first-class, all alive 0, and quite hearty ;
another said that he was pretty middling ; and
the fifth and sixth, that they'd be all right when
they had had some sleep.

And you, ladies ? " asked the bo'sun.

Florence answered that she and her aunt felt
cramped by their long confinement in the boat ;
otherwise they were well.

"Now," said I, 'sour first business will be to
get that boat's mast set up on the hill yonder,"
pointing to the eminence that I have since found
marked as eight hundred and forty-five feet high.
"Miss Hawke, here, has been good enough to

fumisli us "with this shawl, which being hack
will make a fine signal. It'll be a deuce of a
climb," I continued, looking up; 'but it ought to
be done, and done soon."

'jim," said the bo'sun, turning to the man so
called, " let that be yours and my job ; I allow that
you and me's about the freshest."

"Eight you are," responded the man.

I handed the shawl (I give it this name, but in
reality it was a very large square silk handkerchief,
about three and a half feet broad each way)
I say, I handed the shawl to the bo'sun, who
folded it upon his knee, and then shoved it under
his waistcoat.

"Another thing that ought to be done at once,"
said I, " is for two of you to start off, and see if
there's any fresh water to be found. I am afraid
you'll discover nothing but hot springs ; these,
if you come across them, you can taste, so as tolet
us know if the water will be fit to drink when
cold ; but what I hope you'll find is rain water.
I've got a notion that, in the winter time, whalers
call here to fill their casks. There was rain enough
on the night of the collision, and there's a chance
of your meeting with enough to keep those breakers
replenished. Who volunteers for that job ? "

Two of them promptly answered.

"The others," said I, "will keep with me, to
overhaul that hut there, and see what can be done

to make a habitable shanty of it*' I looked at my
watch. ** We might as well have something to eat
and drink before we start on our various errands."
Some biscuit and a tin of meat were fetched,
along with the brandy and a bottle of wine. We
threw ourselves down without taking much heed of
what we sat on — it was hard enough, whatever it
was, — and fell to our slender meal. Mates, thais a
picture which comes up often enough in me,
waking and sleeping. The sky had cleared, it
was now a fair blue, and sheer up on our right
went the horn of cliff right into it, with a clean
sweep round into the west and south, and then
di-awing down again into the north, where the edge
of the crater was gone like a triangular piece out of a
china cup, making the heavens glimmer dim over
the smooth white lake, which the natural breakwater
held inviolate from the blue swell that rolled
in snow against the desolate iron base outside.
The sun was due north, and the light of it shone
in a blue airy radiance past the cliff behind us
down upon the southern horn, which it brightened
to its summit ; but the heights under which we
sat were in shadow, and no glimmer of sunshine
touched the lake, and the azm-e gloom — for such
it was — gave a swart and sullen accentuation to
the rows of towering ridges which ran away round.
God ! it wanted but darkness, and a wet gleam of
red moonlight striking through into the water that

tilled a mouth wliicli had once been incandescent,
and through which, with that water gone, a man
might in other days have peered down into the
central hell of this earth, to set a timid creature
seeing ghosts; and what fitter j^li^y-g^ound for
drowned seamen's wraiths ? Heart alive ! it was
a relief to the strained fancy, worked up into
moments of agony by conjecture of what our fate
might prove, to turn one's gaze from that frightful
solemn hollow, uj) through which one knew the
time had been when the convulsed earth in her
fiery throes had spewed great crimson flames and
vast coils of sooty smoke, to the bronzed and
hay features of the sailors ; to the homeliness
of poor Aunt Damaris, sitting there in her warm
gown and cloak, slowly masticating her bit of
bread and meat, with forlorn eyes dismally revolving
round the naked rocks ; to the languid beauty
of my darling, who never met my gaze without a
softening of her lovely eyes that set my heart
bitterly yearning for any, oh for the least assurance
of her ultimate preservation.

If the long-boat means to fetch this island,
Mr. Seymour," said the bo'sun, "she should be
heaving in sight by this time."

'' You may sight her as you climb," I replied.
'' I'd sooner all the other boats missed this rock
than that she should. She's a craft to make use
of if help should prove too long in coming."

"^Yhat help have ^e to reckon on, sir ?" asked
one of the men.

A passing ship."

He looked down, making no answer.

"I see notion' to make a flare of — notion' that'll
make a smoke," said another of the men, glancing
at the cliffs over his shoulder.

Well, let's have a hunt before we settle those
things," said I. '' There may' he a store of old
planks knocking about somewhere."

We shan't want for fresh meat, if there's e'er
a one of us nimble enough to catch them there
goats," observed the bo'sun.

"Ay, ye have to catch 'em first," said a seaman.

I have a pistol," said I. ''By lying hid, some
execution may be done with it."

How are we to cook the meat when we get it ? "
inquired Florence.

Why, miss, there ought to be fire in this here
island, if it's fii'e as makes smoke," said the bo'sun,
pointing to the vapour that was here and there
oozing from the cliffs. " And if there's fire, there
ought to be notion' to stop us from cooking a
blooming' old goat."

Perhaps we may find a hot-water spring fit to
boil fish in — and flesh, too," said I. " There ought
to be no lack of fish here."

They'll be like the goats, sir," answered one
of the men, grinning : '' they'll want catching."

We'll catch 'em, if eve have to dive for 'em,"
exclaimed the bo' sun. " ^^Ti}', William, one "hid
think your liver was gone wrong, mate." Then,
puling off his waistcoat and carefully folding it,
he proceeded to roll up his shirt-sleeves, meanwhile
eyeing the cliff he was to climb, with his lips
moving as if he were calculating. The man who
was to assist him also turned to to adjust himself
for the very arduous job.

We lingered a bit longer while the others
finished their dinner, talking over our chances of
escape, what was to be done to attract the attention
of distant ships, and so forth ; and then the men
set about their duties. I advised Florence and her
aunt to keep where the' were, for though the hut
was not far off, there was a knee-splitting climb to
be done in order to fetch it ; but the old lady said
she was too nervous to be left alone.

How are we to know," she exclaimed, with an
alarmed look around, ^'that this island is not
inhabited by savages or wild beasts ? "

There's no room for such objects, MissHawke,"
I replied. " Why, I don't suppose the whole place
is very' much more than two miles long, and out of
that you've got to take the lump of circular water
there. But if you're at all nervous by all means
accompany us, if you think you can climb to that
hut."

She instantly got up, and I told the two seamen

to support lier by laying hold, each of them, of an
arm ; and then passed mine under Florence's, that
she might use me as a crutch, and we slowly tramped
up towards the hut, leaving the bo' sun and his
mate busy stepping the mast in the gig, whilst
the others were scrambling over the rocks in search
of water and of whatever else was to be met with.

Jack," said Florence, *' do you think we shall
be saved ? "

Yes," said I.

"But how, Jack?"

'' By a ship sighting our signal ; or by some of
us going away in the long-boat, when she arrives ;
or by sending the gig to cruise twenty or thirty-miles
off away out yonder, to intercept or chase
liny passing vessel. Most of us are sailors, my
darling, and we shall find a way to be saved."

You and the bo' sun managed the little boat
wonderfully well last night, Jack. What darlings
sailors are when one is in danger ! But is not this
a dreadful adventure ! How sorry you must feel
that you followed me to sea."

You aren't look me full in the face and say
that'' said I, tightening my grip of her.

She peeped at me with a half-smile ; and then,
with a shudder and a deep sigh, she exclaimed, " Oh,
Jack, I wish we were safe at home in Clifton ! "

"A little patience, my pet," said I; 'depend
upon it, we'll find our way there."

"Does not my aunt keep up wonderfully ? should
not you have thought that such a trial as this
would have broken her down — almost JdUcd her ? '*
said she, sinking the music of her voice into a
tremulous note of awe.

I looked at the poor old lady staggering and
slipping betwixt the two rough figures of the seamen,
and agreed that she had certainly passed
through quite enough since the night of the
<3olHsion to have killed her off, had she not been
a very wiry person. And here, maybe, having
Florence alone, and her sweet arm snugged against
my side, I might have indulged in several flights
of sentiment respecting Aunt Damaris as an ally,
and the strong hope of ultimately winning Mr.
Hawke's favour which her regard and liking for me
had kindled; but conversation was speedily rendered
impossible by loss of breath. The old lady constantly
forced the seamen to halt; and as often as she
paused we did. The inner sides of the crater here
ran away, to a height of eight hundred feet or soin
a sharp slope crowded with bulging rocks, long
broad ledges, inclined platforms and the like, and
the labour of climbing — I do not speak of the sailors,
who were fresh from the ratlines and foot-ropes
of the ship — was quadrupled in our case by the
deep feeling of fatigue that want of sleep induces,
and by the crippling of our limbs through our
cramped confinement in the narrow gig. I felt

hearty ashamed of my own lack of physical energy
which I could only attribute to the indolent life I
had led for three years ashore ; but, nevertheless,
was always thankful enough when Aunt Tamarisk
pausing gave me an excuse to stop too, and fetch
my breath. Indeed, I believe that short climb
distressed me more than Florence; which I can
only attribute to the intense mental anxiety I had
passed through and was still enduring, and to its
effects upon my nerves and strength.

Beaching the hut at last, we found ourselves
inspecting one of the rudest shanties mortal being
could imagine. It was about twelve feet long by
ten feet broad; composed of windowless walls,formed
of rubble or bits of rough rock and stone and
rubbish cemented by a kind of mud, the appearance
of which made one suppose it to have been taken
from a bed of volcanic clay. It was roofed by a
number of rude planks blackened with pitch,
though rusty with wet and exposure. The entrance
faced the slope. There was no door, and when I
peered in, not knowing what sight I was to behold
in it, I had to shut my eyes, and rub them, and
wait a little before I could see. The structure was
perfectly empty. Here and there, in patches, the
coarse grass of the island flourished u^Don the
floor. I struck a wax-match and looked into the
corners, but found nothing. No hint was furnished
us of the use this hut had been erected to serve ;

whether it was built by sealers or by castaways for
shelter, or by a hunting party as a temporary refuge
whilst they caught fish for salting, it was idle to
conjecture. The gloom and nakedness of it fell
with a chill upon the heart. I could not conceive
of any detail invented by human hands that should
more desperately heighten the horrible loneliness
of that desert ocean-rock than this grim, dark,
naked hut, suggesting nothing, and by its muteness
forcing the mind into the dreariest fancies.

I looked at Aunt Damaris and Florence, who
stood outside in the light, peering in at the dusk
in which my figure would be scarcely visible to
them.

A nice hotel for them poor ladies to come to ! "
said one of the fellows at my side, under his breath.

Ay, we must count it as among the pleasures
of shipwreck," I replied. " But let's say nothing to
dishearten them or ourselves, mate." And quitting
the hut, I said to Aunt Damaris, " It's but a rough
place, Miss Hawke, but it's a shelter any way ;
it'll be a roof to lie under; and I, for one, am
thankful to find it ready for us here."

Is there any bed-place in it — anything to lie
upon?" cried the poor old bod', striving to
pierce the dim interior.

We'll soon rig up something that'll answer the
purpose of a bed-place," I replied.

Oh, Jack ! " exclaimed Florence, catching hold

of my arm, "it'll be impossible for us to sleep in
that dreadful hole ! "

'' It'll be full of rats ! '' groaned out Aunt
Damaris. ''Oh dear! oh dear! what a situation
to find one's self in ! " and the tears streamed
down her face.

This wouldn't do at any price ; so putting a
great show of bustle and heartiness in my
manner, I sung out, " Why, it's a first-class
shelter ! What should we have done without it ?
With the boat's sail for a mattress, Miss Hawke,
you'll lie as snug as ever you did aboard the Strath-more.
As to light, we have the boat's lantern ;
hind besides, there'll be no need to see when the
night comes — we shall want to sleep. Why, the
sight of that hut should make one thank God I
Men, think of the ladies having no bed but these
rocks, no cover but that sky up there. Florence ! "
I cried, caressing the hand that clutched my arm,
^' Where's the fine spirit that supported you through
yesterday and last night? If ever we're to see
Clifton again, my darling, we must cheer our
spirits up so as to remain alive ; for it's grief and
misery that kill — not an old hut like that, which
will keep the wet ofl' if any wet falls ; nor an island
like this, which, bad as it is, is a mighty deal better
than a small oi3en boat in half a gale of wind. Eh,
my lads ? what say bijou J "

'' Why," answered one of them, ^' I say that what

ye're observing, sir, is full of good sense. No use
crying, ladies. The job's a bad 'un ; but, bad as it is,
it might ha' been so much worse, that ye can't look
fair into it without beholden' a kind of bordering
that should put a stop to any kind o' growling."

Ay, ladies, it's a bad job, as this man here
says," observed the other seaman, who probably
supposed that I expected he should also make a
speech : *' but it isn't so thick as to shut out all
daylight ; and ye know, mum, sailors don't take
much notice of a squall that they can see through. '*^

'•' Those are the right sentiments," said I. " And
now, lads, suppose we turn to and get this house
shipshape ? We'll bring the sail up from the boat,
and store the provisions here ; and whilst you go
about that job, I'll make my way up yonder and
have a look at the ocean ; for, as the bo'sun said,
if the other boats mean to join us, it's about time
they were heaving in sight."

Finding I meant to leave them for a few minutes,
Florence and her aunt said they would go with the
sailors to the place where they had sat near the
boat ; it was cheerfully there than near that
dreadful hut : so whilst they made their way doom
the slope, I slowly and laboriously climbed to a
height of about a hundred feet above the hut, which
brought me to the edge of the horn looking westwards,
whence I could see the huge lonely rock
that stood hard by. shaped like a ninepin and

called, as I have since beard, b}^ that name, with
the open sea gleaming past the channel betwixt it
and the coast of the island, and the leagues of water
around stretching from about north by east to due
south. After even the short environment of those
lonesome towering crater-walls, it was with a sort
of momentary joy that one looked into the mighty
open distance. I was about the height of the
StratJimorc's main royal 3'ard above the water, and
consequently commanded a vast surface of ocean ;
but though my sight was extremely good and the
atmosphere was of glass-like purity, I could not
perceive the least sign of the boats. Not the
faintest speck of white broke the sweep of the blue
girdle. There was a faint bluish shadow trembling
upon the sea-line past the ninepin-shaped rock,
a little to the east of north : and for some moments
I looked at it, wondering what it could be, but
never for an instant mistaking it for a ship ; till it
came into my head that Amsterdam Island would
bear that way, about forty or fifty miles from St.
Paul's, and that that dim blotch there must be it.
I was amazed to see no signs of the boats. We
had come through a rough night, it is true ; but
since the gig had weathered it, the others should
have been able to do so : and even supposing the
sea had run too high for the management of one
or two of them, it was not to be imagined that aU
had suffered. "Where were they, then ? Why' did

not the long-boat heave in sight ? Had they, more
fortunate than us, been picked up by a ship ? If so,
and in such weather as this, she was sure to seek
us in this isLand. Yet there was no appearance
of a ship. Had they mistaken Amsterdam Island
for St. Paul's ? Had they run past this island in
the dark ? That seemed impossible ; for the gig was
the fastest boat, the others were a long way astern
when the night came down, and yet, fast as we had
sailed, we were a good eight miles distant from St.
Paul's when the day broke ; so that they could not
have outrun this bit of land. I scanned the great
blue surface narrowly, through sixteen points of it,
which was as much as I could embrace, but it was
a huge blank in every direction except where the
distant island dimly smudged the gleaming blue of
the sky. Bitterly disappointed and deeply worried
I felt : for I had reckoned upon the long-boat as a
means of making our desperate condition known ;
for, as I have said, she was a fine large powerfully
built boat, and I, for one, should not have hesitated
in trying for the Cape, or Australia, or any other
distant land in her, to summon help there, if I
did not meet with it on the road.

It was a gloriously fine day : the sky of that soft
and noble blue one only sees in these latitudes,
with a few puffs of pearl-like cloud slowly moving
under it; the same light northerly draught that
had wafted us that morning to the island was

abroad ; and 3-011 saw the water twinkling up the
great blinding shining silver shaft that lay upon
the sea under the sun, till it dissolved in liquid
sparkles full of prismatic tints upon the deep blue
of the heavens behind the ocean-line. The swell
ran gently, yet the thunder of it came up to me from
the base of the cliff I sat on ; and from that noise,
heard amidst a scene of the tenderest azure
splendour, sou guessed what the roaring would be
when the tempest raged over the mighty world of
ocean that sloped, as I looked into the north, to
the broiling Indian coasts without a break of land
between, if you save the Chaos Archipelago. Oh,
it was a sense of infinity that made an overwhelming
thought to me, who sat as a castaway
looking into the brilliant remoteness, and it was
a kind of mechanical instinct — as a man raises his
arm to save his face from a blow — that drew my
eyes otway from the terror of that enormous
expanse of blue sea to seek the bo' sun on the
heights above, for the relief I should find in turning
my back upon a spectacle too vast for the
mind to conceive without a strain that might
ruin it.

Well, he and his mate were not atop of the
great cliff yet ; but they had made wonderful progress,
considering the character of the steep, and
their having to bear a middling heavy spar along
with them. I left my perch, and got down to where

Florence and her aunt was sitting, and found that
the men had carried the boat's sail to the hut,
together with some of the provisions, and were now
walking off with a small cask of water betwixt
them, handling it as if it were glass, for we could
not yet be sure that there was more to be had
when that was gone.

"Aire the other boats in sight, Mr. Seymour?"
asked Aunt Damaris, the moment I was near
enough for her to call to me.

'' No," I replied, "there are no signs of them."

"No signs of them!" cried Florence, in a
tone of alarm. " What has become of them,
then ? "

No signs of them ! " echoed her aunt. " Gracious
mercy ! what can have happened ? "

It's impossible to guess," I replied. *' I don't
know what to think. They may have mistaken
the other island for this. They may have been
rescued. They may all have foundered. God alone
knows why they don't heave in sight." Then,
seeing that I was showing too much of the disconsolate
mood I had tumbled into up on that cuff
there, I said, " But please understand. Miss
Hawke, that, so far as we are concerned, then*
not reaching the island means nothing. If I am
troubled, it is for then sakes. I grant to believe
them safe ; but if they arrived they could not help
us — they could not do more than we are doing,"

VOL. III. Q

said I, looking up at the bo'sun and his companion,
who were mere pygmies in the slope above.
*' Indeed, their numbers might prove fatal to us
all. Think of a hundred souls on this island !
How could they be fed "

'^ Oh but, Jack, you said that the long-boat
might be the means of saving us," interrupted
Florence.

"It may come yet," I replied evasively; for what
could I say ? how could I encourage them beyond
trying to keep their hopes up ? The facts were all
before them — the boundless ocean, our tiny rock, —
they knew our chances as well as I. I could not
do more than speak cheerfully, and animate them
by talking of our prospect of being released by a
passing ship ; but oh, my lads, it went into my
heart like a knife to see the wild, troubled, hopeless
look my darling gave me when, with her sweetheart's
eyes, she had penetrated my thoughts ; to
hear her sudden convulsive sob; to mark the quick
passionate clasp of her hands together, and the
bitter despondent droop of her sweet face upon
her bosom. I could not bear it. I sprang to her
side and held her to me. God knows what I said ;
but if they comforted her, my eager feverish assurances
had a contrary effect upon her aunt. She
burst into a miserable fit of weeping, wrung her
hands, broke out into the strangest talk about herself
; saying that she would have gladly died tomorrow

in lier bed at home could she have found
her way there instead of perishing fearfully by
degrees upon a desert island, and forced to leave
her old bones to lie upon those rocks without a
chance of Christian sepulture. This outburst did
my darling good, by fixing her attention upon
something else than our position. Grasping the
old lady, each of us, by her hands, we turned to
with all our might and main to hearten the poor
soul up. And whilst we were hard at this job,
I suddenly spied her shawl floating fair in the sky
over the hill-top, from the mast which the bo'sun
had at that moment planted.

*look, Miss Hawke !" cried I, in such a tone of
elation that I was almost deceived myself by it,
'there floats as noble a signal as was ever
made by shipwrecked people. See how the two
seamen value it ! Do you observe them waving
their caps ? " — which we could very plainly perceive,
though, if they cheered, not the faintest sound of
their voices reached us. " Every ship that passes
this island has a telescope levelled at it. That
flag — that signal there — will be as clear in the lens
nine miles distant as it is to us here, and the first
captain who sees it will instantly shift his helm to
bear down and ascertain what it means."

The poor old woman, drying her eyes, strained
them at her shawl ; but Florence, barely glancing
at it, resumed her seat on the bit of cliff, and sat

nth clasped hands and downward-fixed gaze ; and
recalling her appearance, I believe that at that
moment she had sunk to the lowest degree of
hopelessness it is possible for the living heart to
arrive at.

CHAPTER IX.

A HOPELESS POSITION.

The bo 'sun and his mate came down from the
crater-top leisurely, as if they conversed earnestly
on the road. Sometimes they'd pause to look at
the shawl, that made, alack ! but a small-enough
signal ; and then you'd see them peering out seawards
under their hands ; and now and again
they'd crouch down, as if they had come across a
vegetable and were tasting it ; and I saw them goto
where some wreaths of vapour oozed up into the
au', and take a long look at what was there. They
met with the two explorers when they were halfway
down the slope, and then, putting their faces
resolutely towards us, the four of them came dropping
and scrambling and shoving along.

It was hard upon two o'clock ; the shadow of
the northern walls lay upon the surface of the
crater-lake and midway the height of the southern
cliffs, past which the sunshine hung in splendour;
while the rugged summit, built up of defiles,

trembled in the flowing blue air. Nothing stirred
save the figures of the approaching men: the goats
had vanished, the lake stood like a huge burning
glass in the immense cup that contained it. All
that you could hear was the murmur of the surf
outside, that reached us with a dim distant sound.
The silence of the lonely mighty ocean seemed to
be enclosed within these grim primeval walls. I
ran my eye to the tops of them, and wondered to
what height they had originally reached. How
close to the sky were they when in centuries past
they hurled up fire and smoke, and cast upon
the ocean-night a glare whose fierce crimson illuminated
leagues of this dark navigated sea?
Slowly the tempests were doing their work. Bit
by bit they would crumble away the visible
summit of the enormous mountain whose base was
on the bed of the sea, till fresh convulsions in the
heart of the earth should, with horrible belching,
reconstitute the wondrous monument, and heave
far into the skies the giant rocky figure, of which
this crater in which I sat was but a feeble, mutilated,
and decaying symbol.

Well, it was but a fancy, mates ; for when those
walls were gone, I dare say mortal eyes might never
see others in their place again ; but when you get
into such a place as that, which is like the cradle
of Time, where the old chap was born, and where
maybe he retired when the sun stood still, and on

other occasions when his arrangements have been
interfered with, and when you fall to thinking of
the fire and smoke that curd was once full of, why,
outlandish fancies will seize you, more especially
when it happens that you're cast away upon it,
and never know down which of the hollow slopes
you'll spy the skeleton Death stalking, when hunger
and thirst, loneliness and exposure have done their
work with you.

The foi* men arrived, pale with heat and weariness
; they cast themselves upon the grass at the
base of the lump of rock under which the ladies
and I were sitting, and the fellows who had stayed
with us came up from the edge of the crater-lake
where the gig lay, and sat down amongst their
mates.

Desperate hard climb, that, sir," said the
bo'sun, looking up to the point where the boat's
mast stood. '^ A man needs to be all a goat to
manage the likes of them mountains."

'' There's land in sight out away to the nor-yards,"
said the sailor who had accompanied
him.

"Yes," I replied, "Amsterdam Island: about as
hospitable a rock as this. Did you see anything
that resembled a boat, bo'sun ? "

"There's ne'er a sign of 'em," he said. "Up
there ye can see all round, and, barring the bit of
land in the north, there's notion' going but sky

and water. It's queer, Mr. Seymour ; what could
have become of them ? "

'' We cannot imagine, Mr. Shilling," exclaimed
Aunt Damaris, whose eyes, from weeping, looked
like ring worms. " What do you think ? "

The bo'sun stared hard at her, and answered,
*' There's no good speculation', mum, when ye're
dealing with the ocean. There's no good in wondering',
for it don't satisfy the mind ; and if thinking'
can't do that, then what I say is, there's no use in
indulging of it."

My notion is, they've mistook the island and
gone ashore on that lump to the forwards," said
one of the men.

'' Likely enough," I exclaimed. 'did you meet
with any fresh water ? "

'eyes," said the man: 'both hot and cold.
There's a artificial well up yonder," says he,
pointing, " properly dug with spades, with near
upon half a ton o' soft water in it — shouldn't you
think that's the quantity, Joe ? "

"Ay, that's about it," replied the other of the
two explorers.

"We likewise met with three hot-water springs,"
continued the first speaker, " all lying middling
close together. Two of 'em was so hot that there
was no tasting' of 'em as they came up : so I drew
some of the water in my cap, and let it cool, and
then put my tongue to it."

'well?" said I.

Well," he said, " it isn't sweet and it ain't salt.
To my fancy it has a taste o' marine soap : summit
as fresh slater 'ud taste after ye had washed
and rinsed shirts and drawers that had been wet
through with salt water."

'' The spring that comes up middling warm is
fairly brackish," said his companion. "And yet,
at a stretch, I dunno that all three fountains
oughtn't be drunk without harm."

'' And the rain water ? " I asked.

That's right enough, sir. I dipped my hand
in, and sucked my fingers. It's good water."

'' There's another collection of fresh water up
nigh that mast," said the bossu. " We each took
a drink of it out of my mate's cap, and ye wouldn't
know it from the water in the breakers we brought
with us. But it appears to me as if these here
rain-water ponds di-y up fast. We ought to find
some means of storing what there is in 'em ; for
this weather," said he, looking up at the sky,
*may last for another month, and if there's to
be notion' for us to drink but hot water tasting'
like the risings of sailors' shirts, we'd better turn
to and think over some dodge for preserving what
is left in the artificial ponds."

"Don't talk of another month!" cried Aunt
Damaris.

"I'm only looking ahead, mum," responded the

bo' sun, Tvitli a dismal squint at the shawl on the
hill-top. It Twas but a tiny object — a barely-noticeable
thing — Viewed even from our short
distance from it ; and I saw Shilling involuntarily
shake his head as he withdrew his eyes from
it. Afraid that he might say something to
deepen the fit of despondency that had seized
my daring, I changed the subject by asking
what other reports they could give us of their
explorations. "Did you come across any vegetables
? ''

Here and there," said one of them, " we'd spa
bit of a root that might ha' passed for parsley ;
but we doesn't taste it, for fear that it might be
poisonous."

"I saw," said another, "what looked to be the
head of a carrot ; I hove it out o' the soil, but
nothing came along with it but dii-t, clinging' to a
set o' roots like the claws of a crab."

'' I observed the same object," exclaimed the
bo' sun ; " and when I hauled, notion' but dirt
came up too."

"I don't reckon," said the man who had been
his companion, " that there's anything fit to eat
in the shape of vegetables grown' upon this island.
There's plenty o' goats : the bo' sun and me
counted height, all lumped together, on the slope
away to the westwards. Something startled 'em,
and we saw them run. If they're only to be

catched by our cliasin' of 'em, I allow that they'll
keep us fasting."

They'll not be caught," said I, ''by our sitting
here wondering ]tour we are to catch them. You
seem to be settling into doleful views, my lads.
Isn't it something that you should have found
plenty of fresh water ? And on the top of that
there are goats enough to keep us in fresh meat
for six months. You say they're not to be caught.
How do you know ? It isn't sailor-fashion to give
up without trying."

Mates, Mr. Seymour is quite right," exclaimed
the bo'sun. '' We'll be more cheerful when we've
had some rest, sir."

"Well," said I, '' why don't those of you who
are dead-beaten go and lie down ? You'll find the
boat's sail in that hut there ; and here," said I,
pulling off my coat, " is a pillow for one of you ;
and there are clothes enough amongst you to make
out as many bolsters as you'll want."

On this all of them but the bos'un got up,
and went lurching and scrambling wearily to the
hut.

They'll air the building for the ladies," said
Shilling, following them with his eyes. " Poor
fellows ! they've had a tough time of it since the
night of the collision. Ladies, sorry to see ye
looking so downcast. You shouldn't think there's
much the matter vet."

'' Oh, Mr. Shilling," cried Florence, '' our prospects
are utterly hopeless ! "

'' Can't see it, miss, begin' your pardon," he
answered. 'we've only been landed a few hours,
and unless we're to suppose that a ship had caught
sight of us, and followed in our wake all last night,
it wouldn't be reasonable to expect anything to
heave in sight yet. Ye must give chance and luck
time, miss. If after exercising your patience
notion' turns up, why then Mr. Seymour here
I essay '11 agree with me that the best thing
we can do is for some of us to go away in the
gig and seek help to the forwards. There's bound
to be ships somewhere about there, voyaging to
Australia, or sailing or steaming westwards; and
I, for one, shall be quite willing to go off in the
boat, and knock about till a vessel passes by."

'' That's one chance anyway," said I, looking at
Florence. " Trust me, our prospects are not
utterly hopeless."

Pity there's notion' to make a flare of,"
exclaimed the bo'sun, leaning on his elbow and
leisurely gazing round him. "Never see a bit
of land with grass grown' on it so bare of bush
as this here blooming rock. Would it be worth
while, Mr. Seymour, stripping the roof off that
hut to make a fire of, if a sail should heave in
view?"

No, Shilling. The shelter is too valuable.

Besides, you've got to consider that this is a
volcanic island with vapour regularly oozing out
of parts of it — as you can see ; and any smoke
we made would, in my opinion, be set down as a
natural thing, having nothing to do with people
in distress."

That is quite probable," said Aunt Damaris,
cocking her eye at her shawl up in the sky.

"It's a small signal," I continued, noticing that
the bo'sun and Florence followed the old lady's
gaze ; "but small as it is, I have no doubt that in
clear weather like this, and with the aid of a good
glass, such as most ships carry, it will be distinctly'
visible at the distance of the horizon."

Well, I essay it may," said the bo'sun, speaking
as if to hide his doubts. It was plain he had
no opinion of that shawl as a signal, and was a
good deal worried and disappointed by the very
small result of his exceedingly heavy labour.

Meanwhile," said I, "we must go to work and
hind out how we are to provide ourselves with food
whilst we remain here. Be our stays short or long
we shall want to eat."

That's martin," remarked Shilling.

"We ought to be able to knock over some of
those goats with my pistol," said I. " It has five
chambers loaded, and I've got thirty or forty
cartridges in my pocket. By creeping carefully,
and watching them just before the dusk settles

down, we should be able to draw near enough to
kill one of them with a pistol."

Yes," said the bo'sun ; " but my notion is that
our best chance of getting enough to eat lays in
that water there," — pointing to the lake. " If it
ain't full of fish, and lobsters, and crabs, and the
likes of such articles of food as them, I'll smaller
my boots. The job'll be to get 'em out of the
water. There's notion' I can think of as we could
fashion into hooks."

I have some hair-pins ! " exclaimed Aunt
Damaris, putting her hand to her bonnet.

'i'm afraid they'd prove too soft to hold a fish,"
said I.

Wil you let me see 'em, mum," observed the
bo'sun.

Whereupon, to save her aunt the trouble of
removing her bonnet, Florence drew one from the
noble coil of hah* she carried under her hat. The
bo'sun worked it about with his great tarry fingers,
and then said *' he was afeard the wires prove
too pliant : still, there was no tellin' ; something
might hook himself upon it and not be able to
wriggle off; only the end 'ud want sharpening,
for this here point," said he, trying it with his
thumb, "would never pierce a fish's jaw, and it
'ud need a month's rubbing' against stone to bring
it keen. The worst of shipwreck is, it leaves folks
without conveniences. If we'd brought the carpenter's

tool-chest along with us, we'd be having
boiled fish for supper to-night, I warrant. Fain'
hooks, Mr. Seymour, the next dodge must be to
convert the boat's sail into a kind o' trawl, and
sweep the water there as deep as we can let it go.
There's no conceiving' what it might bring up."

Well, for a whole hour we thus sat talking. It
did my darling and her poor old aunt good to
listen and make suggestions, by forcing them to
exercise their minds in other ways than that of
brooding over our situation ; and I was very careful
to constantly slip in hopeful fancies, making
much of the strange absence or disappearance of
the boats, by begging my companions to consider
that, whatever the fate of the rest of the crew and
passengers might prove to be, we at all events
were safe ; we had come through a dark dangerous
night, were on solid ground, with no fear of perishing
fi'om the want of water anyway, with plenty of
food at hand which we were bound to come at
after a little thinking and planning, and enough in
the hut to last us for five or six days ; and, finally,
we were upon an island that was sighted by eighty
out of every hundred vessels sailing eastwards.
But for all that, my secret views of our prospects
were fearfully gloomy. tien I recall what I
really thought, I am amazed that I should have
been able to speak hopefully and cheerfully — I
mean, in such a manner as to convince the others

that I was sincere. I'd catch Florence studying
my face, and reading me with her sweet, anxious,
sad eyes, till I could have broken down under their
imploring, pitiful, questioning expression. Yet it
would not do to let her heart droop : the finest
spirit will sink if once the conviction comes that
there is no horde; and my struggle was to keep
hope alive before her, ay, and before her poor old
relative, whose age made her, in such a helpless
abandoned desolate condition as we were in, an
object of deep compassion. But, as I say, my
own views of our situation were so dark, that,
outside the small chance our despatching the gig
to cruise about out of sight of the island to the
north might give us, there was hardly a hope I
could form. A hundred ships at the distance often
or twelve miles might pass by; but what
means had we — if that miserably small signal on
the hill-top failed to attract their attention — of
making our existence known ? Even if smoke
could have called their notice to us, we had no
means of producing smoke. Some of us, it is
true, might start in pursuit of a sail in the gig;
but the boat's sole chance would lie in a dead calm,
that should keep the ship at rest, and enable us to
use om' oars ; and I could not forget that the prevailing
winds in summer here were northerly, so
that ships passing to the northwards of the island
and unless we climbed to the top of the crater

to keep a look-out up there, we should be unable
to see the ocean from north-west to south-east —
would have us dead to leeward of them. Our
main reliance, then, must be upon the chance of a
vessel touching at this island, or being attracted
by our little signal which was all we had to hoist ;
for the boat's sail would have hung up and down,
as would a jacket or cloak. And the odds, as I
considered, of such a stroke of luck happening
were so heavily opposed to us, that I hardly knew
how to hope, what to think ; and nothing but the
imperative obligation laid upon me by my love for
Florence, and the manhood expected from me by
her aunt, could have prevented me from sinking
into as bitterly despondent a temper as I had
noticed in my darling.

The time wore away slowly. The men lay in
the hut during the greater part of the afternoon.
I looked in upon them when I climbed, for the
second time, past the structure to search the ocean
for a sign of the boats, and could just distinguish
their figures lying upon the sail or the patches of
grass, all as motionless as corpses, though the
sound of their deep breathing rose up strong from
the ground, and made the gloom so solemn that it
]bred a kind of awe in a man to stand there and
listen. The bo'sun, after he had done talking to us,
went to the boat — to seek for something there, as
I supposed ; but losing sight of him and wondering

VOL. III. R

what on earth had become of him, I walked to the
boat, and, peering into her, found my friend dead
asleep, at full length in her bottom, with his arm
for a pillow, and his legs stretched along under the
thwarts.

When I had come down from looking at the sea
for the second time, it was with deep disappointment
and wonder. I had secretly hoped throughout
the morning, and even during the early part
of the afternoon, that some of the boats would be
heaving in sight ; but when, between half-past
three and four, I gazed into the distant blue from
a height of nearly two hundred feet, and saw
nothing, then indeed I made up my mind to
abandon all thought of counting upon the longboat
as a means of fetching us help. It was a
bitter blow, bitterer than I can express ; for though,
to be sm-e, we had brought the gig through the
rough seas of last night in safety, she was the
least fitted of all the Stratford's boats to encounter
turbulent weather. Next to the long-boat
I should have chosen one of the quarter-boats,
furnished with tubular air-tight casings ; but now
we were to be left with only the gig — a narrow,
shallow boat, in which to be sure a couple or
three of us might without much risk sail away to
a distance of thirty or forty miles to the forrard,
in fine clear weather, on the look-out for ships,
but in which we should be mad to attempt to

quit the island on the chance of being picked up
or else of sailing straight on through the hundreds
of leagues of ocean which separated us from
Africa and Australia.

All this while, Florence and Aunt Damaris
remained near the spot on which we had landed,
sometimes moving to stretch then* limbs, but for
the most part sitting on the low narrow ledge
to which I had originally conducted them. I had
them full in my sight as I came down the slope,
and the thoughts they put into me, coupled with the
wild trouble the absence of the boats occasioned,
forced me into the slowest possible movements, that
I might have leisure to calm my mind and smooth
my face before I confronted them. I asked myself.
If we are doomed to linger upon this rock, how
-are those women to manage ? They have but the
clothes in which they stand, and no means of repairing
them. What, in God's name, am I to do
for them if the period of our imprisonment should
swell from days into weeks, from weeks into months?
It was enough to raise a kind of madness in me, to
think of that. I'd look from them to the hut that
was to shelter them ; then round the precipitous
crater walls, and wonder how we were to get food ;
and all through these horrible hopeless thoughts
would run the passion of my love for the gentle
beautiful girl whose pale face looked towards me as
I approached, till the manhood in me seemed as if

it would melt away, and leave me a weeping idiots
fit only to mumble for mercy with my eyes upon
the sky.

By the time I had come to them, however, I
had got a good grip of my mind once more ; and
having found out where the bo'sun was, I went upto
Florence, took a seat beside her, and held her
hand.

All, but us three," said I, " are snoring at the
top of their pipes. Darling, you must be frightfully
tired ; and you, too, Miss Hawke. Remember
you have had no sleep for two nights."

I could not lie down upon these rocks," replied
Aunt Damaris, with a smile so painful that it was
like being wounded to see it.

No," said I ; " but the boat's sail folded would
make a soft mattress for you and Florence ; and if
you wish for rest, I'll have those fellows up there off
that sail in a trice."

My darling's fingers tightened upon mine as she
said, " I could not sleep there''

Why not? " I exclaimed. " You will sleep there
to-night. You must be under shelter."

She shuddered, but made no reply.

*rit's a mere matter of imagination," I continued.
"When you are asleep and resting peacefully,
as you will, it's all the same whether you lie
di-eating in a desolate hut like that or in your own
bedroom at home."

*' Oh, Jack, not ^Yhen the morning comes ! " she
cried.

'•' I could not sleep if I were to lie down, Mr.
Seymour," said Aunt Damaris. " I would rather
remain here, in the open air. Did you see anything
when you were up on the cliff just now."

*' Nothing."

She sighed convulsively, and turned her eyes upto
heaven with her hands clasped.

Let the night pass, let us all get what refreshment
we can find in sleep," said I, *' and tomorrow
our clearer heads will enable us to see if there
is any daylight in this situation of ours. Don't
despair. You have shown great courage, and both
of you have confronted the perils we have been
brought into with stout hearts. Besides, did you
not say you have confidence in me ? Don't dishearten
me by causing me to think you have lost
faith."

*' I have not lost faith, Jack," cried Florence,
passionately. " If there's anything a sailor could
think of to be done, you'd do it, it would come to
you. But I know you are as hopeless as aunt and
I "

No, no ! " I exclaimed.

I cannot be deceived," she continued ; " I have
watched you looking around — I have watched you
thinking : you cannot hide sour thoughts from
me." And there was such a depth of sadness

and love in the tearful eyes she fixed upon me
that the only answer I could give her right off
was to throw my arm around her and hold her to
my heart. She hid her face on my breast, and,
kissing her cheek, I looked at Aunt Damaris over
my loved one's head.

'may I feel," I said, 'that, come what may.
Miss Hawke, this girl, whom I love as never was
woman better loved, is mine with your consent ? "

She answered immediately, "Yes. You deserve
her, Mr. Seymour. I hope God may spare you and
her to come together as man and wife. I have
no doubt of your unselfish devotion. I have seen
enough to convince me that your hearts are one.

Florence's papa shall know the truth " And

then she stopped short, with a wild glance around
her.

I whispered, "You hear what your aunt says.
My sweet one, can you believe that the Almighty has
brought us together here to miserably perish ? Oh,
for His sake keep up your heart — have faith in His
love and protection. No one who knows the sea
and its chances would dream of abandoning hope
till the darkness of death itself has come down."
And then, raising my voice, " Miss Hawke, is it
not true that every shipwreck is full of miraculous
deliverance ? Look at that little boat there, and
recall the sea she carried us through last night"'
And being strangely elated by what the old lady

had said to me, and by having my daring in my
arms, I turned to and spun them all the yarns of
wonderful escapes at sea which I could think of.
Scores of them I knew : of a wave washing a man
overboard in a pitch-black night and bringing him
safely back again, setting him down tenderly on his
stern, and leaving him in peace to squeeze the salt
out of his eyes ; of five men living on the bottom
of a capsized schooner, dining and supping for six
days off barnacles and weed with a drink of beer
between whiles, which they came at by cutting a
hole in the planking and thrusting in their hands
till they arrived at a case of bottled ale ; of others
successfully performing a six-weeks' voyage in a
small open boat, their sole food during half the
time having been a dog, some flying-fish, and
a few moUemokes ; of a seaman knocking about
for four days in a lifebelt, and then being picked
up alive, and made hearty in twenty-four hom-s
by a liberal prescription of rum and roast
pork. These were but samples of the yarns I told
them, every one of them gospel-true, though as
Florence listened I'd see a gleam of incredulity
shoot into her eyes, which would set me laughing ;
for with true land-going instincts, she'd doubt the
very things which seafaring people would accept
as ordinary incidents of the marine life. Yet this
yarning was profitable work. The obligation of
thinking for stories kept me lively, and I was

listened to with interest — Aunt Damans, in particular,
often rounding off a tale by saying, "Well,
Florence, I am sure after that we have no right to
despair;" "Why, their case was far worse than ours,
certainly, and yet they were saved ! " and the like.

It was about five o'clock in the afternoon when
the bo'sun shoved his head above the gunwale of
the gig, and then stood up, stretching his arms with
a great roaring yawn. He looked about him as if
he couldn't make up his mind to believe in what he
saw in a hurry, and then, spying us, he got out of
the boat.

'Afraid I've been having a pretty long nap, sir,"
said he.

No, not very long," I replied ; " but you'll bethe
better for what you've had."

He asked me the time, which I gave him, adding
that the ladies would be wanting something to eat,
and that the men had better be roused out.

We've not been sitting here ever since, ladies,
have you ? " he asked.

Florence replied, " Yes."

I hope," said he, " it's not because there's only
the hut to use, and you wouldn't enter it whilst the
men were there. If I thought that, I'd have the
whole blooming lot of 'em out of it by the hair of
their head in a trice."

"We preferred to remain in the open air,"
observed Aunt Damaris.

'' Any signs of the boats, Mr. Seymour ? " lie
asked.

"' There was nothing to be seen when I last
looked' I answered.

He glanced up at the signal he had erected, and
then at the sky, and walked a short distance beyond
the boat, where the trend of the rocks sloping to
the breakwater would carry him past the cliff and
give him a view of the sea in the east. There
he stood for a few moments staring, and then singing
out to me, ''Xothen' in sight but blue water,
and beautifully blue it is, to be sure"' he rejoined
us. " What's the next thing to be done, sh* ? " he
asked.

I told him to rouse out the men, and bring
materials enough for supper for all hands with him,
along with wine for the ladies. This he did, and
after a few minutes the men emerged one by one
from the hut, rubbing their eyes, and stretching
themselves, and gazing around them as Shilling
had when he awoke. They gathered about us,
sitting on the gi-ass, whilst I divided the preserved
meat and biscuit, and handed Florence and her
aunt some wine, leaving the bo'sun to serve out the
rum to the men. They seemed the better for their
rest, less hollow-ej'ed, and they were brisker in
their movements. They looked concerned enough
when the bo'sun told them that neither the ladies
nor I had slept, and one of them said shyly to

Aunt Damaris, " Hope, mum, it wasn't our being
in the list as kept you out of it. We went there
because Mr. Seymour, here, told us to go ; but the
grass outside is plenty soft enough for us to lion
"

I stopped his apologies by telling him the ladies
Preferred to wait for the night to use the hut ;
and then, my lads," said I, 'it'll be for us men
to consider whether it shouldn't be occupied by
them and nobody else."

'rit don't want considering', Mr. Seymour,"
exclaimed the bo'sun; "it's a settled job. That
edifice is for the use of the ladies only, mates ;
am I right or am I wrong ? "

Eight ! " they all answered.

Florence began to remonstrate.

No, no ! " I interrupted. " We're sailors here.
We all know what's due to ladies. The men mean
that yoa and your aunt shall occupy that hut, and
you'll vex them by declining."

"Yes, you'll vex us all, miss," exclaimed the
bo'sun.

But where will you sleep ? " she asked.

"Why, on the small of our backs, miss," he
answered. " Men like us, who are accustomed to
the softest plank we can pick out in a ship's deck
for a snooze, aren't going to make much account
of a plot o' grass for a feather-bed, even though
there should be notion' under the verdure but

rock. Consider low them goats we've seen exist ;
and ye may reckon that the sailor who isn't the
equal of a goat in everything but jumping', must bethe
poorest o' poor creatures, and fit only to list asa
roger." The others murmured assent. "But,"
continued the honest fellow, " I don't know that
Mr. Seymour isn't entitled to a corner of that hut,
say the part close 'alongside the door. You see,
ladies, 'cording to his own account he's knocked wolf
the sea now three year and more ; in that time
you may take it a good lump of shore-going
generation has got mixed up in his blood, his
hands have growed white, and the smell of the
tar-bucket has pretty nigh gone off him. Consequently
he's not to be treated like these here
out-an'-outers," — pointing among the men, who
grinned broadly to the compliment ; " and if you
can spare him a bit of that old roof yonder, just to
keep the doo off his face, I dare say ye'll find him
thankful for your kindness."

Florence smiled, and Aunt Damaris said, " I
certainly couldn't dream of sleeping with my niece
alone in that dreadful hut, Mr. Shilling. I could
only consent to use it on condition that Mr.
Seymour is with us."

Well, that clinches it, anyway," said the bo'sun,
looking at me gravely.

Will any watches be kept going ? " asked one
of the men.

That is as you please," I answered. " As we
have no means of making our existence known by
night-signals, I don't see that any good can be
done by keeping a look-out. It's a mighty pity,
Shilling, that Captain Thompson, in ordering the
boats to be victualled, should have forgotten to give
us rockets and blue lights."

There was an armful put into the long-boat,"
said one of the men.

But none in the gig," I exclaimed. " Perhaps
he never doubted that the boats would fetch this
island, in which case the long-boat's stock would
do for all."

There's always something forgot in these here
cases that's terribly missed when it's too late,"
observed the bo'sun.

'* To return to the question of watches," said I.
'' There's plenty to look out for, but there's
nothing to signal with. I don't know, therefore,
that a regular look-out is necessary. On and off
you'll be awake through the night, as I shall ; and
any man who wakes up can do no harm by taking
a look round."

I fancy that'll be all that's necessary, sir,"
remarked the bo'sun, with a despondent squint
at the shawl flying on the eminence above the
slope.

One of you will please get the lamp trimmed,
ready for lighting in the hut," said I. *' And now.

my lads, if 3'ou feel up to the mark, after your
.vest, you can't better I'll the time than by looking
about you for a sheltered nook to lie in during the
night ; and some of you might overhaul these
rocks here, round that lake, for crabs or anything
else eatable ; whilst others can't do better
than make another exploring trip. Where's my
coat?"

'' In the hut, sii*," answered one of the men.

I desired him to fetch it, and when he had
returned I pulled out the pistol and gave it to the
bo'sun, telling him it might be worth his while to
try his hand upon a goat with it. He might drop
upon one unawares, I said, and if he could kill it,
it would be a valuable addition to our stock of
provisions. The men seemed to relish this programme.
Two hours stood between us and
sundown, sleep had freshened them, and the
interest of groping and hunting al)out would keep
up their spirits even if no more serviceable result
followed. As for myself, mental suffering and the
want of rest had left me fairly exhausted, and such
was my painful and distressing lassitude, that had
my life depended upon my climbing a couple of
hundred feet of those rocks I must have perished,
for the task would have been utterly beyond me.
Puling out sticks of tobacco, the men proceeded
to cut pieces of the stuff into their tar-stained
hands and load their* pipes ; then, emptying the

]3annikin of rum-and-water amongst them, they
got on to their feet and dispersed in couples, leaving
Florence and Ait Damaris and myself in the
place we had hung about pretty nearly the whole
of that long miserable day.

Chapter X.

SOLITUDE.

Slowly the sun pestered, going down right astern
of the island, until the whole shadow of the crater
was upon its own lake, and you saw the red tinge
in the sky, up past the high volcanic walls,
melting easterly into glorious liquid blue with nota
cloud to sully the exquisite tinge of it. The lake
took a gray gleam in the shadow, but trembling
into it was the sunset colour* overhead, that came
floating down more like haze than irradiation, so
that the gray tint appeared to be under the faint
flush instead of mixed up with it, and the steely
light rose fair off the face of the sheet of water,
striking clear through the warm rosiness of the
atmosphere. It was then the stillest scene mortal
eye ever looked upon : not a tremor was there in
the lake ; not a sound in the air, if you save the
distant low washing hum of surf that was more
like the silence making itself heard than noise
itself. Gradually the dusk came stealing out of
the ocean confronted by the entrance to the

island ; and we had twilight in the heart of that
deep cup, and the pale glimmer that night flings
upon water was on the lake when the sky was still
blue with daylight above us.

The first of the men to return was the bo'sun.
He said, as he gave me back my pistol, that all the
goats he could see were at the northernmost end of
the island, down hill, and not hard to come at, he
dared say, if it hadn't been that he didn't relish
the prospect of the climb back in the eye of the
coming dusk. " But I've got no doubt in my own
mind," he added, "that they're to be catched by
our breaking' of ourselves up into hunting parties,
nth you in the centre lying hid to shoot 'em as
they're drove your way."

Presently the others arrived, one of them
carrying an immense crab, which he let drop into
a deepest hole in the cliff near us, saying that it
would lie there snug till the morning, and could
then be cooked in one of the hot springs, and that
he only brought it along as a sample, for there
were scores of the like of it knocking about among
the rocks over yonder, — pointing to the edge of the
lake in the north-west, about a quarter of a mile
distant. This was the best piece of news that had
been given us that day.

'miss Hawke," said I, 'florence, my darling,
let me conduct you now to that hut, and see you
comfortably stwoed away for the night."

In the twilight I saw the old lady turn her face
towards the dismal shanty : whilst my darling, with
something of a convulsive gesture, passed her hand
through my arm.

I suppose we must lie down there — there's no
help for it," said x\unt Damaris, in a vibratory
voice. And so speaking, she rose up. I requested
the ho'sun to give her a hand to comb the slope
that stretched betwixt us and the hut, and they
slowly moved off, Florence and I following.

"You'll not leave us alone there, Jack?"
moaned my poor frightened pet. " Oh, I'd a
thousand times rather remain awake all night and
keep here, out of doors, with you ! "

''My sweet gnl, you want rest; you'll breakdown
if you don't get some sleep," I answered.
*' You're not a rough sailor who can throw himself
down on the grass here, and fall a-snoring without
thought of the animals that may crawl into his
ears and the lumps of stone that may fit in under
his shoulder-blades. Already the dew is heavy, and
in an hour or two the grass will be as wet as if a
thunder-shower had passed. The hut will keep
you clear of the damp, and there is nothing to fear
in the old shanty itself."

She said no more ; but, all the time, I could see

she recoiled from the idea of lying in that grim

dark hole of a structure ; it was a sort of grave,

I believe, in her sight, — a place where shipwrecked

VOL. in. s

men bad died ; and a hundred times over, I know,
would she rather have kept awake all that night
out in the open, and seen the stars clear over her,
than have put that roof betwixt her and their light.
But it was out of the question, in my opinion, and
that was enough for me, who valued her life and
health many times above mine ; and I think she
felt the sort of command my love lay upon her, by
the way she stopped reasoning, and climbed at
my side up the slope after her aunt.

The lamp was alight in the hut, and the fellow
who had trimmed it had slung it to a rusty old
nail that was half buried in the wall near the door.
Up in a corner were our provisions, a fearfully
slender stock for nine of us, and quite enough to
make a man's heart cold in him to see. The boat's
sail lay stretched upon the dark ground, and that
was the whole of the furniture in that hut. The
bo'sun and I picked it up, and doubled it over so
that one half would serve as a cover and the other
as a mattress ; I then made a pillow of my jacket
and of Florence's waterproof cloak : and this being
all that could be manufactured in the shape of a
bed, I asked them to lie down, and I would cover
them with the half of the sail.

"Heaven preserve us, what a bedroom! " cried
Aunt Damaris, gazing around her with horror.

"Jack," exclaimed Florence, "how are you going
to sleep ? You cannot lie upon this hard ground."

'' I shall take a snooze Hindoo-fashion," said I :
"by squatting. There's a soft corner there," —
pointing to the right of the door; "and I shall
sit in it like a Chinese joss, and dream that I am
being worshipped."

If a man could take turn and turn about with
them there posies," exclaimed the bo'sun, grinning,
*i'm one as 'ud volunteer fast enough for the
job. Why, sir, they're made holler, and the
people as goes to chapel to 'em fills 'em up with
offerings, such as earrings and brooches, and
valuables of that kind. I'd be a Josh and welcome.
But what d'ye want to sit up iu that corner for,
Mr. Seymour ? There's a fair patch o' grass under
sour feet where you're standing now. Couldn't
you lay down on that, with your elbow for a
pillow •? "

Oh, I'll manage somehow or other ; don't trouble
about me, Shilling," I replied. " Now, Miss Hawke,
pray set Florence an example by lying down.
Once you are on the soil you'll both faU sound
asleep."

*' You have given me your coat," said my darling.

"Because you want a pillow, and the coat
smothers me, my pet," I answered.

She looked as if she would beg me to take the

coat, but I held up my hand in deprecation of her

entreaty, so she hung her head, and stood without

^ speaking. Aunt Damaris took off her bonnet.

and, putting on her cloak, pulled the hood of it
over her head ; then steeped upon the sail and
sat down. I asked Florence to let me remove her
hat, but she did this herself, and, getting on to the
sail, placed herself alongside her aunt. They then
lay back, and I snugged the half of the sail over
them ; but my heart was made so full by the sight
of them upon the hard ground, with nothing
between them and it but the sail, that I could
barely falter out, " God bless you both — goodnight,"
and turned hastily to join the bo'sun, who
stood in the door.

Poor ladies ! " he mumbled in a low voice.
Fond as ye are of the sweetest of 'em, sir, it's a
bitter hard trial to you, I reckon. But it might
ha' been worse, Mr. Seymour. It's a shelter anyway
; though — may the Lord deliver us ! — the
mummies of the kind as ever I see."

Why, it comes home to me, as you say,
Shilling," I exclaimed, *not only because one of
them is my sweetheart, and the other an old lady,
but because they're both accustomed to all the
comforts and luxuries that money can buy, and
less fitted than scores of other folks to endure such
hardships as these. Great God ! " I muttered,
with a glance at them, "what a leveller is shipwreck,
bo'sun ! It's next to death in the power
of killing distinctions."

Well, Mr. Seymour," said he, '* take my advice

now, and turn to and get some rest yourself.
We've had no sleep for two nights and three days,
and we don't want you to break down, for if we're
to get out o* this cursed mess it'll be you that'll
show us the road. If you think you're likely to
miss your jacket you're welcome to my vestcoat,
sir. These here sleeves'll keep your arms warm"'

I thanked him heartily, but declined his offer,
bidding him remember that I should lie under
shelter, whereas he was to find a bed among the
rocks.

"Well, good night, sir. No use," said he, '*of
worrying ourselves with talking' over our chances
and what's to be 'done. I'll go and see where the
men are. Some of us "ud better hang near the
boat, I think, to mind that she don't break away in
the night."

"Ay," said I, " see to that, for Heaven's sake."

We shook hands, and he went away. I felt it
was a hard necessity indeed that put these poor
fellows upon sleeping out in the damp : but it was
their own wish ; I doubt if I could have persuaded
the bo'sun to use the hut, and if he declined the
others would have gone on refusing. And then,
again, the fear that Florence and her aunt would
have stubbornly objected to lie down amidst the seamen,
and thus through the reasonable prejudice of
an insurmountable instinct of delicacy, or modesty,
or whatever you like, have given the men offence.

lead weighed greatly with me. At all events my
darling was first : it was better that the sailors
should suffer than she ; and even if she had consented
to occupy the hut with the seamen, the
suffering her sense of delicacy must have endured
from the participation would have been an intolerable
thing for me to notice through the night
without being able to relieve it.

They both lay very still. I should have been
glad' to slip out and take a look around me, but
they were awake, and would be alarmed if I quitted
them ; so, ver' quietly, I sat myself down in the
corner I had fixed upon, where the wall propped
up my back, and, stretching out my legs and folding
my arms, dropped my chin on my breast and
shut my eyes. Painfully' wearied I was ; my eyelids
weighed like lead; but a long while passed
before I dosed. I heard the faint hum of the surf ;
and the threadlike breathing from the sail. It
was a fearful silence to listen to with the sense in
you of being on a little rock amid leagues of ocean,
whose surf washed the shores of remote parts of
the world. It affected me like a nightmare rather
than a real thing, when I thought who it was that
made one of those two figures lying there. Oh, it
seemed cruel, it broke into my heart with agony
in the blow, to realize that she whom I loved
so tenderly, the sweetest, the gentlest of God's
creatures, my fair and tender flower, needing all

that care and comfort could do for her, should be
finding a bed upon the hard ground, a shelter
under the filthy squalid roof of a hut, erected by
God knows whom, and for what purpose, with such
a prospect of continued hardship before her, if
succour should be delayed or did not come, that
I dared not think into it, to follow it for even a
little distance. What had become of the other
boats ? Suppose Morecombe were in my place,
and I had never taken this voyage ? If we were
spared, how would old Hawke receive me ? These
and a hundred such conjectures and speculations
and fancies trooped through my mind till nature
could hold out no longer, and sitting there in my
shirt-sleeves, with my arms folded, and the lamp
shining dimly upon the motionless figures under
the sail, I fell into a deep and di-earless sleep.

I awoke in a fit of amazement to find myself
sprawling on my side. Dead sleepy I must have
been not to be aroused b}' the gradual sliding of
my shoulders along the wall till I had fairly
capsized, as though I had really been an old
wooden idol. I was tolerably stiff, and sat rubbing
myself awhile, blinking at the lamp, that burned
very faintly and barely disclosed the outline of
the figures under the sail. I pulled out my watch
and approached the light, and found the time a
quarter past two, so that for five hours, at all
events, I had slept as soundly as if I had been

mounted on a comfortable spring mattress, and
with no other inconvenience than a numbness in
the legs that speedily gave way to my rubbing.
I bent over Aunt Damaris and Florence, and could
just discern enough of their faces to perceive that
they were sound asleep, the best proof of which
was in their quiet regular respirations. My own
slumber had wonderfully refreshed me. Picking
up my cap and treading very softly, I stepped out
of the hut, wishing to satisfy my mind by a look
round. One felt the difference of the temperature
outside ; I found that the light wind had settled
away into the eastward, and blew gently, fair over
the breakwater, into the volcanic hollow. The
darkness was marvellously fine and clear with the
starlight, that floated down in a perfect gush of
luminous haze into the cylindrical crater-walls, and
the lake gave it back with a dim sheen that made
it look like polished steel down there, glimmering
in the gloom. The sky resembled a circle of black
velvet ablaze with stars. There was not a fragment
of vapour to obscure them. Up past the
brighter stars the luminaries hung in folds of silver
dust, with patches of light hove up on them shaped
like comets, most of the larger orbs of an exquisite
flashing pale blue, though amidst them was many
a sparkling speck of rose, and one shone a vivid
green on the brow of a crag in the west. All this
starry glory went bright and keen past the summits

of the cliffs, and made the blackness of them loom
up till they seemed miles high, and stretching
backwards God knows how far. You'd notice the
pale flicker on the lake this side the breakwater,
where the wind set it running, but it melted into
the still and silent gleam after measuring a few
fathoms, and there was no other movement. It
was as though the silence in the island was a
weight that crushed all stirring things motionless ;
one's very heart was sensible of the pressure of it
as a ponderous rebuke to its beating ; and one's
breathing came and went in a kind of stifling, as the
hearing felt around the starlit dusk for something
to relieve the enormous hush, and heard nothing
but the ceaseless moaning hum of the surf outside.
My sight speedily grew accustomed to the gloom,
and very carefully I made my way to that part of
the horn of cliff' I had before looked forth upon
the sea from, groping cautiously with hands and
feet, and often pausing to listen for I know not
what, and to peer backwards for the sight of the
figure of one of our men. Coming at last to a
remembered point, I sat down on the edge of the
cliff, that went with a slope into the darkness
below for a hundred and fifty feet, with the ninepin-shaped
rock right opposite — an ugly lumpish block,
black as ink, upon the faint starry sheen upon the
ocean. Poets may write of the feeling of loneliness
that is bred in a man who is solitary in

crowds ; but hang me if they'd talk in that style
had they perched themselves on the edge of that
fall of volcanic cliff as I did, and stared away into
the liquid indigo that ran up to the stars over the
crater-line. Loneliness ! why, when I put my
mind upon that ocean, and considered how msmj
leagues of it there were there, I felt to be hove
clear of the familiar globe altogether, to be
poised somewhere betwixt the stars and the earth
where there was nothing but eternal gloom and
eternal stillness, faintly broken maybe by the
rushing of spirit-wings, just as I'd hear the wind
softly pouring with a moaning and a rustling
against the cliff I overlooked and among the
rocks, that soared up in a sloping tower of ink
behind me, with such a mystification of gloom in
them that they showed like an immense mountain-even
the stars which I knew so well took an
unfamiliar aspect through the inexpressible sense
of loneliness that was put into me. One could
almost fancy one looked at them from some other
planet than om-s, so bright and yet so distant they
seemed, with the wan flicker of meteors sailing
among them, and the dark sea hollow beneath.
Up past the edge of the cliff the sound of the surf
came with a clearer edge ; there was a gurgling
and sobbing noise of water about the ninepin rock,
and a faint seething stole along all the way to the
left of me, where the base of the island rounded

into the north and east. Look as I would, there
was nothing to be seen. And I did look, God
knows, with the intensity of a man who feels that
his life depends upon his eyes : yet I don't know
that I was greatly troubled by seeing nothing ; my
mind was in a manner subdued and numbed by
the wonder of the vast dark lonely silence amid
which I seemed to feel myself the only sentient
thing. I'd glance away from the ocean to the
towering heights of the ebony crater-walls, which
swept in a circle, or nearly a circle, under the
stars, taking in then* light only to fling what
illumination there was in it upon the lake ; and
the grey dim gleam of tJiat in the huge cup shaped
shadow was enough to put the sweat upon a man's
forehead, and to set his mind roaming horribly.

It is not everywhere that you can realize distance ;
but in this island of St. Paul's you may most
startlingly, as I know by experience ; for you have
but to climb a bit to get a whole view of the rock
with the sea circling it ; and when you are alone
at night upon it, and there is no sound but the
surf or the planning of the wind in a crevice you
can't see, and the lake glimmers back the starlight
in a dull faint surface of luminous gray, the
immensity of the deep in the middle of which you
stand is a crushingly realizable thing. You look
eastwards, and the imagination rushes through the
darkness for hundreds upon hundreds of miles to

the distant Australian coast ; northwards, to the
far-off shores washed hy the Arabian Sea and the
Bay of Bengal ; southwards, to where the fields of
giant kelp are hurled against the ice-harrier past
which, so one dreams, the sea-lion and the walrus,
the penguin and the albatross have their home ;
westwards, beyond the African Cape to the bleak
and roaring ocean that divides the Horn fi'om the
South Shetlands. "Well, I can say that the chart
of it all was in my brain as I stood peering at the
dim sea and then at the black heights, till the
fearful liquid immensity that gloomed round this
point of rock, that had day and night u^Don
either extremity of its spacious sm-face at one time,
frightened my fancy into nightmares. Dreams of
wrecks which had happened here rose in me ; then
I'd think of the castaways who had died in the
island, along with other womanly hysterical things
of the like kind ; and I remember fancying that
this volcanic rock, that once filled the sky with
blood-red light, had stood in the ocean ever since
the day when God created the earth out of the
ebony void that sounded me, and that it was
the Almighty's record of the date of the creation
written upon the bosom of the deep, upon the
greatest of all the ocean-stretches ; and being on
it, why, I shivered to think of what it signified :
an awe fell upon me as though I stood upon
ground which, like the holy mount in the Scriptures,

had known the visible presence of the
King of kings : and for some minutes such a spell
seized hold of me as might have bereft a man,
capable of deeper thinking and higher imaginings
than I, of his brains. It was all mystery and
gloom, with the stars looking down into a huge
cup of rock that stored memories which forced
the mind back to a time when this earth rolled
out of space, black and silent and without life upon
it; with the sound of the surf moaning athwart
the night wind that went with a wail past the
ear, and the dark sea vanishing in a distance that
would make the soul of a castaway man recoil
from the meaning of it. To this hour, when I
think of what came into my head as I crouched
upon the cliff-edge, peering here and there, I
feel the damp in the palms of my hands, and my
heart beats as fast as a baby's.

With a determined breaking away from the
horrible mood that was fast growing and deepening
in me, I crept down again to the hut; and the
moment I gained it, and saw the outlines of
my darling and her aunt, and the rude interior,
dim in the waning lamp-light, relief came to me :
]put in such a way that it nearly unmanned me ;
and I am not ashamed, mates, to tell you that,
when I crouched in the corner afresh, I hid my
face in my hands, and felt that if I could have
turned to and had a hearty good blubber it would
have done me a deal of good.

CHAPTEK XI.

HELP.

Sitting in the corner of that hut, I closed my eyes,
and after a middling long spell of wakefulness fell
asleep. Dead tired I must have been, to slumber
in such a posture as that. I Twas not fresh from a
sailor's life, remember ; three years of shore-going
ease had made me as used to comfort as if I had
never quitted it for wet and stormy watches and
briny mahogany; and yet now, as before, I fell
asleep with a perpendicular rubble wall for a
mattress, and my shirt-sleeves for a blanket, as
easily as if I had stepped from the Stratford's
forecastle, where, as in any other ship, a man
would learn to find as comfortable a bed in the
foretop as under the lee of the long-boat with one
of the pigs for a pillow But one had only to
think of Aunt Damaris and Florence asleep in that
hut, under a boat's sail, to guess what shipwreck
and weariness will do for the most delicate of us.
My slumber this time was no longer dreamless. I

think I must have passed through half a dozen
of nightmares. My recent look round, and all the
wild thoughts which had come into my head out of
the dark island and the loneliness and the stillness,
had capsized my mind, and, maybe, taking
advantage of my being asleep to right itself, it
tumbled and floundered and laboured so that, if
I didn't screech out as a man will who dreams
horribly, it was, I dare say, because I was rendered
breathless by the hair-stirring visions that passed
before me. ">\^hat was their nature, d'ye ask ?
Oh, it was just a caldron of hideous things, all
boiling and simmering and poppling together in
it, coming up in the froth and going down, like
potatoes cooking; delirious echoes of my recent
waking thoughts : just as, if you shut sour eyes
after looking at a flashing light, you'll see a score
of ghastly fires burning in the darkness, one after
another, and coming up again, too, when you
thought you had seen the last of them.

I was in the throes of one of these visions when
a hand was laid on my shoulder; the touch was
in accord with a part of my dream that made the
grab of human fingers a essential thing; and
such was the effect of it upon me, that I sprang
like a harlequin to my feet with a loud cry. My
shout was re-echoed by Florence, and Aunt Damaris
rose hastily out of the sail.

** My God, Mr. Seymour, sir, collect your mind ! "

said a gruff voice at my elbow ; and rubbing my
eyes furiously, I turned and confronted the bo'sun.
There was still a little flame left in the lamp, and
the grey dawn hung like a pale mist outside the
door against the cliff-side. " Mr. Seymour ! "
exclaimed the bo'sun, doubtful whether I was yet
awake. But I was wide awake now, and I asked
him what was the matter. His voice trembled ashe
said, '* There's a brig brought up off the
island."

What"' I shouted, lifting my arms and keeping
them upraised.

He sprang to my side and grasped my hand.
"Ay," he cried in a hurricane note, 'ras I live
to speak it, there's a brig brought up oft" the
entrance. She's within reach of our voices. I've
left the men hailing her to bring ye the news. Oh,
ladies, we'll be homeward bound now ! Hurrah !
hurrah ! "

I jumped to the door, but was arrested by a
shriek from Florence. *' Don't leave us. Jack !
don't leave us ! take us with you."

Heaven alone knows whether in that wild
moment my darling imagined I meant to dash
down to the brig, spring aboard her, and sail away
to Bristol alone. But I never thought to ask; I
ran to her side, helped her off the sail, gave her
her hat and her waterproof, and tumbled myself
into my own coat, whilst Aunt Damaris fought

and struggled with her bonnet and cloak, and the
bo'sun in the doorway stood roaring out : "It was
Jim Bailey who spied her first. eye all lay last
night close to the gig — near to where you ladies
was sitting' yesterday ; Jim says he roused up
and took a look seawards and spied her. Then he
kicks us all round in his excitement to rouse us up,
singing out that there was a brig. We all jumped
up, and there sure enough she was. We see her
close to and black again' the faintness in the least.
She lies with lier taw-sails and foresail clewed up
and port anchor down, waiting' for daylight, I
allow, to send a boat ashore. She's a small brig,
'bout two hundred tons. Her foretop-gallon mast's
gone, an' I reckon she's in ballast by her height o'
side''

Cut along to the others," I bawled to him.
*•' See what they are about. Send a couple of
hands in the gig to her. No ! hold on with the gig !
Get along and be with them. We'll be with you in
an instant ! " And off he ran.

I trembled with excitement, and had difficulty in
speaking. Fresh as I was from nightmare, I
could hardly yet realize the significance of the
bo'sun's news, unless it was to regard it as a continuation
of my horrible visions, to be rendered by
disappointment the most dreadful of them all.
Within a few moments of the bo' sun's departure I
had my sweetheart's and her aunt's hands in mine,

VOL. nr. T

in hot pursuit of him : hot in spirit, I mean, though,
thanks to the old lady, our legs were miserable
slow. The light of the breaking day was thrilling
into the gloom, and brightening fast along the pure
and cloudless sky above the cliffs ; but their shadow
was still upon their own slopes, and the darkness
in the water yielded so slowly to the dawn, that
one would have thought it was down through this
craggy hollow that the hag Night vanished when
the flush of pink in the East warned her that her
reign was over. Carefully we had to pick our way
for fear of a fall. Was it my own or their pulse
that throbbed in the clutch of my fingers ? We
had no word to say to one another. The moment
we were clear of the hut I could see the men
standing in a group on the breakwater, with their
faces looking towards a part of the sea that the
trend of the horn of cliff on our left made invisible
to us : and they riveted my eyes. The bo'sun had
just joined them, in time to hear a hail from the
vessel, as I might judge by his holding up his arm,
and bawling out some answer, but what it was I
could not catch. In a few minutes we were among
the sailors, and then we saw the brig.

I looked at her, breathing fast, still holding the
hands of the women. The rim of the sun was
just showing above the water, flinging a glorious
sparkling beam through the rosy mist which the
calm sea reflected from the sky, that was burning

With rose aud gold above the luminary till the
fellow reached the zenith, where it melted into
blue ; and that beam seemed to come like a
flaming wand out of the east, to show us the brig
lying within musket-shot of the shore, heaving
very softly upon the exceedingly light swell, and
sending to our ears the sound of the flapping of
canvas and the music of running gear hastened
and slackened in blocks by the rolling. Light
she was and clearly in ballast — a round bowed
clumsy old timber waggon, with a big bow i3ort,
a stump main topgallant mast, her sails hanging
in the clewlmes ; and evidence, in a fragment of
foretop-gallant mast standing jagged above the
topmast cross-trees, of her having been in a mess
of some kind or other. A couple of deck-houses
showed above her bulwarks, and over the rail
betwixt the main rigging and the fore deck-house
was a knot of heads, with a fellow standing upholding
on to a shroud. To understand the feelings
put into me — put into us all — by the sight of her,
you need to be shipwrecked upon an island in the
middle of the biggest ocean in the world, to have
passed many hours in bitter despairs contemplation
of the future, and whilst not even daring to
dream of a rescue, to find all at once succour at
hand. One saw the effect of it upon the women ;
for several moments Aunt Damaris and my darling
stood staring at the brig without speaking, and I

seemed to feci them thinking in the tremor and
the spasmodic etchings of their fingers upon
mine ; then, as if it had taken her that time to
understand the meaning of the vessel at anchor
out there, the old lady let go of me, clasped her
hands above her face, and uttered a dozen mid
extravagant exclamations of rapturous delight,
^vhich in print would look sheer imbecility, though,
God knows they were as appropriate to that
moment as a prayer is to a church. She thresher
arms round my neck, and hugged me without
kissing me, left me to grasp the bo'sun's hands,
shook hands with several of the others, all the
time calling out and thanking God, and springing
about in her old joy, and finally threw herself into
Florence's arms and stood apart with her, both
heartily crying, which was the best thing they
could do, for the heart will be dangerously full at
such moments as these.

All this takes time to relate, but it happened
quickly ; and from me, too, the wonder and almost
paralyzing joy the sight of the brig had raised
passed rapidly. I said to the bo'sun, *rare they
English ? "

Yes, sir ; anyway they answer in English."

*' What have they been saying ? "

They've lost their boats, and have asked us ta
board them."

Then," cried I, "jump into the gig, three of

sou, and go you along ^vitli ber, Shilling, and
bring off the captain or mate, or whoever may be
in charge, that I may give him om story."

This was done aL once ; three fellows hopped
into the gig, the bo'sun jumped into the stern -
sheets, and shoving off, out they steeped through
the bar and headed for the brig. I then ordered
the two men who remained with us to go up to thu
hut and fetch all the provisions and drink that
they could carry in then arms. They obeyed
smartly, and no sooner were Aunt Damaris and
Florence and I alone, when my darling came tome.
I could not help myself; the moment she
was near me, and I saw the love in her gaze, and
hope and joy bright on her face, I folded her in
my arms, and kissed her again and again, whilst
her aunt looked fi'om us to the brig, from the
brig to us with such rolling eyes that they seemed
to dance in her head with the transports that
filled her. The instant I let my sweetheart have
her breath, she fired twenty questions into me :
** Would the brig save us ? " '* Was she likely to sail
away without us ? " " Where would she carry us to
if she took us off' the island? " and so forth.

*''No fear," said I, fondling her; *' she'll save
us." And going up to the old lady, I took her hand
and kissed it. 'miss Hawke," said I, "yonder
vessel proves that God has watched over us. My
words to Florence have come true : I told her that

"sve slioulcl not be left to miserably perish here.
But who could have believed that our imprisonment
would only last a day and a night ? " and I looked
up at the shawl that hung in the motionless
atmosphere an almost invisible thing upon the
mast on the hill-top, and thought of the dreadful
feeling of hopelessness with which I had watched
it on the preceding day.

"Yes, Mr. Seymour," she exclaimed, 'who could
have believed it ? Not I, for one. I never dreamt
that we should escape. Oh, what a fearful time we
have passed through ! When shall we go on board
the vessel ? "

I hope as soon as I have had a talk with the
captain of her."

'' Let it be soon, dear Mr. Seymour," she cried;,
*' my feet yearn to leave this horrid rock. I feel as
if I could jump from here to the ship."

You shan't be kept waiting if I can help it,"
said I. '' Strange that I did not sight her last night.
The breeze was light, and she must have been near
the island when I turned out to take a look round,
or she could not have fetched that anchorage at
daybreak. Probably she came up from the northwest
— a part of the sea out of my view up where I
posted myself. Did you sleep well, Miss Hawke ? "

"Quite soundly," she replied. Florence also
said she had slept well, and neither of them seemed
the worse for the hard bed they had lain on.

Apparently' we were to have another brilliant calm
day. The sun had risen clear of the sea, and was
shining white in the blue, levelling its glorious
flood of silver into the hollow crater through the
entrance facing east, and flashing up the water of
the lake till the strong light seemed to float off it
and make a veil through which you caught a
glimpse of the blocks and crags of rock tutored
this side its circular margin. The boat was alongside
the brig, and the bo'sun had clambered over
the rail. The sound of the voices of the fellows in
the gig, talking to some men hanging over the
vessel's rail, came very clear along the oil-like
azure glint. Presently the two sailors arrived
from the hut, bearing what provisions and bottles
they could carry. I made them set the things
down, and the five of us went to breakfast, leaving
the others to take their meal when they arrived.
But Florence and her aunt could only make a show
of eating : they were too deeply moved and excited
to feel hungry. Mates, I declare that the horrible
mess the collision had hove us into was almost
worth enduring for the sake of seeing the life and
hope and delight of my darling stealing and
brightening out of her loveliness now that help
was come. She could not downright smile, perhaps,
because remembrance and what had now
happened held between them too much of the
pathos that goes to the making of a sadness that's

as much pleasure as grief to allow happiness to
depict itself in that way in her ; but the light of
her heart, that had opened like a flower since the
dawn broke, lay on her sweet and adorable face ;
every glance she gave me was a look of deepest
love ; and could I have had my way, such was my
passion of gratitude and happiness, I'd have taken
her hand and climbed with her to vivere God's
heaven would show visible all round, and knelt
with her there alone and thanked Him. It would
have been a prayer for us two sweethearts to
remember in after years — a thanksgiving to God
close to the sky, upon a rock where His presence
was felt in a sense no church nor cathedral could
reach up to, amid the mighty solitude of the boundless
ocean. But I could not carry her off alone for
such a purpose, and so I said nothing about it ;
but often have I regretted since that she and I
missed the prayer we could have put up in that
way, and the memory that would have been born
of it.

We were eating and talking, asking the men how
they had slept, speculating about the reason the
brig had in calling at this island, making conjectures
about the other boats, and so on, when we
heard the splash of oars and the creak of rowlocks,
and saw the gig making for the breakwater with a
stranger seated alongside the bo'sun. He was a
square-shouldered, burnt-up seaman, apparently

a forecastle hand, dressed in an old Scotch cap
and a well-worn jersey. He stared hard at us, as
if the sight of the ladies surprised him ; and when
he got out of the boat he followed the bo'sun with
the most rolling walk I ever saw in a seafaring
man.

'this is Mr. Seymour," said the bo'sun, indicating
me to him, " the passenger as had charge of
the boat ; and these here are the ladies," — as if
the fellow could not see that for himself. Then
addressing me, he said, " This man's the oldest
hand aboard the brig, and kind of action' captain
like. There's no boss but him. It's been a bad
job for 'em all. Bat he'll tell you the story, sir,
with your leave, while me and the others gets
something to eat."

I gave the seaman my hand, saying, " I don't
know what your story may be, but by bringing this
brig here you're delivering us from a frightful
position, as you may guess it to be if you cast yom*
eye around you ; and we are thankful to Almighty
God that you have come."

And so saying, I shook him heartily by the hand,
and was followed in that business by Aunt Damaris
and Florence, whose thanks and tearful voices
seemed to cast what mind he had brought with
him altogether adrift, and all he could do was
to work away at his Scotch cap and mutter something
about its being a stroke of luck both ways.

not one's modern another's"' and eye me dull'.
I knew this man, by a glance at him, to be of a
class of seamen who cannot talk without being
questioned, so forthwith I began —

"What's your name, my man, so that I may
know how to converse with you ? "

'william Somers, sir," he replied.

I suppose the bo'sun has told you our story 9 "

"Yes, sir. You're a portion of the crew and
passengers of the Stratlunore, lost in a collision
three nights agone, and was landed here yesterday
morning."

Ay ; and what brig is that ? "

"The Sarah Jane, sir; in ballast, bound from
the Cape o' Good Hope to Wellington, New Zealand,
from which port she sailed for Table Bay
with a cargo of timber. Three weeks ago we
was drove low south by a hurricane from the
nor-east. We hove to under bare poles, and
drifted like a balloon, sir. Same night o' the
gale a sea broke over the vessel, and washed the
capon overboard, and he was drowned. It likewise
broke the leg of a man by flinging him again'
the lee bulwarks. It washed another man aft, and
injured him internally. Them two have been
disabled ever since. There was a man ill at the
time with some kind o' fever ; he took worse after
the gale had blowed itself out, and died, and we
buried him. Then last week the mate — he's an

only mate" sir, — ^iio'd been ailing for some time,
bad to keep his bunk. He's been too ill to navigate
the brig, and I fear his time's nearly up, for there's
no medicine aboard the TS'essel, and he don't seem
to know what his complaint is."

How many men are there to work the brig ? "
He fell to counting on his fingers : " There war
seven of a crew, hexcludin' the capon and mate.
Two ill and one gone leaves four ; one of 'em, the
cook, who's no good aloft, and another, a boy."
'•' Are you capable of navigating the vessel ? "
'' No, sir."

Then how did you make your way here ? "
"Why, the mate gave me the course, and we
steered and took om* chance''

*' But what made you head for this island ? "
The mate hoped we might find help. He'd
heard of vessels calling' here, and trusted to get
physic to do him good, likewise a couple of hands
to assist in working the brig, and some one willing'
to carry her to where she belongs — Wellington, New
Zealand. He said there was no land nearer for
hundreds and hundreds of miles. We've spoke only
one vessel in five weeks — that were six days ago.
She offered to take us oft' and turn the brig adrift,
but I wur again' that, and so was the mate, and she
left us —in a rare hurry, it looked to me — as if she
^valL opposed to our considering' her after too long'*

That is, a man who holds an Only Mate's certificate.

*' You've lost your fore topgallant mast, I see."

'* She jumped it out of lier in the storm, sir.
Om* t"^o boats was smashed into staves. But that
was all the injury. We lost no sails."

The men, sitting munching biscuit and preserved
meat on the ground, listened eagerly. I glanced
from them to Florence, who was looking with pity
at the rough seaman, and then said to him —

'yours has been a hard case, Somers : not
harder than ours, but hard enough for all that.
But, God be praised, we're both in luck. Here are
hands enough to work that little hooker round the
world ; and in me, my lad, you behold an old fist
at the sextant. But isn't it a wonderful thing to
come about ? Oh, Shilling," I cried, '' it's more
like a dream than the reality to see her there!"
pointing to the brig.

I felt it, Mr. Seymour, I felt it, sir," he
exclaimed, first swallowing a mouthful of biscuit,
*' as I climbed over her side. Had the spaniards
I grasped dissolved in my hands, and the brig
faded out like a vision, I shouldn't have been surprised.
The wonder was to see her and to find
her a real thing, something to stand upon and
lean against."

"And likewise may I say," exclaimed Somers,
addressing Shilling and the others, *that when
daylight come, and I see ye all standing' here hamlin'
and holbein', it pretty nigh took my breath away.

I says to oue of my mates, ' Tom,' I says, ' why,
there must be a village or town astern o' them
rocks, and them there are the inhabitants.' ' A
town in your eye, William,' says he : ' if them
men are not castaway I'll s waller my fingers.' He
wur right," continued the man, gazing round at
the towering slopes with the dull motion of an old
seaman, and then staring with a kind of amazement
at the hut up past us. "But, Lord! what
should we have done if ye hachvt been here ?
Physic ! There's ne'er a drop to be had in this
place, I should think ; and as to ships calling', I
don't see what they have to come for. "What's
there to eat ? That soup an' bully" said he,
looking at the few remaining tins on the ground,
and that there bread came from your ship, I
suppose ? "

Ay," responded one of the men ; *' there are
no shops here, mate."

'* There's plenty o' bilin' water, but notion' to
cook," cried another.

"Why should vessels call? " continued Somers.
'• Why, I never see such a hole of a island ! The
mate must have been wandering' in his mind when
he talked of getting' help here''

Dunno about that," said the bo'sun. " If
that's what you call wandering', it's the best stroke
of sense he could ha' committed, both for us and
for him."

'• Won't 3*011 sit do^u," said I, '•' and eat something?"


''No," answered Somers, '' thanking ye all the
same. There'll be some breakfast ready ^Yhen I
gets aboard."

How is the brig off for provisions ? " said I.

Pretty middling, I think," he answered. " But
the cook's be able to tell you what there is, sir."

'sewell, anyway, we can fill u}) with fresh water,"
I observed; " and if there's such a thing as a gun
aboard, we might lay in a stock of goat's meat."

*' I believe ye'll find an old fowling-piece in the
capt'n's cabin," exclaimed the man: "but I can't
answer for powder. The boy's know. But are
there any goats here? " he added, rolling his eyes
over the slopes ; and then he muttered : " Shivered
if ever I see pitch a hole. Here's a place to come
for physic ! "

It was quite likely that this man had imagined
St. Paul's to be an inhabited island ; and at any
other time I should have laughed at the face he put
on as he turned his eyes up and down the slopes
and round upon the margin of the lake, and then
upon the hut, coming back to us with a dull stare of
bewilderment. But the minutes were precious, as
long before the hour of sunset I hoped to have put
that lonely, inhospitable rock far astern ; so, addressing
Shilling, I said : " Two of the men had
better go to the hut and bring away the rest of the

provisions there ; two of the others can jump into
the gig and row the ladies and me aboard. You
had best stop here, bo'sun, whilst I see if there's
any ammunition for the fowling-piece Somers
speaks of. There'll be nine of us without the
brig's crew, remember, and if you and the others
can knock over a goat or two, the neat will not
come amiss. I'll send you the gun if there are
balls and powder to be found. I'll also find out
what fresh water there is aboard : it'll be a troublesome
job to fill up from the slopes yonder, but it
must be done. "What think you of the weather ? "

'' Why, it looks as if it's going' to be fine for ever,"
he replied, gazing up at the sky.

I told two of the men to jump into the boat, and
handed Aunt Damaris and Florence into the stern-sheets.
William Somers stowed himself away in
the bows. The provisions which had been brought
from the hut for breakfast — that is to say, as much
as the nine of us had left of them — were passed tous,
and we then shoved off, leaving the bo'sun and
three sailors behind. I looked at Florence as we
pulled through the breakwater and saw the towering
cliffs of the island opening north and south, whilst
the sound of the surf came along in a clear low
thunder, heard here as it was not to be noticed
from the inside of the great hollow, and for the life
of me I could not help letting go one of the yoke-lines
to grasp and press her hand. A radiant

expression came into her face as she whispered,
Jack, we shall see dear old Clifton and home
again, after all ! "

And afterwards, darling ? " I asked her.
• But if she had any answer to make to this. Aunt
Damaris took it out of her mouth by crying with
her eyes fixed on the brig : " What a tall short
ship ! quite a tub, I declare ! will she be safe in a
high sea, Mr. Seymour, do you think?"

^' Ay, as safe as the Stratlimore,'" I replied.

She ain't much of a hand at watching, mum''
sung out William Somers from the bows; 'there's
naught but sagging on a bowline in such a trim as
hers ; but as to being safe, ye should ha' seen the
gale she carried us through. Never heard of anything
livelier ; she'd ha' danced the fattest Dutchman
as ever said ' yaw ' for ' yes ' out of his
hammock, ay, even if he'd been lashed in it with the
deep-sea lead atop of him to keep him down — true
as I sit here, mum."

I looked for a gleam of mirth in him, but the
man was as grave as an owl, and clearly meant
what he said, seeing nothing uncommon in his
manner of expressing himself. There were three
heads over the brig's side watching us. The loneliness
of the appearance of the old craft with her
square up-and-down stern, her tall rusty black
sides, round bows, and timbers scarred with toil, her
slack grey rigging and ill-stayed spars affected me

with feelings that I am sure a fine large taut handsome
craft would not have produced. Strong were
the fancies of home she raised ; you thought of the
Thames as you looked at her, of the Tyne, of the
Channel aswarm with just such vessels as she—
Geordie deep with coal, and the white cliffs of the
south-eastern coast dim between then masts :
timber-craft from Norway, stealthily creeping
athwart the North Sea, under the puling of their
patched boom-foresails — and, though, to be sure,
she did not belong to England, yet she raised up a
vivid picture of home before my mind's eye as
common humble things often will, when grander
shows wholly fail as inspirations ; and she moved
me to the heart when I looked past her to the blue
gleaming distance and back at the island, and
thought of the mighty scene we little company of
human souls were in the centre of, and how that
ugly tall squab old waggon there that made you
think of wharves, and grimy faces, had been
steered, as it might be, by the very hand of God
through all these enormous leagues of water to our
help. Ay ! there was a light upon her that came
not from the sea or sky : beautiful it made her
ugliness, and you felt the power of gratitude to
render an inanimate fabric of wood and hemp,
as dear to the soul as if life were in it ; and
you loved it because of its love and labour for
you.

VOL. III. u

We got the gig under her port main-channels,
which formed a convenient platform for the ladies,
and by dint of lifting and hoisting, we handed
Florence and her aunt over the side. The three
fellows who had watched us coming pressed eagerly
around us. Their faces were full of astonishment ;
had we been wildly-attired savages, such as had
never been viewed in any part of the world before
by mariners, their looks could not have expressed
more amazement that came very near indeed to an
expression of incredulity. I at once asked which of
them was the cook : whereupon the grimiest of the
three striking himself, answered, " Here, sir."

*' William Somers," said I, " tells me that your
late captain had a fowling-piece — do you know if
there's any ammunition on board ? "

'you ought to be able to tell the german,
Dick," exclaimed the cook, turning to one of the
three, who was a youth of about sixteen.

''A' know there's a goon," responded the boy,
"but a' can't say if there's ony powder ; I'll gan
seek some."

"Had away, then," cried the cook, and the boy
ran into the cabin.

This was a deck-house, extending abaft the mainmast.
I could pretty well guess the Sarah Jane's
age from the vestiges which remained of what had
once been a gaudy front to this structure, even now
not innocent of gilt, with little windows on either

side a low door, like a small cottage, a red curtain
in each window, and some queer devices, painted
green, forming a sort of frame for the quaint
Dutch-like exterior. Past this deck-house on
neither hand went a narrow gangway, hut from it to
the house forward, where the men slept, was all
clear deck, with a whig main-hatch, a little winch,
and a couple of old brake-jumps. Such a tub of
a ship as this I had never before stood upon ; I
doubt if her length was more than three and a half
times her beam ; she had bulwarks as high as my
shoulder ; there was scarcely a piece of timber
belonging to her that did not resemble the inside
of a muffin, with the holes of decay and hard usage
in it ; and it would have made any sailor laugh to
look aloft at the yards and spars which appeared
to have belonged to vessels of different burden in
their time. Nevertheless, when I felt that old deck
under me, and saw the lonely island beyond
lifting its great slopes into the sky, and then
thought of what might have been the fate of the
girl who stood near me glancing from here to thereat
the brig but for the miracle of this old hooker's
arrival, my heart swelled with gratitude, and not
the proudest line-of-battle-ship that ever reared her
majestic heights of canvas to the clouds could, at
a time when all was well with me, have seemed so
fair and noble an object in my sight as did this
decayed apple-bowed timber-box in the morning

of our release from a period of bitter suffering and
of fears deeper than despair.

In a few minutes the boy returned with an old
fowling-piece, a flask of powder, and some balls.
He had found the ammunition in a locker in the
captain's berth, he told us in a voice of triumph
that sounded shrill with its North-country rattle.

*' I suppose you have no fresh meat aboard'*
said I to the cook.

"Not an ounce, sir."

Is there plenty of salt meat ? " He answered,
so much pork and so much beef, as near as he
could guess, without overhauling the stores.
Then," said I, " it's plain enough we must lay ina
stock of goat's flesh. What fresh water is
there ? "

Of this fortunately there was an abundance, a
number of spare casks having been taken aboard at
the Cape, and filled to serve as ballast. This, as I
say, was most fortunate, for the labour of obtaining
a store from the wells up the hills would have
been enormous, and must have detained us three
or four days. I now told the boy and the other
seaman that they could jump into the gig with the
sowing-piece, and go ashore and help my men to
kill as many goats as they could come at, and hunt
for crabs and shell-fish, and whatever provisions
the rocks yielded. The i^oor fellows were delighted
with the chance of a run ashore and tumbled

briskly over the side. The cook looked as if he
"Should like to join them, but I wished to have him
aboard to tell me about the rest of the stores, etc.,
and to get the cabin to rights for the ladies. Will
Somers also remained, and I asked him to step into
the cabin where the mate lay, and ascertain how
he was, and if he could speak with me. He returned
after a short absence, and said that the
mate was very poorly indeed, but that he'd be glad
if I'd see him. '' The first question he asked,"
said Somers, " was, if there's any chance of getting'
some medicine for his sickness ; and when I shook
my head and told him I was afeard there was
no then to be done in that way in this mocking
ireland, his jaw dropped, and 'twas pitiful to hear
the groan he gave."

The three of us followed the man into the deck-house,
which I found to be a very plain old interior
quite in keeping with the rest of the brig. There
was a table on the starboard side, with a cushioned
locker running down it, and on the port side there
went a bulkhead divided into three cabins, with a
bit of a berth in the foremost end where, I afterwards
learnt, were kept the sail maker's gear, carpenter's
chest, stuff used for the rigging, etc. It
was a homely cabin, indeed, a mere box of a place,
with the carvings and jobbing of three or foi*
generations of sailors upon the woodwork of it,
four small circular windows over the table, and a

little window in each cabin. If there had ever
been a carpet it must have gone overboard during
the gale. I asked Florence and her aunt to be
seated whilst I spoke to the mate ; and on Somers
indicating the man's cabin, which was the aftermost
one, I knocked on the little door and entered.

A gleam of sunshine came through the window,
and slanted like a bar of silver from it to the deck ;
it filled the narrow compartment with a luminous
haze that made seeing difficult for a moment or
two, and then behind the sunbeam, as it might be, I
made out a bunk with a man lying in it, dressed in
his drawers and shirt, with an old blanket drawn
over his bare feet up to his knees.

There was a seaman's chest painted green, in
one corner, and on top of it a tin dish containing
a piece of salt meat that looked to have been
untasted. A broken clay pipe lay on the deck
under the bunk. An old rusty pilot coat swung by
a nail at the door, and near the chest was an empty
metal wash basin. The poor fellow lying in the
bunk was a man of about thirty years of age ; yet
he might have passed for fifty, so fearful was the
havoc that pain and sickness had wrought in his
face. His hair lay plentifully tossed upon the rude
soiled bolster that pillowed his head : his eyes had
the glazed look that incessant anguish gives ; his
lips were bloodless, and so fiercely had emaciation
done its work, that under the ragged beard, the

growth of a few weeks only, it looked to be, you
could see the jawbone coming through the skin like
the back of a knife, and every vein and artery upon
the forehead and under the eyes and down past
the ears on either side the throat stood out as
standing rigging will under a wet sail blown hard
against it.

"I am sorry," said I, approaching him close and
speaking softly, " to find you in this state ; and
sorrier seeing that it is to you, under God, that
there are nine of us, of whom two are ladies, who
will be owing their* preservation fi-om heaven alone
Mows what fearful fate. What is your malady ? "

I don't know, su," he answered, in such a
voice that it made the heart sick to hear it,
I'd been ailing ever since we left the Cape, but
it came on worse after the captain was washed
overboard, and has made me what 3'ou see. I'm
sm-e medicine could save me ; I'm sm-e a doctor
could make me a well man. Oh, it's a di-dreadful
thing to lie dying here alone — without help — so far
from home. I'd not mind death if I could be
buried ashore, but to think of being flung into
the sea and left to float about there — oh, God,
have mercy upon me ! "

"You mustn't think of that'' said I. "You're
a sailor, and have held sour life in yom* hand too
long, as all sailor men do, to give up whilst
you've still got a grip of it. I've left my men

ashore to kill some goats if they can come at
them, and a mess of fresh meat should do you
good," said I, with a glance at the pale bit of salt
meat in the tin; " and when they laye done that
job, which needn't take them over long, we'll up
anchor and head for the latitude of ships, where
we may get advice and medicine for you."

He muttered something with a rolling up of his
eyes that left nothing but the whites of them
visible, and methought, when I looked at him then,
lads, that if ever death, lying skulking inside of
a live man, and quietly doing its work there, came
up and had a peep at you out of his face, it did
out of that mate's, and God help me for the wild
memory of it. Presently his eyes came back to
their place, and he gazed at me sensibly.

Is there any one of you," says he, " who can
navigate this brig ? "

I can," I replied ; " that is, if you have the
means aboard."

Oh, you'll find what you want in the captain's
cabin, sir," he exclaimed ; " but I fear the chronometer
'11 have stopped."

Then I must make shift and do without it,"
said I. '' I am glad to hear there is plenty of
fresh water aboard. Do you know what stock of
provisions remains ? "

How many will there be of us altogether,
sir ? "

"Well, our party makes nine; and there are
seven of you, counting the two disabled men and
yourself — sixteen in all."

He shut his eyes, and lay awhile thinking ; and
the brightness coming down white off the gush of
sunshine piercing the cabin window, lay full upon
his face, and made him look the saddest corpse
for never did man seem deader as he lay with
his eyes shut — that was ever floated by a ship's
deck.

"I think," said he, faintly, 'you'll find there'll
be enough provisions to last out five weeks, by
putting all hands on short allowance."

'* Not more?"

I fancy not, sir. But the cook can overhaul
the lazarette and let you know."

If this were true, it was not comforting, though
I ^vill not say it was alarming either, for so long
as we had plenty of fresh water, the hardship of
going upon a short allowance of provisions would
not be very great; and it would be more than
strange, indeed it would seem as if we were to be
cursed and finally overwhelmed and destroyed by
misfortune, if, between this and five weeks, we did
not encounter held). After a short pause, the mate
asked me how I proposed to head.

'why," said I, "for Australia. I don't see
that we could do better. We have nothing but
westerly winds in these seas to depend upon."

A sort of light came into his dim eyes, and a
wan smile playedabont his mouth. "Oh," said
he, " it does me good to talk to you, sir, and hear
you speak of heading for Australia. There's a
sound of life in yom words, sii\ I wish I was able
to be on deck to help you. But you'll find
William Somers a good steady man; you can
safely trust him with the brig."

Ay," said I, " and besides, I have the bo'sun of
the Stratford — a first-rate seaman. Don't trouble
yourself about your inability to help me : I'm an
old hand, and think I can show the Sarah Jane the
road home. Meanwhile, pluck up heart, and hope
for the best, and depend upon it, that if help can
be obtained, the first of it shall be given to 3'OU."
And so saying, I took his hand, and pressed it
and left him.

CHAPTER XII.

eve Lease THE ISLAND.

I FOUND the cook standing in the cabin door, and
called him in to help me to arrange for the
accommodation of Aunt Damaris and Florence.
The largest of the three cabins was the captain's,
next the mate's ; there were two bunks in this
room, along with a fixed washstand, a Httle table
that swung on hinges, and one or two other things
of that kind, which made the compartment look
habitable.

"Now, Mr. Seymom-,'' exclaimed Aunt Damaris,
throwing down her cloak, and looking and talking
with a great ah' of hearty active bustle, " I'm not
going to allow you to be our chambermaid. You
have the brig and the provisions and a thousand
matters to attend to, and Florence and I are quite
able to make this cabin comfortable for ourselves.
Have you any clean blankets in this ship ? " said
she, addressing the cook, with the old pecking
gesture of her lean face.

"Naught but what you see, missus," answered
the cook, pointing to a blanket and rug in the
upper bunk.

"Well, we cannot use them as they are, but I
suppose they can be washed and dried by-and-by,"
said the old lady, hauling them out, and looking
at them, and then dropping them on to the deck.

'i'll endeavour to wash them, if the cook can
find me a tub and some soap," said Florence.

I laughed, and said, '' Why, my darling, what
do you think you could make of them with your
little hands ? No need for you to turn laundress
yet, Florence. Besides, I suppose there's not much
soap to be found going aboard the Sarah Jane, is
there, cook ? "

I dunno as I could put my hand at once on a
piece," answered the cook; 'but there ought to
be a bar or two knocking about somewheres."

Any way, Miss Hawke," said I, " I'll leave
you for the present, whilst I take a look round.
This cabin is not so comfortable as the Strath-move's,
but it's better than the hut," and so saying,
I left them, keeping silence about the desperate
condition of the mate next door, for they could do
him no good, and I wanted nothing sorrowful to
come down again with its gloom to darken the
hope and gladness which were shining bright in
my darling's beauty.

The little hatch that led into the lazarette, was

at the extreme after end of the deck-house, and I
told the cook to get a Hight and go down and make
out a list of the provisions there, that we might
thoroughly understand how we were off in that
respect. Whilst he was thus occupied, I went on
deck, and walked forward to the fore deck-house,
the crew's sleeping place, a long structure with a
little bit of a caboose at one end of it; and,
putting my head in, I found a row of hammocks
suspended from the ceiling, with several chests on
the deck, on one of which sat William Somers
smoking a ]^i^e.

'* Where are the disabled men ? " I asked.

He pointed to a couple of the hammocks which
were swung forwards, and I went and stood up
betwixt them. My eyes came just above the
canvas sides, and I saw the men, one on either
hand, lying motionless and white. I spoke to
them, and they answered me. I told them who I
was, and gave them a brief account of om' shipwreck,
and asked them how they were getting on.
The fellow who had broken his leg said that the
limb gave him no pain ; he was afraid he'd never
be able to go to sea any more, and how he was to
get a living he was sure he couldn't tell ; anyhow,
he didn't think now he was going to die, though
when he was first laid down after he had broken
his leg, the pain was so fearful that he had made
sure his time was come. The other man was ina

worse plight : lie had injured himself internally,

and the least movement of his body gave him

great agony. I did my utmost to encom-age them

J)oth by giving them to understand that my own

men consisted of seven able seamen, that I had

been second mate in my time, and that amongst

us it would go hard if we did not haul the brigand

them and the poor mate aft, clear of the

dreadful mess we had found them in, and put them

in the way of becoming sound men again. I saw

a kind of life come glimmering into their faces,

which, now that my sight was used to the twilight

in which they hung, were quite visible, as they

listened to me. But, my lads, it was sad to see

them, sad to a man whose heart is with sailors,

who knows their hard life, the nameless deaths

they die, and how they encounter sufferings, how

they endure anguish, which God alone, whose eye

is upon the sea, where the most helpless and the

most simple-hearted of His children are gathered,

has any knowledge of. Heaven forbid that I

should claim from humanity more sympathy for

the sailor than for any other class whose life is

obscure, whose toil is great, whose poverty is

extreme, whose sufferings are many, whose death

is often violent. But the sick or dying seaman,

far away out at sea, in the lonely forecastle, the

lonely hammock, so friendless, that when he is

dropped over the ship's side no man can say

-whose cliilcl he was, lying there with the sound of
the storm, or the wash of the bow-wave in his
ear, a poor, ignorant, simple, harmless human
soul, floating, as it might be, out of the immensity
of the ocean into eternity, with never a woman's
sob to let him know that he is loved, with never
a tender hand to smooth his pillow, to refresh
his forehead, to let him feel that there is a heart
that cares for him, appeals to one so strongly,
that I cannot conceive of any other form of
sickness or death more moving. Mates, it maybe
so because of the vastness and loneliness of
the deep. This, one feels as a condition of death
at sea, that makes a soul's departure to its God
an awful, a subduing thing there. Ashore you
have green fields, and trees and houses to limit
your sphere, and a graveyard to localize your
loss. But at sea, you look athwart the slant of the
distant blue swell right into the azure eternity ;
and the sense of immeasurable space, and the
frightful loneliness of it, is ujoon you as you
witness the launch of a soul by death into it just
as the mystery of the fathomless ocean with its
dark heart and the wonders contained in it, seems
to rise like a breathing out of its unbroken circle
as the sailor's corpse cleaves it, and a bubble
sparkles for an instant as Nature's memorial of
another vanished life.

It'll be a tight fit," said I to Somers, *for my

six men and you who remain of the crew in this
deck-house."

"Ay, it'll be tight," he answered; "but there'll
be only half of us here at a time; and if this
weather lasts I damno that it could harm the most
delight among us to turn in on deck. There's room
for three or foemen under the windlass."

Oh, you'll manage, no doubt. D'ye know if the
galley fire's alight ? "

It is, sii'."

Then, my lad," said I, " I'd take it as a
kindness if you'd turn to and boil a pot of coffee
for the ladies and me. The cook's busy in the
lazarette, or I shouldn't trouble you. We've not
drunk anything warm in that way since the night
om ship went down."

He at once complied, whilst I stumped about the
deck, examining the brig's equipment and her
rigging and spars. I discovered that we should
have to sail the vessel without a foreto^Dgallant mast,
for there were no spare booms, nothing that would
answer for a mast and yard, to be seen. But this
was no very serious matter. The weather continued
beautifully fine. The brig rolled lightly
upon the faint swell that, as it ran, seemed to
deepen the wonderful blue of the ocean with its
folds. The vault of the sky was cloudless, and the
sun flashed in the north-east ; the light of him
made the heavens like silver all about him ; but the

island slopes went up into violet so darkly pure
that the rich bewildering loveliness of it cannot be
expressed nor imagined. From the brig, one saw
the eastern and part of the northern seaboard of
that lonesome hollow rock, and I stood lost in
thought watching it. Inland, beyond the lake, the
curve of it went round with a faintness of colour,
and the gleam of water under it. I could see two
of the men upon the rocks a long way past the
spot whereon we had landed, but the others were
not in sight. On the summit on the right was the
boat's mast with Aunt Damaris* shawl fluttering
its black folds upon the soft wind that had veered
into the west, and was blowing without weight
enough to swing the brig. A tiny signal it looked,
and a hopeless one I felt it must have proved, had
we had nothing else to look for but the help it was
likely to court. The surf made a continuous moan,
and in places at the base of the rocks it would
flash out at times, and there was a frequent play
of it around the ninepin rock, that was a towering
lump to look at from our anchorage.

Thus gazing m a dreamy manner, scarcely
realizing the ill-luck that had plunged us into this
situation, the amazing good fortune that had
rescued us from it, I was aroused by feeling a
hand slipped into mine. It was Florence.

*' Oh, Jack ! " she exclaimed, "is it not wonderful
to find ourselves here when yesterday we

VOL. III. X

believed we should never be released from that
island ? "

'' So wonderful that it hardly seems true. Why,
only think of the chances against a vessel calling
here for any purpose ! But the sea is too full of
surprises to allow people who are accustomed toit
ever to feel astonished at what happens on it.
The night we spent in an open boat : one day and
night on that rock : that consists of our shipwreck
so far. Now our business is not to go on wondering,
but to get home. And oh, my love, my
darling, how happy shall I be when I feel that
English soil is once again under your feet, and
that there is no more fear of sea disasters
happening to make sour sweet face white, and
put such sorrow and hopelessness as I spied yesterday
in your eyes."

It has been a terrible time — yet it has done
one thing, Jack — I think."

"What, my own?"

"It has brought us closer together," said she.
hanging her head and yet peeping at me.

Ay, it has done that. But what is to be the
end ? When we get home what will yom father
do '? will he come between us ? "

I don't think he will — I don't think he could,"
she answered, and then said, " poor papa ! " and
sighed.

I folded my arms and leaned against the bulwarks

looking at lier. '* I talk of getting home,"
said I ; •' but we have to reach Austraha first."
Oh ! are we going on to Australia ? "
"Why, yes; because, you see, the prevailing
winds in these seas are westerly, and I don't
want to sail a thousand miles north to get a
fair wind for the Cape. "When we reach Australia,
arrangements may be made for 3'ou to
stop with your aunt a year or two, and what
shall I do then ? must I stay too ? if I am ever to
call you my own, inseparably mine, Florence — my
wife indeed — how long shall I have to wait for that
time to arrive ? Oh, my daring, do you know that
my outlook as regards you is like om* outlook from
that island yesterday: nothing but fiji weather
in sight ; no land, no ship, no promise of escape '? *'
She was blushing as I tallied thus : but girls
have mighty good sense in such matters as these,
and she quietly took a hitch with the end of my
jawing-tackle by saying, 'jack, let us reach
Austraha first, and then, dear, we will put our
heads together," which properly brought me up with
a round turn ; for, after all, there was no good jabbering
about how we were to get married, and what
her father would do, and what 'might happen when
we reached Sydney or England, or whatever other
country we might happen to fetch, till the island
we were lying abreast of was as far astern as the
coast we meant to aim for was now distant.

Besides, Aunt Damaris at that moment came out
of the cabin to stop pay further talk of that kind.
You could see the high spirits she was in by her
walk, that was half a dance, as she approached us.

'' Oh ! " she cried, in a rapturous way, clasping
her hands, with many a pecking gesture of her
head ; " what a wonderful deliverance ! It is
impossible to realize it in that house. Our cabin
will do very well, Mr. Seymour. Florence will
take the top berth, for I cannot climb. If one
of the sailors will wash the rug and blanket — and
I dare say there are more to be had and washed —
we shall be quite comfortable. How long are we
going to stop here ? "

I am only waiting for the men to come off With
whatever they may catch or kill," said I.

'' And where shall we go then '} " she asked.

Why, to Australia," I replied.

Oh, pray don't go to Australia, for my sake, if
there's any nearer land. The nearest place where
we can find a comfortable ship will be the best
place to sail to."

I told her that Australia was as near as any
other country, and I also explained wh}^ I chose it.
But," said I, " I don't trouble to think of fetching
Australia in this old waggon. We must endeavour
to sight a vessel and transfer ourselves to her, let
her destination be what it will."

'' Suppose," said she, " we don't sight a ship •

will you be able to navigate this brig to Australia
? "

"Why, yes; certainly. If I were not a sailor
I should no doubt be at a loss. You see, Miss
Hawke, it's sometimes useful to have been at sea
as a sailor."

And to be in the company of a sailor when one
is shipwrecked," said Florence.

Oh, Mr. Jack," cried Aunt Damaris, effusively,
grasping my hand ; *' you are a dear good fellow !
What do we not owe you ? "

This'' I replied, lifting Florence's hand.

*' You have it," answered the old lady, promptly.
Have I not told j^ou so again and again? It is
my affair now," she added, with a toss of her head
for which I could have kissed her ; " and my
brother will see the thing in its proper light when
/ explain."

My darling's sweet eyes peered up into mine as
if she should say, " There, Jack, what more can
you possibly want ? "

Just then comes William Somers, rolling out of
the galley with a couple of hookpots of coffee in his
hands. We followed him into the cabin, and, by
dint of rummaging, he procured some cups and
saucers, ship's biscuit, moist sugar, and a lump
of cold salt junk. There was no milk, but, for all
that, Florence and her aunt were glad of the hot
coffee ; and they even attacked the beef and the

sea bread, finding their appetite now that the first
deep excitement the news and sight of the brig had
raised in them was gone, and perhaps guessing
there might be some relish in the salt meat after
the fat and insipid tinned stuff we had been living
upon. It did my heart good to see them eating
and talking in that little cabin with something of
the old life in their manner that they had aboard
the Stratford. Whilst we were thus occupied,
the cook came up out of the lazarette, rather
scaring Florence by his slow ghostly way of
issuing through the bit of a hatch. He was
covered with perspiration and grimy as a sweep
with creeping and crawling ; but the job was worth
the trouble, for, from the report he made to me, and
the figures he had set down on a piece of paper
by the aid of his lamp, I could now tell exactly
the length of time the provisions would hold outby
putting ourselves on a limited allowance. I
found that we could make them last a good two
months without very great stint. This was beyond
my expectations, and rendered me easy in my
mind ; for I had a good right to consider that even
if we failed to encounter between this and Australia
any vessel worth quitting the brig for, we were
likely to meet with one that would be willing to
help us to the extent of a gift of beef, or flour, or
bread.

There was nothing now to be done till the men

came aboard ; and I hoped the bo'sun, if he found
the old fowling-piece of no use among the goats,
would not linger, for I was impatient and wanted
to be off. The westerly wind had gathered weight,
and was now blowing a very pretty little breeze.
The sea sparkled like a surface of diamonds to it,
and the blue shone up through the innumerable
flashing, and made a most lovely space of water.
I could not see the men ashore, nor hear the sound
of shots ; but there was nothing surprising in this,
for the north horn of rock shut out a large piece
of the island in the north-west, and for the same
cause the sound of the gun, if the crazy old piece
made any noise at all, would be killed long before
it could reach us. I got chairs out of the cabin,
and made my darling and the old lady comfortable
on deck ; and hung about them all the morning
till the sun was past the north and the afternoon
had begun.

Talk ! why, I cannot remember that my tongue
ever wagged more incessantly. One thing leading
on to another, we drifted into the subject of my
love, and I gave Aunt Damaris the whole story of
it as if this were the first time this matter had
been mentioned between us. I wouldn't let her offa
single point. I began the yarn by telling her all
about myself, who my father was, and who my
mother was, the exact extent of my income, how
my uncle bad found me out, and so worked my way

clean along until I came to my joining the Strath-more,
and then I bestowed a few blunt truths upon
her. I told her that I had chosen the name of
Egerton, " because," said I, "it has an aristocratic
sound, and I hoped it might prejudice you in my
favour and enable me to be much with Florence
without "

"Without what, Mr. Seymour?" said she with
her old face looking wonderfully keen against the
blue sky beyond her.

Well, without exciting your hostility. I
thought to myself, ' if she likes Mr. Morecombe
simply because he's well connected, she will like
me, too, if I can only make her believe I'm of good
birth and aristocratically associated.' But I didn't
succeed," said I smiling at her; " if you liked me
it was for myself."

You shouldn't have tried," she answered ;
it's the one thing I can't respect in you. It's
annoying to be imposed upon."

"Yes," said I, "but supposing I had come
aboard as Jack Seymour, and you had known who
I was, what would have happened? You'd have
taken my darling ashore again, and gone back to
Clifton to tell Mr. Hawke that that horrid vulgar
young sailor fellow had actually had the impudence
"

Oh, Jack, please don't," cried Florence.

"And besides," I continued, "you'd never have

known me, and I'd have bad no chance of proving
to you that I was not such a what-you-may-call-it
as Mr. Hawke had led you to believe."

"You mentioned the name of Mr. Morecombe
just now," said the old lady. 'haven't I begged
you not to refer to that man ? If not for mine,
then for Florence's sake. It's positively indelicate,
I think, to speak of him. And oh ! what a place to
be talking about these matters in ! " she cried with
a look around at the brig and then a sharp glance
at the island. '' ^\'hy have you begun the subject ?
Are you not satisfied ? You have won my niece's
love, you have gained my consent, and, after what
has happened, her papa is not likely to object.
You had no right to impose upon me — and
Florence, you are equally guilty — but I have forgiven
you that, Mr. Jack, in consideration of the
manner in which you have behaved since that
fearful night when the Stratford was wrecked."

I bowed and said, '' I only desire to clear myself.
You know very little about me, and I wished you
to learn all that I had it in my power to tel.
As to Florence, she would have confessed who I
was to you on the very day she discovered I was
on board. If she kept my secret it was for my
sake, not for her own."

"Besides, aunt," said Florence, "do not forget
that I, too, was imposed upon by being urged to
take this dreadful voyage without the least hint

having been given me that Mr. Morecombe was to
join us. You know that had I dreamt he was
coming with us I should not have put foot on the
Stratlimore,"

"Bother the man!" cried the old lady. "I
wish he had never been born, I'm sure."

It's a pity he didn't persevere in his pursuit of
Florence," said I. "I should like to have had him
with us in the gig and on that island. Oh, Miss
Hawke, he was an arrant impostor — a consummate
ass. Think of consigning my daring to a bit of
gingerbread that was to get its gilding from
her ! "

Won't you change the subject ? " exclaimed the
old lady.

"I wil," I replied: 'but if you put a gimlet
into a full cask it'll leak ; and the thought of that
pupi^y works into my heart like a bradawl."

It's dreadful," said Aunt Damaris, ''to be talking
of such light subjects here. Why don't you
speak to me of the other boats ? where are they ?
what has become of them ? are all the people in
them drowned ? Oh, think of poor Mrs. and Miss
Grant, and the 'tween deck women and their Httle
children and babies ! "

"Their disappearance is a complete puzzle tome,"
said I. "Pray God they may be accounted
for. I propose to steer for Amsterdam island when
we get under weigh. Some of the boats may have

fetched that place. I wish our men would come.
This is not a breeze to waste."

As I said this, I tm-ned to look over the rail
towards the island, and the first thing I saw was
the gig pulling out through the breakwater.
'* Here they are ! " I shouted. *' Goats or no goats ;
hurrah for home ! "

The boat was deep, much deeper than the
weight of the seven men should have sunk her.
The oars flashed in the sunshine as they rose and
fell, and I sprang on to the bulwarks to hail the
bossu. "Bear a hand, men," I bawled. "Let's
get under weigh. We're sick of waiting. What
have you got? "

Four dead goats and about half a ton of crabs
and shell-fish," he shouted.

The gig drove alongside, and it was indeed a
sight to look into her. Drawing and wriggling
about her bottom were some hundreds of crabs,
many of them of great size, together with masses
of shell-fish of various descriptions, such as crayfish,
whelks, or what might have passed for them,
limpets, and cockles. Upon them lay four dead
goats, meagre-looking animals to be sure, with
long beards and long horns. The men came
clambering over the brig's side, leaving two hands
in the gig ; then the goats were hauled up, all the
tubs which could be mustered brought along, and
buckets passed over, which were filled with crabs

and shell-fish, drawn up and emptied into the tubs.
There looked, perhaps, to be more than there was ;
but, nevertheless, there was a wonderful store, and
I asked the bo'sun how on earth the men had
managed to collect so great a quantity. He told
me that he had put four men to the work whilst he
and two others went a goat-hunting. In one part
of the rocky beach there were grooves and hollows
full of crabs and cray-fish, and many of the rocks
were thick with limpets and cockles. The men
stripped off their shuts to form bags, and in that
manner carried quantities to the boat, 'which,"
said the bo'sun, "I found half full of crabs and
cockles when I and my mates came down with
the goats. Four was as many as I could knock
over," he continued. " 'Twas a rare job to get
nigh 'em. They seemed to smell ye if you
stirred, and with a toss of the head be off like a
gale o' wind. I wasted all my powder upon them
four. And the gun was a rare 'un to miss. An' I
dunno V said he, "after all's said and done, whether
them beasts was worth the trouble o' chasing. I'll
allow they're more hair nor meat, an' I reckon,
when ye're chucked their horns and beards and
tails and hoofs out o' the calculation, there'll not
be much soup to come at, though we should turn
to and go on biting from now tiU we get home."

'' Did you bring off the rest of our old stores ? "

Ay, sir, all that there was."

I pulled out my watch. 'rit's now a quarter
to two'' said I. " Send the men to diner, will
YOU, Shilling ; they'd better dine off the old
stores to save time, and tell them not to be long
over it. I want to be in sight of Amsterdam Island
before dark, if possible, to see if there be any of the
Strathmores people there''

The gig was now emptied, the two fellows
tumbled up out of her, she was then hoisted
aboard, and all hands went to dinner. Pleasant
it was to hear their* gruff voices talking in the
deck-house, and to see one and then another
come out munching and looking up and around
and then re-entering the structure. It made one
feel the reality of the brig and the sureness of the
rescue in a manner that one was scarcely sensible
of when alone, and when the vessel was silent and
the sound of the surf could be heard. Aunt
Damaris and ;florence went about the decks looking
at the crabs, which offered a curious sight as
they crawled and stirred in heaps in the tubs ; but
somehow, now that we were about to get under
weigh, the sense of what we had come through,
and what we had escaped, weighed upon me so
heavily that I could think of nothing else, and
stood as a man in a dream, with my eyes fixed on
the island. I know that my soul fell into a prayer
that was without words when I put myself back
in fancy upon that rocky summit and imagined

the darkness round me, and the stars shining into
the hollow, and my sight despairingly yearning
into the distant dimness of the mighty sea, and
then reflected upon what the morning had brought,
and how here we were now aboard a vessel
abundantly manned, and of bulk enough to transport
us safely whithersoever we should take it into
our heads to steer her. It seemed too wonderful a
stroke of fortune to be real, and yet there was that
lonely island, terrible for its solitude, to assure it.
It set my heart off at a galop to see the sunshine
flashing into the blue air of the cup, and the
rugged slopes beyond going up dark against the
glorious Pacific azure, and to think that, but for
this brig, we might have languished there for weeks
and months, till our clothes fell in rags from our
bodies, till sickness and suffering had thinned our
little company and left but two or three to look
with dying eyes into each other's hollow face. A
man feels a situation of horror like this more when
he has just escaped from it than when he is
actually in it. There is a curdling of the blood,
a sickly sensation of fear in looking down the
precipice over Which you were just now hanging,
holding your life by grasping a root, such as,
maj^be, you were not sensible of when a five
hundred foot fall was below you, and the daylight
was growing faint upon your eyes.

However, the sound of the bo'sun's voice called

me away from these tlioiights. Florence and her
aunt came aft ; and in a few minutes all hands
were on deck, and the windlass clanking handsomely
aSj bit by bit, the chain cable was hove in to
a rattling chorus that awoke a Imndi-ed echoes in
the island.

^' .Jump aloft, two of you," I sung out, '' and
loose the topsails. Bo'suu, get the fore-topmast
staysail hoisted. Loose the topgallant sail before
you come down, and stand by to overhaul your
clew lines ! " I bawled to the fellow who was
trotting up the main rigging. Clink, clink, went
the windlass paul forward, and the voices of the
men broke away in a hurricane note.

"Hove short, sir," roared the bo'sun.

'* Sheet home the fore-topsail, then. Hoist away
the jib there," and in a few minutes there was sail
enough to pay the brig's head off. Once again the
windlass was manned, the anchor broken out of
the ground, and with the helm hard over, the light
old timber waggon slewed slowly round on her heel
and began to move through the water.

Loose the foresail. Masthead the maintopsail
yard. Get your main and main topmast staysails
hoisted. Loose the trysail. Wheel there, steady !
How's her head ? "

'' North by east, half east, sir."

"Keep her at that."

It was all Epistle and singing out and tumbling

about. But never, I dare say, from the hour on
which she was launched had sail been made on the
brig more rapidly. I'd notice old Aunt Damaris
staring at me with wonder as I shouted out orders,
whilst Florence, sitting alongside of her, would
look at her with a smile. When all the canvas
the brig carried was set, and she was leaning under
the pleasant west wind that was right abeam,
with the further reaches of the island opening out
into the sunlight and the hollow contracting as the
island receded, I sprang on to the rail and, with a
wild flourish of my cap, cheered till it was a wonder
I didn't crack my pipes. My example was instantly
imitated by all hands, who, jumping into the rigging,
and taking their time from the bo'sun, thundered
out cheers, again and again repeated. You
would have thought there were people on the island
and that we were bidding them farewell. Florence
waved her pocket-handkerchief, and I believe the
old lady joined in our shouts. Bit by bit the lonely
rock diminished in size, point after point fading
into brown, and the great ninepin rock melting into
the land. The huge blue ocean was before us,
twinkling frostily under the play of the pleasant
wind, and the old brig curtseying over the light
head-swell was throwing enough foam off her
weather bow to furnish out a wake to make her
look to be sailing ten miles an hour.

CHAPTER XIII.

Struggling EASTWARDS.

The sun seemed to grow hotter as he pestered,
and the sky northwards took a deeper liquid tint ;
but gradually the breeze briskened until, at four
o'clock, it was making a loud humming aloft with
white clouds in the eye of it coming up large and
full, snow-tinted in their brows, and prismatic
colours like bits of rainbow in their skirts ; their
shadows gave a new life to the sea that was now
running in narrow ridges of as beautiful a blue as
the heavens, every azure summit flashing into
foam. But I was more concerned with the brigand
with keeping a bright look-out for land ahead,
than with thinking of the picture the ocean made,
though I had eyes for a shower of flying-fish that
sparked out to windward in a glittering flight,
repeated half a score of times, and for a gleaming
green body that might laye passed for a huge
wedge of emerald, and that I reckoned to be a
dolphin, which kept pace with us to windward in

TOL. in. Y

the wake of the timid lovely little prey it was
conveying.

There was a reel-log abaft the deck-house, and I
had it hove, and made the speed a trifle less than
six knots. This was better than I should have
hoped from the bows and run of the old hooker ;
and yet the breeze now blowing would have sent
the Stratford ahead at ten miles an hour. The
only sails the brig wanted were the fore topgallant
and flying jib : for she carried no studding sails,
her yards perhaps being thought square enough to
enable her to do without them; yet with all her
canvas as well set as hauling taut could bring it,
the yards braced in, every cloth doing its work, the
hull so light that it might have passed for a floating
balloon, the water smooth and the head swell much
too gentle to bother her, the Sarah Jane was barely
giving us six knots. Well, thought I to myself, if
we're not taken out of her by some passing ship,
our voyage to Australia bids fair to be a long one,
for if we can't do better than this under the most
favourable conditions which could befall a vessel,
what's to happen if we meet with head-winds or
light baffling airs ?

Three hours after we had quitted St. Paul's
Island Amsterdam Island was in sight about a point
on the lee-bow, a looming bit of blue with the running
waters trembling between it and us. Fourteen
or fifteen miles astern was the island we had left.

like a bit of amber in the western sunshine. We
had a fair spell of daylight yet before us, and glad
was I to feel the wind freshening still and the
bluff bows forward bursting with a roaring noise
through the water, for, long before the darkness
fell, the breeze would have brought us well within
the scope of any eyes that might be upon the land
there, and it was not likely to draw up so black but
that a boat could see and fetch us if we hove to
and waited a-bit. All this while the hands had
been full of business, making ready the deck-house
for themselves, skinning and cutting up the goats
into joints, boiling the crabs and shell-fish in cap-full
to make room in the tubs for those which were
left uncooked, cleaning up the decks, washing
blankets (which had been come at by the cook)
for cabin use. The bo'sun kept aft with me
much of the time, and there was a hand in the
fore-top with the brig's telescope, working away
with it at the growing and brightening island,
ready to report a signal or a boat if ever such a
thing should heave into the view of his lenses.

A little before six, when the men were thinking of
going to supper, I told the bo'sun we might as well
divide them into watches there and then, and asked
him to send them aft, as I wanted to say something
to them. His hoarse voice sounded, and in two's
and three's the crew came along to past the mainmast,
and stood in a cluster fronting the cabin-door.

If troubles don't sweeten humanity I can answer

for it that they make fellow-feelings sharp, and find

a warm heart for a man to think of his comrades

in trouble with. I could not look at those seamen

without a kind of longing to grasp every one's hand.

Enough they were and grimy as the deuce, for, you

see, they'd had no leisure yet for a wash-down, and

what with hunting for crabs and shooting goats

and clearing up the decks and so forth, their toil

had been both dirty and hard ; and had you found

them, as they then appeared, in a shipping-yard

or cruising along an East-end street, you'd have

backed out of their road and passed on, thinking

them a pack of greasy rascals and wondering what

on earth the British merchant sailor was coming

to. But how well they had done their duty ! how

uncomplainingly they had accepted the privations

of shipwreck ! what heart they had maintained !

what spirits ! what an honest sense of discipline T

And could I forget how they had taken their rest in

the cold damp night air upon the rocks of that iron

island that Aunt Damaris and Florence might

enjoy such poor privacy as the wretched hut had

yielded them ? Oh, my lads, let us always think

kindly of poor Jack. Plough and reckless he

may be, with more faults than you have time or

patience to count, but in my opinion he is never

so bad but that there's more good in him than

you will find in scores of men who are reckoned

really good ashore ; and let ship owners and
captains say what they like to the contrary, my
belief is that there's no ship's forecastle afloat
that does not hold kinder hearts, warmer feelings,
more generous natures, more manly and more unselfish
qualities, ay, mixed up as they may he with
curses and growling God knows too often richly
justified, than you'd find in the biggest building in
Great Britain were you to choke it with landsmen
from the nobleman down to the chimney-sweep.

My lads," said I, '' I've asked you to step aft
just to put a question to you. I've taken charge sofar,
because a head's wanted and we're bound to
make a start. But I don't mean to be skipper here
without your sanction. You men of the poor old
Strathiuore know who I am ; what my qualifications
as a sailor are the bo'sun told you in the gig.
The others belonging to the Sarah Jane may as
well hear that I've been second mate in the service
to whom the Stratford belonged, and that I held a
chief mate's certificate. Now, is it your wish that
I should take command of this brig ? "

Most sartine it is," promptly replied William
Somers, and in a breath there was a volley of "Yes
yes — that's our wish."

"Very well," said I. "My intention is to head
for the Australian coast on account of the prevailing
winds in these seas. Is that agreeable to you
alle

Ay," they answered. I was boss; whatever I
did was bound to be all right.

"If we speak a ship willing to receive us," I continued,
" I shall of course transfer the ladies aboard
her and myself, too ; but as the original crew of this
brig might not choose to leave her, then, if I can't get
anybody from the ship we speak to navigate her, I'll
stick to her and to as many as may remain. You've
stuck to the ladies and me, boys, you have behaved
as English seamen should in trouble, and last night
you acted towards these ladies in such a way that
I know they'll not be satisfied unless I thank you
in their name for your kindness and consideration."

The poor fellows cheered this heartily, and I
looked at Florence and Aunt Damaris who stood
near me. My darling was blushing and smiling and
glancing gratefully at the rough faces which confronted
her. Aunt Damaris clearing her throat, exclaimed,
" My niece and I are deeply obliged to you
all for the use of the hut and for your excellent
conduct throughout. I hope it will be in my power
to thank you by something better than words when
we reach Sydney."

Here there were murmurs of "We don't want
no thanks of that kind, lady. We've done notion
to deserve thanks. We're all sorry that you ladies
should ha' been brought into such a job as shipwreck
; but had ye been sailors ye couldn't have
gone through it with more pluck."

"And now," said I, "who will you choose formate
? "

They answered that they would leave that to me.
"Then," I exclaimed, "I choose Mr. Shilling;
and as "William Somers has had the handling of the
brig since her mate has been do^Ti with sickness,
we can't do better than let him be second mate."
This was agreed to ; the crew were then divided
into watches, and all hands went forward to get
their' supper.

Upon my word, Mr. Sey-mour," said Aunt
Damaris, " you manage sailors capitally."

These are men very easy to manage," I
replied.

I think you would make a very popular captain,"
said she. " Don't 3-ou, Florence ? "

You will be sending Jack to sea again if you
talk to him like that," answered my darling, with a
little pout, and she put her hand through my arm.
I noticed the look that came into the old lady's face
when she saw and heard this. If ever she had
wondered whether Florence were really in love with
me, I fancy, from the expression on her, that her
mind then and there was laid completely at rest on
that head.

The cook brought some tea aft for us, and we
went into the cabin for a meal. The fellow on the
look-out had come down out of the fore-top, and the
telescope was handed to the bo' sun, who, with

the glass under this arm, stumped the weather-side
of the deck as knowingly as if he had never been at
any other sort of work all his life. The heel of the
brig was very great, for the breeze was now a
strong wind, and all that the vessel carried she
had, and seemed to be sailing on her beam ends.
Why, even in the deck-house we could hear her
lee channels tearing through the water, and the
screaming aloft among the rigging was as though
the poor old hooker were shrieking to have the
fierce strain taken off her ancient bones. But I
meant to give her no respite ; specially this evening,
when the island was to be made in daylight if
possible ; and it pleased me mightily to hear her
thrashing through it, with an occasional half-smothered
roar of water forward when she jumped
her round bows into a bit of a hollow — a trifle
of sea now running — and hurled the surge away
from her, whilst her hull appeared to tremble fore
and aft as if she were already breathless and ill
with the excitement of such driving.

It was no easy job to make out a meal in that
deck-house. The little table sloped up to our
mouths, and all that was put upon it slid away ina
huddle down to where it was hinged to the side
of the structure. There were no " fiddles," no
comforts, nor conveniences aboard the Sarah Jane.
It was like soldiering ; only, instead of having
civilized coasts within hail, we were fair betwixt the

Indian and Southern Oceans, midway between
Africa and Australia. There had been a couple of
big crabs cooked, brought to us, and we tried to
eat them, but it was a hard job : the meat in
them was delicious to our appetite, jaded by
preserved foods and di-y biscuits ; and desperately
tantalizing was the behaviour of the legs and shells
and claws, which defied om forks and all our
struggles to detain them upon the tin dishes on the
table, and skimmed upon the deck-house floor with
a vast deal more of alacrity than they could ever
have exhibited in life. At last it came to my
having to feed Aunt Damaris and Florence ; which
I managed by popping bits, at the end of a fork,
first into my darling's mouth and then into her
aunt's ; and need I tell you, boys, which mouth
had the choicest morsels ? It was a funny meal,
and they both laughed heartily as they bobbed
at my fork, which I flourished with great grace and
care ; but the crabs were rare eating, and when the
tea, or supper, or whatever you like to call it, was
finished, Aunt Damaris declared that she hadn't
cnjoj^ed such a meal since she had left England.

I looked into the mate's cabin to see how the poor
fellow was getting on. I had given orders to the
cook to boil him some broth out of a piece of goat's
flesh : and this, along with a crab, he told me he
had eaten and greatly relished ; but when I looked
at him I could not but feel that food was not going

to help Diis illness : not a Lord Mayor's banquet
brought every day to his bedside was likely to do
him any good ; his malady was only too surely some
wasting disease, some failure or decay of a vital
organ, not to be mended by the royalist fare that
an emperor's cook could turn out. Yet I found
him in pretty good spirits. He said it did him
good to hear the brig humming through the water,
and added, " She's tender down to a certain point ;
but after that the canvas would have to blow out of
the bolt-ropes before she'd bury herself by another
half-strake."

'•' Well, I mean to give her no rest," said I. " Had
we had time, maybe I'd have shipped more ballast
at St. Paul's, for it'll be all sagging with her, I'm
afraid, on a bowline. But I'm too thankful to God
to feel her under me to grumble at any point in
her. D'ye know," I asked him, " if there's a razor
aboard ? I feel to look like a ring-faced monkey'
for the want of a shave."

"I think you'll find one in the captain's cabin,"
said he. " I don't know what the poor man had,
I'm sure ; but there'll be more conveniences for
you there than I am able to offer you, sir," and he
just lifted his head to look with a wan apologetic
sorrowful smile at his chest.

I left him, and asked Aunt Damaris leave to
enter her cabin, explaining that I wanted to seek
for a razor there, and also remove the late skipper's

nautical instruments, charts, etc., to my own
berth.

'' The idea of asking my permission ! " she exclaimed.
" Mr. Jack, 3'on can be very sarcastic
sometimes. I shall not soon forget your explanation
for having chosen the name of Egerton."

However, she was smiling as she said this, so I
laughed out, seeing she meant nothing by it.

Jack," said Florence, " can you conceive how
Aunt Damaris and I are to manage for clothes ! If
the voyage is to last for two months — and you
said that was quite probable — what are we to do
for dresses ? "

"Why, my darling," I answered, "what I said
was that it might take this brig all two months,
and perhaps three, ay, and even four, to reach
Australia. But that's supposing we have to-perform
the voyage in her — an idea much too
improbable to disturb us. We're sm-e to meet
with ships good enough to transfer ourselves to,
and it'll be strange if there are not women aboard
who will help you to wearing apparel enough to
last you till you reach Australia."

But how long is that likely to be, Mr. Sey-mour
? " said Aunt Damaris. '• Remember, please
that Florence and I are absolutely without a
change of — er — a change of "

I wish I could tell for certain," said I. " We
may be out of this brig in a week — we may be out

of lier to-molTO^Y. Alio can guess ? But, myi)et,"
said I, turning to her, " don't worry yourself over
such a trifle as a change of dress. Think of the
fearful island of St. Paul's already being miles
astern of us, and that we are fairly under way fora
port that will terminate all the abominable
anxieties and sufferings you and Miss Hawke
have undergone."

'* Women can't help thinking of dress even in
ship) wreck," said she laughing. '' It's not nice to
feel a fright even in the midst of disaster. How I
look, I'm sure I cannot imagine. I am thankful
there is no looking-glass in the brig ; I know I
should peep at it, and I'd much rather not find out
how I appear."

"How you appear ! " cried I. '' Be easy, love.
Appear as you will, you can't help being lovely."

It made her as red as a rose to hear me, for she
knew by the passion in my voice, and by my eyes,
that I was speaking heaven's truth, as it seemed
to me.

And how do I look, I wonder ? " exclaimed
Aunt Damaris. " Fearful, no doubt ! " and her
old face bobbed up at me with a speck, as much as
to say, "• No nonsense, young man ! "

'' I'll say no more than this," I answered ; " and
I mean no compliment : you look ten years younger
than you did when I first saw you at Gravesend.
Think what you like of the sea, it has served you

well, Miss Hawke ; and your friends ^vill tell you
so when you get ashore, believe me."

"Was I humbugging her? Not I. I meant to
put her into a good humour with herself, and if a
fellow can please an old lady in that way he ought
to do it. Pleased she was, and you saw her adjust
her starboard sausage curl as she glanced at
Florence with a smile.

'• But," continued I, '^ I hope there is a looking-glass
in the brig — even a bit of one — for if I don't
shave soon, my darling, I shall have to keep clear
of you out of self-respect."

You certainly would look better for a shave,
Jack," said she. '^ Whiskers might become join
when you get them ; but a tooth brush, dear, or
what looks like the tips of a row of them "

I bolted into their cabin, and was followed by a
peal of laughter from both of them. I found a
sailor's chest and a small locker; the chest was
half full of clothes, and nothing else ; but in the
locker, besides an old sextant, I found a brush and
comb, a hand-glass with a loop attached to the
handle, three razors in cases, several pieces of
soap wrapped in paper, along with some boxes of
cigars, a handful of wooden pipes, a housewife
well stocked, and a score of other odds and ends.
In a corner was a bagfull of charts, and on a small
shelf over the door a chronometer and a case of
implements for navigating purposes, such as a

sector, a plane scale, and the like. These articles
I conveyed to my cabin, and then emerging "with
the hand-glass I flourished it before Florence's
face. She recoiled and shut her eyes and put up
her hands and cried, No, she aren't look. So I
gave the glass to Aunt Damaris, who immediately
fell to exploring her own countenance, saying, well,
on the whole she did not look so dreadful as she
had feared ; whereupon Florence said she did not
mind taking just one peep.

But it was now time for me to bundle on deck ;
so, taking the brush and comb, I sallied forth, called
to the cook and bade him get them washed and
carried aft to the ladies, and then joined the
bo'sun. It was seven o'clock ; the sun was still fairly
high in the west, and away about three points on
the port bow was Amsterdam Island, distant about
thirteen or fourteen miles. It lay green as spring
grass against the sky, with the large reddish-coloured
clouds sailing over it into the east. Astern, nothing
was to be seen, nor on either hand. The sun was
rising and falling among the lumps of vapour which
were coming up in shoals out of the western sea,
and whenever he hove himself clear of one of those
bodies the fast-reddening light would come down in
XL perfect rain, gushing into the hollows of the seas
till they looked as deep again as they were, and
filling out the eastern seaboard in a manner to
make the water-line there appear leagues further

off than the western horizon ; and a fine sight it

was, I can tell you, to watch the effect of this

lifting sunshine when a cloud drove up to the orb

and seemed, with its shadows, to shoulder up the

gush of light clear off the siu-face of the ocean into

the level sky where it vanished, presently to

reappear in our wake and come with a leap along

the snow of it and the breaking brows of the surges,

till the brig would be bathed in the pink glory ;

while, scuppers under, and the wind flashing fair

into her topsails with a screech as it split upon the

rigging and with a moan as it swept out of the

canvas, she drove jumping and groaning through

it, dragging her bed of foam forwards with her as

she went.

Heading as we were, first the southern, then the
western, and then the northern portions of the
island would be opened and compassed by us ; and
I might be as sure as fate that if there were people
there they would spy us coming. The flying light
threw the land up clear and keen in the field of the
telescope — that was a very good glass, though its
coat was deplorably ragged and old — and I'd seethe
green of plenty of vegetation there, and an
island very much more cheerful and habitable to
behold than the hollow sterile crater-rock on which
we had passed the night. But, look as I would,
there was no appearance of a signal of any kind to
be seen on the south and east side of it. I swept

the rugged line and foreground of the water with
extraordinary care, but nothing resembling a boat
was to be discerned ; though I reckoned that if any
of the Stratford's people had found an ass-lum
there, they'd make haste to put off and intercept us
when they saw the brig heading dead for the island.
I went into the cabin to overhaul the charts, and
coming across one of the Indian Ocean, with the
pricking of half a dozen voyages upon it, I
examined it to make sure of my navigation, for I
had no desire to plump the Sarah Jane on a sunken
reef hereabouts ; and, finding the coast clear, returned
on deck, and stood conversing with the
bo'sun while the sun sank lower and lower, and the
island on the lee bow grew bigger and greener with
the flush of the setting daylight upon it, and a
coming and going of its emerald hues as the cloud
shadows swept over it. Yet the sun was still above
the water when the land was but a few miles
distant, plain in the glass as a man's hand to his
eyes, and the surf ringing it with the gleam of
ivory.

'Tm afraid we shall find nobody there, bo'sun,"
said I.

'' I'm afraid so, too, sir," he replied, letting the
glass fall from his face. *' There's plenty of stuff
to make a smoke with, anyhow : there's plenty of
clear top for a signal, too, and we're close enough
to see a pocket-handkerchief if such a thing was

hoisted. If none of oui* people are there where
are they, sir ? "

Picked up, or drowned, or still knocking about
one of the three, certainly : for we know they're
not on St. Paul's, and I'm afraid they're not
yonder."

Aunt Damaris and Florence joined us to look;
and forward you could see all the men hanging
over the rail staring at the land. Fathom by
fathom we drove along, the old brig splashing
savagely as she dived, and trembling under the
pressure that was urging her ; her bowsprit pointed
to give the island a clear berth, and the sun,
whose lower limb was close to the water, nearly
abeam ; fixedly I watched the land as it slowly
drew aft past the starboard bathed on to abaft
the foregoing, and so sternwards, until the red
glory creeping up and up the green slopes till the
topmost heights looked like burning gold, suddenly
melted upon the blue of the sky and burned in the
clouds beyond ; and when I withdrew my eye from
the glass the sun was gone, and the greenish seas
were rolling up to us out of an horizon that was
like a whirlpool of crimson haze.

'wheel there!" I sung out, "let her go off.
Bo'sun, get the yards braced in for rounding into
the eastwards."

This was done, and the wind, by being brought
aft, gave us a more comfortable deck. Cm-seeing

VOL. ni. z

and rolling, as only an old waggon in ballast knows
how, the Sarah Jane swept along a north-east
course, sending the island veering away on the
starboard quarter, and opening the northern and
eastern sides of the land that was fast taking an
olive-coloured loom in the deepening twilight.

'' Stand by and heave-to," said I to the bo'sun.
'ewe must give our hopes a chance. But I very
much fear it'll be idle waiting."

There was still a little twilight left when, with
her main topgallant sail stowed, and the mainsail
and foresail hauled up, the brig's helm was jut down,
and she was hove to with her head to the northwards.
There was a flare-tin aboard, and from
time to time we burnt this over the rail, the turpentine
making a great glare that illuminated the brig
from the eyes to the taffrail ; and the light was so
strong that every time it burnt itself out it left our
sight useless for a spell, and the night seemed
as black as thunder till the white foam showed
again, and we saw the island like a lump of indigo
down to leeward. But no response was made :
no light was shown ; and no boat appeared, though
the merest phantom of one must have been spied,
had it been there, by the eager ej^es which hung
over the bulwarks gazing and searching and
probing the swarming waters with a sight intensified
by eagerness to succour those who had been
our shipmates.

'* There's no chance, sir," said the bo'sun to me
after we had been hove to two hours, during which
the brig had drifted away to the eastward, till the
dark lump of land hung fair on the weather quarter.
If there's e'er a soul on that island our flare must
ha' been visible to 'em ; they'd know the meaning,
and if they had a boat they'd launch it ; failing
that, they'd kindle a fire to let us know they
were there. Mr. Seymour, ye '11 find that rock as
desolate as St. Paul's."

That's what I think. But what do the men
say ? If they choose, we'll 'bout ship and stand off
and on till daylight."

The watch off duty had gone below, which was a
pretty good hint that they had abandoned all idea
of there being anybody to save off that island.
Shilling called to the men who were on deck, and
put the case to them. Should Mr. Seymour stand
oft' and on during the night, and wait for the morning
before sailing away? They answered that
they were quite willing, but they were afraid it
would be of no use. "If," said one of them, " the
people fetched that island on the same day as we
fetched St. Paul's, they'd have their boats, for the
weather was too fine to do 'em hurt. If they had
their boats and was there, they'd have watched off
for us whenever they see the brig hauling into
view. No boat appearing', and no sign basin' been
made of there being life aboard Amsterdam

Island, my notion is, sii', that we'd do no good by
stopping."

All agreeing in this Yievr, I bade them once again
look over the side and have a good stare round ;
and then, having lingered another half-horns, I
ordered the helm to be shifted, and the yards
braced square for an easterly course. It gave me a
kind of wrench to go away, though it afterwards
turned out to be the right thing to do. I stood
peering into the dimness astern till the bit of land
that had gloomed out black and magnified even at
the distance of three miles, faded into the general
darkness, and where it had been, you saw nothing
but a star or two low down, with the white water
of our wake rushing out that way. The strong
wind blew fair over the stern, and every inch of
canvas the brig carried that would draw to a following
breeze was set, and the old tub wallowed and
splashed along her dark course. '' This time last
night ! " thought I ; and I looked aloft at the darksome
spaces of canvas, as shadowy as clouds over
the deck-houses, and then away into the south-west
blackness where the island of St. Paul's stood, and
where the night lay darkest, and where the eye
found no other light than the pallid glimmer of
froth creaming with a long simmering sound out of
the inky running coils of water, and pictured the
hut there, and the women under the boat's sail,
and myself crouched in the corner near the door.

To think of that, to feel that week after week of
such nights as this might have rolled over our
heads without bringing us succour, was something,
let me tell 3'ou, to force a wild shudder out of a man ;
and it was to get away from my own thoughts more
than for any other reason that I walked into the
deck-house where the old lady and my pet were,
and sat down to yarn with them awhile by the light
of the old hanging lamed that swung by a stanchion
amidships of the structure.

Chapter Xii.

RESCUED.

And now, boys, having come to this point, it's
about time that I tm-ned to and ran this story
ashore ; for if you haven't had enough of the sea,
I have ; and I'm beginning to long for the sight of
shops and streets and trees, just as you are, maybe,
for the conclusion, to hear what the end of all this
business was, and how my courtship finished. So
the chief incidents of the next six days I'll give you
in log-book form, making the journal look readable
by dropping out the dates and the day's work and
other items which swell out sea-diaries till they're
little more than Greek to landsmen.

All that night the strong westerly wind chased
the Sarah Jane with a middling run of sea that
helped the old bucket along bravely, and the log
sometimes gave as much as six and a half knots.
I was up, off and on, throughout the night, sometimes
in the bo'sun's watch, sometimes in William
Somers's, and always found both men alive and

keeping a bright look-out, stumping one side of the
deck, with a chap grinding at the wheel to meet the
wild islay of the frisky old fabric, the braces taut
as the backstairs, the wind shrilling out of the
swollen concavities, and the thunder of parted seas
under the bows, coming aft against the wind with
a noise like the falling of a cataract where water
smites water and roars into foam.

But when I came on deck next morning I found
the wind east-south-east, bleak as November in the
Channel, a thick horizon, smoke-coloured clouds
rolling up with a spitting of rain that was swept
past the mast horizontally, and the brig leaning
down to her covering-board on the starboard tack,
close-hauled with single reefs in her topsails, and
her foresail looking as if but a little more weight
of wind was needed to make eyes in it. Oh, it
was a dismal sight for a man to come on deck to
look at, and it made lies of the charts that set
down the prevailing winds as westerly. You need
only have glanced over the weather-quarter and
seen the short oily wake of the brig floating out to
windward to understand my feelings. Sailing !
why, it was all leeway : and the road we had
traversed last night we were harking back upon,
driving backwards beam-first, without an atom of
help for it. I didn't mind this so much at first,
and, indeed, put a good face upon it before Aunt
Damaris and Florence, telling them that though to

be sure we were not lying well up for Australia,
our bows were more that way than our stern, and
that there was no use in hoping for fair winds
every day; but I got restless and anxious when
next morning came and found the wind still blowing
strong out of the east, the sky dirty, the horizon
thick as mud, and the seas of a stormy green, as
they slanted their curling ridges at the diving bows
of the brig and tumbled over her weather-rail
before the drifting hull could wallow out of the
trough.

After breakfast that morning I went into the
mate's cabin to have a talk with him, but found
him too ill for conversation. So instead of doing
what I intended — taking his judgment as to
whether it would be wise to make a fair wind of
it by heading north and seeking a fair breeze in
parallels nearer the equator for a run to the Cape
of Good Hope instead of trying for Australia — I
attempted nothing more than a little sympathy,
feeling all the while even the uselessness of that,
for if ever a man lay dying, he did ; you saw the
shadow of what was coming on his hollow face,
and his eyes had a dim yearning look as though
for some time they had been striving to stare past
the present, peering for a glimpse of a new kind
of light whose dawn had not yet come. He had
tasted no food, and I asked him if there was anything
aboard the brig he could fancy — if there was

anything, indeed, that could be done for him. He
answered, no : he had no appetite ; if there were a
doctor or medicine he felt he might be brought
back to life, he'd get some ease he was sure, and
he only needed to be fi-ee of pain, he thought, to
get better. But as it was, he told me he had no
hope; and the tears came into the eyes of the
lonely, dying sailor as he said it.

The ladies knew that the mate was a sick man,
but how bad he was I had not told them, nor
could they imagine, for they had never set eyes
upon him, nor did they once tell me that they had
heard him groaning or complaining in his cabin.
"When I left him this time, I found Florence and
Aunt Damaris at the table looking over a book or
two they had come across in the captain's berth.

'' I wish this weather would clear up," said the
old lady. '' The au's too raw and damp for the
deck, and yet it's quite intolerable to be confined
to this house and tumbled about in it as if one
were in a barrel rolling downhill."

"It'll make home the sweeter when we get
there," I replied.

I shall be glad to sight a ship," she continued.
'* It will not matter which way she steers. Nothing
that we can encounter is Hkely to be more slow in
her speed and violent in her movements than this
brig."

'* How is the poor mate ? " asked Florence, with

a glance to let me know she was sorry that her-aunt
was in a bothersome mood. The darling
could see I was worried myself, and asked the
question to take the old lady off me.

"If he lives through the night," I answered,
'sit's as much as I dare hope for him."

They both started. "Is he dying ! is he so
near death as that ? " exclaimed Florence in a low
voice full of awe and pity.

Poor, poor fellow ! " cried Aunt Damaris.

And he is lying alone there," said Florence,
without anybody to attend to him ! Oh, Jack,
you must let me go to him. It must be dreadful
to die with people talking near you, and yet nobody
coming to say a prayer, to utter a word, to show
that you are thought of."

I told her to go by all means, saying that her
Presence would be sure to comfort the poor fellow,
who might talk to her and speak to her of his
home with more freedom than he would venture
upon with one of his own sex ; and then I stepped
out on deck, being indeed too much troubled about
the weather and the thoughts it put into my head,
to dwell upon the mate, though in easier times the
dying man would not, I think, have lacked plenty
of sympathy and constant attention at my hands.

Shilling had charge of the watch, and I found
him near the wheel, staring aloft at the topsails
dark-sith the damp, with a look now and then at

the weather horizon that was near to us with the
thickness, whilst the brig laboured distressingly
amidst the hollows which came yawning out of the
smother, green as bottle-glass and laced with froth
that the wind now and again would chip up and
blow over the rail.

This is the second day of this beastly easterly
wind," said I to him. *'I wouldn't call it serious
now if I could reckon upon a fair wind tomorrow
or even the next day, to hold for a month or two,
or to drive us into the arms of a ship. But it has
an abominably settled look''

"Yes, it do look settled, certainly," he replied,
shewing his moist face round the sea. "Whoever
says westerly breezes prevail in these waters hasn't
got much of the truth in him."

"I'd laugh at such weather'' I continued, "if
this brig could sail. But what's to be done with
an old cask like this, that, even with the weather
braces checked, drifts to leeward like the smoke
from her galley chimney, and almost as fast."

'' There's no use talking of watching with her,,
that's plain," replied the bo'sun.

*' "We have barely provisions for two months,"
said I. " The ladies have no clothes but what they
stand up in, and we Stratford's men are pretty
nearly as badly* off. My fancy is to shift the helm
and stretch away north and risk it ; but think of
the wind, after we had made a few hundred miles

of westering, coming on to blow again from the
westwards ! It's a fearful job to be in a vessel
that won't go to windward. If we don't mind our
eye, bo'sun, we may be knocking about in the
Sarah Jane four months hence, and making a
worse shipwreck of it than had we stuck to St.
Paul's."

He tried to encourage me by saying there was
no fear of that ; we were bound to meet a ship ; if
not, we were sure to drive along somehow and
reach civilized land. But I was in low spirits and
unable to take a hopeful view. Why, even my
former assured belief that we should sight a ship
long before our provisions ran out and be succoured
by her, became but a dim faint thing when I
looked into the thickness, and reflected upon the
huge surface of water we were upon, how little of it
even in clear weather we were able to see, and how
ships passing us at a distance of six or seven leagues
only would be of no more account to us than were
the great Indian Ocean navigated by any other
fabric than om*s.

I remained on deck all the morning, trusting
that the weather might clear and enable me to
get a view of the sun ; and praying for a shift of
wind and a visible horizon, with a mind worried by
thinking whether we ought to hold on as we were,
or to up helm and bear away north-west. At half-past
twelve I went into the cabin for a bit of

dinner, and there found Florence and her aunt
fresh from the dying man, both of them looking
terribly dejected.

We have been praying with him, and reading
from a Bible he has," said Florence. "He is so
very gi-hateful. Oh, Jack, he is dyuig fast. He
fainted twice after telling us eagerly about his
mother, and how, when he is gone, she will have
no one to sux)poi*t her. He knows he is dying, and
oh," she cried, with her colon-less face full of a
kind of horror, "it's dreadful to notice how he
recoils from the idea of being thrown into the sea."

He'll not know — he'll not know it, Florence,
when it happens," exclaimed the old lady. "Where
I to die away from Sydney I'd rather be buried in
the sea than in a chm*chyai*d."

"Yes," I said, "the ocean's a sweeter and
pm*er cemetery than an acre of ground full of
worms, and a hammock is a better coffin than an
oak box. But for God's sake don't let us talk of
death and horrors." And I started off at a rattle
upon whatever cheerful thing that came into my
head, sitting down beside Florence and fondling
and soothing her, till I had brought something like
colonia her face again. But presence us ! the
situation was a wild one for those two to be in — a
dying man hard by to emphasize their miserable
condition, a crazy old brig staggering God knows
where, through weather fit to make a man hanpj

himself, jumping, rolling, heaving, wobbling in a
manner to fill every bone in one's body with an
aching as sharp as rheumatism, amidships of the
biggest track of ocean in the world, with eight weeks'
provisions aboard for a voyage that might last as
many months if ever it found a termination. I
tell you, old Alphonso Hawke's palace at Clifton
rose up in my mind when I glanced round the
Sarah Jane's deck-house and contrasted the beggarly
meal of a crab or two and a piece of coarse salt
junk that went sprawling about the table, with the
dinner Hawke had given us in his dining-room
when I was looking love into my pet's eyes over
the foaming rim of a champagne glass. And still —
my darling was with me ! That was something,
after all, to put sunshine into the brig, though the
sky lay like a lead-coloured sheet over the vessel ;
this old ocean that I was cursing and loathing for
the foul winds of it had given her to me — the
beautiful flower was in my breast, mine and
nobody's else, come what might, whether we
fetched England or Australia or whether we sank
in each other's arms to the bottom of the sea;
and though this last fancy was not over inspiriting,
the rest was all so true that it put a
sort of gaiety into me, and with my arm round
Florence's waist, letting the old lady think my
design was to support her, I chattered myself into
something like good spirits and had them both

smiling soon and even laughing, tliougli under
their breath, for the sense of the dying man behind
the bulkhead there ^Yas like a hush upon them.

He died that night. It was as black as pitch on
deck, the seas breaking over the brig and the wind
thick with salt water and squalls of rain; and I
went into the deck-house to take the shelter of it fora
spell, and when there, thought I'd step into the
mate's berth and see how he did. I knocked, but
Aunt Damaris said, *' He'll be too feeble to answer
you ; he could scarcely speak to Florence when she
was with him about two hours ago." So I opened
the door and went in, and spied him by the light
of the cabin lamp lying along the deck with his
face down and his arms stretched out. I fancied
he was in a faint, that he had wanted help, and got
out of his bunk and fallen down for weakness, and
swooned, till I looked close and saw a sluggish
black trickle on the plank his mouth was against ;
and then, turning him gently, I knew by the first
feel of him that he was stone dead, for the rigidity
of a corpse that's growing cold is a thing not easily
mistaken. God knows how he came to be on the
deck. There may have come to him a death-struggle
that robed him over the edge of his bunk,
or he had risen to summon help, being too feeble
to shout for it. Anyway, there he was, dead. So
I raised him — finding him to be shockingly light,
little more, indeed, than a skeleton, and put him

into his bunk again; and then, just giving the
news to Florence and her aunt as I stepped past, I
told a couple of hands to lay aft with a hammock
and needles and twine, and stitch the poor fellow
up and carry him away forward for the sailor's last
toss when the morning came.

It hardly needed this thing to sadden me. Of
all the nights I had passed at sea none had ever
found me so dejected, so anxious, so oppressed in
mind as that one. I was weak enough to imagine
some dreadful ill was soon to befall us, and that
the distress of my spirits was a presentiment of it.
The truth is, I was heavily weighed down by the
sense of my responsibility. Here was I in sole
charge of all the lives aboard this brig, and, as if
that were not enough, one of them was so infinitely
precious to me that the value of it made a load of
the obligation almost too heavy for a young fellow
of twenty-five years old, and who for three years
had scarcely set eyes on the sea, to stand up
under. They say that the need of preserving the
life of one dear to you puts nerve into you, and
will give you a Ind of preternatural strength when
you want it. This may be true of novel-heroes,
but it's false if said of me. Why, if it hadn't been
for Florence being with me, if I'd known she was
safe at home, I'd have found our shipwreck and
what followed in the island and aboard the brig
little more than a trifling sea-incident. No, it was

the thought of her that kept me worrying. Oh,
mates, it was true enough that I might forget her
hardships and peril in the jo* her presence gave
me when I was in the cabin talking to her, fondling
her, making her look at me that I might see her
heart shining in her beautiful ej^es, but it was
otherwise when on that black evening I'd stop to
peer at her through a deck-house window and then
carry my gaze away to the motionless blackness
overhead in which the brig's spars were no more
to be seen than had she been a dismasted hulk,
and watch the jump of her which you might have
followed by noticing the dive of the black outline
forward into the faint glimmering swirl she hove
up in yeast and snow, and listen to the wild raving
of the wind aloft and the rattling of spray falling
upon the decks like a thunder-shower, and think of
the tall light hull driving dead to leeward as though
she would have me understand that no favouring
wind could blow to urge her forwards, but that the
first adverse breeze that followed would settle her
back to the old spot again, and so leave us nothing
under heaven to hope for but rescue from a passing
ship. Yet though my boding was the most reasonable
thing in the world, I don't forgive myself
for it, it was unfairly, and I'll not resent your
sneers, though I'll ask you to remember that I had
passed through enough anxiety to strain my nerves
cruelly taut, and that my having command of
VOL. in. 2 a

the brig forced more harassing thought into me
than was likely to trouble the others who looked
to my brains to haul them clear of their jeopardy,
and not to their own.

Next morning found the weather unchanged,
save that the wind was blowing a point more
easterly. The sea had somewhat increased in
height, and the brig was rolling with her decks
full of water. I had the well sounded the moment
I came on deck, but found the vessel staunch,
which I accepted almost as a miracle, for she had
been labouring heavily for many hours and her
creaking and groaning might have made any man
believe that she was working all the oakum out of
her. The' haze brought the water-line within a
mile of us. William Somers was on deck, and he
said to me, '' Most unlucky weather this, sir. That
island o' you'll be heaven' in sight presently
again, I allow. We've done notion for the last
three days but to drift back to where we started
from, and with the height of side the Sairey Jane
shows, ye may reckon we've done all two mile an
hour in that way."

I've made up my mind, Somers," said I, " when
we've buried yom poor mate to up helm and use
this wind. It's idle trying for Australia. Ay, and
it'll be idle trying for the Cape. There's nothing
for it but to try and run into fine weather and get
taken out of this mud barge by a ship. Why, even

with a gale of wind astern, should we fetch the
Australian coast in six weeks '? No, and yet we have
but a few weeks' provisions aboard, living as we
now do on half allowance, which, if it weren't for a
bit of pickled goat's meat now and again and those
crabs which will be all gone shortly, either through
being devoured or through putrefying, would pretty
nearly starve the two ladies."

"Well," he replied, with a slow look round, ''I
think ye're about right, Mr. Seymour, sir. If we
can't get more provisions there's notion to be done
with the brig by sailing of her. When the vessel
as we spoke was willing' for to take us aboard and
let the Sairey Jane go, I was again that offer because
I see the poor mate didn't relish the notion of
giving up ; but he's gone, and unless we want to
follow him, I dunno that we could do better than
ship ourselves aboard the first craft as may be
willing to take us."

'just so," said I; "and look at the brig! Is
she worth salving? There's not a ha'porth of
cargo in her, and I question if she'd fetch fifty
pounds at an auction. She's only fit to scuttle, so
as not to be in the way of the navigation. You'll
get no captain to put one of his mates aboard to
sail her to a port, and though I've promised to stick
to her if you and the others who formed her crew
refused to leave her, I'm too anxious to get clear of
her not to earnestly hope you wish the same thing."

"Give us the chance," said he in his slow way,
"an' I don't think ye'll find us willing to stop."

This answer was to my fancy ; for, confound the
fellow ! I had really believed that he and his mates
would stick to the brig if only for the wages they'd
take up when they got ashore, and the promise I
had made to stay with them if I could get nobody
from a passing ship to navigate the old hulk stuck
in my throat and was the most indigestible memory
that ever hung in a lump in my mind till William
Somers gave me that answer.

Well, we all went to breakfast at about a quarter
before eight. The boy belonging to the Sarah Jane
who waited upon us in the cabin came aft with the
tea, and Florence and her aunt emerged from their
berth. The first thing the old lady said was to
ask me if we were making any progress towards
Australia.

"Not an atom," said I. "If we're bound anywhere
at all, it's to the island we're from."

"My gracious!" she squealed, and Florence,
stretching out her hands, cried out, " Oh, Jack,
what are wee to do ? "

I made my darling sit down by me and explained
to her and her aunt that the wind was blowing
strong from the east, that an easterly wind, like a
cat, has nine lives, that we were not sailing at all,
but drifting dead to the westwards, that the weather
was as thick as mud and looked as if it meant to

keep so, and that when we had buried the mate
I intended to square away for the Cape of Good
Hope.

Nd suppose the wind should change and blow
from the west' said Aunt Damaris.

"Miss Hawke," I replied, "there's no use in
supposing. Let me give you some of this tea.
Lord, it looks very yellow this morning-quite
forecastle tea, I declare. But no matter : we must
consider milk bilious, and imagine that the doctor
has ordered us not to drink it."

This part of our fearful voyage would not be so
very awful if we had only more clothes," moaned
my poor little pet.

There's no use complaining, Florence," said
Aunt Damaris. " Mr. Jack cannot buy clothes for
us."

"Though I would if I could, my own," cried 1,
grasping Florence's hand; "ay, though they had
to sink me over the side with a deep-sea lead at my
feet to come at them."

"Oh, I know you would do anything for me,
Jack, and I am very wicked to complain," said she,
with the flash of a tear in her eye. I kissed her
with a noble disregard of Aunt Damaris's presence,
and the old lady, as was now customary with her,
.said nothing. In truth, ever since the poor thing
had found out who I was, she had never been in a
position to protest, and I felt that every kiss I gave

Florence in the presence of her aunt furnished her
with one more argument to use by-and-by in my
favour when she and her brother should come
to correspond about or talk over this singular
courtship.

When we had done our very wretched breakfast
and miserable as it was, half of it was lost
through the abominable jumping and rolling, and
sickening squelching of the brig — I told them that
I was going to bury the mate, and advised them to
stop where they were, for it would be a cold, wet,
and dismal service, and only fit to deepen their
melancholy. They agreed to remain in the deck-house.
So looking into their cabin and finding
a church service among the books there, I went on
deck and told Shilling, who had relieved Somers
to get the body brought to the gangway and send the
crew aft. Lucky it was for Aunt Damaris and my
darling they were not present. Why, to be sure it
does not do the most delicate-hearted of us harm
to be brought face to face with whatever comes
straight from God, as death does, but so many
things which had nothing to do with death were
mixed up with this sea-funeral that it was like to
become a memory that could not benefit any one it
took hold of ; and I say, therefore, that I was glad
that Florence did not form one of the crowd who
stood upon the brig's maindeck. First of all, think
of our situation, the perils we were fresh from.

oui* black outlook; and bearing that in mind,
endeavour to view the picture with the thoughts
such a position as we were in would put into you ;
the shroud of dark sky with bits of greyish scud
sweeping along it, a girdle of damp thickness that
would contract at times till it seemed to close
around the brig in blowing rain, a high green sea
with hard ridges which dealt the brig blows that
kept every timber of her quivering, and every now
and then a white crest curing over the forward
weather-rail, when the round bows were stooped
into a dark hollow, and washing up to our knees in
foam in the scuppers, whilst the brig heeled over
to the blow with a frenzied sweep of her spars that
brought the heart of the close-reefed topsail with a
kind of yearning thump against the mast ; and then
the corpse on the rail ready to tilt. Oh, mates ! 3'ou
know what those stitched hammocks are, with the
lump of holystone in the clews ! the meaning of
what's inside stealing out through the rounded,
pointed shape, and the seas snapping for it under
the bends, and the rugged olive-green of the horizon
waving and slanting close in the dimness which
will open a bit at times to the squall that has
rushed with a shriek through the wet masts and
flies white into the gray smother to leeward.

Glad was I when the ceremony was over and the
body gone. You saw poor old Somers stare with a
sort of wild wistfulness beyond the rail when the

hammock flashed out of sight and the brig rolled
wearily to windward with a hundred cries in her rigging
and a long moaning sob of water washing fair
along her lee bends, as if his tough heart had gone
overboard with his dead shipmate and he was
waiting for it to come back and make a man of him
again. And staggering and lurching, but all as
quiet as mice, the men were making their way forward
when I sang out to them to man the fore and
main-braces and stand by to haul the yards round
square as the helm was put over.

I'll tell you why," I called to them, thinking
an explanation was due to them, and guessing they
wanted it from the look in their faces ; " this wind
has been blowing for three days and nights, and if
it hasn't drifted us pretty near to St. Paul's, you
may take it, my lads, that that and Amsterdam
Island are not far off. It's useless thinking of
Australia in the face of an easterly wind and ina
brig that won't go to windward. So the bo'sun
and Somers and I have come to the conclusion
that we can't do better than up helm, and let this
breeze blow us west-northwest for the Cape of Good
Hope — or rather for clear weather, and the first
ship we can signal that'll take us off this scow-bank.
That's it, boys. Wheel there ! let her go off
quietly. Watch her as she goes, my lad. Ease
away your lee fore, and Weather main-braces."

And I ran aft to the wheel, to watch the squab

hull as she fell off. With the fore-topsail sheeted
home, and the foresail loosed ready for setting, she
rolled and wallowed round on her old keel dryly
and handsomely. Every reef was shaken out, and
the yards masthead, the topgallant sail set, and
the mainsail with the weather-clew up, and with a
couple of hands stationed forward on the look-out,
for I had not the least idea of our position, having
seen nothing of the sun for three days, and incapable
of judging our drift owing to the unguessahle
send of the seas which had helped her along faster
than the wind had shoved her, the Sarah Jane,
yielding to the pressure, went staggering forwards
with a fierce sputtering and creaming of foam
under her hows, pitching so heavily as to make
one's legs useless without one's hands, her course
west-northwest, and the wind yelling in half a gale
over the weather-quarter out of the impenetrable
mist.

Well, this turning tail proved a wise course after
all, because for three more blessed days and nights
did that east wind how, thickening sea and sky at
times till the brig was a mere phantom in it, swept
onwards. I never got an observation ; and within
fifty or a hundred miles, maybe, I did not know
where we were ; but this did not trouble me,
because, as we knew to our sorrow, we had countless
leagues of sea-room before and behind and on
cither hand of us, and, as we steered, were bound

to run down the Cape of Good Hope if we could
only hold on as we were long enough. I'd congratulate
myself heartily on having determined to
make use of this wind when I'd come on deck
and find the Sarah Jane still sterling before it,
with her bowsprit at north-west and the tall dark
seas chasing her, with a gray albatross, perhaps,
screaming in the hollow, and think of the picture
we should have made had we still kept the brig's
nose at the surges, the yards against the lee-rigging,
nothing showing but a narrow band of
topsail, the decks streaming and the vessel blowing
away, like a buoy that's gone adrift.

This regular sailing moreover put us all into
good spirits; the tall sides of the vessel kejDt
her dry, the men were no longer being washed
out of the deck-house by the tons of water which
the brig when close-hauled had taken over her
weather-bow ; the motion, though violent enough,
was regular, a long, sweeping seething run up,
followed by a slanting floating rush down, then a
kind of staggering roll in the trough upon the half-sea
there, and a bit of a lull on deck with the
canvas shouting above, and so on and so on, as
rhythmical in its way as the stroke of a pendulum
; and though there was no lack of discomfort,
yet a deal of heart came into the faces
of us all I noticed ; more hope to Aunt Damaris's,
more life and light to my pet's, as hour after hour

went by, and found the old brig with her clumsy
wings outstretched, thrusting through the snow of
the surges as if she were as anxious to sight a civilized
coast as we were, and knew the road to it now
that she had got her head west.

In all those days nothing was sighted, nor was
that surprising in the midst of a smother that
would sometimes make the near masthead
appear dim; yet, for all that, a bright look-out
was kept, and there was no need to tell the men
to skin their eyes either, as the whalemen say,
for all hands understood the case exactly'. Our
dependence was upon a rescue by a passing
ship ; our eight weeks' provisions would soon be a
month's, then a fortnight's, then a day's, and all
hands had seen enough of the Sarah Jane's
weatherly qualities not to need instruction to
perceive that, unless we were taken out of her,
why, long after the last fragment of biscuit had
been devoured and the last drop of water supped,
we might still be a thousand miles away from
port.

^\'ell, the night of the sixth day, dating fi'om the
first of the easterly wind, came and found the gale
for it was half a one, anyway, — moderating with
a clearance around the sea. I turned in at midnight
very anxious, wondering what we were to do
if it should come to blow from the westwards, or
even from the north, and for half an hour lay desperately

restless and anxious under the old blanket
that formed my bedclothes, till being dog-tired, as
sailors say, I fell asleep and slept till daybreak.
The thump of something against the deck-house
outside aroused me, and hearing the sound of
voices singing out and ropes flung down, I instantly
went on deck and found the watch bracing
the yards round to a light southerly wind. Astern
the sky was brightening fast, and the pink of the
coming sun was soaring ups into the blue from
]behind the sea and floating along the water there.
The weather was as clear as glass, a few stars
languishing low down past the bows, and a
southerly swell coming up in indigo folds ruffled
by the breeze.

"Well," said I to Somers, who had charge,
^' thank God that the wind is not west or north,
anyway. Here's a wonderful change since midnight.
Anything in sight, I wonder? "

I was looking astern when I said this, and as I
spoke the sky there was burning fiercely, and on a
sudden the rim of the sun shot up like a gush of
flame, and in a breath it was brilliant daylight and
the firmament a dome of deep blue with a wreath
or two of cloud in the south and a brightening of
the azure into the east till it was all white glory.
I took my sight off the dazzling quarter, for it was
more than I could bear, and looked searchingly
shone the sea-line. All at once a man who had

been coiling down a rope close to where I was
standing, cried in a breathless sort of fashion,
Why, what's that there ? Smoke is it ? " With
one hand against his forehead, he pointed with the
other a little way to the right of the sun, staring
without a blink at the dazzle. Low as his cry was,
others a little way beyond heard him, and three of
them shouted in one voice, *'A steamer's smoke,
sir ! " and joined us, pointing and bending and
peering. Then I could see it plainly enough, a
fine web-like dark line breaking away out of the
haze of light and floating into the north. *' Get
me the glass ! " I cried. It was brought and
placed in my hand. I pointed it to where the
line of smoke terminated, and gradually worked
the lens along to where the vapor* issued from
the sea, by that means accustoming my eye to the
brilliance there. Again and again I had to drop
the telescope to clear m}* sight of the water which
the brightness brought into it, and all the while the
men stood round me so still that I could hear their
deep breathing. x\t last I sprang out of my kneeling
posture.

Men, she's heading om* way. The funnel and
spars are lifting quick. She's coming along handover
hand ! " I shouted.

A wild cheer broke from them.

'where's the ensign?" I bawled. 'find it
and hoist it, jack down, at the topgallantmast."

Somers sprawled over to a small flag-locker close
against the wheel, and hauled out an old ensign.

"Let go the topgallant halliards," I sung out,
'that the sail may be out of the road of the
signal. Bend on and hoist away ! up with it —
up with it ! " and in a moment the flag, jack
blown, was mast-headed and fluttering its red
folds fair upon the breeze.

All hands were now on deck, for there is somehow
a magic in a piece of exciting news at sea
that will rouse out sleepers without a touch of
the hand or a sound of the voice : and they
all stood near the deck-house — a middling thick
group — staring into the east. I was running to
sall Florence and Aunt Damaris when I saw
them coming.

'' What is it, Mr. Jack — what is it ? " cried
out the old lady in a sharp voice raw with
excitement.

Look ! '* I answered, pointing.

"Aunt, it's a steamer ! " shrieked Florence, and
the sunlight flashed in her eyes as she strained
them wide open.

Will she take us off the brig ! Will she take
ITS off the brig ! " called out the poor old lady, like
one shouting in a fever.

Pray be calm, Miss Hawke," said I. " See up
yonder —there's a distress signal they're bound to
inquire into the meaning of. Oh, they'll take us

off, have no fear." And asking Shilling for the
glass, I again knelt and examined the approaching
vessel.

She was coming along at a fair pace, for when I
looked this time her funnel was hove above the
gleaming sea-line and her masts, whether two or
more, came into one as she headed dead for us.
Yet the splendour of the morning bothered the eye,
and it took me a tidy while to make sure that she
was steering right on for us.

We'd better heave the brig to. Shilling," said
I, " and get the gig ready for boarding the
steamer."

So the vessel was brought close with her maintopsail
to the mast, courses hauled up and staysail
halliards let go ; then the gig that had been stowed
forward bottom-up was hoisted over the side ready
for use, and there being nothing more to do, I
recommended the men to get their breakfast, and
remained aft with Aunt Damaris and Florence
watching the steamer grow as she saving up over
the shining round of ocean. Hand in hand with
my darling, I stood answering as best I could the
feverish questions the old lady fired into me when
the men were gone forward.

What am I to make of my thoughts with pen
and ink when I recall those that rose up in me as
I'd glance from the pale, sweet, eager face of my
sweetheart, with her hair catching a clear gold

tinge off the eastern sky and her red lips parted
and her fingers tightening and relaxing upon mine
with the emotions which the sight of the coming
steamer put into her ; as I'd glance from her, I say,
round upon the glorious morning that had opened
out of the thick night and the driving gale, and
see the ocean of a heavenly blue, lifting along in
gentle folds to the sides of the brig that drooped
wet into the violet declivities with a sharp flap of
her canvas aloft and a thrilling creak throughout
the length of her, and the resplendent east with
the flaming sun widening in his wake the breadth
of silver azure 'twixt him and the water, and then,
to the left of the stream of flashing light under him
in the sea, the black shape of the coming steamer
dimming the blue air beyond her with streaks of
lingering brown smoke. I endeavoured to persuade
my darling and her aunt to take some breakfast,
telling them that a full hour must pass before the
steamer would be abreast of us, but the old lady
flew at me with many violent pecks of her hatchet
face, as if I had insulted her.

*' Breakfast ! " she cried. "What in the name
of goodness, Mr. Jack, do you think we're made of
that you can imagine we could eat anything at such
a time as this I Oh, it would be positively wicked
even to feel hungry at such a moment ! " and then
after taking a wild yearning look at the steamer,
she flung up to me, hove one arm round my neck,

entreated me to forgive lier for answering me so
sharply, and begged me to tell lier, for the fiftieth
time, if there was any doubt of the vessel passing
by without taking any notice of us.

Half an hour after we had made out the smoke
of her she was plain in the glass, a hand's breadth
this side the sea-line, the white water at her forefoot
visible, and now I could make her out to be
either barque or brig-rigged, with a yellow funnel,
a high bow, a black hull, the sparkle of gilt under
her short bowsprit, and the answering pennant
flying at the main masthead. I fancied at first she
was a man-of-war by the squareness of her yards,
but I was soon undeceived by the slenderness of
her beam and the mercantile furl of her canvas.
All hands had turned up afresh and were clustered
aft watching : and so we all stood talking about
her as foot by foot she swept along, drawing
further away from the brightness in the water,
until porting her helm she stretched her length,
slowing down her engines, whilst the gleaming
stem-waves fell flat, and then she came to a dead
stop, about five hundred fathoms distant from usa
long, powerful iron ocean steamer of about
two thousand tons register burden, slightly rolling
upon the swell that made every polished object
about her — glass, brass, bright masts, wet plates
dazzle out in the sunshine as if white fires leapt
from her deck and sides.

VOL. in. 2 B

There came a hail from her bridge : what it was
I do not know. The gig was alongside : I told two
of the men to jump into her, handed Admit Damaris
and Florence over, and then followed them, singing
out to Shilling that if they refused to take all
hands, I'd return, but that the ladies must be got
aboard and left there anyhow. As we approached
the steamer I saw them unship the gangway and
throw some steps over the side. A crowd of heads
along the forward rail watched us, but the decks
were almost deserted aft, and I was pretty sure
from the appearance of the vessel that she was a
cargo boat. We swept alongside : I jumped on
the steps, handed Aunt Damaris up, then Florence,
and leaving the men in the boat, jumped on to the
deck and looked around me.

Three or four men stood near the gangway: past
them, aft, there was little to see, for the bridge
and the deck-structures abaft the engine-room —
I'm not sure of the terms steamboat men give their
fittings — hindered the view. The people who
received us stared hard. I dare say they were
astonished to see two ladies come out of such a
brig as the Sarah Jane, and from the cut of my jib
they might easily reckon that I had no concern in
that old boat.

Can I speak to the captain ? " said I to one of
them.

"Certainly," he responded; "I'm the captain."

He was a tall, hearty-looking chap, with a kind of
shyness in his manner as he glanced from me to
Aunt Damaris and Florence.

"Captain," said I, "yon have come in good
time. You find us in a had plight. These ladies
and I were passengers aboard the Australian liner
Stratford, that founded in a collision on the night
of the twenty-fifth of December "

Kindly come below, sir, and you, ladies," said
he, interrupting me ; and led the way to a companion,
down which we passed into a cabin, small
indeed for the size of the ship, but exceedingly
comfortably' and breezy ; with polished mahogany
fittings, a table, a short row of cabins on either
hand, and open spaces abaft furnished with sofas,
over which were portholes or scuttles. He asked
us to be seated, but Aunt Damaris's heart was
full; she burst into tears and fell to hysterically
thanking him for preserving us from a dreadful
fate, and in the hurry and feverislmess of her
mind was rattling out the whole of our story to
him, when Florence, who was also crying, dear
heart ! gently interrupted her and gave me a
chance to relate the yarn. This I did. The captain
listened attentively. He had known the
StmtJuNora well, and had also met httlc Thompson,
and he was much concerned and astonished when
I told him that of all five boats the gig alone had
fetched St. Paul's, and that though I had coasted

Amsterdam Island in the brig, and had hove-ta
and burnt flares, no response had been made, no
sight of anybody living had been visible.

'* Well, sir," said he, " how can I serve you ? "

By taking us all aboard this steamer. We can
do nothing with the brig; she won't go to windward;
if we're not taken out of her we must knock about
and starve, for nothing short of half a gale of wind
astern will give her headway ; " and I told him of
our struggles in her during the week, and what
stock of provisions remained.

*' How many are there of you, all told ? " I gave
him the number. ^^ Well," said he, '^'11 take you
with pleasure. But I can't do anything for the
brig. She must be let go."

She's good for nothing else," said I. " In my
opinion she ought to be scuttled, for if she's
found drifting she maj' tempt some shipmaster to
put a crew aboard, and she's bound to starve
them."

He laughed, and answered he didn't like the
notion of scuttling her. She was apparently sound,
and he might get into trouble if he sank her ; it
was one thing to succour people in distress who
claimed his assistance, but he had nothing to do
with the brig. We might scuttle her if we chose,
but he'd have no hand in it.

However, it was a matter of no interest whatever
to argue upon, so without more ado he and I went

on deck, leaving the ladies below, where, putting
his head over the side, he sung out to the men in
the gig to row aboard the brig and bring off their
mates ; and at the same time he gave orders for
one of the steamer's boats to be sent to the vessel
to fetch all the provisions that could be come
across out of her. Whilst this was doing I stood
with the captain talking. From him I learnt that
the steamer's name was the Clanwilliam , that she
was a cargo vessel full up with wool, bound fi'om
Sydney, New South "Wales, to the port of London
direct, that the only passengers aboard were his
wife and her sister, both of whom he supposed
were still abed, though the steward should rouse
them up presently if they did not make haste to
turn out, and he made me feel very comfortable in
my mind by saying he'd answer for it that they
had linen enough between them to give my two
friends a shift of what they needed.

Well, captain," said I, " I may as well tell you
that my two friends are one of them the sister and
the other a daughter of a rich Australian who lives
at Clifton, near Bristol ; they'll grant you to treat
them as passengers, and you mays depend that nobill
that your owners may send to Mr. Alphonso
Hawke will be thought too heavy."

"Oh, that'll be all right," he answered.
Alphonso Hawke ? I think I know that name.
I've heard it mentioned in Sydney. He's a father

and brother of the ladies below, eh ? Well, well I
I'm glad to be the means of helping them."

The chief mate of the steamer joining us, once
again I spun them the whole yarn of our shipwreck,
our day and night on the island of St.
Paul's, the sufferings of the women, our horrible
spell of navigation in the Sarah Jane, the cause that
had brought the brig to the island, the death of the
mate, and the rest of the eventful story. It was
like being in a dream to look at the old hooker
yonder rolling wearily upon the swell with the
boats alongside her, and then at the long slope of
deck running up into the turtle-back shelter in the
steamer's bows, at the waste-pipe against the
yellow funnel blowing out a flashing of white
steam, at the boats on chocks on either side the
funnel, at the barque-rigged spars slanting aloft
into the blue, at the pole-compass forking up above
the flying-bridge, at the wheel in front of the chart-house,
and all the other points of this long slender
hull that leaned softly as the blue swell washed
along her wall-like sides. "Why, though the sudden
transition from peril to safety should have made
the steamer a hardly realizable thing, yet to me
she appeared indeed to be the only real thing
among a whirl of phantoms that we had been
struggling through ever since that dismal Christmas
night. It was the brig, it was the island that
seemed fanciful, — kind of nightmares out of which

1 bad awakened into this beautiful morning and
upon this iron bull, with its metallic beast champing
under the struggles of the giant Steam, whose
labours had for a little while been suspended.

The gig was some time in bringing off the rest of
the men, and I explained to the captain that the
reason was there were two maimed seamen aboard
who would need to be handled cautiously; but
both boats were not much longer away than five-and-twenty
minutes, and then you saw them deep
as their gunwales almost, lifting towards us over
the azure folds, their oars sparkling as they rose
and fell. They arrived alongside, the two injured
men were carefully handed up and carried forward,
the others followed and helped the steamer's crew
to get the provisions from the brig aboard, and
when this was done the Strath move's boat was
hoisted over the rail and the other boat re-stowed
in her chocks. It was at this moment that Aunt
Damaris and Florence came out of the cabin and
stood some distance abaft the mainmast looking
at the brig. I joined them, whilst the captain
mounted the bridge. In a few moments the
peculiar vibration of revolving engines was felt in
the planking under the feet. The brig drew abeam
as the steamer came round to her course; and
high out of water, with her maintopsail aback, the
ensign flying jack down at her masthead, the trysail
boom swinging as she rolled, there she lay, an

abandoned vessel, so pathetic in her desertion and
solitude, with the endless leagues of blue stretching
away past her into the bright sky of the south,
that I was more moved than I have the courage to
confess. She had saved us from God alone knows
what dreadful fate, and I seemed to think of her asa
living thing capable of such grief and passion as
might visit a human heart as I looked at her
receding astern, left helpless in the midst of the
ocean, and thought " That is her reward ! " Laugh
at me, mates, if you will, but if a deserted, tossing
ship which a man has never set eyes on before,
will put sad fancies into his head, how much more
should he be affected by the sight of the vessel
that had rescued him, and one dearer to him than
his own life, from a situation of deadly peril, floating
away echoless, helpless into the mystery and
the grave of the measureless, pitiless dee)? I
knew that my old shipmates had much the same
sort of feeling about her that I had, for I saw them
all looking in silence at her, whilst the steamer,
feeling the propulsion of the churning screw, was
raising white water under either bow and sending
it spinning aft into a streaming riband of wake
that was as full of colour with its bells and bubbles
and whirling patches of snow and hollowing frosty
eddies as a diamond necklace is in candlelight, till
the sense of rescue surging uppermost in them
along with the feeling that they were homeward

bound, they gave out their hearts in three hurricane
cheers which went rattling along the water
in a wild farewell to the diminishing brig. The
exultant shout made me look at my darling, and
our eyes met. Speak we could not ; I could only
take her hand and look at her and she at me till
the gathering tears forced her to avert her face,
whilst Aunt Damaris stood in a sort of trance, her
hands convulsively locked, staring after the brig.
'ladies," said the captain, coming up to us, ''I
expect my wife will be up by this time. Let me
take you below that you and she may settle about
cabins for yourselves, where you may make yourselves
comfortable for breakfast, which no doubt
you're ready for, and which should be on the table
in half an hour."

Chapter XY.

WHAT WILL MR. HAWIvE SAY?

The passage home was too uneventful to write about
even if I had room for it, or you had patience to
listen to more talk about the sea. There was no
longer the interest of the sailing ship. Calms and
strong breezes we had in plenty, but they had
nothing to do with us. Day and night onwards
the metal fabric shoved, during her canvas in the
stagnant air or the head-wind, or expanding it to
the favouring breeze ; and rounding the Cape, we
climbed our way northwards over the equator into
the tropic of Cancer, with familiar stars rising
higher and higher over our bows every night, and
constellations in the south settling out of sight
behind the sea.

But the run was uneventful, at least from the
shore-going point of view ; the worst that happened
to us was a strong head-wind that delayed us over
a week ; and so I'll pass over it, over the hours
[Florence and I spent together, over our conversations

with Aunt Damaris, over the kind and
liberal treatment we received aboard the 
; over many a matter which to relate would
swell this yarn out into the longest story that was
ever written, in order to come bluntly to the date of
the fifteenth of March.

That was the date on which the steamer arrived
off Gravesend, where I went ashore. Florence and
her aunt had been landed off Pl^Tuouth for the
convenience of being able to take train at once to
Bristol. They wanted me to accompany them, but
I told them it would suit me better to proceed
direct to London in the steamer, there lay in a
fresh stock of clothes, and then go down to my
imcle's house. And yet, though it was to be but a
short parting — as Florence and I hoped and prayed,
and as Aunt Damaris promised — what a leave-taking
it was, when it came to their going over the
side into the cutter that was to carry them ashore !
You'd have thought we were never going to meet
again. Twice Aunt Damaris drew back from the
gangway' to kiss me — a}', boys, to hiss mc ! whilst

as to my heart's delight But avast. Jack !

you're out of all danger now, so tail on like a man
to the end of this story and coil down and clear out
and be hanged to you ! for your jaw bids fair to
carry you on till the crack o' doom shuts up all
hands.

Well, you see, boys, that, shipwrecked as I had

been, I had saved my purse. It was in my pocket
when I tumbled into the gig, before the Stratford
foundered ; and in it were a ten-pound note and
some sovereigns. This very easily carried me from
Gravesend to London, by Tilbury; and the first
thing I did when I got out at Fenchurch Street
Station, was to buy me a bag, a night shirt, a
brush and comb, and other needful articles of that
kind; and then, calling a cab, I went to the
Tavistock Hotel in Covent Garden, where I wrote
my name down in the address book as coolly, faith,
as if I were just from Manchester or Leeds, instead
of from St. Paul's Island in the Indian Ocean.

It was in the evening ; I dined, and then wrote
to my uncle, contenting myself with giving him the
merest outline of my adventures with Florence and
Aunt Damaris, and added that when I had rigged
myself afresh — all my clothes having gone down
with the Stratford — I'd take leave to spend a few
weeks with him at Clifton. This letter being
posted, I withdrew to the big smoking-room, and
sat till hard upon eleven o'clock, thinking and
thinking, and sipping whisky and water, and pulling
at a cigar, little heeding the crowds of provincials
who were congregated around the tables, rattling
away in many different kinds of British dialects,
though if I hadn't been so full of thought it would
have amused me to watch and listen to them. For
what came home to me now was what would Mr.

Hawke say ? Often enough, you may suppose,
during the passage to England, my daring and I
had talked about that, but somehow when at sea it
always seemed too far off to thoroughly catch hold
of, and you'd notice how little able we were to
realize it or give our thoughts to it, by the way we'd
break off and fall to love-making or talking of other
things, as though, indeed, what views Mr. Hawke
might entertain of my courtship and how he might
come to decide about it were a very light trouble,
easily hove on one side.

But now Ave were all ashore. By this time
Florence and her aunt were at Clifton Lodge ; maybe
while I sat smoking and thinking, old Hawke was
hearing the whole story, along-smith Aunt Damaris's
recommendations of me, and her opinions on the
subject of his friend Sir Reginald Morecombe's
son ; and what would he say ? Into what agonies
of fancy did I fall — tweaking at my bit of a
moustache, flipping off my cigar ash, till I'd occasionally
send the cigar itself flying across the
room, sometimes staring at the ceiling, sometimes
at my boots. I knew I had won Florence ; I knew
that if ever a girl gave her heart to a young man,
she had given hers to me, that no earthly power
was likely to wrest her love away from me, that
Aunt Damaris would peck and fight for me now,
with probably more heartiness than ever she had
appealed to Florence on behalf of Morecombe.

But I did not know what old Hawke would say, and
as I had not the least doubt, love me as Florence
did, and faithful as she would prove as a sweetheart,
that she would never consent to be my wife unless
our marriage were sanctioned by her father, why,
lads, I tumbled and twisted in that smiling-room
arm-chair in a hundred mental convulsions and
throes of imagination, till feeling utterly wearied,
I rose with a prodigious yawn and marched off to
led.

I spent the next morning in going to my bank to
see how much I was worth, likewise in ordering
clothes and linen, and so forth ; and after lunch I
went to the office of Duncan, Golightly and
Company, to inquire if anything had been heard
of the long-boat and quarter-boats belonging to the
Stmthmore. There is no occasion to relate my
conversation with Mr. Golightly, beyond saying
that the report of the foundering of the vessel had
been received three weeks prior to the date of my
arrival in London, and that news of the boats,
excepting the one in charge of the carpenter, had
been telegraphed, though, until I called, the gig
had remained unaccounted for. The long-boat,
Mr. Golightly informed me, had, while running
during the night, been nearly swamped by a sea by
which she lost her lights and compass. Unable to
make a true course, Thompson had missed the
island of St. Paul's wide, and was subsequently

picked up by a Dutch steamer, uiuety miles east-southeast
of that rock. The first lifeboat, during
that same night, had sighted a small vessel when
she was nearly into her, had hailed her, and her
people were taken aboard, but the captain declined
to seek for the other boats, and held on with his
voyage to the Cape of Good Hope. The second
hind third boats had mistaken Amsterdam Island
for St. Paul's, and the crews and passengers had
landed there, but they had not been on the island
an hour when they sighted a full-rigged ship standing
to the westwards, and at once jumped into the
boats and gave chase, eventually making themselves
seen by her, after rowing and sailing for six
hours. Of the fourth boat I may as well say here
that she was never heard of, and it was supposed
that she had foundered dining the night. She was
in charge of the carpenter, and her people consisted
of Thompson Tucker, seven seamen, and six
'tween-deck passengers.

I am telling you this in an off-hand way, for the
wreck of the StratJimore happened a good many
years ago, and the interest it excited in an age
Ashen she was reckoned one of the finest of the
vessels trading to Australia has long since been
clean forgotten ; but none the less do I remember
how much astonished and impressed I was to hear
of the long-boat missing St. Paul's and found
knocking about ninety miles to the south and east

of that bit of land, and of the people of two of the
quarter-boats having reached Amsterdam Island,
and escaped from it two days before we in the
Sarah Jane rounded that rock and hove-to and
burnt flares in the hope of some of the crew and
passengers of the Stratford being ashore there.
Certainly there is no limit to the surprises of the
deep ; and as a truly lively sample of them, I often
mention the good luck of the quarter-boat that met
the small vessel, and was rescued by her in that
dark night, when we in the gig were being swept
before the breeze, sitting and holding on for our
lives, scarcely able to see a fathom past the
gunwale. So that, let landsmen think as they
please, the fact is that the nearer one comes to
what may sound improbable or even impossible to
them, the closer one gets to the truths of the ocean
and to sailor men's experiences.

Well, my next move, after calling on the firm of
ship owners in Fenchurch Street and hearing about
the boats, was to visit the offices of the owners of
the Clamvilliam, My wish was to ascertain the
charge I had put those owners to by their ship
bringing me home from the Southern Ocean. But
they declined to make any charge ; they said their
captain had merely done his duty in rescuing me
and the others from our dangerous situation, and
there was nothing to pay. This led to the most
amicable contest I was ever engaged in, but finding

them firm, I went away, and on reaching my hotel,
sent them a cheque for twenty-five pounds, to be
divided among the crew of the Chuucilliain, and I
requested that the captain would do me the favour
to purchase some little trifle to remember me by
out of his share of the money. It was as much
as I could afford, and though perhaps it might
about pay for my maintenance and the use of the
cabin, &c., I could not speak of it in relation to
the debt I owed the ship ; for that, God knows,
was not dischargeable by money. Anyhow, it
Avould have gone against my grain to have used
the Clamcill'iam and lived comfortably aboard of
her, without paying something for the privilege,
and consequently I was very pleased when I
received a handsome letter of acknowledgment
from her owners, thanking me for the cheque and
accepting it for the crew.

It was on my return to Covent Garden that I
found this telegram from my uncle awaiting me :

Thank God you are safe. Come to us as soon
as you possibly can. All well here. Heaps of
news."

There was nothing to detain me in London but
the tailor, who kept me waiting three days, though
I am happy to think I made his life a burden to
him by many violent threats of leaving the
'garments," as he called them, upon his hands
if he did not punctually deliver them on the day

VOL. III. 2 c

and hour promised. They were three long, dull,
tedious days to me. I had no disposition to visit
my old haunts. All the time I was thinking of
Florence, wondering what Mr. Hawke would say,
what news of Mr. Morecombe I should hear, what
my uncle had to tell me and the like; and yet
impatient as I was to get to Bristol, I'd sometimes
think the delay was fortunate, as it would give
Mr. Hawke time not only to hear what Aunt
Damaris had to say, but to digest her views about
me and get to understand his daughter's heart.
Still I did not dare feel hopeful. Being fairly
ashore again, all the past rose up strong and
sharp. I recalled how I had laughed out at Mr.
Hawke when he rolled up to my little lodging and
requested me to leave Bristol ; how he had fumed
over the attention I paid his daughter at his
dinner-table, how he had described me to his sister
as a common 3'oung sailor chap, how he had
quarrelled with my uncle's family on my account :
and then I'd think of his veneration for the
aristocracy, and ask myself whether I had a right
to suppose that my chasing his daughter to sea
and being shipwrecked with her were circumstances
likely to alter his snobbish views, and cause him
to think me good enough to take the place of that
blood which he had sent his daughter on a
disastrous voyage to obtain.
At last the materials I needed for a wardrobe

reached me, and fully equipped With all the toggery
I required, I went down to Bristol, meaning to take
my relatives unannounced. My heart thumped
hard under my waistcoat as I drove up to Clifton.
It seemed but yesterday that I was at Bristol, and
yet when I came to look back, so much had
happened since that there seemed to be enough of
hopes and fears and hardships and love-making to
till up the canvas of half a dozen of years.
Dreams ! heart alive, a man doesn't need to go to
bed for them. What visions that ever came before
me in my sleep approached such experiences as
my sitting one day in a little bit of a lodging in
Bristol, madly in love with a girl and thinking of
her as something as remote from me as the angels
are who live in Paradise past the blue skies, and
the next day, so to speak, cast away with her upon
a desolate ocean rock — with her and the old lady
who was running away to Australia with her to
escape me ? And as the cab rolled upwards and I
peered out first to starboard and then to port
through the windows at many a sight that was
familiar to me, and thought of the anthem in the
cathedra-al, the locket my darling had given me —
still snug in my breast — and the letters, the
meetings, the voyage, and NOW, why, the strength
of my passion for her was so great, my love so
overmastering, that I felt it would break my heart
outright, that life would be so desolate a blank

to me that I should not know what to do, whereto
go, what to live for, if she were denied to me
after all that had passed between us — if she refused
me because her father rejected me, loving me as
I knew she did — ay, boys, as truly as I loved
her.

The cab stopped, I sprang out and rang the
bell, and whilst I waited for the door to be opened
I stole a glance round the grounds — at the seat up
in the corner where I had told Florence I loved
her, at the summer-house where I had sat grinding
my passion into the earth with my heel
through the mortification I had felt on finding
that Florence had not invited me to the dinner my
relatives had been asked to. The man-servant
appeared, and when he saw me he gave a great
start, and then broke into an immense grin. I
dare say he remembered the two half-crowns I
gave him one evening for bringing me certain
letters.

Is my uncle at home ? "

"Yes, sir; he'll be glad to see you, Mr. Seymour,
sir ; " and I had pulled off my hat to hang it up
when my uncle appeared at the end of the halL
It was just a shout and then a rush and a mad
grab at my hands.

My dear Jack ! my dear Jack ! my dear Jack ! "
was all he could say.

Here I am at last ! " I cried. " My dear uncle.

low are you ? How is my aunt — how are my dear
cousins ? "

A loud shriek on the staircase announced the
presence of Sophie. The dear creature came
whh-Ung down like a squall, and in a breath I
stood suffocating in the most extravagantly hearty
embrace I was ever saluted with. Her resounding
cry brought out my aunt and Amelia ; and now
behold me, the centre of an ardent and quite overcome
group, revolving like a top to their handshaking,
hardly knowing whether to cry or to
laugh, dragged here and there till an eye-witness
might have gone away and sworn he had beheld a
free-fight, and at last carried off by my uncle into
the di-awing-room, where I was plumped into an
arm-chair and instantly sm-rounded.

They were not newly-born infants when I quitted
Bristol, and consequently' seven months had not
worked the least discernible change in them.
'Sla.yhe there was a slight increase in the breadth
of my uncle's smile and in the heartiness of his
laugh, as if the purpose of his life now lay in the
steady development and improvement of these two
physical qualities, and it is just possible that the
train of m}' aunt's dress may have grown fi-actionable
longer since I was last in her company, butin
no other respect were they altered. I looked
around this healthy and happy assemblage of
faces, from my uncle with his high Woman nose

and cleliglitecl countenance to my aunt smiling and
handsome and dark-ej^ed, on to corpulent Amelia
with her chins, and to Sophie fat and loving — one
mass of sympathy from her hairpins to her heels
and felt that a man who had such a family of
relatives as these to come to after a shipwreck
might fairly consider that he was not wholly
abandoned by the gods. Our conversation at the
first start I could no more put down than I could
attempt to express in writing the quick jabbering
of a crowd. Whole broadsides of questions were
fired into me, ejaculation after ejaculation let fly,
until my uncle, seeing that we might sit together
thus for the rest of the year and yet come no
nearer plain sense and a clear narrative, whipped
me off to my bedroom and there left me, to join
the family at my leisure ; " and don't be in a
hurry, Jack," says he, " for I can assure you we
want time to cool."

However, I did not stay long upstairs, and when
I returned to the drawing-room a glance at my
cousins and aunt enabled me to guess that we
should now be enabled to make some headway
with our conversation. They all drew about me
afresh, and Sophie cried out, " Jack, you are looking
wonderfully well — quite handsome, I assure
you."

'brown as a nut. Jack," exclaimed Amelia.
Certainly the sea agrees with some people."

"But how can I be smiling and talking to you
and looking at you?" said Sophie. ''Oh, Jack,
can I ever forget that you followed Florence to
Australia without giving me the least idea of your
intention ? "

'now, girls," bawled my uncle, "let's have no
nonsense. Only talk what you mean, and then
we'll get along."

I suppose Florence and her aunt have arrived
at Clifton Lodge," said I.

Oh dear yes," answered Sophie. " AVe called
upon Florence yesterday. Papa and Mr. Hawke
are friends again now. Jack. But do you know that
Emily Hawke is dead — poor Emily whom we used
to meet in the bath chair ? "

"Is it possible? The news will have been a
heavy blow to Florence, I fear," said I. " When
did she die ? "

On Christmas night," responded my aunt.

"Heaven preserve us!" I exclaimed, "that
was the night on which eve were wrecked. Mr.
Hawke came very near to being rendered childless
altogether on Christmas night."

Poor fellow, it nearly broke his heart," said my
uncle. " You'll find a wonderful change in him.
No more pomps nor vanities. Jack. Sorrow has
caught hold of him as j^ou sailors catch hold of a
swab, and wrung him out. He invited me to the
funeral and then we struck up an acquaintance

again, and since then we've been good friends.
He was very fond of Emily — she was his pet, I
think : far ahead of Florence in his affection."

It was very sad," said my aunt.

'' How is Florence bearing the news ? for it will
be fresh to her," I asked Sophie.

'pretty well, I think," answered Sophie. " She
has gone through so much since she left home
that grief can't be expected to pierce so deep as
it would had she not been shipwrecked and gone
in fear of her life for I don't know how many
weeks."

"A fine bit of reasoning that, Sophie," said my
uncle. " But it'll do, my dear. The truth is,
Jack, Florence is too full of what the old poets
would call your ravishing idea, to suffer acutely
from any blow that isn't aimed at your lug."

That's about it," observed Amelia.

And can you give me any news of Mr.
Morecombe ? " I inquired, looking from one to
another.

He's not been seen in these parts since the
Stmthmore sailed," answered my uncle.

There is no doubt that he and Mr. Hawke have
quarrelled," exclaimed Sophie.

You know nothing for certain, then ? " said I.

"You see, my boy," observed my uncle, "the
subject's a delicate one. Hawke knew that I was
aware Morecombe had left the Stratford sea-sick.

hind that you had pursued the voyage ^Yith Florence.
AVe did not speak until after Emily's death. The
poor old chap's bereavement made me anxious to
say nothing to pain him or give words to any
unpleasant memory. But you'll get all the news
about Morecombe when you meet Florence."

*eat all events, Jack, you may take it from
me," said Sophie, "that you have nothing more
to fear from that odious young man."

It'll be three weeks ago, dating from yesterday,
Jack," said my uncle, '' since Mr. Ha^Yke called
upon me in a hurry, with a face as white as your
shirt. *' Mr. Seymour,' he cried, ' I have just
received some dreadful news from the owners of
the Strathmoir. She has been in collision and
foundered in the Indian Ocean. Only one boat
picked up by a small vessel has been as yet
accounted for. My daughter and sister were in
the gig in charge of your nephew. Oh, m}^ God ! '
he cried, hiding his face and sobbing terribly, * if
my daughter should have perished! if my poor
girl should be drowned ! ' The news was a terrible
shock to me. Jack," continued my uncle, all of us
listening to him with grave faces and in dead
silence ; "I thought of you, my lad, and how your
young life might have been cut off by a bit of wild
romance in the manufacture of which I was pretty-nearly
as guilty as you. However, I bottled up my
feelings and put a good face on the matter, and

told him that you sere a sailor, that if the ladies
were with 3'on they were in first-rate hands, and
urged him to wait a hit before giving way to
his grief, since any hour might hiring the news of
the other boats' safety. Well, Jack, a few days
ago there came a note from him : ' My dear
Mr. Seymour, I have just received a telegram
from Plymouth announcing that my daughter
and sister have been landed there by the steamship
ClanwilUam, and that your nephew has proceeded
in the vessel to London.' The letter was
to that effect, and it wound up with a fervent
thanksgiving to God. Jack, it did me good to
get that letter. The fear of your loss had weighed
very heavily upon us all, my lad."

He seized and held my hands, whilst poor
Sophie wept and my aunt said, ''"We were miserable
from the moment Mr. Hawke called down to
the hour on which we received his letter telling
us you and Florence were safe."

I was not a little moved to look around upon
their kind faces, and judge by what I saw there
that had I been their son or brother their affection
for me could hardly be much deeper than it was.
I fell to talking to them about the voyage and, as
you may guess, had so much to say that it was
within half an hour of dinner-time before I brought
my yarn to a close. I don't know that I skipped
a single point of consequence. I told them of the

name I lead shipped under, low impressed Aunt
Damaris had been hit how I had shared one
of the cabins with Moreeombe, his manner of
speaking about old Hawke, his fearful sea-sickness
and departure from the vessel off the Isle of Wight !
and in all my life I never heard people laugh as
my relatives did — one and all of them — my aunt
crimson and my uncle lying back till I thought he
would explode, when I described Moreeombe' s
drunken behaviour as he went over the side and
Aunt Damaris's appearance as she watched him.
Then I gave them an account of the voyage, the
passengers, Aunt Damaris's liking for me as
Mr. Egerton, and so on, till I came to the
collision, and om* night in the gig, and om* stay
on St. Paul's, and our getting away in the brig.
Why, lads, until I came to tell the story, I protest
I hardly knew what a real romance it was. Yet
you'd have known there was the proper sort of
stuff in it to seize and hold the attention, rudely
and briefly related as it was by me, had you
watched my listeners following every word that fell
from my lips with a sort of fixed breathless stare
at me, as though they feared if they did so much
as wink their eyes they'd miss something.

'wonderful*' shouted uncle when I had
made an end. "Jack, it's the biggest thing in
shipwrecks I ever heard in my life."

"What a romance!" cried mv aunt. "Think

of two lovers cast away upon such a rock as
Mr. Jack describes."

"With an old aunt to look after them," said
Amelia.

"Oh, Jack," exclaimed Sophie, " when Florence
is your wife what a deal you Avill have to talk
about ! "

"Meanwhile," said my uncle, "dinner will be
ready soon, so let's get ready for it."

Well, right through the dinner the talk was all
about the shipwreck and the island; and afterwards,
when my uncle wanted his cigar and exhorted
his wife and daughters to withdraw and leave us
alone, they refused to go. No, they liked the smell
of smoke ; it was ridiculous to ask them to withdraws,
there must really be a limit to men's tyranny. And
they clung to their seats whilst I went on yarning
about Florence and the StmtJimore and Aunt
Damaris.

And now, Jack," said my uncle, smoking with
his feet hoisted up, " what do you think old Hawke
means to do ?"

I only wish I knew," said I.

Why, papa, what can he do ? particularly after
Florence and Jack have been cast away together,"
exclaimed Sophie. " Of course he'll sanction their
marriage."

I don't really see how he can help it," observed
mv aunt.

"Anyway," remarked my uncle, 'you saved her
and her aunt's life, and that ought to make a
great hole in the old chap's gratitude."

"I can't loreiend I saved their lives," said I.
We took our chance together and came out of the
mess safel}-.""

'rand what d'ye call steering the gig through a
gale of wind and navigating the brig for a week ?"
cried my uncle. " Would they have saved their lives
without you?"

Not so much as you think is due to me, uncle,"
said I very truthfully. " But no matter about that.
Thank God my darling i.s safe — at home at last
on solid English earth. It's enough for me to
know."

I don't fancy," said Amelia, "in spite of your
experiences, Jack, with Florence and her aunt,
that Mr. Hawke would have been disposed to
favour you. People's natures, you know, are not
to be changed in a few months by things which
don't affect them ver' violently', and Mr. Hawke *s
prejudices against you and his views on the subject
of blood are much too stubborn to be shaken by
a shipwreck out of which his daughter has come
safely."

I sat looking on her with a long face.

"But," continued she, "Emily's death has undoubtedly
changed his character. Everybody says
it has made him less worldly. He is very regular

at church and looks dreadfully sad. When I think
of this change, and of the still further softening
effect Florence's safety will have had upon him,
I am of opinion that you will not find him objecting
to your marring her."

'•' I'm glad you wound up in that way, Amelia,"
said I, " for hang me if ever a speech opened more
dismally."

"Amelia's too oracular," observed Sophie.
However, I agree in what she says."

There is another consideration," exclaimed
my aunt. 'miss Hawke is now Mr. Jack's
friend."

'ray, tooth and nail," said I. "If it depends
upon her you may look upon me as a married
man."

"Well, Jack," cried my uncle, "boil me if you
don't deserve the girl. Such perseverance is
worthy of the sort of courtship that was customary
when I was a lad — when love was love, not a
twopenny spell of ogling followed by a skedaddle.
Why, dash my wig," he exclaimed, eyeing me
admiringly, "but she'll make ye a rich man
though. Now poor Emily's gone, there's nothing
'twixt Florence and her papa's will, unless the old
fellow goes off his head and signs away everything
he has to a hospital."

I waved my hand with a young lover's profound
indifference to money. " If I marry her, it'll befor

herself," said I. "Let the condition be that
I take her in the clothes she stands in and with
nothing else, and I'd thank God for bestowing
upon me the noblest gift that ever enriched mortal
heart."

'' Those are the sentiments for me ! " cried my
uncle. *' But at the same time, Jack, don't go and
make an ass of yourself by repeating them to old
Hawke. Yon know he might take you at your
word."

''Oh, papa, how horribly prosaic you are ! "
exclaimed Sophie. 'jack's ideas are beautiful,
and it's a shame to spoil them. But do let us go
into the drawing-room now ; this tobacco smoke is
quite suffocating."

Well, lads, whatever my fortune was to be I was
not long to be kept waiting in suspense. Unknown
to me, Sophie that evening sent a line to Florence
to tell her that I had arrived ; and next day,
shortly after luncheon, whilst I was walking with
my dear cousin in the grounds, talking to her
about my darling, and how over and over again
she had owned her love for me, a man in livery
arrived from Clifton Lodge with a letter addressed
to me. My heart set off like the driving-wheel of
a locomotive. I looked at the handwriting : it was
a woman's, but it was not Florence's. The enclosure
ran thus :

Dear Mr. Jack,

'will you come and dine quietly with
us this evening at half-past six ? But as my
brother and I have something to say to you, if you
can manage to come, say at four o'clock, we shall
be very pleased indeed to see you. Florence does
not know I am writing, or you may be sm*e she
would send her lore. The servant will bring back
your answer.

"' Yours very sincerely,

''Damaris Hawke.

•• Pes. — I am all anxiety to see you again."

Without ado I trotted into the house, wi-note an
answer accepting the invitation, and promising todo
myself the pleasure of calling at the horn-named,
and despatched it by the servant, scarcely
heeding that Aunt Damaris was pretty sure to gi'in
at my handwriting, whose tremulousness would
have disgraced a man of ninety. The instant the
gentleman in Hveiy was out of sight I bounded
over to Sophie and thrust Aunt Damaris's letter
into her hand. 'what do you think of tJtat ! "
I shouted.

She immediately* devoured it with a face that
was a study for its agitation.

Oh, Jack ! " she cried. " it's all come about !
*rit's all come about! They wouldn't invite you

in this way if they didn't mean to give Florence to
you. Oh, you lucky boy! Jack, I must kiss
you ! " And kiss me she did, pouring a hundred
congratulations into me as she stepped back to
survey me, and ended in catching hold of my arm
and running me into the house to seek Amelia and
her mother, and show them the letter.

I took fifty minutes to dress myseK, and then
had to wait three quarters of an hour. Mighty
pleased was I by the cut the tailor had given my
dress-clothes, and not a little satisfied with the
ocean-brown that tinted my face and made me look
as I surely never had appeared dm-iag the three
years I had passed in knocking about London.
Before I quitted the house, my relations gathered
about me to fortify me with a thousand good
wishes. "Don't be too sentimental. Jack," my
uncle said. " Love is a fine thing, much too good
to starve; so mind your eye, my lad. Don't let
your emotions give Hawke a chance. Mind now !
for I know what poetical young men are."

I shook hands all round as if I were going on
another voyage, or to my execution, and jumping
into the phaeton was rattled off to Clifton Lodge.
It was only a few minutes' drive, but there was a
vast deal of thought packed into it. Talk of
compressing the essence of a bullock into a small
tin can ! As many fancies as would have served
me for a twelvemonth were jammed into that short

VOL. III. 2d

journey ; and when the phaeton halted abreast of
CHfton Lodge m}^ brow was cold with dew, distilled,
no doubt, by an imagination that had been doing
in five minutes the work of pretty nearly as many
years. I rang the bell, and hearing it tinkling was
afraid I had pulled it unnecessarily hard. What
a fine house it was ! Not to my taste, to be sure ;
but nevertheless a kind of palace in its numerous
shining windows, all superbly draped, its conservatories,
the statues atop of it, the pillars, the
terrace on the left, and so on. During the minute
I was kept waiting, up swarmed the memory of my
first visit, the walk to the cathedral, the drive, the
lunch — why, when I thought of what had happened
since, that visit might have been made a hundred
years ago.

The door was flung open and I entered. The
man-servant, taking my name, ushered me into
the drawing-room, and I sat down feeling for the
moment, amidst that wilderness of gleaming
marbles and mirrors, tables, curtains, and the
deuce knows what besides, almost as lonely as
I did that night on St. Paul's when I looked up at
the black rim of the crater and saw the stars
hanging over it. How often had I thought of
tills room during that time ; contrasted the splendours
of it with the miserable hut, the old creaking
brig's deck-house ! And now here I was, sitting in
it, waiting — for what ?

The door opened aud Mr. Hawke entered, and
close in his wake was Aunt Damaris. I looked,
scarcely knowing if another was behind, but the
door closed upon those two. I rose and gave them
a bow. Hawke put out his hand, but before I
could take it, Aunt Damaris brushed past him
nth both hands extended.

*' Mr. Jack, I am glad to see you again. I am
glad indeed to see you again," she cried. '' Oh,
what memories your face recalls ! How are you ?
You look wonderfully well."

I thought she meant to embrace me — it wouldn't
have been the first time, as you know — but she
contented herself with holding my hands and continuing
to shake them for some time, meanwhile
peering steadfastly at my face with the old familiar
pecking gesture. The warmth of her reception put
me speedily at my ease, and when she released me
I gravely shook hands with Mr. Hawke, expressing
in a few words the deep sympathy I felt with him
in his affliction. Aunt Damaris was in crape, and
he was clad from head to foot in the blackest of
black cloth, and yet the suggestion of mourning lay
not nearly so conspicuously in his clothes as in his
face and bearing. He had the appearance of a man
utterly bowed down and crushed by sorrow. He
stood with a kind of stoop, his skin was the colour
of dry sand, and I could trace but little of the sharp
gleam that I once took notice of in his eyes. He

merely bowed to the few words I let fall about his
loss, and asking me to resume my chair, seated
himself at some little distance fi'om me with his
back to the Hight. Aunt Damaris, on the other
hand, drew a chair close to me. " Mr. Seymour,"
said she, "is it not strange to find ourselves safe
and snug at home after our adventures? My
brother wonders how we could have survived so
much downright misery. Oh, I must tell you that
I have not forgotten Mr. Shilling and the Strath-more'
s men. I sent the firm some money to distribute
among them. I hope it will be given to them."

"Oh, sure," said I.

"And here am I in England again," she rattled,
after having in vain endeavoured to get to my
home in Australia."

I presume you will be making another attempt
before long, Miss Hawke," said I, with a glance at
her brother, who was eyeing me without offering to
speak.

Oh, certainly. My heart as well as my home
is in Sydney. But you'll not catch me making the
voyage in a sailing vessel again, Mr. Jack. What
dreadful calms we encountered, do you remember ?
Alphonso, you cannot imagine what we suffered on
the equator."

"Damaris," said he, speaking very slowly, but
without any of his old haws and hums and word
brandishing, " perhaps you will give me an opportunity

to thank Mr. Seymour for his attention to
you and Florence during your hardships ! "

"I beg that you won't thank me, Mr. Hawke," I
exclaimed. " I have been sufficiently rewarded by
the confidence yom* sister reposed in me and by
haTing seen yom daughter safe out of that shipwreck."


Well," he continued, with a painful smile, '* I
must thank you if only as an excuse to conduct the
conversation to a subject of deep interest, I am
sure, to all three of us. The terrible blow that has
shattered my health and destroyed my spirits "

'•' My dear Alphonso ! " briskly expostulated Aunt
Damaris.

'• Finds me," he went on, with a slow look at her,
^*but Httle in the mood to reason upon the motives
which were influencing me when you and I first
made acquaintance, or to offer any remarks upon
your i:)m'suit of Florence. I need not deny, Mr.
Sermon*, that I was very greatly deceived in the
young gentleman whom I had wished to see united
to my child. I implicitly accept my sister's story
of a very great piece of impertinence and vulgarity
on his part "

*' Leaving the ship drunk, as you know, Mr.
Seymour," interrupted Aunt Damai'is, *' and swearing
dreadfully."

And his subsequent behaviour," continued Mr.
Hawke, *' has been "

He is actually going to be married ! " cried out
Aunt Damaris. " There's a pretty lover ! In a few
months he forgets all about the young lady he pretended
he was fond enough of to follow to Australia,
and offers his lovely person to another ! I wish to
goodness she had seen him leave the Stratford .
Oh, Alphonso, you are well rid of him. He's a
most ignoble creature."

Damaris," exclaimed Mr. Hawke, " I'd rather
not discuss him. He is really nothing to us now.
Florence's aversion was sound, and I admit the
wisdom of it. And, Mr. Seymour," said he, with a
faint touch of the old haw, haw sounding in his
voice for a moment, " it is only proper I should tell
you that just as I was mistaken in Mr. Morecombe,
so I erred in my judgment of you. I wanted my
way and you were thwarting me, and my temper
obstructed my view. You have since most honourably'
justified your claims upon my attention as a
young man very sincerely devoted to my child, and
it weighs with me — it weighs with me," he exclaimed
with a heavy sigh.

I stepped over to him and took his hand. " I
am heartily obliged to you for your handsome
words," I said. " I love your daughter truly, as
she knows. Without her I dare not think how-blank
the world would be to me. I could not help
loving her from the beginning, and I certainly will
not now excuse myself for being audacious enough

to dream of her then ; but for baying given j'ou
offence in the past, I ask your pardon, Mr. Hawke."

"There's no need," be replied. "We did not
know each other, and I will not say you bad no
right to resent roy treatment. Mr. Seymour, my
child is a precious trust — she is the only one
remaining to me — you will be good to her and
cherish her ?"

Do you give her to me ? " I asked, half breathlessly.


He bowed his head. I looked from him to Aunt
Damaris, and sprang to her side.

Oh, Miss Hawke ! " I cried seriously, " is
this due to your intercession? If so, may God
bless you ! may God bless you ! "

Mr. Jack," she cried, holding my hand and
fondling it, " you deserve her. I have been thrown
with you under strange circumstances, have seen
yom character, and I am grateful to think that
Florence has found such a man for a husband.
I told you I would conceal nothing from my
brother. I have related everything to him — how
you tricked me as Mr. Egerton, and what your
behaviour has been as Jack Seymour. In ^vhat
way but this should such an adventure as ours
end? My brother has no other disuse now than
to see Florence happy ; and with you she till
be happy — she could be happy with nobody else
and Alphonso knows it."

I was turning to address him — to pour out in
heaven alone knows what sort of English the
delight with which my heart was overcharged —
when Aunt Damaris most fortunately stopped me
by rising.

'alphonse," said she, 'florence is all impatience
to see her lover. Shall we go and send
her to him ? " He left his chair very quietly,
and coming over to me offered his hand. I held
it in silence, for there were tears in his eyes,
sand in the face of them I hardly knew what to
say. He then went out of the room, followed by
Aunt Damaris, who stood a moment in the door
,to look round and nod and smile at me and blow
me a kiss with her old lean fingers.

I remained near one of the tables waiting,
with my heart hammering in my breast till the
clamour of it in my ears half stunned me. I was
not long kept listening. The door was pushed open
and my darling entered ; a gleam of the afternoon
sunshine streamed through the curtains in one of
the western windows full on her ; radiant it made
her look despite the mourning in which she was
clad; her bright hair shone with a golden tint,
lovely was the deepening of the colour of her
eyes by the soft warm blush on her cheeks; she
lingered a moment or two with drooping head,
peeping at me through her lashes with a timid
smile. But what was the good of hanging in the

wind, mates ? She was mine — she knew it ; and
when I held open my arms to her she fled tome
and in a breath I had her heai-t against mine
and my lips upon hers.

'•' This is the end of oui shipwreck, Jack," said
she when I let her speak.

A}', my darling, my pet, my love ! '* I cried ;
'* the end of our shipwreck, and the very last
passage of Jack's Courtship."

THE END.

LOinX>H: rKIHTED BT WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,
STAMFORD street AND CHARING CROSS.
