^1

^ tr Ml.(!3.(fix»rl»ait Cimuuiiu; ^ ar!

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

62.3

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

KNIGHT-ERPvANT. By Edda Lyell, author of

'Donovan,' ' We Two," ' In the Golden Days,' &c. 3 vols.

FROM HEATHER HILLS. By INIrs J. Hartley Perks.

2 vols.

A DATELESS BARGAIN. By C. L. Piekis, author of I

'Lady Lovelace,' 'Judith Wynne,' &c, 3 vols, I

DRIVEN BEFORE 'IHE SI Form. By Gertrude j

Force, author of ' In the Old Palazzo," &c. 3 vols.

COUR ILEROY. By Anne Beale, author of ' Fay

Arlington,' ' The Pennant Family,' &c. 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

A ROMANCE OF THE DEEP

BY

W. CLARK RUSSELL

AUTHOR OF

'A SEA Queen," " THE WRECK OF THE GROSVENOR," "a SAILOR'S SWEETHEART.

ETC., ETC.

I had a dream which was not all a dr

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I

LONDON

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET

1S87

All Rights Reserved

TII.LOTSOX AND SON, MAWDSLEY STREET

ROI.TON.

^

^

AUTHOR'S NOTE.

C^ In a novel the Anterior wrote, and that was published in

1875, entitled "John Wordsworth : Chief Mate," he attempted
the portrayal of a condition of mind in a single respect

STJ resembling that which he deals with in this Story But the
means by which the faculty of memory's re-vitalised differ
as widely as the character of the tales. This will be evident to
those who have read "John Wordsworth," and who may be
able to recall how he was a sailor who was deprived of his
memory by suffering from long exposure in an open boat, and
how the power of recollection was restored to him when he
made his w ay from Australia to England, and in the little inland
village of Souihbourne beheld the house in which he had
courted the girl he had left behind him as his wife.

\i

OF

THE E I R S T \' O L U M E .

CHAPTER. PAGE.

I.— THE Merula I

II.— THE DOWNS 9

III.— THE LOVERS 24

IV.— THE Merula SAILS 39

V. THE DREAM 48

VI-the SKETCH 66

VII. — HAD NEWS 85

VIII.— VERIFICATION 96

IX. —A LETTER Ii

X.— LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE I27

XI. -A LONG CHAT I45

XII.— THE GOLDEN HOPE 164

CHAPTER.
XIII.— ON THE EVE

XIV. — AT SEA

XV.— TOUCH AND GO . . .

XVI.— STRUGGLING THROUGH IT
XVII. — GOOD HEADWAY
XVIII.— THE SCHOONER PASSES THE YANKEE

PAGE.







CHAPTER I.

THE Merula.

One bright, hot, summer afternoon there
might have been seen from the summit of
the North Foreland, where the herbage goes
down in undulations of vivid green to the
sharp, white, precipitous chalk, as fair and
fine a show as ever our English Channel —
fruitful as it is and has been for centuries in
grand marine spectacle — submitted to a lover
of sea-pieces.

The sight was a large, full-rigged ship, an
East Indiaman, of the burden of about
fourteen hundred tons, which in those days

VOL. I. B

constituted a very big vessel. She was nota
Company's craft, though she might well
have been built to sail in the noble and
stately procession of ships which were
regularly making the voyages to the East
and back, by way of the Cape of Good
Hope, under the flag of the Honourable
Body in Leadenhall Street. A light air was
blowing from the north-west, scarce wrinkling
the pale-blue or green, one hardly knew
which, that came gleaming out from a vague
horizon, dim with the heat, and melting into
a faintness of sky that arched up into pure
liquid sapphire to where it whitened into
dazzle around the sun. The ship was under
all sail, and as she came softly round the
Foreland, gliding upon the smooth water as
though it was a surface of satin, yet so
quietly as not to raise the tiniest sparkle
of foam at her stem, she braced her yards
up to the westering wind and boarded her
main tack, and then you saw shadows in the
hollow of her cloths, and the glossy edges of
her sails shining wan as white silk to the
sun, and the staysails mounting like pencilled
drawings in the shade of the square

canvas, and the jibs lifting out seawards from
the long spars beyond the bowsprit, as if
they were the wings of some mighty sea-bird
yearning for the ocean solitude that lay a
thousand miles down behind the silver of the
sea-line under the glorious luminary.

The beautiful ship floated, with the spacious
dignity conferred by her exceedingly square
yards, lifting her royal to the blue as if she
would enrich its loveliness with their cloudlike
summer daintiness of tint and texture,
without the least perceptible inclination of
her lofty, frigate-like spars to heel her hull ;
though in the shadow of her on this side,
the glimmer of her brassy sheathing might
be seen trembling through the translucency
under the wide channels and under the width
of glossy blackness that separated her broad,
wide bands, broken by ports, from the water's
edge.

What could equal such a spectacle, standing
with cameo-like clearness upon the sea and
sky ; every sail sleeping to the hum of the
drowsy wind ; the golden line of the Good-wins
over her port-bow; glittering, keen as
mirrors could fling, breaking from all parts of

her In many colours, as though her sides and
decks were garnished with jewels ; her tall,
single topsails giving her the bland, old-fashioned
grace one loves to see perpetuated
in the ship-of-war ; with here and there the
flutter of women's apparel, the twinkle of a
parasol, the glitter of a uniform upon her
high poop lying bare to the heat under the
crossjack-yard save where a narrow line of
shadow was flung upon the white planks by
the lee clew of the mainsail sheeted aft ; and
a crowd of lively hearties forward looking at
the coast over the massive bathed, at which
the ponderous anchor hung stoppered ready
for letting go !

The ship was the Merula, bound to
Bombay, loaded with a valuable cargo. She
had left Gravesend very early that morning,
and had brought a brave wind along with
her till she was abreast of Margate, when
it grew weak with a gliding of it westwards,
and to judge from the haze in the sky where
it touched the horizon, likely enough it would
fall dead west, if it did not die ere it reached
that quarter ; which naturally the hairy-faced
crowds forwards would not greatly relish the

prospect of, since it certainly meant detention
in the Downs, with all the bother of bringing
up and furling, and afterwards getting the
anchor again for a fresh start; though one or
two old salts, with junks standing high in their
cheeks, ventured an opinion that if the wind
died westering it was likely to easter incoming
to life again ; otherwise, why should
France out yonder be making a shadow as if
the haze wasn't a thing to be took notice of?
I keep you on the North Foreland watching
the ship as she glides by, as it is a point from
which you see her best ; for, note, as she
widens the water betwixt her and the coast
that trends south-west to Broadstairs, how
new beauties steal out in the trembling of her
stern windows to the lustre lifting off her
iridescent wake into them ; how the gilt-work
upon the quarter-gallery, visible to us,
seems to writhe like yellow fire there ; and
how, as the helmsman heads her fair for the
Downs, bringing the dim blue South Foreland
on the weather bow, the amazing
squareness of her black yards is revealed,
ascending one by one to where the royal-yards
stand masthead just under the silver-white

trucks, and stretching their now
darkened spaces of canvas in that wonderful
symmetry of configuration which the eye
loved to trace when it followed the towering
sails of such a vessel as this from the tacks
of the courses to the head earnings of the
topmost cloths.

Softly, always softly and quietly, she went
along with the heavier sails flattening into
the still failing breeze, and with once only a
drag upon the lee-braces to meet the westering
tendency of the off-shore draught. What
a picture is this I am striving to depict, with
only a drop of ink as a paint-box ! It is not
merely the line of chalk coast crowned with
verdure, nor the splendour of the sun's reflection
upon the water that whitens out into
blue from either side the effulgence, nor the
three or four sail hovering upon the distant
mistiness, nor the still, hot beauty of the whole
framework, whose central charm is the stately
and spacious-winged Indiaman, toned into
unspeakable tenderness of tints by the azure
softness of the English summer atmosphere ;
it is the thoughts which she inspires, which, by
entering into this shining picture gives the

vitality of the soul itself to it. For as you
watch the ship, becoming smaller and smaller
as she goes, the sense of the infinity of Nature
and the tremendous forces she can let slip, but
which now lie sleeping and hidden, contrasts
with the littleness of the fabric that, with a
Heaven's vibration in her rigging, and with
musical light gilding her with the placidity of
its afternoon lustre, is bravely descending into
the liquid amphitheatre of a thousand conflicts
of storm and billow, where there are infuriated
midnights, and tempests of lightning and
thunder, and the perils of ice and rock, and
the subtle antagonism of stagnant calms and
head winds of poisonous gentleness !

Who does not think of such things when
watching from the solid earth the slow
receding of a ship into the swallowing leagues
of distance, and when the crowds of living
beings within her are present to the mind,
with all that humanity, thus collected and
confined within a narrow space, signifies in
respect of the bitterness of leave-taking, the
hope that lures to adventure, the memories
which thicken in the brain till the coast of
the island home dissolves in the tears which

the sternest effort cannot always suppress?
God speed her! we cry. God protect! we
pray. For, familiar as we Englishmen are
with the deep, never can the sailing of a ship,
full of souls, for ports lying on the other side
of the world be so common a thing as not to
move the contemplative mind into solemn
fancies and into prayerful wishes.

THE DOWNS.

Shortly before six o'clock the Indiamen
was abreast of Deal. She had swum lazily
to this point, having been helped by the tide
rather than by the impulse of her sails which
now hung motionless from the yards ; for the
Channel water lay like a sheet of glass — there
was not a fold in its expanse that was shot
with sapphire, melting into faint blue, with
dim, steely tints, furrowed by the shadow of
the tide where it shoaled — to sway the littlest
punt upon it ; and the stately fabric upreared
her masthead steady as spires.

The air had died out, and the sun, past
the Foreland, poured its slanting light in
rays of ruddy gold, as though he was able
to concentrate his fire now that there was no.
movement in the atmosphere to disperse his
beams. Several vessels were at anchor in

the Downs, and there were people on Deal
beach to witness the frIgate-Hke smartness
with which the Merula brought up. So
perfect was the stillness of the air, and so
polished the water for the transmission of
sound, that the silvery, shrill piping of the
boatswain's summons, re-echoed by his mates'
whistling, might have penetrated to Upper
Deal ; and then, as if Influenced by a single
mechanical force, such as sets the complicated
gear of a watch travelling, the
superstructure of the Merula seemed to fall
to pieces, as yards descended, sails melted,
jibs and staysails sank, and the anchor fell
like an electric bolt from the bathed,
followed by the long, hoarse thunder of the
cable it carried, and the sharp, rain-like
hissing of the mass of foam expiring into
blue water aQ^aln where the anchor had
vanished.

It was not long, as you may suppose of
such a ship as this, manned as all such craft
should be, before she was at rest, lightly
straining at her cable, against whose surface-links
the tide broke In a thread that met the
huge stem beyond and rippled past In

wrinkles too delicate to distort the mirrored
picture of polished sides and white and black
band painted in the water ; nay, even deeper
yet sank the reflection, for the western light
was upon the masts, and fragments of their
fragile heights were measured in tremulous
gold beneath the shadow of the hull, along
with a thin streaming of white radiance
under each cabin window and glazed scuttle.
The Merula had not been at anchor
above half-an-hour when a man, just arrived
by coach from Dover, walked swiftly to the
esplanade and gazed for some moments
intently at the Indiaman, as if seeking to
make sure of her. He was a young clergyman,
this side of thirty, but of a stature and
breadth of shoulders which made him look
ten years older than he was. He held the
sharp of his hand to his brow and peered
under it at the ship, fixing an eager, intent
stare upon her, and his fine eyes flashed ■ ^
with the doubt and surprise that anyone yc^jL^
could have seen worked in him. A boatman, ^^ ' '^ -
with his arms buried in his pocket as high
as the elbows, stood near gazing seawards,
but keeping the visitor carefully in the

corner of his gaze, ready to bother him
with invitations the instant the chance
offered.

'' I say, my man," said the clergyman,
addressing him quickly, " can you tell me
if that ship there is the Merula ?"

*ray, that's the Merula," answered the
boatman, with half a glance at her. "Wan'
to go aboard, sir?"

Why is she anchored ?"

'why? Because there ain't no wind,"
responded the boatman, plainly surprised by
the nautical ignorance implied by the question.

'eyes, certainly. I might have known
that," answered the clergyman, looking up
and around, and then sending another yearning
glance at the ship. "Has she not come
very fast from Gravesend ? I understood
that she was not likely to pass here much
before midnight."

Well, she has come fast, I daresay. But
she ain't past yet, ye see, sir."

"How long will she lie at anchor ?''

Who," said the boatman, "that'll depend.
Whilst it's calm she'll stick where she is. If
it comes on westerly, which ain't unlikely,

she'll have to keep all on deferring of her
voyage. On t'other hand, if e'er a draught
blows favourable she'll git under way; for
them there Indiamen appears to me to be
always in a hurry till the voyage is regularly
commenced, after which they keeps yer
waiting'. Put yer aboard, sir ?"

Whilst the longshoreman expressed his
views, the clergyman stood lost in anxious
and troubled thought ; then muttering to
himself, "I must see her, I must see her!"
he told the boatman to row him to the vessel.

If the water, lying a darkish green under
the shadow of the land, needed a detail to
complete its beauties of mirrored ships and
blue distance and the yellowness — fast
growing red — of the south-west sky over
the Foreland, it might have been found at
that moment in a long, slender, white gig,
glittering with brass rowlocks and the
uniforms of six young midshipmen leaning
from the bright oars which rose and fell
with fine precision as the boat sheared
through the still surface, steered by a dark-skinned,
elderly, sailor-like man, who held
the white yoke-lines with gloved hands.

'' That'll be the Merula's gig with the
skipper in her," said the boatman. On which
the clergyman instantly turned with great
eagerness to look, but the swiftness of the
reefers' rowing had brought the captain's
back upon the parson.

The boatman plied his oars very leisurely ;
he had found a "job," and meant to make
use of it. But he had sense enough to see
that any observations he might feel disposed
to bestow upon his fare would be wasted ;
so the oars rose and fell in silence, were
it not for the splash of them, or the hum
of life ashore growing weaker, or the
voices from the ships at anchor, the clank
of a pawl coming plainly mixed up with
confused sounds from the Indiaman, now fast
showing larger and larger, with a canvased
gangway ladder over the side, heads swarming
along her length, and here and there
a face glimmering in the dark frame of a
porthole.

''A beautiful vessel, certainly. Don't
suppose as there's e'er a admiralty as
could offer anything more persuading' to a
man's eye," exclaimed the boatman, half-rounding

his body to take his measure forgoing
alongside. He dropped his oars and,
catching the ladder, brought the punt to the
grating at the bottom of the steps. 'ram I
to wait here, sir ?''

Yes," answered the clergyman ; and
with the look of a person who nerves himself
for a desperate ordeal he ascended the
ship's side.

A middle-aged gentleman stood near the
gangway, and when the clergyman stepped
on deck he grasped his hand. .

'' Fortescue I" he cried. " I saw you coming.
You are devoted, indeed I 'Tis a meeting
we could not have dreamt of How in the
name of all that's wonderful came you to
foresee that we should anchor in the
Downs ?"

I did not foresee it, doctor," replied
Fortescue. " I hoped it, but I came to Deal
only with the dream of seeing the last of the
ship. I never dared expect more than a
glimpse of her as she passed onwards, taking
my happiness with her. Will this visit tax
my darling, do you think ? I could not help
coming, doctor," he exclaimed, with a tremble

in his voice and a passionate, sweeping-glance
around him, " but if you think "

'* No, no," interrupted the doctor, " I
know what you would say. She may bethe
happier for this later farewell, perhaps.
Anyhow, here you are and you are bound
to see her now. She's in her cabin. Step
this way, Fortescue." He led him to under
the break of the poop. *the cuddy is
full of stewards and passengers flitting about.
Stop till I announce you — it must be done
with judgment, you know — and then I'll
take you to her."

The doctor, so-called — real name Dr.
Joseph Clayton — a short, energetic, kindly-faced,
dusky-eyed man, entered the cuddy
and left the Reverend Malcolm Fortescue
standing alone in the recess formed by the
overhanging of the poop-deck. There were
a hundred matters to interest him had he
had an eye for anything but what was
passing in his own heart. The ship, being
outward bound, was like a farmyard, with
the smell of fodder, the lowing of a cow
or two, the bleating of sheep, the muttering
of scores of hens in the coops, the

grubbing grunting of pigs forward ; and she
was like a street, were It not for a sort of
aimlessness in the moving of the people,
with the crowds of passengers and sailors,
the latter chiefly In the bows and about
the galley, the former everywhere, along
with the children and a few coloured nurses
with gold in their noses and eyes looming
witch-like out of cotton hoods.

Mr. Fortescue was kept waiting some
minutes, during which time nobody took
any notice of him, nor he of the strange
and Interesting scene before him. Once
or twice he glanced through the window
next him, and once or twice he stirred as
though to a shudder, and this he would
follow by a glance at the open gangway.
Presently Dr. Clayton came out through
the door.

I had to keep you waiting," he said.
'' She was very much surprised. 'Tis almost
a pity, perhaps, after all; 'good-bye,' once
said, should be meant, for when bonds are to
be severed, my argument Is, for the love of
God, be quick with the knife ! But come —
she Is waiting."

VOL. I. C

"If she cannot bear it " faltered the

clergyman.

'' No, no, she'll bear it. Besides, she
knows you're here, and is waiting ;" and so
speaking, the doctor entered the cuddy and
led Mr. Fortescue to a cabin on the port
side, midway the length of the interior. He
knocked softly, opened the door, and they
entered. A girl stood with one hand upon
her heart and the other clasping the back of
an armchair, from which she had hastily
risen, as might be guessed by the book that
had fallen from her lap and lay open on the
deck near her feet. Emotion had driven
every drop of blood from her cheeks, and the
pink in the atmosphere, flowing through the
open port, only served to accentuate her
desperate whiteness. For some moments
there was silence ; then, with a sob, she
came to Fortescue's arms and their lips met,
whilst the doctor picked up the book with a
shaking hand and put his head into the deep
port-hole to whisk a crystal off the side of
his nose.

'agatha, my beloved, have I done wrong?"
whispered Fortescue.

'' I did not expect to see you again —
"it is very sudden," she answered, lifting
her head as if she would try to look at
him, and putting her forehead against his
breast again.

'' I came to Deal wishing to see the vessel
pass — wanting to see the last of her," he said.
''I was told she would sail through the Downs
it was the barest chance, even this, I knew,
and they told me she might anchor here.
But I never dared hope that till I saw her
from Deal beach, and how could I help
coming? How could I help coming? Agatha!
It shortens the long year by a few days. It
is five days since we parted, and now that weare
together again the twelvemonth will be
less by that time."

'ray, that's quite true, and a sensible view,
after all," said Dr. Clayton, wheeling round.
Though, Agatha, as I told Fortescue, when
the knife has to be used, the fewer the
flourishes the better. It was your whiteness
that caused me to say it, dear."

Fortescue held the girl and they whispered
together, he with his lips upon her ear, and
she with her face hidden, till at another

remark let fall by Dr. Clayton, she drew
back with a long sigh and wet eyes, and
seated herself with the languor of an invalid.
One saw her to but little advantage at a time
like this, when white with agitation and
grieving, for reasons as bitter as any that
ever dismissed an adored sweetheart from
her lover to seek health upon the mighty
ocean. Yet her beauty shone through her
sorrow, and the swiftest glance would have
enabled anyone to recall with admiration the
soft, purely grey eyes, the abundant, auburn
hair full of a soft, gold light, and the delicacy,
sweetness and refinement of her pretty,
womanly features.

The young clergyman knelt by her side
and took her hand, and Dr. Clayton backed
to the door and there stood watching them,
as though puzzled, for here plainly was a
love that had the artlessness of babyhood in
its indifference to observation and to the
sense of embarrassment it might put into
others, and the doctor, not clearly perceiving
whether he should leave his step-daughter
and the clergyman alone, also very strongly
felt that he did not want to serve by only

Standing and waiting whilst they repeated
their bitter farewell. But they had been
alone often enough before ; when he was in
India, and when they were strolling hand in
hand along the beach or working together at
some little decoration for the old church ; and
why not, therefore, now — now, indeed, of all
times, when, haply by this hour tomorrow,
the ship might be far away down Channel on
her voyage of many thousand miles? Besides,
there was something too touching and solemn
for any third person to witness and hear in
the grieving, troubled, impassioned gaze
Fortescue fixed upon the girl, her glances at
him, his lifting of her delicate, white hand
to his lips, the low murmurs which passed
between them, the frequent, tremulous sighs
which would interrupt her, and the caresses
which followed.

When do you return ?" asked the doctor,
with his hand on the door-handle.

Soon, but I need not hurry. I must sleep
at Deal to-night. It will not be dark before
eight. I will leave then," answered Fortescue,
pleading, as though he feared Dr. Clayton
meant to tell him that Agatha was delicate

and that leave-takings were cruel, and that
he must mind what he was about. Possibly
this was in the doctor's mind, but anyhow he
did not say so. He exclaimed, '' Well, don't
go without seeing me," and left the cabin.

We will imitate him. What little was told
at this final meeting disclosed so much that
was sanctified by the pathos of embraces, by
vows again and again repeated, by prayer
offered up to God by them both, kneeling
hand in hand, and weeping as they prayed,
that the mere thought of it recreates their
actual presence, and I softly shut the door
upon them as one who has no business in
the cabin. He had said he would leave
before the dark came along, and as there is
an hour of sunshine and of scarlet sunset
remaining, let me occupy the interval by
asking you to step with me on the poop of
the Merula, where, as the blue deepens in
the east till a star shines in it, and whilst
the exquisite repose of this summer Channel
evening gathers an element of luminous
tenderness from the vessels at anchor to
south and east of us and from the yellow
shining of the French coast that swims in

the purple atmosphere over the starboard
quarter, I may tell you as briefly as I can
who Mr. Fortescue is and who Agatha, and
how it happened that she was starting on a
voyage that, according to the marine reckoning
of those quiet, ambling days of trade, must
certainly keep them apart for twelve months
at least.

THE LOVERS.

The Reverend Malcolm Fortescue was curate
of St. James's, a small, very old church in a
village on the south coast, which I will call
Wyloe. He was a tall, grave-faced, handsome
young man, thirty years old, and though the
reference may seem prosaic and out of place
here, it is necessary that I should say he had
a fortune of between seven thousand and
eight thousand pounds, the interest of which
enabled him to serve, for a stipend scarce more
than nominal, as curate to a friend of his
father, the Reverend Alfred Clayton, Vicar of
Wyloe.

Mr. Fortescue was a very active, healthy
man, and consequently a useful parish-worker.
He was an excellent reader and
preacher. Besides which, everybody could
see he laboured for the love of God only.

He was extremely good-looking, which
gave substance to ethereal spirituality by a
ver)' captivating sort of human sentiment.
His eyes were large, black and lustrous, very
soft in their glance, but there were moments
when arguing, or when his mind was
quickened by something that lifted it out of
the trodden, dusty parish round and put it
upon the green freshness on either hand — in
which you'd notice a sharp sparkling that
pierced the pensiveness of his gaze like a
beam of light shooting out of the soft indigo
that overlaps the ocean on a midsummer
night. It was as though his soul, lying
bright but concealed in him, rose to take a
peep at you, and no one, attentive to such
indications, could have doubted that underlying
his religious and professional gentleness,
was some strength of character. So much
for the most expressive of his features. For
the rest, his face was marked with a complexion
of melancholy. His piety, perhaps,
vas not of a very cheerful sort. You know
there are people who will go on brooding and
asking themselves questions, and "analysing
of themselves," as an old sailor once said tome,

till dissection ends in nothing but bones.
The spirit takes wing, and the understanding
if any be left — reckons everything lost.
It need not be said that Mr. Fortescue did
not go to any such length as this, but he
certainly gave you the notion that he thought
too much in one direction, and that there was
even more than a touch of mysticism in his
nature, and that he was thus generating
qualities in himself which might come by-and-bye
to making people wonder at him and to
hint that he would be the better for a change
of scene.

Wyloe is within a mile of the sea, and
when you approach the edge of the low cliff
you look down on black rocks and sand
and shingle and a line of surf winding out of
sight on either hand about a mile each way.
It was Mr. Fortescue's great happiness,
whenever he had leisure, to wander along the
sands under the cliff His love for the sea
was a sort of passion, but then it was the
passion of a landsman. He had not the least
desire to sail upon It. His humour took the
turn that gives more room for poetic musing
than vocation usage will. He kept the

substantial ground under him and put his
heart into the miles of liquid green, blue or
slate — the waters of the English Channel
have many colours — that ran from the 
foaming of the ripples on the
sand into the azure of the sloping sky, and
so deeply did he fall in love with the solitude
of the shore, so intellectual was his perception
of the power and the glory of the
ocean, that its spirit came into his soul, as it
w411 into any man's who has an ear for its
voice and an eye for its hundred expressions,
his religious emotions received an ocean-tincture,
because, perhaps, his mysticism
found something perfectly sympathetic in
the mystery which the surface he gazed at
offered as a symbol and a reality.

When Mr. Fortescue had been with Mr.
Clayton for about seven months, a charmiuia:
and beautiful girl arrived at the vicarage.
Her name was Agatha Fox and, as you may
suppose by her name, she was of Quaker
'extraction," as it is called. But there was
no mannerism of dress or affectation of speech
to denote her paternity. She was connected
with Mr. Clayton in a very roundabout way :

that is to say, Mr. Clayton's brother, Joseph
Clayton, M.D., had married Miss Fox's
mother. I cannot tell you how long after
Mr. Fox's death, but not very long, I
believe. Dr. Clayton was a medical man
who lived in Bombay. He had a large
practice there and had filled the post of
deputy-coroner. Agatha had been educated
in England and placed in charge of an aunt,
Sophia Fox, who lived at Falmouth. When
her father died, she joined her mother in
Bombay with the idea perhaps of returning
to England with her. But the widow fell in
love with Dr. Clayton, and after a bit
married him, by which time Agatha found
out that the climate of India did not suit her
health. There was no other reason for her
desire to leave Bombay. Doctor Clayton
made a most affectionate step-father, and the
three of them lived together very happily.

Indeed, she was reluctant to quit her
mother, who was loth to accompany her
because she could not bear the thought of a
separation from her husband for even a year.
And what with Agatha clinging to her
mamma and her mamma clinging to her

doctor — for widows do sometimes make fine
sweethearts and devoted brides — and what
with Dr. Clayton being a very busy man out-of-doors
and a not ver\^ resolute one in-doors,
in consequence of his being a tender-hearted
person, the girl stood a chance of losing
her constitution altogether.

But the sudden death of Mrs. Clayton
settled the question of Agatha's staying or
going. The loss of his wife turned the
doctor's heart warmly and wholly to his stepdaughter
: she grew precious to him as the
child of his adoption. Her health thereupon
caused him real anxiety, and he saw plainly,
what he had before dimly noticed, that she
must change the roasting atmosphere of the
tropics for the bracing air of the old country.
So it was arranged that Agatha should return
to her aunt at Falmouth, and that he would
visit England or she make a trip to Bombay
as often as God permitted, until he had
earned money enough to enable him to settle
in England for good and all.

Her departure from Bombay was notified
to the Vicar of Wyloe by his brother, who
begged that he would have her to stay at the

Vicarage as frequently as he conveniently
could. The doctor said it would satisfy him
to feel that she was often under the Rev.
Alfred's eye, " for," added he, ''I am a
stranger to my poor dear wife's Falmouth
relatives, and though I have a sincere respect
for the Quakers and know them, when not
engaged in making money to be the most
innocent, artless and genial of people, I
should be more contented by hearing about
her from you directly, to whose affectionate
care, indeed, I should have wholly entrusted
her had she not wished to live with Sophia
Fox."

So after a little, Mr. Clayton wrote to
Agatha at Falmouth, and asked her to spend
a few weeks at the Vicarage, and one day
she arrived.

If any demureness had come to this
charming lady from her grandsires it would
have been neutralised by her Bombay
experiences ; for in those days a good-looking,
white girl in India was rated by any number
of majors, captains and subalterns as high
above rubies, and the male faces which had
clustered around Agatha Fox had been

ardent enough to thaw off a much thicker
coating of primness than that which had
delicately iced her character when she
returned to her widowed mother in Bombay.
Mr Fortescue fell in love with her ; but
not at first sio^ht. He was one of that kind
of curates whom you occasionally meet, and
who you feel disposed to wager will never
marry, but go on getting more self-analytical
till they end in infidelity or the Church of
Rome. Fortescue was to be made a man of
by Agatha Fox, but not in a minute. They
had to be thrown together a honos while and
a good deal before they saw the new meaning
ripening in their eyes when their gaze met.
They were then in love, and Mrs. Clayton,
seeing how things promised, suggested that
her husband should write to Aunt Sophia.
But Mr. Clayton said they had better wait a
little. In his judgment, Agatha could not do
better than marry Fortescue, who was a well-connected
gentleman, a person of sound and
noble principles and professionally independent.
But, putting these considerations
aside, it was impossible for him to control his
brother's step-daughter. He had certainly

nothing to advise her against in Fortescue,
Then again, she was a clever girl, and could
be trusted to steer a true and wise course.
"Besides," said he, "what you call love
between them may really signify only a
warm common liking, such as you find
existing in many parishes between good-looking
curates and young ladies, but which
practically ends when the curates leave."

On this Mrs. Clayton ceased to trouble,
and human nature took its own road. Mr.
Fortescue saw a very great deal of Miss Fox,
met her frequently when alone, as could
hardly be helped since Wyloe was such a
little place and Miss Fox could not always
depend on Mrs. or Miss Clayton for getting
a walk, his sermons greatly struck and
interested her, and she much admired his
clear, solemn reading. At the end of six or
eight weeks she returned to Falmouth, but
made haste to come back to Wyloe. The
reason understood was, that the climate of the
West of England was too relaxing and she
needed the fresher breezes of the Wyloe
coast. Indeed, her letter was like inviting
herself — cordial, merry and affectionate — and

Mrs. Clayton smiled when she read It. The
Vicar was delighted to have her with them,
and when she arrived told her she must not
be in a hurry to leave, as she made a sunshine
in his home and he could see a deal of her,
which was what his brother desired.

Mr. Fortescue had talked of taklnof a
holiday, but no more was heard of his
proposed visit to the Isles of Greece when
he was told Miss Fox was coming.

This time she stayed three months at the
Vicarage, at the end of which period, or
rather, I should say, a few days before the
end of it, ]mr. Fortescue had proposed to her
and she had accepted him. It was inevitable.
They were In love before she returned to
Falmouth ; they were In love when she was
at Falmouth ; and they could only q-q on
deepening their love till It terminated In
betrothal when she came to Wyloe from
Falmouth. Their association this time was
intimate and incessant. Mr. Clayton was too
asthmatic and too well satisfied with Agatha's
choice to Interfere, and Mrs. Clayton felt that
the business was in no sense hers to make a
burden of. Then again, the Vicar's daughter

VOL. L D

Josephine, aged thirty, most 
forward the courtship by a dozen little
manoeuvres which women know how to
practice.

Indeed, Mr. Fortescue was passionately in
love with the girl. Passionate is a word
very freely used in these days, but all the
significance it formerly carried was perfectly
applicable to this curate's adoration of
Agatha Fox.

He had no breath, no being, but in hers ;
She was his voice ; he did not speak to her
But trembled on her words ; she was his sight,
For his eye followed hers and saw with hers,
Which coloured all his objects. He had ceased
To live within himself; she was his lite.
The ocean to the river of his thoughts,
Which terminated all ; upon a tone,
A touch of hers, his blood would ebb and flow."

Her opinions exactly coincided with his.
Every construction he placed upon what was
written, every interpretation he gave to the
meanings of the little, material, coast-bound
world in which they had met, all his
thoughts, views, delights, she understood, she
valued, and would heighten and often clarify
(when darkened by the mysticism of his

moods) by the illumination of her exquisite
sympathy and perceptiveness. Particularly
did the sea draw them both, and many a
meeting was held in the shadow and silence
of the cliffs, from whose base they watched
the blank green of the waters heaving to the
splendour of the sun, till their glances met in
the star-coloured shape of a gull poised in the
blue, as if to invite their thoughts to partake
•of the heavenly purity of the hue that shone
beyond its outstretched, trembles wings.

When ]Mr. Fortescue called upon Mr.
Clayton and told him that he had been
accepted by Miss Fox, the old gentleman
could not look surprised, but he stammered a
little as if he wanted himself, as well as his
curate, to believe that the thing had come
upon them all rather suddenly. And then
plucking up, he blurted out that personally
lie was delighted, but that nothing could be
done until Dr. Clayton had answered the
letter he would forthwith write to him. As
to Aunt Sophia, he presumed that Miss Fox
would write to her herself.

Fortescue's face fell when Mr. Clayton
talked of his brother in Bombay. India

seemed further off than Paradise, and many
months must elapse before he and his love
could know what Dr. Clayton would say.
But there was no help for it. Agatha
herself, in accepting him, had fully implied
that her father's sanction (she called the
doctor her father) would be necessary to
render her happiness perfect! So it was
necessary that he should practice the patience
he was frequently preaching about to poor,
ruddy-faced souls whose crops had failed, or
to mahogany-checked fishermen whose crawls
had gone adrift in a gale.

Agatha had been at Falmouth some weeks
when one day, quite unexpectedly, Mr.
Clayton received a letter from his brother,
the doctor, dated at London, saying he had
come home for a whiff of English air; and
next afternoon the doctor arrived, having
reached England by the Walworth Castle
three days before. There was real excitement
in all this for Wyloe Vicarage. The
brothers sat far into the night talking, and
next day Dr. Clayton, on being introduced to
Mr. Fortescue, took him by the hand and
expressed his gratitude and happiness that

Agatha should have won the affection of such
a man as ^Nlr. Clayton had represented his
curate to be.

What, then, could seem surer than that
there was to be no very long call made upon
Mr. Fortescue's patience ? And this looked
likelier still when the doctor proceeded to
Falmouth for the purpose of talking the
matter over with Agatha's relatives and then
bringing her back with him to Wyloe. But
his stay at Falmouth was protracted to a
degree that neither the Vicar nor Mr.
Fortescue could understand, till the former
received a letter from him saying that
Agatha had taken a chill, which, though
it had not laid her up, had accentuated what
would have been indictable to a medical man
for some time, namely, a weakness in the
left lung, that might perilously develop if
active measures were not taken to strengthen
the organ or arrest the malady. His own
opinion, he added, would not satisfy him,
though he did not doubt his diagnosis ; he
would, therefore, take Agatha direct to
London, and obtain the highest opinion
procurable.

And the end ? It was this. The lung was
slightly, but very slightly, affected, and the
advice was that the girl must go a voyage,
return to Bombay with her step-father and
then come back to her lover, who would
have to wait till then before he could marry
her. Was ever a blow crueller ? To bear
it, needed all the fortitude a man gets who
believes in God's goodness ; for it was not
only the hardship of a separation, shattering
the dream of immediate union, it was the
feeling in them both that she was leaving,
touched with disease's forefinger, the mark
whereof might prove cancerous and consuming,
though, under Heaven, the old
ocean which they both loved would restore
her stainless in health and glowing to the
heart that must now await the result in the
little English village.

Thus you will understand the meaning of
the leave-taking that is happening in the
cabin below, and how the sorrow, the tears,
the prayers which form it, sanctify it to a
height that prohibits intrusion.

THE Merula SAILS.

The Deal boatman, over the side in his
punt, with his painter made fast to a mizzen
channel plate well astern out of the road of
the gangway, was beginning to grow impatient.
Already he seemed to have got what
he would term ' a kink ' in his neck, by staring
aloft for any head over the rail resembling
the parson he had rowed aboard. Nor was his
temper much improved by the midshipman
in charge of the gangway refusing to permit
him to haul alongside and step on deck.
But his patience was not to be taxed
much longer. Twenty minutes before sundown
the captain's gig dashed alongside,
the skipper mounted the steps, the middies
and others hooked the boat on astern and
hoisted her to the davits there. The pilot,
leaning against the brass rail that ran athwart

the break of the poop, was looking across
the glassy surface into the east, where a bank
of clouds showed their brows crimson against
the evening blue with the reflection of the
astonishing glory of red and gold, of pink
hollowing into the pale-green lagoons, of
angry scarlet and streaks of living yellow fire
that was burning to the zenith from the west
and overhanging the Channel, till the water,
from where the coast of France hung in a
thread of mist, resembled blood flowing
crimson over the sea-line, and thinning out
into pale red as it approached the Downs.
He and the captain spoke together, and it
was then that Mr. Fortescue came hastily
out of the cuddy accompanied by Dr.
Clayton.

My dear friend," exclaimed the doctor,
*' you must cheer up — you really must. 'Tis
a hard and bitter parting, I know ; much too
hard, much too bitter. I felt it would be so
when I saw you coming ; but think only of
the sweetness of the meeting, not the sadness
of the farewell. Time flies fast ; who that
lives knows not that ? Be patient, give us
both your prayers ; she will return sound

in health, not dearer than she Is now," —
Fortescue lifted his hand as though in pain —
'' but the fitter for such a love as subsists
between you, which ought not, Fortescue,
which really ought not to be menaced by
such a destroyer as consumption."

The tears were bubbling out of the worthy
man's honest, dusky eyes as he spoke, and it
was the contrast which their wholesome and
natural exhibition of emotion established that
made the tearless, pallid, grief-fixed face of
the young clergyman a thing painful and
miserable to behold. It was like a countenance
changed into stone, at a moment when
the heart-agony was acutest. He took the
doctor s hand, and his ashen lips stirred, but
for a moment or two no sound escaped them.
He breathed quickly, with an hysterical
swiftness almost — and well would it be for
those natures of deep feelings and marble
exteriors did hysteria sometimes visit them
and wash the fever out of the brain by tears
and whispered, " The Heavenly Maker
who will watch over her knows what I cannot
say — what my hopes are — what my life must
be till she comes to me again ; but "

His voice failed him, he put his hand to his
throat, and walked to the gangway.

The midshipman there, watching him
approach, perceived his condition, and with
a touch of pity in his young voice that might
have made the boatman think he meant to
be sarcastic, ordered the punt alongside.
Fortescue entered her, and as the boatman
shoved off, the shrill, prolonged whistle swept
right fair into the purple gloom above the
masthead, followed by the hurricane roar of
the boatswain summoning all hands to get
the ship under weigh.

"I'd pretty near made up my mind you
was a passenger," said the boatman, settling
himself to the oars. "You was so long
aboard, sir." And he muttered to himself,
"And cuss me if I didn't think I should have
to tow down to get my money."

Fortescue paid no more heed to him than if
he had been the buoy that slightly leaned
westwards with the tide, whose rippling there
blurred the red, still, crystalline surface. He
stood up, turning his back on the boatman
to look at the ship, and slightly waved his
hand to the doctor who was flourishing his

hat in the gangway, then let drop his arms
and clasped his fingers, gazing with intensity.
The breeze was coming along out of the eastwards
slowly, in a defined shadow that made
indigo of the water under the single star that
glimmered over it. and as it neared, you saw
the fibrine-like feelers of air it threw out,
like the clutching of antennae, at the polished
surface. Indeed the wind resembled a living
thing crawling along, and ere the boat was
twenty of her own lengths distant from the
Indiaman, the great ensign at the peak stirred
its folds, and then blew lazily out as it was
hauled down for sunset.

Suppose there'll be some weight in this
here draught presently," said the boatman,
addressing the back of the clergyman, "would
you when I put you aboard that them Indiamen
are always in a hurry to get away."

They had manned the great windlass, for
the Merula was thus equipped, though the
capstan was the rule in large ships in those
days, and a swarm of men at each handle
was making the pals speak like the blows
of a Cyclops's hammer, to mingle with the
getting clank of the cable grinding link after

link through the iron hawse-pipe, when the
sound was suddenly and rudely harmonised
by the hoarse, peculiar notes of a seaman
breaking into one of the windlass songs of
that time, re-echoed presently by the stormy
crossing of the men. The singing swept
with the note of a sudden roar of wind in it
past the boat from which Fortescue stood
gazing, whilst the boatman rowed softly, forgetting
his business in the interest he took in
the sight ; and whenever the chorus was
repeated, the ear seemed to catch an echo of
it coming back thin and weak from the coast.
It was a plaintive tune — most of the working
songs on shipboard were — and distance
sweetened it, and it added, somehow, a deeper
oceanic meaning to the picture of the India-man,
as inch by inch she was brought closer
to her anchor, with hands on the booms and
yards, casting adrift the gaskets and seeing all
ready for hoisting and sheeting home.

The sunset blaze had almost faded, and the
purple had fined into the evening shadow
leaving the moon bright in the south-east, yet
the lingering twilight had lustre enough in it
to throw the ship up plainly, only that she

appeared the more beautiful and romantic for
the shadowy and phantom softness of the
dusk upon her. The water was now everywhere
rippling to the air, and the shaft of
moonlight trembled at its base beyond the
Merula, though it was steady pearl upon the
horizon. The boat was nearly three-quarters
of a mile from the vessel by this time, and all
the while the clergyman stood watching.

Suddenly the chorus and the clanking of
cable and windlass ceased, some quick cries
were uttered, and in a breath the yards and
heights of the ship were transferred into
clouds standing dark against the moonlight
beyond. The stem of the boat grated upon
the Deal shingle, and Fortescue. quickly
asking the man the charge for the hire, paid
without a word the sovereign the fellow
unblushingly asked and would have fallen
hoarse with impudence over had it been
refused him, and walked towards a part of
the beach that was deserted, and there
stood watching.

By this time the anchor was off the ground,
and the Merula, paying off to the southward,
was shortening her length till the lights in

her stern cabins filled the blackness above
the counter with a row of illuminated squares.
Sail had been made on her with wonderful
despatch. She was clothed from the royal
masthead to the waterways, and as she
moved slowly round to her course with a
winking of lights along her length, she raised
against the silvery atmosphere past her three
dark pyramids that made the sea solemn with
their majestic outlines. Never more bland
and errand and beautiful could she have

o

looked to the eyes of one desiring hereafter
to recall his last sight of her as a fabric
holding in its heart an object more precious
to him than his love of God would have
suffered him to own in prayerful confession
to Heaven, than she now appeared — mere
mirage as she was — the airiest phantasy for the
darkness to dissolve — as she held her canvas
erect against the misty sheen under the
moon, so that every sail stood out clear as
carvings in jet on mother-of-pearl, not the
foot of a staysail, nor the curve of a clew,
nor the projection of a yard-arm being missed;
until, dimming as she drew away from the
flowing light, her sails grew pale and her

hull faint In the shadow going out dark to her
with the deeper hue the freshening wind was
putting into the sea.

Fortescue strained his eyes : the headland
had not yet concealed her ; right over her a
meteor of brilliance broke, and sailed down
the sky upon the course the vessel was
taking. His glance was courted by the
glittering exhalation. It vanished and when
he looked for the ship again he saw nothing
but the stars which her canvas had eclipsed.

THE DREAM.

FoRTESCUE reached Wyloe on the following
afternoon. They had to coach it in those
days, and leaving Deal early in the morning
he did not arrive at his home till five in the
afternoon. He lodged at a little house near
the church. His rooms were so small that he
could never, without inconvenience, entertain
more than one friend at a time to smoke a
pipe with him of an evening. In one corner
stood a table covered with theological works ;
a fiddle lay on the sofa ; the engravings on
the walls were naval, and a looking-glass,
about a hundred years old, embellished the
mantelshelf Many persons might have
wondered that he could put up with such
little lodgings, but the fact was there was
none better to be had. The Vicarage was
the only house with fairly-sized rooms within



a walk of five miles. The other habitations,
many of which were wooden, as was Mr.
Fortescue's, made a street of low-roofed
structures, with here and there a turning that
took you past other still lower-roofed structures
; the sea, gleaming in the distance,
sweetened the place with its breath and
neighbourhood, and there were little gardens
and groups of fine trees, and a beautiful
avenue to make a quaint and charming place
of Wyloe in the summer months.

Fortescue arrived, cleansed himself from the
dust of the long drive and sat himself down
for a spell of rest and a cup of tea before
walking over to the Vicarage. Throughout
the previous night at Deal, during which he
had never slept, and throughout his journey,
he could think of nothing but the Indiaman
fading out upon the night under the expiring
spangles of the meteor that had sailed along
the sky over the exact course it was the
ship's business to steer ; of nothing but that
and of her whom the ship had borne away
from his heart into the stillness and the darkness
of the deep. He sat, leaning his head
on his hand, and his eyes vacantly fixed,

VOL. I. E

dwelling and brooding on the evening picture
he had beheld from the Deal beach, often
disposed to lament the resolution that had
impelled him to go and see the ship pass by,
with a shudder troubling him when memory-brought
him to the visionary aspect the lofty
fabric offered as she vanished ; then, with his
eyes moistening, to the sweetness and the
bitterness of the thought of her when the last
kiss had been given, the last, yearning clinging
of her to him relaxed, the last look taken
as he passed through the cabin door and
caught a glimpse of her falling into her chair
with buried face, and bosom heaving to the
grief all further lingering could but increase.

After awhile he aroused himself and walked
to the Vicarage. Mr. Clayton and his wife
were at home, and the curate was warmly
greeted by these simple, home-rooted people,
as a man who had undergone an adventure
and was safely arrived out of It.

*' Well," said the Vicar, looking half-anxiously,
half-doubtfully, at the young man,
'' You have come to tell me I was right to
advise you not to attempt the journey on so
bare a chance — you did not see the ship ?"

'* But I did," replied Fortescue, with a
mournful smile.

"Is it possible now ?" cried the Vicar.
'' How quite miraculous that you should
have timed your arrival so as to see her pass !
It's positively wonderful ; for had she gone
outside the Goodwin Sands, you know, you
would have missed her."

** But are you sure, Mr. Fortescue, that the
vessel you saw was the \"erulam ?" inquired
Mrs. Clayton.

I found her at anchor when I arrived at
Deal. She was lying about a mile distant,
exactly opposite the town," said Fortescue.

"Lying at anchor!" exclaimed the Vicar,
who, spite of his having a few fisher-folk
among his congregation, had the least
imaginable knowledge of the sea, "why?"

Because it was calm, there was no wind,"
replied Fortescue. Then addressing Mrs.
Clayton, he said, " I went on board and saw

Agatha, and " he was proceeding, when

his lips blanched and tightened, and he ceased.

There was a short silence, and then the
Vicar, in the gentlest manner, said : " How
wonderful are God's ways I Who amongst us

LIBRARY

•w^vERsmr OF \ujmi9

could have supposed that your journey would
have resulted in a second parting ? Is it for
the best ? It must be, it must be, as all things
are ; but it will have meant another hard
wrench to you both, harder than I could have
borne, harder than I should have courted."

They asked the curate how Agatha had
looked. He could only answer that she was
very white, due, he knew, to her agitation.
Yet, as her white face was the last impression,
and as it accentuated her delicate appearance,
he feared he would not be able to think of
her as otherwise, and that would add a new
sorrow to his thoughts.

Oh, you must shake away such fancies,"
said the Vicar, putting what little heartiness
his bad health permitted into his words.
'the sea will soon give colour to her
cheeks ; and then imagine that, perhaps,
when my brother is congratulating himself
on the happy change working in her, here
are you pining over her white face, which,
under God will, six or eight weeks hence, be
as like what it now is as I am like what I
was when I was a romping boy at school."

But both the Vicar and his wife knew too

well the wonderful love that this man bore
his sweetheart, the wound that had been
dealt by the parting and the necessity for it,
to put even the softest tone of chiding into
their efforts to cheer him. They showed
their sympathy best, perhaps, as they certainly
helped him most, by talking about her
and getting him to relate as much as he
chose to tell of their meeting and farewell,
and then of the appearance of the ship, her
passengers and the like. For Agatha had gone
straight from Wyloe to London with her
step-father and sailed from Gravesend ; so
that whatever Fortescue had remarked in the
ship to describe interested them mightily,
not merely because she was the fabric in
which the doctor and Agatha were to make
the passage to Bombay, but because the
Vicar and his wife and their daughter, who
came in when they were talking, were
intelligent people who could take more than
rural interest in hearing a description of a
great East Indiaman, and in thinking of the
skill that enabled beings whose stature was
rendered wonderful if it exceeded six feet, to
convey her through darkness and sunshine,

under blue skies and flashing storms, across
an element of which a few square leagues
were wide enough and deep enough to
drown and contain all the generations of the
earth since the days of Noah.

But the curate's singular fancifulness, that
in religious matters took the name of
mysticism, stole out when they talked of the
ship, and the two ladles listened with an
increasing appreciation of his symbolising
mood, though the more prosaic Vicar sometimes
slightly shook his head, when, In a
low voice full of melancholy, and with
a far-away look In his lustrous dark eyes,
Fortescue spoke of his watching the ship
from a lonely part of the beach, where the
rippling of the water upon the shingle made
a sound of weeping, and how the meteor had
broken over her and vanished along her
course, and how the night with Its moonshine
flowing into the sea, that went away In ebony
from both silvered sides of its reflection,
seemed to draw the pallid phantom of the
Indiamen into its folds, less with the absorption
of distance than with the apparent
resolution of her bv the vast shadow. It

o:>

was plain — Indeed he made It so — that the
spectacle to him presented the mighty and
overwhelming sight of death effacing life— of
the darkness of the grave eclipsing the light
of hope — and they noticed him shudder when
he spoke of the coldness that came off the
water widening desolately under the low stars
around the Foreland, ere he turned his back
upon it when the ship had vanished.

All this, and more that he talked of that
evening, merely Indicated In the Mar's
opinion a highly-strung, nervous system
debilitated by grief and injuriously influenced
in Its weakness by a vigorous imagination
fretting over Its own fears. One remedy the
good man felt sure must lie in prayer, and
his proposal found the others speedily kneeling
with hidden faces, whilst, with uplifted
eyes and fingers clasped and trembling, he
prayed for protection for those who were
now upon the sea, for health for her whom
his entreaties specially concerned, and for
patience and tranquility of mind and reliance
upon his Maker's love and goodness, for him
whose heart was aching.

Fortescue returned to his lodgings v/Ith his

thoughts about Agatha, his grief, his anxieties,
quickened by his talk at the Vicarage, the
prayers there, the confessions he had made
respecting the fancies excited in him by the
phantom-Hke banishment of the Indiaman, asa
swifter beat is put into the pulse by fever.
It was a glorious night, fair as yesterday's, with
a fuller, clearer, icier radiance of moonshine
the dusty road gleaming like pearl, houses
and trees casting jet-like shadows, and a faint
hum in the breathless air that a sailor would
have recognised as the purring of the sea. but
coming from God knows where, for it seemed
on all sides. Figures stirred here and there ;
a couple standing at a corner, a woman flitting
through a doorway ; and, in places, the
light of a candle dimly showed a transparency
of a lozenge-shaped glass staring like an
idiot's eye against the soft glory of the moon.
Fortescue went out of his way by a short
round and came to an avenue of trees ; fields
pale as mist lay beyond, intersected by a path
that resembled a winding length of silver
riband ; under the trees it was an exquisite
disagree of pearl and ebony, without a stir,
for there was not air enough to move the

topmost leaf; and there was a big pool of
moonlight at the foot of a tree against the
trunk of which Fortescue leaned, hat in hand,
with his eyes fixed on the orb.

He formed a picture fit to startle a man,
for he was motionless as the tree that supported
him, and though his shape showed
very plainly what he was, yet you might
have watched him for ten minutes without
better assurance of his being living than
his eyes, which seemed to hold all his
vitality. His head ached, the arteries there
throbbed, and the dewy coolness of the place
soothed like a love caress. Possibly he
wanted the calmness of mind needful to
sleep, and felt that he had a better chance of
getting it in the coolness outside than in his
small rooms ; but that was not quite it. The
truth was, just where he was now standing
he had once stood with Agatha and asked
her to be his wife ; here she had accepted
him ; here she had received his first kiss ; and
so restless was he with thoughts of her that
he could not help coming to this place, where
the loneliness was perfect and where the
repose of the sleeping branches was like a

hush in the air, and leaning against the treble
well remembered, and looking at the
moon that shone fair down betwixt two
spreading boughs, whilst he thought of the
ship the orb was beautifying, and of his dear
one, and of the dark sea ever widening
betwixt the softly-wafted fabric and the
shore she had quitted.

He left the avenue and walked to his
lodgings, a third of a mile distant. He had
flattered himself that by this time he had
gained some composure of mind ; but he
found out his mistake when he took up a
book, intending to give half-an-hour to its
contents. His eyes went down uhe page as
though they were in confederacy with his
heart to cheat his intelligence. Not a
sentence of his author's meaning did he
gather ; as how was it possible he should
when his mind was leagues away in the
Indiaman's cabin ? Putting down the book
he lighted a candle and went to bed. The
moonlight lay broad on his window, and
finding himself sleepless, despite a strong
feeling of physical weariness, he rose and
pulled up the blind and lay in the clear, bland

light, watching the ripples of it gliding along
the wall with the westering of the orb, till
its lustre lay on a little writing-table near
the chimney-piece, after which it crept,
narrowing into a streak, when it vanished,
and the small room darkened to the window
that glimmered against the atmosphere,
which was still light with the moonshine.

He fell asleep about this time, and dreamt
this dream : —

There stretched before him an ocean that
seemed wider by many leagues than the
confines of the horizon permit the sea to
show to waking: eves ; a merry breeze was
whipping the deep blue water into long, low
lines of billows, which, as they ran and
melted into foam, resembled beams of light ;
the sky was a hard azure, with a tropical
intensity in the wide, bald glare of it round
the sun, that was a globe of molten gold,
rayless and fiery, poised, as the dreamer beheld
it, in the very centre of the firmament.

Under the luminary, whose burning effulgence
was like folds of heat made hotter by
the motion of the wind, a large ship wassailing,
leaning over to the breeze, and the

sleeper distinctly beheld the spacious canvas
that clothed her high and heeling masts, the
sparkling of the windward water leaping in
prismatic masses against her side, the wake
that poured out boiling from her rudder,
beautiful as snow, save where it was
shadowed by the ship's counter, on which
was painted in large letters the word
"Merula." Figures moving about her, on
her decks, in her rigging, he seemed to see,
but dimly, with the sense of their being
there rather than with the perception of
them as actualities. It was otherwise with
the ship ; her he saw as distinctly as you
see the reflection of an object that comes
out in many glorious tints, all exquisitely
clear upon a bubble. She was always sailing,
always receding, yet never diminishing ; the
sun stood overhead like a pool of liquid, red-hot
ore that had leaked through a central hole
in the hard, feverish, brassy lightness of blue
sky. And the name " Merula" lay white on
the counter, whose shadow darkened the
ship's wake under it.

The vision changed. It was a dark night,
blowing stormily, with lightning glaring out

Upon the heaps of rushing vapour ; and now
and again a greenish streak of moonshine
flashed suddenly over the rim of a cloud, and
touched the swollen and foaming waters with
a swift yet sullen lustre that was like the
electric leaping themselves for the wild formidableness
and hellish glitter of its play
alongside the lightning. Whenever these
tempestuous flares of the sky shone, a ship
showed up out of the hollows in which she
was leaning and plunging, hove-to under a
narrow strip of topsail and with her powerful
weather bow driving back the lion-like leap
of the black surge, till it rose to the flashing
of the moon or the lightning in a hill of
spume that blew to leeward in a vast cloud.
The dreamer watched her with terror, with
muttering lips and twitching fingers. Every
heave of the vessel's head into the troughs
flung up her name " Merula," as if it were
written .in fire, and there was a red dullness
of lantern-light about her decks as though
every soul were awake, watching and in fear,
that gave a singular element of terror to this
visionary presentiment. Suddenly a tongue
of flame, reaching as high as the foretop, shot

out betwixt the foremast and the forecastle,
making a daylight about the ship that eclipsed
the lightning and the flying moonshine. It
vanished, but when it flew, writhing up again,
it illuminated a picture of consternation and
horror, in the blind sayings and rushing of
the swarming people, the more agonizing to
the soul of the slumberer to behold, since its
vagueness left its reality to be interpreted by
the imagination of the sleeper, or whatever
the quality or instinct may be that operates in
dreams. The clouds broke up, the haze of
the dawn pierced and filled their valleys and
ravines, and the tropical morning rose in a
dingy brown upon a livid, swelling sea, sulky
with conflict, and a ship on fire !

The sleeper was a young clergyman, as
Ignorant of shipboard manoeuvring as any
girl. Yet he saw what followed as clearly as
if the actual thing were happening under his
gaze. He beheld the gangs of men passing
buckets along, the water gushing from the
hoses, the holes cut in the deck for drowning
the hold, the gradual gaining of the fire
by its encroachments aft, driving the men
into the waist, then to the quarter-deck, then

to the poop, he beheld the ship pitching
heavily and sluggishly as she ran before the
seas with dense volumes of smoke, gashed
and streaked by crimson flames, blowing
ahead of her. the fall of now a yard, now a
mast, now the snapping and swinging in of a
thick shroud or backstav burnt through, and
always the word " VERULx\M " came out
in staring and glaring letters against the
background of fire and sooty smoke when the
ship's counter was hove right up to it. or
glimmered faint with the sternwards stoop
of the vessel into the shadow all about her
rudder, ere she submerged the place where
it was written.

Again the vision changed. Once more
the sun was shining with blinding dazzle and
scorching heat from the middle of the clear
sky, and on the left-hand side of its brilliant
wake the dreamer saw a ship's boat sailing
before a quiet wind. Some figures in her
leaned with their arms over the side, and
their heads lolled as if they were corpses.
There was the suggestion in her of having
been exposed for days to parching heat and
moist nights, God knows how conveyed to

the dreamer, if it did not lie in the dusty and
gossamer-Hke aspect of the sail, and in the
pallid hue of the painted thwarts and sides.
She was but a tiny boat in the dreamer's
sight upon that mighty ocean, yet he could
clearly see the faces of those who were in
her, and he looked from the person who
steered her by a tiller, and whom he knew to
be the boatswain of the Merula, to Agatha
who was seated by his side, erect, but of a
deathlike whiteness than he had seen her
when they parted, with the froth of thirst
upon her blue lips and her eyes bloodshot
and glazed. He wept, he moaned in his
sleep ; it was wonderful that the agony he
was now in did not wake him. Whence did
he watch ? He was neither on shore nor at
sea ; but what could matter an inconsequent
of this kind in a dream so terrible in its
vividness that the hair of the sleeper stirred
to the horror that was in his soul, and the
sweat-drops broke from his forehead ? The
breeze freshened, the boat ran swiftly, but
tossed dangerously upon the billows. Suddenly
an island uprose right ahead. The slumberer
watched it rapturously as it took form and

colour, feeling in himself the madness that
was in the boat, the hunger, the thirst and
despair there, and with marvellous distinctness
the island shaped itself upon the sight.
It was like a camel sipping the water with
legs submerged. There was verdure on it,
and he spied tracks of glittering coral strand,
cocoa-nut trees, sloping surfaces covered with
bush ; but nothing living, if it were not
flights of sea-fowl sailing over the land. All
this the dreamer noted, greedily searching
for any sparkle of fresh water, till the boat,
entering the surf, capsized. He watched,
whilst here and there a black object showed,
and presently he saw some figures crawl
ashore, one of whom was agatha, supported
by the man who had steered the boat. She
left him and fell on her knees, and, after
praying, rose, and turning so that her face
was perfectly visible to the dreamer, she extended
her arms seawards, as though to him,
with a most dreadful expression of anguish
and hopelessness in her staring, hollow eyes.
In this passionate, appealing posture was she
when the vision faded, and the sleeper lay
in a deep and dreamless slumber.

VOL. I. F

THE SKETCH.

Mr. Fortescue awoke at seven o'clock in
the morning, the hour he punctually rose at,
and the instant that consciousness became
fully alive, the memory of his dream possessed
him, and for some minutes he lay thinking of
it, with a sense of exhaustion and grief so
strong that it was impossible for him not to
perceive how violent must have been his
distress during the night.

He said to himself: It is but a dream!
But there was no comfort to be got from
that reflection. Nay, it heightened the
emotion of terror which the recollection of
the vision brought with it, to reflect that the
scenes he had beheld, painted upon the
darkness of his sealed eyes and upon the
sable canvas of sleep — the blue sky, the
flashing sun, the burning ship, the storm of

lightning mingled with moonlight, the lonely-boat,
the appealing figure of his adored girl
that these things which, now that he was
awake, alarmed, almost stunned him with
their hard, inexorable reality, were thinner
than air, were less than the shadow of a
shadow, were a dream only ! The quality of
superstition in him grew active. What did
the vision signifying It was a prophecy or
nothing, for the ship could not yet be fairly
out of the Channel, and the sky that he
beheld was Indian, and the boat he had
followed to the island had been for days
adrift. Did God speak to man in dreams ?
He believed that as certainly as he believed
in God himself; but every instinct in him
shrunk from putting a Divine interpretation
on the vision, for then he would have to
accept it as a revelation of the truth, of a
whisper from Heaven telling him what was
to happen ; whereas to think of it as a dream
merely was to neutralise its influence, was to
rob it of its terrors by an easy reference of
its origination to the fancies and feelings
which had crowded his mind whilst he
lingered in the avenue, whilst he walked

home, and whilst he lay In his bed watching-the
passage of the moonbeams.

He rose and was dressing himself, burled
in thought, when his eye was caught by the
appearance of the little writing-desk that
stood In the recess by the chimney. It had
been moved ; there was a chair in front of
it ; there was a feather pen in the Inkstand,
and on a pad were some sheets of paper.
He stood looking a moment, quite certain
that this had not been the disposition of the
table and chair on the previous night. He
also knew that the inkstand and pen were In
his sitting-room downstairs when he came
to bed. A shudder ran through him, for he
was in a mood to be violently affected by a
little thing. He walked to the table and
glanced at the paper.

On it was firmly and carefully traced in
ink the exact outline of the island he had
beheld in his sleep, the island to which in
his dream he had followed the boat. But it
was something more than a sketch. Every
feature that he had noticed — the trees, the
bush, the shining open spaces, nay, the
whirling procession of birds — was here

reproduced, not even rudely, but with the
precision that might be expected in the work
of a man who sketches with anxiety that
nothing that could be shown in black and
white must be omitted.

Mr. Fortescue pressed his hand to his
forehead ; he feared he was going mad.
How was he to know that what he saw was
not an illusion of his senses ? He went to
the window, breathing quickly and trembling,
and looked forth upon the bright summer
morning, then came to his bedside and knelt
in prayer, so praying as to cause him to feel
that his mind was clear, steadfast, strong as
ever in this sacred relation, and he arose
quieted. But a painful trembling and
agitation seized him afresh when he looked
at the drawing on the paper, for how
came it there ? Who had beheld with
him the vision he had watched in his sleep,
and firmly sketched the closing part of it ?
With a violent mental effort he shook off the
dreadful and distressing imaginations which
were mastering him and finished dressing
himself by which time his mind had grown
more collected.

He went to the table and was about to fold?
up the sketch and put It It Into his pocket,
when, governed by some Impulse he never
paused to resist or Inquire Into, he sat down
and swiftly wrote on a second sheet of paper
all that he could recollect of his dream ; more
particularly describing the boat and such of
her occupants as he could recall out of the
faintness and dimness In which all the human
beings he had beheld, saving Agatha and the
boatswain of the Merula In the last stage of
it, had swarmed rather than moved and acted
before him.

This done, he went downstairs to his
sitting-room. He rang the bell ^or breakfast,
but so engrossed was he that he was
unconscious he had summoned his landlady
till she entered with his light morning
meal. She watched him In a sideways,,
furtive fashion, as she prepared the table,
till, observing a look come into his face
that was like a question to her, she said,
'' I am afraid you didn't sleep very comfortable
last night, sir."

"Why do you say that, Mrs. Goldsmith?
Do I look as though I had passed a bad

night?" he asked, with a slightly forced smile
that instantly vanished.

"Well, I might guess it by your appearance,
even if there was nothing better to go by,"
said the landlady; "but we heard you moving
about a good deal, and "

He interrupted her by an exclamation and
was about to speak, but checked himself
violently, turning whiter with the effort, and
in a tone of composure said, " Oh, so you
heard me moving: about a good deal ?"

Yes, sir ; and my husband, hearing you
go downstairs and then come up again and
walk about your room, supposed you might
be in pain and took the liberty of getting upto
see if he could be of any service."

"Thank him very much, if you please.
Yes, it is strange," said he, with startled eyes
yet in a quiet voice, "that I did not hear
him."

He knocked at the door, and getting no
answer made him more anxious ; so he
opened it and looked in."

"Well?"

"You were at the table writing. You'll
forgive me for saying he considered it curious,

for there was no candle burning, and the
moon was off the window, and the dawn too
weak to show modern your figure. He came
back to me and said he thought you were all
right, and put down your moving about to not
being able to sleep for the heat and for other
reasons," said she, lowering her eyes, for Mr.
Fortescue's love-trouble was well-known to
her as to every other person in that slender
community of souls.

*' Did he address me ? If so, I did not hear
him. I was deeply lost in thought, no doubt."

'' So he allowed. He didn't speak. He
shut the door on ye. You looked as if you
was writing, but that couldn't be— of course,
you know, sir ; if you didn't hear him, likely
enough you had sat down and fallen asleep.
But anyways," said she, with a reaching out
in her manner after a touch of cheerfulness,
perceiving with feminine clearness that the
subject must be dropped, *' so long as you
wasn't in pain or anything like that, there's
nothing the matter to speak about."

She left the room, and Mr. Fortescue,
seating himself, pulled out the sketch he had
found on his bedroom table, and pored over

It with the pulse in his temple hammering
upon the palm of his hand, and his chest
heaving with hysteric swiftness.

Of course, he now understood how that
sketch had been made. He had walked in
his sleep, and that circumstance alone shocked
him, as it shocks most people when told
they are somnambulists, because it is horrible
to be influenced by passions and feelings
whilst the brain sleeps and reason's throne is
empty, and no one can imagine what the
secret man within him, so secret as not to
be known or suspected in the full light of
consciousness, may be capable of when let
loose and walking ungoverned. But he was
more terrified yet when he looked at the
sketch of the island and perceived how the
spiritual part of him had been operating,
without any physical conditions to his
knowledge ; how what had been done might
have been done by an angel from Heaven,
or a phantom from the grave, instead of a
living, breathing man as he was, so unconscious
was he of its achievement, so insensible
to the impulse that had urged him. Nor
was it without awe and reverence mixed

with his terror that he gazed at the drawing.
For in what other direction of thought should
his faith, deepened by superstition, urge him,
if he did not feel that the hand of God had
been upon him that night, summoning him
from his bed to rise and depicture what the
eyes of his soul had seen, that, when he awoke
to consciousness, his material gaze might
refresh his memory to the satisfaction of
his senses ?

He barely broke his fast, but, having some
duties to perform he left the house, and it
was not until midday that he had leisure to
call at the Vicarage. By this time he had
made up his mind to relate his dream to Mr.
Clayton. His first idea had been to bury it
in his own breast, but he changed his mind ;
the burden was already oppressive ; he looked
forward with fear to the thoughts that would be
rising night after night, night after night, and
he felt that this condition of his profound perplexity
and apprehension might be lightened
by speaking to the Vicar, even though he
very well knew that there could be no peace
of mind for him until Agatha was once more
in his arms.

He found ^^Ir. Clayton alone in his study
whose open window let in the warm air, green
with the shadows of trees, pleasant with the
smell of many garden flowers, and broken by
the impatient cries of a goat straining at its
tether in the middle of the lawn. The Vicar
immediately noticed the unfamiliar expression
that had entered the curate's face, but was
chiefly struck by the febrile light in his dark
eyes. Fortescue believed that he had
mastered himself and that he appeared as
usual ; in reality, he was as changed from
the preceding day as though he had been
ill for a fortnight.

'what on earth is the matter, Fortescue?"
exclaimed Mr. Clayton, putting on his glasses
and staring through them. " Xo bad news,
I hope ?"

''A strange thing has happened to me,"
replied Fortescue. "It has affected me sO'
violently that I can think of nothing else.
It would be best, perhaps, if I could let it be
my own secret, yet talking about it may ease
my mind, and you will be able to say something
— to suggest a thought that would not
occur to me — that will tranquilise me."

The Vicar's lips parted till his mouth
lay open. Fortescue's manner was odd,
yearning, feverish, quite new in him.

"But what is it.'^" said he.

"A dream," answered Fortescue. "But
listen, Mr. Clayton," slightly lifting his hand
in deprecation of the smile that followed,
more of relief than of mirth, " so strange,
so wonderful a dream, that if it comes not
straight from God, if it be not His voice
speaking to me in my sleep, I shall cease
to believe in the reality of the visions which
came as prophecies' to the sleepers in Holy
Writ ; in them and in all like instances
since."

Mr. Clayton looked amazed. " My dear
Fortescue, pray consider," he exclaimed.
Would you imperil your faith in Divine
inspiration by staking it on the truthfulness
of a dream of your own — a dream that might
come from, from — why, even from indigestion
?"

Without answering this, Fortescue pulled
the sheets of paper, containing the sketch of
the island and the notes of the dream, from
his pocket, and mused over them for some

moments, breaking away with a start and
a long sigh. Fixing his eyes on the Vicar,
he told him of the vision that had appeared
to him, relating it more fully than I have
written it down, and in words which burnt
with the emotions his recital raised in him.
He spoke quickly, but his language had the
coherence of his dream, and he went through
it from beginning to end only as a man
could who relates facts which have deeply
impressed his soul ; and when he terminated
with the description of the posture of his
darling on the island, he started up and
extended his arms in unconscious imitation
of the wild, appealing gesture, and sobbed
three or four times with his eyes dry and
shining.

Mr. Clayton listened attentively. He
might have found more in the narrative had
it not been for Fortescue's dramatic action
at the close, which, for the moment, satisfied
him that his curate's nerves had been unstrung
by the grief of parting with Agatha,
and that he had no power of mind to resist
the influence of what was certainly a painful
dream for him to have dreamed. He said

k idly, but with the air of a man who knows
better, and consequently feels himself fit to
argue with another on his delusion : " You
really must not let a dream weigh with you,
Fortescue. Only think. What is a dream ?
Often the mere insanity of slumber, as we
see it in nightmares ; sometimes, as in your
case, a logical set of pictures. You can
easily account for your dream. You have
been thinking for days of nothing but Agatha,
and have worried yourself with thoughts of
the sea dangers she may meet. May meet
and mayn't. And if she does meet them, the
ship she is in weill outlive them. Thousands
cross the ocean in safety. Why not agatha ?"

"It is true," said Fortescue, languidly,
that the dream referred only to what you
speak of as sea dangers. But is it not a
prophecy ?"

''Of what?"

''Of disaster to her ship — of Agatha's
abandonment upon an island."

Tut ! tut ! What island could it be ? In
the tropics, do you say? Why, my good
fellow, the ship only sailed a day or two ago."

What island could it be ?" exclaimed

Fortescue, looking at the paper. '' I do not
know. I have it here — it exists, as surely as
you do who are sitting there. I could not
imagine, sleeping or waking, such an island
as that. Oh, it is real, depend upon it. Its
latitude and longitude are known."

He spoke with his eyes fixed on the
sketch. Mr. Clayton said : —

'' Do I understand you that you have the
island there ?"

Fortescue handed him the drawing. The
Vicar peered at it.

'• Why did you draw this ? To impress the
island of your dream upon your memory ?"
he asked, looking at him attentively over his
glasses, for the sketch persuaded him that
Fortescue was even more affected by his
dream than his narration of it suggested.

I found it upon a writing-table in my
bedroom this morning when I awoke,"
answered the curate. '' Mrs. Goldsmith told
me she had heard me moving about in the
night, and so unquestionably I must have left
my bed, fetched writing materials from the
room downstairs, sketched the island, and
returned to bed ; for I was in bed when I

awoke. To prove that I have not the least
recollection of the circumstance, Mrs. Goldsmith
informed me that her husband, thinking
I was ill, knocked at the door, opened it, and
saw me seated at the writing-table. Had I
been conscious I must have heard him knock
and open the door."

Mr. Clayton's face wore an expression of
wonder. He again examined the sketch,
this time as if it were an object of mystery
and rarity, and said, " Did you ever walk in
your sleep before ?"

.*' Never, to my knowledge. Were it a
practice, no matter how long the intervals
between, I am certain to have heard of it."

*' It is certainly strange," said the Vicar,
musingly; "but still, Fortescue, it is not a
thing to worry over — only a dream, you
know." Fortescue did not answer. "Your
rising and making this sketch in your sleep
certainly gives it mysterious accentuation,
but merely to people who are superstitious.
You know you drew the island in a fit of
somnambulism, so the supernatural vanishes.
A mystery that can be accounted for ceases
be a mystery. That sounds obvious, but

it Is worth saying. \\'hy you walked, or
rather acted, in your sleep is quite intelligible.
Only consider for a moment what is meant
by the nervous system ! Here is a complex
web of fibres, with the intellect like a spider
in the midst of It. Agitate the web and you
disorder the spider. Break down the web
and the spider vanishes into a hole — anywhere.
That is insanity. Your nerves
have — indeed, it is quite apparent that they
have — been much more affected than you
yourself are aware by fretful and worrying
thoughts. The mind, affected by the nerves,
has coined a strange and startling vision,
the effect of which, acting upon the nervous
system that is too feeble to resist psychologic
influence, is to produce somnambulism. Why
you should have sketched the island — why
you should not have drawn the burning
ship — why, in short, you should or should
not have done anything else than you
did, who can say ? This Is the only
mystery, but it is a mystery that Is constantly
happening in the lives of people
who find themselves acting In a way that
surprises, delights, or pains them afterwards.

VOL. I. G

Dismiss the whole matter from your mind,
Fortescue. It is the result of an over-wrought
nervous system. A sleeping draught would
have kept the curtain down between you and
your prophetic vision."

'' You find nothing in it, then, Mr. Clayton ?
Nothing to cause you the least uneasiness
regarding Agatha ?"

The Vicar reflected, and then said, emphatically,
'' Nothing."

Fortescue picked up the sketch and put it
carefully in his pocket along with the memoranda
he had made.

"You must not let this trouble you," said
Mr. Clayton. ''If you do, it will prey upon
your mind and perhaps affect your health.
Reflect, when it pleases the Almighty to
restore Agatha to us, how grieved you will
feel that you should ever have doubted His
merciful care of your betrothed, to the extent
of suffering a dream to weaken your faith
in His willingness to answer your and our
prayers for Agatha."

Don't say that !" cried Fortescue,
vehemently. "So far from my faith being
weakened, my dream has increased it. Can

you certainly say that the vision is not the
finger of the Most High pointing to what
has yet to happen ? Who could charge me
with loss of faith for thus thinking? Is not
God present in dreams as in the life that
surrounds our waking hours ? Why do
Christians teach their children to believe in
good angels ministering to their slumber
with sweet thoughts, if it were not that they
know, as I know, that Heaven lies all about
us, in our sleep as in our waking ?"

"Yes," said Mr. Clayton, *' God is present
whether we wake or sleep ; but do not," said
he, half-soothingly, half-combative, "let the
poetry our faith is so rich in carry us beyond
those Scriptural facts it is our duty to adhere
to and not to budge from."

Fortescue rose with a faint smile that was
meant to give the abrupt movement an
expression of politeness. He was in no
mood for an argument on religion.

I will think over what you have said,"
he exclaimed. "Your views may be correct.
Help me by remembering in your prayers to
ask that my vision may prove nothing but a
dream."

** I'll not Speak to my wife or Josephine
about this," said the Vicar. "It is but a
bubble ; let it float away. Time will prick it
presently."

BAD NEWS.

The effect of Mr. Clayton's kindly-meant
check was to cause Fortescue to cork himself
up. Thought grew introspective even to
morbidity, and the melancholy of his manner
became more defined, though everybody but
the Vicar put it down to the grief he felt
through his separation from Agatha. He
had a good library of books, and devoted his
leisure in looking through them to find out
all that was in them about dreams. One
portly collection of anecdotes retailed several
examples of singular dreams that had been
verified, but the bulk of them took the
shape of ghostly visitations, the distinct
visions of mysterious figures, and the death
of the dreamer or of the person dreamt
about at the hour and by the occasion predicted.


But time went by quickly, as it will in
monotony ; and though the impression produced
in Fortescue's mind by his dream
remained as keen and as clear as on the
morning when he talked it over with the
Vicar, hope was beginning to cast the film
of its radiance over it, thus dimming its
influence upon his moods. Besides, his
work made many calls upon him, and he
put new energy into it that he might have
the more to occupy his thoughts. He felt
as most men do who are haunted by one
absorbing fancy, that the best way to
weaken it, is to dilute it with all the homely,
prosaic, simple, hearty facts to be obtained
from professional labour. Then, again,
though he believed his dream to have
come straight from God, he found himself
wavering when he reflected that if it should
prove false, his idea would be a sort of
impiety and a harsh contradiction to his
humble desire to believe in his Maker's love
and goodness. By degrees he schooled his
mind, he disciplined his fancies, he strove by
prayer to persuade himself into hopefulness,
though never could he bring his understanding

to such a state of hope but that
his own Highest recurrence to his dream and
the sketch he had made in his sleep sent a
chill to his heart and a shudder through his
frame.

There was no prospect of hearing from
Agatha under eight or nine months. She had
to arrive before she could write, and her
passage to Bombay and the return of her
letter, even if there was a ship ready to sail
with it immediately, were, put together, to be
reckoned at not less than the time I have
said. Yet, as month after month passed, Mr.
Clayton would tell Fortescue cheerfully that
they were only so many days now — two
hundred, one hundred and fifty, one hundred,
as it might be — betwixt him and Agatha's
letter announcing her safety and restored
health — nay, for the matter of that, between
him and Agatha herself, for, as he pointed
out to the young curate, "My brother is not
likely to keep her in India, for the climate
does not suit her. He will wish her on their
arrival to get upon the sea again as soon as
possible ; so, though she may perhaps wait
for the Merula to return, you may consider

it certain that when you get her letter you
will not find her lingering many days behind
it."

January had arrived. The New Year
had begun ; all the extra parish labour of
Christmas-tide was over. It was a bleak,
grey morning ; under a surface of slate a
bitter north-easter was wildly driving the
sulphur coloured scud ; the trees stood black
and fibrine, like sketches in ink, with birds
forming dark nobs upon the iron-black
boughs ; and the snow, lying in streaks here
and there upon the dingy soil, was frozen
too hard for the shrieking blast to disturb.
Fortescue, in his little sitting-room, was at
work preparing a sermon, when he was
disturbed by a knock at the house-door, and
in a few minutes his landlady looked in to
say that Mr. Clayton had sent to ask him to
call at the Vicarage immediately. There
was a kind of peremptoriness in Mrs. Goldsmith's
delivery of the word " immediately "
that caused Fortescue to suspect that she was
unconsciously imitating the tone in which the
message had been delivered ; and his face
was as white as Agatha's had been when he

last saw her, as he jumped up, put his hat
on, and ran into the freezing wind.

He reached the Vicarage with his heart
beating violently. ]mr. Clayton met him ashe
entered and, without saying a word, took
him by the hand as a father might, and led
him to his study, then closed the door.

'' Fortescue," he said, " I have received
bad news."

The old man had tried to school himself,
but the presence of the young clergyman
agitated him so greatly that he spoke
brokenly and you looked to see him weep.

Is she dead ?" asked Fortescue.

''No. I have received a letter from the
owners — be seated, dear friend ; it cannot be
said that she is dead. Oh, Fortescue, think
upon God's love now — now that you may
need the fullest measure of your faith in His
compassion, to bear this news."

He took a letter from the table and gave
it to Fortescue. There was a stony lookin
the curate's eyes that made him appear
blind when he held the letter with both
hands and stared at it as though he could
not see. He shook his head, pressed his

eyelids with his fingers, and then read the
letter aloud : —

CoRNHiLL, London,

"January 12, 18

Reverend Sir,

'rit is with deep regret that we
have to inform you our ship Merula, in
which Dr. Clayton and Miss Fox were
cabin passengers, was burnt at sea on the
second of September last. A boat, containing
sixteen persons, was encountered
two days after the vessel's destruction, by
H.M.S. Pigeon, which landed them at Portsmouth
yesterday morning. All passengers
and crew got safely away in the ship's boats,
and though only one of them has as yet
been heard of, we have reason to hope, from
the excellent discipline that was maintained
throughout, and from the wise disposition
of the officers and petty officers among the
boats, whereby every boat was put in charge
of persons of experience and capable of
navigating her, that before long, news will
reach us of all the boats being accounted for.
We are unable to furnish you yet with
further particulars, but any inquiries you

may make, which will be within our power
to answer, shall be instantly attended to.
"We are, Reverend Sir,

"Faithfully yours,
Wrotham, Skinner & Farquharson.
"To the Rev. Alfred Clayton, Mea.,
Wyloe.

Pes. — We subjoin the names of persons
picked up by H.M.S. Pigeon." (Here
followed the names of sixteen men, chiefly
seamen.)

When Fortescue read the letter through,,
the Vicar looked at him and kept silent, no
more guessing how he would act — what
distressing and dreadful form his grief and
misery would take — than he could have
guessed the hour of his own death. To
his astonishment, Fortescue quietly put the
letter down, left his chair, and with his
hands locked behind him paced the room
absorbed in thought. Indeed, such was his
air of pre-occupation, that Mr. Clayton could
only gaze with wonder, as little disposed to
address him as he would have been to awaken
him were he walking in his sleep. At least
five minutes passed in this way ; an interval

of silence that seemed interminable to the
Vicar, after which Fortescue glanced at the
letter again, and said, "Mr. Clayton, is it
not true now, do you think, that my dream
came from God ?"

Mr. Clayton answered, 'the coincidence
is strange," in a voice scarce audible, so
moved was he, not perhaps so much by the
calmness and whiteness in Fortescue's face,
as by the manner in which the crushing news
was received.

"I dreamt," continued Fortescue, "that
the Merula was destroyed by fire, and
there," pointing to the letter, "is the news
of her loss. She was burned 01 the 2nd
September last, and the date makes my
dream the prophetic monition I always knew
it to be, for by the close of October she
would be in the Indian Ocean, near to the
Equator, as I beheld her in my dream, for
her position was signified by the high sunburning
over her masts and casting no
shadows that I could see."

There was a singular look in his face.
It might have been a touch of madness ; it
might have been a sudden, irresistible swelling

up of the soul rejoicing within itself at
this confirmation of its belief that God had
directly spoken to it in a dream. Whatever
it was, mr. Clayton was afraid of it, not
being able to understand it.

'* We have no right to grieve yet," said he,
with a sweep round of his eyes as though he
sought the aid of familiar objects to help him
to the commonsense mood that the young
clergyman's unexpected behaviour was rendering
rather difficult ; ''I shall consider
my brother and his step-daughter as safe,
well and hearty until news to the contrary
reaches us. You have noticed what the
owners of the Merula say"' Picking up
the letter and looking at it with his glasses
held to one eye, *' 'All passengers and crew-got
safely away in the ship's boats.' Then
again, ' we have reason to hope ' — hum — hum
'that before long news will reach us of all
the boats being accounted for.' These
people would not mislead us. ' There is
reason to hope.' I shall do so. I was
shocked, but the first consternation is
passing. Meanwhile, there is nothing to be
done but wait and pray."

His voice trembled as he said this, but
Fortescue's was quite steady as he extended
his hand for the letter, saying, " What is
the ship owners' address ?"

"Take the letter," said Mr. Clayton. '' Do
you mean to write to them ? What can they
tell you, my dear friend ? For the love of
God, who is with those who are dear to us,
have patience, have faith. Like George
Herbert's mind, yours is being used as a
sword only to cut through its scabbard.
Whatever happens, or has happened, is
God's will. I beseech you not to suffer
your grief to extinguish that consolation.
Whatever is ordered you would not surely
have otherwise, how bitter soever it be,
how lacerating, how crushing to hope, yea,
even to life."

The tears were in his eyes, and he raised
his clasped hands with a gesture full of pity
and entreaty.

Mr. Clayton," said Fortescue, in a low
voice, '' I have all the faith you could desire
for me — more faith, indeed, than I would
avow lest you should wish me less. I am
but an instrument in God's hands to be bent

as He wills, to be broken as He may wish,
to stay or go as He may direct. Leave me
to Him," he added, gently, with his dark
eyes full now of their old sweetness. "He
will lead me aright, and be assured that
whatever I do shall be done in His holy
name."

Mr. Clayton bowed his head, though
only understanding in part ; and without
another word Fortescue left the room and
the house, with a face white, indeed, as the
paper on which this is printed, but with a
fire in his eyes that made his far-away look
the wilder and stranger to the few people
he met, who touched their caps or curtsied to
him without winning a glance.

VERIFICATION.

FoRTESCUE that evening wrote a letter to
Wrotham and Co., in which, after explaining
his claims upon their attention as being
engaged to Miss Fox, he asked if they
would be so good as to tell him how and
where he might meet one or more of the
men who had been brought to England by
H.M.S. Pigeon, as their replies to certain
questions they would be easily able to answer
might greatly tranquilise his mind. This
letter he posted, and next day went about
his work as usual, presenting indeed so calm
an exterior that it needed a careful inspection
of his face to guess at his secret agitation.

Messrs Wrotham and Co. answered Mr
Fortescue's letter by return of post. 'the
best person we can refer you to," they said,
*' is Mr. Walter Jones, the third mate of the

Merula. He was in charge of the boat
that was picked up. He has been very ill,
but is now, we are pleased to know, fast
recovering. He is stopping with his mother
at No. — , High Street, Ramsgate, and we
have written him by this post to request,
should you favour him with a call, to fully
communicate all that he can tell respecting
the loss of our ill-fated ship."

Ramsgate was not very much further off
than Deal was from Wyloe. and the journey
there and back was to be made in a couple of
days, with time for a long talk between.
When he called at the Vicarage to arrange
for his absence, Mr. Clayton thought it his
duty to break into what he deemed a
uselessly sentimental whim with a bit of
commonsense argument.

*why do you want to see this third
mate ?" he said. " What can he tell you that
you do not know ; unless, indeed, you seek
fresh agitation and bitterness of mind by
learning from this sailors mouth what the
horrors of fire are at sea ?"

I wish to hear my dream confirmed."

** To what purpose .-^ It will deepen the

VOL. I. H

superstitious feeling you have suffered to
grow in you — in respect of this dream, I
mean — and if it is confirmed closely enough
to satisfy you, though the confirmation might
to a mind like mine, seem wide of the
mark, what will be the result ? You will feel
that Agatha is lost to us for ever, and this
conviction will keep you perilously miserable,
until one day the news comes that she and
my brother were picked up and landed safe
and well at — at — well, anywhere."

*' I know," said Fortescue, "that you talk
to me in this manner out of affectionate
kindness only, Mr. Clayton. But let me
humour myself."

They grasped hands, and two hours after
Fortescue had started by way of the Dover
Road for Ramsgate. It was too late for him
to call upon Mr. Jones when he arrived ; he
took a bed at a hotel and sat, till the
night was far advanced, at his bedroom
window, gazing upon the harbour and the
dim lights which winked and disappeared
at sea. The position of Deal was indicated
by a faint, flickering galaxy that
seemed to hover miles distant upon the

wintry night that was darkened by clouds
whose rolHng volumes made mere 
of the stars, and Fortescue knew
that the darkling space to the left of the
lights of Deal was the Downs where his
farewell had been taken, and over whose
waters he had watched the noble Indiaman
gliding till the dusk had blotted out the
phantom she had become. It startled him,
as the first motions of craziness might, to
think of the reality he had seen out thereon
whose solid deck he had stood, from
whose stout cabin he had withdrawn with his
cheeks wet with his darling's tears, and then
to consider that now, even as he sat musing,
the whole powerful and towering fabric was
less substantial than the air his fingers closed
upon. The weight of the darkness that
shrouded the deep seemed to press upon
his brain. What did the solemn flight of
those vast wings of vapour under the stars
up there signify, if they did not symbolise
the utter unreality of all things
affecting human consciousness, if they did
not indicate that they themselves were not
more mist-like, more dissoluble, and more

immaterial than man's handiwork and his
passions ?

With aching brow the poor fellow sought
his bed, but for hour after hour did he hear
the clocks striking and the ships' bells in the
harbour answering, and when he was aroused
at half-past eight he had not been sleeping
three-quarters-of-an-hour. The coach that
would carry him to Dover left the High
Street Inn at two, he ascertained. Time was,,
therefore, of consequence, and immediately
after breakfast he walked to the address that
had been given him as Mr. Jones's home.
It was an old-fashioned house, with small,
sparkling windows ; a green railing in front
enclosing evergreens ; such a quiet, drowsy
old place as a sailor would love to think
about when at sea.

Fortescue knocked, and was promptly
admitted by a kindly-faced old lady, who
with a curtsey pronounced his name, and
said that her son had been expecting him.
She was sympathetic and serious, judging
Fortescue's to be a melancholy errand,
from what the ship owners had written to
her son, and opening a door, she said :

■*' The Rev. Mr. Fortescue, Walter," and
withdrew.

A young fellow of about twenty rose from
an arm-chair, put down a newspaper, and
bowed to the curate. He was a sailorly-looking
person, dressed in blue serge, the tan
of weather upon his cheeks made cloudy by
the paleness of one who has been ill. " Pray
take a chair, sir," he added ; *now that I see
you I remember you as having come aboard
the Merula in the Downs."

*' Yes ; I went to say good-bye," answered
Fortescue, mastering a fit of nervousness and
the sinking, sobbing sensation that attended
such fits in him. with a great effort as he
seated himself " I was sort)' to hear that
you had been ill. Are you better ?"

** Much better, thanks. It was owing to
the shock, I think. I mean the sudden
alarm stouter fellows than I well feel when
the cry of fire is raised aboard a crowded
ship, or it might have been the anxious time
I passed in the boat, having charge of her.
But I am better, sir."

'* You w411 forgive me this intrusion "

'* No intrusion, sir. Anything I can tell

you I will, gladly. It is a miserable business
I mean the loss of the ship ; a wonderfully
fine craft, as, no doubt, you noticed."

*' Only one boat — yours — has as yet been
accounted for ?" said Fortescue, speaking
slowly and softly, for he was here to converse,
and it would not do to break down.

*' Only one as yet."

*' What do you think of the chances of the
others T'

'' Why, that their chances are as good as
our boat's were," replied the young mate,
heartily, too heartily, indeed. It caused
Fortescue to perceive that such a question
as he had put was not likely to receive
anything but a hopeful answer, and he
merely listened as Mr. Jones went on.
** They were all commanded by men of
experience ; besides, where the Merula
foundered, ships are constantly coming and
going. If we have not heard of them it is, I
have no doubt, because they have been
picked up by vessels outward bound, heading,
you don't know where — to Calcutta, Madras,
Chittagong, China ports — it's impossible to
say. We were picked up by a man-of-war

paddle steamer, a quick goer ; and she was
on her way home, though she was delayed at
the Cape. You must give luck time, sir ;
for my part I expect to hear of all the boats
in due course," he said, smiling.

"Where did the Merula founder''

'' To give it you roundly in degrees, eight
south and sixty-three east."

Fortescue put this down in his pocketbook,
from which he extracted the notes he
had made on the morning on which he had
awakened from his dream, and after running
his eye over them, he said, " Mr. Jones, I am
going to ask you a few questions."

You shall have the truth, sir."

'* Did not the fire on board the Merula
break out at night .•*"

The young sailor said, "Yes, in the middle
watch. It was about three bells — half-past
one o'clock — when the first alarm was raised."

On the afternoon preceding that night,
was the weather gloriously fine, the sun
shining in a cloudless sky, and a merry wind
blowing, yet not so strongly but that the
Merula could expand all her canvas to it ?"

Ay, it was a fine afternoon, and there

was a merry breeze, as you say," responded
the young mate, gazing with the intentness
of sudden surprise at Mr. Fortescue.

But when the fire broke out there was a
strong wind blowing, and the ship lay slantwise
— I do not know the nautical term."

Hove-to," said Mr. Jones, staring at him.

Not sailing," continued the clergyman,
'' but kept stationary, as it might be with the
yards on the first and third masts thus,"
crossing his forefingers, '* and a narrow
length of sail on the middle mast pointed to
the wind."

We were hove-to under a close-reefed
main-topsail, sir. It had come on to blow
hard in the first dogwatch," said Mr. Jones,
with his surprise fading, as he concluded now
that the minute particulars of the ship s loss
had been communicated to Mr. Fortescue by
the owners, though this set him wondering
what further information the clergyman could
expect from him.

It was a very stormy night ; there was
much lightning and thunder, with intervals of
moonlight, which made the scene very wild
and terrible."

That is right, sir."

"The fire first appeared just in front of
the first mast," said Fortescue, with a touch
of huskiness in his voice and drying his Hps
on his handkerchief.

'' Yes, it first showed forrard. They'd
noticed a smell of burning in the forecastle,
and lifted the fore hatch and a flame shot up."

'' The fore hatch is in front of the foremast
?"

Betwixt the foremast and the forecastle
front," answered the young mate, wondering,
by the singularity of these questions, whether
this clergyman was not an attorney In disguise.
But he had received his orders from
the owners, and it was his duty to answer
all questions truthfully, as indeed he had
promised.

The fire," proceeded Mr. Fortescue,
speaking slowly after a reference to his notes,
** gained upon the ship rapidly, and foot by
foot drove the people into the hinder parts
of the vessel. Holes were cut In the deck
and water poured down. Also fire-hoses
were extended, and numbers of men were
employed In passing buckets along. The

ship was put before the wind, but when the
dawn broke she was on fire from the middle
part of her to the bowsprit, and the dense
masses of clouds blew along the path over
which the wind and seas were driving her."

'' Quite right, sir ; you have the story sofar
as the burning goes. I suppose the
owners have talked to some of our men since
they questioned me. I didn't go into these
details. Yet, I shouldn't have supposed any
man among the people in my boat would
have taken such particular notice. There
was a deal of confusion."

*' Yes ; when the alarm was raised your
vessel was aglow with lantern light."

'* Ay, every man who could catch hold of
anything that showed a light brought it on
deck, and the running about was bewildering,
though all that could be done was done.
Nobody was left behind, nobody was
drowned, no boat injured in the lowering,
though the sea was high."

*' One of the boats was in charge of a tall,
powerfully-built man, with whiskers and a
rugged, pock-marked face."

"Ay, that was the bo'sun ; the second

mate ought to have had charge of that boat,
but owing to some mistake arising out of the
confusion, he jumped into the chief mate's
boat. Whether the matter was afterwards
rectified I don't know. If the owners told
you this, who amongst us could have told
them ?" and the young sailor looked with
gathering perplexity at Fortescue, while he
thought over the men who had been picked
up with him, striving to conjecture who had
given to the owners a narrative so much
fuller than he had thought needful to communicate.


Meanwhile, Mr. Fortescue, instead of
answering the young mate's question, was
musing upon a discovery he had just made,
namely, that the big, robust fellow who in
the dream had steered the boat and helped
Agatha through the surf on the beach of the
island was a person he had noticed whilst
waiting for Dr. Clayton under the break of
the Indiaman's poop ; noticed, I should say,
with the sort of glance that takes cognisance
without apparent concert with the mind.
This burly fellow was boatswain of the
Merula. Mr. Fortescue did not know this

when he was on board the ship, but he knew
it in his dream.

'you might almost have been with us,
sir!" said Mr. Jones. "You've mentioned
all that I can recollect ; I who was in it."

Did the boats keep together for any
length of time ?"

All day ; but we parted at night. Next
morning the ocean was blank."

Did you notice if there were any ladies
in the boat which the boatswain had charge

of r

I think there was, but I shouldn't like to
swear. Most of the ladies went in the longboat,
which we came near to losing, for
the fire was all about her, when, by the
extraordinary efforts of the chief officer, she
was got over the side. She was in
charge of the captain. There were females
distributed among the boats, though none in
mine."

"How long have you been at sea, Mr.
Jones ?" said Fortescue, gently, as his
manner always was, but speaking with a
steadiness that nothing but the secret
excitement, the mingling of triumphant

wonder and superstitious dread that worked
in him, could have communicated to his
manner.

"About six years, sir."

'rare you well acquainted with the Indian
Ocean T'

'why," replied Mr. Jones, "to and fro
I've crossed it seven times ; up and down it,
I mean, as the course from the Cape and
back again goes."

"Are you acquainted with the islands in
it?"

There are so many, sir. From Madagascar
to the Laccadives right away round
by Sumatra — you see, it's a big stretch of
water."

"Would it be possible, do you think, ]Mr.
Jones, to ascertain the exact situation of this
island .^" said Fortescue, handing him the
drawing he had made in his dream.

The young sailor looked at It, thought for
some moments, and looked at it again. The
dark eyes of Mr. Fortescue seemed to burn
as they remained fixed, without a movement
of the lids, on Mr. Jones's face. The young
mate shook his head. " No," said he, " I

never sighted any island resembling this.
Where is it supposed to be ?"

** In the Indian Ocean near the Equator.
But the longitude I don't know — I want to
find It out."

Was this drawn from the Island itself,
Sir r

Yes," replied Fortescue, '' from the
island itself."

'' Then couldn't the person who drew it
tell you the position of the island ?''

No, for reasons that I need not trouble
you with. How could you advise me to goto
work to find out the true situation of that
island ? I will gladly give a hundred guineas
to anyone who will tell me where It is."

The young sailor opened his eyes and lay
back in his chair, thinking. Mr. Fortescue
easily saw that he guessed something
strange and out-of-the-way lay in his visitor's
questions and in the sketch he had produced
; but he also noticed the well-bred
air with which he concealed the faintest
appearance of curiosity, and the habit of
shipboard discipline which was rendering
him perfectly obedient to the owners' request

that he should answer all questions and so
furnish the best help he could give.

He took some time to think, then said,
I don't see that you could do better, sir,
than get a number of copies made of this
island and contrive that they shall be handed
about among seafaring men."

'* Yes, that is a good idea ! But first let me
ask you, is there no chart of the Indian
Ocean that would give outlines of the island
in it, and their names and situations ?"

I don't know of such a chart. The big
islands, or parts of them, will be shown ; but
nothing so small as this, which is, certainly.
no island that I am acquainted with."

And he was right. Surveying in those
times had not been brought to the height to
which it has since been carried. Xow-a-days,
you can buy a chart of the smallest rock
in the ocean — the Roccas, or St. Paul, or
Amsterdam Island, with the soundings about
it and views of it from different quarters. It
was otherwise then, when scores of shoals
and islands were left blank on charts for
ships to plump upon and go to pieces.

''To tell you honestly what I think, sir,"

continued Mr. Jones, "your only chance to*
find out where that island is," pointing to the
sketch, "is to get copies made and let it be
known that you'll give a reward for the
information you require. If you'll send mea
few of them I'll forward them to seafaring
friends of mine, who'll be sure to put them
about in the right directions. The easiest way
will be this. Have the drawings engraved on
wood or copperplate, write down what you
wish to say under the drawing, along with
the reward and your address, so that people
may know how to get at you. You can
send it to taskmasters and harbourmasters,
wherever such folks are, all over the
kingdom, if you choose to go to that
expense, and it'll be a manner of arriving at
what you want to get hold of that'll hardly
fail of success, because it's a thing to make
people talk — it being unusual," with an
apologetic smile — "and then there'll be the
reward."

I thank you much for the suggestion. It
is quite practicable, and I will put it in hand
at once," exclaimed Fortescue, with a faint
flush of eagerness coming into his pale face.

*' I see my way exactly ; I have a friend In
London, who will be able to help me, and
I shall also count upon you." He rose.
"Accept my most grateful thanks for your
information and the idea you have given
me."

He shook the mate's hand and left the
house.

VOL. I.

A LETTER.

It was plain to Fortescue now that the dream
he had dreamed was the Having truth from
God Himself; and if ever he had doubted
the existence of the island he had beheld in
his sleep, he was now as sure, by the mere
force of the logical accuracy of all the rest of
the vision which Mr. Jones had verified, that
the island was an actual spot of land upon
the mighty bosom of the Indian Ocean, as if
its exact situation had been given to him by
someone who had visited it and could name
it. When outside the house he had to stand
a few moments and hold by the gate, so
strong was the bewilderment that came close
to a swooning sensation when he thought of
his dream and how his soul had been inspired
that night to the height of the angels of
Heaven, as he persuaded himself, by the



power given It of surveying the future, not
dimly as the past is beheld, but sharply
and accurately as the life of the present is
seen.

He rallied after a little and walked down
the High Street. He had more than an
hour yet to spare. The printing and engraving
he needed were not to be done at
Wyloe ; but Ramsgate was full of shops,
and he ought to be able to find the tradesman
he wanted in it, which would save the
loss of time the despatching of the work
to London must involve. He was directed
to a printer's ofhce, and, on entering, was
received by the proprietor, who inquired
what he could do for him.

"Can you get this engraved for me .^"
Fortescue asked, producing the sketch.

On wood, sir?"

*' I don't care, providing impressions can
be taken ; but it must be represented exactly
as you see it."

There's an engraver just above here
who'd do it on copper, and glad to get the
job, I daresay. It ought to be easy," said
the printer, turning the paper about. " Justa

outline with a little shuddering. It's the
portrait of an island, isn't it, sir ?"

-Yes."

'well, I'll get that done for you right
enough. How many slips ?"

*' Five hundred. I live at Wyloe. You
know where that is ?"

I ought to," said the printer. '' I traced
a party as owed me five pounds to Wyloe,
but lost reckoning of him beyond it."

'when will you be able to send the slips
to me ?"

The printer answered that if the gentleman
would wait a minute he'd run round to
the engraver.

Whilst he was absent, Fortescue asked a
lad who was in the office for a sheet of paper,
and wrote as follows : —

"The above is a sketch of an island lying
in the Indian Ocean. One Hundred
Guineas will be paid to any person who can
tell the undersigned its exact position on the
chart, and at the same time describe its
appearance as regards colour, vegetation, &c.

Address or call upon
*the Rev. Malcolm Fortescue, Wyloe.""

Soon after he had written this the printer
returned. He told ]mr. Fortescue that he
would be able to send five hundred impressions
'the day after tomorrow."

"That will do." said the clergyman. "I
shall want this printed in good bold type
under the sketch."

The printer opened his eyes at the
reward offered, and, glancing at Fortescue,
immediately concluded that he was an
opulent geographer engaged upon an exhaustive
map of the Indian Ocean. His
manner took a new tone of respect as he
placed samples of paper for size and quality
before his customer, requesting him to
choose. Fortescue did so, selecting a stout
foolscap, and then went away, after exacting
a solemn promise from the printer
that the slips should be sent to his
address at Wyloe ' ' the day after tomorrow."


He was losing no time, and this thought
helped to soothe him somewhat during his
journey home. His dream was true ; the
island had a place in creation ; his loved one
was upon it he felt with deepest conviction

now. He must seek her ! God knows how.
He had no plans as yet, but he must seek
her. If he could get the whereabouts of the
island, so much the better ; if not, he would
hunt the Indian Ocean over for it. This
was to be his mission nor did he intend to
delay it.

He had not had the courage to speak to
Mr. Jones about Agatha, to ask whether her
health had improved down to the hour of the
fire, to question him about her as his love
burned to do. The perception that his
dream was true caused him to dread its
disclosure — to fear anything that might
tend to its revelation. It was not so much
morbidity in his resolution of reticence,
as nervous, jealous anxiety that no smile
of ridicule, however well intended, should
sully by its reflection the pure, still surface
of his faith in the mission which he
believed his Maker designed he should
fulfil.

The Vicar called at his lodgings in the
afternoon, hearing he had returned, and Mr.
Fortescue apologised for not having before
visited him. He was tired when he arrived ;.

his hands had been full all morning. Besides,
he had nothing to say that could interest Mr.
Clayton.

"Nay," said the Vicar, kindly; "but if
you have seen one of the mates of the
Merula, anything he had to say would
interest me, dear friend ; for is not my
brother's life involved, and is not our Agatha
precious to me ?"

The young man could tell me nothing,
because I knew all," said Fortescue, drumming
softly on the table.

Did he confirm your dream ?"

"Yes. Indeed, I seemed to have seen
more of what happened than he, in the
confusion, took notice of. He must have
supposed that some of the people who had
been picked up with him had given the
owners fuller particulars than he had, and
that they had communicated them to me.
He could not otherwise have accounted for
my knowledge."

Did you speak to him of the island you
saw in your dream ?"

I showed him the sketch. No word
escaped me as to my dream. He had

nothing to tell me about the Island — no
island he had sighted in the Indian Ocean
resembled it."

The marked reserve in Fortescue's manner
could not escape Mr. Clayton ; he perceived
he had come to that condition of mind when
reference to his dream, or to any effort he
might be making in respect of it, was painful
and disagreeable to him ; besides, the Vicar
remembered that he had advised his friend
to dismiss the memory of it, or, at all
events, not to suffer it to disturb him, and
he could not, therefore, very consistently
exhibit curiosity nor even avow surprise
at the young mate Jones's verification of
the vision, though secretly he wondered a
good deal.

In due course the slips containing the
engravings of the island and the printed
matter arrived, and Mr. Fortescue proceeded
to distribute them. He had obtained the
names of the principal docks then inexistence,
and before the slips reached him
he had written a number of letters, everyone
addressed to a taskmaster or superintendent,
earnestly soliciting his help ; so that

when the printer's parcel from Ramsgate
arrived he had nothing to do but insert a
number of sips in each letter and post the
whole batch. He also addressed a quantity
to Mr. Jones, to Messrs. Wrotham and
Co., and to a retired shipowner, one Mr.
Theodore Salt, a distant connection on his
mother's side ; a person who for many years
had been one of a firm of ship owners in the
North of England, but who had for sometime
retired from business and settled in
London ; an old, gouty, but good-humoured
bachelor, who lived all day at his club in Pall
Mall, and slept all night at his house in
Kensington. This gentleman Mr. Fortescue
had not seen for some time ; but he had been
thinking of him of late, as people will of
connections who can be useful when they are
wanted, and with a bundle of slips he sent
Mr. Salt a long letter, telling him all about
his engagement, Agatha's bad health, and
the loss of the Merula, and he added that
as a notion was entertained that some of the
people had reached an island, of which he
enclosed a sketch, and as there was a possibility
of Miss Fox being amongst them, he

was most anxious to 'ascertain its whereabouts,
and was offering, as Mr. Salt would
see, a reward for its determination upon a
chart. If Mr. Salt would distribute the slips
through such channels as were likely to reach
sea captains and others who were acquainted
with the Indian Ocean, he would feel deeply
obliged.

Before a week had passed he received
acknowledgments of his communications from
Wrotham and Co., Mr. Jones, and four or
five taskmasters, all promising their immediate
attention to his request, and from
Mr. Salt, who wrote a long, rambling letter,
expressing his sincere sorrow at the lamentable
disaster that had befallen Miss Fox,
earnestly hoping that before long news of
her safety would be received, and winding
up by saying that he had sent the " circulars"
to a number of shipping and seafaring
friends, with a personal request to each,
though he hoped Malcolm would excuse him
for not quite understanding what he meant
about the 'notion" of an island in the Indian
Ocean on which some of the people of the
Merula were supposed to have landed,

because if this were certain, help should
have been at once sent ; and if it were only
suspected, how did Malcolm happen to obtain
a sketch of an island the position of which
ought to be known by the person who
sketched it ?

It did not answer Fortescue's purpose to
reply to this in the manner challenged,
because he perfectly well knew that if Mr.
Salt or anybody else understood that the
island was the presentment of a dream,
sketched by the hand of a somnambulist,
the interest he wished to excite would not
be raised, no trouble would be taken, the
reward would be laughed at as a mad offer,
and nothing would result but the tame
wonder that coincidences excite in a world
full of them. So he answered Mr. Salt's
letter by saying that the island of which he
had sent the outline was, he had been told,
in the Indian Ocean, possibly not remote
from the spot where the Merula had
foundered ; and that being so, it was not
unreasonable to suppose the survivors of
the wreck had taken refuge on it. Hence
he wanted its exact situation, so that an

exploring party might be able to include it,
if a search was made.

Three weeks passed away — three weeks
of such expectation as amounted to anguish
in the young clergyman's mind. He was assure
as that he lived that Agatha had been
cast away upon the island he had seen in his
vision ; that escape from it was impracticable
owing to the boat having gone to pieces in
the surf ; and that, therefore, every day he
delayed seeking her increased the chance
that he would find her dead, if he found herat
all, should he succeed in reaching the
island. But, not knowing its whereabouts,
how could he act ? He had but to look at the
chart of the Indian Ocean he had purchased
to perceive that he might spend months —
nay, years — in sailing about that mighty
expanse of water that runs northwards from
the Equator over twenty-six parallels of
latitude, and whose surge washes the African
coast in the west and the shores of Hindostan
in the east, without discovering the land
that bore the conformation of the island of
his dream.

Three weeks from the date of the posting

of the bulk of the printed "slips," Fortescue
received a letter. It ran thus : —

CoRNHiLL, London,

"such-and-such a date).
Reverend Sir,

I was yesterday at the West India
Docks, and there met an old seaman to
whom somebody had given your circular.
He put It Into my hand, and, pointing to the
sketch, said, ' I knows it.' I am senior clerk
In the employ of Messrs. Wrotham, Skinner
and Farquharson, and was requested by Mr,
Skinner to make all inquiries possible respecting
the locality of the island, the sketch
of which, together with an offer of one
hundred and five pounds, you have caused to
be circulated. I have communicated with
Mr. Skinner, who has desired me to state
that the seaman In question, though retired
from the sea, was for several years in
this firm's service, filling such positions as
guaranteed his respectability. His name Is
William Stone. If you care to see him he
will be pleased to wait upon you. His
address is No. — , West India Dock Road.
But Mr. Skinner desires me to say that you

must judge for yourself of this man's Information,
as, though there is no reason to distrust
his honesty, Mr. Skinner cannot accept the
responsibility of any statement made to you
that might prove misleading.

'' I am, Reverend Sir,

'' Your obedient servant,

F. S. Chandler."
On receipt of this letter, Mr. Fortescue
immediately wrote to William Stone, earnestly
begging him to come to Wyloe without an
hour's unnecessary delay, and he also enclosed
him a draft to cover the expenses of
the journey.

LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE.

FoRTESCUE had left word with his landlady
that if he should be out when William
Stone called, she was to keep him till he
(Fortescue) returned, and put some dinner
or supper before him, as the hour might be.
On the evening of the third day following
the despatch of the letter to Stone, there was
a heavy snowstorm, accompanied by a strong
gale of wind. The curate had been attending
the little village school in discharge of some
duty there, and came ploughing his way
through the snow, and leaning against the
wind that at corners bade fair to sweep him
off his legs. On his return to his lodgings at
about eight o'clock in the evening, he saw
a bright light upon his window, and on
entering the sitting-room, found a ruddy,
blazing fire in the grate, candles on the table,

and an old fellow putting down a cup, out of
which he had swallowed the last mouthful of
coffee.

He rose when the curate entered, and
stood, backing a trifle, after the manner of
sailors, with his knuckle on his forehead.

"William Stone?" inquired Fortescue.

'eyes, sir," answered the man. "I beg
you'll excuse them there liberties," pointing
to the table. '' The lady said it was your
orders — thanking' you kindly for thinking of it
and she set the meal on the table, and so I
fell to."

*' Quite right, and don't let me interrupt
you," said Fortescue. 'you have come a
long journey."

The man said he couldn't eat any more, he
had done well ; and he remained standing
whilst Fortescue removed his coat, crystallised
with snow, and put on a pair of slippers.
Mrs. Goldsmith came in and cleared the
table, whilst the curate, talking lightly to
Stone about the weather, the journey and
the like, was studying his face intently, and
striving to decipher its meaning.

The visitor was a thorough sailor in

appearance, square-shouldered, slightly round-backed,
arms hanging up and down, with the
bunch of thick fingers curled ; dressed in
pilot-cloth, all-round coat, a waistcoat with
brass buttons upon it, a blue striped shirt
with unstarched collar hanging limp over a
large silk handkerchief. He had a face
whose good looks had out-lived years of
stormy weather, and skylarking ashore, and
ocean hardships ; keen, small, grey eyes
which stared at you resolutely from under
iron-grey, bushy brows, lips meeting firmly,
and a set of the head that made you think of
the sheer of a ship's bow, so floating was it
and yet so steady.

Fortescue pointed to a chair near the fire,
placed a jar of tobacco and a pipe at the
man's elbow, and seated himself opposite.
He easily saw that Stone was shy and
would need some thawing before the current
of his words began to move, and with persons
of this type he was naturally at home, most
of the people in the two or three parishes he
had worked in having been as this seaman
was.

Have you been long at sea ?" he in-vol.

I. K

quire, desiring to come to the point slowly,
that his composure might stand the better
chance ; for his fear was — not only in
reference to Stone, but to anybody he should
speak to or write to on the subject — that
something might escape him to indicate that
he was influenced by a dream, and hence his
dread of being agitated and rendered impulsive.


'' I went to sea at the age of twelve, and
knocked off at the age of fifty-five," answered
Stone, smiling.

*' So long ! Then you know the Indian
Ocean well ?"

Not better than other oceans, sir. But
it made itself more felt by me than all the
other waters put together, because, d'ye see,
sir, I was shipwrecked on it, and it was one
o' them sort of shipwrecks that a man don't
forget ; no, not if he were used to being castaway
to the extent of once a year."

Fortescue looked at him eagerly. '* Where
were you shipwrecked ?" he'asked, in a sort
of half-breathless manner, that would have
caused you to think he was [afraid of being
answered.

In the slow way, peculiar to old merchant
seamen, Stone felt in his pocket, pulled out
Fortescue's letter to him, extracted the 'slip"
containing the sketch of the island, smoothed
it with his hand, and placed it on the table.
He then put Fortescue's tobacco jar between
his knees and filled his pipe, whilst his lips
moved as if he were rehearsing to himself
the best way to begin. Lighting his pipe,
he fixed his eyes on Mr. Fortescue and said,
*' We've offered a hundred guineas reward
to any man that shall tell you where that
island's situated," pointing to the sketch with
the stem of his pipe. 'afore making up my
mind to come down here and see you, sir, I
turned to and did a spell of thinking. For I
says to myself, I says, ' Though I knows the
truth, and though the Providence as delivered
me knows that I knows the truth and
couldn't talk of it if it wasn't the truth, yet
how am I, by a bare yarn, to persuade the
gentleman that I'm speaking rightly ; how
am I to make him understand that I'm not a
rascal, willing to cheat him out of whatsoever
amount he's willing to part with, by
pointing to a place in the map and telling

him that his humpbacked island is there —
longitude as it may be read and latitude
likewise ?' "

Fortescue, with a gentle smile, lifted his
hand as if this were a supposition not to be
imagined.

But," continued Stone, looking steadfastly
at the curate, '' I turned to and
reasoned in this way : I says to myself,
Here's a Christian man as has lost some
friend, as he believes, in the Merula, and
he's got a sketch of a island which someone's
been and told him is in the Indian Ocean,
and he wants to find out where it is — the
place not being marked down — because, for
who's to know what passes in a mind that's
full of sorrow ? — he may have got the idea into
his head that his friends have landed upon
that there island. Therefore,' " he went
on, " ' he may believe me or he mayn't.
Here's his good money sent to pay my
journey to this village, and I'll go. I'll
tell him the truth as I know it, so help me
God ; but only on the condition that not one
garden of his reward do I touch till he's found
out that I'm right, and that the island's

where I says it is ; then I'll take his hundred
guineas.' And as this here is to be a compact
between a clergyman of the Church of
England and a plain sailor man, I'll want
notion in writing, and no other witness than
God, who's hearing of me speaking to you
and who'll listen whilst I talk, if so be you're
agreeable to my proposal."

It was impossible to mistake the man's
resolution. Fortescue saw it in the stubborn
hardness of the expression that entered the
sailor's face whilst he was addressing him.
He said in a low tone, '' Be it as you wish,"
and pulling his chair an inch or two closer to
the other's, he leaned forward in the attitude
of a rapt listener.

Stone put his pipe down, clasped his
hands, and spoke thus : " Mr. Fortescue, it'll
be twenty-two years ago. I was able seaman
aboard a snow, and we was bound from
Karachi to the River Thames. We was
in the tail of the monsoon, drawing upon
hurricane time, when one morning, being
somewheres betwixt the Seychelle and
Chagos Islands, a sail was made out to
leonard of us, pretty well fair abeam. We

was carrying a strong wind on the quarter
topmast and lower stunsalls out, weather clew
of the mainsail up, and the Dolly, as our
vessel was named, was walking along tidily.
By'n-bye we found the stranger to be a
torps'l schooner, and it was soon seen she
was hauling' her wind and risen' fast, we
heading' sour-west, say, and she making' a west-southwest
course, or more westerly than that,
maybe. When her hull came up 'bove the
horizon our skipper didn't seem to fancy her.
She was low and long and black, with heavy,
raking spars, and so many cloths in her
mainsail that I reckon her boom when
amidships must have gone out a fathom or
more over her taffrail. Our captain appearing
bothered, brings his eye away from the glass
and sings out to hoist the ensign ; but the
schooner seemed to take no notice, only
'twas plain she was sneaking' up to us hart-fully,
by luffing now and again, as if she
didn't mean it.

'' Whether she was a Frenchman or pirate
we couldn't guess. The first was most likely
in them waters, rigged as she was, and
fancying there might be bigger craft about

our captain, to test her honesty and likewise
finding some hope in the weather that was
taking a dirty look to the southward spite of
the wind blowing into it there, our skipper, I
says, hauls down his stun sails, braces up on
the larboard tack and stands east-south-east,
under the main topgallant-sel, which was as
much as the Dolly could stagger under. No
sooner done than the schooner put her helm
down and follows us. I'll not go into the
particulars of that there chase. It would be
too nautical to interest the likes of you, sir,
and if I mentions it at all, it is to let you see
how I was cast away."

Mr. Fortescue sat listening with barely a
stir. He showed not the least sign of impatience
at the somewhat roundabout way
in which Stone was approaching the point.
Indeed, he drank in every word, as if what
was now being said was not one jot less
important, as expressing the truth that was
what he desired, than the matter which he
knew would come presently.

"Of course," continued the seaman, "a
square-rigged vessel's no match for a
schooner on a wind, if it don't blow too

hard, and though the Dolly was a sharp-lined
craft and as fast a brig as perhaps was ever
afloat, the schooner came crawling' up to
her, looking a point nearer than we could
approach, and promising' to fore reach and
weather upon us afore the sky — at which our
captain was constantly looking — gave us the
chance, it afterwards appeared, we was to
rely on. So we turned to and got the snow
dead afore it, stun sails out on both sides, and
chaps in the tops and cross-trees, wetting of
the sails, for the breeze was failing, and
though the schooner set her square sail and
threw out stun sails likewise, we began to
drop her, but not afore she had let fly her
fo'ksle gun at us, that was a eighteen
pounder, as we calculated, the ball of which
struck us plump in the run, starting a butt or
two or a wood end, and sending us to the
pumps. Soon after this, it came on pretty
near dark as night. The breeze died fair
out, and we forgot all about the schooner
in thinking of t'other enemy that was
muttering in the southwards like guns ina
big fight. We shortened sail, but everything
we showed blew away when it came

thundering down upon us In a whole blaze
of lightning, and such a screeching, that
you would have thought all the cats in the
world was being conveyed over our mast-heads.
We saw no more of the schooner,
and what she was I couldn't tell you — I mean
what nation she belonged to and her business.
We had several days of as furious weather as
ever a man was afloat in and outlived, and
the worst of it was the leak the schooner's
shot had made growed bigger ; otherwise,
the Dolly would have been as staunch and
tight as a corked bottle, which, sir," said the
seaman, picking up his pipe to look at the
bowl of it, and then putting it down again,
'* it might interest you to know, will out-weather
a hurricane that 'ud level the City of
London, ay, including the Tower.

'* Well, it came to this. The weather
broke, but not before us men was so wore
out with pumping and other work that we
couldn't have done another stroke to save
our lives. Besides, the snow was half full of
water and bound to go, so we got the boats
over and left the vessel to sink, and headed
nor-east, knowing that there were islands

that way, and the coast of H India past 'em ;
but our hope was to be picked up by one of
them country walls, as they're termed, that
trade in them latitudes, for the captain hadn't
been able to get an observation, and, therefore,
didn't know where he was by leagues
an' leagues. It was in the evening when we
left the Dolly, and the captain, whose boat I
was in, sung out to the others to steer, I
forget the course, but anyhow so as to give
us a chance of keeping together. However,
we soon lost sight of them, and never afterwards
heard of them — but that's got notion
to do with my story. We was six men in the
boat, and we was a fortnight at sea in her.
Ay, as I live to tell it. Our fresh water
failed us at the end of the first week, and
afterwards we managed in a way I can't fitly
speak about, though my own notion of such
things is that what's not too dreadful for a
sailor to endure can't be too dreadful for a
landsman to hear. One of the men went
mad and jumped overboard, and sunk like a
handled. I woke up one afternoon from
a doze and found the capon dead, leaning
against me as if he was asleep. The rest of

US was SO near to death that the darkness
of him was plain to see if we looked into
each other's eyes ; when, at daybreak on the
fifteenth day, there being a pretty breeze
blown' us along. I stood up as best I could
and saw land right ahead of us. I pointed toit,
and my three mates stared, but we mustn't
believe in the sight till the sun showed it out
plain ; and," exclaimed the man, with sudden
excitement in his manner, and snatching up
the paper and striking the sketch with his
forefinger, " what stood out visible when the
sun rose up to the right of it was this island
here, ay, as true as God's a-listening to me.
Could I forget it, if I was spared to live
another hundred years, — the sight of it
coming upon me when my lips was cracked
with baking and thirst, and when these here
eyes of mine," touching them, "had sunk so
deep that I could have stowed a hen's egg
away in each hollow ! There it stood, with
the outline of it drawer just as it is here, and
two of the men fell a-talking to it as if they'd
fallen mead, as the boat sailed along with the
land over her bows."

Fortescue sat listening with an intensity

that seemed to have transformed him into
marble. He never removed his eyes from
Stone's face ; but at this point his breath
grew shorter and weaker, as though not a
word of what he had now to hear was to be
missed through the sound of his nervous
respiration.

"The land was low, and about height
miles off when we saw it," continued Stone,
'rand it* took us two hours to fetch it ; but we
were to windward, and the surf along the
beach was heavy, and we was obliged to sail
along till we came to this here point,"
touching the sketch, "just round which we
found a bit of a gully with smooth water ;
and then we landed. There were cocoa-nut
trees, and we knocked some of the fruit down
with stones, and the drink and meat in the
shells put some life into us. We hauled the
boat up, after a long rest, and turned her
over, and lay inside of her, not knowing what
wild animals there might be in the island,
and none of us choosing to trust the others
to keep a look-out, all being dead beat, and
one man pretty nigh mad. Well, next morning
we searched for fresh water, and found a

Spring t'other side of this," said he, indicating
one of the elevations in the sketch. "The
water was hot, and there was a slight taste o'
brimstone in it ; but we put some by to cool in
cocoa-nut shells we picked up, and when we
drunk of it, we found it pretty middling, a-nigh
equal to water I've had to drink aboard some
vessels in my time, and the brimstone in it
done none of us any hurt. We were on that
island a week, feeding upon the nuts and a
turtle we caught, and crabs which we eat raw,
for the spring wasn't hot enough for cooking',
and then we made up our minds not to wait
for help — for we didn't know where we was
cast away and whether any vessels came into
this part of the ocean — but to tarn to and
provision our boat with whatever articles of
food we could get, and sail away to the
forwards, and this we did. But the island
wasn't out of sight when we see a ship about
two leagues distant to the southwards, heading
to cross our hawse as it might be, but the
wind was very light from the south-west, and
by chucking' our oars over and pulling as hard
as we could, we managed to close her so as
to be seen. On this she backed her topsail

to let US approach, and when we got aboard
we found she was a vessel with a black crew,
and an English captain, and a Dutch chief
mate, bound from some Madagascar port to
Cambay, but blowed miles out of her course,
by a resolving storm so fierce as to make
the carries aboard her of no use. I told the
skipper our story, and he wrote it down in
the log-book as I talked ; and I then asked
him to inform me what part of the ocean we
had been cast away in, for I says, says I, that
our capt'n had been without an observation
afore the Dolly foundered, and that we'd
been a fortnight knocking about afterwards.
Whereupon — have you got such 1 thing as a
chart of the Indian Ocean?" he exclaimed,
breaking off in what he was saying, and
glancing around him.

Fortescue started like a man awakened
from a dream ; for a moment or two he was
bewildered, as one will sometimes be when
there comes an abrupt stop in a story to
which one listens, utterly engrossed by it.
"Yes," he exclaimed, ''I have a chart, the
latest, of the Indian Ocean," and he drew a
thick long roll of cartridge-like paper from

under the sofa, and spread it upon the
table.

Stone pulled out a pair of spectacles and
pored earnestly over it, groping about, then
casting his glance at the degrees of latitude
.and longitude marked on the edges, and
tracing the big sheet with his forefinger, until
he said, '' See here, sir."

The curate, flushed and trembling, put his
cheek close against the sailor's face.

Do you note this group of islands there ?"
said Stone, pointing to the Chagos Archipelago.

-Yes."

'this here to the south-west of the group
is called Pitt Bank ; ain't it, sir .^"

Fortescue looked away and said, "Yes."
*' Now tarn to and measure about two
hundred and ten nautical miles along a line set
due south-bye west from this here Pitt Bank."
Fortescue took a length of white paper,
computed the distance required by placing
the paper against the edge of the chart
where the parallels were marked, and then,
by means of the nearest of the several compass
indications scattered over the chart,

adjusted the paper to the bearings named —
south-by-west.

'* Now, make a cross where the two
hundred and ten miles end," said Stone.
This was done. "What's the longitude of
it .^" exclaimed the sailor, lifting his body
erect and looking at the clergyman.

*' Seventy degrees, thirteen minutes east,"
replied Fortescue.

'rand the latitude, sire*"

"Ten degrees, forty minutes south."

Stone pulled out a thick carpenter's pencil
from his waistcoat pocket, took the slip
bearing the sketch, and wrote under the
drawing of the island —

Longitude E. seventy degrees, thirteen
minutes; latitude S. ten degrees, forty minutes.

That's where you'll find the place you're
advertising for, sir," said he, pushing the
paper to Fortescue ; and he glanced around
him as though in search of his cap in order
to be off.

A LONG CHAT.

FoRTESCUE remained for some moments
glancing from the sketch to the chart, and
then, perceiving Stone to be looking as if he
meant to go, he said, hurriedly, "You do
not want to leave yet, I hope ; it is only nine
o'clock. I have a thousand things to ask
you. Where do you sleep ?"

"Why, that's just it, sir," answered Stone.
** I came straight from the coach to the
house. I must go and seek a bed, I
allow. I know what these little villages
are. They shut up along with the cocks
and hens."

Fortescue told him to sit down and fill his
pipe, and left the room. After a short
absence he returned, saying that Mrs. Goldsmith
would prepare a box of a place atop
of the house for the sailor. "You'll get

VOL. L L

plenty of air by leaving the window open,"
-sard Fortescue. 'rit won't be too small, I
hope ?"

"If it ain't smaller than a bunk it'll do
first-class," answered Stone, 'thanking you
for your kindness. He's a poor sailor as
can't make a bedroom of six foot long by two
feet wide and three foot tall."

But the arrangement was made more
welcome still by the weather. The gale
and the snow hissed and sheared against
the wooden house and the window, with a
sound as of an escape of steam from twenty or
thirty locomotives close at hand, and, small
as the room was, the penetrating blast kept
the atmosphere cool, spite of the big fire in
the grate. Fortescue put a bottle of spirits
on the table, some glasses and water. He
tasted a drop to keep the seaman in countenance,
but he could not smoke. He was
nervous, agitated, feverishly eager and impatient.
Above all, the awe and fear that
had come to him when Mr. Jones confirmed
his dream, had risen strongly again when
he considered he had viewed with prophetic
sight an island that this seaman had beheld

with his eyes and suffered the anguish of
shipwreck upon.

Can you recollect the appearance of the
island as viewed from the sea ?'' he said,
whilst the sailor smoked stolidly, waiting to
be addressed.

'eyes, sir; and if it was fifty years murder
away from me I should remember it. The
outline there in that drawing is zV to a T.
True as a hair. I always said it was like a
drumeedeery with his ears gone, head half
under water, and rump buried to where his
tail begins. The slopes come down into
coral sand when it faces you easterly, as
this drawing shows it ; but I fancy there
must always be a surf boiling' there ; it boiled
all the time we was on the island, and
I should reckon the breakers beat with
tremendous force in stormy weather. Here,"
said he, taking the sketch and pointing to it,
"are the cocoa-nut trees, a small forest of
'em ; here's open space that you'd think
would be grass from the sea till you get
ashore and find it bush ; short thick stuff,
like what you see in Australia ; there'd be no
landing, I should say, on this side ; there's

always swell and surf enough to smother and
stave a boat. But the gully round this point
here's safe. I see the heartiest as drawer this
put in some birds. He's right. There's
a plenty of birds resembling gulls. We
caught one and tried to eat him, but his flesh
was like leather soaked in brine. Don't know,
I'm sure, how they might taste if they was-cooked."


How big is the island ?"

'well, a man might walk round it in six
or eight hours, providing the road was
clear."

'' Has it a name ?"

*' Why, I daresay it has a name among the
savages belonging to them parts, but there
was ne'er a soul on it to ask a question of,
not even a monkey," said Stone, smiling.

"How long might people cast away there
live upon it ?" asked Fortescue.

"How long? why, it would depend upon
their constitution, sir. There's turtle to
catch, and there's cocoa-nuts, and there's
crabs. If the warm spring we met with has
dried up another may have busted open.
Anyhow, by storing' the fruit we'd get drink

enough to last out of the nuts. It isn't a
climate I care for myself ; dampish at night
and roasting' by day ; but there's trees for
shade and holes enough knocking about —
sort o' caves — proper to keep ye dry and fit
to sleep in, with leaves and the likes of such
things for a mattress. If," he continued,
looking earnestly at Fortescue, "you're under
the impression that some of the people of the
Merula have reached this island, you may
make your mind easy as to their finding
enough to live on and keeping' well an' hearty
till they can manage to get away."
'* But how are they to get away ?"
Why, in their boat, as we did."
** But if their boat should have been
knocked to pieces by the surf?"

•* Ha !" said Stone, "then it'll be a poor
look out. Without tools they could do
notion with such timber as they'd find
a-growin'. They'd have to make a smoke,
and keep all on feeding' the fire, and take
their chance of a vessel passing and seeing
it. But, of course, you're not sure — indeed,
you cant know — that your friends aboard
the Merula are on that island ?" said hein

a tone as if he saw that he had no
right to go on damping the clergyman's
hope until he gathered more of what was
in his mind.

'rit is my intention to seek them there,"
replied Fortescue.

"One's a young lady, so Mr. Chandler
was a-saying," remarked Stone, in a voice
full of respectful sympathy.

"Yes. We were to have been married,
but her health failed and she was advised to
make a voyage to India and back. She
sailed in the Merula with her step-father.
This island is not very far distant from the
spot where the Indiaman was burned ;" he
pulled out a pocket-book and referred to an
entry. " She was destroyed, according to
Mr. Jones, her third mate, speaking roughly,
in eighty degrees south latitude and sixty-three
degrees east longitude. There is consequently
a great probability that some of the
Merula's people have reached this island.
And as the young lady may be among them,
I intend to sail to it."

But," exclaimed Stone, with his eyes
rounded by surprise, 'afore you undertake

such a voyage as that, sir, on the merest
chance, won't you wait a bit, jest to see if no
news come of the other boats ?"

How can news come of the lady and
the people I wish to hear about if they're
locked up in that island ?"

But you don't know that they are locked
up in it, sir."

*' I mean to see."

Stone looked astonished.

Did the person as gave you that sketch,
sir," said he, 'put the notion of the lady
been' on the island into your head ?"

It is probable that the lady is there, and
I mean to seek her," answered the curate,
quietly.

Because," continued Stone, '* if the party
was a seafaring' man, it was his duty to advise
ye against a job that's unlikely to end in the
way you'd hope, if the inspiration of it's no
more than an idea that she may be there.
Besides, why didn't he tell you where the
island lay? If he could draw it so correctly,
surely, Mr. Fortescue, he'd know its bearings."


Fortescue listened patiently ; but his

patience was, in a measure, due to his
thinking of other things.

Let's see," said Stone, '' the Merula was
wrecked in the beginning of September ; this
here is February. That makes six months. If
you started tomorrow it would take you all
three months' fast sailing to fetch the island.
That'll be nine months. Nine months on that
island !" he exclaimed, as if thinking aloud.
** Well, if they're there, there's no reason why
they shouldn't be found well and hearty. Butin
that time wouldn't something have hove insight
to fetch 'em away ; or wouldn't they
have turned to and rigged up any contrivance
and chanced whatever might happen when
they were afloat — even if it was a raft formed
of trunks of trees, cut down, Lord knows
how, and bound together in Kanaka fashion
sooner than remain on the island ? For
reflect, sir, that after a few weeks passes
and no help comes, shipwrecked people's
think they're to be locked up* for good and
all, and sooner than that they'll venture
any perils to get away."

'all this is true," said the curate, 'but it
is an argument we ought not to entertain.

OO

The preciousness of human Hfe is very great.
If there should be ninety-nine chances in the
hundred against my discovering her — those
whom I mean to seek on that island — the
one remaining chance should outweigh all
the others. Constantly may we read and
hear of vessels being despatched to search
for the shipwrecked ; but if the thing were
reasoned as you reason it, no help would be
sent."

The seaman looked abashed. "I'm not
for opposing' a search, God knows," said he,
I have been wrecked myself, felt all the
suffering' of expecting' and hoping'. 'Tis only
the question, as I see it, whether you're
correct in supposing' the lady and the others
to be on the island. If there's e'er a
reason by what ye're heard or by what's
visited your thoughts, to consider that
they're there, then they ought to be sent
for, whether you goes yourself or equips
a expedition."

Fortescue, who had been gazing at him,
always with an expression on his face as if,
now that the sailor had told him where the
island was, he had ceased to give his words

close attention, suddenly smiled with an eager
look at the man.

*' Mr. Stone," said he, "I have made up
my mind to sail to the Indian Ocean ; and
that being settled, give me your advice as
an old seaman."

'* Whatever I can tell you you shall have,,
sir."

'' Would the Government send a steam
vessel to this island if I were to communicate
the loss of the Merula to them and point
out "

'' H 'excuse me for interrupting," said
Stone. " Before you'd get the Government
to h'act we'd have to prove that ]sour friends
had got ashore on this island ; and then by
the time the Government agreed to h'act, if
ever it did, the hour would be near arrived
for the last trumpet to blow as a signal for
the dead to rise. No, sir, the worst must
ha' come to the very worst if ye're to think
of the Government ; and then the thought
of it will only make the very worst worser
still. I know 'em !" And he shook his head
with an air of great disgust.

'* How then," asked Fortescue, " would you

advise me to proceed on my own responsibility
?"

Why, sir," answered Stone, promptly,
'' if ye're bound to seek 'em, I don't see
what else you can do but hire some little
clipper vessel and start right away out."

'what sort of vessel? I am deplorably
ignorant of the sea-life," said the poor fellow,
with as sad a smile as man ever wore.

Why, there are several kinds, sir,"
answered Stone, sobering his voice into
softness out of sympathy with the other's
manner. "There's all sorts of vessels — full-rigged
ships, snows, hermaphrodite brigs,
pollaccas, schooners, cutters, and so on.
What you'd want would be something fast,
something as 'ud go to windward, and something
as 'ud enable ye to ratch fifty mile a
day against a head wind that would keep
shoving a square-rigged craft to leeward till
the breeze wore itself out. There's notion
that I know of as'll do that but a schooner —
and that should be your boat, if so be your
mind's resolved."

What size should she be ?"

Twixt eighty and a hundred tons. Plenty

large enough to sail round the world in and
to scorn the worst of weathers, providing' them
that's in charge knows how to handle her."

'' I shall require a swift vessel."

'' Then inquire after a writer, sir," said the
old seaman, with a light kindling in his eyes.
*' I've sailed in 'em, and there's notion afloat
to touch 'em."

'what is a writer?"

'' Vessels that go to the Western Islands
and the Mediterranean for the season's fruit.
Vessels so moulded, with such lovely lines,
such runs, with such a show of canvas —
vessels so beautifully born, that there's
notion in this wide world to stop 'em
when once they start, if it isn't that they're
drownded through bad management. Ha !"
said he, expelling a great breath, 'depend
upon it, a writer's the vessel you want if you
desire to reach that island in a hurry."

"Would you inquire if such a vessel is to
be had when you return to London ?" said
Fortescue, anxiously, stirred by the unmistakeable
sincerity of the old fellow's
.advocacy of "writers."

"Yes, sir, with pleasure. I'm acquainted

with the owner of three of them, and I'll
speak to him. I reckon you'll find it cheaper
to buy than to hire. You don't know how
long you may be away, and to he'll be so
much a ton per month. Say you're away for
twelve months, and call it fifteen shillings a
ton, at ninety tons ; how much will that
be ?" Fortescue calculated and said eight
hundred and ten pounds. "Well, you'll betaking
no freight out — notion to sell, I suppose
; and that money's be dead loss. But
suppose you could buy the sort of vessel you
want, all found, newly sheathed and the like,
for a thousand pound, or for twelve hundred
if you choose, when you've done with her you
can sell her ; and if she only fetched half
what you gave for her she'd be cheaper to ye
than hiring of her. But there's no reason to
suppose you'd only get half her first cost. A
useful craftily always fetch a good price."

You know the island, you know my
wishes, you know the kind of vessel best
suited to the purpose I have in view," said
Fortescue, leaning forward and fixing his
dark, ardent eyes on the old seaman. " Will
you sail with me ?"

Stone hung his head, scratching the back
of It, looking with a sort of squint into the
fire with the intensity of his thoughts, till the
odd expression gave way to a slight, slow
smile.

Fortescue waited. Finding the sailor did
not speak, he said, " Have you any ties to
keep you on shore ?"

Notion but old age, sir, and that ain't
very binding when a man's got to get a
living," Stone answered. '' My poor old gal
died fifteen years ago. I've a son on the
East Coast, master of a smack. Between
me and any opportunity I could see my way
to, there's notion, notion ; but it's not a
satisfactory reflection for a man who's had to
live hard and work hard for three-and-forty
year upon the ocean, and may have to die
hard at the end ; for at my age one wants a
home, sir, no matter how little it be, and a
wife or a darter to look after one." He
sighed.

How do you get a living now ?"

By odd jobs about the docks. Then the
owners of the Merula have been very good
to me, and they're always finding me something

to do as shipkeeper and the likes of
that."

"Would it not serve your purpose to sail
with me ?" exclaimed Fortescue. "You say
you will not touch my hundred guineas till I
have found the island. The money shall be
placed in Messrs. Wrotham and Co's hands
to be given to you when we return. Your
honesty, that makes you fear I might distrust
you, would be quieted by your joining me.
For you say the island is there," pointing to
the chart, '' and what more triumphant proof
of your sincerity could you offer than taking
me in a vessel to where it is ?"

'* I couldn't take you there, sir. You'll
want a navigator for that. There's no man
Fm afraid of in the matter of rigging and
sailing a vessel, from a ship to an hysteria;
but I don't know notion about sights and
finding out our situation by the moon and
the stars. Never was learnt it, sir."

"Of course we shall require a navigator."

You'll want a properly qualified captain,

• sir, and a ship's company — a crew, consisting

of a mate, and if your vessel's to be ninety

tons, say for a long voyage with the chance

of sickness, five able and two ordinary
seamen, and a chap to cook, and a boy to-wait
on ye aft ; eleven in all, and you, sir,
twelve. Less could do the work. I've been
in writers with captain, mate, and three
men ; but round the Cape to the Equator
and back again's a middling tidy voyage, and
to keep your crew happy and comfortable,
and ready and willing, we'd by far better
have one too many than one too few."

'could you not join me as mate?" said
Fortescue, taking in these particulars quickly
and intelligently.

'' Why, yes, sir, I could, no doubt ; and I
tell you plainly that I would. But first of all,
see here, sir," said the old fellow, putting the
pipe Fortescue had placed before him into
his waistcoat pocket through sheer force of
habit, "what d'ye know about me? How
can you tell I ain't a turnpike sailor, all jaw
and notion else? How are you martin I'm
not too old to go to sea again ? How d'ye
reckon my character's good enough for the
berth you're offering — that I don't drink, that
mv sipfht's uncertain so that I'm no use for
keeping a look-out, that I ain't cumbersome

aloft — In short, that I ain't in all ways what's
called by nautical men a scowbanker ? " He
spoke with an air of relish that became a
visible enjoyment in him as he progressed,
as if he should say, " There's a sort of joy in
these here notions against oneself when one
knows that they're all lies."

Fortescue was beginning to expostulate,
but Stone went on : — '* I must make so bold
as to interrupt you again, sir. Afore you
make me any offer I should wish you to get
my character at full length from the employers
I served for years — I mean Wrotham
and Co. Likewise, I'll ask you to see Mr.
Mackworth, master bigger, of Tapping —
anyone'll tell you where he lives — and
inquire if he thinks me too old to do my
duty as a sailor man aboard any craft you
may choose to hire. If you're satisfied, then
it'll be time enough to ask me to take a berth
along with you and to agree about terms.
I'm willing to go, and if that there island
hasn't been sunk by a earthquake since I
was cast away upon it, I'll undertake to show
the capon where it is, if he'll give me his
reckonings ; but I shall want you to be more
VOL. I. M

satisfied about me than it's possible for you
now to be, afore anything murder's done either
in the way of my seeing about the hiring of a
writer for ye, or accepting of a berth."

He spoke with the energy of a man whose
mind is made up, and the same instinct that
caused him to sHp the pipe into his waistcoat
induced him to feel for it there and extract it,
then fill and light it. Fortescue glanced at
the clock, it was half-patten ; but time to
him signified nothing only as far as it meant
delay in the execution of his scheme. The
seething sound of the sleet-laden gale made
it the fittest night in the world to talk to
an old sailor in, and after requesting Mrs.
Goldsmith not to sit up for him, the young
clergyman resumed his chair, and there the
two of them sat talking till one o'clock in the
morning.

Then Fortescue rose from his chair and
led the sailor to the little room Mrs. Goldsmith
had prepared, and bade him goodnight,
but with such a sad, tender, grateful
clinging to the warm, toil-wrinkled hand
he held, that when he dropped it the
seaman's eyes were moist and his voice was

as husky as the hinges of the door he
closed, as he said, '' God bless you, sir ;
you'll find her yet. Heaven's too good and
loving' to keep the likes of you long sorrowful."
Which cheery words, as fresh from
the old sailor's heart as the sparkling green
is that's brought up sweet and clear from
over a ship's side, Mr. Fortescue carried to
his pillow with him, and lay for a long while
thinking over to the wild accompaniment of
the hoarse February gale, and the slashing
of the snow, and the wet upon the window.

THE GOLDEN HOPE.

The next morning William Stone returned
to London, bearing with him a letter to
Wrotham and Co., and of the seaman's visit
nobody in Wyloe heard a word, Mrs. Goldsmith
having supposed that he was a survivor
from the ship in which Miss Fox had sailed,
and that, therefore, his calling upon Mr.
Fortescue was a matter too solemn to be
passed round to the gossips.

A couple of days after Stone had returned
to London, Fortescue received a very
courteous letter from Mr. Skinner, who was
apparently the active partner of the firm.
He said he had seen Stone, who had communicated
to him Mr. Fortescue's intention
to sail to a certain island in the Indian
Ocean, on which he (Mr. Fortescue)
imagined, or perhaps hoped, he should find

those among the passengers whose safety
was concerned for. It was not, Mr.
Skinner said, for him to comment upon this
determination. He was sure Mr. Fortescue
had friends who would wisely counsel him.
His duty, that was a pleasure, lay in answering
Mr. Fortescue's letter with respect to
Stone, and to the purchase or hire of a vessel
fit for the undertaking proposed. He gave
Stone a very high character, and said that
he would make an excellent mate ; and
though too old to serve in the forecastle, his
knowledge of sea work, and his experience of
sailors, could not fail to render him valuable
as an overseer of forecastle duties. The
man's advice to select a writer was sound.
Whatever the issue of the voyage might
prove, one thing was certain, the island
could not be reached too swiftly nor the
return home made too quickly. The
writers were the fastest vessels afloat ;
superior to the famous Baltimore clippers,
and as steam was out of the question, as
being difficult to get and extremely costly,
and slower than sail, having regard to the
delays for coal, Mr. Fortescue could not do

better than follow Stone's advice. Already
the man had seen the owner of a writer in
which a sailor he knew made a voyage, and
the qualities of the vessel Stone had thus
been able to ascertain. This owner was in
partnership with a person who had raised a
dispute over the vessels belonging to them ;
the upshot of which was, two had been
placed in the market. As he understood
that Mr. Fortescue desired to lose no
time, he had ventured to make an appointment
for Mr. Quilter (the owner) to meet
him at Wrotham and Co's office, Cornwall,
on Friday, at half-past two, when the
matter could be discussed and both schooners
inspected.

Still giving no hint of his purpose to Mr,
Clayton, Fortescue arranged with him that
he should spend a couple of days in London ;
but on his arrival there, instead of waiting till
half-past two to see Mr. Quilter, he proceeded
immediately after breakfast to Kensington, to
the house of Mr. Salt, who very cordially
received him. To this gentleman Fortescue
related the object of his visit to London ;
concealing all about his dream, and making

out that he desired the voyage as much for
his health as for the hope that he might find
Agatha on the island that was his destination.
Mr. Salt understood him when he talked of
his health, for Fortescue looked extremely
pale and worn ; but he was quite at a loss
when he gathered that the voyage was to be
made also with the idea that, because the
island lay near the spot where the Merula
had been burnt, there was a chance of a party
of survivors, with Miss Fox amongst them,
having reached it. It was a supposition
which could only cause the practical old
gentleman to stare, in spite of Fortescue's
apparently reasonable argument that, since
he needed a long voyage for his health's
sake, why should he not steer into the
ocean where the Merula was lost, and
seek among the nearest of the islands therefor
news or relics of her whom he was
mourning for .^ His trembling lips, his
pale, sad face, his sorrowful eyes, preserved
him from the argument he had dreaded.
Mr. Salt perceived that the young man was
resolved, that it was to be a love-cruise
which, let it end as it might as regarded

the clergyman's hopes, could not injure him
as fretting at home would, and waiting with
a heart fast sickening for the good news
that might never come. So, after a long
talk that lasted through the morning and
that terminated in confirming Mr. Salt's
belief that Fortescue was to be best served
by being left to his own promptings, the old
gentleman went into the city with the young
fellow to see, as Fortescue had asked him,
that he was fairly treated in the hiring or
purchase of the schooner.

Mr. Quilter was waiting along with William
Stone. In a few minutes Mr. Skinner entered
the room and Mr. Salt shook hands with him
as with an old acquaintance. Some well-meant
commonplace remarks touching the
loss of the Merula were uttered, and then
said Mr. Salt :—

'what's the size of the schooner, Mr.
Quilter ?"

'the one that Mr. Stone here has in his
eye for the gentleman is ninety-ton," answered
the other, a rough, gruff, shaggy-browed, yet
kindly-faced man.

"How much per month for hire T'

Ninety pounds. To the Indian Ocean
and back — shall we call it ten months ?"

*' Seven," said Mr. Quilter, " if it's to be a
matter of hurry. Here's a schooner as can
reel out her twelve knots, her highest speed,
I allow ; but give her the right wind and
she'll do it."

Better say twelve months, gentlemen,"
said Stone, modestly.

'' So I think," exclaimed Mr. Skinner, who
was taking furtive peeps at Fortescue as if to
satisfy himself that the clergyman was in his
right mind.

'' Twelve, then," said Mr. Salt. " Twelve
times ninety are a thousand and eighty.
What are you asking for her, Mr. Quilter ?''

Eleven hundred pounds as she stands,
fit to sail tomorrow morning, with plenty of
provisions in her."

Not a penny less, of course ?" said Mr.
Salt.

Not a garden. Why, if it wasn't for a
family quarrel, as the saying is, she'd be at
sea earning a handsome income. As it is, I
don't love parting with her. There was
nothing ever built more beautiful."

Where does she lie ?"

In the East India Docks."

"Then let's view her whilst there's daylight
to see her by." And he and Fortescue,
Quilter and William Stone, bundled into
a hackney carriage of that period which
carried them to the Minores, whence they
proceeded to Blackwell by the railway. They
walked swiftly to where the schooner lay. To
Fortescue the scene of the docks was so novel
and confounding that he moved with the air
of a bewildered man. Amid the still life and
rural simplicity of Wyloe, his thoughts of his
search for Agatha upon the far off Equator
took the fancifulness a landsman gets, whose
knowledge of ships is mere romance, coloured
by recollection of such fabrics as the Merula.
He could not have sharpened his meditated
mission into the actuality a sailor would have
made it. His thoughts were of the island, of
the vision he had beheld of his adored girl in
impassioned posture appealing to him across
the sea ; and if ever the leagues of ocean he
had to measure occurred to him, they were
present but as a dim phantom of moonlight,
and sunlight, and blue surface, faint and unreal

as knowledge of the great realities of nature
gained from books and pictures, always is.

But when he looked around him in the
docks he seemed to witness his Heaven-inspired
errand in its first making. There
was the grim prose of the realities of the sea
in the two or three scores of fabrics which
crowded the wharves or lay athwart the
docks, in their low or tall sides, their spars
mounting into the February gloom of the
river's dingy atmosphere, the scars upon
them of recent conflict, or else the smartness
of fresh paint in those about to sail ;
here and there a royal-yard so high that a
man on it looked no bigger than a crow ;
whilst the stagnant air was full of the commotion
of clanking pals, of sailors singing, of
dock labourers shouting, of sheaves grinding
to the weight of ascending or descending
bales, cases, casks and tubs of cargo.

*' There she is, gentlemen," said Mr.
Quilter, pausing at the south-west corner
of the Export Dock. '* Stand here — you
have her clear of this ship's bowsprit.
A little this way, Mr. Fortescue. That's
her, past yonder figure-head, which would

show her better if it were a fathom more
to the right."

She lay bow on to them, her jibbooms
rigged in, her square-yards braced up ;
she showed about a foot of copper-sheathing
upon her black side, along which ran a gilt
streak ; her figure-head was a small, gilt-winged,
female figure, with a trumpet in its
mouth, and face inclining skywards in a pose
of triumph. The cutwater gave her a knife-like
sharpness about the bows ; but the yacht-like
swell of side rounding aft, the slight, yet
dominant sheer forward, with the faint rakishness
of the lower spars, the topmasts stayed
just a thought forward to give boil masts the
knowing air you see in the pricked-up ears of
a racehorse, conveyed even to the ignorant
gaze of Fortescue such a presentment of
speed, seaworthiness and noble, weatherly
and surge-defying qualities, as persuaded him
that all England could offer nothing better
for the achievement of his singular purpose.

Stone, sidling up to him quietly and
respectfully, said: — ''Do you like her, sir?"

'she seems a beautiful vessel," answered
Fortescue.

'*Ah, sir, she is; but it ain't that only.
I've heard all about her from a man who
sailed to the Western Islands in her. She
needs but the handling of a person used to
schooners to prove the fastest, driest, most
comfortable boat ever launched. She'll be
round the Cape with her jibboom heading
due north-north-west for the island, when the
biggest full-rigged ship that ever entered
these docks, starting at the same time, will be
mousing about, all adrift anyhow, among the
calms on the Line."

'gentlemen," here interrupted Mr. Outer,
'we'll go aboard. I see Captain Weeks
Hiram Weeks — her skipper last voyage.
I asked him to meet us here. If you should
settle on this vessel, gentlemen," looking
from Mr. Salt to Mr. Fortescue, "you'll not
do better than Hiram Weeks as master.
He's not been to sea so long as Mr.
Stone here, but there's no better sailor or
navigator, and I can recommend him withall
my heart, providing, of course, you are
not suited."

"Mr. Quilter's right, gentlemen," said
Stone. " Hiram Weeks is a real seaman, and

I allow he knows the schooner as if they'd
been born together and had come into the
world twins."

There were some planks between the
wharf and the schooner's rail, and as the
party of four stepped on board, they were
received by a tall man, who saluted their
arrival by a peculiarly nautical flourish of his
hand to his fur cap. His years probably
did not exceed forty, but so undeterminable
was the age indicated by his gaunt, yellow,
leathern cheeks, his large, red-streaked,
prominent eyes, which appeared to be in
the act of starting from their sockets, the
coarse, mat-like mass of reddish hair that
lay under his chin and on his throat, that no
conjecture as to the date of his birth was
likely to hit the truth. He was dressed
in a rusty pilot-cloth coat, serge trousers
(probably concealing a liberal engagement of
stout drawers and thick stockings), whereof
the ends were screwed into a pair of half
Wellington boots, and his neck was swathed
in a huge red 'comforter." His name suggested
a Yankee origin, and, indeed, he had
all the appearance of a tanned and hardened

Down Easter. Yet he proved himself what
he was — an Englishman — with a touch of
Kent or Essex in his aspirates and g's.
indeed, his language was very much like
Mr. Stone's.

'' Was almost giving of you up, Mr.
quieter. Sarvant, gentlemen. This is the
schooner, and a better's not to be had for
money." He made a sweeping movement
along the deck with a hand that caused you
to think of a lobster with the rheumatic
warping of the long, yellow, lean fingers.

"We'll overhaul her at once," said Mr.
Salt. " Darkness soon drops down in the
Isle of Dogs." Mr. Fortescue followed the
-others, feeling a mere child in his ignorance.
The terms employed were to him what Fiji
Islanders' talk would be. Captain Weeks
and Mr. Quilter chattered volubly, Mr. Salt
grunted rather than expressed approval as he
peered around, whilst William Stone walked
in the wake of the others, watching with a
Kindly, sympathetic expression in his gaze for
any signs of satisfaction in Fortescue. But
even had the young clergyman been as well
acquainted with nautical matters as Stone, he

could not have fixed his attention upon the
points of build and equipment which Quilter
and Weeks indicated. The sky-searching
spars, to whose heights he lifted his eyes, were
but as magic wands to transport him intc^
the solitude of the Indian Ocean, and it was
with a yearning of the heart that came near
to the pain of breaking, that he thought of
his sweetheart's wild appeal to him in his
dream, of the bitter long months passing-over
her upon that island, of the agony that
would be his if, the island of his vision being
shown him in substance, he should find no
trace of his adored upon it.

These were the thoughts which filled his
mind as he accompanied the others on their
tour of inspection. Yet an exclamation from
Mr. Salt or a brief word from Stone would
sometimes cause him to break away from the
mood the sight of the schooner had put into
him, to look and think of some admirable
feature pointed out.

** Captain," said Mr. Salt, "what height of
side will you show in ballast ?"

** Why, about six foot, sir."

** How close will she lie ?''

'' I'll engage to keep her a rap full at four
and a half points."

'* Steam ain't going to do ver' much
more," said Quilter. " Back them four and
a half points with six knots an hour, and a
wake following her in a line as fair with
jibbooms as if the wind was dead aft, and
what's to become of your 

glad to see a tiller," observed Mr.
Salt. " Spokes are all very well, but since
chain has taken the place of rope and hide I
haven't much opinion of wheels."

Right for you, sir," exclaimed Quilter,
with nods enough of the head to prove that
he, at all events, was no progressions in
naval affairs.

What's the schooner's age .^"

Five year," was the answer.

'' There's brass work enough," said Mr.
Salt, standing right aft and looking along the
schooner; "brass belaying pins, brass tiller-head,
brass wire gratings over skylight, brass
binnacle — why, Mr. Quilter, she must have
been born a pleasure craft ; but I hope you
don't charge for these gewgaws. I'm for
plainness myself ; nothing like simplicity at

VOL. L N

sea, but it must be sound and thoroughly
salted. The beauty I look for is workmanship
where you can't see it — under water, I
mean."

'well, Mr. Salt," said Quilter, to whom
the name of the old owner was evidently
familiar, " you have some knowledge of ships,
sir, you don't want a vessel's builder aboard
to show you what's bad and what's good in
her. If this craft don't speak for herself
there's no eloquence in timber and fastenings."


Mr. Salt, looking not ill-pleased, went to
the rail and peered over. '' Channels, I see ;
well, so much the better. Don't want any
up and down plates to draw in a squall as if
they were soft wire, eh. Captain Weeks ?
Bright masts," looking aloft ; 'nothing

like the natural wood ; d paint, say

I. Good spread of foreyard there — sixty
feet?"

Fifty-six, sir," said Captain Weeks.

Small galley, but big enough for a couple
of saucepans. Lashed to ring bolts, I see ;
well, I hope the lashings aren't five years old.
Two boats, one stowed in the other ; as many

as'll be wanted. French grey for the colour
of your inside bulwark ; square stern, d'ye
notice, Malcolm ? What's the length of your
cabin ?"

Fifteen feet from the transom, sir,"
answered Captain Weeks, smuggling a bit
of tobacco into his mouth.

Let's have a look at it," said Mr. Salt,
and down they all went.

It was a snug little cabin, and high enough
for a man to stand up in. A table was fixed
in the centre, and round it were lockers which
served as seats. There were four bunks, two
of a side, mere holes for sleeping in, into
which one could vault from the lockers and
disappear. Close against the bulkhead was a
stove, and on the starboard side, the state
cabin, a small but cosy box of a place. The
companion-steps came rounding down past it,
and the foot of them bordered upon another
cabin, much smaller than the one opposite.
Everything was rough and plain, but with a
sturdy, hearty look about it that a sailor would
eagerly appreciate in a vessel he meant to
sail in.

'' I see no fault to find here," said Mr.

Salt ; " the deck would be more comfortable
perhaps, for a decent carpet."

"That's easily remedied," exclaimed Mr.
Outer.

"What sort of quarters have the men
forward?" inquired Mr. Salt. "It's getting'
too dark to rummage about in the forecastle."

They're sound, dry and comfortable, sir,"
replied Captain Weeks; "four bunks, and
room for three hammocks, or four at a
pinch."

They went on deck, and Mr. Salt called
Fortescue aft to the tiller, and there they
stood alone, looking at the schooner, whilst
the others talked in the gangway.

She's certainly a beautiful little vessel,"
said the old fellow ; 'one of the handsomest
of her class, and staunch and sound. No
doubt of that. Should you persist in your
resolution

Don't put it in that way," said Fortescue,
gently. " My resolution is formed."

Well, what I meant to say," continued
Mr. Salt, a little abashed by the singularly
determined tone which the curate's gentle
voice distinctly accentuated, " was, if you are

pound to the Indian Ocean you can't do
better than have this schooner. And you
had better buy her outright. The cost of
hiring, even allowing that you make splendid
runs out and home, will, at the rate of a pound
a ton a month, come to pretty nearly the
price asked for her."

I quite understand. Will you negotiate
the purchase for me ?"

"With pleasure. Indeed, if you like I'll
go further. I'll see that she is properly
victualled and equipped, make sure that
her crew are the right kind of men for
you, settle about their wages, and. in fact,
leave you nothing to do but to step onboard
when all's ready, and sail away.
That'll enable you to stick to your parish-work
down to the last moment."

Fortescue gave him many thanks, shaking
his hand heartily. " You'll be doing me the
greatest service imaginable," said he, " for I
have not the least idea how to go to work."

*T will haggle with Outer a bit"' exclaimed
Mr. Salt. " Whatever sum he may concede
off his present price will go towards wages.
I'll put yonder leather-jawed man therethrough

his facings ; and If I think him-suitable,
he'll do for skipper, because it'll be
well for you who want to slash through it
round the Cape, that the master of the
vessel should know her qualities and how
to get all she'll yield out of her. You'll
want a mate "

'' That's settled. William Stone will be
mate. He knows where the island is, and
he is an old and experienced sailor."

*' All right," said Mr. Salt. "It's cold in
these docks ; let's get away home. You'll
sleep at my house to-night, and we can talk
over everything material this evening."

Fortescue consented. They joined the
others, and the five of them stepped on to
the wharf.

** Gentlemen," said Mr. Quilter, pausing,
'tother schooner we're offering Is round
in the basin — five minutes distant. Shall
we view her whilst there's light left ?''

Is she a better ship than this ?" Inquired
Mr. Salt.

She's a ton smaller, and four years older.
I'm asking a hundred and fifty pounds less
for her."

Mr. Fortescue," said Stone, touching his
cap, '' I beg your pardon, sir. I know both
craft. This here's the one to serve your end,
and will prove the cheapest, by a long chalk,
after the job's over."

Mr. Salt looked attentively at the old
seaman, and exclaimed, '' I am of Stone's
opinion."

"You may believe what he says of the
vessels, sir, down to the heels of his statements,"
observed Captain Weeks. "I know
them both, too. That's the ship for Mr.
Fortescue," pointing to the schooner.

'well, that'll be for Mr. Quilter and me
to settle," said Mr. Salt. " By the way,
what's the name ?"

'the Golden Hope," replied Captain
Weeks.

ON THE EVE.

"The Golden Hope!" Here was a name
only, yet the bare speaking of it violently
affected Mr. Fortescue. It seemed to thrill
through him with a prophetic meaning that
was in perfect concurrence with the resolution
inspired by his dream. '' The Golden
Hope !" Was his lighting upon a vessel
thus named mere chance ? Not more so,
he thought, than his dream was chance,
than the amazing confirmation of it was
chance, than his discovery of Agatha, if it
pleased God to lead him in safety to the
island, would be chance. Hope ! If hope
were not golden to him then, by what standard
would it be applicable ? And now, not
only in 'the Golden Hope," but with golden
hope in his heart, with golden hope in the
sunlight over him, with golden hope shining

in the blackest night or gleaming sweetly in
even' southern, and then in ever' eastern, star
that should rise sparkling over the schooner's
bows, would he be sailing in search of
Agatha, directed by a dream he had long
since accepted as a revelation from God
Himself.

He passed the night at Mr. Salt's house,
and sat late with the hearty old gentleman,
making all necessary arrangements for the
purchase of the schooner, and asking many
questions in reference to the vessel and the
routine of shipboard. He also talked freely of
his expectation of finding Agatha and others
on the island, though the conviction he
entertained on this matter profoundly puzzled
Mr. Salt, to whom he did not breathe a
syllable concerning his dream, and who,
therefore, not being able to discover any
intelligible motive, beyond the curate's health.
for the vovaee, viewed his notion that Miss
Fox was positively to be found upon an
island in the Indian Ocean as a delusion,
harmless indeed, but nevertheless a delusion :
originating in the shock he had received on
hearing of the loss of the \'erulam.

Early next morning Fortescue bade farewell
to his host, and went into the city,
where he instructed a firm of stockbrokers
to sell certain securities he held, and to place
the sums realised to his credit at the bank he
dealt with ; which done, and there being
nothing else to detain him in London, he
returned to Wyloe, reaching the little village
late at night.

No letters had arrived relating to the
'slips" about the island, which he had disseminated,
so that he thought of William
Stone as perhaps the only one among
hundreds of seafaring persons capable of
giving him the particulars he desired. Wherefore
the circumstances of the "slip" coming
into the hands of this man struck him with
amazement at the manifestation (that was
visible with awing and subduing plainness) of
the presence of his Maker, strengthening and
directing every step he took.

Ere he left London, he had made up
his mind to tell Mr. Clayton that his
plans were now arranged ; but when the
morning came, and he quitted his lodgings
to call upon the Vicar, the struggle

in his breast was a bitter one. The
thought of Agatha towered above all other
considerations, as the figure of the Madonna
in Roman Catholic pictures stands or floats
prominently above those who are represented
as worshipping her. Yet he had come to
love the little village ; there was not an
inhabitant who was not his friend ; the little
toddling infant had its smiles for the curate ;
the old had a blessing for him ; the poor
knew who would help them when distress
grew sharp in winter, or by summer failures.
Between him and the Vicar a warm affection
subsisted. And then, the associations I The
graves he had wept beside in sympathy with
the father, the brother, the son ; the little
rooms in which he had sat reading to the
bed-ridden, the aged, the dying; the children
of the village school ; above all, the quiet
sands he had paced with Agatha, the moonlit
calms, the humming of the surf, the
peculiar cries of the gulls re-echoing from
the cliffs!

Maybe it was the memory of Agatha that
consecrated all things in that little place,
yet there was the love also, as well as the

consecration, and there was a sob or two in
his breath whilst he glanced about him ashe
walked, forcing smiles of recognition, and
struggling with his voice as he called the
morning greeting to one and another.

He found Mrs. Clayton with her husband.
He did not mind this ; indeed, her presence
might help him, for her lighter, sympathetic
character would enforce the restraint he
might find it difficult to practice were he
left alone with his friend. One glance at
him persuaded both husband and wife that
the object of his visit was to prove unusual,
if not startling. The lady's face took an
expression of curiosity, her husband one of
anxiety. Yet for some short while they
conversed with a sort of calmness about the
coolness of the weather, the journey from
London, London itself

Then said Mr. Clayton, '' I hope no
disappointment has attended your visit ; I
mean, you will have had a motive for going to
London, of course, and I trust the journey
may have satisfied your reason for undertaking
it, Fortescue."

** Quite. I have seen my relative — distant

indeed — Mr. Salt. He has kindly consented
to arrange everything for me, so
that I can keep to my work here to the
last moment."

The Vicar, leaning forward with a quick
gesture, said, " What do you mean, Fortescue
?''

I am leaving you."

'leaving us? Why?"

"To seek Agatha."

Mrs. Clayton exclaimed, excitedly, " Do
you know where she is? Have you heard
of her?"

Fortescue pulled out the slip, bearing the
sketch of the island and the latitude and
longitude of it written in William Stone's
rough hand, and extending it to Mrs. Clayton
said, " She is there." Mrs. Clayton
looked at it, and gave it to her husband,
who, after peering through his glasses, said,
This is the island you dreamt about
Fortescue."

"Yes; I know where it is now. It
is a real island. Do you see those figures
under it ? They were written by a man
who was wrecked on the island, and who

IS going out with me to the Indian
Ocean."

The Indian Ocean ! Why, if the Vicar
and his wife had been conveyed to it in
Arabian Nights-like fashion, they could not
have looked more astounded.

*' My dear creature !" cried the Vicar.
** Indian Ocean ! going out with a man
who — gracious mercy ! What is your purpose
t

To seek Agatha !"

At this Mrs. Clayton endeavoured to catch
her husband's eye, that she might ask him, by
her expression, whether she was not right in
thinking Fortescue "touched." But the
Vicar's gaze was on the curate. Surprise
was giving way to sorrow, and there was no
more consternation nor stuttering.

Fortescue," said he, tenderly, " I beg as a
friend that you will forgive me putting a few
questions to you." The clergyman bowed his
head. *' You tell me that the island of your
dream is real, and that you know this to be soon
the testimony of a man who was wrecked
on it ?"

Fortescue answered, *eyes," listlessly. He

had hoped in his soul that the vicar would
not discuss the subject.

"I see," continued Mr. Clayton, "under
the sketch of the island, you older a reward of
one hundred guineas to anyone who will tell
you where the place is. Good and true
Christian as you are, dear friend, generous
in interpretation of human motive, yet
surely, surely you cannot doubt that so
tempting an offer is more than likely to determine
a man to obtain it bv telling a lie."

o

He accompanies me to the island and
declines to receive a farthing of the amount
until we have verified the spot I dreamed
of."

Mrs. Clayton said, '* That looks honest,
certainly ; but how is it possible, Mr. Fortescue,
that this island can correspond
with yours ? How is it conceivable that
you can dream of a real island you have
never seen ? "

I cannot explain, Mrs. Clayton. But for
all that, the island is there."

But it is a dream from beginning to end'*
exclaimed the Vicar, with a hint of impatience
in his slow, asthmatic speech ; 'corroborated

in parts It is true and, therefore, wonderful asa
coincidence, as a metaphysical coincidence,
if you please, but not to be trusted, surely, to
the full extent of supposing that Agatha is
upon that island, and that you must sail all
the way from here to the Indian Ocean to see
if she Is there."

''Mr. Clayton, I ask your pardon; I have
called, not to argue, but to tell you I shall be
leaving Wyloe shortly — very shortly. I shall
part from you all, from this little village, from
its blameless Inhabitants, with sorrow, but
God has told me where Agatha is, and has
suffered me to witness her appeal to me to
seek her. Let those laugh at me who will,*
he exclaimed, with a flushed face and shining
eyes. "Our Divine Father has many ways
of working out His ends ; and shall I
doubt any one of them, because I feel to
be governed by an impulse — made rational
to my own senses by extraordinary proof —
without being able to explain the mystery
of It, and the Irresistible power of It .'^ "

Mrs. Clayton, confounding his hot cheeks
and luminous eyes with a fevered and distempered
brain, diverted the discussion that

was threatened, by asking the curate what
plans he had formed for saiHng to the Indian
Ocean. Whereupon he quietly related all he
had done and arranged for, and how in a few
days he expected a letter from ]mr. Salt
telling him that the Golden Hope was ready
and where he should join her.

Suppose," said Mrs. Clayton, " that
shortly after you have sailed, news should
reach us of Agatha's and mv brother-in-law's
safety. How hard it would be I You would
reach the island and find nobody upon it,
unless natives, and you will not know that
Agatha is safe and well until you return,
which, you have told us, may not be for a
whole year."

You should consider that," said the vicar,
very gravely.

"There is nothing I have not considered,"
replied Fortescue. "Certainty — the certainty
that comes from Heaven — requires no consideration.
If my project were based on
chance only I should not go."

The old Vicar sighed. "Well, well!" he
exclaimed, and though the three of them
sat talking for another half-hour, there were
VOL. I. u

no more arguments on the subject of Fortescue's
expedition.

Mr. Salt did not keep the young curate
long waiting. In less than eight days,
dating from the inspection of the Golden
Hope, the old gentleman had purchased her
for one thousand and fifty pounds. Captain
Weeks had consented to take charge of
her for eight pounds a month, and William
Stone had signed articles as chief mate for
four pounds ten shillings a month. For
her crew, the number of men proposed by
Stone to Mr. Fortescue had been shipped,
namely, five able and two ordinary seamen,
a cook, and a boy to wait upon the cabin.
Her provisioning and other obligations, in
addition to the cost of her purchase, wages
and the like, came to a large sum ; but
Fortescue turned impatiently from the
business - like reminder of this, when it
occurred in Mr. Salt's letter, and forthwith
transmitted to that gentleman a draft for
the full amount, which included a month's
advance to the crew and one hundred
guineas to be held by Wrotham, Skinner
and Co. on behalf of William Stone, to

he presented to him when it could be
shown by the voyage that the approximate
bearings the sailor had given to the island
were right.

Meanwhile, in order that nothing should
delay the start to be made from Gravesend,
so far as Fortescue was concerned, he had
ordered for himself an outfit of clothes and
conveniences, such as his judgment told him
he would require in the various climates he
would pass through on his way from England,
in March, to the Indian Equator, which he
hoped to have closely approached by the
beginning of June. He likewise provided
himself with a box of female wearing apparel
and a chest of medicine. And these and all
other arrangements being completed, there
arrived his last evening at Wyloe. It had
been led up to by much that was sorrowful.
At his own request the news was circulated,
only the day previously that he was to
leave the parish, certainly for a year, on
a voyage from which he might never
return, and the farewells taken, the little
simple gifts presented, hastily purchased by
some to whom a few shillings represented

a week's livelihood, affected him deeply, as
anyone will imagine. Yet the Clayton
remarked that his mood was not one of
unmixed melancholy. On the contrary, they
often recalled afterwards the triumphant
expression that would come, more like a
light than a smile, into his face, when his
dark eyes had the far-away look the gaze will
take if thought and passion and feeling are
far-away too. They would speak of the
wonderful tone of conviction that furnished
thrilling accentuation to any reference he
made to the voyage he was about to start on ;
as if, instead of being swayed by a dream, he
was acting upon a veracious report brought
home by some ship, that Agatha Fox was
upon the island waiting for an expedition to
rescue her from a situation that would be
hopeless, if no other chance of her deliverance
was provided than a passing vessel.
The Vicar was convinced that nothing but
superstition, acting upon weak nerves and a
weeping heart that turned eagerly towards
any phantasm of light that might show upon
the darkness, was urging Fortescue ; and he
also considered the confirmation of his dream,.

SO far as confirmation went, a coincidence,
startling certainly, yet not more wonderful
than other coincidences which had ended in
nothing particular. But nevertheless, he admitted
afterwards that he had been awed by
the positive views Fortescue entertained, and
the amazing faith he had in the fidelity of his
vision. It was, indeed, as if there were more
behind it all than the young clergyman chose
to tell — if in truth it was not madness, which
the vicar declined to admit ; but whatever
were the theories that puzzled and troubled
the old man's mind, they did not hinder him
from putting up such a prayer for Fortescue 's
safety and for the accomplishment of his
beautiful, touching, noble and devoted undertaking,
as drew, by the eloquence and pathos
his sincerity gave to his words, many tears
from Mrs. Clayton and her daughter, and
sobs from Fortescue that choked his speech
as he took their hands in turn and quitted
the quaint, old house he would not see again
for many a long month, if he was suffered to
come safely out of his adventure.

AT SEA.

It was five o'clock in the afternoon, In the
month of March, and a sulky dusk coming
over the sky out of the eastward, in the teeth
of a brisk westerly breeze that was sufficiently
mild in temperature, though you felt if it
should veer but a point or two southerly,
there was wet enough in its skirts to bring it
along cold as hail. The Golden Hope, with
Mr. Fortescue on board, had got under way
from Gravesend that morning at ten o'clock,
and under gaff and square-topsails, had sailed
down the smooth river at a handsome pace,
sweeping no more than a ripple or two aft, as
she sheared through it with her keen stem.
And now she was off the North Foreland,
heading to the southwards of the Goodwin ;
for it was pretty certain that the wind would
fly into the south-west presently, and Captain

Hiram Weeks and Mr. Stone had seeded it
that a ''ratch" to the French coast and a board
to the Ness would help them to abreast of the
Wight with only a shift of helm, after which
there was all the breadth of the Channel
before them to the Cherbourg coast with the
wind-up of a close-hauled run to the Lizard,
whence departure would be taken for the
island in the Indian Ocean; always supposing,
of course, that the wind hung strong at southwest.


From the moment of the start it had been
all a scene of wonder to Fortescue ; not in
the form of river scenery ; no. below bridge,
Father Thames is as ugly as mud can make
a river-god ; and what is there to admire in
the country beyond, in Plaistow Level, in
Plumstead- Marshes, in Tilbury, Convey
Island and the Machin Sands ? — though most
of these horrors Fortescue missed, starting,
as he did, from Gravesend. It was the shipping
that made the interest, for in those days
the clumsy old paddle steamers with high
funnels, dog's-eared atop, and tall, squab
hulls as full of windows as hotels, were still
new enough as marine experiments to be

viewed with surprise, and consequently too
rare to deform the quaint and picturesque
squadrons of sailing vessels with the obscuration
and defilement of coils of sooty smoke.

Through dozens of colliers, turning up and
turning down, through boys, barges, and little
smacks, through big ships at anchor waiting
for the tide to serve, the Golden Hope had
threaded her way, admired as the writer
always was, by the seamen aboard the vessels
she passed ; the more beautiful for the contrasts
she created, when her white canvas, cut
to a hair and as superbly a part of her life
and strength as are the wings of an eagle to
that kingly thing, and her long, low, gleaming,
flying hull, heralded by its trumpeting
figure, paired for a breath with some apple-bowed
old coachman, working with black sails
across the river, or with some lump of a brig
getting her anchor to the tempestuous chorus
of:—

Old Stormy he is dead and gone !"
It was very unlike Wyloe ; very unlike any
sort of calm, clerical, rural existence, this
busy scene of singing sailors, of dingy waters
running under the fresh breeze, of colliers,

shaving one another as they shifted their
helms for a fresh "leg," whilst their crews
expressed their feelings by clenched fists
shaken over the rail, of hands aloft on the
brought-up ships sending down sail and yards,
and so on, and so on till the opening of the
river, past the More. found more room for
the Golden Hope, less crowding of craft, and
a bit of a swell, coming, one couldn't tell from
where, but taking sharp Wrinkles from the
wind and making two white lines of the
schooner's wake with eddies and bubbles in
plenty between, as the little vessel swept
onwards, curtseying, like a sweet bride bowing
to the salutations of her lord and master.
Also, there were other things besides
external objects to interest Mr. Fortescue,
who. though pale and melancholy enough to
justify any theory that based this voyage
upon his health, nevertheless looked a fine,
manly fellow in the lay clothes he had shipped
in the room of the flapping skirts and white
tie of his professional garb. Indeed, Mr.
Clayton would scarcely have recognised, in
the broad, tall figure, warmly habited in a
pea-coat and well-lined cap. with ear-flaps

triced up ready for letting go, a shape that
had appeared comparatively lean in the
costume of his calling. There had been
more than the river and its spectacle to
watch. First, the captain — Hiram Weeks —
who had received the curate with respectful
cordiality as he stepped over the gangway at
Gravesend. His leathern, hollow face and
starting eyes, his twisted fingers and long
straggling shanks, did not indeed furnish him
with the aspect of the typical sailor, whom it
is customary to regard as red-nosed, bow-legged,
highly-coloured with grog-blossom,
full of unintelligible words, and • good-natured
and entertaining mainly on the strength of
being more or less tipsy ; yet the early impression
Mr. Fortescue received, whilst he
marked his alertness and vigilance, noticed
his rapid orders, and a certain carelessness
of demeanour too, such as a sailor has, was
that Mr. Salt had not erred in selecting
this man. Then there was the crew to
observe, all of whom would be on deck,
and though Mr. Fortescue had no acquaintance
with blue-water sailors, he felt that
these men could not but make a satisfactory

ship's company, as he remarked their sober
behaviour, fresh as they were from the
temptations of the tavern and the boardinghouse
ashore, and honestly as they might
deem a drop too much no great wrong
in men bound on a long voyage, to be dissociated
from their families and friends for
many months. Nor could he doubt their
respectability as he surveyed their costumes
of fur Scotch caps, warm jackets, pilot or
fearnought trousers, and their hearty looks,
such as you see among well-fed naval crews,
rather than among neglected merchantmen,
growling, like the sea-dogs bad treatment
makes them, at dripping forecastle, hardwork,
bad pay, and food out of which a
rat could scarce get nourishment.

He had taken care to ask Stone, at an
early hour, what the men had been told
concerning the voyage ; for, spite of his
reticence, he never knew whether the sole
incentive and desire of this undertaking had
not leaked out of him unconsciously, but
sufficiently to enable such shrewd perceptions
as Salt's and Skinner's or even Stone's
to hit the truth, or to arrive at conclusions-more

prejudicial than the truth. But Stone
had reassured him in his plain, honest,
sailor fashion, thus : —

'' Why, sir, the men have signed articles
for a voyage to the Indian Ocean and
back, touching at an island there ; the
scheme being to benefit your health, and
likewise to satisfy your mind as to whether
there's anyone surviving from the Merula
aboard that island ; and all hands are content,
as they ought to be, for it'll be mere
pleasure', with plenty to eat and drink,
and the beautifully hull under their feet
as ever sailed through this stream of mud
and water." For when this was said the
schooner was turning into Sea Reach.

This was comforting, for Mr. Fortescue's
sensitiveness was certain to have misconstrued
the naturally inquisitive glances
which the crew, at the onset, would cast
at the owner of the vessel. Barring half-an-hour,
for a mouthful of dinner at two,
he had remained on deck all the time,
doubtful, when the first of the light swell —
fast increasing in weight — took the schooner,
whether he should not be sea-sick. But

men perfectly new to the sea often escape.
It is not to be explained ; persons have
been known to make their first voyage to
Australia without suffering from an hour's
nausea, and when they started on a second
voyage they were sick for several days.
In those times, opportunities for travel were
not as they now are ; and no friends of
Fortescue would have felt the least wonder
to hear him say that he had never been
on salt-water in his life. This was the
truth ; nevertheless, when the Golden Hope
had struck the Channel fair off the North
Foreland, and with flattened sheets, was
bowing a strong head sea in her ratch
past the Goodwin, Fortescue, standing to
windward of the tiller, assured Captain
Weeks, in answer to his question, that he
felt no more inconvenience from the movement
than were he seated in a jolting
carriage.

'swell done, sir!" cried Hiram, in his
curious, husky, rattling, but penetrating voice,
*' it is evident you're a born sailor, as all
natives of such an island as Britain ought to
be. If the sea ain't us Englishmen's true

element, then the sooner the French flag's
hoisted 'bove our Jack the better ; for it's
only one jockey old Ocean can mount at a
time, and if John Bull can't keep the saddle,
then let old Crapaud haul himself into the
seat by the tail, which he's always a-trying to
catch hold of. But I hope not to live to see
that day, sir."

'* Is it not blowing fresh. Captain Weeks?"
said Fortescue, putting all early nautical
questions timidly.

Well, perhaps fresh is pretty near the word,
sir," answered Weeks. '' But what a vessel
is this ? See here, with a single reefed mainsail,
single reefed foresail, reefed fore-topsail,
standing-jib and staysail, mark how she's
walking ! Never knew anything drier. The
sea seems afraid of her — chucks itself off her
bovv^ just when it seems to have made up its
mind to tumble over the rail. I've been
watching in the Hope, across the Western
Ocean, when its blowed so hard we've passed
no less than five vessels hove-to, each pretty
nigh big enough to stow us on their main-deck.
I'll tell you what's the quality of this
craft, Mr. Fortescue. Look over the stern.

D'ye see her wake rising to that sea there
that's running at it ? Well, if you were to
mark half a compass-circle on the taffrail and
calculate the direction of that wake bv
heaving the lordship overboard, you wouldn't
hind as much leeway as 'ud give you the
sixteenth of a point."

All this was unintelligible to Fortescue ;
but sailors never take any account of land-going
ignorance when their minds are full ;
besides, apart from Weeks' wish to be polite
to the owner of the Golden Hope, it was
natural he should wish to strengthen the
recommendation he had driven her when they
met in the docks.

'* She is evidently a very fast vessel," said
Fortescue, glancing over the bulwark, past
which the foam was whirling in a white wild
dazzle, from contrast with the green seas, into
which the dusky sky was putting a dark, cold
shade. The chalk off the Foreland was
dim on the quarter, and the land went in a
tremble to Broadstairs, where it vanished,
save for a blob or two of prominence that
might have passed for the melting head of
a sea. Presently, a gleam shone to starboard,

where the North Sand Head was,
and as the Gull-light twinkled far distant, the
sullen shadow of the night in the east met
the southerly dimness, and the wind came
along in a dull moaning and warning sweep
from the southward of west, with the dampness
of fine rain in it, and a quick heel of the
schooner that provoked a hoarse shout from
Captain Weeks.

Down foresail, men ! Down with it
sharply. Haul the staysail down, my lads !"

He poked his leathern face into the
binnacle, the lamp of which had been lighted
half-an-hour before. The schooner had
broken off a couple of points and in the
faint glare, off the white water alongside,
you could see the luff of the mainsail,
hollowing-in a trifle to the grip the schooner
had of the wind, ere it swelled out its wide
cloths to the clew that was causing the
massive boom to tear at the main-sheet,
as if it would snap the stout hemp like a
bit of twine.

Mr. Fortescue stood watching the men,
just perceiving their outlines, wondering by
what instinct they managed to lay hold of

the right ropes in that gloom, and without
the faintest notion in what direction the
schooner was heading, and lost in astonishment
at the skill that enabled the captain
to know which way to steer and what sail
to shorten.

'* Mr." Stone, as he should be called, being
mate, stepped aft to where Fortescue and
Captain Weeks were standing.

'* Rational weather for March, sir," said he,
cheerfully. "Shouldn't keep too long on
deck. /\ spell down below for a warm w41l
keep ye going."

I don't feel cold," said Fortescue, too
interested to notice that he was cold. "The
night has come down dark, but it's a pleasure
to feel we're moving. Whilst the white froth
there races past I know we're not lingering ;
and every mile, Mr. Stone, makes the voyage
shorter by six thousand and eighty feet."

At this Weeks coughed, and Stone cast a
glance aloft. What was the good of telling
the gentleman that if they kept all on heading
as they were, they'd need a long overland
drive before they should catch sight of the
Indian Ocean?

VOL. I. r

'' Take another reef in the mainsail, and
two reefs in the gaff-foresail and set it, and
then muster the men and settle the watches,
Mr. Stone," said the captain.

Sail was reefed and set as directed. The
mate then went forward and roared out. The
hands lay aft, and after a bit Stone reappeared
with a lantern. There was to be
no jealousy; Weeks and Stone were evidently
agreed that of the crew one was as good as
another ; so the picking of the watches came
to this: — In the captain's, or starboard watch,
were James Kitt, Tim Duck, Sam Wiles,
Micky Anson, the cook, and Johnny Simpson,
boy ; in the mate's, or larboard watch, as
the term then was, were Martin Goldsmith*
William Breeches, Henry Sawyer and Joe
Hall ; four as against five, but then one of
the sparrow-lines was a boy, whilst the
larboard watch had the advantage of a
working mate.

The crew went forward, the mate put the
lantern away, and the schooner thrashed
through the water, the sky dark as thunder
overhead, yet with an opening here and thereof
faintness rather than light that the eye

could not determine, though it was sensible
of it ; not lightning nor anything resembling
it, but a kind of blinking, as though the glare
off some league of foam were flung down back
again by the clouds. One knew the keen
look-out that was being kept forward by the
answer that was returned to the captain's or
Stone's call, as if it were the echo of it ; and
one also knew how much depended upon
those eyes on the forecastle. It was blowing
strong indeed, and the mainsail turned the
wind into a continuous roll of thunder, whilst
now there was uproar in plenty over the
weather bow, against which the black surges
came swelling full to be smitten into an acre
of whiteness by the irresistible blow of the
flying hull ; and often you would have
thought the night thick with hail, when a
headlong floating rush of the clipper into a
hollow was followed by a rattling of spray
upon the forward decks like a wagon load of
gravel capsized from the height of the topsail-yard.
Another reef in the mainsail would
not have been amiss, one might have fancied,
for the bow sea, catching the vessel fair under
the bluff and under her bends, heeled her

over till her lee rail looked flush with the
froth there, and her recovery would be such
a straining that the iron-stiff shrouds and
backstairs drove a whole volley of shrieks
into the heart of the wind, until the roaring
and screaming, and the deep tones thundering
out of the sails, and the washing noise
that is made by billows as they curl their
heads and fling the snow of their summits
into the valleys at their feet, were like to
deafen and distract a better sailor than Malcolm
Fortescue. But Hiram knew his ship,
and what he meant her to do, and he
thoroughly comprehended his own ideas,
which cannot be said of all shipmasters. He
had no notion of being blown back, for that
would be a bad first step in Mr. Fortescue's
opinion ; and, expecting more wind yet, he
was resolved to rush the Golden Hope
through her ratch to the southward and
eastward till Calais lights showed, so that he
might put the Goodwin Sands a long distance
to leeward, when, after 'boating ship, he laid
up fair for Dungeness Bay.

Leaving Stone in charge, he followed
Fortescue below for the first of the two

nips " he told the clergyman he allowed
himself. The first nip consisted of a gill of
rum in a tumbler filled up with hot water,
in which a piece of lemon peel floated. He
strongly advised Mr. Fortescue to try it,
as he said there was no manlier drink than
rum, nothing more comforting to the liver,
and the only spirit of them all that enabled
Great Britain to keep her supremacy at sea.
But Fortescue said, though he might come
to like it by-and-bye, whisky would suit
him best for the present, and he drank
the small quantity he was accustomed to
take of a night at Wyloe, not more to
keep Hiram Weeks in countenance than to
warm himself, for he had come desperately
cold from the deck, as he now found out.
There was a swinging lamp over the table,
and you wanted no livelier indicator of the
rolling and pitching of the vessel. In the
plain brown and grey of that little cabin,
with its holes for bunks, its glowing stove,
the wonderful dance of fantastic shadows
to the oscillations of the lamp, the pale
face of Fortescue, and Captain Weeks' gaunt,
long-jawed countenance, and thin, booted

legs, branched out like open scissors, a
Dutchman with a genius for painting would
have found much to delight him. But
unhappily it is not in pigments, nor is it
in ink, to give to this interior the qualities
of sound and motion which made it the
wonder that Fortescue found it. Every
noise was dulled, and it seemed the stormier
for that, as the motion felt the livelier for
one not being able to see what caused it ;
every wash aft of a surge was like a sulky
roar of some imprisoned beast of thunderous
voice ; the crying in the rigging was multitudinous
in its notes, and human-like, as
though raised by a mob of all ages and
both sexes, because the ear was no longer
deafened by the general uproar.

'see, now, Mr. Fortescue," said Hiram,
"what good a schooner is compared to
any other craft you could have chosen.
Here you are walking through it at seven
knots an hour, a point and a half closer
to the course you want than any square-rig
could give ye. A point and a half closer
and three knots faster, not to reckon leeway,
which, in a light brig or ship, you.

might calculate at three or four points,
whilst I am not allowing th' Hope modern
one point, and' that's for the send of the
sea, nothing else."

You know the schooner well ? "

So well that if she'd been my own wife,
married to me forty year, I couldn't know
her better. When the voyage is over there'll
be nothing to find fault with, I'm sure. Your
object is to get her to the island as fast as
you can — that island which Mr. Stone has
the reckonings of, and which I have marked
down on my chart. Roughly measured, and
going outside Madagascar, how fur off d'ye
think it is, Mr. Fortescue ?"

I have not calculated."

*' Well, it'll be all ten thousand nautical
miles. And how long do you reckon, sir,
it's my intention to allow th' Hope to doit
in ?"

Fortescue asked him to say.

'' Sixty days, counting from the forenoon
just gone by, if the Trades are a-blowing
still, as their custom's been for ages, and
if the Cape of Good Hope ain't further
south than the charts represent it," he

exclaimed, putting his empty tumbler into a
rack and taking a biscuit out of the locker
he was sitting upon and masticating it
violently, so that what with the expression
of triumph in his face, and the muscles
working about it in knots, and his long,
moving jaws, he looked, in that swinging
and changeful light, more like some live
savage set up for worship by his cannibal
admirers than an English seaman. Yet
unmistakable good-humour and sympathy
shone out of his protruding eyes, and
when Fortescue said eagerly, ''I pray
God, Captain Weeks, that the run may be
achieved in the time you name," Hiram
answered, "You'll see her in the Trades and
you'll see her in the Doldrums. You'll find
out, sir, that just as she'll do a comfortable
twelve when the right wind's blowing, so
there'll be ne'er a caspar, not sufficient of
draught to make a butterfly dance on a blade
of grass, out of which she'll not get legs
enough to make the log-reel revolve. And
modern that, Mr. Fortescue, you mark, if so
be there's people on that island, as I understand
that you've got it in your head to

fancy, there'll not be half as much rejoicing
over their captivity being ended by th' Hope,
as there'll be wonder at the flying rate she'll
have come to them at, dating from this
blessed day, wind sour-west, night black, and
the vessel making a ratch that's only better
than having the anchor on the ground,
because presently it'll enable us to shove her
nose something to the north o' west. You
see," said he, rising, pulling his cap on
firmly, and lingering only to cut a piece offa
cake of black tobacco, which he pulled out
of his trousers' pocket, afterwards closing the
knife, thrusting it and the tobacco into his
pocket again and taking a squint at the
fragment ere putting it into his cheek, all
very slowly and deliberately, for your true
merchantman never is in a hurry unless the
occasion arises, when he becomes as active
as a monkey, '' You see, sir, a good many
would bring up in the Downs and wait for
daylight if nothing more followed. But it
isn't only that speed's your desire, the
selection of the Hope has got to be justified,
and I've made up my mind that nothing
short of a living gale shall stop us for a

week, or a day, or an hour, according as that
living gale may serve us. As I told Mr. Salt
when he says to me, * Captain,' he says,
don't spare her, 'tis a long voyage ; the
schooner Isn't an Indiamen for accommodation
; my relative won't be able to bear too
much salt-water In a vessel of her tonnage,
and you must tarn to and forget all about
figs and currants and raisins, and Imagine
ye're chartered to fetch and bring home the
first of the season's teas, on a wager, which,
if lost, '11 ruin three aldermen who purveys
provisions for sailors, and involve the social
position of the Lord Mayor of London, "^
whatever that may mean."

Thus speaking, and with a laugh like the
noise made by a saw shearing through a
baulk of teak, he clawed his way to the
companion and with two strides gained the
deck.

TOUCH AND GO.

FoRTESCUE remained for some time in the
cabin after Captain Weeks had left it. So
much of the visionary character of this errand
was mixed up in the steps he had taken from
the time of his dream down to the moment of
his embarkation, that when he looked back,
the dark curtain of the past seemed to exhibit
no more than a phantasmagoria, and waking
up from the reverie he had fallen into, it was
with a start that he felt the sharp realization
that came to him, with his glance around the
dancing light and shadows, the leaping deck,
the ever-varying angles of stanchion and
ceiling.

He felt his imagination growing dangerous,
as indeed an observer would have suspected
from the expression of his face, whose
blanched cheeks and large, dark gleaming

eyes and fixed and tightened lips, took a
character that seemed scarcely earthly, from
the red tinge imparted by the stove and
the swing of the cabin lamp, whose fluctuating
lustre gave him the air of an
incessant change of mood. He suddenly rose,
taking no heed of the sloping and tossing of
the deck, for deep meditation had rendered
him insensible to time, place and movement ;
but at sea there is no supernaturalism of any
kind, that ever I heard of, which will enable
a landsman to balance himself with ease when
his vessel is cutting capers, and perhaps the
obligation to hastily lay hold of the table, and
put his whole mind into the necessity of
gaining the deck without tumbling down, did
him more good than all the doctors in Great
Britain rising as one man to prescribe for him.
If you are hysterical, sleepless, suffering
from any or all of those nervous maladies, of
which a full list is generally appended nowadays
to every rascally quack's advertisement
of his pill or potion, go, oh ! reader, to sea.
Why, in a very short time, had Fortescue
remained seated in that cabin, we should
probably have found him growing hysterical,

choking with sobs, struggling with a sense of
hopelessness, and feeling that if his inspired
errand should prove futile, the very deepest
part of the Indian Ocean would not have
depth enough to hide his bones. But what
does this man do — this sensible man, whom
Mrs. Clayton. Mr. Salt. Mr. Skinner, and,
for all one knows, \\ william Stone, consider
functionally disturbed ? He creeps and claws
his way up the companion-steps, and scarcely
has he got his head above the hatch, when
pouff ! thunders a blast of salt-water wind
clean into his throat and blows every nervous,
every hysterical, every despondent feeling
out of him overboard. In the cabin it was
simply pitching and tossing, with the confinement
of bulkheads forcing the mind inwards ;
but on deck it was a great black world, higher
for its sooty shadows of clouds than the stars
could have made it appear, broader than
daylight could have shown it for the distance
the nearer froth made the further foaming
heads show at ; wild and hoarse with wind
and resonant with the shrilling in the rigging,
so that a man fresh from the cabin, coming
out of the lamp-light into the darkness and

the noise, would have been able to think of
nothing but what he could faintly see and
with half-deafened organ hear.

In reality, there was no more wind than
was blowing ere Mr. Fortescue left the
deck, but it seemed to him to come with
double its old weight, and with an added
spite of cold in it. Oh! it was a raw wind.
A wind to make one think how shipwrecked
men must suffer in such weather, when their
vessels go ashore and they lash themselves
aloft where the gale comes hardest and
bitterest, and where the freezing wet covers
the body like glass; and to protect his wet
ears, the clergyman covered them with the
well-lined flaps of his cap. But the sea ran
higher if the wind had not increased. The
Golden Hope was nearing the French coast,
but Cape Grinned was too far off to check the
impulse of the billows that were running with
deep hollows and snow-clouded heads to the
boisterous shouting of the up-channel wind.
Ere Mr. Fortescue had stood holding-on in
the companion ten seconds trying to find his
eyes, one sample of the conflict between the
brave cutwater and bow of the schooner and

the black peaks hurling their weight of
toppling summits against the shearing vessel,
was submitted to him in the form of a wild
sand shrieking dive of her whole length into a
white trough, hissing as a thousand score of
serpents might, then a floating rise of the
forward part, like to the flight of a vast
albatross snapping into the head of a surge
for what it sees there, and then a clean cut
through the weave, elbowing it into a hill of
foam to windward, half of which was swung
by the wind over the forecastle into the
lee water, though with a mighty smiting
of the deck by a load of it that missed
the leap.

Fortescue made out the figure of Weeks,
lean and long as the staff of a dog-vane,
stiffly erect on the weather quarter, where
he was keeping as bright a look-out as his
protruding eyes would permit. Stone came
up from to leeward to the clergyman.

"On deck again, sir?" said he. "I hope
you feel perfectly comfortable and easy in
your mind. Pity the first night should be so
rough and dark ; but it ain't stopping us,
and that's a good job."

'ein what direction are we sailing, Mr,
Stone ?"

'' Right on to the Callyy coast, sir. That's
the Granny light away there on the weather
bow ; we shall be 'boating ship soon fora
ratch to t'other side, where roast beef
and plum-sudden's found. After all, Mr.
Fortescue, there's no place like home, even
to a man who's got none ; which is no contradiction,
because by home I mean where a
man's born, not the house he lives in. Fancy
being a native of the country we're pointing
at! 'Taint that the French ain't clever, and
first-class hands at cutting out mantles and
female dresses, but a nation that prefers soup
to beer can't be up to much in my opinion,
when ye think of 'em as fighting by land,
let alone water, which they never will know
notion about."

He had to shout to be heard ; for he had
not only the wind to out-bellow, but there
were Mr. Fortescue's ear-pads to penetrate.

What's that light out there .^" said the
clergyman, pointing ahead.

'really light. If there was more oil in
that town we'd see the sheen chucked up

by the houses, just as Deal's visible ten
mile off, low as she lies. But my notion
is that Frenchmen uses their oil in their
food, instead of burning it. Was ye ever
in Callyy, sir ?"

'' Never."

"Well, it's more a smell nor a town. All
.the work's done by the women. The men
make trousers out of their wives' aprons ;
think o' that ! They steals all the lump sugar
they come across, and hide it in their caps.
The women don't kiss. It's only the menas
are permitted to do that. I allow that's
why they wear wooden shoes. If kissing' the
girls was permitted, the men 'ud need boots
as wouldn't make a noise."

At this Mr. Fortescue laughed outright —
his first laugh for many a month.

"Ton my word, sir," continued Stone,
'* you're making astonishing good weather
of this tumble. I never supposed you'd be
sick, unnatural behaviour of that kind you're
incapable of ; but I certainly did not expect
to find ye looking the wind in the eye as
you're doing — and a cold eye, too, mind you,
sir — an' yarning here, must night at sea, and a
VOL. I. <^

dirty night, certainly, as if you were an old
hand. But I've always fancied that the
clergy are a good deal like sailors. They've
got to tarn to when the call's made, whether
it's blown' or snowing' or anything else. And
though they do a deal of good, yet, like
sailors, they gets a vast of abuse. You
recollect the tale of the young lady, who,
when some sailors were pointed out to her,
said, ' Why, they're just like men !' I don't
mean to say that young lady could mistake
the clergy for anything but men. I've always
fancied they're too fond of 'em for to commit
such an error. But you may depend upon it,
sir, sailors and ministers of the Gospel aren't
so fur apart as some folks might think.
There's more language, as the saying is,
perhaps, among seafaring people than
preachers indulge themselves in ; but it's a
question if there'd be even that difference if
parsons had the worries of sailor men."

At this point of his interesting remarks
on things in general, Stone was interrupted
by a cry from Weeks.

*' Fo'ksle there! Is that a ship to windward
on the bow yonder ?"

Stone Instantly staggered over to the rail,
and Fortescue followed him. There was a
pause before an answer was returned from
the forecastle.

"Ay, sir, it's a vessel, and she looks to
be standing in for Calais."

The interposition of the bulwark made all
the difference when one stood at the companion
and when one looked over the rail.
Here the weight of the wind came sheer
off the smooth, sloping side of the fabric and
flashed yelling into the canvas ; and what
with the force of it and the spray, it was
more than Fortescue could confront for
longer than a few moments at a time,
whilst all that his brief glance showed
him was a windward darkness that rendered
Weeks' power of penetrating it miraculous
to the clergyman, and a swarming surface
of white spreading from the schooner's bow,
the milky glare of which turned the sky into
a floor of ebony, and caused the water
beyond to appear as folds of black vapour.

She looks to me as if she was running,
sir," shouted Stone, after staring a bit under
his hands.

*' Ay, that's so, I believe!" bawled Weeks,,
coming to abreast of the main rigging in
three springs, like a kangaroo. " Show a
light !"

But William Stone, old as he was, was
before them all ; he had jumped for the
lantern — always kept ready for such emergencies
before the bewildering regulation of
lights was introduced — ere the words were
well out of Hiram's mouth, and was speedily
three ratlines high in the foregoing, flourishing
the lantern, in the haze of which his
figure stood out against the blackness like
the sketch of a man done in phosphorus.
A few seconds after the lantern had been
shown, the vessel out in the darkness spied
it, and presently was all alight with lanterns
and flare-tins, the latter streaming out the
smoky flames of turpentine and oil with
particles of the burning cotton flying in
sparks with the wind. It was more an
apparition than a reality, and Fortescue
swinging to a backstay, watched with
breathless excitement the wonderful spectacle
presented by the vessel, which her
crowd of lights disclosed as a large, full-rigged

ship, the water under her coloured
red as blood to every stately roll to port,
and her forecourse and topsails and staysails
to as high as the radiance went, showing
a pale yellow, till they vanished in the
sooty darkness. She was too far off for
faces to be seen, and the wind blew whatever
shouts the people raised clean away
from the hearing of the schooner. But the
alarm, the hurry, the sort of exemplification
you seemed to feel was going on aboard
her, all illustrated by the pell-mell manner
in which her lights had sprung up, proved
her a Frenchman, a high, slow tub, running,
as Mr, Stone had declared, and rapidly closing
with the Golden Hope, whose hawse
she was crossing, and whose stem would
be into her if it depended only on her
crew.

Hard down ! " shouted Weeks. " Ready
about, my lads."

The long tiller was swept over and
jammed hard a-lee ; Stone sprang out of
the foregoing ; some hands went leaping
to the foresheet ; there was a thunderous
noise of flapping canvas, and the big ship,

with her waving lanterns and throbbing
streaming flares, swept from one bow to the
other, close enough in that dizzy reel for
dozens of white faces on her poop and along
her sides and on her forecastle to be seen in
the light of the signals ; close enough for the
radiance of lamps upon her cabin windows to
shine over the foam under them like the
yellow eyes of sea-monsters rushing past ;
close enough for the roaring of the wind in
her sails to be heard, and the creaking of
blocks, the clatter of ropes blown against
ropes, the grinding of wheel-chains, the jar
of the very rudder smitten by a volume of
water, swelling to the counter and uprearing
the ship's stern to the height of the topsail-yard
of the schooner that spun on her heel,
amid the very wake of the big ship, as it
seemed.

There is always a certain amount of excitement
in tacking a vessel in a strong breeze
and rough sea ; noise is inevitable, and there
is much necessary running here and there to
pull upon ropes and belay, and drag the yards
round and haul the sheets flat. But when a
craft has to be put about in a violent hurry

to avert the dread disaster of collision, the
business is something to quicken the pulse
of the coolest seaman. Fortescue quite
understood the peril they had been in, and
appreciated the instant resolution and smartness
with which a catastrophe, that in all
probability would have put an end to his
voyage for good and all, had been evaded,
but, landsman-like, the chief part of his alarm
was caused, not by the schooner having
been nearly sent to the bottom, but by the
manoeuvring through which she had escaped
that fate. One moment there was a sense of
swift movement ; the next, the feeling of
being wing-borne was gone, and the schooner
w-as savagely chopping the billows, plunging
furiously on a level keel, with sails shaking,
sheets thrashing, the wind meeting the rush
into its eye of the staying vessel with a loud
roaring as it split against the masts. But it
was a wonderful scene ere the schooner took
the breeze on her port-bow; black as thunder,
not a break for a pinion of vapour to show
against overhead ; on the lee quarter the big
ship, her place indicated by a windy gleam
on her deck or by the inky blot her shadow

made where her canvas stood ; a dim haze
where Calais was, with a brighter speck or
two in the foreground ; the lantern of Cape
Grinned, like some electric exhalation, poised
under the far-off, cloudy thickness of dusk
over the headland ; the sea, to where It died
out In darkness, a melancholy swollen waste,
wintry with pallid drifts and streaks of froth
and with the keen fangs of the wind, In every
blast of which there rang a wolfish howling.
I say It was a wonderful scene, at least to
the unaccustomed sight of Fortescue, whose
glance had the swiftness and encompassing
power possessed by the Imaginative and
poetic mind. But In another moment the
Golden Hope was leaning to starboard,
almost burying herself whilst she seemed to
collect her forces for the first bound ; then
with a shiver as If flinging off the wet of the
heavy wash of the spray that broke over her
forecastle, she leapt to the summit of a surge
and went tearing through it as though she
had the scent of the English soil in her nose
and meant to let her owner see what she was
capable of In this second ratch across the
Channel.

But the perpetual storming of the wind,
cold with wet, with southing, with the chill it
swept up off the water and took from the
bleak March night it blew through, was more
than Fortescue could any longer stand. He
told Captain Weeks he should go below to
bed.

'you can't do better, sir. Hope you'll
sleep well, and that you'll take no notice of
what's just happened. It's a night to force a
man to forget he's got eyelids — I mean for
the darkness ; as for the breeze, it 'ud be
beautiful if it only blew the right way.
Mr. Stone and me intends to keep the
deck together and watch th' Hope fair into
daylight, for you see, sir, the necessity of
making that island of yours as soon as
possible is a obligation that's bound to
keep us all on going ; and, allowing for this
wrong-headed wind to hold its present weight,
I shall reckon it a queer start if by breakfast-time
tomorrow morning we haven't got sea
room enough before us to keep the Atlantic
straight in our road ; for after another board
to the land of frogs we shan't object to taking
a squint at the Lizard when we've got the

whole of the bay under our larboard bow
round the corner."

Whatever this language meant, Mr. Fortescue
was sure it must be satisfactory, and
he also noticed with pleasure the marked tone
of respectful sympathy in Weeks' words. He
shook hands with him, called a good-night
to Stone, and went below, where Johnny
Simpson, the boy, lighted his cabin lamp
and helped him in other ways. Fortescue
would perhaps have found his cabin rather
smaller than it was, if he had not come
to it from rooms not very much larger.
It was comfortably fitted with a bunk,
drawers, and washstand, lighted in day-time
by a bull's eye and a scuttle fitted with
immensely thick glass, now tightly screwed
up and converted by the blackness outside
into a looking-glass which reflected the lamplight
outside, and gave back the clergyman's
face when he sought to peer through it.

He sat a long while in this cabin before
going to bed.

Many tender, and sad, and joyous, and
shocking scenes the surface of the ocean has
betrayed to the sun and the stars ; but what

6y

sight stranger and more affecting in its way,
what more composite with qualities of hope
and fear, and faith, and supernatural impulse,
did any surge-tossed vessel contain, than this
of the cabin of the schooner Golden Hope,
where the devoted lover, the ardent believer
in his maker's mercy, the man who in his
wonderful yearning for his betrothed had
embarked in a search for her on the slender
promise of a dream without a sequel, kneeled
with damp cheeks and lifted hands, whilst
through the words he uttered rang the tramp
of seamen moving about the decks, the
crying of the wind, the splashing and
seething sounds of billows recoiling from
the spurning sides of the vessel rising
buoyant to their angry blows ?

STRUGGLING THROUGH IT.

Wind in the English Channel is very often
a great deal more constant than capricious.
From those same Downs, in which the
Merula had brought up for a few hours,
seamen will tell you that they have sailed
away for the Azores or South European ports,
leaving vessels at anchor windbound, and that
they have returned to find them still at anchor,
windbound. A west-south-west breeze sometimes
rising into half a gale, is an evil wind
for a vessel bound down Channel on a course
nearly due west by magnetic compass ;
and whatever Captain Weeks might have
hoped when he bade Mr. Fortescue goodnight,
the result proved an intensely disagreeable
wrestle with the wind, tack by
tack, lasting five days, from the longitude
of the North Foreland, ere the Golden

Hope had fairly got the Lizard abreast of
her.

This cold and prolonged disappointment
of weather seemed to be as much felt by the
little schooner as by everyone in her, from
Mr. Fortescue down to Johnny, the boy.
Her beauty was not gone, but she looked
like a handsome girl suffering from a severe
cold, shivering, jaded, irritable. Weeks
kept his topmasts fitted, for he was an
old Atlantic jockey, and he wanted a black
gale before he could be got to think of
sending down spars or housing them : and
so the schooner remained sightly enough for
the eye to look at aloft. The spectacle was
miserable ! You saw it in the face of the
helmsman, robed in gleaming sour-wester,
long pea-coat, and yellow leggings, when he
peered with a sulky squint at as much of the
sea as was visible, or when a vicious swerve
of the worried craft forced him to help her
with the helm (with a bad word in his throat,
which he expelled along with a squirt of
tobacco juice), before the hang of her should
give the surge a chance of sweeping a few
tons of its water over her midship weather-rail.

Likewise you saw it in Weeks' leathern
cheeks and his unusually animated chewing
of the nautical cud, when he'd come up from
below and behold nothing but the same sight
over and over again ; and in Mr. Stone, out
of whose soul the headwind was extracting
the sourness which mariners of sixty years
old and upwards are commonly found to be
as full of when irritated as a lemon is of acid
juice when squeezed ; and in the crew, whose
chief business lay in keeping a bright lookout,
in attending to the sheets and braces
when Weeks or Stone gave the order to
tack, in warming their frozen fingers and
squeezing the mist out of their keys.

Mr. Fortescue was patient, and Weeks
said nothing to render him otherwise.

** Still dead ahead the wind is," he would
remark to the curate, "but th' Hope's a
vessel as knows how to go to windward
pretty near as well as those box-bottomed
Geordie as hail from the north know how to
go to leeward. A square bigger would take
ten or twelve days to find her way to abreast
of Portland even in clear weather, with this
breeze heading her, whilst we should be well

-on to be clear of the Channel by this time if
it wasn't that I mustn't keep her under the
-canvas she could carry, when the smother at
times won't allow you to see five times her
length."

Indeed, to speak the truth, Hiram had
l)een slightly scared by his narrow shave with
the French ship off Calais ; and ever since
had kept the schooner under easy canvas —
close-reefed square-topsail, reefed standing
jib and stay foresail, and treble-reefed mainsail
and gaff foresail.

after all," he had said to Mr. Stone,
'we're not up to the hatches with oranges
that'll have to be chucked overboard if we're
a few days behind our time. The H india
Ocean isn't Fresh Wharf, and better to lose
a week in this sulkiness with determination
to make up for it when blue water's under us
and th' horizon's visible, than crack on now
with the chance of doubling up a few smacks
on the road, or being doubled up ourselves
by running aboard of something ten times
our size."

And perhaps Fortescue's patience was
not indebted to his ignorance of the

meaning of beating against a strong headwind
and sea. Had the Golden Hope
brought up, say in Lyme Bay or under
the lee of the "Wight," he would have
chafed to a certainty with the thought of
the anchor being down and the schooner
tumbling and straining without one inch of
way ; but he could not help feeling to an
extent satisfied when, every time he glanced
over the rail, whether to port or to starboard,
he found the vessel lying down to
her work, shearing and seething through
it with a wake racing out astern of her
that might for length and whiteness have
served for a speed of ten miles an hour.
Besides being often tempted to go into the
head for the delight it gave him to look
over the rail and watch the stem of his
vessel ripping through the olive-coloured
water, flinging the rude foam off her
weather bow, or arching the surge backwards
into a faithless, glass-like comber,
he never failed to find a kind of exultation
inspired in him by the golden figure under
the bowsprit, poised in impetuous pose, and
triumphing with lifted trumpet over the

swelling waters, that leapt and then flashed
and then scattered to right and left before
the proud bounds and graceful, tigress-like
movements of the little craft. Moreover,
the wet, boisterous weather, by obliging
him to keep under shelter, led to long
talks with Stone and Hiram Weeks, as the
men's watch below or on deck permitted ;
by which means he acquired a very good
knowledge of their characters and peculiarities,
besides being much amused by them.
Of Stone he had the higher opinion, but
he believed he could see a great deal of
genuine manhood underlying Hiram's gaunt
and ugly exterior, and he liked him for this
as well as for many little things in his speech
and manner, too subtle to be expressed on
paper, but felt as a glance is, or a faint
gesture.

Yet Fortescue was embarrassed by him
when they were three days out, eating their
one o'clock dinner. Stone keeping the deck,
Johnny standing at the foot of the ladder
in attendance, and the skylight dark with
a squall which made the schooner so frisky
that it was not only hard for the clergy-vol.

I. R

man to see his plate, but to keep it from
tumbling into his lap.

'you may calculate, Mr. Fortescue," said
Weeks, '' that the ocean's make another man
of you. The sleeves and backs of your
coats'll have to be let out long before we're
heading for home if they're to clothe you.
When I was first bent on going to sea, I was
that delicate in my constitution that my
mother had to stand over me with a stick to
make me eat. Six months after I had used
the sea I'd have broken that same stick over
the head of any man as should have done me
out of as much of my 'romance of provisions
as might have been eat up by a fly whilst a
chap looked on. Yes, there's no medicine
like salt-water. Only think of what you
breathe. Take this breeze. Every mouthful
of it comes right across the Atlantic, with
nothing between and nothing particular behind,
for the Yankees are a middling clean
people ; besides, where this wind starts from,
it may be all prairie and clean coast from
Washington to Charleston, South Carolina."

I have no doubt that the ocean air will
do wonders for me," replied Fortescue,

quietly, never much relishing any reference
to himself.

I hope," continued Weeks, filling a glass
from a bottle of beer that he took from the
swinging tray, and balancing it as easily as
though there was not a move in the schooner,
whilst he held it up to the skylight and
peered through it with one eye that seemed
to start from its socket like a lobster's, 'that
you'll not think I'm wanting to know too
much, if I ask what put it into your head to
sail for the Indian Ocean. I understand,"
he added, after taking a drink, '* that some
friends of yours are missing from the
Merula — a fine ship, sir, nothing finer in
the Merchant Service or Navy was ever
burnt or lost — and Mr. Salt told me that
one reason of yours for seeking Stone's
Island was that you might find out whether
your friends was likely to be on it."

Fortescue gave him a half-nod, and folding
his arms, watched him, whilst Johnny tumbled
about the table, clearing up.

'' But Mr. Salt said your main object was
your health, though Stone has replied 'no*
to that. But then Mr. Salt's bound to know

more about it than Stone, and If I make so
bold as to ask you why you choose the Indian
Ocean, It's because I can't help fancying that
more southerly latitudes would suit you better.
It's broiling hot where we're bound to, sir.
You'll have a taste of It this side afore you
gets there, and as to anyone you have concern
in being on that Island of Stone's, why the
chance Is so much against it that I wouldn't
take It Into calculation If I was you, sir, but
think only of your health, and keep to the
south side."

"No doubt you're right as regards the
difference of the climate between the Equator
and the latitude, say, of the Cape of Good
Hope," said Fortescue, 'but I have an idea
that some of the survivors of the Merula
may be on that Island — which you call
Stone's Island — a good name for it — and
Mr. Stone is more correct than Mr. Salt In
saying that my chief object In purchasing
this vessel and making the voyage was to
satisfy my mind on that subject."

Hiram Weeks could not restrain his
curiosity.

*' Beg pardon, I'm sure, Mr. Fortescue,.

but if you've no better authority for believing
survivors to be on the island than supposing',
won't it come to making this voyage a very
expensive job to you if you find that there's
notion living when you get there ?"

'' Let us get there first," said Fortescue,
with perfect amiability, but in a tone which
compelled Hiram to understand that the
subject had been carried far enough.

The skipper took the hint, and after a stare
at the skylight, and then a look at the telltale
compass, and uttering a brief marine
growl at the weather, he went on deck.
He was puzzled, and stood a minute in the
companion-hatch, rubbing his nose, and
peering at old Stone, who stood to windward
of the tiller, clapping his breast for
warmth. He had half a mind to talk the
thing over with the mate, because his
curiosity had been excited by hearing Mr.
Fortescue himself say that his principal
object in making the voyage was to seek
some friends in the far-off island. " As
how," he said to himself, "could he know
there was any of 'em there, for the mere
hoping that they were there wasn't going

to make a man spend all two thousand
pounds, and travel twenty thousand miles,
and leave his duties ashore to take care
of themselves." But after contemplatively-squinting
awhile at Stone, he reflected that
Mr. Fortescue would be annoyed if it came
to his ears that the captain of his vessel was
talking and arguing about him ; so, instead,
he told the mate to go below and get his
dinner, and took his place on the weather
quarter, after a yell to the fellow in the bows
to keep his eyes skinned, for, said he, addressing
the seaman who was grasping the tiller
rope, 'confound me, Harry, if this here
smother isn't like a cauldron that I once saw
bilin' in a theater, when a piece was being
presented called ' Macbeth.' There was some
old women collected around the job, and
among other things I recollect of their chucking
in was a lizard's leg and the blood of
a sow as had ate her little uns."

"Who was going' to smaller the likes of
such broth as that ?" said the helmsman,
whose mahogany face looked almost black in
the dusky drizzle, and from contrast with the
reddish beard that forked straight out over

the collar of his oilskin coat. " Perhaps them
old women meant it for sailors."

It's not the broth I'm talking about," said
Weeks. "It's the allegory, if you know what
that means. I say that this here smother is
like the smoke from the cauldron I saw, only
instead of ghosts coming up out of it, as they
did in that theater play, it'll be vessels to
run against ;" and then, with a long look
round, he felt for a piece of tobacco, and
muttered, " Two eyes ain't enough for a
sailor. If nautical men had been taken into
consideration when this here birth came
blooming up into life out of notion at all, I
allow they'd have been treated as the peacock
is, eyes enough to sleep with and keep a lookout
with at the same time ; eyes for the head
and eyes for the stern ; eyes like yours and
mine for fine weather, and eyes like a proper
ship's glasses when it drawer up thick."

Weeks had reason to grumble, because
those days of Channel thickness put a deal of
heavy responsibility upon him. It was not
the cold, nor the wet, nor the headwind; it
was having to be up and down all the time,
seeing that everything was right, that the

look-out was alive and keen, and so forth.
He hadn't the shadow of a doubt that
Mr. Stone was to be trusted up to the
hilt; but the man was old as sailors go, had
knocked off the sea for some years, and
wanted watching, at all events till the
sky showed the road clear. The writer
was but a little craft — ninety tons — larger
in those days than she would be thought
now, but small all the same ; and offering
a hull which a tall, lumpish East or West
Indiaman, or a massive frigate, French
or English, or big warship of any nation,
v/ith bows like a cliff", thundering up
Channel or stretching north or south on a
bowline, would run down without feeling
more than a "thud," just enough to make
the look-out peer over the rail, and
wonder whether it could have been a balk
of timber or a buoy. Now and again a
dingy sort of smudge would show out to
port or starboard, and if the schooner was
heading that way the blotch would take the
shape and substance of a smack, perhaps, ora
groaning old Sunderland pink bound to a
French port, or a rakish Yankee brig

Steering for London river, driving with a
curtsey out of the folds of vapour into open
space ; more like a toy than a real vessel,
with her cotton-white canvas, staysail poles,
white netting round her short poop, and
the metal under her counter gleaming as
though a glare of sunshine touched its
wetness, when, after a saucy frisk or two,
she swung into the mist and faded out.
But most of the craft the Golden Hope
passed in that dreary, drizzling, bitterly cold
and blowing time, were just phantoms,
oozing of shadow which never took shape,
yet plentiful enough to make the daylight
not to speak of the long hours of darkness
— formidable ; and a blessed hour was
that when, on the eve of the change of
weather, Stone's and Weeks' noses, with
a crystal at the end of them, met close in
the light of the binnacle, in the delight the
men took to note that the wind had veered
with a sudden leap to the eastward of south,
and that the Golden Hope might at last he
headed west by north-half-north, with the
strong breeze that had been baffling her for
five days now abaft the beam.

GOOD HEADWAY.

FoRTESCUE had no idea of the change in the
weather until he came on deck, though he
might have noticed a blueish brightness on
his scuttle flashing off the dancing water.
The wind had veered at midnight, and what
the clergyman saw when he emerged through
the companion was no longer thickness, and
drizzle, and streaming decks, and small
canvas dark with damp, but a heaven of
azure, with many mountainous clouds white
as wool, one fold towering above another
with fragments of rainbow dissolving on their
eastern skirts, clouds so noble and majestic,
so snow-like in their brilliant brows, so fitted
as foils for the prismatic glories of the sunlit
iceberg, that it was as wonderful to mark
them sailing up out of the south (where in
March one fancies all the warmth lies) instead

of down from the Arctic regions, as it was
delightful to plunge the fancy into their soft
depths, to observe summits, and brows, and
eminences, the spurs of hills, the defiles and
ravines and scars, all as solid to the eye as
the substantial land, yet presently to melt and
disappear like a whiff of tobacco smoke.
These vast bodies of vapour filled the sea
with their shadows ; the water had not yet
taken the azure of the fathomless deep, but
the delicate green might well have passed fora
faint blue, and the sun shining almost
astern of the schooner would, from the edge
of every cloud that swept athwart him, firing a
dazzle over the vessel's bows, and transmute
into silver the surges which ran across the
path of her stem.

Fortescue stood gazing around him and
aloft lost in amazement that was a kind of
transport too. The last time he had seen the
Golden Hope she was a soaked and struggling
vessel ; and now ! — from the flying-jibboom
end to the end of the mainboom, from the 
to the gaff topsail, she was
literally a tower of canvas. The men had
got the staysail-booms on the yards at

-daybreak, and the sails were set — topmast
and topgallant-stunsails — so that the yards
being braced in and yet indited upwards
by the vessel's heel to the beaming, she
looked to windward to be carrying such a
weight and stretch of cloths as made Fortescue
wonder they did not overset the
slender fabric that raced beneath them.
The fresh breeze was bitterly cold, but the
flying sunshine put such joy into it that
you thought of nothing but the health of
its frosty kissing ; and it was joyous still
when the deep-bosomed clouds smote the
sun and threw their shadows upon the
schooner, for the whirling beams of the
luminary thus eclipsed were sure to keep
the waters flashing ahead, and before the
obscuration had time to make its dimness
felt, the Golden Hope had rushed into the
lighted surges again, flinging the spray aft
as far as the gangway, as though showing
her triumph and exultation in the beneficent
splendour that shone upon her once
more, and breaking from waterway to
topmast-head into a whiteness of canvas
that rivalled the glittering sleepiness of the

vaporous folds which had momentarily
darkened her beauty.

Here it is at last, sir," said Stone,
touching his cap to the clergyman. " Not
only a fair wind, as it's called ashore, but fine
weather ; almost beautiful, indeed, for I don't
know that ever I saw wonderfully clouds."

'' It does not come too soon, mr. Stone,"
exclaimed Fortescue, feeling all the freshness
and glory of the scene in his heart, though
the old sailor noticed, with a side-peep of
compassion, how pale the curate's cheeks
showed in the penetrating silver splendour
that was then showering down from a light
blue rift, and how wild and yet sad, likewise,
the brilliance that his large, dark eyes took
from the darting gleams, made his eager,
handsome, attenuated face appear. "Why,
one feels to be flying on the back of some
great sea-fowl through the air, instead of
being on the deck of a vessel."

He raised his eyes to the immense show of
canvas, from which, as he watched, in the
space of a breath almost, the shining of the
early sun flashed out of ever)- satin-like
hollow into the leeward water, over whose

smooth-backed surges it raced in a sheet of
silver, whilst the schooner turned grey in the
cloud-shadow.

I'm not going to say, Mr. Fortescue,"
said Stone, gravely, '' that there's no seabirds
as couldn't fly faster than we're a-going;
but I'd like to lay a wager that if this here
breeze kept all on blowing till we was done
with it, there's ne'er a sea-bird as the Golden
Hope wouldn't wear out and overhaul and
be too far ahead to be catched again by him,
when he was ready to make sail afresh. Eh,
Bill ?"

This was addressed to William Breeches,
able seaman, who was steering , for in the
writer as in the coaster we must not look for
the quarter-deck etiquette of big ships, inasmuch
as Jack was as good as his master in
such craft, and sometimes better, though of
course orders were obeyed as smartly and
work done as dutifully as if the discipline
was that of a man-of-war.

There's only one fowl," answered
Breeches, talking with his head turned from
those he addressed, true to the sailor's
peculiarity of appearing to notice everything

but the man he converses with and to find
'Everything Interesting but what he's saying,
"' there's only one fowl. Mr. Stone, as 'ud
-ever think of trying to beat the vessel by
flying, and that's a bird found south o' th'
Equator, commonly called the Booby."

As Mr. Fortescue had never heard of such
a bird, he supposed that Breeches meant a
joke and sought his eye that he might
reward him with a smile, but the sailor had
apparently forgotten that he had spoken,
and with a gaze levelled steadily at the
schooner's head, was grasping the tiller-rope
with an expression on his face that couldn't
have been severer had he been arguing
with a crimp. Mr. Stone, noticing the
admiration in Mr. Fortescue's face as he
leaned against the bulwark running his
eyes from the white heights to the sea and
back again, and then around the horizon,
out of which the clouds were slowly soaring
like huge, mountainous, snow-clad islands,
would not break in upon him ; being too
well pleased that the clergyman should take
his fill of the beauty of the vessel ; for
the old sailor was intimately concerned in

the selection of her, and he had his share
of vanity. Indeed, Fortescue was glad of
the privilege of being able to look without
having to converse. So far as the actual
passage to the island went, the main pleasure
he would be able to derive from it must lie
in its rapidity. There could be no beauty
of sea or sky, no silver shining of sunrise,
no ruby splendour of sunset ; if the conditions
of the spectacle were to be stagnant
water and an idle hull. His intellectual
hunger and thirst, the craving of every
imaginable instinct in him, was to sight the
island — to spring ashore — and in Agatha's
death or in her life, in her existence or in
the solitude of the rock, to learn if the issue
of his dream, so promising with its presentment
of her figure pleading and inviting, was
to prove no more than the shadow and
phantasy Mr. Clayton deemed it. Therefore,
what best delight the sea could hold for
him he felt this morning, as he watched the
spring of the buoyant and beautiful fabric
from the slant of one flickering surge to the
foaming brow of another, flinging from her
sharp bows the spray which was like a

shower of diamonds when the clouds obscured
the sun, but which became a rainbow whenever
the luminary flashed down again upon
the leaping schooner that was softly and
rhythmically swaying her lofty heights of
canvas to the regular run of the sea. So that
with the sun crawling to the southward, the
hurrying pencillings of shade in the deep
bosoms of the sails, the swift wafting of
such dimness as the interposition of a weather
leech, or the angle of the masts would dash
upon the swollen cloths, the full fabric,
leaning towards the north, with masthead
like golden spires wherever the blue opened
for them to show against, appeared to the eye
of Fortescue as if the surface upreared by
the spars were mother-o'-pearl.

But it was the exhilaration of hope coming
out of the pace, the thought that the Indian
Ocean was a measurable thing, not th limitless,
untrustworthy fancy it used to be at
Wyloe, that put a glitter into the young
clergyman's eyes when he brought them
away from the serene, azure rifts among the
clouds, and watched the merry, sparkling
throbbing of water to leeward, and the
VOL I. s

delighted heaving and luring and shearing
dance of the Golden Hope, that was indeed
like some living, feathered creature, fresh to
liberty and unable to make enough of its
wings, of the height of the sky over it, of
the mighty freedom of the deep around it,
and of the glorious music of the clear, strong
wind, to whose melodies all about her the
sails added a stirring roll as of drums. The
men had long before washed the decks down,
the wind had dried the planks, and they
glistened like sand ; in every bit of polished
breastwork or smooth surface to give back
light, rose-coloured stars flashed and faded,
sparkled and sped with the movements of
the schooner and the sailing of the sun;
from the chimney of the little caboose
the smoke of the galley fire streamed into
the hollows of the gaff-foresail; the crew
were preparing to get their breakfast; some
ducks and hens amidships quacked and
cackled. It was a picture of homely sea
life ennobled by the airy beauty in andover
it — a beauty flowing as sunlight,
musical as the wind, pure as the azure
rifts, glad as the luminous, washing waters,

and majestic as the vaporous mountains which
enrich the heavens.

Fortescue's gaze met Stone's ; the old
sailor smiled. *she don't disappoint ye, I
hope, sir ?" he said.

'' No, indeed; her speed seems magnificent.
What is it, should you say ?"

Mr. Stone gave a careless look to windward,
then a half-glance to leeward. *' Ten
knots, sir, notion under; what d'ye say, Bill?"
Breeches eased himself off the tiller-rope a
bit to take a glance astern at the wake, then
with his former air of appearing lost in
thinking of everything but his answer, said,
*' Nearer eleven, I should say."

'* It can easily be settled," exclaimed
Stone, '* Forward there! lay aft a couple of
you, my lads, and heave the log."

Two of them arrived. Harry Sawyer, a
good sample of a sailor, with long arms fit to
reach out with, and fingers like fish-hooks,
and long legs for climbing rigging without
ratlines, or for jockeying a yard-arm ; and Joe
Hall, an ordinary seaman, a nimble, little
fellow of about two-and-twenty, with grinning
eyes, rough hair, and so pliant and boneless

in his postures that he was more Hke an eel
than a man. He held the log-reel, Sawyer
the glass, and Stone hove the chip overboard.
Mr. Fortescue heard the reel rattle as it spun,
and watched Sawyer's eyes meeting in a.
squint in the sand-glass as he held it against
the sky, whilst Stone helped the chip by a
pull now and then at the line that made little
Joe Hall sway again. " Stop !" bawled
Sawyer ; and stop it was with what seemed
to Mr. Fortescue to be half-a-mile of line
towing astern. Stone groped for the knots.
'' Nearer eleven than ten, sir," said he, with
a face full of wonder and triumph, "by all

that's " He checked himself in the

presence of the clergyman, and added,
"See! here's the mark for the half; and
there's another quarter out as well. Ten and
three quarters !"

Ay," said Breeches, turning his back to
say it, " and if you was to allow another
quarter for the drag, mate, you'd be nearer
the mark yet."

Captain Hiram Weeks at this point
stepped on deck, red-eyed from a nap, and
looking peculiarly gaunt and sallow and

hollow and long in the bright morning light.
He saluted Mr. Fortescue, and instantly said,
'' What's she doing, Mr. Stone r

Ten and three quarters by the log, but
all eleven, as Bill here says, allowing' for the
drag, sir."

Let 'em talk of steam after this, Mr. Fortescue,"
said Hiram, coming to the weather
quarter with a stride, and with protruding
eyes, full of sharp, sailorly intelligence, he
overhauled the extent of canvas and the trim
of everything aloft in a flash, as it were, so
fast did he take it all in ; and then afterwards,
with the pleased expression the face of any
sort of sea captain will take when the wind is
of the right kind and all things else as they
should be, he cast his gaze around the horizon.

'' Hill !" said he. " A sail ahead there,
Mr. Stone."

Fortescue, who had been watching the
tedious operation of reeling in the log-line,
looked in the direction indicated by the
skipper, and observed a tiny, star-coloured
object hovering like the tip of a swan's wing
upon the dim, weltering blue of the sea, about
a point and a quarter on the weather bow.

** She was sighted at dawn, but she's
growed bigger since," said Mr. Stone, with
a complacency that for some moments
puzzled Mr. Fortescue, who said, —

*'A sail! Is that a ships"

"Ay, sir," answered Hiram, going to the
companion, " a ship according to law, because
it's evident she ain't propelled by
oars. But whether she's a ship according
to sailors, or only a brig, or a schooner,
there's no telling for a bit ; but only for a
bit, sir, for we're catching her up fast
enough to satisfy the impatience of a lady
who's got to open a bandbox afore she can
tell how what's inside it'll become her."

Saying which he smiled gauntly up at
Fortescue, and bawled in a hoarse note to
Johnny " to bring him his glass. When
the telescope arrived and was levelled, the
gleaming object ahead proved to be the
royal and . topgallant-sails of what the
skipper said was a big ship. "Steering the
same course as ourselves," said Captain
Hiram. "A frigate, maybe, bound to the
Mediterranean, or what's more like, a tea-wagon
going our road to the H indies. But

whatever she may prove to be, th' Hope,
Mr. Fortescue, ain't going to let her remain
a mystery long," and a mute would have
smiled to hear the bray-like laugh this
long, lean, lank and leather fellow gave ashe
rolled his eyes all over the schooner,
and chafed his hands as if he were working
to get the stains of tar out.

They went to breakfast, a snug little meal,
for Mr. Salt, who was an old hand at provisioning
ships, had so stocked the Golden
Hope that there was little Fortescue could
not get by asking, if we except appetite, the
relish that is more often found at sea than
carried there. His spirits were better than
he remembered them for months The pace
of the schooner, the bright morning, the
gladness of the sweet and frothing and
swelling ocean coming into him, had given
him a lightness of heart. Things seemed
clearer to him, also. He felt a power
of realising things more closely, yet of
diffusing his mind, too, as though a mental
mist that had hidden everything but Agatha
and what her name implied, had thinned ;
thereby not only offering him a clearer

presentment of motive and mission, but a
sight of other things as well.

This perhaps might have been evident in
the increased attention he gave to Captain
Weeks' remarks and appearance, and in the
fancies which possessed him touching the
contrast between his life at Wyloe and this.
Could Mr. Clayton but see him now ! How
utterly vanished, indeed how utterly extinguished,
by the liquid girdle of the deep,
those curtsying women, those grinning, sunburnt
countrymen, those apple-faced babies,
those bed-ridden crones, those rows of
Sunday-dressed figures he was wont to
exhort ! Oh ! Time, old Time, whilst the
wings and the scythe are thine, who in his
senses will deem that the age of miracles is
over ? The wand had been waved, and lo !
instead of a funeral, a sick parishioner, a
congregation, a confirmation class — here was'
Hiram Weeks, with his legs stuck out like
a pair of open compasses, staring with eyes,
magnified by protrusion, at every mouthful
he held up on his fork, his leathern jaws
busy with talk and mastication ; here was a
tossing interior swiftly conveying the clergyman

over miles of water, even as he sat
breakfasting, with a glassy depth of hundreds
of fathoms — for they were off *' soundings"
betwixt the keel that kept him afloat and
the bottom, whilst God knows what queer
fish were looking up with the wall-eye of the
cod or the flat squint of the dab at the ruddy
seating of the Golden Hope flashing comet-like
through the liquid firmament that overhangs
those hills and valleys of the deep,
upon which are strewn grass-covered wrecks
and the green skeletons of sailors.

The sail ahead was going to furnish some
excitement. By noon they had risen her to
her courses, when she was clearly made out
to be a large vessel under plain sail ; but by
the time the stern of her showed black
like a blot of ink under her cotton-white
canvas with the lift of the sea, Mr. Stone,
who had been watching her with attention,
from anxiety (as Mr. Fortescue saw after
a little) that she might serve to illustrate
the schooner's going power, suddenly
sang out, whilst he kept his eye at the
telescope : —

'' There goes his fore-topm'st-stunsail

By the Lord Harry, skipper, they've took
notice of us at last and mean to make a race
of it."

It was evidently what the old fellow
hoped and wanted, for he toppled about
with excitement, whilst he thrust the glass
into Mr. Fortescue's hands and begged him
to see for himself. What a 
was the clergyman had not the least
idea ; and if Mr. Stone had told him that the
stranger ahead had set his flying-jib abaft the
spanker he would, in all probability, have
simply said, "Really!" But it was not hard
for him to perceive, after a little manoeuvring
with the glass, that. the ship was a perfect
pyramid of canvas, a shining outline against
the piebald sky that way; and even as he
gazed he observed an extension of her sails
on the weather side, which, when he called
Captain Weeks' attention to it, caused the
skipper to yell out, "Mr. Stone! Mr. Stone!
all larboard-stunsails as I'm a live man, from
the royal-yard-arm to the swinging-boom! A
smart ship, Mr. Fortescue, a smart ship, sir.
Why, God bless my soul an' body ! to think
now of gear and canvas whipped aloft pretty

nigh as fast as a man can watch them doing
of it !"

You saw how the contest of speed that had
now practically begun was exciting the men,
who, at work on the jobs which are as endless
as a sailor's growling, peered and stared ahead
and dodged whatever was in their way, to get
a look, whilst the schooner snored through
it, making one long, steady, seething plunge
after another till the crowded water under
her figure-head rose in milk to the forecastle-rail.
Until after dinner — two o'clock — it was
just the breeze for her ; a good capsule fit tolet
her exhibit all she had for an occasion of
this kind, though more was on her than she
needed for sober sailing. The clouds were
then blowing in longer masses, and if here
and there one rose slow and ponderous
the skirts of it were rent ere it had fairly
lifted, and drove fast ahead in patches. Also
there was a windy dimness in the sunshine,
and the greenish hue of the sea had darkened
into a hard, wintry olive, with a quicker
melting of the heads of the surges, a swifter
run of them, and a swarming of yeasty-looking
stuff in the troughs. But at times a

puff would sing with a shrill edge in it ; it
was as though the weather could not makeup
its mind ; and at such moments every
brace and guy, every sheet, tack, shroud
and backstay was a screwed-up fiddlestick
for the wind to screech upon.

One or two of the older among the men
would cast an askant glance aloft and then at
Hiram, perhaps fearing a muddle presently.
Mr. Fortescue stood to leeward of the helm
revelling in the grand pace — it was that
now ; indeed, there was the swiftness of the
flying-fish in the mere look of the schooner
as she sprang clear of the smother about her
bows, and went with a cleaving launch down
the clear, dark, liquid green — for ignorance
rendered him fearless, and to hangers upon
the ocean everything is right till everything
is wrong. Maybe Hiram noticed this, in
which case it would help to make him obstinate
to prove the schooner's qualities to the
owner. But a glance from old Stone, whose
face was growing a bit grave, spite of a
longing to race and beat the ship ahead,
might have moved the skipper into giving
some order to diminish the strain, had not

his eye been taken by the stranger ; he
levelled the glass at her again and again, and
after throwing himself into a dozen extraordinary
postures while he worked away with
the tube, he cried out : —

*jest so! Mr. Stone, the Stripes and
Stars. Haste the ensign, if you please. If
her colour's meant for a sneer she may as
well know what she's ridicule."

The small ensign was got out of the locker
by the mate and bent to the ,
and it was funny enough to watch
Stone's slow hand-oversetting of the thin
rope, and the sort of stubborn earnestness in
his face, as he hauled the flame-like colour to
the block, and left it there stiff as a signboard.
It was as though the Golden Hope
drew an impulse from the flag. She leaned
from a sea till it was dead-eyes under with
her, following by a sweep to the height of
the next surge that darkened her forecastle
with the snow of the cloven crest, and then
by a long-drawn roll to windward that raised
a yelling aloft fit to serve as a trumpeted
answer to the Yankee's challenge.

At that moment the halliards of the 

parted, and down dropped the
sail, shaking and slatting so as to make the
boom buckle and jump to the leaping of it,
and the drawing weight of the lower stunsall.
Stone sprang forward, and Captain Weeks
rattled out half-a-dozen orders. Presently
the sail was got on deck, and the topgallant
and lower stunsalls taken in ; but the puff
that had done the business of the stunsalls
was quickly followed by another and another,
and under a steadily Increasing weight of wind
the little schooner stormed through the sea,
rising to the lifting of her great square sail as
if she had a mind to fly bodily into the air.

"If it's going to last like this, capt'n," said
Stone, *' we shall have to wait for a smoother
chance to show Mr. Fortescue what a writer
can do. No use, sir," said he, addressing
the clergyman, 'looking at a boy and feeling'
disappointed because his legs ain't as a
man's."

'rit's as Mr. Stone says," observed the
skipper, rubbing the object glass of the
telescope for another stare at the ship,
yonder's a clipper, and taking the weather
as it is, there's notion afloat of our tonnage

:and rig that's going' to show her the road.
But perhaps it ain't all over with us yet,"
said he, with a grim, half-mortified roll
of his eyes to windward ; then, pointing
the glass, "Ah, all in but her .
She's drawn' ahead — she's bound
to do it !" He closed the tube violently, and
said, '* Down gaff-topsail, Mr. Stone ; no use
making her drag what she won't carry."
Then presently, " Main topmast-staysail !"
delivered with a sulkier note yet in the roar
of the order.

The freshening of the wind might have
passed for the rush of a squall if it hadn't
been for the blue sky and the white clouds
flying over it, though to the westwards of
south there was a sort of shadow that seemed
nothing but haze till you found you could see
through it.

Hiram pulled the glass into focus and took
another jealous look, ''Ho! in topmast-staysail,
hey !" said he, talking aloud to the ship,
and speaking in a fine, sneering voice,
** What's alarming of ye. mate ? Couldn't you
have held on with that sail a bit longer ?
Condescending to give us the go-by with

notion but royal, are you ? Airs !" he
exclaimed, turning to Mr. Fortescue. *' I'll
tell you what it is, sir ; the cheek of them big
ships is something that just wants thrashing
out of 'em."

No matter if he outsails us," answered
Fortescue, smiling, amused and pleased by
the anxiety of the two men that he should
see how fast the schooner could sail. Then,
whilst his eye followed the rich, creaming
white of the wake that seemed like a serpent
to be chasing the Golden Hope with its
sinuous snowy folds, he exclaimed, with a
sudden gravity, '* If we could only keep up
this speed — never bating it ! never bating it!"

'' Why, yes, sartine ; it ud be a good
job if we could, no doubt," replied Hiram.
x\Ir. Stone, better haul down that ensign.
But, for proper sailing, Mr. Fortescue, we
don't want any more wind that'll allow the
schooner to wear all the cloths that belongs
to her. Think of th' Hope as a
young lady, sir. What's the good of tells
laying out money in feathers and gowns
which trail a fathom astern of their heels,
if they're to appear out of door in the

nat'ral hair, and with their dresses triced
up till ye can see where the tops of their
boots come ? D'ye observe my meaning,
sir? It's a allegory, of course."

Mr. Fortescue nodded, for his voice
hadn't the power of Hiram's, and it needed
all the skipper's lungs to make his words
distinct above the noise. In a big ship
the motion is slow, the sea is some distance
down, and the sails are high overhead.
There are plenty of things to get
under the lee of so as to make a chat
even in a heavy gale possible. But in a
schooner of ninety tons, with the ringing,
hissing and washing of water close alongside,
talk is not easy above-aboard ; the
wind comes in thunder down out of the
hollow mainsail, the jumping is fast and
furious ; there is a dismal, wet, clattering of
rope upon rope, with the splash of water
forward and a howling as of dogs aloft
when the yards bring their arms fiercely
to windward, stabbing the breeze, whilst
every surge sweeping along the bends
gives forth a sullen, roaring noise. But
though the ship ahead was leaving the

VOL. I. T

schooner she was in no sense walking away
from her. What was wind to the one was
wind to the other, and she had clewed her
royal up when the Golden Hope was still
carrying her topgallant-sail and flying-jib.

THE SCHOONER PASSES THE YANKEE.

Too much of deck, however, when it was
blowing fresh with the nip of March in the
atmosphere and the damp of spray in the
strong wind, Mr. Fortescue was not yet
seasoned enough to stand. So he went
below for warmth and shelter, but had not
been in the cabin ten minutes when he heard
the singing out of men shortening sail, and
after a little, down came old Stone.

He may have meant to take a snooze till
eight bells, but perhaps he felt that a pipe of
tobacco would do him more good, and as
there was no objection to this, for Fortescue
smoked as freely as the others, he pulled a
piece of flat wood out of one of the lockers,
and putting it on the table and fixing his
spectacles upon his nose, he proceeded,
slowly and with an air of laboriousness, to

cut some shavings from a plug of tobacco,,
meanwhile addressing the curate.

'' Just eased her of the t'pgal'ns'l and flying-jib,
and it'll be down square sail afore long,
sir. No use spurring a willing horse, as the
saying is. It looks as if it was coming on to
blow, which is a disappointment, certainly, as
I was reckoning this morning on the satisfaction
this schooner 'ud give you by passing
the American vessel."

Coming on to blow ! Don't you consider
that it is blowing already ? " exclaimed
Fortescue, who, landsman as he was, could
distinctly feel the gathering weight in the
wind by the deeper plunges of th j schooner
on the stormier rolling of the seas.

*' Why, yes, it's blowing, no doubt,"
answered Stone, lighting his pipe, with his
head on one side, and sucking at the sooty
stem till the glow of the bowl caused the skin
of his nose to shine like a ruby, 'but this
here, Mr. Fortescue," said he, slowly setting
himself near the stove, and facing the curate,
"is a wind with nothing noticeable in it, as
yet. If it comes on westerly with strength,
we may be able to show the Yankee what aa

English writer can do. It hasn't been nice
weather for ye, sir, taking it all through from
the start. I was afeared you'd feel the
motion of a vessel of this size, and I should
have been glad of a week of smooth till you
got used to the Golden Hope. Yet you're
standing it uncommonly well, uncommonly
well, indeed. If they could see you down
at that little village of yours they'd say
the sea was going' to give you all you expected
of it."

"If I could be sure of that, Mr. Stone!"
exclaimed Fortescue, clasping his hands with
a passionate, prayerful eagerness, that the old
sailor put down to professional habit.

"Well, since it is health as well as other
matters, sir," said Stone, puffing leisurely,
with his eyes respectfully fixed upon the
clergyman, "there's promise enough already in
your face to warrant that all will come right
by'n bye. Of course, it's a good bit yet to the
island, and then there's all the way back
again." He squeezed the tobacco in the bowl
of his pipe with his little finger, and said,
*' I hope you won't consider it a liberty, Mr.
Fortescue, if I ask you what put it into your

head to suppose that there's any persons
belonging to the Indiaman on that island I
was cast away upon ? Captain Weeks was
a-talkin' to me about it, and he said it wasn't
likely you'd buy this vessel and undertake a
long voyage on the mere chance of — of —
finding the young lady an' your friends near
to where the ship went down — that's to say
pretty near. He says to me, ' Stone,' he
says, 'you may depend upon it that you did
not understand what the gent told you down
at Wyloe. If it ain't a question of health, it
ain't a question of an expensive voyage of
seven or eight months on speculation. If
you'll speak to Mr. Fortescue again — for the
occasion of this voyage is more your job than
mine — you'll find out that he's got information
about the parties being on that island of
your, and that you didn't correctly take in
his meaning when you and him was a-yarning
down in the little village.' "

I quite remember what I said to you,"
answered Fortescue, speaking very nervously.
*' One who was dear to me was in the
Merula when she was lost. I had learnt
that there was an island at no great distance

from where the ship foundered, and in the
hope that the lady and others might have
reached it, I determined to satisfy my mind
by visiting it."

I again humbly beg your pardon," exclaimed
Stone, accentuating his respectfulness
by way of excusing an inquisitiveness he
could not restrain, *but if you knew the

island was there " He stopped, not liking

to finish the sentence by so blunt a question
as, *why did you advertise a reward for
its discovery ?"

Fortescue understood him. "1 wanted to
make sure," he briefly replied, but with the
uneasiness of a high conscience to whom
half-truths are as bad as lies.

"What Captain Weeks was a-saying,"
continued Stone, not finding much to understand
in the curate's answer, *' was, that if
this 'ere voyage was made only for your
health, and I can't get him to look at it
in any other light, he could recommend a
cruise that 'ud last all eight months, if so
be you would care for such a spell, which
might be made entertaining and instructive ;
for you could go to the West H indies and

to South Amerlky, and then have a look at
the Mediterranean when homeward bound,
and so on. In which case you might earn
money by taking cargoes. But there's notion
to be done in that way in the island ; very
little to see, notion to interest a man, no one
to traffic with."

A look of alarm darkened Fortescue's face.
It was like the convulsive twist a spasm of
the heart gives the features. After a little,
he said, " I have not yet had a downright
talk with Captain Weeks about this voyage —
its object, I mean, as it was originally planned
between you and me — and I left him to gather
its purport from you and Mr. Salt ; but, as
you say he cannot make up his mind to
believe that we are journeying all the way to
the Indian Ocean on the mere chance of
finding my friends on an island there, he
concludes that my chief, perhaps my only,
motive is health ?"

That's about it, sir, because he considers
I didn't rightly understand your ideas in
seeking that there island."

'' But he knows where that island is r said
Fortescue, sharply, with the glow of the stove

"bright in the gaze he fixed upon the old
seaman.

The lustrousness of the clergyman's black
eyes gave an ashen hue to his features, and
there was something in this contrast that
caused Stone to say quickly, " Of course he
do, as near as I could give it, sir."

Folding his arms, Fortescue sat without
speaking, looking at the fire in the stove,
whilst fearing that he had said too much.
Stone watched him furtively, not liking to
speak. It was a strange, even wild picture.
The dim light and the fire-shine put the
wildness Into it, and this element deepened
yet by the stormy sounds outside, the
trembling of the plunging schooner, the
phantom face of the curate, white as a
woman's, despite the crimson tinge of the
stove, and by the burly form of Stone
watching him. Presently the old sailor
began to nod ; he then lay along the locker
with his shoulder against the side, and fell
asleep.

There was a brief but bitter conflict of
thought in Fortescue. Was it possible that
-Stone had deceived him ? Yet, how was that

to be reconciled with his refusal to take the
reward of one hundred guineas until the
clergyman had seen the island with his own
eyes ? But since this reward was to follow
verification, and since Stone knew he could
depend upon getting it, as the money had
been lodged in Mr. Skinner's hands, why had
he repeated the suggestions of the captain
touching a cruise to the West Indies and
elsewhere ? For he might easily guess that if
the motive of the voyage was dismissed, his
hundred guineas would go with it. Mr. Fortescue's
highly nervous condition rendered
him suspicious. He could not question
Stone's sincerity, nor imagine so plain,
rugged, and simple a sailor to be capable of
acting the sympathy and respectful interest
he had exhibited throughout. To what, then,
did his fears point ? To this. That Stone
and Weeks had talked the voyage over, and
had come to the conclusion that the clergyman
was scarcely sufficiently responsible,
mentally, owing to the desperate grief
occasioned him by the burning of the
Merula, to decide upon the long journey
he had begun. Or it might be that Mr. Salt,

out of pure tenderness for him, had asked
Weeks and Stone to endeavour to dissuade
him from a voyage that seemed to promise
nothing but keen disappointment, and hence
the suggestion concerning the West Indies
and South America. Be the truth what it
would, he felt that ere long, not for conscience'
sake only, but in the hope that the sympathies
of the seamen might find definiteness for the
voyage in his confession, he must tell them
the cause that prompted him to this undertaking.
They might secretly deride him, or
they might be impressed. He must take his
chance. For the condition of his mind was
such that it made him fear they would think
him "wanting" if he left them to suppose
that this long and costly voyage was adventured
on no sounder ground than a hope that
would seem mere craziness to the practical
mind.

But fortunately Fortescue was at sea ; the
best place in the world for nerves and
bubbling brains, and a remedy better than a
soothing mixture came to him whilst he thus
sat labouring as heavily amid thought as the
Golden Hope was among the billows, in

the shape of Hiram's large foot upon the
companion-ladder, followed by his husky
shout of " Below there, Mr. Stone, eight
bells, if you please."

** Ay, ay, sir !" bawled Stone in reply, talking
to Hiram's foot.

'weather looks dirty, Bill," said the skipper,
shouting down the steps ; "the men mayas
well snug her a trifle whilst they're all on
deck."

The foot disappeared. Stone pulled his
cap on and mounted the ladder, and Fortescue
followed, more for the sake of seeing
anything that should divert his mind than
for love of the stormy weather above.

On emerging from that little cabin you
would have thought it was blowing as hard
again as it was from the mere appearance of
the heavens. It was cloud after cloud in
wild pursuit ; a mixture of wintry scud-like
smoke and large and small bodies of vapour
all flying down the sky in the direction where
England lay, long leagues distant now. The
sun was not yet near his setting, but hung
in a sort of misty whirling in the west, where
the pink haze was like tinted steam, churned

and set revolving into a boiling appearance
by the spokes of fire which swung from sea-line
to sea-line as the clouds drove over the
luminary, eclipsing the orb, but carrying his
beams in their flight. The shadow in the
south-west had won the wind to it, and then
hardened into clouds; and the shift had given
the schooner a bow sea and flattened sheets
which naturally made the weather seem
almost fierce to Fortescue, for it was like a
tilting match 'twixt it and the schooner, one
running at the other.

Stone stared to see so much canvas, and
Fortescue, crouching under the weather
bulwarks, forgot everything in marking the
savage aspect the dark-green sea took from
the red tinge overhead, in noticing the angle
of the decks going down into the lee smother
till nothing but the storm of wind under the
foresail and mainsail stopped the yellow
spume from tumbling on board over the
rail in huge flakes, the mad dives of the
pressed fabric till you couldn't see her forward
for the foam over the forecastle-head,
the lull in the trough, then the skyward
leap with her spars plumb with the kelson

as she came to windward on the crest, ere
burying her channels again for her long
hissing plunge down the slant of the Atlantic
surge.

'Hiram stood abaft the weather main-rigging.
He had the composed expression
of an experienced exhibitor who knows his
beast and is calm in the presence of antics
that seem dangerous, but he extended his
capacious mouth in a wide grin that exposed
an odd collection of fangs when, on
meeting Stone's eye, he pointed with a long
hand right ahead to where just a phantom
smudge was discernible, as a sea hove the
schooner high.

Still got the scent of her, Mr. Fortescue,"
he roared to the curate, who tried to
see, but was blinded by wind and spray
whenever he lifted his head above the
bulwark.

The crew were crouching on the weather
side, sitting in the coils of running-gear,
hanging upon pins, or holding-on to whatever
their fingers could come at whilst they
waited for orders. It was a moment of
triumph for Hiram. He'd have sprung a

mast or blown away a whole sail sooner
than have missed the chance of pointing to
the Yankee that was still in sight, before
shortening canvas. But concluding the

vessel had been seen by Fortescue, and
satisfied to have put some astonishment
into the face of old Stone, whose past
experience of the sea and long spell ashore
rendered him a person worthy of surprising,
Hiram promptly went to business.

Down square sail I"

The great stretch of canvas was hauled
down with difficulty ; it was full of wind, and
took as much smothering as a whole topsail
with the yard on the cap and the gale on the
quarter.

Reef the mainsail !"

'* Two reefs whilst you are about it !"

'take a reef in the duke." The duke
was the foresail.

This was done, and the port or larboard
watch sent below. The schooner, greatly
eased, rose buoyantly to the surges, and
made the better weather of it, as a well-treated
craft will if her builder has done
his duty. The touch of winter Atlantic

weather was rendered the grander by the
coarse and dingy flaring of the sun as he
sunk lower westwards, with the tall seas
sliding darker and darker athwart his hawse ;
at long intervals there would come a leap
of light over some smoky edge like a lift
of flame out of a smouldering mass, that
flung upon the west, down to the horizon, a
deeper flush of hazy red, against which the
froth of every melting head that way came
out in a hard, white glare. Then it was a
scene of wildness, indeed, when you watched
this misty outburst of coarse radiance sweeping
over the deep, without the least lightening
or darkening of its colour. It was like the
stare of some angry, blood-red eye up among
the clouds. But the ocean-picture grew truer
to the season when the clouds smote and
extinguished this troubled lustre, and left
the freckled troughs and the steady running
heights to welter under the pelting vapour •
that the wind was chasing over the reeling
masthead of the Golden Hope.

'' Mr. Stone," sung out Hiram, by-and-bye,
"get a reef taken in that fore-topsail afore
you go to supper. She'll do very comfortably,

Mr. Fortescue, under that," and he ran
his eyes aloft, as though he reckoned that the
curate was taking it all in and was satisfied
with the snugness, the speed and the general
effect. ''Ah," said he, swinging his arms
upon his chest to warm them, and then
squatting down near Fortescue to talk,
*' Maybe you have taken notice that the
wind's drawer ahead since you were on

deck r

The clergyman replied that he had not
observed the circumstance.

'estrange," remarked the skipper, "that
what's so obvious to the nautical eye ain't
always perceived by gents not accustomed to
the ways of the ocean. The lay of them
yards," said he, pointing forwards, "would
tell you how the wind's acted without obliging
you to notice how much end there is of the
mainsheet on deck, nor how the boom lies.
As our course is, the breeze is one point free ;
if we was in a ship, I tell yer, the yards 'ud
be jammed again' the lee shrouds and the
weather leeches lifting'. So," said he, with
another prodigious grin, and a shake of his
fist towards the bows, " if we don't overhaul
VOL. I. u

that there Yankee before tomorrow's dawn,
you shall persuade me, Mr. Fortescue, that
that wane there at the masthead's a chimneys


It was plain that Hiram had the Yankee
on the brain for the time, and the clergyman
could not help thinking that the man's belief
in the qualities of the schooner and the
manner in which he suffered his mind to be
engrossed by the wish to prove her heels and
beat the American, expressed a very simple
nature, something to be accepted as genuine
so far as it went ; nor was it without a sense
of self-rebuke that he cast his eyes towards
the square, round-backed, old seaman-like
figure of Stone, and recalled the misgivings
that had distressed him in the cabin.

The wind freshened yet after sundown and
it was as black as thunder till about nine
o'clock, when the moon rose and put a sort of
faintness into the atmosphere, for light it
could not be called, at which hour it was
blowing heavily and a wild sea running. But,
determined to go ahead, Captain Weeks had
treble-reefed the mainsail, under which, along
with close-reefed foresail and jib, the Golden

Hope was watching through it, her forecastle
smothered, and the water up to a man's waist
in the lee-scuppers. It was a dry gale, spite
of the clouds, whose velocity made the moon
look to spin, till you would have thought that
the earth had escaped the power that controlled
its revolutions and was twirling madly
to God knows where. In the rigging it was
one long, ear-piercing yelling, as of a thousand
voices pitched from the deepest bass to
the shrillest treble ; the water broke in dense
volumes of smoke over the schooner, and if
ever the moon darted a clearer ray, the wet
decks gave back a gleam as of ice to the
momentary flash, which glittered in the oilskins
of the watch crouching aft, and brought
out the marble-like face of the helmsman
swinging at the tiller, and Stone, like a
statue, with his arm round a belaying pin.
But the greenish streaming was swifter than
blinking the eye, the clouds swept over the
luminary as from a factory chimney, and the
crew turned black in the shadow, though a
sheen swayed about the flooded planks, and
the canvas reeled dim in the darkness.
Weeks was in bed when Fortescue thought

he would Step on deck and take a look
around. It was miserable enough below,
certainly. The cabin was as vile with movement
as a smack's in a North Sea gale.
There was nothing to be had from the
caboose, and for the tea and hot grog Johnny
had to boil the kettle on the cabin stove.
Indeed, the violence of the schooner's motions-would
have alarmed the clergyman if it
hadn't been for Hiram's earnest reassurances
ere he withdrew to his bunk for a short spell
of sleep.

Yet, when he managed to crawl half
through the hatch, he could not help feeling
startled and dismayed by the picture
he beheld. There would have been a more
rhythmic, a more regular measure in the
schooner's movements had she been hove-to,
hard as it was to stop a writer even when
in that situation ; but she was '' watching" —
sailing along — the wind about a point free,
and consequently complicating the natural
oscillation given her by the regular swinging
rise and fall of the dark seas, by wild springs,
fierce burying of her head, a gull-like soaring
out of the boiling stuff about her bows, and

giddy rushing down the watery steeps,
which caused Fortescue to think some of
the dives she made were for good and all.
Besides, there was the wide, wild, whirling
heavens, the racing moon dimming and
brightening as the rolls of vapour were
dense or thin, the thunder of smiting and
smitten waters, the whistling and screeching
in the rigging, the shouting in the canvas,
the bullet-like singing of the spray torn up
from the windward surges and swept, in
storms that stung as hail would, past the ear.

Stone came sliding and sprawling down
to the companion, guessing the curate needed
a sailor's cheering.

'trifle blustering', sir !" he shouted, "but
if the schooner's a bit frisky, she's sailing
straight and she's sailing fast, two obligations
upon her which she's a real sweetheart
for remembering of."

Conversation was out of the question, but
the mate's observation was well said, for the
sense that the Golden Hope was ceaselessly
speeding towards the island of his vision,
neutralised in Mr. Fortescue the alarm that
had been excited by the sea and sky of that

wan and warring night. He lingered a few
moments until a great lump of water, rolling
over the forecastle, came washing aft. This
rendered the partial closing of the hatch
necessary, so bidding stone good-night, the
curate descended into the cabin and withdrew
to his little room.

By this time he was fairly accustomed to the
straining noises made by the schooner when
labouring ; but for a good while he was kept
awake by the close and thunderous sound of
the sea striking against the weather side of
the vessel. It grew monotonous after a bit,
for though there was no regularity in the
Golden Hope's pitching and rolling, yet the
thump of the surge was almost pendulum-like.

He always knew how it would be. First, a
wild, staggering hesitancy, then a plunge,
then the blow of the sea against the bends,
the long lean over, the quick, shrieking
recovery, the short hang on the brow, then
another plunge, followed by the blow, and
so on, and so on, with a squeak in every
treenail, a groan in every timber, a harsh
straining of bulkhead, and bracket-lamp and
coats and the like swinging to and fro,.

scraping against the side, or hanging far outwith
the heavier lurches. There were notes
and sounds for the poor fellow to set his
thoughts to. Hark to that mushed, seething
roll of heavy waters cannonading along the
run and roaring past the screwed-up scuttle
near him ! How often had Agatha heard the
tempestuous sound when the gale had dashed
the billows of the great Indian Ocean against
the coral reefs of the island ? Hear the fierce
and strange shouting coming down from the
rigging with loss of their shrill edge as they
pierced the deck ! The sweeping of the hot
blasts, the muttering of the fiery gusts would
often have been heard by Agatha under the
midnight stars. Then, when he thought of
her listening, he would ask himself would she
be always unsheltered? Had those who were
saved with her built them a hut? How, by
this time, would she be attired, lacking all
things but the apparel in which she was
cast ashore ?

You who know that this man believed his
dream to be a whisper in his sleeping ear
from God, you who know that, whether with
perfect sanity or with a mind disordered by

grief, he was sailing for the island in full
conviction that he should find Agatha Fox
there, you may conceive what desperate
imaginings of his darling's forlornness, her
dreadful plight, her sufferings of houselessness,
homelessness and friendlessness, his
mind would be led into when he thought of
the bleak and rolling ocean, the flying smoke
of clouds, the whirling of the cold, green
moon, the storming of roaring surges against
the schooner, and the bitterness of the atmosphere
that even in his cabin sent shudder
after shudder through him as he hugged the
bedclothes to him, with a frequent start when
a wilder plunge of the vessel filled her forward
deck with boiling and pounding water.
At last he fell asleep, but in his slumber he
sobbed often and talked aloud. Doubtless
he dreamt of Agatha, and it was natural that
whatever came to him in his sleep should
have the trouble and distress of the windy,
flying night in it ; at least, one would say, it
must differ from the dreams he had of her at
Wyloe, when all was still, the stars as peaceful
as the dew-drops they glistened in, no
movement in the trees, no sound in the air, if

It were not the timid chirrup of an awakened
bird, or the indescribable, ghost-like murmur
the surf will send far inland ; for in such
dreams he would often smile, and start from
his sleep with a speech of love, to find that
his hands had clasped fingers more shadowy
than shadows, and that the adored form that
had been seated at his pillow was real only as
memory is.

But at sea it is nearly all downright prose.
Mr. Fortescue was not a mariner, but he
could not own a vessel and be aboard her
without a taste of the plain peculiarities of
the sea-life. Hence from dreams of Agatha
he was aroused by a smart knocking on his
cabin door, and on asking what was the
matter, Captain Hiram Weeks walked in.

Mr. Fortescue, it's just past th' half hour,
sir, or I shouldn't ha' taken the liberty. It's
daylight, an' ye'll see it fine. Sir, if excuses
are needful for calling' of you, plenty of 'em
shall follow if ye ain't satisfied, But I beg
you to bear a hand, for sights at sea are
swallowed up with astonishing speed."

So saying, he closed the door, whilst
Fortescue, who was always quick at waking,

and who was therefore able to grasp that
he was instantly required on deck, rapidly
clothed himself and hastened above. It was
still blowing heavily, and a very high sea
was running ; it was bitterly cold, too, but
clear, if it were not for the haze of spray
blown low and along by the wind. It is no
joke to a landsman to come fresh from the
shelter of a cabin and the warmth of a bed
into bleak and streaming decks and half a
gale of wind, and for some moments the
curate stood almost stifled with the pouring
blast, and dazed by the cold and the wildness
of the scene, till Hiram helped him fair
on deck, closing the companion, and then
carrying him to the shelter of the weather
bulwark.

There, sir ! Look !" shouted the skipper,
pointing fair abeam to leeward.

A gaunt man is always faintest in the
morning watch at sea ; and, as Hiram stood
pointing, clad from head to foot as he was in
oilskin, the leathern, long, hollow face, framed
in an old and narrow, thatched south-western
might have been a skull covered with parchment.
An odder picture there never was-than

that made by this tall, lank figure, holding
to the rail with one hand and pointing with
the other to leeward, where the backs of the
grey surges ran smooth and marbled under
the showering of their own spray.

Mr. Fortescue squeezed the water out of
his eyes and looked in the direction indicated,
and saw, not above half a mile distant, a big,
black ship under close-reefed topsails, reefed
foresail and fore-topmast-staysail, heeled over
till the grass-green sheathing showed, you
would have thought, to the bilge strake.

'' Now, Mr. Fortescue," cried the skipper
in a voice as hoarse as a raven's, through the
exultation and pride in it, "see now the
difference 'twixt a writer and a clipper ship 1
It's the Yankee, sir; him as we sighted
yesterday and who dropped us. So help me
Bob, sir," he cried, bringing his hand with a
whack upon his thigh, by way of emphasising
the word Bob, " if that there ship to leeward
watching' under close-reefed torps'ls ain't the
very identical Yankee as sneered at us yesterday
with his Stripes and his Stars. Tim,,
tell the gent — is it the Yankee or ain't it ?"

Thus addressed, the able seaman. Tim

Duck, who was at the tiller, himself clad in
yellow oilskin, which the wind got into and
swelled out to an aspect of dropsy in the
last stage — looked at the ship and then at
Fortescue and said, "Ay, she's the Yankee,
right enough."

It was a fine sight to behold the extravagantly
delighted gaze Hiram fixed upon
the clergyman. Had he won the schooner
on a wager, the extraordinary satisfaction
he exhibited could not have been more
striking. The recollection of it, and of
the man's whole appearance at that moment,
entered afterwards into Fortescue's remembrance
of the incident, but, only just awake,
half-stunned by the roaring of the gale,
and half-frozen by the spray-laden, flashing
wind, it was as much as he could then do
to look where he was bidden. The small
ensign was tearing like a flame at the
schooner's peak-signal-halliards, but there
was no response to it aboard the American.
A beautiful ship she was, moulded to perfection
of finish in lines, as was easily seen
from the windward side of her ; a square
stern, a fiddle figure-head, a knife-like cut-melancholy

it all was, though grand and
with wildness in it, too. Whether in storm
or in calm, the ocean in northern or southern
latitudes, where the sun rises tardily in the

wake of the dawn, is always sad at daybreak.
The shadow of the night seemed to Anger
in the ashen pouring of the waves swelling
from the windward horizon ; the sky was
grey and the clouds were rushing in processions
of vapour ; whenever a sea poured
its whiteness into a valley, the expiring foam
swung up the acclivities with a ghastliness of
hue that was as unlike the pallid froth under
moonshine or the shining snow of the surges
under the fuller day, as the colour of the
leper is unlike the complexion of the healthy
skin. The desolateness of daybreak, the
cheerlessness and melancholy of it, were in
all things ; in the damp, dark pUnks of the
schooner with the scuppers bubbling ; in the
spray-shadowed cloths which strained, wet
and full, from gaff and sheet ; in the still
and glistening figures of the men on deck,
crouched aft and watching the American ;
in every upheaval of crystalline smoke from
the swift chop and shearing blow of the
writer's stem. Yet the grace of the leeward
ship stole like a kind of warmth into the
early morn. There was life in her, and beauty.
You saw the helmsman, when she came to

J^J

windward, stiff at the wheel, deigning no
notice of the schooner watching past ; the
officer of the watch at the mizzen rigging ;
a head or two over the rail abreast of the
foremast ; and the blowing of smoke from
the freshly-lighted fire. But the Golden
Hope was to have her way of her. It was
part of Hiram's triumph that he should have
hung in the Yankee's wake all night and
guessed her leeway so as to bring the vessels
at dawn abreast of one another, with the
wind a point free for the schooner, whilst
the ship lay jammed to her course.

Johnny !" he roared, " stand by to dip the

ensign !'

And when the ship was brought fair on the
quarter, the lad who had been called made
the schooner bid her an ironical adieu by
three times lowering and hoisting the flag,
the last time hauling it down for good.

Now I'm satisfied," cried Hiram, rubbing
his hands and grinning down on Fortescue.
*' Speed's what you wanted, sir, and here it
is, dragged out o' the heart of a gale o' wind.
After this example of what your vessel can
•do, Mr. Fortescue, me and Stonewall be able

to feel that the 'sensibility we took in
recommending th' Hope Isn't exceeded by
the confidence we had in her. If apologies

is necessary for rousing of you up " But

Fortescue checked him by a wave of the
hand.

END OF FIRST VOLUME.

TILLOTSON AND SON, PRINTERS, BOLTON.



OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

82.3
R9U

VOL. II

A ROMANCE OF THE DEEP

W. CLARK RUSSELL

Al'THOR OF

A ?E A QUEEN," " THE WRECK OF THE Grosvenor," ''' A SAILORS SWEETHEART.

ETC ETC.

I had a dream which was not all a dream"

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II

LONDON

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET



All Rights Reserved

TILLOTSON AND SON, MAWDSLEY STREET

BOLTON,

vex

CONTENTS

THE SECOND VOLUME

CHAPTER I .

CONFIDENTIAL.

For a whole week after this the Golden
Hope was bothered by bad weather ; once
it blew so hard for some hours that, though
nothing could induce Hiram to heave her to,
he was forced to bend a trysail in place of the
close-reefed mainsail and to drive the schooner
into it with her main-boom lashed on the lee
quarter. Yet, at the expiration of a fortnight,
dating from her departure from Gravesend,
she had reached the parallel of forty degrees
north latitude, and here the foul weather went
away and left her with a light wind blowing

VOL. II. B

over her port beam, and a blue sky and a
blue sea, with the long Atlantic swell flashing
to the sun.

It had been a desperately trying time for
Fortescue. The companion was kept closed,
and he had been half-stifled in the cabin ; yet,
when he came on deck, the wind and rain and
wet soon drove him below again. Wanting
the cast-iron lungs of his companions, he had
to give up talking, through sheer incapacity
to make his voice sound above the general
uproar. One misery alone he had the good
fortune to escape, and that was sea-sickness.
Yet this fortnight of thickness and gales did
more to make a sailor of him than a couple of
months of fine weather would have done. He
felt it when the stormy time was over and he
stretched his legs upon the dry, white decks.
He hardly noticed the wide heave of the swell
brimming to the channels, though a fortnight
before he could not have stood upright to it
without holding on. There was a warmth in
the sun, too, that promised him a brown face
before long ; yet, nothing could even faintly
gladden him this side the island he was bound
to, except swiftness of sailing — it was always

CONFIDENTIAL. 3

the wake he looked at to see how long it was,
and on the morning of the break of weather,
when he came on deck, the furrow astern
swung sparkling to his gaze till it died out in
blue distance, for the Golden Hope was once
more "walking." Hiram had finished what
Stone had begun ; and the schooner was
packed to the trucks, stun sails set, and passing
a deep hermaphrodite brig to windward
as if she had been a buoy.

The mate was below, the skipper had
charge, and Fortescue joined him in a few
turns before breakfast.

11 Nice morning, sir. It's come on proper
weather at last, and I hope it'll stop so, I'm
sure. It wasn't worth while saying anything
at the time, but I felt for ye, Mr. Fortescue,
I assure you. A schooner ain't like an
Indieman twenty foot high out of water.
Wallowing's all very well for them that's
seasoned, but I'm not one of those fools of
sailors — chaps too nautical by a long chalk —
who wonder that new comers shouldn't feel
as comfortable as they themselves do at sea ;
just as if they hadn't had a beginning."

Such a day as this is all the more delightful

for what preceeded it, captain," answered
Mr. Fortescue, looking with interest at the
clean, almost yacht-like appearance of the
schooner, her sails white and full, her fine
sand-coloured length of flush-deck, brass-work
flashing in stars ; and Kitt, a middle-aged
seaman, quietly steering, added a peaceful
detail to the pleasant homely picture by
his old-world costume of a jacket over a
blue shirt. " Whereabouts are we now ?"

* Well, I'll tell ye, sir; if we was to head
the vessel due east we'd run the Portugal
coast down ; whilst if we was to steer a trifle
to the southward of west we'd be heaving the
Western Islands into view."

The mightiness of the ocean was a more
compassable thing to the curate on this fine,
clear morning than ever it had seemed to
him when it was rolling, livid and foaming
and obscured ; and Weeks' mere naming of
the Portugal coast and the Azores sent the
clergyman's eyes wandering to the dark-blue
girdle whilst he thought of the wonderful
lands which lay behind it on all sides — shores
of coral, blue mountains lifting mantles of
snow to the tropical sun, plains classic

with decaying stone and marble memorials
of vanished cities whose glory and splendour
were recited in the languages of India, of
Greece and of Italy, sands glaring under the
brassy sky with their hordes of chocolate-coloured
men — why. such magic is there in
sound, that the mere utterance of the words
Western Islands" seemed to fill the soft,
warm breeze with the fragrance of the orange-grove
and the perfume of the lime.

It is astonishing," said Mr. Fortescue,
"to reflect that by the mere shifting of that
tiller there we can be carried from sight toto
sight, from wonder to beauty, from beauty
to desolation."

11 Why." exclaimed Captain Hiram, " 'taint
to be done altogether by shifting the helm.
The course has to be found out by staring
through a sextant. Then there's dead
reckoning', and there's currents, along with
winds which it's your business to make
serviceable, no matter how they blow. 'Ain't
only shifting the helm, though I allow you
couldn't manage without the tiller," he added,
evidently too jealous of the dignity of his
calling and of his professional skill, to permit

the clergyman to fancy that the ocean was to
be navigated by the rudder and nothing else.

Of course ; I only used the expression asa
form of speech," said Mr. Fortescue, with
the light smile instantly fading. Then, after
a pause : "Did I understand you to say,
captain, that you have what you termed
Stone's Island marked down on your chart
of the Indian Ocean?"

I have the latitude and longitude as he
gave it to me, sir; that's all that's necessary."

Has he ever spoken to you about his
shipwreck on it ?"

Oh, yes, more nor once. I never knew
a sailor cast away for notion. He'll always
get his whack o' jaw out of it, if no more. I
never was cast away, so what I'm to talk
about when I gets old I don't know. But it
was lucky for Bill — I mean Mr. Stone — that
that there schooner he tells of should have
hulled his snow. For if she hadn't foundered
he never could have known anything 'bout
this island, in which case, sir, it's modern
likely ye might have advertised for the next
twenty year without finding a man capable
of saying he knew where that island was.

We'd have got plenty o' lies, no doubt ; but
not the truth."

Of course," said Mr. Fortescue, nervously,
" you do not suppose that Mr. Stone
has made a mistake — confused the island I
want with the one he was wrecked on ?"

Bill's an honest man, sir, from the heel of
his boot to where his hair once growed. Xo !
If Bill had any doubt, he'd have told yer.
He was too much wrecked to make a horror.
He said to me that when he saw your drawn*
it gave him a tarn. 'Twas the island itself.
He couldn't ha' drawer it half as true.
Bill," he continued, returning from the side
to which he had stepped in order to expectorate,
" is a good sailor. He's a bit old, but
he's sound. There's notion of the play-going*
bamfoozling in him. He's a steady, 'spectacle,
and, in my 'pinion, a pious sailor. You'll
not hear a heath come out of his mouth,
and if he ain't regular at his prayers, Mr.
Fortescue, 'isn't 'cause he's ashamed — I'll
back that. His island's all right enough.
There's only one question concerning it I
don't quite see."

"What is that?" inquired Mr. Fortescue,

noticing Hiram's sidelong peer at him, and
the added touch of respectfulness in his last
words that rendered them almost apologetic.

"Well, it's this, sir," answered Hiram, with
an effort, "I'm but a plain seafaring man, but
I know what's probable and what's improbable
so far as the ocean goes. Talk to me of
the Flying Dutchman an' I'll laugh at you.
Talk to me of a ship floating upside down in
the sky, and I'll say 'yes' to it, for I've seen
the sight. It's this, Mr. Fortescue. Without
martin knowledge, what's set you supposing
that the lady that was in the Indieman is on
the island ?"

"It's a probability," responded Mr. Fortescue,
speaking in a low voice; "a chance,
if you like — I wish to make sure of it."

11 To make sure that she is or that she isn't
there, sir ?" '

"Yes."

Hiram grew reflective, and presently said,
By the time we reach the Indian Ocean a
good many months'll have gone since the
Indieman was burnt. D'ye suppose, sir, that
if there are men with the lady they'll keep all
on waiting on that island for something to

tarn up? If there's a sailor among 'em, don't
you reckon that unless they've been took off,
he'll have turned to and found out some way
of escaping along with the rest? That's my
idea, and Stone's of my 'pinion."

If they have no boat — if they have no
tools nor materials for getting away — how
then?" said Mr. Fortescue, but in a manner
that made him feel that the skipper suspected
an insincerity in his language.

Shipwrecks folk, driven to extremity,
have performed some amazing' exploits,"
said Hiram, rather drily.

"When," continued Mr. Fortescue, instinctively
feeling that his companion suspected
something behind his words, even whilst he
talked, and now more clearly than ever
perceiving that if that " something " was not
avowed a doubt of his sanity might follow,
when I asked Mr. Stone at Wyloe, how
people on that island were to manage if they
had no boat, his answer was that their only
chance would be in their making a smoke
and being seen."

But who's to know that they haven't
got a boat ? Who's to know they're there ?

Who's to know anything about them ? I
understood at the time of our starting that
only one boat had been picked up and that
notion had been heard of the others."- Then,
catching sight of an expression in Mr. Fortescue's
face full of pain, grief, shame — God
knows what, only that it was dreadfully
pathetic — he added, with extraordinary
energy, " it looks a terrible liberty I'm taking,
sir ; but it's not that — I don't mean it for
that. I'm your servant whilst this schooner's
in my charge, and it's my duty to serve you.
I know more about the sea than you do, sir ;
and if I didn't place my seafaring' knowledge
at your disposal I should be wronging' of you.
Stone and me have talked this voyage over,
and our fear is that, as a landsman, you mayn't
have rightly considered what you've undertaken,
and that you've been led into it by your
feeling's and your hopes, more, indeed, than by
thought of your health. I'll tell ye straight,
Mr. Fortescue — great as the liberty may seem
for speaking without being asked to it — that
it's impossible your voyage to Stone's Island
can h'end in anything but disappointment. If
you've set your hopes on the result, then

the cruisers land ye iller than you started.
Wouldn't it be " He stopped dead.

"What?" inquired Mr. Fortescue, gently.

The man passed the back of his long handover
his mouth, and said, huskily, with the
excitement that had urged him to a point of
free-speaking from which he could not now
draw back : 'wouldn't it be better, sir, to
make this voyage a matter to concern your
health only, and notion else ; trusting' by the
time you feel sound and hearty to hear on
your return that the lady's been picked up,
and that all's well with her and them that's
along with her ?"

14 Did anyone, before we left England,
suggest that you should say this to me ?"

No one, Mr. Fortescue, as the Lord's my
witness."

The idea comes wholly from your talks
with Stone ?"

-Wholly, sir."

Very well. For the present let us drop
the subject."

Hiram stepped over the binnacle, touching
his cap to Mr. Fortescue as he left him ;
whilst the clergyman went to the lee rail

and stood apparently watching with intentness
the spinning white that went past in a
glorious glittering of many colours against
the blue water just beyond. Presently
Johnny came aft with the cabin breakfast ;
Stone arrived on deck, and Mr. Fortescue
and Weeks went below. No reference was
made to the subject they had been speaking
about. The captain was shy, having persuaded
himself that he had taken a liberty,
and his face looked unusually long and
leathery, whilst his eyes had a more visible
obtrusion, as he devoured his breakfast
with many earnest but nervous squints at
the clergyman. Mr. Fortescue was full of
thought, and the anxiety in his mind was
wonderfully clear in his face ; but there was
the old sweetness in his fine, dark eyes
whenever he turned them upon Hiram to
address him. He went into his cabin
after making a very poor meal, and Hiram
returned on deck to take charge while Stone
breakfasted.

He said to the old sailor as they stood
together near the companion, "William, I've
been having a talk with Mr. Fortescue, and

feel that I've said more than was becoming
in me. I was led on by the desire of
saving him, for, view it as you may, this
here voyage isn't onderstandable."

What did you say ?" said Stone.

Why, I pointed out that there was no
good hoping to find the lady on that there
island of yours. I wanted to make him see
how ridiculous it was to voyage all the way
to the Indian Ocean, never touching at any-place
nor seeing anything on the road but
salt-water, on the mere idea that the lady-was
on an island there. I wished him to see
that you and me as seafaring' men, answerable
for his comfort and safety, saw notion but
disappointment for him in this cruise, and
that it was our duty, as his servants, to
recommend him a voyage that 'ud do him
good and give him plenty to look at''

What did he say ?"

Notion at all — notion to the point."

11 It wasn't long ago that I told him your
views," said Stone, with one foot on the
companion-steps and thoughtfully looking at
the sea, " and he didn't seem to like it. I
think that if more's said to him on the subject,

he'll turn to and come to the conclusion that
I've been a-deceiving of him in regard to the
island, and that's why we want him to change
the voyage."

"Ay, that's all right," exclaimed Hiram,
pulling a tobacco pipe from his pocket, "but
if there's no real meaning' in this voyage, if no
good to him's to come of it, ain't it our duty
to try and make him change it for a trip
that'll have meaning?" He glanced aft at
the man at the tiller, took a hurried look
round, and then said in a low voice to Stone,
Ai Supposing' — " touching his forehead.

Well," answered Stone, with a shrug of
his round back and shoulders, " 'supposing' as
you say. We've got our orders. He's boss.
Everything's right for the voyage. If I
argued at all, it 'ud only be to save him
against ultimate disappointment. Though it's
not for me to hague neither, 'cause it was meas
advised a schooner for the voyage, and it
was me that gave him my ideas on the seafaring'
part of his scheme. That was," he
continued, "because I allowed it was as much
for his health as for seeking the lady ; and to
tell 'ee the truth, Hiram, all along at that

time I fancied there was more in him than
he chose to own, because he knew all about
the island and only wanted to hear where it
was. If," said he, making as if to descend,
** he's as you think," touching his head and
speaking softly, "why, may be he'll change of
his own accord afore long and ask to be taken
home again. But if he means to fetch that
there island we're bound to steer him to it."

And so saying the old fellow went below.

Fortescue spent some time in his cabin.
When he came on deck Stone had the watch.
The day had deepened in brilliancy and
beauty ; the clouds of the early morning had
vanished, the dome was violet wherever the
eye looked, save where the sun shone, and in
the water was the true ocean blue with the
long and regular swell crisp with the snow of
running wrinkles, for the wind blew fresh and
gay, which made it a kind of wonder to the
-clergyman, who, peering into the cerulean
ether that seemed to thrill in folds of moving
azure, as the violet eyes of a girl will to
emotion, could observe no cloud nor any sort
of place for it to come out of. It was not hot
enough for an awning ; yet the sun made

himself felt out of the shadows the sails cast
upon the decks. Fortescue came up with a
book and seated himself on the skylight ; but
if reading had been his serious intention there
was too much life of light, too much of vitality
in the spacious scene of creation he viewed, to
permit him to concentrate his mind. There
was music all about him, in the rigging, in the
fountain notes of the bow-wave, in the soft
tinkling murmur of the wake under the
counter, in the creamy purring of the white
foam slipping along the bends. The brig
they had passed before breakfast was far
astern, silvered by sunshine to the complexion
of a rising star upon the blue horizon ;
miles distant on the starboard bow was the
trembling, glimmering canvas of another
vessel hull down.

It was to taste a keen and new delight for
Fortescue to look aloft at the airy, cloud-like
softness of the schooner's canvas with the
sky coming to every side of it in a sort of
faint-blue lustre, as if the sheen in the
hollows of the canvas into which the sunshine
was pouring was bubbling over in
liquid light and giving every sail a frame as

of quicksilver. Xo, whatever the mood
might be that was in him, it was not impenetrable
to the inspirations of that hour. It
would be difficult to think of any form of
human dejection which such a morning as
this would not clothe and conceal with its
beauty, or soothe with its caresses, or charm
to controlment by its power of quickening
the hidden springs of life and of putting into
the blood the exultation you feel when the
world seems glad because it is beautiful.
Besides, there were some quaint and many
perfect marine touches in the picture of the
schooner to interest him : such as the two
fellows at work on a sail stretched along : a
seaman out at the topsail-yard-arm, one leg
thrown over the spar, and a marlinspike
dangling at the end of a lanyard swinging
with the roll of the vessel ; a man whose
watch was below, " seizing" to a stay a shirt
or two he had washed ; there were mutter kings
from the live stock ; a seaman would suddenly
sing out ; you heard a clattering of
dishes and the like in the galley ; or a fellow
with a pipe in his mouth would jump with a
spring of the elbows out of the forecastle

VOL II. c

and sit blinking to the light, preferring the
deck to his bunk. But it was the quietude
that made all things delightful : the repose of
the clear, deep, darkly-pure sky, the silence
rising off the sea like the flashes caught from
the sun and thrown upwards by each soundless
swell as it rolled athwart the luminary's
wake ; indeed, the tranquillity seemed the
fuller for the seething made by the schooner's
progress through the water, or by the work
doing on her decks ; it was gentler and
sweeter than the repose of a dead calm, and
the steadiness of the sails on high, drawing
well and without a tremble in their marble-like
folds, heightened the quietness, for
perfect stillness was in those hollows which
were impelling the vessel over the sea, and
Fortescue felt it, spite of the aeolian harmonies
in the rigging, as he leaned back to
survey the broad, white fabric on high.

He noticed a certain shyness in Stone's
manner just as he had in Hiram's at breakfast,
and easily concluded that the two men
had been talking over what had passed
between him and the captain. Beyond a few
words, however, Fortescue had little to say to

the mate till Hiram came on deck with his
sextant shortly before noon, and then when
the man had taken an observation, Fortescue
said to him, " Captain, I want to have a little
talk with you and Mr. Stone. I would rather
converse in the cabin. Can you manage, both
of you at once, to leave the deck ?"

Oh, yes, on such a morning as this,"
answered Hiram, with a peculiar glance at
Stone as if he would say, " See now if I ain't
right in my supposing's." Then addressing
Duck, an able seaman, who had come to the
tiller at eight bells, he told him to keep a
bright look-out whilst he was below, and the
three of them descended into the cabin.

Mr. Fortescue was pale, but wore an expression
of determination. He seated himself
on a locker, and the two seamen, putting their
caps down, placed themselves opposite him.
They appeared much more nervous than he.
Stone, clasping his thick fingers upon the
table, leaned forward full of anxiety ; but in
Weeks' uneasiness there was a sort of knowing
curiosity as of a man who is pretty sure
of what is coming, yet wants to be quite
sure."

I have asked you below to talk with
you," said Fortescue, "because we are not
likely to be observed or overheard here, and
you may think it as well, perhaps, that the
crew should not know what I am going to-tell
you. On more than one occasion I have
noticed, since we sailed from the Thames,
a kind of misgiving in you touching the
meaning of this voyage. I need not ask
if I am right. I know I am. The mere
suggestion that we should convert this
journey into a pleasure cruise proves that
you deem the undertaking fanciful. Yet,"
said he, with a light coming into his eyes
as he looked slowly from Stone to Hiram,
"that God, whom we believe in, who is
looking down upon us here seated in the
midst of these mighty leagues of water,
knows that never did man embark upon an
adventure more solemn, more sacred, more
directly inspired by Himself, than this weare
now upon."

Hiram stroked his long chin ; Stone continued
to watch the clergyman anxiously.

I had made up my mind to conceal the
truth from you." proceeded Fortescue, "because

I am sensitive and, on this subject,
afraid of derision."

"There's no call to be afeard of anything of
that sort here, Mr. Fortescue," said Stone,
41 say what ye will, and let the subject be
what it may."

"That's so," exclaimed Hiram.

But," continued the clergyman, " I have
turned the matter over, and have come to the
conclusion that lack of plain speaking on my
part will be unfair to you by putting an uncertainty
into this voyage. There are things
you cannot reconcile. If I could obtain a
sketch of the island, how was it that I had to
advertise a reward for discovering its situation
r

"Well, sir," said Hiram, " I own that that
there was a puzzler, and it still is."

"Then," Mr. Fortescue went on, "what
could so persuade me that the young lady I
seek is on that island as to induce me to
go to the great expense of this voyage, and
pass many months on the sea ? Only one
boat belonging to the Merula has been
accounted for, news of the other had not
reached England when we sailed, and yet

you find me so convinced of the truth of
information coming from you know not where,
that after conversing with you, Mr. Stone,
I buy this vessel and immediately start for
the Indian Ocean."

Hiram's interest was taking a new
character. He was beginning to think
the clergyman perfectly sound in his mind,
and not to be suspected, therefore, on that
head. It was sheer curiosity with him now,
and you saw it in the increased protrusion of
his eyes. Stone, imagining from Fortescue's
interrogative manner, that some answer was
expected, said, " I was a bit puzzled. I
reckoned you had got hold of this here island
through talking', and that your grieving' had set
ye a-fancyin' your young lady might be on it.
And then I reckoned it was a matter of health
likewise. And I also considered it was no
business of mine to ask questions, but simply
to head straight, as in this way: you wanted
to know where the island was ; well, I told
yer, and why shouldn't I when I could oblige
ye and put a pile o' money into my pockets
besides ? Next, how was you to get to the
island ? And I told yer that too, sir, and I was

agreeable to ship as mate. I'll not deny that
me and Captain Weeks has talked this job
over without being able to see daylight
through it."

"Let Mr. Fortescue speak, Bill," exclaimed
Hiram.

"You have said, Mr. Stone, that if the
island had been drawn by one who had
sketched it at sight, the drawing of it I
showed you could not be more accurate'*
said Mr. Fortescue gently, but with an
expression of wistfulness in his face.

According to my recollection of it, sir,
the drawn' of that island is the island itself,"
answered Stone, meeting his gaze, steadily.

You hear that, Captain Weeks ?"

"Why," responded Hiram, "it was always
clear as mud in a wine-glass to me that if that
there drawing of the island wasn't like the
one that Bill was cast away on, he couldn't
have spoken to it."

"Well," said Mr. Fortescue, "on the
second night after the Merula had left
the Downs I dreamed of her. W T hat I
saw was a vision of what was to take place
when she had arrived in the Indian Ocean.

I saw her sailing along under a bright sky,
then labouring in a tempest, then on fire. I
then beheld a boat, containing the young lady
I am seeking, alone under a burning sun ;
and I afterwards beheld the island you were
wrecked on, Mr. Stone, and saw the boat
go to pieces in the surf, and some of her
occupants scramble ashore. When I awoke
I found this," said he, producing the sketch,
gt upon my table. I had risen and drawn it
in my sleep."

Never heard of anything queerer in all
my life !" cried Hiram, who had been holding
on to the hair under his chin, and staring,
open-mouthed.

'rit is not likely," continued the clergyman,
addressing Stone, with a melancholy smile,
that I should have been influenced by this
dream unless it had been confirmed. Afterwards,
when the news came of the Merula
having been destroyed by fire, I had an
interview with her third mate at Ramsgate,
and he informed me that everything I related
to him had happened ; nay, I have no doubt
he supposed that someone who recollected
the particulars of the disaster more clearly



than he, had told me the story, for, of course,
I did not tell him it was a dream."

Well," ejaculated Hiram, passing his
fingers through his hair, "if this ain't a start,
too. Never heard of anything queerer !"

And this here island," said Stone, whose
complexion looked grey in the cabin-light,
and who was obviously awed, "this here
island," said he, pointing to the paper
without offering to touch it, "was what
you saw in your vision ?"

Yes. I question if, on awaking from my
sleep, I should have been able to reproduce
it so accurately as you see it here ; but
having drawn it in my sleep, why, when I
looked at it, I vividly recalled the colour and
appearance of it according to my dream j
then, when, afterwards, the news arrived to
confirm the truth of what had been shown
me in my slumber, I felt that this island must
have an existence, that the people whose
boat had gone to pieces were on it and might
perish there if help was not sent them, and I
resolved, when I had ascertained where the
island lay, to seek it."

He paused. The two men stared at him

with faces full of wonder and awe. He then
added, in a half-beseeching manner, to which
his sorrowful face and soft, dark, burning
eyes imparted a singular solemnity : —

Mr. Stone, you know that that island I
dreamt about is real ?"

''So help me God, yes! Mr. Fortescue,' r
responded the old sailor, earnestly.

"And being real, though only dreamt
about, and all that happened to the Merula
being real also, though only dreamt about
likewise, I ask you, Captain Weeks, I ask
you, Mr. Stone, is there anything — now that
you know my motive in making the voyage
is there anything in this adventure which
you, as God-fearing men and Christian
seamen, can question as showing that I am
not acting as any other man would who
would lay down his life for the lady he seeks,
for the woman who was to be his wife."

His voice was broken as he spoke these
words, and he hid his face in his hands.
Hiram looked at Stone, into whose old eyes
there had come a dampness.

I've leered of dreams in my time," said
Hiram, fetching a deep breath, "but notion

curiouser than yours, sir. Notion ! That
there dream of a man I was shipmates with
who was tannin' at the wheel one night
when his mother came along and told him to
get a Bible and look at a verse in one of the
Apostle's epistles whilst she held the spokes,
which he did and found something about
sudden death in it, and next day he dropped
down dead, as true as I'm sitting here —
why, that dream, which I always reckoned the
wonderfully thing that ever happened at sea,
ain't to be compared with yours, sir. Call ita
vision ! More like a panorama, to my way
of thinking. Eh, Bill ?"

"Ay," answered Stone, speaking slowly
and with feeling, "but what Mr. Fortescue
says is, ' Ain't the wonderful dream he had
accurate enough in all respects and astonishing
enough also to make his undertaken' this
voyage rational ?' So far as my 'pinion is
asked, sir," he added, addressing the clergyman,
"my reply is, ' It is.' An' I don't mind
telling of you, sir, that I for one am grateful
for your having spoken out, for it was all as
thick as muck afore, scarcely anything orders
in it, whilst now — why, Lor' bless

my precious soul, what a dream ! enough to
shift a man's ballast."

"Ay, quite enough," cried Hiram. "It's
all very well for a man to wish he could see
ahead ; but I allow if the power wur offered
him he'd say l no,' for nature's nature, an' who
wants to be able to be unnatural whether he
likes it or not ?"

11 Only fancy, seen' a island ye knew
notion about, and a-drawin' of it so correctly
in your sleep as to make me know
what it was soon as ever I set eyes on't !"
exclaimed Stone. " Well, to be sure, this
here's a rum world."

A blooming' rum world," said Hiram.

I have explained everything to you,"
remarked Fortescue, " and you two know
more than Mr. Salt, Mr. Skinner, or any
other person in this world saving a gentleman
at Wyloe. But it has eased my mind
to take you into my confidence ; and you
will now understand why I refused to discuss
the idea of converting this voyage to
the Indian Ocean into a pleasure cruise on
this side the Cape."

One question, Mr. Fortescue," said

Hiram, standing up, "did you see the lady
on the island — I mean in your dream, sir ?"

11 1 did — distinctly. She was helped through
the surf by a man whom I knew in my sleep
to be the Merula's boatswain and who will
prove to be the same person, because the
third mate informed me the boatswain had
charge of one of the boats ; when she landed
she fell on her knees, as if in prayer, then
rose and stretched out her arms to me."

He had taxed himself beyond his powers
in saying this. In giving expression, to these
two rough seamen, to that one overwhelming
image which haunted him day and night,
that, more than any other portion of his dream,
had impelled him to traverse the ocean in
search of his beloved, he had strained himself
• to the heart ; one wild look of appeal
he cast at old Stone, and then with a deep
sob and a sort of pitiful farewell gesture of
the hands that was like wringing them, he
entered his berth.

The two seamen stood staring at each
other. Then with a snuffle of the nose and
in a low voice, Stone said : —

What d'ye think of it, Hiram ?"

The skipper picked up his sextant and
brought his protruding eyes into a squint
upon the arch of it ; then passing with his
tongue the bit of tobacco in his mouth from
one cheek to the other, he said : —

You're an older man than me, Bill, and
have seen more and have thought more.
What do you think of it ?"

"Well," replied Stone, scratching the back
of his head, and speaking very slowly, " I
think this : Mr. Fortescue's to be bereft ;
he's a gentleman, let alone being a parson ;
and's not likely to tell a lie. My belief is
that he's a pious man, mourning after his
lady, and that the Almighty God, to comfort
him, has spoke to him in a dream and told
him what to do."

Ye believe that, do you ?" said Hiram.

"Yes, that's what I believe," said Stone,
but not with emphasis.

"Well, I'm not going to stand here and
say you're wrong," exclaimed Hiram; "but
afore I coincides with you I must turn-to and
think a bit. Tell ye where my difficulty lies :
if it were a pretty general habit for folks to
dream of things that don't happen till months

after, why, then, this here vision of Mr. Fortescue's
would be right enough ; nc man
could say it was unlikely. even if this kind o'
dream was r ~e as earthquakes or three at a
birth. Bill, ike old Jackson's young 'uns, or
them blazing stones which falls out of the
sky ; even then, I say, nary man could object
to their been' likely. But when it comes to
one man being singled out by the Lord as if
he was the only creature proper to be talked
to direct from Heaven and allowed to see
jest the very thing that 'ud keep him fretting
and wondering for years if he didn't see it —
well ! I must think it over ; it'll bear a spell
of thought. Mind ye, Bill, it's strange,
mate ; never heard anything like it in my
time."

And so saying, he entered his berth with
his sextant, whilst Mr. Stone, in the very
slowest of his usually slow ways, toiled
abstractedly up the ladder on to the deck.

a fo'ksle discussion.

They had no sooner left the cabin than a
head with a rather grimy pale face on it and
disordered hair and reddish eyelashes popped
out of a spare bunk on the port side, and,
after taking a quick glance around was
followed by the body and legs of Johnny, the
'boy." This youth was about seventeen
years old, stupid, but willing ; and he was useful
as one of the ship's company, because
though he hardly knew how to make a long
splice he could help to roll up a sail and was
a very good servant for the cabin, besides
being serviceable as a sort of cook's mate.
He had "all night in" because he was kept
at work all day, but feeling tired after breakfast
and guessing he would not be missed fora
quarter of an hour or so, he had sneaked
into the spare cabin bunk, that was in reality

a hole in the side such as you see in smacks,
with the intention of merely resting his limbs;
but had fallen fast asleep. He was awakened
by the entrance of Mr. Fortescue and the two
men; when, realising his situation and the
ropes-ending that might follow his detection,
he lay breathless, listening to all that was
said. When the mate left the cabin and
Hiram entered his berth, Johnny tumbled
out of his bunk and went on deck to see after
the cabin dinner.

The cook was a man named Micky Anson,
a fat, ignorant person, irritable like most sea-cooks.
His temper aboard the Golden Hope
had not been improved by the smallness of
the galley, the want of elbow-room, and the
wild and lively motion of the schooner during
the bad weather, when, on one occasion, he
had been washed out of the caboose by a sea,
and when he had been several times scalded
by capsized saucepans. Whether, but for
the cook's temper, Johnny would ever have
repeated a word of what he had heard in the
cabin, cannot be imagined ; but, on being
angrily assailed by Anson for "loafing" and
neglecting to do his "bit, "and the like, the

VOL. II. D

lad said " Micky, s'elp me as I stand, I'd have
been here if it wasn't for a ghost story. I
heard it in the cabin. I'd laid down in the
spare bunk, an' I fell asleep and was woke
up by the old man and the mate and the
parson coming' below ; the parson he turned
and giv' 'em a yarn about a ghost. Micky,
s'elp me, it were enough to make a man's
hair feel as if it were stiff with fat. He aura
long time yarnin', and then they cleared
out an' aft I come." So saying, he seized
hold of some plates that were to be cleaned
and began to make a mighty rattle with them
in a metal-pail, full of water.

Ah," cried the cook, "of course you was
latin' down. You're always alain' down.
It's gutter-jumpers after your pattern as
are making' sailors the laughing-stock of the
world. Good mind to round on ye to the
ole man," he exclaimed, opening the oven
door to scowl at a meat pie. "It's your
thick skin what makes you insensible to
nautical feelings, and you'll never feel like
a seafaring' man till that there skin has been
thinned by a course of riding' down. Ghosts !
If there was e'er a things of the kind in this

schooner, damme, if I wouldn't be at the cost
of making him a present of the sharpest fork
on that shelf there, on the understanding' that
he haunted ye about with it and kept all on
jobbing of you till I told him to stop."

Micky," cried the lad, who was now red
in the face with the exertions he was putting
into his task of cleaning and rubbing, " s'elp
me, if the parson's yarn wasn't enough to
make me wish I was home again. Why, this
voyage ain't a voyage at all. We're a
sailing' in search of a ghost. Ye should have
heard the mate grunt when he was told it,
and th' ole man kep on saying, ' Well, this is
a start ! This do beat my time !' And when
the parson was gone the skipper asks the
mate what he thinks, and the mate he says it
must be all true 'cos the parson's too pious to
tell a lie."

4i What's all true ? What are you a-jawin'
about ? Who's going' to hear you whilst you
makes that blooming' noise ?" cried the cook,
whose curiosity was now excited.

What's all true ? Why, what the parson
told the skipper and the mate," replied
Johnny. "He says there's a female ghost

situated on a island in the Indian Ocean,
and this voyage is to fetch her." The cook
flourished a frying-pan, whilst Johnny, cowering
and dodging behind his uplifted arm,
roared out, " S'elp me the Lord, it's true,
Micky. The ghost came to the parson and
says: T'm on the island what Mr. Stone's got
the calculations of;' and she writ down a
likeness of the island and pretended that the
parson had done it ; and then the parson
he sees the drawn' and likewise the ghost
a-stretchin' out of her arms to him, and so he
makes up his mind to go and fetch her, and
here we are a-going !"

The cook looked attentively at the lad,
and knowing him to be too much of a fool
to be capable of inventing such a story as
this, exclaimed, " Just say that over again,
will yer?" The youth did so. "Ye mean
to say that the parson told the capon and
mate that a female ghost wrote down a
likeness of an island and informed him that
she was on it, and that this voyage was
meant to fetch her ?" said the cook, knitting
his brows and looking at Johnny with an
expression in his eye that caused the lad to

respond with astonishing rapidity, " Ay,

Micky, and if it ain't true, may I ," and

he hoped that all sorts of fearful physical
afflictions would smite him.

Well," said the cook, beginning to bustle
about afresh, but in a rather abstracted manner,
if the parson's motive be what you say it is,
then this here's a voyage I for one never
signed articles for. But aft with yer now ;
get the cloth laid," and he made as if he
would lift his foot, on which the youth ran
out.

It being the captain's watch on deck, and
consequently William Breeches' watch below,
for William was in the mate's watch,
Breeches comes to the galley for a light
for his pipe.

William," says the cook, "what was in
your head, mate, when you signed articles
for this here voyage ?"

Breeches surveys him leisurely, and
answers, " Seventy bob a month, Micky."

"Ay," says the cook, "that's right enough;
but what was the destination given ye ?"

11 Why," says Breeches, leaning in the
doorway and taking a look at what the

watch on deck were doing, "a island in
the Indian Ocean, wasn't it? I've signed
on for a good many voyages in my time,
but somehow I've never caught myself taking
notice of where we're bound till we gets
there."

'what d'ye say," exclaims the cook, "of
the parson buying this here schooner to
fetch a ghost off the island we're bound to ?"

"Git out," says Breeches.

"Well," says the cook, "it's Johnny's
yarn." And here he relates how the lad came
to overhear the conversation in the cabin,
exaggerating the youth's version of course,
and embellishing it with several original
touches.

"If it's true, it's blazing queer," says
Breeches.

"Ah," says the cook, "and the more you
think of it the likelier it is. What does a
parson want to sail to a island in the
Indian Ocean for, that's got no name, eh ?
Just ask yourself that, William. It ain't
for trafficking ; there's no bartering' Thames*
ballast, anyways ; no fear of it's being for
slaving and the likes o' that. Parsons are

all very well, but it's martin their dealings
is with what ye can't see ; and if there's to
be anything what may be called speeritooal-
like mucked up in this voyage, unbeknown
to us and not down in the articles, I for one
shall want to know what the capt'n has to
say upon it."

Well, of course, language of this kind
ended in making the two fellows look at each
other with faces as long as "a wet hammock,"
to use the language of the sea, and
when Breeches had smoked his pipe out and
descended into the forecastle, it was not to
"turn in," but to repeat what he had heard
to Martin Goldsmith and Henry Sawyer,
who sat on their chests mending their
clothes, the remaining man of the watch, Joe
Hall, ordinary seaman, being in his bunk and
loudly snoring there.

It was the custom of the watches to get
supper together, and shortly before four bells
(six o'clock) the men, having finished the
meal, were on the forecastle, for the evening
was beautiful, the wind warm, and the sun
descending in such splendour that you would
have thought yourself in parallels higher than

those of the Shetlands to have seen the
bright flames gushing out of the hazy crimson
vortex and the lines of ribbed clouds
robed in gold and orange and pink and scarlet,
with the sky a most delicate dim green
between them, and the sea coming with a
bright copper glare upon it out of the west,
and sweeping with the heavens into dark
blue into the east. There never was a more
peaceful picture than the schooner made at
that hour. Steeped in the flowing western
glory the full bosoms of her canvas were
tinged with orange, while in the concavities
which faced the east, whence the wind was
blowing as though the fevered breath of the
African desert were mingled in the freshness
and sweetness it gathered from the ocean in
its flight, in those concavities the shadows
lay like the blue dusk of evening, thus furnishing
an exquisite contrast to an eye so
situated as to embrace both the convexities
and hollows of the sails. There was nothing
in sight the wide waters round. Mr. Fortescue
and Hiram were drinking tea on deck,
Stone was below. In the bows were the
crew, sitting on the windlass-end or leaning

against the weather rail, the cook and
Johnny in the midst of them, apparently
yarning, or, as Hiram would sometimes
fancy, arguing, when he cast his glance forward,
but speaking low with askant looks aft.
It was the first dog watch ; and they had the
second yet to go through before they settled
down to night duty or repose. The whole
length of the schooner was between Weeks
and his men ; but if this were not enough so
to subdue the voices of the crew as to render
their words inaudible aft, there was the
swinging of canvas aloft as the Golden Hope
rolled, the sounds of water disturbed and
moving over the side, small straining and
chafing noises, and besides, Captain Hiram
conversed with Mr. Fortescue, though no
reference was made between them to what
had passed in the cabin.

It was otherwise on the forecastle, where
the account that had been given to the cook
by Johnny was being gravely discussed.

Mates," said Breeches, feeling in his
trousers' pockets for a pipe, "what seems
to me the queerest part of this job is, that
if that there Johnny's yarn is true, it's plain

that the capt'n and the mate didn't know
any more nor us what was the motive of
this voyage."

11 That's what strikes me as the mummies
part, too," said Tim Duck, a saucy-looking,
somewhat merry-faced seaman of thirty. "The
parson evidently got to windward of the old
man afore sailing, and now we're a fortnight
out and the truth's told, the skipper don't
know what to do."

"If he wants addison' I'm game for one,"
remarked the cook.

11 Who says he dunno what to do?" asked
Martin Goldsmith. " He don't look much
disturbed. I allow his face couldn't be much
longer than it is, but if there's any inward
capital in a man ye're not going to see him
smiling and appearing greasy like Hiram
there, as if he'd got the young woman he's
a-courting on his knee."

Essay it's mere acting," said young Joe
Hall. "There's too many skippers knocking'
about ashore, bullies, for Hiram to turn to
and say he wasn't going' to sail the schooner
to a haunted island."

Johnny," said Breeches, in a severe voice,

"d'ye mean to say that the parson told the
skipper and Bill that there was a ghost on an
island in the Indian Ocean, and that we was
bound out to fetch it? Just think. You're
modern half a fool, recollect, and afore you
jumps down my throat with a screeching
'yes!' just overhaul what mind you've got
and see if you ain't mistook."

Fool or no fool," answered the boy, ,( I'll
tell yer, if you was to hold me over the rail
and say you'd let go if I answered ' yes ' to
what you've asked, I'd say 'yes.' D'ye think
I can'tTiear ? S'elp me, as I'm sitting, what
the parson said was, a ghost wrote down a
island for him — a female ghost — and says
she was on it and she opened her arms to the
parson and the parson he makes up his mind
to go to her. An' here we are a-going' !
'Wasn't only that, neither. The ghost made
the parson see the ship blazing up in the
Indian Ocean, him being in England. And
the skipper he talked of a ghost as come to a
ship's wheel and made a chap there fetch a
Bible, and next day he drops down dead.
There was notion I didn't hear, fool or no
fool, William."

Well," said Henry Sawyer, with an uneasy
glance aft at the clergyman and a kind
of writhe on the hatch he was sitting on,
l if Johnny ain't blundering, the look-out
of this voyage is the uncomfortable a
respectable sailor could sign for. Why,
slaving 'ud be better than ghost-hunting,
damme."

What's a ghost like?" said the cook.
Anybody ever see a ghost ?"

11 Did the parson tell the capt'n what the
ghost was like ?" inquired Goldsmith.

No," answered Johnny. " It wor something
as put it's arms out."

"Well," said Duck, "that's what ghosts
do. " I've seen 'em represented in the
theater. They comes up out of the holes
under the stage, and points and talks with
their arms. They never speaks. There's
no good in saying', as Sam did, there airing
ghosts ; 'cause if they'd never been
visible how could they be drawer, and
how could play-haters dress up like 'em ?"

4 'What I said was that no man ever yet
see a ghost," exclaimed Sam Wilks, an
ordinary seaman. " A ghost's a man's soul,

and my father believed that when souls was
liberated they got blowed about till they
brought up, but no man ever saw a soul.
Why. if it was something ye could look at,
every time a chap died you'd see his soul
rlyin' away."

Tell yer what it is. mates," said Goldsmith,
" you may say it ought to be
middling' warm in these parts, but it's blasted
cold to my notion''

Light a pipe," said Duck.

"Jimmy," said Breeches, meaning Kitts,
who was at the helm, "told me this afternoon
that he was shipmates with a man
who knew a sailor that had murdered a
young person he was keeping' company with.
He hid the body and sailed away, but the
girl went with him. If he jumped aloft she
was on the footsore alongside of him. If
he took the wheel she'd he holding the lee
spokes. If he looked over the side he'd
see her in the water. When he came home
she stepped on to the quay with him, and
Jimmy said that his mate told him that
when the man stepped over the side the
young person made him take a coach and

go down to where her body was and digit
up and look at it, which he did, and then
she made him take the coach back again
and go to the police and tell 'em he had
murdered her."

"Conscience is the name of that there
ghost," said Duck.

44 Conscience be blowed !" cried Breeches.
Mean to tell me a man as can murder a
young woman's got any conscience ?"

11 Look here !" said the cook. 44 What
I'm a-thinking of is this. What's this here
voyage about ?" There was a short silence.
"Whether," continued the cook, "ghosts is
to be believed in or to be denied of, / don't
mean to take a hand in searching after them.
If Johnny here ain't a liar, that parson there's
gone and bought this hooker 'expressly to find
out a island on which something that came
to him when he was a-bed said it lived. I for
one didn't sign for a job of this kind, and my
opinion is that we ought to speak to the
captain, and larn from the captain himself
what his motives are."

At this moment Stone, who had been
eating his supper in the cabin — the last meal

on board ship is always called supper though
ashore it would be called tea — came on deck
and took a turn or two along the gangway.
first casting a glance aloft, then running his
eye round the sea till he came to the sinking
sun that was then a truly glorious spectacle
of flame and colour, insomuch that the mere
reflection of it in the sea yielded a score of
shining and exquisite tints from the burning
red on the horizon to the delicate amber
that came sifting through the water to the
schooner's side, where it died out and left the
sea on the port beam a rich violet. This the
old sailor stood gazing at for some moments
with the sort of reverence in his face that the
grandeurs and beauties of nature excite in
plain and simple minds, after which his eve
was taken bv the crew talking together on
the forecastle. It was immediately evident
to him that they had got under weigh with
some topic of more than usual interest, and
observing that they all looked towards him
as if they had a mind to speak, he quietly
walked forward with a careless glance at the
fore-topsail, as if his idea was to see that all
was right that way, until he came to the

windlass-end where he stood lightly looking
round him.

Mr. Stone," suddenly exclaimed the cook,
"could ye tell us what this here voyage is
undertaken for ?"

"Undertaken for!" answered Stone, startled
by the abruptness of the question, and also at
a loss, instantly noticed by the men, who
exchanged glances. " Why, why, d'ye mean
to say you don't remember what you signed
for ?"

"Yes," replied the cook; "I signed for
the voyage from the port of London to a
island in the Indian Ocean and back. We
was to go out and return in ballast, and I
understood it wur to be a sort of pleasure
cruise, a kinder yachting' job."

That's it, Micky," exclaimed Goldsmith,
who of all the men had apparently been
rendered the most uncomfortable by Johnny's
story.

"Well," cried Stone, "and who said it
ain't to be a sorter pleasure cruise, a kinder
yachting' job, as you call it, eh ? What dye
suppose the object is — piracy ? If that were
it you may reckon we'd need more muscle

than what's to be got out o' the likes of that
suet," pointing to the fat arms of the cook.

11 Tell ye what it is, Mr. Stone," said
Breeches, " We've learnt that there's something
supernatural, as the savin' is, in the
parson's intentions, and, though I don't
believe in ghosts myself, I'm not again' to
help in any job I can't see daylight
through."

Ghosts ?" cried old Stone, " what are
you talking' about ? Who's been a-jawin' to
you about ghosts ?"

Calling' names and insulting of people
ain't answering questions," said the cook,
viciously. " Will you please tell us what
this here voyage is undertaken for ?"

The men again noticed the disconcerted
expression in the old chap's face. He
glanced aft, and, observing that Mr. Fortescue
had left the deck, motioned to Hiram, who
was watching the crew as though he had
now guessed that something more than mere
"yarning" was keeping the fellows together.
As the captain walked forward in strides as
long as a tragedian's, the eye would have
been taken by the lovely sea-piece of that
vol. 11. e

moment, the airy splendour in the west, the
velvet-like blue in the east, the ocean-line
going round in a soft sweep of indigo till it
met the dying glory where it was reflected,
the sails of the schooner standing brilliant as
white plumage against the pure windward
dusk, the little crowd of men forward where
the windlass was and where the foremast
rose yellow, with its black shrouds and snow-like
cloths, to the golden shining, and the
sand-coloured deck aft tenanted by a solitary
figure at the tiller.

What's the matter?" said Hiram.

"Why," responded Stone, "here's Bill
Breeches skin' if there ain't something
supernatural in this voyage ; talking' about
ghosts and the likes of such stuff; and here's
Micky Anson inquiring' what it is he signed
for."

I know what I signed for, capt'n,"
answered the cook, "and I likewise know
what I didn't sign for."

"Look here !" interrupted Hiram. "What's
the matter ? That's what / want to know."

"Well, I'll tell yer what's the matter,"
responded Breeches. "You an' the parson an'

,-'•

Mr. Stone here had a private conversation
in the cabin at noon."

Well ?" thundered Hiram.

11 Well," continued Breeches, easing down
his defiant manner a bit in the teeth of the
skipper's resolute, frowning stare, "we understand
that the parson gave you a version of
his reason in buying' this vessel and sailing of
her to the H 'india Ocean that was as unbeknown
to you and Mr. Stone as it was to us."

Well ?" shouted Hiram.

"Well," proceeded Breeches. "What weare
informed is, that a ghost appeared to
the parson and wrote down a island and
said she was upon it, and she begged of him
to come by opening her arms out to him,
and that's why he bought the schooner. I
tell ver," said the man, waxing defiant again
and seeking encouragement in the looks of
the men around him, " that I don't believe in
ghosts. I don't know notion about 'em and
don't want to. But we're agreed that parsons
are people as may get hold o' notions which
plain sailors would rather not help 'em to
carry out, d'ye see, capt'n? An' if so be "

Hiram and Stone had been staring at w each

sty Of ujhob

other. The former at this point yelled out,.
Who told you that we had a private conversation
in the cabin ?"

The cook said, "Johnny."

Hiram stretched forth his long arm and
collared the youth with fingers like steel
hooks. " How did yer know we had a
private conversation in the cabin?" he roared.

The lad's knees knocked each other as he
replied, " I was a bit tired and I turned into
the spare bunk, an' when you an' the parson
an' the mate come down I — I lay still — not
choosing' — been' afeared — hi ! hi !" It was
bound to come, and for a long minute Johnny
was cutting wild capers to, and raising
boisterous shouts over, a regular downright
old-fashioned ropes-ending, all of the olden
time.

The crew, accepting this as a matter of
course, waited with impatience for Hiram to
recover his breath. The first words he said
were, " Breeches, you're an old fool."

"What d'ye call me that for?" cried the
man.

Out of politeness, you old scaramouch.
Why, if I w r as to give ye all the names you

deserve you'd have more titles than the
Emperor of Cheney. To think of a man of
your age talking' about ghosts. Why, what
do you call yourself? A man ?"

"What's this here voyage about?" demanded
the cook.

11 About?" exclaimed Hiram, with extraordinary
scorn, " about ? Think of a cook, a
cook, asking nautical questions and expecting
answers ! Look here, my lads, and let
Breeches and Micky listen to me. The
Merula was a Breast Indieman. She was
burnt in the Indian Ocean. There was a
lady aboard of her as Mr. Fortescue was to
marry. He dreamt that the vessel was
burnt and that the lady who was in one of
the boats reached an island that Mr. Stone
here was cast away upon. He disbelieved his
dream till he heard that the ship had been
burnt, and then when he comes to larn that
the island he dreamt about was a real place
and that Stone knew it, he says to himself,
1 This here vision may have come from
Heaven. Who knows, since what I dreamt
was true, that the lady I see in my dream
upon this island mayn't actually be there ?

I love her ; she was to have been my wife.
I'll spend what money I've got in a schooner
and sail to this here island, and I'll trust to
Almighty God, if so be my dream's correct,
that we shan't be too late to preserve her
life.' My lads, what's unreasonable in this ?"

The crimson gloom that was now upon the
sea and sky was a good light to study the
faces of the men in as they listened to
Hiram, for it deepened every line and added
another shade to the bronze on the cheek,
though it had its mellowing influence, too,
specially noticeable in old Stone's face,
whose earnestness was softened into pathos
by it.

"There are husbands among ye, I daresay,"
continued Hiram, "and some, I doubt
not, has sweethearts. Besides, ye're all
English, ay, even Micky Anson's English ;
and if there's any man here as considers Mr.
Fortescue's determination to see if the end
of his dream ain't as true as the beginning
proved to be — if there's any man here as can
see anything supernatural and not orders
in the gent's seeking' of his love
where he believes her to be cast away, then

all I can say is, he must be the naturalist
character and the worst scowbanker as ever
signed articles for a lovely ship and a beautiful
voyage."

Thus speaking he ran his eyes over the
men with a challenging stare at each.

11 Then ye mean to say," observed
Breeches, "that what Johnny took an*
brought forward's a lie ?"

Yes — a lie as big as he is ; a lie as big
as you and him and the cook is," cried
Stone. 'what's your idea of the clergyman's
intellect that you should suppose he's
capable of going' a ghost-hunting '? D'ye suppose
that an educated man like him. a man
that Sunday after Sunday teaches folks with
ten times more brains than you things that
they don't know notion about — d'ye imagine
he's to be set right by the likes o' you ?"

"There was nothing mentioned about our
seeking' the island for the purpose of takin' the
parson's young woman off it," exclaimed
Duck. " There was nothing said about it in
the articles."

"The voyage was to the Indian Ocean
and back, anyway," cried Hiram, "touching

at an island there. Ye'll allow that." There
was a general murmur of assent. " Very
well," continued Hiram, speaking with excitement,
" and I should like to know if we was
to find a countrywoman of ours upon that
island, or any shipwrecked sailors belonging
to the Merula or any other vessel, I should
like to know," he cried in his luckiest voice
and with a stern roll of his eyes over the
men, " if there's e'er a seaman here as would
say, ' I'm not again' to rescue that there
woman or them there men because it's a
job I didn't sign for ?' "

There was a pause, broken or.ly by the
flap of a sail as the schooner rolled to
leeward and the rippling of water at the
stem. Some bright stars were shining in
the dark eastern blue, but westwards it was
still a rusty hectic among the lines of clouds,
whose skirts were blackening to the night
though their brows still held traces of the
glory that was deep down behind the sea.

Why, of course," said Goldsmith, hammering
at a flint for his tinder-box, "if you put it
in that way, capt'n, it's right enough. Ne'er
a man here, I repose, believes in ghosts,

objects ye can see and yet walk through
without feeling' of 'em. And our wish to hear
what you had to say about the yarn Johnny
lay and listened to, wasn't because we was
such cussed fools as to reckon we was
actually bound out to bring home a ghost,
but because none of us not having much
acquaintance with what goes on in parsons
minds, we agreed that there must be something
uncommon hidden from us in this
voyage, and wanted to know what it was."

"Well, ye have the truth," said Stone.
And I'll go a bit murder with you yet, mates,
the capt'n there'll bear me out — the reason
why the clergyman didn't tell us afore we
started that he had dreamt the lady he was
to be spliced to was on the island, was 'cause
he was afraid of behoof sneered at. Ain't that
a likely thing in a man? Why, I've known
chaps afraid to say their prayers — actually
ashamed to ask for God's blessing' upon them
and those they've left at home — for fear
they'd be laughed at by their mates, choosing'
rather to put aside God's love than be jeered
at by the meanest of his creatures."

Well, that's true enough," grumbled

Breeches. " I myself have had feeling's I
shouldn't ha' liked to talk about, 'specially
when my boy was drownded."

"It's all that blooming' Johnny!" cried Joe
Hall. " If he'd told the cook the truth
there'd ha' been notion said. But who
was going to know what we was bound
out for when that chap comes along with
his yarns about ghosts and spirits on an
island waiting for the schooner to take 'em
off?"

"And I ain't sure, Micky," said Sawyer,
turning upon the cook, " that the yarn
wasn't aggravated by your way of relating
of it."

I'll swear," cried Johnny, who stood
cowering behind the foremast, "that I
never said nothing about the ghost's eyes
been' like riding' lamps for brightness. Yet
Micky made that out. S'elp me, skipper,
it wur Micky's temper as forced me to
'plain why I hadn't come forrard afore, or
rather than ha' said a word about the parson's
yarn I'd ha' been " and here, as was

apparently his custom, he expressed himself
willing to incur all sorts of frightful and

horrible calamities, such as being struck
blind and the like. This the cook answered
by calling Johnny many offensive names.
But the crew now saw how it was : there
was nothing more to argue about. Besides,
it would be eight bells before long and
time for the men who had the first watch
below to think of turning in.

"A queer notion for them to have got
into their heads," said Hiram to Stone as
they walked aft. " Better say notion about
it to Mr. Fortescue ; it might make him
uneasy."

So I think," replied Stone.

I dunno that I'm sorry it's happened
either," said Hiram. "If the voyage was
puzzling' to us aft it was bound to be puzzling'
forwards ; but now its onderstandable to all
hands, at least, onderstandable from the
curate's way of looking at it. Mind ye, Bill,
what I said to the men don't prove that I
cease to consider the whole bilin' of this start
amazingly supernatural, as Breeches rightly
calls it. I've been turning it over all the
afternoon, and have come to the conclusion
that this here voyage must be regarded as a

whim put into the gent's mind by his dream.
If the bearing's of your island are correctly
given we shall find it right enough. But that's
all ; notion else but the island, if it ain't a
savage or two !"

Well, we'll have to find that out by
waiting," said Stone. " My view is, that
since as much as he could find out about his
dream turned out true the other parnell be
true likewise. Ye know, Hiram, that there's
no nonsensical piety about me. What I
believes in I keeps to myself unless I'm asked
to speak. My notion is that one soul's quite
enough for a man to look after in this world,
an' that if he contains himself with other
people's souls he stands to let his own go
adrift. So, touching' this here dream, I don't
want to hague as if I was some converted
retired sea captain, who makes friends with
parsons in th' hope of getting' a hoist into a
berth ashore through 'em ; all that I desire
to say is, that the Being as made them stars,
and the holler of whose hand is big enough
to contain the ocean and everything afloat on
it, is as likely to show mercy to a man by
putting' a useful dream into his head as by

heeding a gale of wind just when all hands
thinks themselves lost."

Why, yes," exclaimed Hiram, following
the indication of old Stone's finger as he
pointed aloft, "there's no limiting of the
Lord's power ; everybody knows that.
And it 'ud be presumptuous," he added,
emphasising the "b" as though he would
have Stone to observe his mastery over
difficult words "in me to say the parson's
dream didn't come from the Lord. Still,
Bill, ye know, it would be more satisfactory
if this class of visions was more general.
There' ve been a good many dreams going*
in this world ever since H'adam woke up
and found H'eve alongside of him, which
some married men might consider in the
light of a nightmare ; but when it comes

to one chap been' singled out " He

paused and added, "Tell 'ee what I. should
like to dream of, Bill, and find come true."

"What?" said Stone, gaping.

Why, of a island— not with a ghost
upon it — but with a signboard standing up
an' saying, ' Four foot down lies ten
thousand pound in good money.' That

'ud be a practical dream. But when it
comes to females in visions imploring' of you
He was checked by Stone gripping
his arm, and at the same moment Fortescue
came out of the cabin.

It was natural that the crew of the Golden
Hope should find matter for talk in what
Captain Weeks had told them. Certainly,
the curate's dream did not correspond with
Johnny's notion of their being bound out to
an island to bring home a ghost, but it
furnished the voyage with a motive that
made it seem a queer and uncommon thing
in the thoughts of the simple, ignorant
fellows ; and Fortescue was promptly transformed
into a mysterious person, to their
fancy, who had visions and was to a
certain extent possessed, and was consequently
to be treated with respect and
politeness, because it was certain he could
exercise peculiar powers and was therefore
a man not to be offended or annoyed on
any account whatever.

This was specially old Breeches' notion,
and the rest of the men took it up readily.
For several days there was nothing much

talked about in the forecastle but Mr. Fortescue's
dream, and every man had something
to say about it in the shape of stories
he had one 2 heard. In fact, they ended in
frightening one another in yarns about apparitions,
corpse-candles, figures of drowned
seamen rising in dead calm weather at
midnight to read ships' names, then shaking
their heads with gestures of grievous disappointment
and sinking again; even Johnny
had his yarn to add, whilst Breeches, the
cook, Goldsmith and Jim Kitt related a
score among them, till the night watches
became decidedly uncomfortable and the
skipper or Stone would wonder to see the
fellows hanging about in couples.

But by degrees the superstitious feelings
among them wore themselves out. The men
would notice that the curate was all kindness
and gentleness in his way to them, that he
had always a pleasant greeting for every
man who came past him, and a friendly word
for the helmsman whoever he might be.
He'd read from the Church Service to them
on Sundays, and add a few words by way of
a sermon. Long ere this they had found out

that they were a good and willing crew, the
captain a smart hand, and Stone a genial old
seaman it was a pleasure to work under. So
after they had " yarned " one another into an
anxious and nervous condition, they "turned
to " and talked themselves out of it, all
agreeing — even the cook — that they had
never been in a more comfortable little craft,
nor engaged for a pleasant voyage, dream
or no dream.

Indeed, Johnny's carrying his blundering
tale forward proved as fortunate an occurrence
as could have been wished. For first,
it converted the curate into a very impressive
personage, not so much to be greatly liked
as to be extremely respected. Next, it raised
a curiosity among the crew as to the issue of
the voyage, and this put a spirit of unanimity
into them. Then a certain kind of sympathy
was begotten for Mr. Fortescue, after repeated
discussions in and on the forecastle,
for it was plain he was always sad and grieving
secretly ; his far-away look would be
noticed, the very smile he would give was
but as a light upon his face to exhibit how
much of sorrow was there, and when the

crew took this and combined it with their
belief that he could see visions and that he
had been spoken to by Heaven in his dreams,
and that what he was seeking was a sweetheart
who had revealed her existence to him
and shown him the island she was upon, and
which William Stone knew all about, they
felt a sort of importance, as of men engaged
in something solemn and wonderful, superior
to any kind of job seafaring men had ever
been asked to deal with.

But it took them from forty degrees north
latitude to the Doldrums to arrive at this
state of mind.

The days slipped by, and the voyage to
the Indian Ocean promised to be perfectly
eventless. They carried a swinging northwestern
through the Horse latitudes, and
picking up the north-east trade-wind, after
a couple of days of light baffling airs in
twenty-eight degrees north, swept down the
Atlantic with the thunder of the breeze that
blew a fresh gale at times in their reefed
mainsail, till they found themselves one
day creeping and crawling over a brassy,
burnished, glaring space of Equatorial sea,

VOL. II. 1-

eagerly catching every faint breathing of air
aloft or watching, with eyes which seemed
entranced by the breathless deep, for the
dimmest tarnish of draught, fainting as it
came out of the pale azure ruled by the
water-line. This was a trying time for
Fortescue. The spell of stagnation might
have been endurable to him the other side of
Africa, but here was the schooner swinging
helpless near to the parallel on which the
island lay, but with a vast continent between,
which had to be measured, and the mighty
southern ocean off Agulhas entered, before
he should be able to verify Stone's solemn
affirmation.

Both the captain and the mate must have
long ago guessed that the Equatorial belt
would be the place to tax the patience of the
man whose mind seemed easy only when the
Golden Hope was flashing through the seas,
bringing the island closer by every daring
and graceful leap she took from emerald
hollows to snowy heights, and until the
breeze came that blew them clear of the
Equator they were constantly apologising
for the weather.

Here's April the 5th, Mr. Fortescue,"
Hiram said, "and to here from latitude
forty degrees north has been such sailing
as no man with a conscience in him could
fall foul of. I allow that the run from the
Thames has been longer than I bargained
for. but what are ve Q^oin' to do when its
notion but thickness and watching' ?"

And then old Stone would say. " Well,
this here stillness, sir, ain't cheerful, certainly
; but I've always looked upon this
part of the ocean as a sort of baiting-place
for ships. It's the sign o' the Neptune,
and here vessels which have been hard
drove, whether coming from the north or
from the south, are glad to rest, as the
Golden Hope is. to recruit their health,
and dry themselves, and sprawl a bit in
the sun, like hens which ye'll see get upon
a sand heap and wallow till they makes a
hole, when they cocks a leg and a wing
out, the were picture of uneasiness, to my
way of thinking'. But depend upon it, sir,
th' Howell make up for this spell of sitting'
down. If the south-east trades be still
a-blowin', wait till the schooner catches 'em

fair on the port-bow, and then ye'll see
how far off she'll allow the Cape to remain
in a few days."

He happened to make this remark to
Fortescue in the presence of Hiram, who
exclaimed, 'what d'ye mean, Bill, by saying,

I if the south-east trades be still a-blowin' ?
What's to prevent 'em ?"

"Well, I dunno, I'm sure," answered
Stone, 'but to tell you the truth, skipper, so
many changes have taken place since I must
went to sea as a boy, that it's a sort o' defying'
of Providence not to put 'if before notions
which was formerly certainties."

11 But you wouldn't say if the sun should
rise tomorrow morning, Bill, as though you
wasn't sure ?" exclaimed Hiram, who, partly
from love of argument and partly from the
desire to amuse Mr. Fortescue, would often
engage his mate in discussions of this kind.

11 Why, perhaps not," answered Stone,

II 'cause if the sun didn't mean to rise tomorrow
morning, we should be froze to
death afore we could speculate on his intention.
But it's another matter with winds,
which, if they be governed by laws, don't

seem to understand 'em. When I was must
going' to sea the north-east trade always
blowed more northerly than it do now, and
the south-east trade more easterly. Things
are h'alterin'. I don't see how they can help
it. Take this here globe. Astronomers say
it's gaining' in matter. Consequently, it must
be grown' bigger. Very well. Now, take
the sun. Astronomers say it's slowly consuming
of itself up ; I think that likely, for
certainly in England it ain't so hot in
summer as it used to be. Now, it's plain tome,
if the earth's grown' heavier and the
sun's getting' smaller, our orbit's a-changin',
which must likewise alter the winds. In
fact, my notion is, Mr. Fortescue, that in the
course of ages this here globe'll run short o'
water and be dried up and become like the
moon. Who knows that there ain't astronomers
in some of the planets watching us
through telescopes as we watches them, and
calculating from records their ancestors kept,
that if this here globe keeps all on as it is, in
so many millions of years it'll be like the
moon, without a visible stern, notion but
face, and that all froze up ?"

To which Hiram replied, k< Why, that maybe
; for who's going' to guess that'll happen
millions of years hence, and, indeed, Mr.
Fortescue, who wants to know ? If there isn't
to be no trade-winds in them times you'll
find other laws operation' which'll answer
jest as well. I'm not a man to be interested
only in the years I may live in. I'm willing
to feel concerned in what may happen down
to such time as a man's great grandchildren
are old men and women, but after that
things must become troubles to them as ain't
now born nor likely to be dreamt of for a
long spell. D'ye see, sir? No se of talking
with Stone here of millions of years. If
the south-east trades last my time I shall be
satisfied, for there's no chance of my young
'uns takin' to seafaring', for the best of all
reasons — I ain't got any."

A BRIEF HALT.

If there was little enough to interest Fortescue
in such conversation as this, there should
have been plenty to amuse him in the faces
of the men : Stone earnest and sympathetic,
chiefly to be remembered by his hook-like
forefinger with which he seemed to score his
observations upon the air, and his rugged
features ; Hiram, jaunty, with a certain
cocksureness about him, and a laugh like a
neigh, and a smile like the mouth of a sack.
It was terribly hot in the cabin. The
ordinary seamen kept the quarter-deck damp
with swabbing, but the moisture broke away
in steam, and the pitch in the seams was as
soft as warm cobbler's wax. Fortescue lived
on deck, and would stay far into the night,
but only to reappear pale and unrefreshed
from a short spell of sleep in his bed below.

The repose of the mighty ocean was wonderful,
almost terrible, to him in those hushed
and stagnant days. When there was a stillness
in the schooner he would sit listening to
the silence betwixt Heaven and water with
his thoughts full of Agatha. She was the
seminal principle that centred all he viewed,
all he thought of, till his visionary character,
his quality of mysticism, found her ideal commingling
in the radiant blueness of the day,
the sparkling darkness of the night ; for his
love and grief and hope made her the soul of
all that his eyes rested on, and he beheld her
everywhere. The roughest sailor forward
would notice the rapt gaze he'd fix upon the
liquid light-blue line that defined the junction
of the sky and the ocean, and, knowing the
curate's story, guessed he was fancying he
saw the island with his loved one upon it.

But the impatience excited in the curate
by this interval of calm could not check
deep and melancholy and even superstitious
thoughts. Night-time would give fancy its
keenest edge, when with murmuring canvas
the schooner lay swaying on the cradling
swell under the velvet-black dome that

glittered with stars, and that was clouded
with diamond-dust, and that was radiant with
meteoric shootings, the bland beauty of moon-like
planets, and of orbs which the eye of
Fortescue had never before beheld. Then it
was, when the silence of the dusk had
entered like a deep peace into the ocean
hush, when no voice sounded forward, no
footfall aft, when all lights were hidden or
extinguished save the binnacle lamp that
dimly gilded the statuesque figure of the
helmsman, when the motionless form of
Captain Weeks or the mate leaning against
the rail was distinguishable only by the stars
his figure blotted out, when the rustling of
the canvas on high and the light pattering of
dew discharged from gaff, yard and boom,
from reef-points and bolt-ropes and whatever
else the midnight hidden swell could shake,
sounded like the murmur of wind, the falling
of raindrops among trees, then it was that
Fortescue's imagination would take wing and
pluck from the seen and the unseen such
fancies that if the rough and homely sailors
forward had gathered their nature, their
sympathy must have been changed again

into fear, and one might have heard of something
like a mutiny founded on the time-honoured
tradition of Jack's dislike of sailing
with a parson aboard.

It was on the third and last night of these
days of calm that a thing happened which
might make one suppose Nature was in a
conspiracy with God knows what, against
Fortescue's peace of mind ; as though
startling him with an amazing dream,
agitating him by the sense of prophetic
sight, raising a desire of wild hurry in
him, then thwarting him by hushing the
atmosphere and smoothing every wrinkle
out of the deep, fell short of her intentions
towards him. It was six bells in the first
watch — eleven o'clock at night — an hour of
supreme calm, the large stars shining fiercely
as if their flames excited their fullest power
in the motionlessness on high. The light
swell was so regular that little save a
feeble flap from aloft, a thin straining noise
of hastened gear, indicated the rocking of
the tall and pallid fabric in the air. The
schooner's decks were in deep shadow, for
the cabin lamp was extinguished, there was

no haze on the skylight, and forward it was
all inky blackness from the added darkness
of the sails' shadows there. One of the
watch on deck leaned against the forecastle-rail
; you could see his figure against the
faintness of the starlight over the bulwark.
All stun sails were in, and the vessel lay
under plain canvas. Sawyer dozed at the
tiller, and Stone, who had the watch, was
softly pacing the deck smoking a pipe, having
had a long yarn about the island, the
voyage to it, the Merula's boats and the
like with Fortescue, who had gone to the
side and there stood lost in thought, with
his hands upon the rail that was crystallised
with dew, bright as diamonds with the starlight
upon it.

On a sudden a thrill rang through the
whole length of the schooner. It was like
the shudder of a human frame ; utterly indescribable
in its effect as a sensation in
those who felt it. There was a moaning,
too, in the air — at least it seemed to have
its echo overhead — that was like the sound
of a great wind rushing up the sea on the
other side of the horizon.

What's that ?" cried Sawyer, at the helm,
startled into full wakefulness.

Fortescue rah over to Stone.

"The schooner's touched — if she ain't
ashore !" roared a voice from forward, and
the hurricane note, as it was flung back by
the sails and went dying out upon the sea,
instantly put an element of fear into the
wonder that was felt.

"Touched be hanged!" shouted Stone,
greatly excited. " Isn't this the very deepest
part of the two oceans? Hark ! Is that wind?
Listen, cuss ye, Sawyer, can't yer, till I
find its direction ?"

But ere the pause could make itself felt
upon the ear there was another shock, this
time almost violent, as though the schooner
were actually touching and grinding her keel
through it over a rough bottom. You heard
a rattle of crockery and glass, the telescope
that Fortescue had put down on the skylight
rolled off it on to the deck, and an
uneasy groaning noise was uttered by the
cocks and hens in the coop, similar to that
they make when a large bird flies over
them. The watch below tumbled up

through the scuttle with the hurry of men
who, believing their vessel to be sinking,
do not stop to dress. At the same moment
Hiram came flying out of the companion-hatch
attired in his drawers and shirt, so
that he would have presented a very picturesque
figure, only unfortunately there was
nothing but the starlight to see him by. All
hands were talking and questioning, and the
growl of their voices, full of consternation,
filled the air, when Hiram, in one of his
splitting, husky yells, cried, 'silence! I
want to hear what's happened ?"

Just then, as if in answer to the seaman's
inquiry, there was a third shock — a vibration
to sicken the most nautical stomach because of
its exceeding uncommonness. Again, where -
ever there was crockery and glass there was
a rattling ; again the live stock delivered
their melancholy, affrighted note ; a shudder
seemed to come down from the masthead
through the trembling sails into even* plank,
beam, and fastening of the Golden Hope,
and two or three rough voices forward roared
out hoarsely, "We're ashore!" whilst there was
a rush to right and left to look over the side.

'get a cast of the lead, Mr. Stone!"
bawled Hiram; and sniffing noisily he turned
to Mr. Fortescue and exclaimed, " Ain't the
air full o' gunpowder ?"

I notice a smell as of sulphur," exclaimed
the curate.

Snuffling hard and expectorating likewise,
Captain Weeks went to the side and then
noticed that the calm was absolute and the
schooner as utterly at rest as ever she could
be moored in a river. This being so it was
plain to him that even were it conceivable
that such a thing as a shoal existed hereabouts,
the vessel could not have struck and
dragged herself over it, though that had been
the exact sensation produced by the shocks.
Meanwhile, Stone had dropped the hand-lead
overboard, and of course, the whole
scope of it yielded no soundings. The well
was also tried, and not a drop of water found
beyond the usual draining, at which the
pump sucked. The cook had lighted a lantern
and brought it aft, and to it came the men to
hear what Hiram had to say — a picturesque
congregation, scarcely dressed, some of them
directing their eyes, which gleamed in the

lantern light, around the sea, most of them
spitting and snuffling as Hiram did — Hiram
who was now visible in his airy costume ashe
stood with Stone and Mr. Fortescue near
the skylight.

Blooming' rum smell this !" growled
Breeches, making as much as he could of
it by coughing and sniffing.

If," said old Stone, slowly. " I could see
e'er a vessel in the neighbourhood I should
have reckoned she'd fired a gun ; only there
was no light."

Surely," said Mr. Fortescue, in a voice
that sounded like a flute for melodiousness
after the throat-hoarseness of the seamen's
tones, "those shocks must have been produced
by a submarine earthquake."

"Ay' exclaimed someone, "but what's
amain' this here stink ?"

"If it's an earthquake," remarked Goldsmith,
"it'll ha' killed a vast o ; fish and
corrupted of 'em right off. It's them that'll
smell, then."

"You may be right, Mr. Fortescue," said
Hiram, "yet I don't see how a quake's a-going'
to make the schooner feel as if she'd taken

the ground. Water ain't like birth. All a
quake could do would be to raise a bit of a
swell, and that 'ud set the schooner rolling',
but the feeling' in the cabin was as if she wur
scraping' over a bed o' barnacles."

Same in the fo'ksle," said one of the
men."

Just then there was another thrill, faint r
but most unpleasantly perceptible.

Did ye feel that?" was sung out in a
chorus. A fresh fold of sulphurous air seemed
to rise off the water, and old Breeches, in his
alarm, forgetting the presence of Mr. Fortescue,
cried out, "Cuss my eye? if I don't
think the schooner's ashore on the top of
some blasted wolcaney."

He had scarce said this when a great
yellow flame shot up out of the ocean about
two miles distant, as it was reckoned, on the
schooner's port-quarter. It was like the
flash of a very large gun, and the ear was
instinctively bent to catch the report. But the
sound that followed was very different from
that of an explosion of gunpowder. The
huge light came and went in a breath,
obscuring the stars and whitening out the

sea into a surface of splendour. It dazzled
the sight of those who happened to be
looking in the direction of it, but others
who had turned to where the light had leapt
from could easily distinguish at once a mass
of vapour rising dense and denser out of
what was apparently a circumference of
boiling water, so white that it resembled
moonlight upon the sea there. Boiling it
was, for you heard the seething of it and
could watch the steam rising and spreading,
blotting out all the luminaries low down and
turning them wan in a dim and sickly green,
where the vapour rose into thinness so that
you could see through it. In a moment or
two the first of a succession of black swells
took the Golden Hope, and she rolled heavily,
putting her rail down to it almost, with her
crew holding on, lost in amazement and many
of them unnerved. Boom and gaffs swung
savagely, the canvas snapped at the sheets
with the sudden heaving, the tiller swept
athwart like a scythe, and it was lucky the
fellow whose "trick" it was had let go and
come away from it a few paces ; the crockery
rattled and broke in the cabin, and the

VOL. II. G

effect indeed was like lying becalmed in a
mountainous swell after a gale of wind that
has dropped on a sudden.

"Well, I'm blest!" cried Hiram, holding
on to the companion and exhibiting, through
his meagre clothing, a figure in perfect
keeping with this strange, terrifying commotion.
The fifth, last, and certainly the
heaviest swell passed, sweeping up the
schooner and heaving her down till you
heard the water pouring over the gangway
rail. Then, after swaying a bit like a
pendulum, she settled steady and upright
on the perfect calm again. The white water
had vanished, the sound of seething was no
longer audible, nothing indicated that a
volcanic eruption had rent and whitened the
breast of the dark and silent ocean, save some
thin wings of vapour hovering over the spot
and fast dissolving against the stars. But
the smell of sulphur was extremely strong
and offensive, and though the colour and
nature of it could not be gathered in the
dusk, it was certain that some sort of stuff
coated the water for miles, for it hid the
phosphorescent sparkling, it concealed the

starlight in the sea, and the deep lay under
the heavens perfectly lustreless, yet with an
glimmering faintness upon it, a sort of
wanness that was without the least sheen, so
that it had a stranger and more unearthly
aspect than had it been of a dead and
leafless ebony.

"Well. I'm blest !" repeated Hiram, after
what seemed a long pause, during which
all hands had been staring around them,
listening and watching.

I hope we ain't going' to have more o'
this," exclaimed the cook, in a broken voice.
"I've been to sea a good many years, but I
don't know as ever I heard tell of the likes
of such a bust up as this !"

It's a volcanic eruption," said Stone.
41 Not very common, I essay, though it's
happened often enough to satisfy us that it
ain't peculiar to this schooner. It's fire
breaking' out of the middle of the globe
through the land at the bottom of the sea."

11 You may tarn it fire, Mr. Stone," said
Breeches, nervously, " but it can't be such
fire as ye gets ashore, otherwise the water
'ud put it out."

Maybe it's the sort o' fire that burns in
that there objectionable place where there's
no salvation going?" exclaimed Kitt, forcing a
laugh.

11 Look here, my lad," cried Hiram, turning
towards him, "you jest shut up them
jokes, d'ye hear ? Why, what d'ye call herself,
I should like to know, to be making
fun over a job that, if it had taken place
under the schooner instead of two miles off,
would ha' clapped a stopper on the whole

of us r

I've always said there's too much of the
Jack Sudden about Jimmy," said Breeches.
Wish a breeze o' wind 'ud come and blow
us away from this part. Why, as the capt'n
says, the bust up may happen right under
us the next time."

If there should be another eruption the
chances are a million — nay, millions — to one
against it occurring under the schooner," said
Mr. Fortescue. " Only consider, men, the
vast area of water we float upon, and how
minute aspect we are in comparison."

"The gent's right enough there," said young
Joe Hall, and more comforting emphasis yet

was furnished to Mr. Fortescue's assurance
by observations from Hiram and Stone.

Essay," exclaimed Breeches, "if it had
been daylight we'd ha' seen an island hove
up among that bilin'. Anybody see anything
like an island ?"

All hands stared, but to no purpose.

This here smell puts me in mind o'
London, when the weathers thick there,"
said Duck.

More like a factory where they makes
lucifer matches," observed Hiram. "William,
have ye a bit o' baccy about you ? I've got
no trousers on, and ha' been wondering' where
my pockets was gone to."

He was provided with a quid, and on the
suggestion of Mr. Fortescue, the boy Johnny
went below for a bottle of rum, a "tot," or
gill of which was served round, greatly to
the satisfaction of the men,

The crew hung about the decks till eight
bells — midnight — during which time no
further shocks were felt. By then the smell
of the sulphur had become faint, and the
stuff — whatever it was, if it were not lava —
had thinned off the surface of the water so as

to permit here and there a gleam to show in
the brows of the slight undulations and to
reveal points of mirrored starlight. At this
hour a line of darkness, deeper than the
shadow there, was visible in the east. It
proved a merry wind, sweet as milk, and the
crew drank it in as a cordial, whilst the
schooner, leaning from the breeze, glided
over the ripples, finding fire again in the sea
as she dipped and sheared through the water
with her knife-like cutwater.

They took the south-east trade-wind in
the latitude of Ascension, and not sooner ; so
that Hiram was beginning to think that old
Stone was right in putting an "if" before
these and all other kinds of winds. In fact,
the captain had so long awhile past been
accustomed to the fruit trade of the Azores
and Mediterranean, that he had forgotten a
good deal about the southern hemisphere,
and had counted upon finding the trade-wind
blowing close to the Line. But when it
came at last it proved a grand wind, with
weight enough in it to let the schooner carry
all plain sail, and through it she slashed like
a yacht in a racing match, heading something

to the eastward of south from the longitude
of about twenty-six degrees west.

These were fine times for Hiram, Stone,
and the men. All needful jobs were for the
most part trifling, and it was more like old-fashioned
whaling than anything else for the
manner in which the Golden Hope was left
to be blown along. Sometimes they would
speak a ship homeward bound, that is, they
would make the schooner's number to her
and hoist the necessary nags to tell how
many days they were out and to say that all
was well. For though to Mr. Fortescue.
Wyloe seemed as remote and unattainable a
place from the middle of the South Atlantic
as the centre of the Antarctic Circle might
seem to a Greenlandman, yet he was willing
to believe, on the testimony of Captain
Weeks, that any news signalled to a ship
would be as sure to reach Wyloe Vicarage,
providing the vessel was not lost on the
journey, as though it were a letter posted in
London, and it pleased him to think of the
simple, admiring wonder Mr. Clayton and
others in the little village would feel when
they heard from Wrotham & Co., or from

Mr. Salt or Mr. Outer that the last account
received from Mr. Fortescue was, he was
heading southwards for the Cape of Good
Hope at the rate of nine or ten marine miles
an hour.

Or sometimes they would overhaul a vessel,
never finding their match, except once, which
brings us to an incident.

Then, the overtaking craft was possibly
one of the biggest full-rigged ships at that
time afloat, if not the biggest. She was
made out on the weather quarter at sunset,
a mere blood-red spot ; and next morning
after breakfast, in the forenoon watch, she
was about a mile-and-a-half to windward
right abeam, an immensely long ship,
painted green with a narrow white streak.
She had staysail poles, the maypole long
enough for a mainsail which, when used,
was set flying, staysail-booms on the 
and crowds of staysails between
the masts. She was going through it like a
harpooned whale, all fury and thunder. There
could be nothing in steam, as it then was,
to rival the powerful thrashing of that long
clipper ship through the wide Atlantic surge

as she inclined her pyramids of storming
cloths towards the Golden Hope, and swept
her towering, beautiful, fragile heights of
staysail-masts along the greenish heavens of
the horizon, out of which the trade clouds
were trending in steady processions into the
north-west.

There was too much beauty and majesty in
the sight to suffer any sense of mortification
to be felt aboard the schooner by that
ship's eclipsing speed. Mr. Fortescue stood
watching her for a whole hour until she was
well ahead, deeply fascinated by the noble
ocean picture she made with the white
water streaming from under her counter like
the foaming backward from a great paddle
wheel, and her leaning canvas like squares
of gleaming vapour shot with shadow into
the fluctuating tints you see in satin or the
coloured shining you get in the whites of
certain sea shells, and the glittering rainbows
which would flash in segments upon every
crystal smoking upheaval of spray on her
weather bow, and the incessant sparkling of
glass and bright-work along her decks and
lengths like flashing of musketry, with

the American ensign pulling at her 
and her fore and mizzen-royal
- yards, and her main staysail - yard
crossing the topmast spars at an angle
with Heaven and ocean, whilst every bowline
went forward taut as a rod of steel
from the bolt-rope, and every shroud and
backstay and halliard came down to windward
dark and stiff as the bars of a lion's
cage.

There could be no jealousy, no rivalry.
Perhaps, also, Hiram guessed the Golden
Hope was being watched and admired by
more than one eye on board the flying
ship capable of appreciating the beautifully
moulded hull of the schooner that, being to
leeward, would naturally show the yellow
sheathing and the best of her charms from
the stem to her helm-port, together with her
own heights of finely-cut and perfectly-set
canvas ; whilst there was her speed, too, to
wonder at as she fled with dancing motion
from sea to sea, like a bird on the wing,
brushing for mere wantonness the heads of
the surges that the light of the snow she
dashed from them might be like laughter to

accompany her in her indescribably graceful
movements.

Weeks would suspect this, I say, and
rightly. But, out sailed as the schooner was,
the great ship could only be to him a source
of wonder and admiration, an object to point
at with a seaman's pride both for her going
qualities and the majesty of her appearance,
and as one of those higher illustrations of
sea-life which a landsman must look at to
understand.

Ah !" he exclaimed, with a deep sigh,
bringing his eyes away from her to Mr. Fortescue
and then peering at old Stone, who
had come on deck and was inspecting the
ship with critical regard, " Sunrise and
sunset an' moonshine and the likes of them
effects are poetry — things proper for rhymes ;
but such a craft as that is to my mind the
naturalist beauty of the ocean and the better
for not being able to be wrote about in
were. There's ne'er a one as can make
'hull' answer to 'gull' but what can indite
whole fathoms of were about the moon shining'
on the sea and the tempest ravin' over the
bilin' ocean. I've met with yards o' such

stuff in the papers — specially in the Yankee
journals. But when it comes to a ship — to
what I call the naturalist object of the sea —
why, poetry's done ! Ay, it is, though.
There's notion to be said. A man can only
look, an' if a chap was to let his hair grow as
long as a Chaneyman's tail, in the persuasion
that it's long hair as helps the brain to make
rhymes, he'd still be as fur off from being
able to describe such a ship as that, in a
manner fit to please a sailor or anyone who
knows what a ship is, sailing' along like her
yonder as — as — well, as fur off as he ought
to be, for we don't want no poetry at sea
unless it's words you can sing out when you
pull and haul."

But what d'ye mean by poetry, Hiram?"
exclaimed Stone.

14 Rhymes," answered Hiram, " wrote in
sing-song. Ain't that right, sir ?" addressing
Mr. Fortescue.

Poetry is the way you look at and think
of a thing," answered the clergyman. " To
many this sea is just salt-water and nothing
else ; for others it holds meanings as deep
as the word of God."

'well," said Hiram, contemplatively staring
at the sea with his protruding eyes, " I
essay it do. It has a many meanings to me
mostly in shipmates as have perished in it,
in the perils I've run on it, the food I've
eaten, the work I've had to do. Would you
call that finding poetry in it ?"

"Yes," answered Fortescue, partly amused,
partly touched by the queer-looking sailors
simple, earnest manner. "It is more than
salt-water to you, you see. Poetry is what
human feeling gives to the universe and
interprets out of it again. When a man
thinks of the cradle he slept in as a baby, his
thoughts are not of the basket and the
mattress of down, but of the Heaven-like
innocence of his infancy, the sweetness and
purity of his sleep in that little crib, the
loving mother's face that bent over him, the
fancies kindled in her as she rocked the
cradle, humming softly. It is memory and
feeling which enable a man to find a perfect
poem in the bare, broken-down cottage in
which he was born, though he should come
from a stately home of his own to view it ;
which enable a sailor to find romance, ay,

and even matter for tears, in the old, dark,
grimy forecastle in which he first went to sea,
when life was young and hope bright and all
things a delight and pleasure to him."

Ha!" said Stone, fetching a long breath,
that's my notion. That's poetry. No
rhymes in that, Hiram, wrote in sing-song.
I've got a whip of hair below in my chest.
I've had it thirty-five year. No matter how
I came by it or who it belonged to, but I
tell yer, Hiram, I couldn't open the paper it's
wrapt up in and look at it without given' all I
know to be able to cry. It is but a bit of
hair, mate, and as hair — as a bit of mere hair
why should it serve me as I say it do if it
wasn't as Mr. Fortescue says, that we puts
our feelings into things and calls the
extraction of 'em poetry. An' poetry it is.
There's no mistaken' of it for anything
else."

Well, I suppose it is," said Hiram,
picking up the glass for a look at the ship
ahead, feeling Stone's superiority to him in
his capacity of emotion and of definition, and
therefore changing the subject. " How well
that vessel lays up, Mr. Fortescue. Her

yards are almost fore and aft. I reckon all
hands must have taken that there lee mainbrace
to the capstan to bring the yard as it
lies."

SMARTLY MANAGED.

The early morning sun flashed joyously.
The trade clouds, masses of soft, white
vapour, every one of them as full of fanciful
shapes as glowing coals are of faces,
poured with a certain slowness that rendered
them majestic out of the horizon, the sea
looked to have innumerable tints with their
shadowing, the deep was a dark-blue,
rolling in long white crested waves, out of
whose liquid slants a swarm of flying fish
would sparkle in a glittering shower scarcely
distinguishable from the silver lacework of
foam in which they'd vanish, the schooner
seemed to be instinct with the spirit of the
morning, and there was something of the
glad gambolling of a sportive fish in her
manner of rolling upon the swell which
underrate the surges, and which would heel



her again and again to her wash-streak,
when it and the surge and the full blast of
the joyous shouting trade-wind in the tall
expanse of her canvas combined their forces
at the same instant upon her.

The ship was now about 
ahead of the Golden Hope, whose
copper forefoot appeared to smite the tail
of her wake, so dead on end she was. So
small was the schooner's appreciable loss
in this running, you would have needed
to wait a bit to find out how the case
stood, whether the Golden-hope was overhauling
the ship or whether the ship was
leaving the Golden Hope. Mr. Fortescue,
Hiram and Stone stood together on the
weather quarter looking at the vessel.

She sweeps through it fast," exclaimed
the clergyman, ll but our schooner clings to
her nobly." •

It's taken her all night to catch us up
and pass us," said Stone, with a triumphant
glance aloft.

11 Well, I know by the vast difference in
size and the trifling difference in speed between
the vessels," said Fortescue, " that I

VOL. II.

could not have done better than this schooner
if I had spent ten times the money she has
cost me." Stone looked gratefully at him.
Pray God our mission may be as true as
the Golden Hope is true to it ! How sweet
and cool this wind is ! Is there a like breeze
in the Indian Ocean ?"

4 ' There is, sir," replied Weeks.

How does it blow south of the Equator?"

Why, from October to April it's northwest,
then south-east as this here trade is for
the rest of the time," said Hiram.

Would the island — Stone's Island — be
within the compass of the trade-wind ?" asked
Fortescue, with the nervous hesitation he
repeatedly displayed when asking questions
respecting the island, a nervousness that
tended to keep Hiram constantly in doubt as
to Fortescue's sanity on this one point.

W r hy, yes, no doubt it would," replied the
skipper, who was not sure, his acquaintance
with the Indian Ocean as a navigator and
student of it being extremely small, and who
therefore answered to please the curate.

Fortescue looked at Stone.

11 It's hot, as I told yer, sir," said the old

sailor. " But ye gets draughts and winds
and storms."

44 It's this steady, cooling, pouring air that
makes me ask the question," said Mr. Fortescue,
turning his face full to the gushing,
glorious sunlit wind, the brighter and gladder
for the blueness of the sea and sky in it and
for the sparkling of white water. "When I
think of those baking Equatorial parallels,
when we found it stifling even so far south as

the latitude of Ascension " He broke off

with a deep sigh.

Stone's face had the expression of a man
who is about to say a dozen comforting
things, when Hiram suddenly roared out,
"What's she up to? What's gone wrong
with her ?"

He pointed with lively excitement of
gesture to the ship, that had all on a sudden
put her helm hard down and was then in the
act of rounding into the wind, making out
the length of her in a pitching, heaving
movement, with the white wake sweeping ina
curve to her glassy counter, in which the
light off the water trembled like the lustre on
the water itself. You saw the main clearness

slowly mounting, the main-royal and'
mizzen topgallant-sail fluttering, all fore and
aft sails shaking as though the whole ship
shuddered. But she was too far off for you
to guess more than that she had so much way
on her she was bound to come round on the
starboard tack, which sure enough she did,
and away to windward she presently lay,
bowing the seas, with her main-topsail to the
mast.

There was only one interpretation of the
sudden confusion aboard of her, and old
Stone, singing out, " She'll have lost a man,
captain," sprang forward and danced up
the foregoing.

He was followed by two seamen, one of
whom had barely mounted a couple of ratlines
than he shouted out, " There he is!
right dead ahead of us !"

Keep your eye on him — fix him as if
you was to be shot if you lost him !" bawled
Stone, and the old chap and the other sailor
came running down on deck.

Keep her away!" cried Hiram at the
top of his husky pipes, whilst the watch
below, aroused by the movement and cries,.

came tumbling up to see what had happened.
M Get the boat over ; cast the gripes adrift ;
hook on warburton ; pass that watch tackle
along and clap it on to the foremost shroud
of main rigging ;" and, as fast as these dislocated
orders were bawled out, was the
job done. The boat, lifted out of the bigger
boat, plumped into the water, and there she
was towing through the swirl to leeward, with
Stone and two men in her, exactly knowing
what Hiram meant to do, and waiting.

It was, indeed, a smart piece of work, all
so clever in nimble seamanship that a much
more experienced seawater than Fortescue
might have gaped with wonder at the swift
manoeuvring of the men. One moment the
boat was stowed and griped in the bigger
boat forward — the next, so it seemed to the
curate, she was in the water, held by her
painter and cleaving the yeasty waves
rushing to leeward with three men in her
and her little nose cocked high. But the
real excitement lay elsewhere. The men,
sighting the swimmer, had kept crying to
Hiram as if he did not see him but he had
motioned silence with a windmill flourish of

his long arm, and erect on the rail, gripping
a backstay, he stood conning the schooner as
she bore down towards the black speck on
the water, broad on the weather bow.

By this time the struggling seaman was
visible to Mr. Fortescue, who watched him
with that indescribable excitement formed of
yearning and terror and sympathy, which will
make the hearts of such men as he hammer
furiously in their breasts when they witness a
sight of this kind. The swimmer was bareheaded,
with black hair, and every heave of
the sea that threw him to the sun brought
out a dull flash from his wet tresses. A circle
of white floated some distance from him. A
life-buoy hove from the ship, but he did not
see it. Sometimes the melting brow of a
surge smothered him, but he'd reappear, till
you'd think you could see his face among his
matted, glistening locks, and into it you'd put
the expression of agony the fancy created
from the struggle between the man and the
mighty ocean.

"Steady!" shouted Hiram to the helmsman,
and he nourished his hat that the
swimmer might get strength from the encouragement,

whilst the crew, looking over the
rail, spoke among themselves in excited
voices subdued to hoarse whispers.

"He may sink at any second !"

Steady! he may hold out another few-minutes
!"

"God! I thought he wur gone! How
that sea chucked him up afore it broke over
him !"

Stand by to let slip there, Mr. Stone !"
roared Hiram, in one of the most splitting,
neigh-like yells he had yet delivered himself
of. " Down helium !"

The tiller was swept to leeward.

Let slip now !"

The schooner came tearing and snapping
round into the wind ; she had been steered
so as to bring the man within a biscuit's toss
from the side. As he went past, Mr.
Fortescue saw his upturned face livid with
strangulation, the configuration of his body
under water, the swaying of his legs, the
feebly-moving, but bravely-battling gestures
of his arms — it was a sight that came and
went whilst a man could draw and expel the
wild, deep breath it forced from him. But

even before the curate could realise what was
happening, the released boat, with the way
the schooner had given her, shot, with a
couple of oars out, alongside the drowning
man, and in a few moments the poor fellow
was in her whilst the schooner, flying into the
wind's eye, brought her topsail and topgallant-sail
aback and lay tranquilly rising and falling
upon the blue and frothing seas.

Saved !" exclaimed Hiram, quietly dismounting
from the rail and looking with a
smile at the curate, who, turning up his eyes
in gratitude to God, thought of the noble and
devoted courage of the sailor, anu of those
hardships, perils, and heroism of his which
oftener the Heavenly Father of all alone
sees, alone knows.

The rest was as easy as saying the alphabet
now the man was got, and a shift of the
helm and a little trimming of canvas speedily
brought the schooner to her boat, as a mother
to her child.

By this time the ship had lowered one of
her quarter boats, of a fine whaling pattern,
as smart as white and brass could make
her ; six men were in her, and one of the

mates steered. Perceiving the schooners
intentions they had evidently waited till the
man had been picked up ; and now that
he was rescued and the schooner hove-to,
the boat came to her with the six oars
flashing as they drove her foaming through
the water with the seas following her.

"How is the man, Mr. Stone?" asked
Hiram, leaning over the side.

A bit exhausted, but in other respects
middling', I think, capt'n," replied the old chap.

The poor fellow, sitting in the bottom
of the boat with his back against a thwart,
looked up at Hiram and Mr. Fortescue
and smiled faintly. There was a pathos
in that smile beyond expression. Its weakness
and the gravity that instantly followed
made it a thousand times more moving than
tears. Weeks would have had him up fora
warm and a sup of drink, but the ship's
boat was at hand, the ship herself close,
and the man was not so exhausted but
that he could wait to be stowed away in
his own bunk or hammock.

The two vessels were within speaking
distance, but nothing was said. The Stripes

and Stars flew at the ship's peak, the red
ensign at the schooner's. Close to as she
now was, the great American ship looked
grand indeed as she slowly and rhythmically
pitched upon the swell, leaning away from the
breeze, with her main-topsail aback and the
canvas on the other masts full. How crisply
each blue sea swept its glitter of snowy foam
along the low, massive, gleaming sides of
her ! The schooner lay on her port-quarter,
and every lift of the surge enabled those who
gazed from her deck to see along the ship,
under whose counter was written the word
"Columbia" — the bare pronunciation of
which is like an organ note for majestic and
high-sounding melody — whilst upon her
raised after-deck, that was more like the
top of a short deck-house than a poop, stood
a group of fifteen or twenty people, some of
them passengers, with ladies among them.
One, evidently the captain, was alone, on the
rail, holding to the vang of the spanker-gaff,
watching the progress of his boat to the
schooner.

In a very few moments that boat was
alongside the Golden Hope and the man

transferred. The indescribable Yankees
of the boat's crew's appearance was perhaps
heightened by the presence of a negro ; and
an American, possibly, could have sworn to
the very State, if not the city, to which the
mate in the stern sheets belonged, by the cut
of his nose and the curve of the jawbones
into the yellow "gotten."

'gentlemen," said he, pulling off his cap
and speaking bareheaded, whereupon Mr.
Fortescue and Hiram at once uncovered.
My captain desires his compliments and
thanks to you for your humanity. It is but
what every sailor has a right to expect from
men sailing under that flag'' and he waved
his hand to the English ensign.

"We're glad to have saved a fellow been's
life, sir," answered Hiram.

"Farewell, gentlemen," said the mate.
Shove off — hold !" He bent his ear to the
white-faced, streaming, sodden man, and
then, looking up, he exclaimed, 4< He's jest
asked me to say, ' God bless you, gentlemen.'
Give way now, lads, smartly."

The crew leaned to their oars and the
boat sprang, like a gull taking wing, from

the side of the Golden Hope, whilst Mr.
Fortescue stepped back from the rail with
a sob in his throat, for this was an ocean
incident to move him deeply, since it was
a manifestation of God's love and mercy
upon an element that was novel to him as
the scene of many thousands of men's toil,
danger, privations and death. How mighty
looked the deep to his eyes as he glanced,
for the space of a breath, around him !
How little, he thought, was man in comparison
to it ! How tender, how far-seeing
was the Eye that marked the fall of a
human being into a depth and surface so
vast! It was a natural reverie for a clergyman
to fall into, but he was speedily
interrupted by the cries of the men hoisting
the boat in over the side, and by Stone
approaching him and saying that another
minute would have settled the seaman's
business, that his life depended upon the
snatch made at him by William Breeches
when the poor fellow's face came livid out
of the froth of the sea that broke over him
as the boat approached, and that had it not
been for Hiram's manoeuvre of making the

schooner tow the boat to the man he would
have gone down.

The ocean was glorious at that moment.
You would have thought that a larger spirit
of gladness had been put into the flashing,
windy, salt and frothy scene by the deliverance
of the poor sailor from the cold and
bitter death that lay under all this brightness
and beauty. Every long line of foam glittered
like frost in the sun, the blue of the sea took
a tone of tenderness from the touching in
many parts of it, of the sailing, violet shadow
of the clouds, and the wind seemed full of
music as it blew, like the strains of a band
heard too far off to distinguish the airs,
through the rigging and under the foot of the
sails of the schooner that lay curtseying upon
the surges till the boat should have reached
the American.

A few long, hearty strokes of the oars did
this for her. The rescued man was handed
through the gangway, and in a few moments
the boat was hooked on and rising to the
davits.

Round in on your firebrands !" rang out
Hiram. 'sharp up with the yards, lads!"

And the Golden Hope was once more leaning
from the breeze and shearing in a smother of
froth out of one hollow down into another,
whilst the big Yankee was manoeuvring to
get round again and in trim upon the port
tack. As the schooner passed, the American
captain, standing on the rail, shouted with
one hand against his mouth, " We thank you
much for your humanity, and we heartily
admire your smart seamanship."

Hiram sprang on to the rail, and putting
the whole of his husky voice into an effort
that turned his face crimson and came near
to starting his eyes altogether rut of their
sockets, he bellowed, " We're always glad to
serve a relation."

It was a touch that seemed to be appreciated
; anyhow it was extremely pat to the
rationalism of that moment. Hats and
handkerchiefs were waved aft, three hurricane
cheers were delivered by the crew,
many of whom managed to show themselves
over the bulwarks and flourish their caps,
whereupon the crew of the schooner sprang
into the rigging and gave the Yankees three
British cheers in return, which were followed

in proper sea fashion by one more cheer from
the Americans. Then each vessel dipped
her flag three times to the other, the grace-fullest
of farewells, never more touching than
when the flags are the red or white of Great
Britain and the radiant bunting of the great
Republic, and beautiful as well as graceful
when the fine old courtesy has the setting of
such sea and sky, so blue, so pure, so joyous
as sparkled under, and beamed down upon,
the Columbia and the Golden Hope.

But though the schooner was the first to
start afresh, the ship was speedily after her.
She was kept a rapful, set all royal, and ran
up her fore-topmast-stunsail, and thus by
degrees crossed the schooner's wake, passing
her to leeward.

Ha!" said Hiram, laughing and addressing
Stone, "that's to please the ladies and
persuade the male passengers into a higher
idea of the Columbia's speed than they've
got by observing the time it took for her to
overhaul us."

Well, a point off till it draws on dark
ain't going to signify much when there's a
reputation to keep up," answered Stone.

"Ay," said Hiram, "an' since we've done
'em one service let's oblige 'em still murder by
enabling of them to draw away fast."

He called to the man at the tiller, " Luff
you may !" and when the fore-topgallant-sail
was half aback and the topsail lifting with
every plunge, the order was, " Nothing off!"
with the result, of course, that the Columbia
went by at a rate of three feet to the
schooner's one.

A noble sight, truly ! One vast surface of
canvas, with an echoing of wind booming out
of every swollen concavity that might have
passed for the thundering of a storm among
hills, supported by the long, slender, leaning
hull so urged by the mighty impulse of the
canvas that it was all clean cutting through
the seas with it, one endless savage shearing
and spearing of the metalled cutwater, hissing
like red-hot iron, with a tall fountain playing
in dolphin-like tints from contact of the rushing
stem with the resisting water !

And yet, spite of Hiram's friendly "wind
jamming," the royal of that noble ship were
visible at sun-down from the schooner's
quarter-deck, broad on the lee bow !

DOUBTS.

Though Fortescue was in constant association
with Hiram and Stone, yet rarely did the
curate say anything about the motive of the
voyage. All reference to it he seemed to
have left north of the Equator, if it were not,
now and again, for some light and quickly
despatched allusion to the island, such, for
instance, as he made when he asked if the
trade-wind blew over it.

Hiram and Stone, it is true, would talk
about the schooner's mission ; indeed, they
had so many secret conversations over it
that they ended in somewhat fogging one
another. For, as the voyage progressed,
Hiram would be found wondering whether
Stone's Island was not as much a dream
of the old man as was the vision that had
sent them sailing to the Indian Ocean, in

VOL II. I

spite of his former manful support of Stone's
veracity at a time when Fortescue seemed
sceptical ; whilst Stone, influenced by the
skipper's scepticism as regards the curate's
fancies, bean to think, that, after all, the
journey was a most singularly conceived
one, quite out of the way of ordinary
human ideas, with perhaps a deal more of
nerves in it than Heaven's finger.

These views slipped out from them one
day when they were off the Agulhas. The
schooner was running before a strong
westerly breeze, with a high sea chasing
her in a manner to make the man at the
tiller sometimes glance uneasily over his
shoulder, an albatross in pursuit — a noble
white bird poised on wings as trembles
as marble, inspecting the foaming furrow
with arched neck and gleaming eyes for
whatever might roll up good to eat out of
the froth — the sky piebald with clouds,
behind which the sun rained down showers
of gold, the sea-line rolling clear as glass
to the sky that whitened down to it as
though it reflected ice and snow beyond ;
and Hiram and Stone being on deck, it

was natural that the situation of the vessels,
which was, roughly speaking, twenty - one
degrees east longitude, should set them
talking about a shift of helm in a day or
two for the Indian Ocean ; because, as
Hiram had already told his mate, he had
no idea of running half way to Australia
before heading north, as was the custom
with many ships bound to the East Indies.
The Golden Hope was a schooner, and he
as skipper advocated short cuts. No
lubberly middle passages for him. "If the
sour-east wind wasn't a-blowin'," he said,
it ought to. Call Stone's Island nor-east
by north from the longitood o' thirty and
the latitood they was then a-followin' of,
and that 'ud enable them to give Madam
a wide berth and find notion in
the road to the westwards but Roddergrew
Island."

This was the programme. Old Stone said
4 yes ' to it, knowing nothing of navigation.
And certainly it was good enough, because
Hiram knew the schooner's wonderful sneaking
qualities in light airs, and powerful
weatherly capacity in head winds ; and he

would therefore disdain, as a master of a
steamer in these days might, the beaten
tracks of sober, old tea wagons which would
put fifty or sixty degrees of longitude
between them and the Cape before turning
their apple-shaped bows, towering bowsprits,
and cutters as thick as an old oak tree,
northward to the sun.

Well, they were talking this programme
over again, and Hiram said, "The voyage
has been middling smart so far ; there's
notion as yet, I allow, to disappoint Mr.
Fortescue."

"Why, no," answered Stone. "The
schooner's behaved as I told him she would :
everything's gone right ; there's ne'er a word
to be said again the crew."

But that'll he think, Bill," said Hiram,
chewing the marine cud meditatively whilst
he cast an earnest look with his protruding
eyes upon his companion, if we shouldn't be
able to find that island of yours ?"

Oh, we can't be mission' of it," said Stone.
What / sometimes think's this. That'll he
say if he should land on the island an'
discover that his girl ain't there, and never

has been there, an' that it's all a vision, just
as you believe it to be ?"

"Well," responded Hiram, "my notion's
so fixed on that matter that arguing of it's no
use. What's been occupying' my mind lately
is this, Bill. Supposing' we can't find that
island ?"

But I say we're bound to find it," replied
Stone.

"Ay, that's all weary well, but supposing'
we dort ?" exclaimed Hiram, emphatically.

Why, if we don't, we dort" said Stone,
with an indescribable sourness in his voice
and face, such as will rise from the soul of the
best-natured old seaman when he is contradicted.
" But it won't be for the island
not being where it is."

In the H'indie Ocean?"

Sartine. In the H'indie Ocean."

"Well," said Hiram, "of course I shall
sail to where you say it is ; but if it ain't
there, and if it ain't to be found by watching'
about and overhauling' the water where it's
supposed to be, I hope the fault'll not be put
down to my navigating of the schooner. Bill."

"Ye know the latitude and ye know the

longitude," said Stone, M and if ye'll put the
schooner where them imaginary lines is
drawer out upon the chart, the islanders be
close aboard if we ain't ashore upon it."

The fact is," said Hiram, rubbing one
eye and turning the other aloft to mark,
perhaps, the effect upon the canvas of an
unusually heavy hurl forward of the vessel
at that moment by a sea that roared foaming
along her sides as if it would unite its divided
smother in the bows, "this here voyage is
so extraordinary, takin' it all round, that
until I sights that island of yours, Stone, I
shall consider it as strange as Mr. Fortescue's
vision. It may be where you say it is — that
is, in the H'indie Ocean — but not in the part
I've wrote down ; and consequently if I don't
find it, I'll tell ye that'll happen. Mr. 
think you've been deceiving him,
and that what we've agreed to call Stone's
Island is all in my eye, or you'll say it's my
fault, and that I didn't know where to find
it, which may persuade Mr. Fortescue that I
dunno my business ; and so we shall find
ourselves landed in what you may call a
regular all round muddle."

11 But what causes you to take views of
this kind now?" exclaimed Stone. "Why
not afore ?"

Because the time's fast coming when we
shall be heaving your island in sight, if it's
there to heave," said Hiram. " Besides,
where's the harm in talking, Bill ? Suppose,
as I've said, it ain't there. I don't want to
say more than Suppose,' " he exclaimed with a
deprecatory wave of his hand, seeing remonstrance
strong in Stone's face. " Suppose
it ain't there. Suppose we miss it. Suppose
we can't find it. How are we so to act and
provide, as they says in litigation', that it shall
be understood we've done our duty ?"

"What I've said I'll repeat," answered
Stone. " If you steers us to the latitude
and longitude given you, the islanders be
there ; if it ain't it won't be because it's
sunk, but because something'll ha' gone
wrong with your sextant and compasses,
if it isn't the chronometer that's out."

It was a stupid argument and, as Stone
had said, it came a deal too late. But it
took significance from the circumstance of
Hiram thinking it his duty to speak to Mr.

Fortescue ; the notion in his mind being that
whether Stone's Island was or was not as
much a dream as the clergyman's vision,
the whole voyage was so singular that whatever
might prove the result of it, it was his
business to see "all clear" for himself, so that
nobody should be able to say he had been
heated upon by delusions" — for it was in
this language he thought. It took him sometime
to make up his mind, however, and
many quids of tobacco were consumed ere
his ruminations terminated in a resolution.
It was then a forenoon watch ; after taking
sights, Hiram intended to head the ship to
the north and east for the island. He alone
knew this and was excited by it. Stone was
on deck and Mr. Fortescue. The sky was
clear, and there was a fresh westerly wind
blowing, and the schooner was making noble
way with her head pretty nearly dead east,
the long Pacific surge following her and her
square sail pulling with the driving power of
a marine engine.

The curate, seated on the skylight, was
watching with dreamy eyes the monotonous
swing of the seas, noting how the interval

between them had the regularity of the
stroke of a pendulum, as you might have
told by counting during the sternwards heave,
the leaning poise, the lurching leap across the
half sea between, and then the dip of the nose
of the schooner into the whiteness swirling
out all around her bows ; and he was admiring,
too, if dreamily, the beautiful appearance of
glass-like eminence each billow offered, as it
rose in a pure blue fold till its attenuated
height let the sunshine strike a colouring
of gold through it, ere, with that exquisite
arching of brow you must go to the mighty
Pacific to witness in perfection, it broke into
snow and came creaming to the schooner,
with the wondrous power that raised her
hidden under the yeasty boiling.

Stone stood near, looking at the dipping
canvas of a sail hull down, and a mere film to
leeward. Hiram approached. He cast his
eyes up at the sun and said, "Mr. Fortescue,
in another hour we shall be shifting our helm
for a straight course for the island Stone here
was cast away upon."

The clergyman started, turned a shade
paler, and his eyes brightened as he cried,

44 In another hour!" There was a look of
fear in his face which Hiram noticed and
thought remarkable, because he had imagined
the news he had given would have delighted
the curate. At least it seemed fear to
Hiram and perhaps to Stone, but what it
was meant much further than that, though
fear was in it ; it was the suddenly enforced
realization, so to speak, of the approaching
end of his mission. Nor could his deep
conviction of the truth of the revelation made
to him in his sleep still the agitation of the
human instincts that hoped and feared and
doubted, spite of the opiate of supernaturalism
or the soothing influence of a
profoundly confiding mysticism.

In another hour!" he exclaimed. "I
did not think we had made easting
enough. But this is noble sailing, Captain
Weeks."

"Ay, it is; noble's the word, sir. If it
ain't twelve knots I'll pay a pound a mile
for what it's under."

"What distance have we now to measure?"
said Fortescue, still preserving in his face the
look that Hiram regarded as fear.

"Pretty nigh four thousand miles," answered
Hiram, "supposing of course, Stone's Island
to be where Bill says it is."

Stone was about to speak, when Mr.
Fortescue said, in a voice in which he
could not subdue the eagerness, " How long
shall we take to sail that distance ?"

Calculation' by what we've done, you
may say we shall ha' fetched the place
where Stone's Island is marked upon my
chart by the beginning of June."

It will be a quick passage. It is a
wonderful stretch of ocean when one comes
to think of it as beginning at Gravesend,"
said Mr. Fortescue. "In another hour
you head for the island !" he exclaimed,
bringing his hands together in an involuntary,
passionate gesture.

"Yes, Mr. Fortescue," answered Hiram,
with a raven note in his voice due to his
desire to speak impressively, and addressing
the curate with his eyes on Stone, "in
another hour we head for the island. But —
supposing it airit there P"

The clergyman sprang to his feet. "What
do you mean by that ?" he cried, so breathlessly

you would have thought he had been
struck heavily on the breast.

I only say ' supposing" continued Hiram,
breathing quickly too, "because I want to
put myself right in case things should tarn
out wrong. Stone knows I respect him as a
true man from the top of his head down to the
heels of his boots ; but a man may be true
and yet be in horror. I don't say Stone is ;
but supposing' this here island of his has got
into his head as if it wur a fact, when may be,
it wur only a fancy, just as your vision, sir,
has led you on as though it was all cocksure
and's true as if it had taken place when you
was awake instead of when you was asleep.
What's going' to happen, so far as my share in
this job's concerned, when we comes to where
the island's marked on the chart, arid it airit
there ? What are ye going to say ? Will it
be put down to my bad navigation or what ?
And if we are to keep all on hunting' after it,
how long's it to be for ?"

He spoke with the same perfect tone of
respectfulness that had all through marked
his speech and manner to the curate, only he
was now very emphatic.

"Hiram," said Stone, " ye're made Mr.
Fortescue very pale, mate. It's scarcely fair
to him, as it's sartine not right to me, to talk
as you have. I'm not a man to dream. I
told you t'other day that if you'll navigate
the Golden Hope to where I've named the
island to be in, you'll find it there ; and I
took leave to fancy that when that argument
was concluded it wouldn't be given rise to
again."

I hope Mr. Fortescue sees my point. I
trust he do, I'm sure," said Hiram. "Say
what any of us may, the voyage is a fantastic
one, to be ended as you hope, sir, I heartily
pray. But there's so much that's visionary in
it that who's going' to know the island ain't a
vision too "

I'm going' to know it !" cried Stone.

"Ay, an' so you may, but aren't delusions
satisfying' to the minds that entertain them ?
Don't a mad woman, when she calls herself
the H 'empress o' Prussia, believe that she's
that party ? William, you may be the sanest
man as ever trod the decks of a ship, and yet
fancy you'd been shipwrecked, and talk about
where it had happened. Understand "

Mr. Stone," said Fortescue, in a low,
trembling voice, turning his ashen face upon
the old sailor, " you have not deceived me ?"

Sir, as there's a God in Heaven, what I
told you was the truth, and notion but the
truth."

You will swear it ?"

The old man lifted both hands, looking upto
the sky. " I swear it !" he replied, with
profound devotional earnestness of emphasis.

Why do you doubt him ?" said Fortescue,
who was trembling from head to foot and
speaking with nervous quickness to Hiram.

Doubt him, sir ? Not I. / don't doubt
him. Isn't his belief that I doubt ; but,"
cried Weeks, 'what I want to be understood
is that a man may speak the truth of a
lie — swear, and sincerely swear to something
he believes happened, but which never did
happen, and," he continued, drawing himself
erect, " I choose this opportunity to beg of
you, Mr. Fortescue, to understand that if we
don't see the island when we come to where
Bill says it lies, the fault '11 not be mine."

Let that be so," repeated Stone.

It's for me," exclaimed Hiram, " to carry

the schooner to Stone's Island; it's for
Stone to be answerable for the island
being in longitood least seventy degrees
thirteen minutes, and in latitood south ten
degrees and forty minutes ; and it's for you,
Mr. Fortescue, to be satisfied whether the
lady you're seeking' of be on the island or
not, so that all concerned in this visionary
undertaken' may feel he's done his duty."
Let that be so," repeated Stone.

THE COURSE IS CHANGED.

A dark night, that had been rendered
sultry by a thin, fiery breeze, was followed by
a leaden dawn, a calm atmosphere and a
heavy swell rolling up sluggishly and sulkily
from the westward. The sky was of the
dismal hue of slate-coloured vapour ; it was
like a seamless carpet, no break anywhere,
no darkening nor wing-like overlapping nor
distinguishable faintness in places ; it went
down over the sea on all sides, and against it
the sullen liquid swellings rose and fell in a
dusky clearness of outline like dark hills
against a grey dawn. The barometer was
low, and both Hiram and Stone exhibited
anxiety. At eight o'clock in the morning the
schooner was dipping her sides into the oil-like
folds without an inch of way upon her.
All the air you felt was from the wild swaying

of the fabric, so that the draught was
now fresh over the port rail and then fresh
over the starboard rail, and you looked to seethe
canvas full when the leavings were without
a crease of air upon their gleaming, glassy
backs.

It was the captain's watch, and soon after
coming on deck he gave orders to clew up
and lower away, saying to Mr. Fortescue,
who had followed him up the companion-steps,
il that there was no use in leaving the
sails to knock themselves to pieces up aloft
and spring a spar, perhaps, with their weight
and blows, for," said he, as he slowly stared
round the whole circumference of the horizon,
11 though you can't always git at what the
barometer means by its risen's and fallen's,
there can't be any doubt as to its predictions
when you find the mercury low and the top
of it hollow, in the eye of such a aspect as
that there sky has."

You think we shall have a storm ?" said
Mr. Fortescue.

"Well, sir, I dunno about a storm,"
responded Hiram. " Storm," he continued,
speaking with manifest contempt of the

VOL. II. K

word, " is a term that signifies notion to
the seafaring' mind, because it's applied to a
deal of weather that it don't represent.
What I consider likely's a gale o' wind :
perhaps a revolving' hurricane ; or, as I've
snowed a similar sort o' sky to that thereto
do, it may grow up into darkness, thicken
into a sorter midnight, and notion come
of it but lightning and thunder and rain."
Just as he said this the schooner was
hove violently over to starboard by an
unusually heavy swell ; you heard the fierce
straining in her heart, echoing right through
her with a thrilling from kelson to deck, as
though the masts were being torn out of
her ; there was one furious thunder-shock
of canvas followed by a stillness aloft,
momentary only, but long enough to enable
the ear to catch the weltering sounds of the
sea and the brimming, bubbling, and thick
and sluggish washing alongside ; then as the
schooner, groaning like an oak in a tempest,
came sliding to port down into the trough,
a scream, shrill as a mad woman's, clove the
turmoil of straining spars, and fastening and
rattling canvas, and timbers creaking as

though being rent, and a figure dropped
head downwards, as a piece of lead would,
from the topgallant-yard, and vanished in the
water like a flash of light, as you might have
said, from the whiteness that simmered where
he had disappeared.

Man overboard!" was yelled hoarsely by
half-a-dozen throats.

Wash ! came the schooner back again to
starboard on the send of the following
acclivity. With the breathless and wonderful
agility of a thorough-bred .sailor, Hiram was
on the rail, a life-buoy in one hand, clasping
a backstay with the other. The swell bowed
him down to the water's surface, but it was
all blank, dingy oiliness.

Aloft there ! Do ye see him ?" he roared,
keeping his eye fixed on the spot where the
man had sunk.

No !" was the answer.

"Watch all round!" shouted Hiram.
"tis a long dive; he may come up on
the larboard side — under the bows — under
the stern — watch narrowly, lads, for Christ's
sake !"

And then, " Who is it ?"

11 Sam Wilks !" was the answer.
Another roll of the schooner carried her
port dead eyes under, and then back again,
and over once more, and so on, five times,
ere Hiram cried out, " Anybody see him ?"

Ah ! one wants to live in this sort of
experience to compass the agony that silence,
following on such a question, fills the heart
with. There was no answer ; for nobody
saw the man, and there was the schooner
rolling heavily, with hands aloft staring
wildly down into the sea, and Hiram on one
side and Stone on the other, and Mr.
Fortescue leaning over the taffrail. Long
after the poor lad — he was little more — was a
corpse floating under the reeling schooner,
his shipmates stood idle, seeking him among
the leaden folds.

"Great God, Captain Weeks!" exclaimed
Mr. Fortescue, turning his white face and
startled eyes upon Hiram as he came aft,
'ris death at sea so sudden? Will not the

poor fellow rise ? Surely, surely " He

stopped and glanced at the water with awe,
that was like terror, mixed up in the grief
of his expression.

He's gone, sir," answered Weeks, flinging
the buoy clown with a savage gesture
of regret and sorrow, and speaking with
the harshness that the overstrained nerve
gives to the voice. " Bill," he called out
to Stone, "no good keeping' all on watching.
If he rose it must have been again the vessel's
bottom ; it knocked him back again and
drowned him."

A man left the topsail-yard to roll up the
topgallant-sail ; the work of snugging was
resumed even to the extent of housing the
main-topmast ; but every order was given in a
low voice, the men spoke in whispers, no
songs were sung as they pulled ; all the while
you would see their eyes looking round the
water near the schooner's sides; for it needed
time to realise the suddenness of the ordinary
seaman's death, and when it came strong in
the crew's mind, it was rendered the grimmer
and more fearful by the thought that the lad
was lying where the schooner was — under
her or close to; and this made the men's
feelings different from what they would have
been had the vessel been sailing along when
the ordinary seaman fell; for then the place

would be quickly left far astern, and consternation
have grown softer and lighter with
the sense of distance. Added to this was the
leaden, oppressive duskiness over the deep,
the sinuous horizon having the malignant aspect
of a dark and monstrous serpent writhing
round the swelling liquid arena. Indeed it
was no mere imagination that, with the
drowning of the lad Wilks, a deeper shadow
had entered the atmosphere ; it threatened to
become black as an eclipse by-and-bye, and
the strong and gurgling and bubbling rolling
of the Golden Hope, filling the air with
drowning noises, quickened the element of
fear that was found in that storm-laden, silent
dimness — that foreshadowing of tempest, with
its hush of vast expectancy overhanging the
rolling swell.

Lads," said Hiram, addressing the men,
for all hands were on deck, " we're agreed
that notion could ha' been done to save
poor Sammy Wilks ?"

Nothing," responded Breeches.

I wur on the tawps'1-yard and see him
fall," said Duck. "He struck the water with
his head, an' that might ha' stunned him."

"That, or been' smothered by risen again
the schooner's bottom," said Stone.

14 More likely smothered, as you say, Mr.
Stone, ' : said the cook. " Never heard of
a chap been' stunned by hitting' of the water
only from a yard ; 'sides, Sam was too
lightly dressed not to rise ; notion on but
duck trowsers and a shirt, not even shoes'*

"Well, he's gone," said Hiram. "Ita
bad job, but it's the controlling' of Providence,
and clean past our power o' prevention.
Go below, the larboard watch, but stand
by for a call, for ye don't want to hear
about the barometer to guess there's something'
coming."

Perhaps the appearance of the weather
helped to dull the edge of the men's feelings
about their lost shipmate ; yet a rough
sorrow was strongly visible in them, as Mr.
Fortescue noticed, in their subdued air,
their whispers, the quiet manner in which
they did whatever they were ordered to do,
and a sort of superstitious restlessness that
kept the watch below hanging about the
galley or in the head talking together,
though at another time they would have

been glad enough to turn in, not knowing,
in the sullen eye of such a heaven as was
dimming the masthead, how long they
might have to keep awake after they had
turned out again.

As to Mr. Fortescue, he was so much
affected by the sudden drowning of the lad
that he seemed able to think of nothing else.

Stone came up to him, leaving Hiram on
the quarter, looking around the sea and up at
the sky with his eyes so protruded that they
might have passed for glass, and, knuckling
his forehead, begged Mr. Fortescue to go
below and get some breakfast. "It was a
bad job," he said, " but as the crew 'ud
expect a clergyman to be more conversant
with God's ways than common sailors, it 'ud
help their spirits, he thought, speaking' of
the men forrard, if Mr. Fortescue 'ud strive
to appear as if this here drowning of poor
Sammy was God's will."

The curate looked at the old man kindly
and tenderly. It was Stone's idea, he saw,
for putting heart into him by causing him to
think of the obligation his calling lay upon
him.

You are quite right, Mr. Stone," he said.
Grief and anxiety have robbed my character
of one side of it. I see everything in
its literal sense, and Wilks' death affects meas
I grieve to think it should." But he
thought to himself, " How should it be otherwise
with a soul engrossed with human love,
and fears and hopes utterly unspiritual ?
This simple old seaman strives to cheer me
by pointing upwards ; but I have no eyes but
for that which this ocean is to reveal to me,
and I cannot interpret incidents except with
reference to Agatha."

And here, if the poor fellow had been alone
he would have fallen into a long, tormenting
reverie, afflicted his sensibility by many
dreads concerning the condition of his mind
in relation to his Maker, and so have helped
his nerves to play havoc with his brain ; but,
happily, Hiram came sliding over to him on
his long compass-like legs.

"Come what may, we're ready, sir," said
he. "There's notion to hurt in a treble-reefed
mainsail and the boom lashed, and
notion forwards but the standing-jib. It may
blow up a smothering' buster, or it may gather

weight slow, or it may pass away in mere
sulkiness with a thunder clap or two. No
tellin'. But this swell's astounding heavy.
Reckoned just now it was flattening down as
if wind was pressing on it. Maybe it's the
remains of a gale, an' I hope it is, I do. But
I'll tell 'ee what, Bill: I'd like a draught to

draw us away from this spot, damn my

Beg your pardon, Mr. Fortescue, but what I
meant to observe was, it's unpleasant to feel
that Sammy Wilks' body may be actually
again the keel, pressing of the vessel's bottom.
It's not to be supposed ; swell's too heavy, of
course ; but fancy's sometimes as bad as truth.
Think o' biting' a tart apple, and ye'll get the
spittle in your mouth out of the mere idea."

Did you know anything of the poor fellow
before he shipped ?" asked Mr. Fortescue.

No," said Hiram.

"He's got an old mother living' somewhere's
down Epping' Forest way; so Breeches told
me," said Stone.

There's scarce one of every fifty menas
goes to sea who can be told anything
about if they dies," exclaimed Hiram in
his wonderful English, and speaking with

warmth, for a chance had come for letting"
Mr. Fortescue understand that mariners
were a body worth talking about, and with
manners and habits interesting to inquire
into. " It wouldn't be right to say that a
British merchant-sailor's thought no more of
than a dog ; that 'ud be telling lies of the
dog, which is fed and cared for, and weary
often buried with a epitaph wrote over it.
But, to h'allegorise for a moment, with your
leave, sir, you saw poor young Sam drop
and danish ? That's the sailor's life — living'
hard, sarin' hard, dying' hard, and then perhaps
going' to hell after all, if ye're to believe that
what parties ashore thinks of us is correct''

No, no !" cried Mr. Fortescue. " God
forbid! No one dare thus judge the sailor."

Hiram distended his lips in an immense,
sarcastic grin. But catching Stone's eye,
which must have served as a corrective, he
sobered his expression and said, " If you was
a sailor, Mr. Fortescue, you'd find out you
had no friends. Here and there a parson,
maybe, willing' to think of ye as an uncivilised
wild beast, needing' prayers and meeting-rooms,
or some un as wants to get a name

and selects ye as a very good subject to jaw
about and git himself into print by. But
notion true in the way of sympathy. They'll
write songs about ye, they'll talk of you as a
jolly Jack Tar, they'll represent ye as a
virtuous, confiding son of a swab on the
stage, where ye're made to look notion more
than a pair of flowing' breeches and a tarpaulin
hat ; but though our calling' concerns
the British nation as it couldn't any other
country on the face of the birth, such is the
indifference, that there's not a single effort
made to look into Jack's life, to consider if
he ain't worse treated, worse *ed, worse
housed than persons convicted of crimes, to
ascertain if his lot can't be improved at sea,
and if the people he works for ain't to be
made responsible to his relations for his
death, if it come about, as it dew over andover
again, through his been' sent away in
vessels which a London sewer rat wouldn't
trust his life in."

It's all too true," said Stone, with his
face acidulated by the emotions which
Hiram's words had stirred up in his soul.
Look at the number of years I've bin

going' to sea, and what have I got to show
for it ? This !" he cried, extending the
blackened, toil-worn palms of his hands.
11 And why ? Because the few pounds I
might have saved out o' my wages I was
robbed of by captains charging' me ten
shillings for a dollar's worth "

"But," interrupted Mr. Fortescue, mildly,
'haven't sailors the character of being reckless
ashore ?"

"They've got no character at all." said
Hiram, bitterly, "landsmen won't allow 'em
any."

11 Reckless !" exclaimed Stone, " I don't
know, sir : ye hear, to be sure, of drunken
sailors, as though nobody else ever got
drunk. But they're not more reckless than
other labourers are — not half so reckless,
not a quarter so reckless. They can't be.
They haven't the opportunity. They're at
sea nearly all their time, under taut discipline,
an' working' not for bread only but
for their lives. Yet if they was ten times
more reckless than shore-going' labourers
they'd have ten times the excuse ; for look
what their lives is whilst they're afloat !

An' is it wonderful when they steps ashore
they should seek a little ree-taxation ?"

"Besides," cried Hiram, "what have they
got to be reckless over ? 'Ain't as if they
was paid off with a fortune. Where do
recklessness begin ? If it wasn't for sailors
been so open-handed and free and generous,
and so easily robbed, ye wouldn't get your
ships manned. If sailors was paid off with
enough to be worth keeping' they'd never
go to sea no more, an' then there'd be a
h'end of British supremacy, and England
would sink into the condition of a South
Sea island."

Tiller kicks fit to knock a whole ship's
company overboard," said James Kitt, who
was at the helm.

The squashing lurch of the schooner to
starboard on the side of a roller, that foamed
with its own blow to the rail, confirmed Kitt's
interruption by causing Hiram to stagger
with his hands to the bulwarks.

"Talk of buoyancy!" he gasped, angrily,
having struck his breast smartly enough to
leave him but little wind, " why, here's a
qualification that's making a mule of the

blasted Hope, a jackass, a mustang that
thinks the best way to clear these here
ditches is to fling her rider off her back.
William, we'd better get that topgallant-yard
sent down. It'll occupy the watch ; they're
thinking of poor Sammy ; their minds want
diverting, and the weather's steering enough.
You can let the stay-foresail lie as it is."
4t Ah !" he exclaimed, addressing the clergyman,
"you may depend upon it, sir, that
sailors "

But Mr. Fortescue had gone to the taffrail,
and was looking into the swelling waters,
lost in thought.

As the schooner rolled, the water would
come swelling to the taffrail with the complexion
of liquid lead, and then to the eye
of the clergyman the deep seemed as impenetrable,
as deceptive, as the firmament of
smoke-coloured gloom, the more wonderful
in its exclusiveness for its materiality, What a
tomb it is! he thought. It would be like
interment in a void to be buried in it ; and
his thoughts being drawn to it, not less by
grief and horror of the sudden drowning that
morning than by the mocking, gigantic courting

of the huge swells which raised a roaring
all about the rudder and the sternest whenever
they swept away from the schooner's
high-reared quarters, he, with imagination
always too quick in morbid emotion, sent his
fancies to the bottom of the ocean and there
roamed among ships newly sunk, upright,
with canvas motionless in the correctness
hush, dark phantoms in the dim green, silent
as chaos was ere the word of God found its
echoes in rolling worlds ; among fabrics of
weed-covered wreck, black and hard as iron,
with skeletons among them white as the
bones of the albatross ; remains of human
beings who, in unremembered and in recent
times, had died as Wilks the ordinary seaman
had ; whose life had been put out as a little
flame is extinguished by a draught of air ;
gone more completely than ever death can
make men go, ashore ! For where was he ?
Where ? In what part of this boundless, swelling
amphitheatre ? Had he died ashore he
would now be lying in a room, presently in a
grave, in a place one could point to and say,
He is there!"

Oh ! What scorn of the littleness of man

was there in the insensibility of the wide,
bald stare of the swell rising duskily to the
schooner's taffrail, as if it would mirror the
pale, dark-eyed face that overhung it as a
sample of the dignity and the stature of
human beings ! So Mr. Fortescue thought,
but with a shudder and a quick turning away
when he realised whither his thoughts were
leading him ; for no man better than he knew
how perilous is that condition of mind which
finds Nature unreflective, save for irony and
scorn and derisive contrast.

VOL. II.

A TERRIBLE NIGHT.

It was five o'clock : the men were hastily
despatching their supper ; the swell, that
had flattened somewhat after veering a trifle
northerly, had grown confused by a counter
swell rolling up from the southward of east.
This made the labouring of the schooner
abominable ; it was almost like being in a
wherry in a sea-way ; a hobbling, reeling,
tipsy motion, as if the vessel were bewitched
or had got some leviathan under her keel,
ineffectually trying to heave her out of the
sea. The fold that struck her on the quarter
had no time to cast her to its summit ere
the swell, running the other way, took heron
the bow ; and whilst she was in the act
of sliding into one trough with her cutwater,
there was another hollowing under her stern.
The oldest seaman could not stand or move
without holding on or clawing his way along,

and Johnny, the boy, fell as sick as death,
and leaned over the side. It was lucky the
schooner was in ballast and of a buoyant
and airy build. Such was the character of
the swell that, had the Golden Hope been
freighted, there was nothing in seamanship
considering the dead calm, and that she
was not therefore under command — to prevent
her decks from being swept. As it
was, her agile recovery was not always equal
to saving her, and several times large
quantities of water came tumbling over the
rail like thunderbolts, and went foaming to
and fro, smothering the decks with froth
and washing the rigging about before it
had time to escape through the ports and
scupper-holes.

Everything had long before been seen
snug ; for, though Hiram had been in doubt
as to what was going to happen, spite of the
warning of the barometer, he made up his
mind for a hurricane the moment he noticed
the cross-swells. It was five o'clock, and the
skipper was talking with Stone and Mr.
Fortescue, in tones subdued by the indescribably
oppressive character of the darkness

in the sky, and he was telling them that
he expected the gale to come away out of
the south-west, when a sort of light filtered
over the sea, perceptible as dawn and as
slow. It brightened, and presently from sea-line
to sea-line the heavens stretched in a
sickly, rusty red, tinging the water with
this hue and causing the schooner and her
crew to appear as if viewed through tinted
glass. The hills of water loomed up to twice
their real size in the unearthly light, and the
atmospheric magnification seemed to stretch
the surface of the deep to leagues beyond its
natural visible extent, through the illusive
effect produced by the radiance upon the
distant tumbling and colliding liquid hills.
The clergyman gazed around him with awe
and alarm, whilst most of the men, all of
whom had come aft, were staring aloft and at
the sea as if they imagined the Day of
Judgment had really arrived at last.

There's notion to be uneasy about," said
Stone, loudly and heartily. " So fur, I mean,
as this here light's concerned. It ain't the
sun ; it's h'eelectricity. That's well known.
Ye get these here skies and lights afore

rotation' storms. Maybe we're on the were.
I hope we are, I'm sure ; if that be so it'll
jest be a spell o' lying-to whilst the storm
goes by."

"Job is to know which tack to lay-to on"'
growled old Breeches, to whom the common
apprehension had communicated a sense of
equality. "If you scud you may run round
with it. If ye lay to you may run into it."

11 Hark !" cried Fortescue, lifting his hand.
His sensitive ear had caught a sound distinct
above the weltering noises of the water and
the straining of the vessel. There was a
moaning in the air, plain enough when once
caught, though faint ; it resembled the sound
of wind in winter among trees, heard at a
distance, or of the peculiar humming of
summer surf upon shingle.

It's like the calling' of the sea." said one
of the men.

"What you're hearing' is the storm," exclaimed
Hiram. l4 It shouldn't be hard to
hear, slipping' o'er the glass o' these swells,
if it were fifty mile off."

Do you observe how the redness lightens
in the north-east ?" said Fortescue, in a low

voice, for, if he felt alarm, yet also was
his devotional spirit stirred to its depth
by an appearance of sky and sea that was
phenomenal to his inexperienced gaze.

"An' darkening sour-west," said Goldsmith.


The man was right ; the hectic was yielding
there to black shadows rising arch-like,
with outlines easily distinguishable, whilst in
the opposite quarter the glow might have
passed for a sunset. The confused swells
came sliding along and shouldering one
another, some catching the red, wet light
north-east, some the livid, malignant shadowing
where the arch was growing. All sorts
of wild ideas came to a man watching these
coloured leavings, so full they were of occurring
and dissolving shapes. The schooner
splashed and gurgled and wallowed ; suddenly
there was a sullen growl of thunder, some
rain fell, and the redness in the sky perceptibly
dimmed as the after-glow does into
twilight, and the sea grew, ghastly. In a few
minutes there was a light air blowing from
the southward ; the main and peak-halliards
were instantly manned and the treble-reefed

mainsail set. The schooner felt the impulse
and came round on the starboard tack.

"Look!" shouted Breeches, pointing into
the sea on the lee quarter. " Great God
A'mighty ! Think of that !"

There was a rush to the side, followed by
a sort of groan, as the body of Wilks, the
ordinary seaman, was seen floating off on the
top of a swell, with his arms out and his
head under. The schooner was moving, and
the confused motion of the water rapidly hid
the body.

It's all a-comin'' together"' said the cook,
wiping his forehead.

"Is there the barest chance of his being
alive ?" exclaimed Mr. Fortescue, horror-stricken.


X.o, sir, no chance," answered Hiram, ina
deep husky note. "He must have rose
under the vessel and got caught there somehow,
till this air moving' us liberated him and
run his corpse up. He'll have sunk again.
Why the blazes," he muttered to himself,
"did that old fool Breeches want to call
attention to it at such a time as this ?"

The breeze freshened rapidly, the swell

flattened, the measly flush faded off the sky,,
and then it grew quite dark, save in the
south-west where, in the heart of the black
arch, whose topmost point was close to the
zenith, there lingered a sort of phosphoric
light, of the hue of pale sheet lightning. The
moaning in the air had risen into a dull
raining noise that rose and fell with the wind,
as it blew, at first, in light squalls. But by
this time, two bells in the first watch, the
schooner had been freshly equipped for the
encounter, and with hatches battened, all
moveable things carefully looked to, and
under a close-reefed gaff foresail, she lay
breasting the seas, which ran with a sort of
restraint in them that reminded you of
leashed dogs mad for their release.

I wish I knew more about these here
H 'india Ocean resolving affairs," shouted
Hiram, after an answer made to Fortescue.
4 The best plan's to stop where ye are, they
say, and watch events. By using of the
storm ye may be a-keepin' of it, whilst
shoving' out of it often proves to be shoving'
into it."

At that instant sea and sky were thrown

into a domed and weltering and splashing
and foaming plain of sheer blue dazzle by a
flash of lightning of vivid violet, that looked
to leap from south to north as though some
demon had hurled from behind the horizon
the first of a thousand flaming lances athwart
the heavens. It smote the sight blind for
awhile, and then, when you looked, the blackness
appeared as of midnight, full of writhing
blue fires, till the retina lost the impression ;
but about half-a-minute after the flash there
was a dead shock of thunder, a single fierce
explosion, echoless it seemed, if it were not
that the reverberation was swallowed up in
the roar of a blast of wind, furious beyond
expression, and that bowed the schooner
broadside down, stricken and inert, among
swells and seas white with spray and froth,
and like hills snow-covered.

She rose with the lull, and looked nobly
into the wind; but her movements were wild,
as though a sense of desperation possessed
her, for the swells and the surges, meeting
from different quarters, produced pyramidal
seas, cone-shaped, black heights, alive with
the light of phosphorous glimmering through

the spume, and these billows met and fell
without running, leaping up to the height of
half the schooner's mainmast, then falling flat,
with a mighty roar and a frightful whitening
of their bases. They gave the storm-heeled
schooner no chance, and in a short time
she was shipping water fore and aft over
either rail, plunging and staggering, with the
scuppers up to a man's waist when the decks
leaned down, and all of a smother forward to
pretty nearly the galley every time the water
yawned under her forefoot and let her head
drop like a chopper into it.

All hands were aft, Mr. Fortescue secured
by a rope round his waist to the bulwarks,
the rest taking good care of themselves. As
to going below, it was not to be thought of,
partly because the getting there was not very
feasible, partly because no man could have
endured to be battened down, locked up like
a rat in a trap, in weather that might at any
moment send the Golden Hope to Davy
Jones's locker. It would have been another
matter had the seas taken the brave little
vessel in the regular and familiar processions ;
then the rise and fall would have been steady.

even though the dance should have measured
thirty feet from valley to peak. But she was
like a noble hound surrounded by wolves ; to
larboard and to starboard, on either bow, on
either quarter, the seas leapt at her, hissed at
her, threw themselves upon her ; the heads of
the surges that jumped up alongside, like
columns shot upwards by volcanic action,
were blown off and swept through her masts
in storms of snow, and being charged with
phosphoric radiance, these clouds of white,
flashing through the howling blackness, formed
a sight of terror and sublimity.

The increasing fury of the wind, however,
remedied this in one sense ; at ten o'clock it
was blowing with a violence indescribable in
words, and then it was noticed that the veering
of the storm helped the huge seas it
raised, to overwhelm the westerly swell that
had opposed the coiling run of the surges,
and converted them into mad and most fearfully
dangerous jumping and falling columns
of water. The schooner now made better
weather, but few more awful and wilder
scenes had any mariner ever beheld. The
sky was pitch black ; it had been so since the

wind first grew into storm, but at eleven
o'clock you seemed to find a deeper, an
intense hue in the inkiness, such as might be
noticed in passing from a dark room into a
vault. It was as if the light of sun, moon
and stars could never shine again — as if this
furious bellowing on high, the thunder of
boiling seas, were the sounds of tempest
raving among rayless orbs, and raging
through chaotic blackness. It was the white
water, the vast, quivering masses of foam
swept through the air, the startling phosphorescent
fires which would shine in breathless
flashes in the impenetrable shadow, under
the curl of a surges' brow ere it broke, that
gave the heavens their deeper dye. With
lashed helm and under her shred of a gaff-foresail
the Golden Hope soared from hollow
to summit, from foaming height, poising her
to the full and furious weight of the tempest,
to the stagnant chasm where the canvas
napped and where you saw the veins of light
running up the oncoming liquid hill, like
wires of gold, through the throbbing patches
of foam. There was no speaking ; the men
crouched aft waiting for anything that was to

0/

happen, for there was nothing to be done.
Sometimes a squall would put an extra slap
of spite into the fierceness, sending its scream
through the bellowing, and swinging a waterspout
of rain along with it, scarcely noticeable,
however, amid the incessant slinging of
spray ; or, at long intervals, there'd be a dim
flash of blue lightning down in the south and
west, resembling a gun signal or the breaking
of a rocket. Yet now that the sea ran
with some approach to regularity, Hiram and
Stone and the older hands felt less anxiety.

It was a little past midnight, all hands
still hanging together aft, the decks full of
water, the schooner leaping out of froth on to
black summits, when there came a sun-bright
flash of lightning followed by a heavy explosion
of thunder ; then a lull, then great
clouds of rain, in the midst of which Stone
roared out, "It looks as if the centre was
close. Stand by for a chop !" But, as if in
mockery of the old fellow's prophecy, the
wind thundered down again from its former
quarter upon the schooner, blowing the rain
away. It lighted again, this time in a
whole sheet of blue ; if thunder succeeded it

was outraged by the wind ; flame after flame
shot out of the inky thickness, the sea was
illuminated for miles ; you saw the Andean
billows racing, now blue, now crimson, now
yellow, as the flashes smote the night with
these hues and whirled their zig-zag fires
upon the tempest.

"Isn't that a ship out away on the larboard
bow there ?" shouted one of the men.

If it had been clear, calm moonlight she
couldn't have been plainer, for the leaping
of the lightning was too quick to dazzle.
Now and then, indeed, the flashing would
cease for a few moments, and then the blackness
was intense ; but save for these intermissions
the sky was one wild glare of mingled
flaming darts, full of crackling sparks of awful
brilliancy that forced the form of the tempest
to reveal itself in masses and layers of vapour
flying like smoke, some to the west, some
to the north, and the ghastly effulgence
was so constant that the ship was easily
distinguishable, lying apparently on her
beam ends, at a distance of not more thana
third-of-a-mile on the schooner's bow.
Her presence put a new element of excitement

into the scene. She created a human
interest that, without softening, seemed to
take something of the ferocious desolation
out of that furious battle of winds and seas ;
the schooner was no longer alone ; no longer
the only object, perhaps, for hundreds of
miles for this* tempest to wreak its fury
upon, for the lightning to aim its brands
at ; there were other eyes than those of
the schooner's men, eyes close at hand, to
watch those upheavals of foam-capped, black
mountains, other ears to be stunned by the
mingled sounds of the gale, of the thunder
crashes, of the pounding billows, all uniting
in a Titanic uproar reverberated by the
blackness overhead, as if the firmament was
a surface of hollow, resounding and clashing
iron.

The crew of the Golden Hope, crouching
under the tall weather bulwarks right
aft, watched the vessel by the electric blaze
and shouted to one another about her.

"She'll have been running and's put
her helm down and shifted her cargo !"
cried Hiram.

"Her fore and mizzen topmasts are

gone — everything's adrift so far as I can
make out. God ! if she don't right she'll
go ! Why, she's regular capsized !" roared
Stone.

"She'll be a big ship!" bawled Goldsmith.
" But the lightning' plays hell with
the sight ! There's no judging' size nor
distance by these here devil's flames."

This modest touch of profanity, forced
out of Goldsmith by sheer excitement, was
unheard by Fortescue, who, however, was
not a man to be very easily shocked by
any number of forecastle emotions, and
their corresponding expressions at a time
like this. Indeed, he is a poor sailor
into whom a hurricane does not put more
or less of devilment. To fight the sea
you must imitate its moods.

"Why don't they cut away the mainmast
?" bawled Breeches.

Who's to know that all hands aren't
overboard ?" yelled another man.

There she lay, revealed by the lightning,
whose incessant pouring from all quarters of
the sky clothed her, as the schooner was
clothed, in a flickering veil of fire, blue, green

rose-red, sun-bright. There she lay, clearly
unmanageable, dead in the mighty troughs,
with nothing showing but the bolt-ropes of
the close-reefed main-topsail, black spider-like
lines as distinct as the shrouds, as the main-topgallant
- mast with the topgallant - yard
across, as the jagged stumps of her fore and
mizzen-masts, as the bowsprit with the jib-booms
gone, as her tall windward side with
its white band and painted ports, and as the
seas which ran in ink to her broadside where
they burst into vast bodies of foam, one after
another, one after another, regularly obscuring
her like the passage of clouds over the
moon. Great Heaven! What a spectacle to
behold by the naming multitudinous fires of
the many-coloured cyclonic lightning ! What
was the negligence of seamanship to account
for this condition of a vessel of probably
seven hundred tons, if it were not that
an injured or destroyed helm, or the shifting
of the cargo to her desperate heel as
she swept round to the surges with her
helm hard a-lee, rendered the finest skill
helpless ?

Presently, her topgallant, top and main-vol.

II. M

masts went ; you saw the towering length of
connected spars, with their yards and fragments
of canvas blowing out like hairs
swung through the yellow lightning, and it
was plain from this that she had souls onboard
of her, and that they had cut away the
weather spaniards, though God alone could tell
how they had managed to climb up those
steep decks and hold on whilst they sawed
and hacked, with the seas bursting in
Niagara-like volumes of smoke over the
vessel, and the ship herself rolling and
lifting and falling with that horrible indescribable
motion only to be felt or beheld
in a dismasted hull hove down dead eyes
under by her shifted cargo.

Still she did not right, and the schooner's
men watched her with fascinated eyes, forgetting
the situation of their own vessel,
whilst with sailors' sympathy they realised
what was passing in that beaten, drowning
fabric. But the lightning was no longer
incessant, the vast electric masses of vapour,
which had been vomiting forth their flames,
had been settled away by the storm of wind,
and the flashes, which were now of an uncommon

kind of violet fire, were irregular and
intermittent.

How many men yonder are going to
their account this night ?" said Hiram,
hollowing his hands to Mr. Fortescue's ear
to address him. " If a million of money was
offered us for the rescue of but one man, or
woman, or child in that vessel we couldn't
aim it."

And as he spoke the Golden Hope swept,
screaming, up the enormous sea that swung
its folds full at her bows, whilst at the instant
a strong flash of lightning, that laid bare the
raging ocean blue to the gleam, showed the
spot where the ship had last been seen to be
mere vacant, boiling, roaring waters.

"Gone!" shouted half-a-dozen voices at
once. Another bright flash confirmed it.

A very hell, even to Fortescue's devout
mind, was made at that moment of the roaring,
shrieking, lightning-riven blackness, by
the thought of the unheard cries which were
going up to God, the sob of the drowning
swimmer, the life that yet suffered the operations
of memory and of conscience in sinking
forms !

The curate hid his face in his hands.

The gale raged till four o'clock in the
morning ; then broke, fining down into a
fresh breeze from the south-west, with the
black canopy of the tedious and fearful night
lifting along the whole length of the southern
sea-line into a clear obscure, with a dim sort
of greenness in it, and stars shining. The
swell remained violent, but that the crew of
the Golden Hope knew would speedily subside
with the wind, and indeed by the time
that the dense masses of vapour had settled
away north-east, leaving the moon going
down a dusky red in the west with a sickly
trailing of rusty crimson under her, as though
she had been wounded during the conflict
and was bleeding, the great leavings of the
deep, the panting of its mighty heart after
its desperate wrestle with the storm-fiend,
had marvellously diminished, and daybreak
found the schooner once more heading her
course with her topmast added, and swinging
and rolling through it under whole mainsail,
topsail, gaff-foresail and a couple of jibs.

An eager, yearning look-out had been kept

by all hands for any signs or remains of the
vanished ship, but the sea had stolen out
bare, desolate, ashen and foaming to the
starlight and the dawn ; and the long silver
gleam of sunrise, sharply following upon the
heels of daybreak, merely confirmed the discovery
that the ship and her company,
whoever they may have been and however
numerous, were as utterly gone, lost to life
and reality, as any bubble alongside, breaking
as it passed. That same early beam of glad
sunshine showed the schooner as sound as a
bell aloft, just as a short spell at the pumps
and a drop of the sounding-rod down the well
had proved her tight as a bottle in her hull.
She had come through the tempest nobly,
and Hiram's eye glistened as he sent a
searching look aloft and found everything
there as it should be, unsprung, staunch and
taut. Xor were the crew much the worse
for the keen anxieties of the night and their
exposure to its fury during the long stretch
of hours. Here and there you might have
noticed indeed an added touch of gauntness,
of yellowness, of grisly sourness in the faces
bonneted by sou-western. Hiram looked as

if he hadn't shifted his clothes nor slept for a
week, and in Stone's blessedness you traced
the effects of a hurricane upon old eyes ; but
these were matters effaceable by what Jack
calls a " wash down," and by breakfast, with
a pot of coffee.

It was Mr. Fortescue who had suffered
most. His face was bloodless, his eyes the
larger and blacker for the whiteness, and
bright with the fires of a mind filled, by imagination,
with thoughts as consuming as
flames ; for over and over again when the
storm had passed, when the stars were shining,
when the dawn had broken, when the sun
had flashed his first sweet, silver message of
peace across the angry, swelling bosom of
the ocean, he was recalling his agony lest
every sea that rose, black and monstrous to
the lightning, should overwhelm the schooner
and extinguish with his own the life of the
girl whose existence he believed depended
upon his ; and over and over again he was
beholding the smitten ship broken and drowning
in the foaming vortices, with death made
horrible by the furious elemental din that
silenced the cries of the doomed, and by the

ghastly illumination that was like the triumphing
of hell over perishing human souls hidden
from the sight of the stars, and so cloaked
with horrid blackness that it might seem as
if the very eye of the Creator could not
pierce to the scene where Satan for once was
having it all his own way.

He went below, changed his wet clothes,
then knelt in impassioned prayer of gratitude
to God ; but when Hiram at breakfast with
him, observing the effect of the wild and
trying night in his face and manner, begged
him to lie down and sleep, he said, " Xo, he
could not sleep, his mind was too strained."

"Well, that's very queer," said Hiram.
If after such a job as last night I wasn't
sound asleep three minutes after my head
was down, I should ask you to overhaul
your med'cine chest for me. But I tell
ye squarely, Mr. Fortescue, that last
night's business wur the worst I ever
was in, and seeing as how the little Hope's
pulled through it, it should be making ye
feel that you've got to know, in a few
hours, more about life and the Creator's
ways of working' upon the sea than you'd

ascertain ashore if you was to keep all
on living' till ye died as old as a Scripture'
patriarch. It's enough to make a City
o' London alderman, all guts and guzzle,
take an interest in sailors, ain't it, sir ? All
a-comin'' together — must poor Sammy's drowning,
then the hurricane, then the foundering'
of the ship right under the eyes of our
golden angel, that was scorning every sea
that rolled at her, with her trumpet. Eh,
sir r

But the curate was in no humour to
talk about such things just then. Had
the hurricane blown them out of their
course ? Were they nearer the island
than when the tempest came down ? Was
there a likelihood of more foul weather or
of breathless calms to delay the swift keel
of the schooner, and postpone whatever
issue was in store ?

He had to wait till noon, when Hiram,
with his gaunt face looking bloated with
sleep, came on deck to take the sun's altitude.
Then how marvellous was the
change ! The long swell ran like folds of
liquid light to the north, the trade-wind,

soft and hot as the lips of an Indian girl,
blew abeam ; it was all a crystal clearness
of tropical light-blue sky over the
masthead, touched here and there by a
woolly rag of white cloud, and water —
azure betwixt the swells — laughing in sparkling
waves which caressed the schooner's
bows with snow-like fingers, and which
raised cool sounds all about her and in
the air.

Eight bells were made ; Hiram disappeared
; the men went to dinner ; Stone
walked the deck and Fortescue sat listless,
pale, eyes full of yearning and fixed ahead
where he deemed the island lay, and where
the clear blue of the sky met the softer
blue of the ocean — still the same unbroken
junction that it had been for days and weeks,
an ever-receding continuity out of which
nothing but faith and hope could have
crushed the mockery of iteration.

Hiram came on deck with a piece of paper
in his hand. Stone drew near.

This is where we was at noon, sir," said
the captain.

Fortescue read aloud : " Sixty-five degrees

ten miles east longitude ; fifteen degrees three
miles south latitude."

The old bucket's got the scent !" cried
Stone. " Whip among, you jade ! It ain't
fur now."

How far ?" asked Fortescue, in a voice
that trembled.

This side o' five hundred miles," answered
Hiram. He reflected. " To-day's Today,
Bill ; if this breeze lasts, or anything resembling'
it keeps on a-blowin', w r e shall behaving
your island fair in view by Friday
afternoon."

Stone took a deep breath ard suddenly
walked aft, and Fortescue noticed Hiram
watching the old sailor with a curious
smile.

The ordinary seaman, Joe Hall, was at
the helm when Mr. Fortescue read aloud
the figures of latitude and longitude Hiram
gave him, and he fluttered the forecastle nota
little, when he entered it and related that
the captain had said that if the like of the
wind then blowing held, they would be having
Stone's Island (as it had come to be termed
fore and aft) in view on Friday afternoon.

All hands discussed the subject over their
hook-pots of tea, the biscuit and the remains
of the salt meat left from dinner, which
made out their supper ; and a painter might
very easily have chosen a much less interesting
and picturesque subject for a study
than the Golden Hope's forecastle at that
time offered, for the yellow light of the
westering sun came gushing and flowing
with Equatorial intensity of splendour under
the foot of the stay-foresail, fair in a pool
of light upon the scuttle, and this effulgence,
dimming as it struck down the hatchway,
was re-echoed, so to speak, into dusky
corners by the flaring and naming wick of
the forecastle lamp, thus constituting an
atmosphere in which everything looked novel,
striking and even grotesque. The movements
of the schooner, curtseying and rolling
over the swell as the trade-wind swept into
her distended wings of square sail and
studding-sail, caused the oilskin suits suspended
against the bulkheads to swing
solemnly, and in the curious light these
tarpaulin garments resembled a row of
mariners who, in a fit of dejection, possibly

induced by weevils, had just committed
suicide.

The interior was warm, with the hot deck
overhead, and internal flavouring of the steam
of tea, the curls of tobacco smoke, and the
mingled aroma of tar, of the secrets of the
forehead, of the fumes of the oil lamp, and the
peculiar marine smell that is exhaled, through
some occult processes, by sailor's waterproof
clothes. It was symptomatic of the general
uneasiness and misgiving felt throughout the
schooner at this period of her outward
passage, that the forecastle hands should have
talked of the island they supposed themselves
to be approaching, in such a way as if they
could not make up their minds whether to
believe in it or not. They had managed to
find out, to guess perhaps — but anyway the
perception was decided amongst them — that
Captain Weeks was not at all sure that
Stone's Island had an existence; and now, as
they sat in their sea-parlour drinking tea and
smoking, their conversation took this form.

11 Lads," said Goldsmith, slowly pouring
some tea out of his hook-pot into a pannikin,
which he tilted from side to side towards the

hatch that he might see if it was clear of
leaves and twigs, " Friday ain't fur off, and if
it should come and not bring the island
along with it, what's a-going' to happen, does
anyone know ?"

"Well, as I told yer," said Johnny, the
boy, who sat smoking on a chest stowed well
in the head, and whose eyes blinked out
round and gleaming like an owl's from the
dusk there, "I heard the capon himself tell
Mr. Stone, if the island aren't where it's
supposed to be, the parson means to keep all
on a-sarchin' for it."

"Ay, that's all very well," exclaimed the
cook, " but thank the Lord there's modern
one to every bargain, and if that island ain't
where it's said to be, then Micky Anson'll
want a word with the capon, if there's to be
any marching', as Johnny calls it."

"Ay," growled old Breeches, who was
sitting under the hatch, and whose natural
sourness of expression took an inimitable
character from its peculiar accentuation by
the fluctuating shades and tones of light
occasioned by the vessel's movements,
that's all very well, mate, but what

you've got to consider is, you signed on for a
island in this here ocean, and until that
there island's corned across your bargain ain't
fulfilled up."

Had this view been applicable only to the
cook, its expression would have excited a
general laugh, but as it concerned all hands
it created a very different emotion, and
Johnny, Joe Hall, and Henry Sawyer stared
with faces of real dismay at Breeches.

Ye're wrong, Bill," exclaimed the cook.
The situation of that island must ha been
snowed afore we started. When we arrive
at the part where it's snowed to be, an' it
ain't there, then it'll be one of two things for
this here child," tapping his bare, mossy
breast with his fat hand, "either home or
the reason why we don't."

"Well," observed Breeches, who, having
delivered himself of a disagreeable opinion,
did not think it the less his duty to intensify
it because it told as much against himself as
the others; " let the island not be where
Bill Stone says it is, an' you knock off, an'
see what the magistrate's tell ye if ye have
to go to law for yer wages."

What's the good o' arguing ?" said Duck,
lighting a pipe, with an impatient puffing out
of the tobacco smoke. "It isn't proved yet
that Stone's wrong."

"Ah," remarked the ordinary seaman, Hall,
speaking with his mouth full ; "ye see, Jim,
you wasn't at the helm when the parson reads
out the figures and the mate walks aft ; if yer
had been, we'd ha' noticed the smile the capon
cast after him."

What sorter smile ?" grunted Breeches.

What's the word sinnifyin' sneering-like ?"
asked Hall.

There was a pause and much stolid puffing
of tobacco and mastication of biscuit.

D'ye mean sarcastic ?" exclaimed Duck.
I wur once along with a capt'n as was
given to calling the mate by that word when
they quarrelled."

"Well, if it means sneering-like, as I say,
it's the word," said Hall.

Even," broke in the cook, who had evidently
been turning over points of law in his
mind, "if we was bound by the articles to
make an island which ain't to be found, I'll
venture to say, hard as the law is upon

sailors, that nothing' unpleasant could follow
the crew's resolve to stop the search on the
grounds that the parson's a lunatic and Bill
Stone not much better."

"Why," said Breeches, slowly, feeling that
the others were expecting him to speak, " if
ye put it on that ground, Micky, I dunno as
anything unpleasant would follow. It's plain
enough that we're navigated on what they
calls a vision," he continued, contemptuously,
"and we're not to know that all the truth
there is in Mister Fortescue's dream oughtn't
be bottled up in a man's h'eye. Supposing' we
don't make the island, then we've got a right
to consider it's a vision too — one of Stone's
visions, and he ain't wanting' in the sort o'
piety that suffers from heels — half — cuss the
word ! there's so much slack in many English
terms that there's no hauling' of it in."

He paused that someone might complete
the word. Nobody volunteering, he proceeded
:

"Or if it ain't a what-d'ye-call-it of Stone's
it might be an intention recommended to
him by the parson's friends to tell the parson,
so as he might be persuaded to take a voyage

/ /

for his health, d'ye see ? They know'd one
another afore we sailed, and who's to say
what secret Stone keeps hid? It took him
and Hiram a long spell afore tellin' us what
was the cause of this voyage: and can any
man here, recollection' of that, say that we
know everything, up and down, from end to
end ?" He shook his head with a sour grin.
William Breeches hasn't been to sea all his
life for nothing He added suddenly, " My
'pinion's Micky's. If there's no island, the
whole voyage is a delusion, and we can
compel the capt'n to carry the schooner
home"'

The cook smiled broadly in triumph.
Johnny said : "I'm plaguey glad to hear
that ; I was plaguey afeard we should have
to keep all on in this blooming' ocean'"

"If ever we get home, it'll be a journey to
talk about," exclaimed Goldsmith, with an
uneasy glance at the bunk that had been
occupied by YVilks, the drowned seaman.
It's not often that things come together
as they did yesterday. For my part, it 'ud
have pleased me more had they happened
earlier than now. with the island within a
II. N

short sail — if so be as it's there — and Friday
atop of the bilin' to make it in ! What does
the capon want to go and choose Friday for
for making' Stone's Island ?"

"To keep toon to the voyage, Marten, to
keep toon to the voyage," said Breeches, in a
voice as hollow as hoarseness would permit it
to be.

If the parson's a man able to see a shipwreck
ten thousand mile off in a dream,"
observed Duck, "he must be a sort o' wizard.
And if that's his lay, who's to know what he
may take it into his head to raise out of the
island ? If he don't find his gal there he
may order old Davy Jones up and ask
questions of him. And stand by, Johnny, my
lad, if ye goes ashore, for when Davy's done
with the parson he may take a fancy to you."

No fear o' my going' ashore," responded
Johnny, visibly agitated. " S'elp me, I'd
chuck myself down the hatchway and break a
harm sooner than mouse about where visions
and ghosts has been seen, and be in the
parson's power."

Some laughter followed this, but it was not
hard to guess, by the want of heartiness in it,

that the boy's remark had not struck chords
wholly unsympathetic. Anyway, it was plain
that in the forecastle of the Golden Hope the
superstitious feelings which had been excited
on the other side of the Cape, but which had
been allayed by the representations of Mr.
Fortescue's motives and mission by Hiram
and Stone, were beginning to creep and stir
again, along with the old doubts as to the
meaning and sanity of the voyage, now it
was understood that the schooner was within
three days' sail of the place where the island
was affirmed to be.

THE NIGHT BEFORE.

But whatever might have been felt in the
cabin there was not the same freedom of
conversation you found among the men.
The fact was, things were so near their
realisation that feelings were rendered too
sensitive and acute, by their proximity, to
warrant full and frank talk. Hiram especially
was reserved ; he was certain that his
calculations were accurate, and that he
would be able to sail the schooner to within
one minute of the latitude and longitude
of the island given him by Stone, but he
was again troubled, and perhaps irritated by
the reflection, that should the sea extend
bare to its boundaries when he told Mr.
Fortescue that the spot indicated by the
mate was reached, he might be suspected
of inaccuracy as a navigator, and the

burden of the failure be laid upon his
shoulders. For unhappily there was no one
on board who could confirm the correctness
of his workings ; and you saw how
this consideration harassed him when he
stood on deck, turning his protruding eyes
upon the crew, or directing his gaunt face
seawards with a troubled expression, as
though thirsting for the companionship of
a vessel to enable him to prove his figures
by comparison. Nor had old Stone much
to say ; indeed, a wooden look came into
his face, and he'd walk the deck with a
regular see-saw swing, with a halt aft to
glance aloft, then a halt forward to stare
to windward, all in a mechanical way that
proved it was habit controlling him.
Indeed, his stolidity and far-away moods,
so to say — for you couldn't speak of dreaminess
in such a man — were exceedingly disturbing
to Hiram, though it was out of the
question he could challenge the old sailor's
sincerity until the indicated situation of the
island was reached, even if, by so challenging,
he felt he could make him own that
he understood he was under a delusion.

It was curious, however, that the sceptical
captain should have found something like reassurance
in Fortescue's behaviour ; that is
to say, in finding the curate on the Wednesday
afternoon in the cabin, overhauling the
contents of the box of female wearing apparel
he had brought with him. It might be that
his own anxiety that the voyage should prove
absolutely successful in all ways, made him
willing to put some hope in the clergyman's
profound confidence in the truth of his
dream.

"Ha!" said he, dragging at the mat of hair
under his chin, " you've got a proper assortment
there, sir. None too much, if so be —
well, none too much, I daresay, anyhow.
How long will the lady have been on the
island ?"

Nine months," answered Fortescue, in a
subdued voice.

"An' which 'ud ye rather, Mr. Fortescue —
that ye should find her when we makes the
island," said Hiram, gulping at these words
and asking the question merely to get some
hope out of the clergyman's conviction that
Stone's Island was real, " or that she should

o

have been taken off by some passing ship
long ago ?"

11 Oh, the latter, surely, Captain Weeks ;
yet one would want to know it. But what
chance — the ocean tracks are as well beaten
as roads ; the island lies out of the highways,
and then being a little rock " He

checked himself, and added, "There are not
many hours now betwixt us and the truth."
And he closed the lid of the box with a
violent shudder.

Hiram thought it his duty to cheer Mr.
Fortescue by being lively.

It's curious the number of garments
women wears, sir. They're like full-rigged
ships 'alongside schooners, as compared with
men. They piles their canvas high, and it
comes low down, too ; call it skysails to
waterfalls. If you was going to the relief of
a man, a shirt, a pair o' pants, and a coat 'ud
be enough, but here's a chest full, and notion,
I daresay, that could be done without. It's
the clothing maybe that stops a good many
chaps from getting' married. You'll be known'
of it, perhaps, as a clergyman, sir. If
that there chest is jest the temporary outfit

of a young castaway lady, what's a regular
rig-out going' to cost?" And forgetting that his
intention was to be lively, he suffered his
large, goggling eyes to meet in a thoughtful
squint upon the box.

Captain Weeks," said Fortescue, taking
no notice of this talk, though the motive was
too plain to render resentment possible, "the
young lady will have my cabin, of course."

And you'll have mine, sir."

Yes ; I shall have to turn you out."

"Why, certainly."

"She may need tender nursing — the
tenderest nursing," exclaimed Fortescue,
brooding over thoughts sweet and melancholy,
and speaking in a soft voice rendered
melodious by its gentleness. " Think of nine
months upon an island !" clasping his thin
white hands. " How shall we find her ?
Perhaps in good health. Who knows ? God
is a merciful Father. I have prayed to Him
by day and by night. I am here by His
commands. Believe it or not, it is so,
captain. And then the hope that springs
eternal ! There is infinite wisdom in that
saying. One sees the kindling of it in dying

eyes, as I have, eyes still fixed upon this
world. It is a light that illuminates the
shadow of death. Why should it not have
supported her ? Has not hope saved many
a life that but for it would have perished ?
No, no ! it is not spiritual hope I am thinking
of, the deathbed beacon. It is the material
hope that is in my mind, born of this world,
yearning for this world, tightening the hold
of the heart upon this world for the love that
must be left if death comes. It will have
animated her, it will be the spirit of life in
her, it will sustain her till I come guided by
God who would not — who would not — have
sent me to seek her if she were not to be
found !"

Although he was spoken to, although the
dark and burning eyes of the clergyman were
upon him, Hiram did not require to be told
that Mr. Fortescue was thinking aloud. To
the plain seaman it sounded like an address
from the pulpit, so far as the manner of it
went, but the matter was hair-stirring in its
way, spite of Weeks' now perfect familiarity
with the supernatural inspiration of the
voyage, because it showed that the parson's

conviction that the girl was on the island was
as profound on this, the eve of the discovery
of the truth one way or the other, as it was
when he made up his mind to buy the
Golden Hope and sail her to the ocean they
were in. Indeed, if ever Hiram's protruding
eyes wanted an excuse for growing moist
they might have found it then in the blunt,
salt, but hearty emotions which filled him
when he looked at the handsome, sorrowful,
pallid face of Mr. Fortescue, with its sadness
lighted up into a pathos capable of appealing
to a far rougher fellow than the skipper, by
the impassioned, prayerful, wistful expression
of his countenance, and when he considered
what would be the effect upon the young manif
Stone's Island should prove a delusion.

Well, sir," he said, with a certain uncouth
bashfulness breaking in upon the silence,
"if so be the lady's found all right upon
the island, I allow it'll be the wonderfully
sign of the h'orderin' of the Lord as any
man's likely to come across, this side o' the
time that the Scriptures comes down to.
An' I wouldn't mind betting', if betting' were
'lovable in a pious matter of this kind, that

if the lady's on the hislancl ye'll find her in
good health. If the beginning' turns outright,
it'll be all plain sailing' after ; 
be as you could wish. The job
is the beginning ; for though I can wait
as well as another, yet I'd give two pounds
in money down at this moment if Stone, or
Breeches, or any of the men 'ud sing out
that that there camel-shaped island o' your
vision was in sight over the bow. If that
beginning's all right, there'll be ne'er a kink
in the rest of it, so I believe. It'll be all
smooth and easy coiling down. 'Ain't likely
Heaven 'ud start a gentleman on a errand
of this kind to disappoint him. Must make
the island, and all the rest's warranted."

The steady trade-wind swept its warm
breath into the crowded canvas of the
schooner, and the log gave her a speed often
marine miles an hour. All Wednesday
she travelled thus, and Thursday found the
wind with even more weight in it, and
the schooner bending her shining fabric
of canvas far over to the leeward sparkling
blue. It was a day such as Fortescue had
beheld in his dream when the vision of the

Indiaman rose stately amid a scene of white
sunshine and running, flashing waters.

All day long he remained on deck. No
food crossed his lips ; indeed, he could not
eat. Both Hiram and Stone left him to
himself. They were awed by the breathless,
yearning look of the man, taking in the sea
on either bow from the bowsprit to the foregoing.
It was not wonderful, it is true, to
Hiram that he should be keeping this strict
continuous vigil or watch, because the captain
argued that if Stone's Island was real, the old
seaman might have wrongly calculated its
situation by some miles, whereby it would be
sighted sooner or later than the time he
reckoned on reaching the latitude and longitude
named. What struck Hiram, as it
struck Stone, ay, and the men forward, as
you would have noticed by observing the
glances they directed at the curate, was the
half rapt, half distressed expression of his
face — such a look, perhaps, as he wore in his
sleep when the machinery of his dream had
opened the ocean-island to his mind's sight,
and showed Agatha upon it appealing to
him. Indeed some of the men thought him

possessed, and were shy of going aft or
passing along the portion of the deck he
might be striding. He never seemed weary
of walking. Sometimes he would come to a
stand, and grasping a pin or backstay send
his gaze, full of fire, round the sea to either
quarter, and then resume his walk.

Stone was more affected, than Hiram. The
principal idea put into the skipper by Fortescue's
manner was, "If the island's a
delusion of Stone's, what in the name of all
that's holy will the parson feel and think
and dew when I has to tarn to and say, 'Well,
I can't find the island ?' " Hiram's sympathy
hadn't length enough to go any further than
that. But Stone seemed to see Fortescue in
his original character — that of the mystic, the
dreamer, slightly deranged, wrong-headed,
may be, on a point or two, and so confiding
in his own imaginations as to make him a
pathetic subject for thought. Not that old
Stone could have expressed his ideas ; but
perception has no reference to words, and the
veriest landsman may perhaps like to know
that it is possible for the humblest and most
unlettered sailor to have fancies and understandings

of things which, if robed in Miltonic
language, would discover the regality of
Miltonic thought. Hence there was mingled
with Stone's compassionate fear that the
curate's dream might prove nothing but a
delusion, a reverence for, and awe of, the sort
of transformation that had been wrought in
him by his silence, his restlessness, his
passionate vigilance, the strange expression
in his face, startling for its desirableness.
Hiram noticed the fascination with which the
old sailor would watch the clergyman, swiftly
sinking or diverting his gaze if Fortescue
looked his way, and it rendered the skipper
more and more dubious of " Bill's Island" asa
fact.

Depend upon it," he thought to himself,
"this here manner of the curate's is appealing
to Bill's capacity of acting under delusions
himself. A pretty look-out if the island's
a lie! But I don't care ! There's no conglomerate
of the sun's altitude. If my navigation
ain't accepted he must ship another
capon."

The sun sank in glory ; the burning crimson
floated to the zenith, and a bright star

in the east flashed diamond-like through
the wind that blew rose-coloured on the
schooner's starboard beam. The splendour
quickly died, the orange-tinted foam faded
into a pallid glimmering alongside, and the
fresh wind chased the rushing schooner
under a sky of velvet-black, brilliant with
orbs, with here and there a steam-like cloud
that looked like a dim and infinitely remote
constellation. The influence of Fortescue's
manner was upon the vessel, and it was to be
strangely felt, when the liquid, luminous dusk
came down, in the hush, as of expectation,
though there were figures of men moving
forward, and the glowing tips of tobacco
pipes. It was such weather as needed no
"standing by," yet instead of coiling themselves
away for a snooze in odd corners, the
watch on deck lightly trod here and there,
peering over the side at the sea-line with a
kind of anxious curiosity in their way, as
though they had borrowed from the clergyman
the feeling that the island might be
made out against the low-down stars at any
moment, and they could not rest for the
-desire to see it, and what might show upon it

even in the darkness, so full of the supernatural
was the idea of it to them.

Sometimes there would be a faint glare of
lightning in the south-west, like the dim
sheen of some gigantic, violet-tinted lamp
flashed upon the sky from behind the sea ;
again and again meteors of magnificence,
trailing clouds of splendour, swept their
sparkling dust under the stars, and Fortescue
thought of the bright exhalation that had
leapt and sailed and vanished over the mast-heads
of the Merula, as he marked her
melting into the dusk past the English Foreland.
The water was fiery with phosphorous,
and standing to leeward whenever the
schooner clove a longer sea than usual, you'd
mark the brassy glare rising to the rounded
cloths, and for the moment making the whole
configuration of the fabric ghastly with this
churchyard radiance, as it leaned under the
sweeping stars. From time to time the log
was hove, and this was the only feature of
the schooner's life that Fortescue seemed
to notice. The rattling of the reel was a
summons to him ; he would start and go to
the lee quarter, and there stand like a spectre

save but for his sleepless eyes, which shone
gleaming to the bull's-eye the man who
turned the glass held to show the running of
the sand, whilst Stone or Hiram dragged in
the length of the line through the glittering,
eddying spangles of the wake ; and whenever
the speed was named he moved forward
again, flitting from side to side just before
the mainmast, with rests between, which he'd
take with his arms crossed upon the rail,
staring out into the windy, starlit night.

Hiram went below shortly after eight
o'clock to sleep, but the general uneasiness,
curiosity, wonder — what is the mental
perturbation that was felt throughout to
be called ? — was in him as in the rest.
He woke at five bells — half-past ten — and
though his watch below was not up till
midnight, he pulled on his boots and came
on deck. He had not doubted to learn
that Mr. Fortescue had gone to his bed ;
and it startled him, almost, to see the
curate's tall dark figure standing erect at
the lee rail, one hand upon it, and his
gaze — as the risen moon showed it — bent
athwart the running, luminous surges to
vol 11. o

the horizon. Stone, pipe in mouth, paced
quietly to windward near the tiller, the
rope of which was in the grasp of William
Breeches.

"Has he been a-talkin' to ye at all since
I left the deck, Bill?" said Hiram.

Ne'er a word."

But what's his object in keeping' this
look-out ? What does he hope to see ?
Your bearings is some leagues distant yet.
He knows that."

"They was murder off this morning," said
Stone, "yet he was a-looking out then."

Perhaps he wants to be the must to
sight the island, or maybe he's on the
look-out [for a flare. Been' a landsman,
there's no tellin 'what's running' in his head,
and been' a parson, besides, who's to know
he ain't got another vision in front of him
all this time ?" said Breeches, in a gruff
whisper, like a rook's subdued croak.

I wish he'd tarn in ; damme, if it don't
make the blooming' weather feel crawly with
cold to see him a-watchin' an' watching,"
muttered Hiram. " Dew's wetting' as rain,
too, spite of this here suction of wind

He'll be catching' cold and takin' inflammation
of the brain "

"Tears to me as if he'd got that
already," said Breeches, spitting over the
taffrail.

"ain't so much a look-out he's keeping,"
said Stone, thoughtfully, " as that he's
praying' ! Not exactly praying', but sitting
as the Parishes do in church, a meditation'.
No. it ain't praying'. It's the sort
of thinking' like what a man indulges in
when he sits on the grave of his wife or child.
Th' Almighty's near, and so is the spirit of
the been' the man mourns. At least so the
man thinks, and if ye was to say 'no' to him,
we'd find it easier to speak the word than
prove it."

Fortescue crossed the deck and stood
looking at \he windward sea.

I allow," continued Stone, speaking
quietly, ''takin' this here night to be the eve
of the discovery the voyage was undertaken
to make, he's given up his mind to contemplation,
and don't mean to tarn in."

Well, it's my duty to advise him to go
below and take some rest, and I'll do it,"

exclaimed Hiram, hardly gathering all Stone's
meaning and not liking what he could understand,
since it seemed in his sight to exhibit
the old fellow as being pretty nearly as badin
his way as Mr. Fortescue was in his ; and
so saying, he stepped up to the clergyman,
but not with half the courage with which
he would have jumped overboard to save
a man

"You're making a long watch of it, sir,"
said he, softly. " You'll forgive me for saying
there won't be much to see this night, allowing'
Stone's reckonings to be near the truth."

The curate turned quickly to look at him,
with the manner of one lost in a waking
dream.

I should not be able to sleep," he
answered, "if I went below. The breeze
bears us regularly onwards, and it holds, as
you believed it would. Should it last through
the night we may hope to sight the island
tomorrow ?"

If it's there, sir. I've steered you true
to Stone's calculations. If the island's there,
and this wind holds, it should be in sight
tomorrow."

"It would be like imprisonment to go
below," exclaimed Fortescue, in a feverishly
nervous voice, and taking a stride so as to
compel Captain Weeks to walk with him.
41 Think what tomorrow may signify to me!"

"Ay, sir, and to me," said Hiram. "It'll
be a bad job if th' horizon keeps clear all
day, for I know that'll be your feeling's jest
as I know what mineral be."

"Suppose we should not sight the island
tomorrow, what will you do ?"

"Whatever you wish, sir."

No, no !" exclaimed Fortescue, with passionate
energy, " I don't mean that. You
will surely encourage me ; you will presume
that Stone may have misjudged its bearings,
you will propose a circuit, ay, even if it
should be sixty leagues in diameter, and sail
round it and across it, again and again.
Great God, man ! If that island is not in this

ocean, if it is a deception, I — I " He

reeled, and Hiram grasped his arm to steady
him. They came to a stand, and the captain
afterwards said that the clergyman's eyes
shone in the moonlight like the flashing of
that radiance off red glass. Forward, two or

three figures were restlessly moving ; the
shaking sound at the bows, resembling the
noise of a pair of skates hissing under a man
flying over polished ice, came with a sharp
distinctness from alongside, where the white
water was smoking past in undulating folds
of a steam-like tint. Stone stood motionless
on the quarter, and the main-boom swung,
strained by the pressure that was giving a
cast-iron hardness to the great surface of sail
whose foot it spread.

Mr. Fortescue," said Hiram, quietly but
firmly, "there'll be notion to see by watching'.
The wind's gathered weight since eight bells,
and th' atmosphere's thickened a bit to it.
Th' island 'ud need to be a sight bigger than
it is to blot a star out till it wur almost
aboard. Try and get some rest, sir.
Sleepily hearten ye to meet whatever tomorrow
may bring."

Fortescue pressed his hand convulsively to
his forehead.

"If I am disappointed," he exclaimed
feebly, " I shall fear my reason."

Fear that it'll go adrift ?" exclaimed
Hiram, forcing a laugh that was louder than

he intended it should be, and that ran like a
neigh through the wind. "No cause to
alarm yourself about that, sir. I allow that
Nature let go the anchor in pretty deepest
water, and that your intellect's a-ridin' to a
uncommonly long scope, but there's no fear
of martin' and no fear of dragging'. Mustn't
think of such things, sir. It's thinking' that
does it. There's nought like common objects
to keep the mind straight. Time was when
I had queer ideas which I didn't like, and
was that jarvis that I didn't dare to look
over a cliff. I got rid of them imaginations
by dwelling' on common objects. I'd out with
a stick o' baccy, say, an' fall to ruminating' on
it, and thinking' of the darkens as cut it down
and made it up, and the molasses in it, and
the likes o' that. If so be the island
shouldn't prove to be where Stone says it is,
if so be, Mr. Fortescue, as we can't find it,
sir, after a long sail round, as you say, and
after watching' about for it, why then you must
tarn to and reckon your dream was right only
so far as it proved true and no murder, and
that you'll hear of the lady as been' saved and
waiting' for ye in England when we returns."

It was well-intentioned talk, but too much
for Fortescue. There was only one way
of getting rid of Hiram, who to the clergyman's
nervous mind seemed to suggest that
he did not like the idea of leaving him to
wander alone on deck, hanging over the side
and sending passionate looks towards the
starry dimness on either bow.

Well, you may be right, Captain Weeks,"
he said, wearily, so exhausted with his long
watching, his fasting, his emotions, that he
could have prayed for the relief of tears ; "I
will go below. I find the wind cold, of a
sudden, and," he added, pressing the sleeve
of his coat, "the dew is as wetting as a
shower of rain. Good-night."

JUNE THE SECOND.

The cold, grey dawn, lifting its ashen hue
over the sea-line and slipping in dull metallic
faintness from one black ridge to another,
found William Stone again on the deck of
the Golden Hope, in charge of the watch.
Low down in the east, where the shadow
of the receding night lay black, the stars
were shining gloriously, and the moon hung
under them like a dim, red, Chinese lantern.
As the eastern light came flowing over a sky
silvering westwards into indigo and dusk,
the features of the schooner stole out one by
one ; the topsails and the stun sails paling
in their hollows, then the great mainsail
catching the gathering brilliance to its foot,
the breastwork tremulous with the sheen-like
fire, wan and half hidden and crawling ere
bursting into flame, the decks growing out of

the shadows, white as the trunk of a tree
newly stripped of its bark, till, with his swift
intertropical leap, the sun showed his topmost
arch of silver. The wet and splendid
beam, fresh and flashing from the surge,
smote the bosom of the night, cowering in
the west ; she vanished in a glare of blue,
and with her all her jewels, saving the moon,
that turned into a filmy pearl like to one of
the scattered clouds, but fainter, which were
blown along by the steady wind

Martin Goldsmith was at the tiller. Stone
went and stood at his side, but did not speak
until the lower limb of the sun was above the
water and the effulgence of his full orb upon
sea and sky.

,% Martin," said he, in a low, tremulous
voice, " look carefully round ye, mate, will
you, and tell me if there's anything to be
seen ? My sight's a-getting' old."

The schooner was heading to the north
and east, heeled over by the wind, and the
splendour of the morning was on the starboard
bow. There, the ocean was a trembling
glory of silver of a blinding lustre, and the
breaking of every near sea that way, as it

rolled its arch of snow at the Golden Hope,
was as though from its ridge there sparkled
out innumerable flying-fish, catching and
flashing back the sunshine as they flew.
There was a gravity in Stone's manner and
speech that awoke the slow and deliberate
instincts of the seaman in Goldsmith. Keeping
hold of the tiller-rope with one hand, and
lifting the sharp of his other brown and hairy
paw to his forehead, he turned to look at the
horizon to leeward, steadfastly pursuing the
line to the magnificent shining to windward,
then skipping that with a sharp blinking, and
proceeding till his hard, keen, sailorly stare
was over the weather quarter. Stone watched
him with extraordinary intentness. Goldsmith
looked at the old fellow, and pointing
into the sun's wake, said : —

"What may be there, Mr. Stone, I dunno,
the brightness makes me cry ; but where
th' horizon's visible there's nothing."

Stone hollowed his hands and stared round
the sea through them. Goldsmith looked
again.

Nothing," he said. " But it isn't time
yet, is it ?"

11 No, not according' to the reckonings I
have given, and the capon's calculations,"
answered Stone, and as he turned his face
sunwards you saw an expression as of hollowness
upon it, not haggardness, but that
shadowing under the eyes and the cheekbones
which the grey complexion of anxiety
will define till you sometimes witness an
absolute gauntness in it. "We should be
making' of it this afternoon, Martin, as ye
know ; but a man don't need to be fur out in
his recollection, nor a navigator neither, with
a chronometer, to bring land in sight a few
hours afore it was expected. It was Mr.
Fortescue as wanted to be the first to see the
island, but / should be first by rights — by as
many rights as there be wrongs concerning
me — by as many rights as there's been
suspicions aboard here, from where ye're a
standing' to the eyes yonder."

He spoke with subdued bitterness and a
slight vehemence, and there was a bit of
colour on both his cheeks, as his eyes, under
his knitted brows, shot a searching glance
past Goldsmith to the horizon.

Well," said Goldsmith, drawing the back

of his hand across his lips, " it won't be long
now, afore we finds out whether martin notions
you've mentioned be right or be wrong.
Only I'm for this, an' I'll stand to it, Mr.
Stone ; island or no island, the voyage was
undertook because the parson dreamt a
dream, and the whole bilin' being as visionary,
to use the tarn that's got forrard, as a
puff o' tobacco smoke that's gone afore ye
can sing out its come, I say that them menas
may have got it into their heads that
there's modern one delusion knocking' about
aboard the Golden Hope aren't to be blamed;
and I says this, island or no island'"

Stone made no answer. He stood for
some minutes with his gaze fixed to windward,
as near to where the southern line of the sun's
dazzling wake would permit him to come to
the luminary's reflection, hoarsely, though
softly, rumbling through his teeth the plaintive
air of that famous windlass chorus, "Across
the Western Ocean." Suddenly he went
below, and reappeared with the schooner's
glass, in its case, slung over his shoulders.

I'm going to have a look round to satisfy
myself," said he. "If the capt'n comes on

deck, point to the topgallant-yard, Martin."
He peered at the compass. " Straight as
she goes, mate. Not the sixteenth of a print
off or to windward. Mind that! Don't need
much steering to make misgiving's varieties
at sea. Straight as she goes ! For the capt'n
shall have his way first, if it be my tarn
afterwards."

Goldsmith grinned gloomily, as if he suspected
in this a doubt of his capacity as a
helmsman, which was altogether too absurd
to be resented, even though it was objectionable.


If the island's to be reached," said he,
by me simply a-followin' of the course
given, it'll come up solid, right enough."

Stone went forward, clambered on to the
rail, and crawled up the foregoing. The
watch, who were scrubbing the decks, rested
a moment on their brush-handles to cock
their eyes at him. In a few moments the
old man was on the topgallant-yard with
one arm round the mast and the telescope
levelled. The schooner raced beneath him ;
the foam arched out from either bow, curving
into glittering, faintly rose-tinted masses of

throbbing snow to windward, where it was
struck by the seas, and spinning smooth as
cream past the leeward rail ; the wind, warm,
sweet and fresh, hummed melodies through
the rigging under him, and swept like an
echo of summer thunder past his ears ; the
deep looked measureless as the heavens, and
the sun appeared an hour higher than from
the deck. The hair of the old seaman trembled
to the wind, and the shadow of him,
from the waist down, lay clear as a drawing
in ink in the silk-white hollow of the little
topgallant-sail. Slowly he passed the lenses
along the sea-line ; but when he had brought
the tubes straight over the jibboom, he hung,
looking motionless, were it not for the 
of the hands which grasped
the glass, with the rhythmic reeling of the
schooner's masthead. For full five minutes
he stayed aloft watching ; he then replaced
the telescope in its case, and descended the
rigging with a face of wood.

"Anything in sight, sir?" called out old
Breeches, who was swishing bucketsful of
water along the deck, whilst Sawyer and
Hall scrubbed.

"Do jw/ see anything, Bill?" answered
Stone.

I haunt been lookin," said Breeches.

"Then sing out when you do see it,"
exclaimed Stone, with a sour severity that
affected the men as something new in him,
and he passed aft whilst old Breeches
grumbled, " If I haven't to sing out till
then, my voice, I lay, won't be voted a
inconvenience."

The morning grew in glorious fairness
as the sun mounted. It was the Indian
Ocean in June, and the schooner half a
thousand miles south of the Equator. The
white clouds, soaring out of the south-east,
gave relief to the monotonous shining of
the light-blue heavens away from the limits
of the circle of the sun's effulgence upon it ;
they were like scattered sheep upon a
prodigious green acclivity. The Golden
Hope was sailing a fair eight knots, the
swell that followed her brimmed to her lee
rail sweet as milk with the foam, and she
went along with floating lifts and falls,
soothing as the tender rocking of a mother's
breast.

Up and down, up and down stumped
William Stone, from abreast of the tiller to
abreast of the main rigging and back again,
occasionally pausing to cast what Martin
Goldsmith at the helm considered a careless
glance towards the windward brightness, but
following it on by a lean over the side to
right ahead ; and this went on till the watch
below turned out to get their breakfast and
Hiram came on deck. It was twenty
minutes before eight bells. The captain
arrived, long, lank and yellow, stepping out
of the hatch with a stride that was like the
heave forwards of an ostrich's leg. He gave
Stone a nod and went to the compass, then
cast his eyes aloft to observe the canvas the
schooner was under and the set of it, and
then, by this time having got his vision in
good focus, he sent a long look ahead and
around.

"There's notion in sight, I suppose," said
Stone.

Notion. But it isn't to be expected yet,
William. Has this pace been steady ?"

Stone nodded.

Hiram threw a glance over the side,
vol. 11. P

and after calculating, said, " I reckon on
about forty mile bringing us to your
island."

Forty mile ?" said Stone, reflectively.
Well, I may be out. Ye know how I
got the bearing's. They wasn't took from
observations."

How much out, d'ye imagine ?" said
Hiram, grimly, looking at Stone intently.

Who's to know till we comes to the
bearings I've given you?" answered Stone, as
wooden in manner as in face, and in a voice
dry as sawdust.

"Ha!" exclaimed Hiram, and he turned
his back upon the old man to scrutinise the
sea astern.

"There'll be no more islands knocking'
about these parts to the southwards and
westwards of the Chagos, I suppose ?" said
Stone.

"How far to the southwards and westwards ?"
answered Hiram, gruffly.

"Why, insides of where we are now, anyways
?"

No," said Hiram.

Stone took a short turn forward, and

after a brief stare ahead returned to the
captain.

Did Mr. Fortescue come on deck whilst
I was below?" asked Hiram, looking at Stone
with a sort of sulkiness, that came very near
to resembling temper, in the expression of
his eyes.

"Yes; he came up at two bells. It took
me half-an-hour to persuade him to go to his
cabin again. He talked in that time more
about his girl than I've heard him say sin' he
fell to explaining' about the voyage. A mano'
my age will have read and learnt about a
deal of human feeling's and affections, but I
never could have believed that any man's
love was like what the parson's is for his
sweetheart. It'll be a bad job if he's deluded
it'll be a bad job !"

Yes," said Hiram, gloomily ; " a bad job
for him an' a bad job for me !"

Stone eyed him for some moments intently;
then a slow, barely-expressed smile softened
the wooden look. He dragged a large lump
of a silver watch out from some pocket inside
the band of his breeches and read the time
whilst it lay in the hollow, horny palm of his

hand ; after which he went to the skylight
and called to Johnny, who was preparing the
breakfast table.

"Jest knock on Mr. Fortescue's door, d'ye
hear, and ask him to step on deck."

What for ?" asked Hiram.

The question was startlingly answered by a
hurricane shout of : —

"LAND HO!"
delivered by Breeches, standing on the 
; and the excited roar of the
powerful salt's lungs swept aft like the explosion
of a musket.

D the fellow !" shouted Stone, fetching
his thigh a resounding slap, " it wur the
parson's turn next — but I saw it must !"

Hiram looked on a moment with his mouth
a-gape, discrediting his hearing ; he then
sprung to the main rigging, but the lower
staysail was in the road, and he danced
forward yelling, "Where away? Where away?"

At the cry raised by Breeches, the crew had
come up out of the forecastle as hard as they
could tumble, and there they all stood, a lump
of men, in the bows, with Hiram towering on
his long legs among them, staring as one man

at a faint tiny blotch of bluish shadow that
yet " dipped," as they say at sea — that is, rose
and vanished with the motion of the vessel —
upon the sea-line ahead.

D'ye see it, sir?" cried Breeches, eagerly
stretching forth his short, muscular arm, with
fingers at the end of it like a bunch of warped
carrots.

"Ay, by the Lord!" said Hiram, breathing
deep with excitement. " It's land, sure
enough."

"Will it be Stone's Island, capt'n ?" asked
the cook, who had run out of the galley on
hearing Breeches call.

Why, yes, it's land, and it'll want but
two humps to make it Stone's Island,"
responded Hiram, staring ahead.

But ain't it hove into view too soon ?"
cried James Kitt.

14 Give Mr. Stone a chance, mate !" exclaimed
Breeches, sourly. "Let's wait for the
signs. That's no delusion yonder, anyhow ;
and if so be it's his island, why, then, either
the schooners have overrun the capt's
calculations or it's Mr. Stone who's out by a
few miles. But give him a chance, I say.

We shall ha' been blooming' unfair to th'
old man if that there shudder turns out to
be the humpined concern we've been all
these months sailing' to reach."

Ay, an' it's right under the jibboom,
too — steered for straight as a hair all the
way from Gravesend, cuss me !" exclaimed
Duck, who, being moved by Breeches'
remarks, was in a fit condition to suddenly
appreciate the direct and skilful navigation
of the captain.

Hay one navigation', I calls it," said Joe
Hall.

Hiram walked aft that the chew should
not see the grin these tickling compliments
forced him into. At the same moment Fortescue
came on deck. He had a bewildered
look, as if his heart hoped and his intellect
foreboded ; the blankness expressed the
neutralisation of one emotion by another
directly opposed. He was deadly pale, the
more remarkably so because of the indescribable
tint imparted to his bloodless cheeks by
the thin, delicate bronzing of the sun and
weather. His dark, fine eyes burnt fiery in
their cavities, and, indeed, as he stepped on

deck, his aspect was one of wildness, though
it was bewilderment and the lifetime of emotion
he had been passing through for the last
twenty-four hours that gave it to him. He
drew close up to Stone without looking at
the sea, and said, in a gasping way. " What
is it ?"

11 Land, sir," responded the old sailor, once
more stolid as a Dutchman and hard as a
figure-head ; and he pointed to the sea over
the bows.

The curate looked that way. with his
mouth slowly opening till his underjaw
seemed fallen like a corpse's ; it was plain he
saw nothing, yet he continued looking.

"Is it the island we are seeking?" he inquired,
without turning his head, and in the
manner of one who apostrophises a spirit.

"I take it upon myself to say 'yes,'
sir"' said Hiram, adjusting the tubes of the
telescope he had picked up. 'there can
be no other land than Stone's Island hereabouts."


"Hold, sir!" cried Stone, raising both
hands and recoiling by the length of a stride.
Not a word, Mr. Fortescue, till you're sure ;

till Hiram and all hands is sure. Then my
part in this here woyage'll have been played.
I shall have done my duty. That's almost
all a plain sailor-man can do."

The curate had turned as if to grasp his
hands ; but finding himself checked, rather
than repulsed, he went to the companion and
leaned against it, with his arms tightly folded
upon his breast, and his eyes glued upon the
sea that, with every floating lift of the bows
of the Golden Hope, rose blue and sparkling
into the whitish azure of the ardent sky under
the curve of the schooner's pulling squaresail.
If ever there was deep excitement aboard a
ship, the company of men standing on the
deck of the Golden Hope felt it then. Was
that denned and dark blue spot upon the
horizon, athwart which ran the gleaming,
throbbing waters blown by the wind, the
island of the clergyman's dream ? All work
was dropped — breakfast forgotten — nothing
seemed possible, from the captain to the boy,
but to wait till the shadow was near enough
to enable the glass to reveal its proportions.
All that was superstitious, mystical, preternatural
in the voyage worked in this hour —

this flashing, final hour of the long passage —
like a spirit, as you would have known by
observing the briny, reddened faces staring
ahead over the forecastle-rail, with low
muttering among them of fancies to which
positive alarm denied a clear tongue. The
helm had been relieved ; Kitt was at the
tiller, and steadily he held the vessel to her
course, with the trumpet of the triumphant
figure-head pointing straight at the heavens
above the island. From time to time Hiram
would drop the telescope from his eye and
take a restless stride or two : Stone stood to
leeward of the binnacle, often keeping his
gaze fixed upon the deck, occasionally stooping
his head to look forward : and Fortescue.
leaning with folded arms against the weather
rail, waited, with his face strange with its
greyness and the expression in his eyes —
which he would shift from the horizon ahead
to Hiram.

The men in the bows were beginning to
glance aft, when the captain, who had been
working away with the glass, suddenly
dropped it, turned eagerly to Fortescue,
then, with the start of a changed intention,

went up to Stone and said in a low, vibratory
voice, tk I see the humps, Bill — two of them.
Look for yourself."

The old seaman seized the telescope and
levelled it ; in a few moments he called out,
Mr. Fortescue, it's the island, sir!"

It's the island, men !" roared Hiram.

11 Hooray !" bawled Breeches, and at the
signal the others gave vent to their pent-up
feelings in a cheer that drove away
with the wind in a storm of noise.

Bill, some brandy — quick!" cried Hiram,
and in a spring he had caught the swaying
form of Mr. Fortescue. There were
glistening drops of sweat upon the clergyman's
brow, his lips were ashen, and there
was a swooning, upward rolling of his eyes ;
but when Hiram clasped him, the sailor felt
the power of the man's will in the desperate
shudder of resolution that shook but also-rallied
him ; he stood erect with his hand
pressed to his heart. Stone arrived with
some brandy ; Mr. Fortescue made a gesture,
incapable of speech.

'drink it, sir!" cried Stone, with a stubborn,
half fierce manner. "Swallow it, in

the name of God ! This is only the beginning.
Think what's to come !"

"Drink it, sir!" said Hiram.

The clergyman put the glass to his lips,
and never was the tonic of such a draught
more needed. It gave him life and, as he
thought, speech ; but when with both hands
he had grasped the rough muscular hand
of Stone, his voice failed him with the first
word he tried to speak ; he looked at the
face of the old sailor and wept.

Let him cry, Hiram," muttered Stone,
anticipating the captain's sympathetic intentions.
"There's no relief like tears. I
know it. 'Tis a good sign — it shows his
manhood's sound."

Bill," said Hiram, "your hand, mate. I
have doubted ye — not as an honest man— no,
God forbid ! But — but — shipmate, I ask
your pardon."

They clasped hands in silence.

THE TRUTH.

The island stood plain, in the powerful lens
of the glass. The tremble of the surf at the
base was visible, a thin, white, throbbing vein
that gave the island the appearance of a
mirage by the surfs suggestion of clear space
betwixt the shore and the sea. It was still
blue in the blue atmosphere, with a fibrine
fringing of trees in places ; and the two hills
and the graceful arching-over into the water
of the north-western point of land, with the
eastern curve, made its resemblance to a
camel standing to its belly in the water with
its head under, as startling in its queer
accuracy, as a face in the fire or some wild
likeness in a cloud. The moment Fortescue
had it full, a swimming and a faintness chilled
his brain ; he shut his eyes, but, with less
effort than before, rallied and levelled the

telescope afresh. As the lineaments of the
land came out tremulous upon the azure an
overwhelming emotion of awe and dread and
wonder possessed him. There was the island
of his vision !

When the schooner was within two and a
half miles of the island they took a cast of the
lead, but no bottom was found. Soon afterwards
the larger of the boats was got over
and towed astern, and the stun sails were
taken in. A gaze, as searching and intent as
ever shipwrecked mariners levelled from rock
or rigging at the sea, was fixed by the crew of
the Golden Hope upon the island, but not to
their naked eyes, nor yet to the glasses which
Hiram and Stone directed at the land, was
there visible the least sign of anyone being
alive there. Xo smoke rose to the wind, no
rag nor signal fluttered. In the glorious
morning sunshine, veering northerly, each
small eminence threw its black-blue shadow
south-west ; off the surfaces of cocoa-nut trees
rose a silvery, greenish gleam that had the
fluctuating iridescence of oil on water, as the
breeze trembled in the foliage, and the setting
of the little island in the pure azure of the

deep, vivid and beautiful as it was with rich
tropical tints of vegetation, of bush, of long
grass, of sward-like slopes, of the shadows of
acclivities, of the checkered brightness of
coral sand, was accentuated in a manner that,
from the distance of the schooner, gave the
picture a gem-like emerald loveliness, by the
heaping of the white surf along the windward
length of it, a boiling of breakers that had the
dazzle of a mass of drifted snow.

After Fortescue had satisfied himself that
there was nothing to be seen on shore indicative
of the presence of living beings, he
stood watching and waiting without speech ;
but nobody could have glanced at him without
witnessing the formidable conflict of
emotions that was being waged within him.
Formidable it was, and the more so yet,
because even his own intelligence, thinking
amid that central calm, which like the vortex
of the cyclone is to be found at the heart of
the wildest human agitation, might fearfully
fancy that whether the victory should be his
fear's or his hope's, such was the intensity of
h(S mental tumult, his brain at the issue
would stand in dire peril. And indeed it

would have been enough to derange the
stoutest mind to behold the island that had
been visionary as a dream at Wyloe — steadfast,
green and shining upon the sea, under
the schooner's jibboom ; the same in outline,
tint, vegetation ! — the same in the swarming
of the giddy froth along its margin ! — the
same in its fringing and clustering of trees
and bush ! — the same in all minute details,
converging to the inexpressibly real and yet
phantasmal aspect it bore, when it dimly but
discernibly formed a background for the
impassioned, despairs, pleading figure of
Agatha, stretching out her arms to him from
the shelving beach beyond the surf, across
the fiery leagues of Indian water!

Was she there ? Was it possible, after
nine months, that she should be living,
and there, amidst this tremendous solitude
of ocean that gathered a terrible emphasis
from the very beauty of the lonely islet ?
At which thought, regularly recurring, a
shudder would pass through him that
wrenched him as a convulsion, and again
and again both Stone and Hiram marked
him smear with his handkerchief the sweat

off his forehead, ignorant that he did so r
and conscious of nothing but the rending
thought : Should he find his Love ?

The schooner swept onwards ; the island
was now within a mile and a half; another
cast of the lead was had, and by the time
the line was coiled down, the roar of the
surf was a distinct hollow moaning in the
wind.

Hiram took a fresh look at the land
through the glass, and shook his head at
Stone ; then sent his orders along the deck,
in a voice tremulous with excitement.

"Hands by the weather topsail-brace !
Down square sail ! Haul the tack of the
mainsail up ! Down helm !" And amid a
hurrying of figures and a song or two, the
Golden Hope was brought to the wind
and lay hove-to, rolling lightly upon the
swell, a mile from the island.

"Mr. Fortescue, will you come along
with me, sir, or would you rather remain
here ?" said Stone, softly.

The curate started, as from a trance, and
stared at the old sailor before replying. It
was then that his resolution, which any man

might have sworn he was wanting in at that
moment, came to him in a flash and possessed
him as though some marvellous draught had
transformed nerve into steel and mind into
iron will.

"Why, with you, Mr. Stone! How else?
Are you ready ?

"All ready, sir; but I'd humbly represent
that if she — if the lady — or, putting it in this
way, suppose " The old fellow was stammering;
but Fortescue glanced at him with a
slight frown of surprise, and walked to the
gangway.

"Jump into the boat, two of you, my lads.
Mr. Stone, you'll take an oar," sung out
Hiram.

There seemed a sort of hanging back
among the men. In truth, at any other
moment, there would have been something
to laugh at in the fellows who had collected
near the caboose, elbowing: one another and
yet shoving close together and staring one
past another ; Duck, with a kind of grin that
signified anything but mirth ; Anson, the
cook, sulky and yellow ; Johnny Simpson
hiding in the rear ; Goldsmith, with obstinate
vol. 11. Q

leathern jaws slowly gnawing upon a junk of
tobacco; and so on.

Now then, into the boat, two of ye,
d'ye hear?" bawled Hiram afresh. On which
Breeches, with a sour face, and muttering in
his growling, croaking voice, " Well, here
goes for one. A dog must have two tails
afore he feels too proud to obey orders,"
walked to the gangway and was followed by
young Joe Hall. In a few moments the boat
was pulling away towards the island, Fortescue
in the stern-sheets and old Stone working
away as stroke, looking over his shoulder to
get the boat's head fair for the point it was
necessary to round.

The men pulled steadily ; Stone very
grave, with occasional side squints at Fortescue
and prolonged looks over his shoulder
at the island ; Breeches, in the bows, with
the natural sourness of his expression emphasised
by the drawn-down corners of his
mouth, the curves whereof, at least on the
right cheek, were made longer by the dark
stains of tobacco juice ; and young Joe Hall
between, giving his supple trunk a devil-may-care
swing as though he reckoned himself

specially watched from the schooner and
commented upon. Silence was maintained
for some time. At last old Stone, bringing
his eyes away from the land and staring
under twisted eyebrows past Fortescue at
the sea, muttered with a deep sigh or two : —

Height ! height ! here it was, William,
that I was that dry for drink I would have
swapped the mother that bore me for a
quarter of a pint o' water. By the way,
Mr. Fortescue, did you bring e'er a drop
o' brandy along with you ? M

"Yes, I have a flask in my pocket,"
answered the clergyman.

Well, I meant to have reminded ye of it,
sir. It may be wanted — there's no knowing."
He turned to inspect the island. " Make out
any signs of life, there, Bill ? See anything
moving ?"

44 No," responded Breeches, hoarsely; "an'
unless it's them as Mr. Fortescue seeks, we
don't want to see notion."

11 How long'll it be, Mr. Stone, since them
we've come to fetch has bin castaway ?" asked
Hall.

Nine months, Joe, nine months," responded

Stone, with something of deprecation
in his manner, evidently considering the
question mal apropos, and speaking with
singular solemnity. Then, addressing Mr.
Fortescue, "If there's any persons ashore
there, sir, they'll have to be behind them
humps. It's smooth water t'other side, and
it's reasonable they should settle to leeward
for the convenience of going' a-fishing, not to
mention living clear of the shindy of that
there surf. Greasy, Bill. Let's get her head
out more. Why, this is a time of expectation,
an' no mistake ! Dunno, after all, if it
wouldn't have been a good idea to have fired
a rocket or so, not having a gun aboard, that
the explosion aloft might bring anybody
what's ashore down to the beach to have a
look." He combed the sweat from his face
with one hand, rowing with the other, as he
added, with a fresh glance at the island, " It's
enough to make the heart bust clear of its
mooring's with anxiety, to see them two bits
o' hills stuck up there blotting' out the view
one wants to get ;" and then observing that
the clergyman was absolutely incapable of
conversation, the old fellow sank into silence

with a dim, far-away expression in his eyes
that would easily have caused you to guess
he was thinking of his own shipwreck in
these waters.

The white surf boiled up the beach and
rushed back in thunder. Seeing the vast,
resplendent breaking of the fine-weather
breakers upon that coral shore, you might
well have supposed that in storm the seas
must sweep in snow over the island. Giddy
prismatic springs of throbbing water rose
fountain-like against the northern point where
the arch of the land, by its peculiar configuration,
completed that camel aspect that has
been again and again referred to. Every hue
of growth and verdure was of singular
tropical luxuriance, gaining in depth and
purity of dye with the approaching gaze,
whilst the sheen of the sunlight over all hung
like a silver mist that gave the sky an
appearance of quicksilver for many fathoms
above the fringing of the trees and the tops
of the little hills. Now, past the surf a few
sea-fowl could be seen waddling upon a
gleaming slope ; less than a score were on
the wing, sailing, like the common gull, with

arched necks and on trembles pinions. The
sound of the breakers was like a ceaseless
cannonading ; the softened commingling of
the detonations of small ordnance.

The creek's round that corner — it's
smooth there. Pull, lads !" cried Stone,
with sudden excitement.

The point, to which they had to give a
whitish berth, since the surf came down toit
thin, but always dangerous, opened rapidly
to the stroke of the oars, and revealed the
leeward part of the island descending verdant
and tender from the hillside to a broad strip
of green level, whence went the sea, blue
and quiet. The creek lay clear, stretching
a hundred fathoms of radiant water into
the land. The boat, heading for it, came
broadside to the swell.

At this instant Fortescue leapt to his
feet with a sort of scream. " Look !" he
shrieked, pointing over the bow, and he
uttered a loud hysterical laugh.

"Sit down! For God's sake sit down,
sir!" roared Stone, "or ye'll capsize the
boat !"

By thunder, it's a man !" cried Breeches

Stone grasped the clergyman and forced
him to sit, and whilst he still held him, looked
towards the land, where, to the right of the
creek, midway between its sea opening and
its land limit, stood a tall human figure, with
his hands hanging motionless to his side. hi
dark face turned towards the boat, and the
whole aspect of him so rigid that he might
have passed for the wooden effigy of a shipwrecked
sailor, fixed by some ironical hand
upon that lonely rock to counterfeit the
human agony of the living castaway.

Fortescue sat in the stern-sheets, his hands
gripping the gunwale so fiercely you saw the
veins standing up like whipcord under the
delicate skin, his face flushed to the brow,
his lips parted, his respiration short i and
oppressed, and with such a light in his
eyes that anyone might have sworn they
had caught the febrile fire from madness.
The long sweep of the oars had brought the
boat near enough to the mouth of the creek
to enable him to distinguish the man's
features, and it was another shock, too full
of the supernatural in its first impulse for
joy, for him to witness in the lonely figure

the very likeness of the man he had beheld
in his vision battling through the surf and
bearing Agatha ashore.

"It is the boatswain of the Merula," he
cried, so huskily as to be barely articulate.
At the same moment the boat entered the
smooth water of the creek, and was presently
laid alongside the white sand on the right,
that went up into grass and bush.

Motionlessly, with hanging arms and
burnt, hollow face, the man had been watching
them ; he now raised a strange cry of
transport which found a derisive echo in
the hoarse notes of the birds overhead, and
made as if he would run towards the boat;
but God best knows the emotions that
would paralyse him at such a time ; he
took a stride or two and fell headlong,
and there lay, whilst Fortescue, Stone and
Breeches jumped out of the boat, leaving
Hall in charge.

Has the sight of us killed him ?" said
Stone, in a trembling whisper, whilst
Breeches cast a hurried, nervous glance
around.

But ere they reached him he had

struggled to his legs and stood erect
before them. Father of Mercy ! What a
figure ! piteously trembling from head to
foot, his lips moving but without utterance,
tears coursing down his cheeks. A
ragged seaman's jacket covered his naked
breast, and he wore a pair of canvas
trousers in shreds about the legs. This
was his attire. His black hair was as long
as a woman's, and lay upon his back and
shoulders in a matted mass. His face
was nearly of the complexion of chocolate
with sunburn, and his wild, shipwrecked,
most lamentable appearance was completed
by a long black beard and moustaches. And
yet the tall figure, the fine physique, the
manly looks of one who had been, and
might yet again be, a noble specimen of
an English sailor, were visible through the
tremors, the tears, the rags, the haggardness
of this castaway.

Fortescue ran to him and grasped his hand.
"You were the boatswain of the Merula !"
he cried. " We have come to save you !"

The man sank upon his knees, kissing the
clergyman's hand. The spur of the southernmost

hill came down to the sea, a quarter of a
mile beyond; it was all green growth to therewith
some cocoa-nut trees on the head that
hid the land behind. Fortescue looked that
way, then at the kneeling, weeping, trembling
man, and tried to speak, but his voice failed
him. On which Stone said, " Give me the
brandy, sir," and pouring out a dram presented
it to the man ; he drank it, and Stone
said, " For God's sake, collect your energies.
'Tis a surprise to kill a man pretty nigh, as
can't I reckon, having' been myself cast away
here, though not for nine months as ye have.
But it's all right now; get on your legs, mate,
and tell us if there's more of ye. Tell us," he
said, putting his lips to the kneeling man's
ear, " if there be more of ye."

The suspense of a lifetime may be crowded
into a minute: think, then, of the agony of it!
The man tried to speak, struggled, and was
helped on to his feet by Stone, who held him ;
and he pressed his hands to his temples as if
his head would burst whilst the rapt, eager
gaze fixed upon him by the two seamen was
in its way almost as passionately anxious as
the eyes which Fortescue regarded him with.

"Merciful Christ'' suddenly exclaimed the
man, in a hollow voice, "to think you
should have come! It is nine months, you

VI

say r

For the love of God, shipmate, tell us —
are you alone ? cried Stone, and Breeches
echoed, " Ay. for God's sake, tell us !"

"No!" answered the man, frowning and
grinning with the violence of his efforts to
steady his mind, and still trembling and
weeping; "there is a lady — beyond there.
Come!" he yelled. " Let's get her — then be
off! — then be off! There's only us two! I'll
earn" her myself! I bore her through the
boiling outside to windward. I saved her
from a bloody villain ! Her life shall be
own' to me yet. Hooray P

Again he made as if to run, and again fell :
but this time in a dead swoon, and there he
lay, for all they could tell, a corpse.

14 Bill, keep by him in case he comes to,"
exclaimed Stone. " Mr. Fortescue, let's find
the lady, sir. No good wasting' a minute of
time more n can be helped"'

The grass and bush grew plentifully, the
former of an Indian kind, so tall, harsh,



and intertwined as to be stubborn to the
thrusting of the leg. It was oppressively-hot,
the glare of the sun coming down past
the hill brassy in a blaze of light, on the verge
of whose atmospheric circle the few clouds
blowing that way melted. The sea went
away from the incline of the hill in a surface
of exquisite blue; but the silence in the island
was full of the thunder of the eternal surge of
the Indian Ocean breaking upon the windward
shore. Wherever the coral sand stood
bare to the eye, a dazzle came off it almost as
of polished tin. The arrival of the boat, or
the movements of the men, seemed to have
quickened or alarmed the birds into activity,
for now many sea-fowl — a sort of gannet
chiefly, black and grey, wheeled impetuously
overhead, flying out to sea in sudden darting,
then returning and raising sounds that were
like a continual sawing by a number of
carpenters, every man working with a tool
that yielded a different note. Yet through
these cries and the sounds of the surf could
you hear the delicate moaning or sighing
noise of the pleasant trade-wind blowing
through the bushes, and bending the long

grass, and making whatever foliage the trees
hung out to it tremble their greenish sheen
against the azure heavens, till it was like an
overflowing of silvery brightness from the
leaves, very beautiful to behold.

11 To think that I should find myself here
again !" exclaimed Stone, rather thinking
aloud than addressing Fortescue. " Lord !
what a lot a man goes through in this here
world !"

They reached the summit of the spur and
stood a moment looking. From the base of
the short incline, the ground, thick with
undergrowth, bush and grass, went level to a
similar slope of land that formed the spur or
fall of the other hill. In the middle of this
flat, within ready observation, there stood a
little structure easily seen to be formed of the
trunks and boughs of bushes which had been
stripped of all growths deemed superfluous,
with an arched-shaped roof of boughs and the
like interlaced, and the whole fairly covered
with grass, plaited, and yellow with heat and
decay. That was all. It was just a little
arbour. Something like it you will see in
gardens where great bushes have been

hollowed into an aperture you have to stoop
to enter.

She's nowhere about — that'll be her
shelter, sir ; you'll find her there," said
Stone.

In silence they approached the structure.
Fortescue hardly breathed ; his lips were
bloodless ; he trembled almost as the man
that fainted had ; when within a stone's
throw of the house he stopped. It was evident
the entrance faced the sea or was on
the other side. This side it was a blank wall
of greenery cunningly wreathed, and moving
as an exhibition of patience in suffering and
in hopelessness. The curate grasped the old
sailor by the arm.

Mr. Stone," he whispered with his
parched throat, "if I should suddenly show
myself the joy might craze her, you know.
How shall we act ?"

11 Why, that thought's been in me all
through," answered Stone. " Suppose you
stand behind one of these here bushes —
I'll peep in ; if she's there I'll speak to
her and prepare her. Been' gruff an'
nautical I can't upset her — outside the

mere notion of been' saved — as a person
better bred than me might. »

Fortescue motioned to him to act as he
suggested. Stone walked to the structure
and found the entrance of it facing the sea.
It was a cone-shaped slit rather than a
doorway, and he had to stoop to peer in.
The interior was a green twilight, with
the sun in the north sending golden threads
of light through the leafy roof and side,
and wherever these radiant threads touched
the ground they seemed to spread and
tremble into little pools of liquid gold. A
quantity of long grass lay thick upon the
floor ; it had been cut down by a knife and
had turned to the hue of hay, and it was
as coarse as straw.

In the right hand corner of the strange,
arbour-like structure, on the right hand as
you looked in at the door, there was a heap
of this grass, and upon it lay Agatha Fox ;
in attire a scarecrow, with arms naked and
white breasts half concealed, unstockinged
feet, yet with remains of female apparel
swathing her, that is to say one thing
hiding the rent in another. Think for

yourself if you need a clearer picture. She
had been nine months cast away ; and what
she wore when she was dragged ashore was
all she had !

Stone stood a moment or two watching
her. Her hair, that was of a rich and lustrous
auburn and wonderfully abundant, hung, withall
the wildness of dishevelment from her
head, and lay in a mass upon the floor, albeit
she had her cheek in her hand, propped on
the elbow. The old sailor looking, with his
heart in his throat, might have expected to
find little more than a skeleton in a woman,
delicately nurtured, that had been immured
for nine months, tormented by thoughts inexpressible,
by suffering which could find no
meaning in words ; yet in the swift glances he
stole he noticed, on the contrary, a roundness
and fulness as of positive health indeed in her
face, likewise a healthful fleshiness of limb :
the delicate feet and hands and arms were
scarlet with sunburn ; but the face was pale
and spirit-like, with a curious repose or immobility
of beauty, heightened, one might
suppose, into an aspect rarely seen beneath
the stars, by the disordered unheeded, glory of

her hair, and by the rags upon her expressing
and half-exposing the perfection of female
form through the squalor that the ocean
brings about ; not to be likened to what we
know of the same thing ashore. She leaned
her head upon her right arm, and with her
left hand she looked to be trying to gather up
a pool of sunshine that lay close beside her.
There was a large turtle shell in one corner
with water in it, and that composed the
furniture of the arbour — for such it was.
She was intent upon gathering up the pool
of light, scooping at it, so to speak, with the
sharp of her little hand, and laughing to herself
as often as she failed.

Stone coughed and stood full in the doorway
with his head bowed and his head bared ;
he imagined she would scream out and spring
to her feet, and he busily rehearsed what to
say to her ; but instead, and without moving
any portion of her figure but her head, she
stared at him with a little bewildered frown
and then — smiled !

Stone tried to speak, but such was his
astonishment that the words stuck in his
throat. It was not only this reception —
VOL. 11.

the smile — the perfect tranquillity of her
manner that staggered him ; he was fascinated
by something he noticed — something
discoverable, but surely not interpretable by
him — in the expression of the purely soft,
startled, grey eyes she fixed upon him.
Again he essayed to speak ; some rumbling
sounds escaped him. Once more she smiled
with touching sweetness, and still preserving
that smile, turned to the little flood of sunshine
and tried to gather it up.

11 My God !" cried the old seaman aloud,
recoiling into the open by a stride, with an
involuntary, horrified toss of his hand. "She's
lost her mind."

As he spoke, Fortescue gripped his arm,
and with his other hand shading his eyes,
peered in through the entrance of the arbour.

THEY LEAVE THE ISLAND.

"Agatha! Agatha! My loved one! Agatha!"
These were the words which broke from
Fortescue when, unheeding the involuntary
terrified exclamation of the old seaman in the
transport of joy the mere sight of her kindled
in him, he sprang to her side and fell upon
his knees. God knows it was a sound you
might have said would thrill through a heart
of marble. No cry ever rose out of the
breathless calm or the thunderous warring of
the deep fuller of intense human feeling than
this. She started and looked at him, with a
gesture of terror snatched her hand from his,
and sat erect, pulling her beautiful hair forward
to hide her bosom, stared wildly from
him to Stone, who had entered and stood
near the doorway, and then glanced at the
open beyond and the blue sea that ran to the

distant heavens, with a quivering and scintillation
in her eyes which gave them the
resemblance of a trapped doe's.

Agatha ! my loved one ! Agatha — do not
you know me? For the love of Him who
has brought me to. you, look at me, and think,
and you will remember ! I am Malcolm —
your Malcolm — Malcolm Fortescue! Darling,
look at me and you will remember ! I have
been directed by God to seek you. I have
found you. I have come to take you
home. Oh! my beloved! think and you will
remember !"

It was evident she understood his words,
and there must have been something to
soothe her in the impassioned pathos of his
appealing voice, for she looked at him and
faintly smiled and shook her head.

"I do not remember," she answered.
How long have you been here ?"

We have just come''

Why have you come ?"

"To take you home," said Fortescue,
gazing intently at her, whilst his heart was
slowly turning into ice with the perception
borne in upon him by her manner, horribly

Indicative of the torpor of one or more of the
most powerful of the mental faculties.

"Home!" she exclaimed, and she put her
elbows upon her knees and pressed her
brows into her hands. " Home !" he heard
her whispering to herself. "Home!" And
then she began, as it seemed to him, to
wander, but after a little started up with
another quick, searching glance from Fortescue
to Stone, and springing to her feet with
marvellous grace and robust agility, she
cried: "Archer! Archer !"

Stone instantly said, " That'll be the name
of the man, sir. Hope to God he's living !
She'll be got away easier through him.
You see how it is, Mr. Fortescue. But by
the faith that's brought you to this and
proved you right for trusting', don't despair !"

"Archer! Archer!" she cried again, and
with a bound of her naked feet she sprang
through the door into the sunshine. They
followed ; the clergyman mechanically, as if
his mind were paralysed. Indeed, to find
her crazed, as he then deemed she was, had
never entered his imagination. A score of
dreadful fears had worked in him during the

passage. The prospect of the island being
empty, or the chance of finding her dead, or
dying, and so on, and so on ; but not this. It
was an utterly unexpected obtrusion of reality
upon him beyond the immediate powers of
his senses to grapple with, so that he could
find no will to direct him. Thus for a while
the devoted, adoring lover was converted into
a spectator, helpless, unnerved, with every
intuitive prompting in him neutralised by this
terrible and unanticipated confronting ; and
yet, when the glory of the sun, that was now
high, dazzled upon the snow of her beautiful
bust, shone through the auburn tangles of
tresses which her leap and the wind scattered,
he had sense enough to pull off his coat and
clap it over her shoulders, and you witnessed
the hopeful expression of the living principle
of modesty, in the eager manner in which she
clasped the garment and held it to her with a
movement expressive of gratitude, though she
did not even turn her face to him.

Where is Archer?" she cried. "He can
think for me. Oh, how bewildering it is!"
And she shook her head till the sparkles in
her hair danced like gold dust.

Stone ran to the slope, and saw the man
she called Archer in a sitting posture, with
William Breeches talking to him.

Can he speak? Is he able to pine us
here, Bill?"

Breeches motioned with his hand, and
after a few moments Archer stood up, and
leaning on the sailor's arm slowly approached.
Agatha remained standstill. It
was with a gleam of hope, shooting into
the black gulf of grief in his mind, that
Fortescue noticed she understood Stone
had gone to fetch Archer, for she had
been restless in her movements till the old
sailor called ; then she at once became
still, bending her face, full of extraordinary
wistfulness and bewilderment, towards the
figure of the seaman, and gazing as if with
pricked ear, and ready to bound away at
the least alarm. She never turned a glance
upon her lover. He felt like a man spellbound
in some dream through the passiveness
forced upon him by her. There were
delight, and devotional awe, and deep thanksgiving
in his perception that she was alive,
that she was where he had been bidden to

seek her ; that, rescued from the horrible
loneliness of the island by his hand, she
would be his again, his to bear to England,
his to cherish and love, even though
the blinded mind that knew him not should
never have its vision again. There was
delight in this. But it was frightful to
contemplate her in her attire, to behold his
gentle, pensive, intellectual Agatha of Wyloe
standing there radiant with a wild unfamiliar
beauty that was as the gift of the ocean to
her ; and frightful to perceive that, though
the intellect was not eclipsed, a veil of
dense, impenetrable texture had been let
fall over it, extinguishing him and all that
had gone before, as though her life had
begun only with the day then passing over
her head.

It was in this pause — giving time for his
soul to breathe after the shock that had
seemingly dashed the life from his yearning
heart — that his faculties gathered sharpness
afresh, and something of the iron will he had
brought with him from the schooner, and that
had come in answer to his prayer, returned to
him. He could notice now the healthful

brilliancy in her eyes, the roundness and
fulness of cheek and chin and limb, the
strengths erectness and singular grace of
her posture. It was amazing, past credibility,
indeed, that such a life as she had been living
for nine months, should, instead of attenuating
and enfeebling her to within a measurable
grip of death's fingers, have enriched her
beauty, and so wrought in her, that all that
health could impart of perfect queenliness to
her delicate, womanly charms of face and
figure and movement was hers, as she stood
before him, but never looking at him. Yet
so it was ; a veritably resplendent figure of
that pale Agatha he had kissed and parted
from on board the Yerulam, longer than a
year before. What had wrought the miracle?
Towards what new astonishing issue was
God's Providence working ?

The moment Archer appeared above the
slope she ran to him, with the floating
dancing movements of some wild island
creature that had never known the restraint
of dress, holding her lover's coat to her
shoulders, whilst her beautiful hair trembled
behind in a stream of ruddy light She

grasped the man's hand, and, as Fortescue
approached, she pointed to him and to the
others and said, in a voice full to her lover of
its old, rich, remembered sweetness, 'who
are these men ?"

Friends, miss. They have come to take
us away. We must leave the island, miss.
'Tis time," answered Archer, speaking feebly
and smiling at her, yet with a look of rough,
sailorly commiseration in the glance he threw
at Fortescue.

44 Then hold my hand, Archer. We will
go together. Do you know the way ?"

Ay, miss ; I know the way."

Let them go first ; if they follow "

She threw a startled, brilliant glance at Fortescue
and the two seamen, and talked to
herself, ceasing with a smile of heart-moving
pathos, for it was plain the sweetness of her
nature rose above all things in her.

11 Sir," said Archer, in a half-aside manner
to Fortescue, " I humbly beg pardon, but
'tis best we should have our way."

Let's be moving', then, in God's name !"
cried Stone, li or Capt'n Weeks'll be thinking
we've been made away with."

They walked to the boat. Agatha kept
her hold of Archer's hand, and Fortescue
heard her questioning him, and he answering
her and encouraging her. As yet the clergyman
hardly dared even think. In truth,
there was no basis for him to lay conjecture
upon ; he saw that her memory was gone,
and that her fellow-castaway was the only
human being that occupied her perception
and knowledge of life this side the blankness
in her mind ; but more he could not yet conceive.
Why, suppose such love as she,
in her existing mental condition, was capable
of, was bestowed on the tall, haggard, yet
manly-looking seaman walking in his ragged
attire beside her, holding her hand! Oh!
it was a shocking fancy to visit Fortescue,
to reward him for the bitter long months
of suffering he had passed through for
her sake! Stone saw his pale lips moving
in prayer, and it was this that kept the
old sailor silent, otherwise he would have
found enough to say. They came to the
creek.

"There's notion left behind — notion we'd
like to take away?" exclaimed Stone.

Nothing," responded Archer, looking
with greedy, feverish eyes at the boat. The
girl stared with a gather in her fair brow.
Fortescue noticed that the sight of the boat
bewildered her. She shut her eyes and
pressed her hands to her temples, and turning
swiftly, glanced eagerly from one to another,
with a brief resting, as it might be, of her
eyes on the clergyman's face. His heart
leapt in his bosom to it; yet in an instant he
saw that her directing her gaze at him signified
nothing. Archer entered the boat and
extended his hand, she seized it and seated
herself by his side, quite passive and vacant,
as though the flash of recollection that had
played upon her mind left it darker. The
others jumped in, and young Joe Hall, who
stared at the girl with mouth wide open,
shoved off. The three men plied their oars,
and soon the creek was astern, and the boat
heading to round the point.

Do you feel better now, Mr. Archer ?"
said Fortescue, in a low, tremulous voice, for
though he felt he had will and courage again,
the sitting near his beloved, meeting her
unrecognising eye, and observing the sort of

listless wonder her expression suggested as
she'd turn her head from the island to the
sea, was a dreadful and indeed a heartbreaking
ordeal for one so sensitive, so
faithful, so devoted as he to pass through.

"Yes, sir, thank you, sir," answered
Archer, with a moving light of gladness
upon his emaciated face, whose radical
comeliness would, in robust health, be
scarcely affected by the dim pock-marks
upon the skin. " Oh !" he cried, in a sudden
transport, yet with a shudder passing through
him as he looked at the island and tossed his
hands to clasp them vehemently, " God is
good to have sent ye, sir, to have sent ye,
comrades ! Nine months ! Is it possible ?
It might be nine years! Oh! true as that
sky there's blue, nothing heaving in sight all
that time ! Nothing, sir ! Nothing, mates !
How did you find us ? Who told you of us ?
Did ye come expressly ?"

Mr. Archer," answered Stone, after a
pause, during which he had peeped at the
clergyman who cast his eyes down, " The
God you call good is good, mate. 'Tis His
ordering'. Bill here knows. So do Joe Hall.

Ay, and we knows a good deal more. You'll
be hearing' the yarn, my lad. A more special
bit of h'orderin' there never was, either in or
out of Scripture. It's so special," he added,
looking with moist eyes at the blade of his
oar as he swung the bit of ash, goodnight
with sun and wet, over the blue swell, "that
bad as a martin matter may now appear, it's
bound to come right by virtue of God
A'mighty's eye been' over the whole job.
So observe. 'Tis an old sailor who says
It."

Ay," exclaimed Breeches, unexpectedly,
"an here sits another old sailor as is willing'
to put his mark to them observations, for he
believes in 'em !"

Oh ! Archer, look !" cried Agatha, breaking
from her semblance of passive stillness,
and pointing. It was the schooner, lying a
mile distant, and swaying on the swell ; a
beautiful image, with a flashing and fading of
her canvas to the rolls, and sometimes a slow
heave forwards that exposed a strip of her
sheathing which would send a sparkle of
rusty, reddish yellow across the brows of the
intervening folds. The soft trade-wind kept

the sea crispin all around her, and brought
the long, low, blue ridges racing and melting
to the boat. The air was filled with the
thunder of the surf upon the island, and
behind the brilliant whiteness the hues of the
vegetation broke upon the eye sharp and vivid.

Is that your vessel?" cried Archer, with
his eyes glowing as he looked.

"Ay," said Stone, "that's the Golden
Hope, belonging to Mr. Fortescue there,
bought specially for this here voyage ;" and
he turned his head to gaze at the schooner.

Can you tell what she is, miss ?" exclaimed
Archer, with a radiant face.

"Yes; the Golden Hope, belonging to
Mr. Fortescue," she replied, smiling at
Archer, as a child might at a person whose
remark it repeats accurately.

The clergyman's eyes, brimful of adoration,
grief, anxiety, were upon her as she
spoke ; but an indescribable expression of
anguish convulsed his face when he observed
that she repeated his name without the
faintest recognition of it, without the least
appearance of any stirring of memory responding
to it.

The men strained at their oars handsomely ;
the water broke aft in smoke to the vigorous
propulsion, and the rainbows in it seemed like
a scattering of flowers and gems upon the
path taken by the little fabric. On board the
schooner, Hiram stood on the rail holding to
a backstay, and the crew were on the forecastle
or in the foregoing. There was a
quietude amongst them, one and all, that
marked the astonishment with which they
surveyed the return of the boat with the
castaways in her ; their gaze was riveted, and
they stared without movement till all on a
sudden Hiram pulled off his cap, and waving
it in a frantic manner sent forth a neigh-like,
ear-splitting cheer that swept to the boat like
the report of a musket. Instantly the men
took it up, and three times they cheered at
the top of their pipes, with lungs of storm
and in a hurricane note ; whereupon Archer,
standing up in the boat, flourished his hand
and sought to answer with a cheer, but the
wavering sound broke off dead in a wild sob,
and he sat down to hide his eyes upon the
ragged sleeve of his jacket.

In another moment the boat was alongside

the schooner. The gangway was open,
short steps were over the side, and Stone
sprang aboard to give his hand to Agatha.
Fearing his coat would fall from her
shoulders and expose her beauty in its
misery of rags to the eyes of the seamen,
Fortescue buttoned it around her. He
knelt on a thwart to do this and she remained
seated. Had she been a statue she could
not have been more perfectly passive. His
face was close to hers, their very breath
mingled, and as he adjusted the coat he
gazed with such impassioned wistfulness
into her eyes, that you would have sworn
memory in her must have been slain indeed
by suffering, not to have trembled, however
faintly, into life to the appeal. But she
was absolutely torpid ; the mechanism of
being was in her, but no definable spirituality
; the excitement raised in her by the
spectacle of the schooner, if indeed it had
been the stirring of any such emotion, was
but as a shadow and a gleam that, passing
over the features of the dead, give them a
momentary semblance of vitality. She
met her lover's looks, then turned her
vol. 11. s

eyes, with an unheeding expression in them,
to the people who were standing in the
gangway, and afterwards to the island.
She was indeed like one acting in sleep.

Fortescue took one hand, Stone the
other, and as the schooner rolled to the
boat they swung her to the gangway ; but
it was her own doing mainly, and every
man noticed the exquisite grace of her
bound from the boat to the schooner, and
her smile as she turned as though to seek
Archer.

She was no sooner on board than Breeches,
in the boat, bawled out, "Hooray!" The
cry was echoed by the men, and three more
hearty cheers were given. Hiram, flinging
his cap on deck, came up to Fortescue with
his hands outstretched.

Sir," he cried, in the manner of a man
about to shed tears, " God's ways are
wonderful, sure-ly ! Ye have your wish —
the object of the voyage is attained. It's
enough to make the whole blooming' ship's
company, barren' William Stone, feel sneaks
for ever questioning' the wisdom of your determination."


IN THE CABIN.

Hiram turned to address Agatha. Stone,
interrupting, said, with a face full of gloom,
41 Capt'n, better leave the lady to Mr. Fortescue,"
and he made a singular gesture with
his hand. Even as he spoke, the clergyman,
holding Agatha, was gently impelling her to
the companion-hatch. Indeed, he was half
crazy to hide her, in that attire, from the
inspection of the men, in whom curiosity and
wonder were too powerful to be neutralised
by instincts of deference. How could it have
been otherwise with them ? They had never
beheld, they could never have imagined, such
a picture. A beautiful and robust girl, with
the glow of health in her cheeks, like to some
noble marine fancy of an ocean nymph, with
her dense fall of shining hair radiant on her
back, and as much of her limbs as was visible

above her naked feet, with them, showing a
loveliness of proportion and of delicacy uninjured
to the sight by the tropical scarlet of
exposure. The rough fellows might have
imagined her, indeed, to be the spirit of the
island, to which the clergyman's dream would
impart magical properties, and suspected her
to have clothed her beauty, for mere wanton
fun, with the spoils of some shipwrecked
woman strangled and shredded by the sea.
But their gaze was torture to Fortescue.
At the words of Stone, Captain Weeks had
fallen back and stood looking on, wondering.
With her hand in his, Fortescue led her to
the companion, and it seemed to him that
she accompanied him with some perception
of his eagerness to conceal her. He may
have imagined this from recalling those instincts
of modesty which had caused her to
gather her hair about her ; or was it that
she had actual discernment of his wishes
and her own needs ? Once she stopped
and glanced back and said, " Where is
Archer ?" to which the clergyman made
no reply. On this a strong expression of
bewilderment clouded her face, she knitted

her brow and gazed earnestly at the deck
as though lost in thought ; he gently strained
her hand, whereupon she started, glanced at
him strangely, and moved afresh. They descended
the companion-ladder, and together
they entered the cabin he had prepared for
her.

He closed the door and looked at her a
little while. She, balancing her figure, as
though to the manner born, upon the swaying
deck of the schooner heaving upon the swell,
stood glancing from one object to another in
the cabin with unquestioned sensibility in her
gaze ; but it was the sensibility of the child
that sees a thing without being able to give it
its title or name its use ; it was a sort of
curiosity, in its way ; but whatever it was,
there was mind in it. Her lover stood looking
at her, and several times she met his
glance and passed her eyes onwards to what
was next without alteration in their expression.
He had meant to be calm, to rest
thankful to Almighty God for this issue of his
darling's deliverance from the horrible loneliness
of the island, to mask his grief and
burning love under the reserve of a deliberate

will bent only upon ministering to her mind's
health as best he could ; by such perception,
for instance, as he could bring to bear upon
the art of restoring the numbed or dormant
faculty of memory, if, indeed, it were not
dead in her. These, and much more, had
been his resolves as he sat in the boat
watching her, and he had again and again
emphasised to himself the need of coolness,
patience, faith, that he might preserve an
unemotional exterior, for somehow to him
this condition seemed demanded — possibly it
was only suggested — by her own impassiveness.
But whilst he stood looking at her, the
flood of his love, in a hundred uncontrollable
emotions and passions, swept away his
resolutions. He thought of Wyloe, their
meetings, their walks upon the beach, the
whispers and the kisses they had exchanged.
He thought of the mad sorrow that broke
him down when he learnt that her health
obliged her step-father to take her with him
to India ; he recalled the entrancing dreams
he had dreamt when, as he deemed, the hour
of their nuptials was approaching ; of the
sailing of the Merula, of all that had

happened since ; and seeing her standing-there
before him, his own, his beautiful
Agatha, more beautiful than ever he had
remembered her for the ocean wildness that
had come into her loveliness with its glow
and breeze, and the spirit of the freedom of
the dancing seas, and marking the responding
glance she gave him, his manhood broke
down, his soul gave way, and with a gesture
full of anguish and adoration he grasped her
hands and cried to her : —

"Agatha! my Agatha! look at me! Do
not you know me ? Is there nothing in
my voice, nothing in my face to touch
remembrance in you ? Blessed God ! He
knows, my darling, how I have searched
for thee, how I have mourned thee — it was
He who led me to thee, my own. He
showed me all in a vision, Agatha ! Look
into your heart, my loved one ! Cast your
eyes inward — think ! The loss of the
Merula, the island, your forlorn figure
appealing to me, darling — I saw it all ina
vision. I have come all these miles to
you, believing in God's love and mercy.
Oh ! reward me — my darling — reward me

by knowing me ! Think, now ! My name
is Malcolm Fortescue — your Malcolm. We
were to be married — you sailed for India
in the Merula — the Merula — and she
was burnt, and the boat you were in
reached the island — cannot you remember ?"
and the poor fellow's voice fainted into a
note of pain, a distressful moan of bitter
suffering as he dropped her hands, gazing into
her face that would have been blank but
for a half-formed expression of dull surprise.

She shook her head and smiled. " I do
not understand," she said. " Archer knows
all about me. He has told me so I know
that there is a great deal gone — I feel it
here," touching her forehead. She sighed
and looked wistfully at him. "It is like
waking up in the night ; everything is dark.
Is it not strange ? Sometimes I think I
have suffered — suffered." She dropped her
head as she repeated the word, and he
watched her lips moving, but could not catch
any accents, till he noticed her smiling as she
followed the swaying of her foot upon the
carpeted deck.

Her speech and manner drove him back

upon himself, and with a supreme effort he
entered again upon his resolution to be cool,
patient, deliberate. The chest of wearing
apparel he had brought with him stood in
the cabin ; he raised the lid and took one
article after another from the box, placing
one thing upon a chair, another upon the
deck, a third in the bunk, and so on ; thus
rendering everything conspicuous and, as he
hoped, suggestive, to her. Now and again
he would lightly glance at her, when he
would regularly find her watching his movements
with something of intentness. When
he had made such display of apparel as
was necessary, he said, commanding himself
nobly and touching her ragged attire, " Will
you remove these things? Here are clean,
comfortable clothes' meant to replace these
tatters."

A rich colour flushed her face, she glanced
at the door with a troubled eye. That she
understood him was as visible a thing as was
the particular glory of her beauty at that
moment, and with a sudden hysteric swelling
of the heart he left her, closed the cabin door,
and going to the table sat down at it with his

elbows upon it and his hands clasped upon
his head.

It was some time past noon ; on deck they
had hoisted the boat, braced round the ,
and the Golden Hope, as any
man sitting in the cabin might have known,
was once more yielding to the pressure of the
wind, and sweeping with her peculiar eager
clipper swing over the blue waters. Presently
the boy Johnny came below to prepare the
table for dinner; a moment after he was
followed by Captain Weeks. He pulled off
his cap and looked under his drooping eyelids
at Fortescue, with a face full of rough and
hearty sympathy, yet mixed with a congratulatory
air and an expression of complacency.

11 Homeward bound at last, sir!" he exclaimed,
in as soft a tone as he could put into
his voice, " Sou'-sou'-west for the Cape, Mr.
Fortescue, and our errand finished!" He
stopped short; the curate started.

Ha!" he cried. " Homeward bound, of
course, captain. I should have forgotten
that, though I knew by the motion that the
schooner was under way."

I ought to tell ye, sir," said Hiram, in a

low, hoarse, solemn voice, "that after this
job I'm a-going' to believe in visions. No
man'll ever hear Hiram Weeks scorning' of
dreams again. Why, now, I repose in th'
olden days, Mr. Fortescue, they'd have considered
ye an inspired prophet for being able
to know beforehand what's to happen, and
where to find what ye want ? A sorter
Moses or Elijah? Talk of God's hand
being visible ! I've seen a good deal of the
blessed ways o' Providence on what's termed
the great waters, where, for the most part, a
man's in a bad way if th' Almighty's eye
ain't upon him ; but there's nothing I ever
heard or seed to beat your dream, sir.
Fancy a-findin' of her after all !" He tossed
his hands and rolled up his eyes till only the
whites were visible. "And in blooming'
health, sir — leastways to the sight ; a most
handsome woman ! Think of her shown'
like that after nine months of it ! Ay, and
imagine our mission' of the island and leaving
her and that there Archer, poor chap, to
their fate, eh, sir ! Tell 'ee what, Mr. Fortescue,
there's bin some wonderful working in
this job, sir."

44 There has, indeed, captain, there has,
indeed," exclaimed the clergyman in a low
voice. 44 I could have wished for an issue
more merciful — happier, I should say — I

mean — I mean " He faltered, and said,

you know she has lost her memory."

Why, yes, sir," said Hiram, with respectful
sympathy. " Bill Stone accounted for
the sign he made by remarking' that she'd
lost one or two faculties." Mr. Fortescue
did not speak. " But I shouldn't take on
about that, sir," continued Hiram. 4l If it's
only memory that's gone adrift you'll find it
won't be far off. I'll tell ye of a singular
case. A chap I knew fell down a ship's
hold ; he was picked up senseless, and when
they'd restored him he'd got no recollection.
He was a widower with a darter. Now, he
didn't know his darter. But how d'ye think
he was cured ? His darter was alongside
of him one day with some scent upon her
pocket handkerchief that was given her by the
young party she was keeping' company with.
Before he fell down the hold he'd taken a
fancy to that scent, and had bought a bottle of
it for himself on the sly by way o' cultivation

after hours. Well, sir, when he smelt that
there perform he turned to and sniffed and
snuffled, and some one says to the girl, ' Put
the handkerchief to his nose,' an' after he had
taken several draws at it, he sings out, ' Sally,
my child !' known' her, and bursts out a
weeping'. That's as true as I'm standing
here, sir. If I was you I wouldn't take
much notice of the young lady's memory
been' adrift. 'Taint broke loose ; yell find
fretting's bin and let too much line out."

He emphasised this opinion by many
demonstrative and energetic, but perfectly
respectful, nods of the head and motions of
the hands, and then casting an eye at
Johnny, who was coming down the steps
with a piece of steaming beef on a dish,
he said, "Beg pardon for the question, sir;
do the lady dine with us ?"

I will see. I should wish it, Captain
Weeks — the more she sees, the more that
is spoken in her presence, the sooner, please
God, may her memory dawn."

"True, sir, I think ye're right; I'll slip

on my Sunday coat ," he was going to

his cabin — "Ha! I forgot that that was

your berth now, but my duds are there,
an' I'll have 'em out of it after dinner."

"Where is Archer?"

11 The men took him below when sail
was trimmed, to give him a rig-out ; he
wants it, and likewise a washdown."

"Will he have had his dinner?"

I doubt."

I should like him to dine with us. I
have many questions to ask him, and he
must have a long story to tell. I should
desire him to talk before the young lady —
before Miss Fox. 'Tis impossible to guess,
captain, what faculty in her might be stirred
by his narrative and our questions. Oh,
let her but know me !" he cried, with a
sudden burst of emotion — "it breaks my
heart to meet her eyes and to find no
recognition in them !"

"Johnny," exclaimed Hiram, "run forrard
and tell Archer he's expected to dine in the
cabin, and to come along at once." The
boy jumped on deck. " Mr. Fortescue,
I've talked of changing' my coat, sir ; but
perhaps we'd sooner be alone with Archer
and the lady."

M No, no. I want both yours and Stone s
company. Can that be managed?"

"Oh, yes. Breeches can keep a look-out;
there's notion wants watching."

He withdrew to the berth he had heretofore
used, and Fortescue, going to the door of
Agatha's cabin, bent his head and listened.
All was still within. He knocked, but
received no answer ; then gently turned the
handle and looked in. She was standing
beside the bunk, leaning with her right elbow
upon it, and gazing through the little scuttle
in the vessel's side. She was dressed in the
things he had scattered before her, her robe
being a loose-fitting dress buttoning in front
like a dressing-gown, and like that sort of
garment confined round the waist by a band.
He stood looking a moment or two, she being
unaware of his presence, and it was with a
passionate leap of hope in his heart that he
noticed she had dressed herself with perfect
appreciation of the use of every article of
attire. She had even tried on several pairs
of heeled shoes, convenient in their way as
slippers, as he could tell by observing them
about the deck ; nay, she had explored the

chest for them, for he had produced and laid
down but one pair. Her hair alone was
untouched ; this remained in its rough and
tangled beauty. Yet he knew, by glancing at
the table upon which were the articles of
toilet, that she had used a brush, and he at
once presumed that she had abandoned as
hopeless the effort of penetrating her hair
with the bristles. To all this his heart beat
as fast as a baby's, and with a feverish
tumultuousness ; for what did it signify? If
memory were missing in her, there was bound
to exist a species of perception — if it were
not a pure government of instinct directed by
a mechanism of habit set going by objects
she felt the need of, though she could only
recognise them as needs without the capacity
of naming them, or of feeling the lack of them
till she saw them — I say, there was bound to
exist a species of perception that was so like
memory as to serve as the shadow, perhaps
prove the fore-runner of it. He thought so
at least ; and a singular exultation filled him
as his mind rushed headlong through conjectures.


He coughed, she turned, and he approached

her. There was a momentary
hope in him that this time she would know
him! Instead, a slightly startled light shone
in her eyes, and for an instant she assumed a
position that recalled a similar attitude he
had seen in her in the island, as if she would
bound away from him. But it was like the
scintillations raised by a tremble of wind
upon the surface of a calm space of water ;
impassivity wrought in her again as a spell,
marbling her face, yet leaving there all the
peculiar sweetness of her beauty that had
been rendered glowing and romantic by her
island life.

He tried her yet once more, taking her
hand which she let him hold, and fixing his
dark, burning, yearning eyes upon hers :
Agatha, do not you know me ?"

You saw her struggling with her mind ere
she shook her head, and then she exclaimed,
You call me Agatha. Is that my name ?"

"Yes; Agatha."

"Agatha'' she repeated, in a musing way.
11 1 thought it was Miss. Archer always called
me so."

Do you remember Archer ?"

VOL. II. T

"Oh, yes," she answered, smiling. "Archer
has been my companion. He is so good, so
kind, so gentle. He came with us here.
Where is he ?"

Mr. Fortescue went into the cabin to see if
the man had arrived. Agatha followed, and
standing at the table glanced about her in a
sort of mechanical way, like one perfectly
absent-minded and acting through force of
habit. It was this at least that her demeanour
suggested, and possibly it was the notion
of Hiram, who, emerging from his berth at
that moment with a polished face and in a
new cloth coat, contorted his figure into a
bow that had like to have broken his spine,
without receiving any other acknowledgment
than a stare of wonder not unmixed with
alarm.

Then Stone and Archer arrived. The
latter had been helped by the men forward
to articles of attire which, altogether,
equipped him from head to foot. Nay,
so eager was he for civilisation, that in
the short time he had been in the forecastle
he had got Goldsmith to shear his
hair and beard close ; soap and clean linen

had done the rest, so that there entered,
along with Stone, a fine, tall, manly-looking
seaman, a person who, in full health and
vigour, promised a herculean shape. Dark
as was his face with sunburn, pitted as it
was with pock-marks, lined and hollowed
into gauntness by the physical sufferings
and mental anguish of shipwreck, yet you
instantly detected now the honest, frank,
resolute look underlying all, the English
sincerity of heart and soul in his small,
clear, keen eyes, and the dominating qualities
of the true sailor in his bearing. He
stood modestly at the foot of the steps and
knuckled his forehead to Fortescue. Agatha
uttered an exclamation when she saw him
and ran to his side.

In a voice full of deference, he said, " Ah,
miss, 'tis a wonderful release ! You look
like the lady you was aboard the poor old
Merula !" And quitting her he approached
the clergyman closer. " Mr. Fortescue," he
said, in a low voice, " I know your name, sir
and a bit of your wonderful story too, sir
the men have been yarning, as sailors will.
I would humbly implore you as a fellow-man

to judge true in your lady's apparent leaning'
towards me. Her memory's gone. I would
to God it were otherwise for your sake and
hers ; but it's gone — not for good, I believe ;
but nothing else is missing. The pure
flower ye parted with you've got back pure ;
and I know, for I'd seen her on the Indian,
and I've watched her on the island. I
say ye're got her back pure an', as I know,
more blooming' and beautiful than when ye
said good-bye. There's naught but one thing
missing," he touched his forehead ; "and this
that I tell you, sir, is true, on the honour of a
plain English sailor man."

Fortescue took his hand in both his and
pressed it.

I thank you — I thank you," he murmured,
but more for the moment his emotions
would not permit him to whisper.

They seated themselves at the little table ;
there were five of them, but there was room.
The skylight lay open and the warm wind
came sweeping down through it out of the
hollows of the sails with a resonant vibratory
in it that caused one to think of the
humming of locusts. At the head of the

table was Hiram, at the foot Stone ; Archer
sat on a port locker, and Fortescue and
Agatha faced him. She had let her lover
bring her to her seat, and she took it in a
way half-mechanical (it is necessary to repeat
this word) and half-dreamy. Her presence
was an irradiation of the plain and homely
little cabin ; and, as though the fancy needed
accentuation, her hair, thickened yet by its
tangled state, caught the flowing sheen
rippling in whatever was bright or polished,
and filled a little space of the atmosphere
about her head with a golden radiance of its
own. Her manner varied ; at moments there
would be an expression of extreme surprise
in her eyes as she gazed from one face to
another, then round the cabin, then upon the
table ; then an air of listlessness would
harden her as though it was a demeanour of
icy reserve, and she would stare straight past
one as though arrested by some object
beyond ; at such moments her lips would
move sometimes in audible disjointed sounds;
yet the light of the sweetness of her heart
lay always upon her, and whether she
smiled or was grave you knew that whatever

faculties stirred in her were healthy and
lovely.

Mr. Archer," said Mr. Fortescue, whose
control over himself was now evident — though
God knew how much of that control he owed
to the few words the man facing him had let
fall, " I was anxious that we should all dine
together — be together, indeed — that the story
I want you to tell me and the conversation
that may arise from it should be heard by
Miss Fox. I will not believe that her memory
is dead — dead beyond possibility of recovery.
We must speak freely before her, leave what
we say to act as a challenge, trusting to-almighty
God, who has watched over her,
that something we may say, some name we
may pronounce, may kindle afresh the lamp
whose flame is extinguished. What do you
think ?"

I agree with you, sir," said Archer,
simply.

The clergyman looked at Hiram.

It's th' idea that's bin' in me ever since
I see her jump aboard," answered Captain
Weeks. " It'll come embarrassing' like for
us to be talking about her as if she wor deaf,.

we known' she's a-listenin'. But depend
upon it, the way to reach what you might
tarn a defunct organ is to talk at it as if
it wur alive. The human mind's a rum
concern," looking at Archer with very protruding
eyes ; " it's got something of the
nature of a worm about it ; cut a bit off,
that bit ain't dead — not it ! — it's only disjointed.
Give the rest a chance and it and
the it'll reunite. I've seen it happen. I
know what I'm talking' about."

Fortescue looked at Stone.

I don't think you could do better, sir,"
said the old seaman. " It's taxing of one's
sensitiveness, sartenly ; but it's an intellectual
physic there's no harm in train' the young
lady with. I beg your pardon, sir, for
venturing to take notice of one thing ; you'll
observe she's using her knife and fork. Now,
Mr. Archer, ye had neither knives nor forks
on the island."

A knife, but ne'er a fork, certainly not,"
responded Archer.

Well," continued Stone, " if it ain't
memory that's enabling her to make a proper
use of articles she lost all reck'ning of afore

her memory went, what's the instinct that's
operation' ?"

"No use going into that, Bill," said Hiram.
What moves a man when he walks in his
sleep and acts as if he seed things ? What
makes a chap with a wooden leg feel as if his
toes was attaching ? There's some touches
a trifle beyond people's intelligence, my lad.
It's thole-pins as makes the oar of use, and if
ye stick in mere notions instead of facts to
prize your reason against, ye'll make no headway,
and so I tells yer !"

It would have startled and pained you
to hear them talking, whilst you noticed
that she whom their conversation concerned
heeded them with the languid interest of a
person who listens to a discussion perfectly
uninteresting. The shock of the thing
Fortescue felt when he looked round at
her, and .noticed her eyes fixed with no
more attention in them than those of a
portrait.

"It's more strange nor cruel, sir," said
Archer, divining the curate's thoughts.
You're on the right track, I'm sure.
I've tried it myself— talked to her till I've

thought by the way she'd press her eyes
that recollection was returning. But what
had the likes of me to remind her of
except her misery ? It'll be different with
you — something'll be said — a song sung—
you'll use a term — mention a name — and
it'll be like a Bible miracle, sir. Ye'll
look and find her eyes full of you !"

The moisture came into his own as he
ended huskily, and poor old Stone gave a
tearful sniff.

There was a little pause; then Fortescue,
turning to Agatha, exclaimed in a low voice,
trembling with feeling, " My darling, do
you know what we are talking about ?"

She answered " No," smiling and shaking
her head.

We are speaking about you."

"Yes?"

"About Agatha Fox, of Falmouth— of
you. Agatha — Agatha Fox — it is your name.
Do you remember ?"

11 You just now said that it was Agatha ; is
it Fox too ? On the island it was Miss —
was it not, Archer, Miss ?"

I always called you Miss," he answered.

Mr. Fortescue," cried Stone, suddenly,,
greatly overcome. "It's a dreadful loss, that
of memory ! A man might forget his God I"
he added. " Sir, I beg pardon ; mates, I beg
your pardon. It'll come right, sir! It'll
come right !"

It'll come right, as you say, Bill," exclaimed
Hiram, in a deep voice. " Right's
often long a-comin'', but we've got three
oceans afore us, and we can wait."

archer's story.

There was not much said during dinner.
Once or twice Archer spoke about the food,
the sweetness of it, its strangeness to him
after the fare he had been used to. He ate
heartily and Agatha also made a fair meal,
sometimes pausing, in a curious manner, to
lay down her knife and fork and lean her
forehead upon her hand as though her head
ached. She took whatever was given her,
drank a glass of generous wine Fortescue
had stored in the schooner in anticipation of
this time, met the looks of the others with
dreamy, inquiring tranquillity that was like
a kind of hauteur in her, if it had not been
for the sweetness of her expression at all
times. When Archer, influenced by an uncontrollable
rush of feeling, after an eager,
rapturous look round at the cabin, cried out

his gratitude for this merciful release, his
wonder to find himself on board a vessel
homeward bound, and then with streaming
eyes reached across his trembling hand to
grasp the clergyman's, afterwards shaking
Hiram's and Stone's, blessing them and
thanking God, Agatha watched him as if his
emotion rendered him unfamiliar to her, and
she was puzzling over his identity. Nothing
more than that could her lover trace in her
face, though he noticed, when Archer had
ceased speaking, that she fastened her eyes
upon him, withdrawing them after a long
stare under faintly-knitted brows to slowly
inspect, first Hiram, then Stone, and then
himself, turning to peer into his face ;
whereby, her soft gray eyes being close
to his, he imagined he witnessed in them
a light of curiosity dimmed by bewilderment,
as though the spirit within her were
straining to see through the dusky veil
that had been dropped between it and
the clear intelligible vision of outward
things.

The boy cleared the table, but the five
remained seated.

"Mr. Archer," said Mr. Fortescue, "you
were the boatswain of the Yerulam ?"

I was, sir."

I may have seen you in the Downs
when I boarded the ship to say farewell
to Miss Fox. I am not sure. But
whether or not, I saw you clearly in the
wonderful dream that brought me to the
island. On the night I arrived at the
village I lived in, after leaving Deal, I
dreamt that I beheld the Merula under
full sail under a blue sky, blown along by
a sparkling wind. The night came down —
I saw the ship on fire, I watched her burning,
I beheld the boats leave her, and next,
one lonely boat I saw, steered by you with
this lady by your side, men dead or dying
overhanging the gunwale ; for many days
you must have been thus situated — was it
not so ?"

Fourteen days, sir," answered the man,
shuddering.

Then I beheld the island — the boat went
to pieces in the surf, a few figures scrambled
ashore, amongst them you and this young
lady — it was your hand that bore her through

the furious foam, and when you were landed
she fell upon her knees in a thanksgiving to
God and afterwards arose and appealed tome
— appealed to me — thus !" He started to
his feet and extended his hands — then turning
to his sweetheart, he exclaimed in a
voice of touching sweetness, " Oh, my
Agatha ! my Agatha ! was it not so ? was
it not so?"

She shook her head without answering.
Memory would not help her, and she could
not understand him. He seated himself and
resumed, with his eyes upon the fascinated
look of Archer.

When I saw Miss Fox in my dream she
was white, hollow-eyed ; indeed, she was like
a spectre. That was her appearance on
reaching the island ?"

Yes, sir."

11 I know it!" he exclaimed, with a fire in
his eyes. " There is no detail of my vision
that has not been verified, that has not been
confirmed by the guiding of Almighty God.
My wonder is, therefore, how is it that Miss
Fox, who left England in poor health, who
was of all delicately-nurtured ladies the one

most unfitted to encounter and survive the
privations and horrors of shipwreck and nine
months of frightful loneliness and hopelessness
upon an island — how is it, Mr. Archer,
that we find her as she is — marvellously welland
never so beautiful ?"

There was a pause ; they all looked at her ;
she had been watching Fortescue while he
spoke. Their eyes met, she smiled and said,
You are talking of Miss Fox — Agatha Fox
of me ! That is my name, you say ; I
know it now. I can remember it."

Wonderful !" muttered Stone. " And yet
she can't go back !"

"It's easily seen, if it ain't to be understood,"
exclaimed Hiram, speaking with a
sideways manner, a half reference to her,
such an air as one has in the presence of a
deaf person of whose complete deafness one
is not sure; "it's like a theater; there's been
a shift o' scene that's shut out the view
behind, and notion's onderstandable but what
happens this side."

"Mr. Fortescue," said Archer, "if I spin
ye, in a few words, the yarn of our being castaway
and how we managed on the island,

you'll be able, I've no doubt, sir, to collect
answers to the inquiries in your mind from
what I say."

The clergyman bowed his head, and Stone
and Hiram composed themselves in an attitude
of close attention. Agatha, putting her
elbow on the table, leant her chin upon her
hands, and in that posture kept her eyes fixed
on the seaman, listening as though the narrative
was imaginary.

"I'll not speak," began Archer, after a
little spell of thinking, and beginning with a
tremor in his voice, "of how we got away
from the Indieman, nor of our fourteen days
of suffering'. Miss Fox was the only female
in the boat, and she was like an angel
amongst us, singing to us, telling us stories,
calling upon us to keep up heart, — though
her sufferings soon grew bad, and worse yet
when the water ran short ; and besides, I
knew she was ate up by memory, for it
wasn't only she was separated from the
gentleman that was her step-father, but in her
sleep she'd speak of you, Mr. Fortescue, and
sob till her tears woke her up. 'Twas the
fourteenth day, burning hot, a light air blowing

and we sailing along with it. In the
second week we'd cast four bodies overboard
; two on that day lay in the bottom of
the boat, and I remember, since you mentioned
it, that some of the men lolled over
the sides more like corpses, if indeed they
weren't, than living beings, so fearful was
their weakness, for the most of them couldn't
be restrained from drinking salt-water. We
sighted the island a little afore noon, as I
supposed it was, by the sun, and approached
it fast. I noticed the surf, and had a sort of
dim fear, like, it was too heavy for any boat to
live in ; yet I was that stagnated by thirst
and hunger and pains, I felt a kind of indifference,
the same as being mad, and I likewise
remember arguing to myself that if we
ran to leeward to find a landing we might be
blowed away as we was certainly too weak to
pull an oar ; and, nobody saying' anything, I
just steered the boat straight for the island
with her head for the smother. It was in
the moment of oversetting I catched hold of
the young lady, and the surf bringing us to
our feet in a tremendous roar of thunder, we
were saved ; but I allow she had as much to

VOL. II. U

do with it as me, for I found her steady again
the backward, which, if it had taken her,
would have carried me along too. We
stepped clear of the smother and then it was
she fell upon her knees and afterwards stood
up, stretching out her hands as you described,
though been' half-dead myself I took
no notice of it. Two men besides us, Dick
Stimson and Michael Williams, got ashore
likewise ; but I never see no more of the
others ; I never see no more of the boat ;
'twas like blowing out a light, the job over
in a breath, and there was the four of us —
castaways."

Agatha listened to him with a child-like
look of interest. Only Fortescue glanced
at her. The others felt a diffidence, and
watched Archer as if he was the only person
in the cabin.

The first thing we did was to search for
water, and we found it."

Stone interrupted : "I know where. It
was lukewarm and tasted as if lucifer matches
had been boiled in it."

Right," continued Archer; "but we
afterwards found that the taste o' brimstone

wore off when the water was left to stand.
We got some cocoa-nuts and crabs and made
a meal, frying the crabs on a fire I made out
o' some dry brushwood, kindling' the stuff
with a burning glass I had in my pocket and
which I was 'customer to light my pipe with
at sea. We made use of the sun to dry our
clothes, and I then turned to and explored
the island and found several caves or hollows,
in one of which I laid down a lot o' grass
and leaves, and that place served Miss Fox
as a house fur some time."

At the sound of her name she looked at
Mr. Fortescue and smiled. The four men
held their breath, conceiving by her manner
that a light had struck in upon her ; but the
marble passivity of expression stole over her
beauty again, like the thin glazing of water
by a frosty wind, and once more she leaned
her face in her hands and sat listening.

What island we was upon we couldn't
imagine. We had drifted about, in them
fourteen days, and had no notice of any
reckoning. From the top of the hill there
was nothing to be seen. It was a whole
world of ocean, and, so help me God! Mr.

Fortescue, as I'm sitting here to say it,,
mates, in all the nine months as you've told
me we've been cast away — in all them nine
months — I never once saw a sail, never once
in all that time see anything to look like a
sail, if it weren't a tip of cloud, or a breaking
sea against the blue sky, or a stretch of dark
vapour. At the first going' off we'd make a
smoke, regular every morning, and keep the
fire a-going', but that business used up the dry
stuff fast, and then we agreed it was only
wasting of fuel, that we'd better store it,
and keep a look-out, and have the stuff
ready to make a smoke with if a vessel
hove in sight. We each had a cave to lie
in, and we built a sort of fire-place for
cooking, which consisted of toasting and
roasting the turtle, crabs, or whatever we
caught, by slinging bits by a grass line we
laid up, made fast to boughs of trees, rigged
like shears over the fire-place. We three
men had a knife apiece. The lady ailed
dreadfully. She tried long to bear up and
be cheerful, but her situation with three
sailors alone upon an island — that, Mr.
Fortescue, and the days going by without

showing us a chance of rescue — I say, her
situation broke her down. She wasted
away. Often she'd pass a whole day
without eating. She grew very reserved,
too, wouldn't speak, and I feared she was
going out of her mind. One morning, and
I suppose we'd been on the island six
weeks, she told me she was afraid of the
man named Dick Stimson. She said she'd
noticed him looking at her in a way to terrify
her, and that the night before she had seen
his figure — the moon was shining behind him
moving about outside the cave she slept
in. She told me she mustn't scream for
fear he'd run in upon her. Well, when I
heard this, not having observed anything
particular myself, for both men seemed civil
to her — in a gruff sort of fashion, I allow,
but civil enough anyways — I concluded
that her alarm was a sign of her mind
going, for I've always heard that first
symptoms of insanity lies in a person
thinking people wants to injure 'em. But
for all that I determined to keep my weather
-eye lifting, for I may as well say, Mr. Fortescue,
though God knows not from any

partiality to blowing my own trumpet, that
I had from the beginning made up my
mind to stand by the lady, come what
might — and I won't say this was my
resolve more for her own sake — and a
gentler, truer lady never lived, sir — and
for the fearful position she was placed in
than for the sake of my own wife at home —
of my own wife and my daughter, a girl of
twelve ; for I had only got to consider what
I should expect of a sailor man, if either
one or the other of them was cast away
with him, as Miss Fox was with me, to
understand my duty. And I've done it,
Mr. Fortescue ! I've done it, and I'm grateful
to Almighty God I'm able to look ye
in the face and say it. I've done it, sir,
and any apparent leanings she shows me
is simply because I'm this side of her poor
memory, and she likes me because I washer
companion, and that's all — that's all !"
He stopped, looking at her with a moving
wistfulness as if he would have her confirm
his words ; but now her eyes were upon the
table and she seemed lost in thought, her lips
lightly moving. The clergyman extended

his arm across the table and, catching up the
sailor's hand, rose, bowed his head over it
and kissed it. The act affected Archer so
deeply that for some time he could not
proceed. The silence was broken by Hiram,
who, speaking huskily and addressing nobody
in particular, said : —

"There's parties as goes about ashore
declaring' that the British mariner's a decayed
man, a lubberly loafer given up to drink."
He fetched a deep breath. " Bill," he exclaimed,
sternly fixing his projecting eyes on
Stone, " after this here experience, if so be
it's ever my luck to come across one of them
jawing scaramouch, I'll whop him, ay, even
if he's half as tall as the moniment, and all
beef at that !" Then, drawing another and
an easier breath, he folded his arms, and
addressing Archer, he said, " Heave ahead,
bully."

This endearing marine term Archer acknowledged
by a grateful smile.

"Well," he continued, "as I was saying,
I determined to keep an eye upon this here
Dick Stimson, though I'm bound to say, till
Miss Fox complained neither him nor t'other

had behaved in any manner to cause me uneasiness.
Indeed, this Stimson was a very
smart hand, quick at catching birds, nimble
in hunting for shell-fish and the like, and had
even gone so far as to cut a hook out of a
piece of hard wood and make a line out of
grass and catch some of the queer-looking,
queer-coloured fish that used to be grubbing
about the creek at low water. But anyway
I watched him, and then I took notice of a
manner of looking at the lady that made me
sharpen my eyes properly. Mr. Fortescue,
what I am now going to tell you. I'll passover
as quick as words'll let me. 'Twas one
night ; there was no moon, but a fine, clear
dusk. I was lying in my cave, about fifty
feet distant from where Miss Fox was lodged,
when I heard her give a cry, just one shrill
scream. I was up and out in a breath, and
saw her wrestling with one of the men. I
afterwards got to see, by recollecting of their
attitudes as they stood up, that her fright
had made her the stronger of the two ; for he
wanted to break away, but she had his hair in
one hand and her teeth in his left arm. I,
thinking of nothing but the treachery of

the bloody ruffian stealing in upon the unprotected
girl, was close to him and my
fist smashed fair into his face afore he
could have known I was coming. I hadn't
my old strength, but the devil that was
put into me by the sight gave a power to
my blow that must have come pretty nigh to
the weight of a quarter hammer, and he
like a corpse, dragging the lady down with
him because she wouldn't let go. I pulled
her away, and found her in a dead faint, and
carried her to her cave and laid her down. I
then went back to Stimson and took his knife
away, and called to Michael Williams. He
arrived and I told him what had taken place.
He turned to and cursed a bit. asking why
Stimson wanted to meddle with the girl, and
whether our condition wasn't fearful enough
without fighting and slaughtering. I was
eased by his manner, for I guessed by it he
wasn't in Stimson's confidence — leastways, as
regarded his evil plans. Him and me carried
Stimson. whom we couldn't bring to. to his
cave. When I returned to Miss Fox I found
her still unconscious ; I wetted her head and
propped her up, and presently she spoke.

asking where she was. It was dark and she
couldn't see me, and I was afraid when her
mind came to her she'd take fright to find me
alongside of her; so I let fall her head and
stepped out, and standing outside I said, 'I'm
Archer, miss. You've got nothing to be
afraid of.' She returned me no answer, and
I hoped by her being quiet that she took
comfort from knowing I was about and
watching of her."

Miss Fox had shifted her posture and was
leaning with her back against the schooner's
side. She had brought some of her hair over
her left shoulder ; it appeared to rain like a
bright waterfall into her lap ; she twisted and
untwisted tresses of it, apparently listening,
but with languid eyes, to Archer. It was
obvious that she had little or no power of
sustained attention, in which respect she
resembled a young child. At first, when
Archer mentioned her name, her eyes would
brighten with intelligent interest, but by this
time the utterance of it found her listless.

Mr. Fortescue," continued Archer, in a
low, broken voice, " Stimson died that night.
We found him dead when the sun rose. If it

was my blow killed him, God Almighty will
forgive me, for He knows there was no feeling
of murder in my heart, only rage and the
resolution to drive him clear of the lady, and
to let him understand what to expect if he
meddled with her again." Fortescue was
about to speak. " I beg your pardon for
interrupting," exclaimed Archer, with a flush
that darkened the bronze upon his cheekbones
; " it rests betwixt the Lord and me,
sir. I don't wish any man to tell me whether
I did wrong or right. Praise or blame would
be unbearable to the feelings which come tome
when I think of that night. Let it be
called murder — manslaughter — justifiable killing,
I says this : If ever I should be in
the like situation and witness such another
attempt, and know that the blow I'd give
would kill the man — I'd strike! Mr. Fortescue,
capt'n, Mr. Stone — let me go on.
The man was found dead ; we stripped him
for his clothes, and not liking the idea of the
body remaining ashore to make the island at
night feel as if it was haunted, we dropped it
into the sea and the tide took it away."

He cast up his hands in a pathetic gesture,

as if he would at once and utterly banish this
incident from his own and his hearers' thoughts
and memory, and proceeded.

"It was when I went to the lady, after me
and Williams had finished, that I found she
had lost her memory. I couldn't understand
what had happened to her at first.
I thought the fright had drove her crazy,
for when I showed myself she looked at
me just as she looked at you, Mr. Fortescue,
as if she had never seen me afore.
That was so strange it startled me fearfully
! After questioning her, I began to
see how it was ; the incident had served
her mind as a wet sponge do a slate, all
characters writ upon it was wiped out.
Everything had to begin over again ; and
I tell ye, sir, that all the lady knows of me
is that my name is Archer, and that she
met me on the island. That I was bo'sun
aboard the Merula, that the ship was
burned, that we was fourteen days knocking
about in an open boat, and that we'd
been cast away many weeks upon that
island she no more recollects than she did
her struggle with that devil Stimson. She

didn't recollect it then, she don't recollect
it now ; the only thing she knows is what's
happened since, and even this she's but
half-acquainted with, as though one side
of her understanding was paralysed and
t'other half was feeble in consequence."

He glanced at her, whilst Stone heaved a
long, tremulous sigh that seemed to rise from
the very bottom of his soul.

"That, Mr. Fortescue, is all I'm capable
of explaining as regards her state of mind.
As to her health, I must tell ye, sir, 'twas a
downright miracle. Xo sooner was her
memory fair gone than she began to improve
; her face filled out, her figure growed
handsomer than ever I remember seeing it
aboard the Yerulam ; not being able to recall
what was past she was incapable of pining.
Nature turned to and had her way with her.
All the health of the island came into her ;
she'd grow kind of reckless and expose
herself to damp and be running about in a
tempest of rain, yet nothing hurt her ;
indeed, she had no imagination, wasn't able
to fancy that wet and the like was going to
injure her, and so it didn't. As she got

strong she became wonderful active ; her
delight lay in running and jumping ; I'd
watch her leaping and racing and bounding
from one point to another till the queerest
fancies 'ud come into my head, and I'd think
the island was enchanted and had the power
of turning people into spirits ; for in such
loneliness as mine a man'll think wildly, and
besides, there's always bin a notion among
seafaring men that persons like beautiful
women live in the sea and come ashore to
dance upon the sands of islands like that
there ; and if so be there are such females
there must be something to account for their
having existence, and seeing Miss Fox was
like explaining it to a man in such moods as
I'd fall into.

The losing of her memory through the
conduct of his mate was the cause, I think, of
Williams's feeling for her as he ought to
have done from the commencement, had he
been a true man. Anyway it was him as
proposed building the bit of a house ye found
her in, him saying that the cave was a fearfully
lonesome hole for a born lady to sleep
and live in ; and so between us we went to

work, both having knives, and by cutting
and hacking and weaving grass into sennit,
and so on, we managed to put together the
house ye found her in. Yet, though light as
the job might look, it took us all a month — I
can't say for sure ; we kept no reckoning of
time. When I recall the past, then, it's true
the nine months seems twice as long, and I
could easily believe we'd been on the island
two year ; yet I never supposed it came near
to nine months, and when ye gave me the
news 'twas a shock like to burst my heart.
Well, after the shanty was up, Williams
began to ail. He couldn't tell me what was
the matter with him : he didn't know. It
was his nervous system as gave way, I think;
and that tore down his constitution. He'd
imagine things ; come to me, for instance,
and say that last night he heard his mother
a-calling to him ; or he'd fancy he'd see
Stimson wading up out of the water, till he'd
go to meet him. and then the object 'ud disappear.
He likewise got troubling himself
about his soul and his future salvation, and
modern once he told me he believed he'd go
out of his mind ; but what was I to do ? It

was the tremendous solitude acting upon
him, and likewise the belief — but that was
as strong in me as in him — that we were on
an island never approached by ships, and
that consequently we were doomed to slowly
and miserably perish. Well, Mr. Fortescue,
to be short, one morning he was missing. I
never saw him again. He must have made
away with himself. I searched the island allover,
but he was gone ; and then I tell ye,
sir, then, captain — Mr. Stone — then it was I
felt what being cast away in the middle of a
great ocean was like. The lady not being
able to recollect and talk made the feeling
of lonesomeness crueller than had I been by
myself. I could not get her to understand
our condition. Indeed, I suppose to her —
everything being wiped out — 'twas like being
born on the island, for in a manner of speaking
her consciousness began with it and there was
nothing behind. It is in this way I account
for her thriving and the health she's got —
and it's my answer to your question about
it, sir." •

He ceased, wiping the palms of his
hands, a sure symptom of debility. Hiram

filled a glass with wine and handed it to
him.

"This deliverance," he continued, staring
eagerly about him, "is so much like a dream,
to happen after the prayers I've put up. the
dying out of the hopes in me, that I'm afraid
afraid of it ! It don't seem real. I feel as
if I shall wake up presently and find myself
in my cave, with the mouth of it like a
curtain of stars, as it used to seem at night. "

"It's real enough." said Hiram. " Look at
your clothes — look at the lady. Ay, and
look at me ! Ye couldn't dream of me. ye
know."

"' Xor of me," observed Stone, soothingly.

"Yet you dreamt of me, sir?" said Archer,
addressing the clergyman.

Fortescue started from the profound,
impassioned study he was making of his
darling's face.

"There is nothing more to tell?" he
inquired; gently.

"Nothing, sir; nothing that 'ud bear

telling. From the moment the lady and

me was alone till this morning, every dav

was alike — she improving, I falling away."
vol. 11. x

and with a smile full of sadness he spanned his
arm above his elbow.

"Oh, that will all come back,' said
Fortescue.

Ye found plenty of turtle ?" said Stone.

Plenty."

44 Ye didn't find it a island as was lacking'
in sustenance," said the old man, in a way
that let Hiram see that there was good
chance of his falling garrulous over the story
of his own shipwreck if he was not checked.

Bill," said the captain, "suppose you step
on deck, mate, and take a look round.
Archer's yarn's done, and I don't know,
seeing that no pertikler good's come of all
the reminders the tale was full of, that more
conversation on the subject is likely to be
agreeable to Mr. Fortescue."

"Mr. Archer," exclaimed the clergyman,
<l I wish you would lie down in one of these
bunks. You will be the better for a long
sleep."

I thank you, sir," answered the man,
touching his forehead.

Stone went on deck ; Hiram left the table;
Fortescue turned to the girl.

' Agatha, do you feel tired ? Would you
like to rest ?"

No," she answered, " I should like to run
about! My legs are cramped. This place is
so tiny."

I daresay she'll feel it, sir," said Archer.
It's wonderful she should have been still
so long. She was always on the move
in a kind of waltzing way."

Let me see what sort of hat I can
find for you, Agatha. By-and-bye we must
endeavour to comb and brush all this tangled
gold into the old silken beautiful tresses."

He touched the hair twined about her
fingers, smiling and speaking in a voice to
which his heart communicated an indescribable
sweetness and richness Oh ! it was
marvellous that there should have been no
magic in that thrilling utterance of half-reserved
adoration to penetrate to her
memory, no matter how deep down it lay
in the dark, unfathomed caves of her spiritual
nature. Yet his voice faltered at the close of
his words, and he went from her to his berth
suddenly. Even Archer, from this, could
see how stern was the discipline the curate

;o8 THE GOLDEN HOPE.

was imposing upon his emotions, and how
lacerating the struggles of the spirit, to
escape the iron hand upon it and vent itself.

END OF SECOND VOLUME.

TILLOTSON AND SON, PRINTERS, BOLTON.

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of ILLINOIS

VOL. Ill

A ROMANCE OF THE DEEP

BY

W. CLARK RUSSELL

Author OF

A SEA Queen," " THE WRECK OF THE GROSVENOR," "a SAILOR's SWEETHEART,

ETC., ETC.

I had a dream which was not all a dream"

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Ill

LONDON

HURST AND BLACKETT, Limited

13, GREAT Marlborough STREET



All Rights Reserved

CONTENTS

THE T H I R D \' O L U .M E

CHAPTER.

I.— THE TANGLED HAIR .

II.— THE DREAMER .

ell. -A STEAMER IS SIGHTED

IV. — THE SCHOONER IS Spoken

V. — A NEW PASSENGER

VI. — THE IJAIIV IS FED

VII. — THE BLINDNESS OE THE MIND

VIII. — STONE ADVISES

IX. — OVERBOARD

X-the BURIAL OF THE BABY

XI. — THE NEW DAWN .

XII-home ► . . . .



4S








22S


CHAPTER I .

THE TANGLED HAIR.

In purchasing an outfit of apparel, In the
conviction that he would find Agatha, Fortescue
had forgotten to include either bonnets
or hats ! The oversight seems strange, yet
it was not so strange as the perception he
had shown in his other purchases. What was
to be done ? He reflected a minute and then
recollected that he had a sealskin cap. He
fetched it and placed it on Agatha's head. It
fitted her well ; the rich stuff, by contrast, put
a ruddier fire Into the gold colour of her hair,
and the beauty of her face seemed perfected

VOL HL B

by It. There was a strip of looking-glass
upon the bulkhead near her cabin, and Fortescue,
bent on striving to penetrate her
memory by any sort of agent that offered,
asked her, while he pointed to the glass, to
tell him If she liked the cap. She looked and
smiled, blushing, and adjusted It to her taste.

It Is very pretty," she said, " but my hair
makes me appear dreadfully wild."

'' Do you know the person you are looking
at ?" he asked.

I am looking at myself.'^" she replied, In
an Interrogative manner, as though prepared
to be told she was mistaken.

And do you know who you are ?"

'' You have told me : I am Agatha Fox."

^'Andl?"

*' You are Mr. Fortescue."

"The Reverend Malcolm Fortescue, curate
of St. James's, Wyloe ; an Intimate friend of
the vicar, the Reverend Alfred Clayton, and
of your step-father, Dr. Joseph Clayton. My
darling, look In the glass as I pronounce
these names "

She Interrupted him. 'why do you call
me your darling ?''

'we were to have been married. Weare
still betrothed. If God suffers us to
reach England you will be my wife."

She stared at him. It was unquestionable
that she understood the meanings of
his words as words ; but as they were not
referable to any matter determinable by her
consciousness, their significance as a speech
was unintelligible to her. She dropped her
eyes with a sigh, and began to play with
her hair.

'* It'll seem disheartening work, sir," said
Archer, standing up against the bunk in
the bulkhead, waiting for Fortescue and
Agatha to go on deck before "turning in,"
^* but don't give up. It's trying as'll do it."

'* There's no fear of my giving up," said
the clergyman, quietly. "If I were of a
giving up nature I should not be here."

No, sir, nor the lady, nor me ; God
bless you I '

"There is one question I have forgotten
to ask you. Have you any idea in which
of the boats Miss Fox's step-father went .■^"

** You mean Dr. Clayton ? Xo, sir, I
cannot tell. There was tremendous confusion

at the last. All the ladies, I believe,,
were to have gone in the captain's boat, the
long-boat, I think. Perhaps Dr. Clayton
was in her, as he would expect Miss Fox
to be there. How she got into my boat I
don't know. I found her there, and myself
in charge. I understand from a man
forwards that only one of the boats had
been accounted for at the time of your
starting."

Only one — the boat that was in charge
of the third mate."

"Ha! it was a bad job — a bad job!"
exclaimed Archer.

I presume you never called the lady by
her name. She did not seem to know it
until I told her."

I don't suppose I did, sir. I can't
recollect. This side her memory I mayn't.
I always called her Miss. I'd speak of her
to the others as Miss Fox, but to her face as
Miss."

Fortescue took Agatha's hand and conducted
her on deck. It was about three
o'clock ; the sun stood in glory over the topgallant
yard-arm ; wool-white clouds trailed

in Steam-like wreaths along the hard blue
that paled and deepened under the brassy
glare, as if the trade-wind blew in azure folds,
rising and falling like the swell of the sea ;
all around was staring ocean running away in
burnished backs of golden splendour northwest
and coming up from the south-east,
blue, sweet, foam-edged, full of fountain-like
murmuring, and each near sea as it
arched, flung with its burden of spray a
touch of salt coolness into the wind. The
schooner was showing every inch of canvas
that would draw ; her tall tapering masts
swept their radiant cloths under the blue
sky to a regular swinging leaning that
timed the cadence of the little seas as a
conductor's baton would a solemn music.
The wake flashed fair north-east, and at
the extremity of it trembled a blotch of
greenish film — the island.

With her hair blowing about her, her eyes
on fire with the sparkling daylight, her lips
parted, her bosom heaving fast, Agatha
stood at the head of the companion-steps,
with her hand in Fortescue's as though
entranced. She glanced swiftly from one

object to another, from the shining decks ta
the canvas, from the windward running
ridges to the glory on the leeward sea, and
so on to right round the horizon, and then
exclaimed softly. " How beautiful ! You said
we are going home ?"

'' Yes. I said I had come to take yon
home. You remember that ?"

She nodded, looking about her with eager,
fascinated eyes. Ke led her to the taffrail.
Old Breeches was at the tiller, and she gave
him a nod and a smile, to which he responded
with a drag at a coil of hair upon his
forehead. This recognition was one of the
most pronounced illustrations o^ the phenomenal
condition of her mind that had yet
occurred. It was perfectly certain the faculty
of memory could not be dead in her, for she
recollected the old seaman the moment she
saw him. Why. then, should its powers be
limited to this side of the curtain that had
fallen ? Why, behind the veil, should it be
blind and deaf and mute ?

Do you see that little spot — that little
shadow yonder .'*" the curate exclaimed, points

Plainly."

'' It is the island we are carrying you away
from, where you have been solitary, and
hopeless, and unheeded, save by the eye of
Almighty God, for nine months, Agatha.
For nine months, my precious one. Can
you realise that time?" He looked at her
clasping her hair with her right hand to
prevent it from blowing across her face, at
her delicately-carven, most beautiful profile,
cameo-like against the blue, at the searching
grey eyes softened into tenderness inexpressible
by the shadowing of the lashes, at her
figure full of the free and floating grace of
some wild bird that alights on a swaying
branch and poises itself a moment ere folding
its wings. Great God ! with what passion
did his heart yearn towards her then, for the
encounter of her eyes, and for the light of
her knowledge of him in them I But instead
of answering him she whispered to herself,
and then breaking from whatever fancies
were in her, she released her hand and ran
to the corn-pass, and like a child stood looking
into it with a smiling face. Thence, all about
the deck, her lover following her and the

men furtively watching her. If ever there
was music in movement it was in the floating,
buoyant measures of her gait. Archer came
very near to the truth when he described it
as a waltzing motion. She went right into
the bows, and catching sight of the golden
figure-head, leaned over the rail with a backward
glance at Fortescue to join her ; and ashe
looked with her, firmly grasping her hand
and listening to her as she pointed to the
reflection of the gilded angel in every lucent
blue hollow ere the sliding stem crushed a
boiling whiteness over it, and as she turned
with delighted exclamations to survey the
heights of canvas impelling the sharp bows
shearing through the billows, he wondered if
this new birth of hers, this emergence of fresh
intellectual life out of the blankness that had
been wrought in her by misery and fiendish
insult, was not an illustration of the birth of
the soul through the dissolution of the body,
was not identical with the new existence of
the spirit after death.

It might have been the spirit of freedom
that had come to her as a gift from the island
jn replacement of the priceless faculty that

was suspended or partially destroyed, which
caused her to detain Fortescue for a long
while in the bows, whilst with sparkling eyes
and swiftly-moving bosom, and a sympathetic
movement of her admirable figure, she
watched the graceful dance of the surge, the
winged leap of the schooner, the burst of
many-coloured lustre in the heart of the
smoking spray as the fierce slide of the cutwater
hurled the snow to the bathed and
sent it seething to the sun. At last he
induced her to walk aft with him, and the
little awning being spread, he placed a chair
for her under it.

Old Stone stumped the deck to windward,
feigning to see nothing but the weather and
the schooner ; Breeches at the tiller steered
doggedly, leisurely gnawing upon a piece of
tobacco in his cheek, so that by the motion
of his jaws he appeared to be grumbling
mutinously to himself; a couple of men
stitched upon a sail in the waist ; another
was in the foregoing busy with a ratline
or two ; the cook went in and out of the
caboose and talked to the boy Johnny, who
was washing dishes in a bucket to leeward ;

the smudge of island had vanished, the 
ran round clear and clean as glass, and
the warm wind poured its steady strain into
the leaning hollows of the canvas. For a
moment or so a profound sense of unreality
oppressed Fortescue. He looked at Agatha
seated beside him, he looked round the
mighty sea, at the place where the island
had vanished, that island which had engrossed
his thoughts, apprehensions, hopes,
for months and months, which had come and
now was gone, he looked at the schooner
sailing along with the same infinite ocean-distance
under her jibbooms that had been
there ever since the English coast had been
lost sight of, at the men quietly going on
with their work with the astonishing experience
of the day already fitting easily
upon their moods, after the true fashion of
sailors, in whom amazement is but a weakly
emotion, thanks to the endless wonders the
mariner encounters ; and then, thinking of
his dream, how it had been realised, how
compassionately true had been the pointing
of the visionary Finger, how now there sat
beside him, within reach of hand and lip, the

girl he adored, whom he had sometimes
imagined lost to him for ever, whom he
had parted with In sickness and had found
in physical health, and beautiful with a
beauty that was like a spirit in her — a sort
of numbness seized his brain, nothing seemed
conceivable but the sense of the unreality
that possessed him.

But the strange, distracting, dangerous
sensation passed, yet not until it had bathed
his brow with sweat and ran tremor after
tremor, as of ague, through his body.

'agatha," he exclaimed, gently, after giving
himself a little time, "do you never feel as if
there is something missing, something behind
all that has happened upon the island, all you
remember that has happened ?"

What Is missing ?" she asked.

Cannot you conceive that you lived before
you were wrecked upon the island, and that
many more things must have happened then
than since ?"

I cannot remember," she answered. '' I
have no memory, I know that. It hurts me
when I think. A pain comes here," touching
her forehead, "a pain like a weight."

Do you remember the Merula ?"

'' No."

Do you remember the long, long days
you spent In the open boat ?"

''No."

*' Have you no recollection of the boat
being tossed over in the surf, and you and
Archer struggling to the land ?"

She shook her head whilst she shaded
her eyes with her hand and hung her
face.

'' Do you remember Archer and Williams
building the little house of trees and leaves I
found you in ?"

She looked up quickly and answered,
'eyes." He saw that she was crying; her
tears struck him to the soul.

"My own, my darling!" he murmured,
smoothing her hand with touching gestures
of endearment. "It will come, it will come!
The mercy I implore will be vouchsafed. I
must have patience. It is my heart-sickness
for one look of recognition from you that

makes me cruel in my anxiety " He

ceased, observing her to smile through her
tears, yet with a smile that gave him to see if

he were speaking to a child three years old
he could not be less understood.

Yet one point he noticed through the
questions he had put to her : that any effort
that forced her to think back into the darkness
of the past produced actual pain — a
sense of weight and aching over the brows.
He felt it was an early hint to him he must
bear in mind, otherwise how was he to guess
what mischief might be wrought to her brain
by compelling such intellectual powers as
were left to worry and work upon the faculty
that had been weakened, numbed, paralysed
call its condition what you will. So for
half-an-hour he sat lightly talking to her, just
quietly observing in her such differing
manners as she exhibited whilst she listened,
or answered, or addressed him.

Taking up a tress of her hair, he said
** Agatha, you used to wear this wreathed
upon your head like a crown. Can all these
tangles be brushed out of it ? I will try, if
you will let me."

'* I tried myself; it will be hard to smooth
it. You can try, but you will have to be
patient. See how full of knots it is." She

thrust her fingers through it to let him
observe she could not comb them down an
inch. The heave of the schooner would
bring the brightness on the sea flowing off
the waters in a gush under the awning, and
at such times her hair, fluffy with innumerable
single hairs curling out of the dense
mass, flashed like a surface of spangles and
shed a light around her head that was as a
frame for her sun-touched beauty.

Stone, pacing to windward, took a squint
at her now and again out of the corners of
his eyes. When they went below the old
fellow said to Breeches, '' Bill, did you ever
see hair like that afore ?"

'well, I dunno as ever I did."
Did ye ever see a finer figure afore ?"
'well, I'll not say 'yes' to that, neither!
But it's a sorter fineness more relishable in
daylight than when the moon's a-shining. I
don't mind owning to it, if I'd ha' bin sent to
that there island, and she'd ha come leaping
along to me with that dancing walk of hers,
smite me if I don't think I'd 'a shoved off and
lay-stew for consideration. Any man can see
what it's all about now; but to come upon the

likes of her, fresh — with such hair blown'
loose over her and — and — well, give me what
you may call common appearances in females
ordinary attractions, such as'll fit with
plain furniture and make a man feel home's
home."

*' Well, I'm rather sorry to hear ye talking'
like that," said Stone. '' There's no harm
done, so far as I'm concerned, but your's
are sentiments which ye're likely to rap outwith
ashore, an' it's just these here vulgar
notions which are helping to bring sailors
into scorn among landsmen. What d'ye
want with common appearances ? Why
should ye choose ordinary attractions? Ain't
sailors good enough for female beauty, that
they should make out they aren't by affection'
a love for ugliness ? Don't talk to me, Bill,
about women as'll fit with plain furniture. As
an old sailor I'm for possessing what's most
beautiful an' desiring' of it for all my mates.
Let such notions as yours be thought the
feeling' of all sailors an' we'd never get a really
nice-looking gal to look at a nautical man."

It was evident Breeches was rehearsing
some warm answer from the energetic manner

in which he mumbled his quid ; but fortunately,
perhaps for both old fellows, a hot
discussion was cut short by the arrival of
Hiram on deck.

In the cabin, Fortescue combing Agatha's
hair would have promised a wonderful study
to anyone looking on a minute or two ;
though much longer would it have needed to
witness the truth in the girl's quietness, the
passive clasp of her hands on her lap, the
listless steadfastness of the gaze that seemed
neither to see nor to heed anything. Yet,
one would have been detained were it but for
the sake of her tranquil beauty, the shining
of her hair in the hands of her lover, his
gestures of tenderness, his side-long glances
at her, the radiance of passion that would
come floating into his large dark eyes,
replacing other expressions such as, particularly,
the craving of anxiety. The westering
sunshine broke in beams through the swaying
skylight, and went slipping like molten gold
along bulkhead and deck-lioor ; the atmosphere
trembled with the azure wind gushing
with sounds as of distant music in it down
through the lifted frames ; the splashing falls

of water over the side filled the ear with a
sense of refreshment. The beautiful hair
was wildly tangled indeed, yet it was bound
to yield to such gentle, loving, but resolute
handling as his. The touch of it ! The
light upon it ! Why, since it is known how
a little lock of the hair of the dead will move
the mourner, it is not hard to conceive what
sort of feelings came to the young clergyman
with the length of beaming tress he lifted — -
the love unspeakable, the deep thanksgiving
to Almighty God for the guidance that had
brought this issue to pass ; yet both love and
gratitude interpenetrated by a sentiment of
secret consternation at the thought of the
blind, lustreless memory into whose darkness
he could peer without beholding the reflection
of the barest shadow of himself! So well ashe
had been beloved too ! Never had a
girl's heart been more wholly her lover s than
Agatha's. The ocean they had both loved,
whose spirit, hand in hand, they had often
sought to interpret, sitting or softly moving
upon the shore, when the summer afternoon
blazed over the flashing mirror, or
when the moonlight rippled in the expanse
VOL. in. c

of silver dusk, how had it served them ?
Dissevering them — filling the long interval
with anguish — uniting them again, but in
such wise that the poet's dream of death
in life seemed realised in the beauty of
the rescued girl, soulless in that past where
love was !

Well, it was inevitable that a hundred
such thoughts should pass through his mind,
as for an hour he stood combing her thick
hair into lengths of tresses, sometimes addressing
her and obtaining rational and
gentle, drowsy answers. At last his hand
ached, he could do no more, but he had
done much, the task was a practicable one,
and, by persevering, the tangled mass was
to be disciplined into its old rich auburn
silkiness. She had evidently found a
pleasure in the caressing motion of his
hands. When he dropped his task she
stood up, brought the hair he had smoothed
over her shoulder, and passing her fingers
through the silky golden length, smiled
with the happiness of a child.

*' It is so much prettier thus," she
exclaimed, looking at it. *' It will be so

much more comfortable, too. But the
combing of it all will take a long time."

•* We have plenty of time'' he answered.

She gazed at him as though she would
thank him ; but if that were her intention
another thought or mood stole over and
eclipsed it. Once again he noticed the
slow wrinkling of her brows to a passage
of bewilderment, which merely deepened to
his own fixed regard, till the lifting of her
hand to her forehead caused him to drop
his eyes.

It was now tea-time. As she entered her
berth Johnny arrived with the meal, and
Archer turned out of his bunk. He saluted
the clergyman and said, '' I feel the better
for that sleep, sir. But how a man dreams !
I repose it was telling you my story that
made me live all through that island job
again. It's puzzling, it's puzzling though," he
exclaimed, rubbing his eyes. 'when misfortunes
comes to a man he thinks it's fancy
till he grows used to it, and when he is out of
troubles his release seems as much fancy as
his misfortune was."

*' Av, and in mv case, Archer, the wonder

In all that's happened since I parted with
Miss Fox in the Downs ! The discovery of
the island ! You, now, as you stand there
looking at me ! All seems so visionary that
I could easily persuade myself I dreamt,
were it not for the grief her condition causes
me. That is too real for imagination ! Tell
me, from the hour in which you discovered
that she lost her memory, did you ever detect
the least passing capacity in her to recall
incidents of her life before her recollection
went ?"

'' No, sir," Archer answered, thoughtfully.
I tried her a many times, but found it was
like asking a person to peer Into a dense fog
and say what was visible in It."

"You were very good to her. Archer;
most nobly humane and loyal," exclaimed
Fortescue, In a trembling voice.

'' Sir," said the man, in a subdued, solemn
way, "the good God who was with her and
me on that Island, and who brought your
honour to the rescue — He knows that If she'd
been my daughter I could not have done
more — acted otherwise than I did. I say It,
because I want ye to know the truth, to feel

the whole length of it along down to the ver)^
deepest it goes ; that is. to understand that
Miss Fox comes to ye as she left you —
san' this I says, speaking from my heart to
God !"

His words did not need the almost sublime
confirmation they found in the sheer English
honesty of the earnest, rough, haggard, sailorly
face. Once more Fortescue grasped his hand
and held it in both his. Hiram came into
the cabin.

**\Vell, Mr. Fortescue," he exclaimed, "an'
how have ye managed with the lady's hair,
-sir .-^

"Very well. It needs time, but I shall
manage."

I shall be happy to take a spell at the
combien' whenever you requires relieving,"
said Hiram. "It don't ask, I suppose,
for a more delight hand than's wanted for
unlayin' yarns for foxes or nettles for
pointing ?"

Fortescue thanked him. and said he had
no doubt he should be able to finish the
combing without assistance. Archer was
going.

You'll Stop and drink tea with us
here ?" said the clergyman.

I'd rather not, thanking you all the
same, sir. I'd sooner join the men in the
fo'ksle. You'll put me in a watch, capon,
I hope, and start me along with the crew.
Don't reckon you'll find me much of a
Dutchman, sir."

Hiram gave one of his neigh-like laughs.
*'Bo'sun of a H'indieman like the Merula
a Dutchman ! Not yet, I hope, mister.
The surrenders is a-gatherin', and the British
ensign might be the Royal Standard flying
atop of the Tower o' Babel for the thundering'
number of tongues as are spoke under it.
But the service ain't altogether rotten yet.
There's some parts free o' maggots, and I
allow the Merula was on the sweet-smelling'

side of the cheese. Well, Archer what's

your t'other name by the way ?"

^' Henry."

"Well, then, Henry, subject to Mr. Fortescue's
approval, what I says to you is,
you can play or you can work ; you can
be man or you can be passenger ; you can
be put on the articles or you can sling a

hammock and do notion but smoke in it.
You've had nine months of a lonely island,
and after such a spell of waiting' as that, why,
if you ain't entitled to do jest whatever you
best please, then let the world tarn to and
call shipwreck a light diversion."

I thank you, captain," said Archer, "but
I'd rather do my bit, sir."

It was plain he felt he would be more
comfortable among the men and working
as a 'hand," than living in the cabin and
idling, and seeing this, Fortescue did not
attempt to persuade him ; so with a flourish
of his hand to his forehead the poor fellow
took his leave and went forward.

'ran honest man, that, sir," said Hiram.

"He is, and it is another proof of God's
goodness that he should be so, Captain
Weeks ; for think — had he been like the

ruffian he struck down " Fortescue

shuddered violently. " What dreadful misery
the sea heaps upon those whom it fixes on
for its victims!" he continued. "Could one
imagine such an experience to befall any
lady on shore as to be boxed up for nine
months with rouQ^h fellows — seamen — a class

of beings reckless at the best, but In suffering
often brutally and savagely heedless."

'' Not all," observed Weeks, mildly.

'' No, God forbid, not all," exclaimed Fortescue.


'' Not nearly all," said Weeks, still mildly.

'well, not nearly all," remarked the
clergyman.

I'm not a man," said Hiram, "to say a
good word for them that's bad in my calling'.
Indeed, I'm rather in favour of hanging' of
em than excusing' of 'em — tho' I tell ye what,
sir, there's more excuses to be found for a
bad sailor than there is for a bad landsman ;
and that I'd volunteer to prove at Exeter
Hall in the presence of any number of pious
noblemen, gentlemen, and ladies, if they'd
take the trouble to listen. But when ye
come across a good man that's a sailor;
there's so much virtue in him that he carries
cargoes of principles in him enough for a
dozen. So what I says is, one good sailor's
good enough to make a man willing to overlook
the evil in a score of his mates —-jest as
ye taste a little dab of salt in a saucepans of
vittles. There ain't a bad word I'm acquainted

with forcible enough to fit that chap
Stimson ; yet how many Soissons do a manlike
Archer compensate the service for ?"

He was interrupted by Agatha coming out
of her berth. She came at once with a smile
to Fortescue and said, " That is a wonderful
box in my cabin. Everything I want is in it.
I could not imagine how I should do up the
hair you had combed out so that it should
not mingle with the rest and become entangled
again. I thought — and thought —
and looked into the box and found what I
should never have been able to ask for — a
packet of hair-pins ! Xow see how I have
managed," and turning her back upon her
lover she let him observe that she had coiled
the smooth tresses on her head, leaving the
knotted mass still flowing down her shoulders.

Ay, that will keep the tresses clear, and
tomorrow we will have it all fairly combed
out," exclaimed Fortescue, noticing, with a sudden
transport of hope and delight, her manner
of approaching him, her ease in addressing
him, and, above all, the coherence and the
rationality and the hesitancy of her speech.

She asked for Archer ; the clergyman said

that at his own desire he had gone forward to-take
up his abode with the men.

He is a sailor by profession," she said.
''He told me he was the boatswain of the
Merula, an Indiaman that was burnt. I was
on board of her, he has assured me, when the
flames broke out, but," she added, with a
singular touch of faint pettishness in her
manner as she gazed with a soft glance that
waned into listlessness even as Fortescue
watched her, " he used to talk as if he knew
me before I was born — or when I was somebody
else. He made my head ache ; but he
was very, very kind, so gentle and thoughtful
" ; her voice died away though her lips

moved for some moments afterwards.

I beg your pardon, ma'am," exclaimed
Hiram, who had been staring at her with
protruding eyes full of admiration and wonder
and curiosity, 'but might I make so bold as
to ask if the idea of them there 'virgins you
was a-tellin' Mr. Fortescue about, occurred to
ye afore ye turned to and marched for them ?
For," added he, in a low voice, and in an
aside to the clergyman, with an expression of
countenance indicative of the most amiable

willingness to assist in any way in restoring
her memory, "if it did, it'll show recollection's
a-breaking out."

The girl stared at him without answering,
clearly not in the least comprehending him.

I find it unwise to tax Miss Fox's
memory at present," Mr. Fortescue said, in
his kindest manner, and then he changed the
subject by asking questions about the course,
the speed, the time likely to be occupied in
rounding the Cape, and so on.

They went on deck after the meal, and as
the evening closed in upon them the sky
became a dome of blazing gold, save in the
furthest west where there lay a lagoon-like
expanse of faint and tender green. The few
clouds held the western flashing fair upon
their brows as they looked sideways at the
sinking luminary whilst they floated into the
north-west ; they seemed to echo the light
on high, to reverberate the flying glory. The
schooner was alone, the only object in the
liquid circle that girdled an ocean like a
heaving, glittering field of golden cloth ; her
rigging had the burnished appearance of
brass wire, her sails rose yellow, and

gleaming over her, from truck to water-mark,
the irradiation hung Hke a film, and you
would have said she was sailing in an
auriferous atmosphere of her own. Forward,
the hands were assembled in a little crowd,
listening to Archer who, seated on the
windlass-end, talked with a sooty pipe
between his teeth and his arms folded ; aft,
the helm was grasped by James Kitt, who
sent many a yearning glance from the
binnacle to his mates on the forecastle, whilst
Hiram patrolled the weather deck ; Stone,
pipe in mouth, overhung the lee rail full of
thought, and Fortescue and Agatha sat together
gazing at the evening magnificence,
and sometimes speaking.

But the old response was gone ! She
looked as with new eyes at the visionary,
fading splendour, at the gathering of the
stars, at the noble and majestic appearance
of the sky when every orb had kindled its
fires of rose, or diamond, or blue in it. There
was a time when she would have witnessed a
poem in whatever her eye rested on, and
found a melody for it by her expression of
the meaning she beheld. Now — why, when

the night had descended dark and luminous,
with yellow glittering in the sea-like mirror-kings
of the passage and breaking of the
meteors under the stars, he discovered no
chord in her to answer to a touch he might
have deemed sure, for to his reference of her
sense of the overwhelming mystery and loneliness
of the night upon the island, with its
appalling environment of leagues of ocean,
she made no reply ; she did not comprehend
him ; he held her hand, but his words
put no such thrill in it as must have caused
it to tremble had she grasped his meaning,
and looked back and remembered the horror,
the feeling of desolation, the dreadful, heartbreaking
hopelessness that would possess her
night after night when she stood alone, gazing
seawards into the ebony distance, hearkening
to the sullen booming of the surf on the
windward side and the complaining of the
wind among the bushes and the cocoa-nut
trees. But all this was before her memory
went. Since then, as he would perceive,
dav and nio^ht were but the familiar conditions
of her new intellectual birth, features
of her island-life which could breed no emotion

In her because from the blackness of the
past no associations could come to inform
them with impulses not their own.

Before two bells — nine o'clock —-had been
struck she said she was sleepy.

*' I always went to the house Archer built
for me and lay down soon after the sun had
set," she exclaimed.

He led her below, and entering her berth
saw that all was prepared for her, then
returned and took her hand. He would
have taken her to his heart and kissed
her, but dared not for fear of frightening
her.

"God bless thee, my Agatha! My precious
one !"

She smiled, coloured, drew her hand away,
said, "Good night, Mr. Fortescue," and
entered her berth, but in an instant or two
after reappeared, holding her hand to her
forehead.

I want to think," she said.

Of what? Tell me; I will think for you,"
he exclaimed.

There was a long silence. "It is gone!"
she cried. "It was — it was " she shook

her head, the tears gushed into her eyes,
she turned abruptly from her lover and closed
the door of her berth upon herself.

THE DREAMER.

It was the first watch, and Stone had charge
of it. Young Joe Hall held the tiller. The
mate, observing Mr. Fortescue coming along
to leeward, crossed the deck to see who it
was.

'why, sir, is it you? I thought you had
turned in," he exclaimed.

'' No, I have been alone on the forecastle
for the last hour. This day has been fruitful,
Mr. Stone — it has left me much to think of."

They came to the weather deck and began
to walk.

"Yes, sir, it has been fruitful, as you say.
I dunno that you could have used a better
word — fruitful's the tarn. There's much not
only to think of but to be thankful for. The
voyage has answered its object. We've
found and saved the lady, and another's life

besides. It's been right all round — your
vision, sir ; my calculations of the island ;
Hiram's navigation. It's been a marvellous
bit of h'orderin', sir ; everything so dove-sailing
— you a-dreaming, me a-coming across
your advertisement and knowing the island,
Hiram steering straight for it, the lady alive
and healthy, and an honest seaman left to
look after her. Why, what I says is, such a
fitting of extraordinary circumstances, such
a-combining of curiosity events, proves that
the Creator's been in it, and that it's Him as
has brought it all about. If that there notion
don't go along with it, it'll be a yarn no un'll
believe."

At all events, we know it's real," said
the clergyman, gently; 'rand to-day gives
us faith in one another's sanity. It was not
so before, I think. There was some mistrust,
but the truth is now known, and how grateful
I feel towards you, Mr. Stone, for your noble
sincerity, for your sailorly sympathy "

The old fellow interrupted : '' Don't thank
me, sir ; we've all done our bit — mine's notion
worth noticing. There's no doubt Hiram
got to think me inventive, as if I'd fancied

VOL. III. D

myself cast away and Imagined the island,
and believed in It as gospel through mere
keeping' all on repeating' of it. But that's past.
Next job's the lady. She'll get her memory
yet ; I do believe it, sir."

Mr. Fortescue was silent.

'* It's perhaps a pity," continued Stone,
'that ye didn't bring your uniform along
with you — I mean the clergyman's garments
as may be she was used to seeing you In. If

you was to put them on perhaps she'd know

I"
you !

*' No," said Mr. Fortescue, thoughtfully,
*'ifshe does not know me by my face she
would not know me by my professional
dress."

*' Well, perhaps so, sir ; but it's putting a
lot of things together as makes a likeness.
Take a familiar member o' royalty and see
him stripped to his drawers — no cocked hat
on, no orders, no uniform ; notion but
drawers. Ye would not believe it possible,
Mr. Fortescue! After the likeness of him,
you'd look an' say, ' No, that ain't the royalty
what hangs in the winders.' "

The clergyman laughed, which encouraged

Stone in his garrulity, for the old fellow
dearly loved a talk ; besides, it was a long
stretch of watching, from eight to midnight,
with nothing to do but nod at the stars.

"It was only the other day, sir, that you
was speaking' to me about Miss Fox's health,
wondering', if you found her at all, how she'd
have worn. That speculation's ended, sir ;
but it's the queerest part of the whole supernatural
business. She leaves England ill,
she gets cast away upon an island, and after
nine months ye find her healthier than ever
she was, and the picture of beauty, as the
saying' is."

'' Archer's explanation I believe to be the
true one," answered Mr. Fortescue, " and it
shows him possessed of a very great deal of
sagacity and intelligence to hit upon it. The
state of one's health is greatly dependent
upon the mind. Half the pains, sicknesses,
aches of this life, come through persons
dwelling upon themselves. Whilst Miss
Fox's memory was sound she fretted incessantly
and wasted away, as Archer told us.
But when her memory went her grief disappeared,
nothing lingered for her heart to

sadden over ; she looked forth upon a new
life — an existence without regrets, without
bereavements, without remembrances ; upon a
universe of ocean and sky, from whose
enriching qualities of sunshine and breeze
she would receive the same conical spirit that
gave beauty and colour and fertility to the
green growths of the island — her little world !^
It is as Archer suggested ; between her and
health, between her youth and nature, there
stood nothing when her memory went. "Ah!"
he cried, clasping his hands convulsively, '* I
could believe it was for the best, as have
been all things, did I dare hope her memory
would come back to her."

'' For my part," said Stone, keeping pace
with a deep-sea roll to Mr. Fortescue's
strides, " I don't see how it can be helping
of it. The look-out 'ud be a bad 'un, I
essay, if her recollection was clean gone ; if
she couldn't remember ^^what she'd say a
moment after saying' of it ; if she wasn't to be
trusted to tarn in by herself or to be alone in
her berth ; but when ye see her heating in
such a way that if a man didn't know her
memory stopped dead short a few months

past-why! Gracious mussy, Mr. Fortescue,

here she is, sir ! Lord, the turn she's
given 'me !"

He was close to the companion-hatch as
she rose slowly out of it. and so startling was
the effect of her unexpected apparition upon
him that he recoiled by several steps with a
grip of the arm of his companion that
dragged the clergyman with him. The
moon had risen to add a little brilliancy to
the soft and sifting effulgence of the stars.
The white decks, the white canvas, helped
the sheen, and, as Agatha stepped off the
companion-ladder, disclosing her whole figure,
Mr. Fortescue could see she had robed herself
in the gown she had been wearing during
the day, but her feet were bare and her head
uncovered. The clergyman was about to
spring forward, but something in her manner
struck him ; he trembled violently to the
sudden curbing of his emotions and to the
suspicion that had flashed upon him.

'hush!" he whispered to Stone, raising
his hand.

The girl advanced by two or three paces
towards the helm, halted and inclined her

face to left and right several times, as though
seeking some object out upon the sea. Mn
Fortescue stole to her side and looked at her.
Her eyes were wide open, and even in that
faint light he could witness so much vitality
in her face that ere he could satisfy himself
that she was actually walking in her sleep
he found it necessary to stand right in front
of her that the slumberous blindness of her
staring eyes might be proved. Being satisfied,
he crept back to Stone and said, in a whisper,
'' She is walking in her sleep."

Ha !" exclaimed the old fellow, pulling off
his cap and wiping his forehead, but speaking
in a tone that showed his courage had
returned to him. " She mustn't be woke,
sir — best to let that there trick have its
way, I've always heard."

But her feet are bare, Mr. Stone — she is
insufficiently clothed — the dew is heavy," said
Mr. Fortescue, brokenly, in a torment of uncertainty
of purpose.

She'll not hurt, sir ; consider how she's
been exposed, how used she is to it, and how
a special providence watches over sleep-walking,"
said Stone. " For the Lord's sake

don't wake her; the fright might do her cruel
harm."

'see, she is moving again! Be by my
side, Mr. Stone ! I may lose my nerve if I
should have to act suddenly."

She went to the taftrail, Mr. Fortescue
and Stone following within grasp of her.
The man, Joe Hall, at the helm, judging
how it was with her by the behaviour of the
curate and the mate, slipped like lightning to
the other side of the tiller that it might be
between him and her, and then stood transfixed,
staring at her till his dilated eves
looked like white blots upon his shadowed
face. God knows how it was, but even to
her lover, her blind, unknowing, unconscious
presence put an element of wild mystery into
the beauty of the night. The singing of the
wind in the rigging came down with a
hollower note of complaint ; there was a
sound of sobbing in the plashing of the water
alongside ; it seemed to him that the very
stars beyond her, over the sea-line, dimmed
their sparkles into a sober wanness, and that
the dark shadow of the wide deep grew
spectral through the mere sense of the

sharper chill the wind swept off its glooming
heart.

She stood for at least a minute at the taffrail
with her hands folded, apparently gazing
into the distant gloom over the stern.

*' What has caused this ?" muttered the
clergyman to Stone. '' It can be no habit
of hers. Archer would have mentioned it,
for he was sure to have detected it."

It may be the excitement of the day,"
said Stone, hoarsely.

"Ay, some inward perturbation mastering
her — perhaps memory, her imprisoned
memory, acting upon what , when she is
awake, keeps it bound down and paralysed,
but which, being weakened by sleep, yields
to the struggling faculty. Great heavens !
How wonderful is the human spirit! It
was the deep agitation produced by my
vision that caused me to walk in my sleep.
I had never done so before — have never
done so since. Poor girl — my own beloved !
Oh ! it must be as you say, Mr. Stone — the
excitement of the day acting upon her through
the memory that lives when she sleeps !"

He yearned to clasp her, to gather her to

the warmth of his arms and his heart. It
was unbearable to see her standing barefooted,
bareheaded — so lonely, so lonely as
she looked, abstracted from all things by
sleep, the brother of death, more startling
even than death In this blank, mocklno^,
almost unmeaning trick of it.

She sighed deeply and turned; they stepped
away and she passed them. She now began
to pace the deck from the taffrail to a little
before the mainmast, walking slowly and with
a singular regularity of gait, her hands hanging
idly by her side, her head bowed as
though she gazed fixedly down, her attitude
that of one profoundly engrossed by thought.
They followed her close for fear of some
impulse seizing her, some behaviour that
would demand instant checking. It was a
time and a sight to make a bold man hold his
breath and yet feel quit of cowardice too.
Every circumstance heightened in dramatic
intensity this act of somnambulism. The
masses of the girl's rough hair streamed
meteor-like down her back, or were shaken by
the breeze ; the velvet tread of her naked feet
gave her movements the gliding character

the superstitious mind loves to believe
peculiar to the motions of spectres and apparitions
; her face was like a star in the luminous
gloom, but, to Mr. Fortescue's gaze, with the
wonder of death-incline in it, owing to its
immobility and to the mockery of the sightless
eyes counterfeiting the intent regard of
wrapt sensibility. . Softly to and fro, close
behind her, the clergyman and Stone followed ;
the wind swept a hundred sounds of crying
voices through the rigging, the schooner
leaned under the weight in her canvas, and
the white water swept past into a long wake
giddy with dim green glittering.

Presently Agatha stopped, looked again as
before from right to left, from left to right,
and then going to the lee rail put her hands
upon it and so stood, seemingly gazing over
the bulwarks at the junction of sea and sky
that was definable only by the banishment of
the stars where the ocean was. Stone, at a
gesture from Mr. Fortescue, posted himself
close on her left, the clergyman on her right.
Thus guarded from herself she was safe.
After a little she began to speak.

Malcolm !" she exclaimed, distinct, and



in a voice of fretful misery, "do you never
mean to seek me ? I think of you day and
night, day and night ! Have you forgotten
me ? You loved me deeply — I know you did.
Remember, dearest, your words to me when
you said farewell on the V^erulam. Am I sa
far away that you will not seek me ? Were
the grave between us I would pray for death
that I might join you. Oh ! Malcolm, it is
hard to be left to this fearful solitude — this
dreadful loneliness I Hush! the sound of the
surf is like a perpetual cursing of me by the
ocean. Malcolm ! Malcolm ! do you never
mean to seek me .^"

Her voice to this rose shrill, and she
clasped her hands and lifted her face.

'answer her, sir," muttered Stone, behind
his hand ; " there's memory here."

'' I am coming, I have come, Agatha'*
said Mr. Fortescue, instantly grasping the
old man's idea, yet starting at the sound of
his own voice and trembling under the
emotion of awe her speech and his answering
her filled him with.

But you are still far away — at Wvloe.
You are standing in the porch of the church,

looking at me — thinking of me ! Oh, come —
come to me !" She flung forth her arms in
the exact posture of entreaty he had seen her
assume in his vision.

Keep her to her memory, sir ; work at
it! It may produce what's a-missin','' said
Stone, again behind his hand, in a whisper
hoarse with excitement.

She was dreaming ; her lover saw that.
He was visible to her soul's eye, and her soul
was addressing him. That memory was not
dead in her would be proved if it could be
seen that it operated like an active principle
in her when intellectual vitality was purely
spiritual in its conditions. Her lover felt the
need of farther testing this, but awe rendered
the obligation hard, and the deep tenderness
of his human love felt upon it the chill
of that preternatural converse, as though,
addressing one that was dead, he found
himself answered.

'' Come to me !" she repeated, in a fainter
voice, bringing: her hands to her bosom and
clasping them.

*' Do not you hear me tell you I am
coming, my own ?" he said.



'eyes, I hear you," she replied, gazing
straight out to sea.

Where are you ?"

'' On an island — in the Indian Ocean —
alone with a seaman. Oh, God ! how many
months have I passed in this dreadful solitude
? Come to me, come to me !"

'' I am coming, I am coming, my beloved 1
But, Agatha, why is it that you are on the
island ?"

The Merula was burnt at sea ; many of
us were crowded into one boat ; we sickened
of thirst and hunger, and several men died ;
till this island arose, and then we were
dashed by the surf upon it !"

''Gr-eat mercy!" whispered Stone behind
his hand, "think o' that! If her memory
was a bell it couldn't be sounder."

She slightly inclined her head as if listening
; in every syllable that fell from her lips
there was a singular thrilling sound like the
vibration in a bar of silver after it has been
struck ; meanwhile she kept her face steadfastly
directed seawards, so that the impression
conveyed by this fixed posture to Mr. Fortescue
and the mate was that she actually

beheld him she was answering upon the
darkness there, God alone knows how far off.

Is Dr. Clayton with you ?"

No — we were separated by the crowds
rushing to the boats."

*' Will you be glad to see me, my own ?"

*'Oh, my darling, come to me, come tome
!" she cried, in a voice of exquisite sweetness.


Will you remember me when we meet ?"

Remember thee!" she replied, lapsing in
this answer into the tender Quaker speech
she used sometimes, in moments of lightheartedness,
to reply to or address him at
Wyloe. " I am looking at thee, Malcolm ;
thine eyes are sad, thy face hollow. Thou
hast been grieving for me, Malcolm. Remember
thee ! Oh ! come— come — come !"
Again she extended her hands and convulsive
sobs broke from her.

For some minutes after he was silent she
remained in her former intent, staring, and
hearkening attitude ; she then sighed deeply,
quitted the bulwarks, took some turns along
the deck, again walked to the bulwarks and
looked and listened as before, and with

another heart-broken sigh gHded to the 
and went below. The clergyman
followed, whispering good-night to Stone.
She made straight to her berth and closed
the door after her ; he waited a little, then
opened the door, softly withdrew the key, and
turned the lock from the outside, leaving the
key in the lock that it might be instantaneously
used if needed. This done, he
withdrew to his own little berth, where, being
hidden from all sight but God's, he cast himself
down in a chair in a bitter fit of weeping
that was good for him, for the relief to his
overcharged heart was like the easing of
some strangling pain ; and with a cleansed
brain he could pray, and think clearly of what
had passed.

A STEAMER IS SIGHTED.

FoRTESCUE passed a broken night. He could
hardly close his eyes for deep, anxious and
bewildering thoughts. All the mystery and
awe of his own vision and its astonishing accomplishment
were, now that the issue was
reached, now that Agatha was safe, overshadowed
by the wonder of the extraordinary
psychological conundrum that the shipwreck
of his beloved had confronted him with.
Would it, as he had more than once thought
In the day that had passed, come to his having
to build up a fresh fabric of emotion on
her new faculty of recollection, win her love
this side the veil that had fallen, and teach
her heart afresh all those former passions
and delights which had found a grave in
her memory ?

He awoke at half-past seven, and after

gently turning the key in Agatha's door, and
listening, he went on deck, where he found
Hiram and Stone walking up and down, the
watch below coming to the caboose for their
breakfast, the watch on duty clearing up the
decks, and a strong wind blowing from the
southward, yet without much sea. The sky
was a dingy blue, and the scud was flying
along it like the scattering of the sooty
belching of a city of factory chimneys
behind the windward ocean. The Golden
Hope was rushing through it with flattened
sheets and single-reefed mainsail ; the water
poured in a white arch from the weather bow,
and the heel of her as she shredded the surges
wonderfully accentuated the idea of swift
motion indicated by the whirling passage of
the creaming stuff to leeward, whose seething
the wind echoed in screams as it tore
buckets full of it up and drove the blobs like
chips of glistening white coral into the air.

It was a fine, rushing picture to come
upon from a small cabin ; and it was the
heartier as a realising influence because of
the feeling that the schooner was homeward
bound. Weeks and Stone touched their

VOL. III. E

caps as the curate approached them ; there
was some talk of the weather, the rate of
saiHng, the promise of a speedy passage
home and the Hke, then said Fortescue : —

'' I suppose, captain, Mr. Stone has told
you what happened last night ?"

'' He did, sir, at height bells when I come
on deck. We took the liberty of talking' about
it, perhaps for half-an-hour, sartine not less
I should think. Bill ? For, remarkable as
your vision was, sir, I can't but consider it's
laziness clean swamped by this here sleep-walking'
an' recollection'. Think of a gent
standing alongside a lady an' she a-talkin' to
him as if he wur ten thousand mile off — sound
asleep, too, for all her r6>/-lected answering !
Tell ye what it is, Mr. Fortescue, this here
voyage makes one see there's more inside of
a chap than it might be agreeable to him to
know he's got, if his nerves ain't as well setup
as a line-o'-battle ship's lower rigging'. I
mean to give up doubting', myself It must bean
out-and-out twister as 'ud cause me to calla
man a liar for tellin' of it."

Is Archer on deck ?" said Fortescue.
I wish to ask him a question."

Old Stone sang out, and, with 
smartness, Archer sprang through the
forecastle and stepped aft. He gave the
old-fashioned marine scrape of that day, and
stood, tall, erect, respectful, waiting to be
addressed, an excellent sample of the English
mariner. In his gentle, cordial, sympathetic
way, Fortescue inquired after his health, how
he had rested, and so forth, and then said : —

'archer, during the time you were on the
island with Miss Fox did you ever know her
to walk in her sleep ?"

'' No, sir."

Do you feel sure that she never did .^"

"Well, sir, of course when I was sleeping
myself I couldn't know what she did ; but I
never imagined it, I never suspected it, and
I don't think she did."

'' I am asking because she walked last
night ; Mr. Stone and I guarded her, and I
asked her questions to which she responded
with perfect clearness of memory — questions
referring to what she does not recollect when
she is awake."

'* I think, sir," said Archer, ''if it was her
custom I should have found it out."

UBRAfnr

'mvWRRny f^ nil

That was all Fortescue required to know
and Archer went forward.

Beg your pardon', sir," said Stone, with
hesitation mixed with the tone his voice
took from the profound interest he felt in the
matter, "but don't you like the idea of the
lady walking' in her sleep, sir ?"
-No."

'' But," continued the old man, "don't you
fancy, sir, that these here conversations with
you in her sleep might come to make an
impression upon her as a dream which some
fine morning' she'd wake up and recollect ?"

Dunno if Mr. Fortescue understands ye,
Bill," exclaimed Hiram, "but bile rie if I do,
mate."

"Why," grumbled Stone, sourly, "how
would ye have any living' man put it better ?
Call it me — I ain't got no memory ; I walks
in my sleep, dreams an' answers questions.
Merry good. What I says is, one morning' I
wakes up and says to myself, I says, ' Goblets
me ! last night I dreamt o' so and so' —
things, look ye, Hiram, I couldn't recollect of
afore when I was awake, and in that way
memVy returns. D'ye understand now ?"

*' Why, yes," responded Hiram, with a dull,
protruding gaze at the sea astern, " I see
what ye're a-trying to drive at ; but I don't
think it 'ud answer — that is if you wants my
opinion."

Anyway, Mr. Fortescue," exclaimed
Stone, "if I was you, sir, I'd encourage
that sleep-walking' in the lady. Leastways,
seeing that it's a habit. I shouldn't dorrit
over her a-practisin' of it. If it hadn't been
for your walking' and dreaming' she wouldn't
be aboard I"

And squinting at Hiram with a triumphant
glitter in his eye over this stroke, he suddenly
appeared to find something wrong with the
set of a headsail, and strode forward, calling
out.

It is scarcely conceivable that Fortescue
should attach much significance to the
metaphysical theories of such men as Stone
and Captain Weeks. A knowledge of the
medicinal and fortifying properties of old
Jamaica rum, intimate acquaintance with
shipboard duties, the art of setting up rigging,
of taking a vessel to pieces and putting her
together again ; these things were to be expected

In two such seasoned '' lobscousers ;
but when it came to their notions of the
operation of the soul and the movements of
the human understanding under strained and
singular conditions, why, there was a laugh
to be got out of their talk, no doubt, but
very little in the shape of an idea.

And yet, as the curate followed with his
eye the rolling figure of old Stone striding
towards the forecastle, it seemed to him that
there might be something, too, in the seaman's
fancy that dreams such as Agatha
dreamt last night, deepened by his questions,
might recur to her on waking and bring with
them recollections of the things the visions
concerned. The fancy, or rather the hope
affected him ; he went below, and finding the
door still closed lightly tapped upon it. It
was immediately opened. The girl was fully
dressed in her attire of yesterday. He
grasped her hand with a moment's pause ere
speaking, not knowing what expression her
face might take to the meeting of their eyes ;
but it needed only a moment, and he bade
her good-morning with a voice that faltered
with a passing sickness of heart.

I was this Instant coming on deck, Mr.
Fortescue," said she, smiling as she inclined
her head. '' It is a cosy little bedroom''
glancing around her; " but the deck gives me
the space I enjoyed on the Island. I love
movement and I like to see the wide sky all
around me. It is a habit — it may have been
so before my memory went."

She sighed lightly, and looked down upon
the deck with a grave face, as though she
talked of the dead or something that demanded
a solemnity in her. He noticed that
she was a shade paler than he had observed
her to be on the previous day. He could not
be sure that It was not owing to the fainting
of the Island's sunny glow on her face. In
the schooner she was protected from the
tropical glare by awnings, sails, and decks ;
and it was to be expected that the delicate
tinge which, combined with her disordered
masses of shining hair, rendered her free,
developed beauty — bright as ocean light,
healthful as ocean wind — almost startling for
the singularity of Its charms, should yield to
the natural velvet whiteness of her skin ; otherwise
there was nothing to indicate that she

suffered in any respect from her exposure
during the night, or from whatever mental
sufferings her dreaming had excited in her.

Did you sleep well ?"

'' Very well."

'' Did no sounds on deck, no movement of
the schooner disturb you ? No sense of the
novelty of a bed after your island house of
leaves — no dreams ?" he exclaimed with a
forced smile, eager to touch her memory, yet
not wishing that she should find his manner
suggestive of his desire.

She shook her head and answered:
Nothing. I slept soundly." She then
came into the cabin from the doorway of
her berth, and, putting her hand against a
stancheon, appeared to notice for the first
time the jumping and swinging motion of the
vessel. She was clearly giving it her mind,
whilst she kept her soft eyes fastened
thoughtfully upon the clergyman, and in a
moment or two she said, '' This swinging
feeling is familiar to me ; it brings back —
What ? What ?" and as she spoke a sudden
gleam of fear shone in her glance.

He waited to see if more would dawn upon

her, but observing the old glazing expression
to creep over her face, he exclaimed with a
passionate anxiety to quicken what appeared
to be a dim stirring in her, " It reminds you
of the \'erulam, x'\gatha — of the heave of
the great ship upon the billows. Can you
recollect now ?"

'*No," she answered, in a tone of weariness,
*' I cannot remember, I cannot remember,
Mr. Fortescue," and she raised her eyes to
his with an extraordinary look of pathetic,
wistful entreaty as if she was in dread that
she would be chided. With an effort of
powerful determination he changed his
manner and put a note of lively heartiness
into it.

'ewe shall be having breakfast in half-an-hour,"
said he ; '' instead of our going on deck
let me comb some more of these pretty
tresses. I long to see them in shining coils
upon your head, for the sake of your comfort,
and for their preservation."

She laughed and acquiesced, and removed
the seal-skin cap. In a few moments he
was at work, pausing often to caress her
head and hair, bringing the lengths to one

or the other side of her that he might see
her face.

By the time breakfast was served, he had
made such good headway with the combing
job that another hour spent upon her hair
would give it back its old smooth, silken
beauty in completeness. He remarked that
as Captain Weeks came below his long gaunt
bow to her had a touch of timidity in it, and
that he cast several askant looks at her after
they were seated. In truth, her sleep-walking
had weighed more upon Hiram than he
cared to admit. But he had a bit of news
to relate ; so in a sort of bustling way, as
though to overwhelm the agitation he felt
on finding himself close to the mysterious,
beautiful girl who answered questions in her
sleep and could talk to her lover all the way
to Wyloe from the middle of the Indian
Ocean, "and him 'alongside her all the time,"
as he had said to Stone, he exclaimed :
"There's a steamers smoke on the weather
quarter, Mr. Fortescue. She'll be a steamer
—not a vessel on fire — for the place where
the smoke's a-comin'' from is travelling' as fast
as we are."

It's Strange to meet a steamer hereabouts
so few as they are," said Fortescue.

Why, it sartine is. 'Ain't to be supposed
she's been sent on our arrant, for who's
to know that any survivors of the W'erulam
was cast away upon Stone's Island — unless
she's been commissioned to search these
waters. Yet it's odd, too, she should be in
the neighbourhood of that there island —
'ceptin' if marching's her errand they've took
a plaguey long time to make up their
minds."

** It might be," exclaimed Fortescue, much
excited by these surmises, " that some of the
Merula's people have reached India, and
that this steamer has been despatched from
Bombay or Calcutta, or any other port where
the news of the wreck was first received, to
visit the islands in these seas !"

"Well, we shall see," said Hiram. "Anyways
the smoke to windward's a steamer's.
Only suppose she should be a enemy ?
Suppose war's broke out between Great
Britain and some furrin' country — France or
the United States !" He drew a long face.
By golly, Mr. Fortescue, there's never no

tellln'. We've been three months absent,
an' in three months there's plenty o' time fora
all-round shindy big enough to drive the
Prussians into H'asia Mine and to enable
the Sultan of all the Turkeys to pray to his
Prophet in St. Patrick's Cathedral. A pretty
blooming' affair now it 'ud be to be taken
prisoners !" And one could see that the
long-legged, hollow-checked fellow was perfectly
sincere in the alarm he was kindling in
himself, by the hurried way he masticated his
food and tossed down his coffee.

To all this Agatha paid no attention whatever.
Sometimes Fortescue would observe
her looking at him with an air of meditation
that his hope accepted as a manifestation of
inward struggle, till he'd see that it was no
more than an interest he was exciting in her,
and that she was comparing him with Hiram,
and with Archer, perhaps, and Stone. This,
to be sure, he could only imagine, for in her
darkened mind even her own eye would fail
to follow the movements of her thoughts ; yet
he might be right, and it was certain at least,
that as her lover, as Malcolm Fortescue of
Wyloe, as her betrothed, her memory confronted

him as blank and blind as the stare
of a corpse.

Hiram had made himself uncomfortable,
and after a hasty breakfast ran on deck
with a glass to watch the steamer. There
was nothing, indeed, remarkable in his misgiving,
unless it were its prematureness.
Those were days when France was like a
boil on Europe, keeping the whole body
politic irritable. There was also a tendency
on the part of Jonathan and John Bull to
throw themselves into sparring attitudes,
spite of the vast amount of soothing syrup
that was talked to allay the spasms of the
press on both sides ; in short, even at home,
a man never knew what a day might bring
forth, and a skipper, therefore, who had been
three months at sea without speaking an
outward ship and obtaining a word of news,
scarcely deserved ridicule for throwing an
alarmed glance at anything resembling a
pursuit, especially when it made a smoke.

Fortescue waited for Stone to arrive for
his breakfast before conducting Agatha on
deck. The old chap came bundling down
in a hurry and fell to eating in hot haste.

'' Is the Steamer still in sight ?" asked the
clergyman.

'' Ay, sir ; a good deal too much in sight,"
responded the mate, with his mouth full.
** It's martin she's twigged us and has shifted
her helm, for her canvas is rising fast."

'but surely," exclaimed Fortescue, much
disquieted by Stone's impetuosity, and hurry,
and manner, "there is nothing to alarm one
in that, is there? She may wish to speak us."

'eyes," said Stone, as drily as earnest
mastication would permit, " exactly, sir.
That's jest no doubt what he do want. But
why ? And who is he ? I mean what's his
flag ? And what is he a-doing' down here ?"
And the old fellow wagged his head most
portentously, whilst the steady grinding of his
jaws behind his closed mouth gave a ripe curl
of sourness to his lips each time they met.

When Fortescue conducted Agatha on
deck he was surprised to notice on the
weather quarter, where nothing had been
visible when he went below, the smoke and
canvas of a steamer that was obviously making
a freer wind of it than the schooner. She
was under a press of sail, and the cloths came

out in a froth-like white against the dark slate
•of the masses of flying vapour that way, so
resembling the melting of the heads of the
seas into snow it was puzzling to tell one
from the other ; the smoke flew back in a
long trail down upon the water, and it was
plain that the vessel, whatever she might be,
was sweeping through it at a very great pace.
Hiram was working away at her with the
telescope as though he would drive the one
protruding eye he looked with sheer into the
tube.

I dunno, I'm sure, what to make of her,"
he exclaimed, turning his long, gaunt face,
that literally twitched and crawled with perplexity
and bother, to the curate. "She's
rigged as a three-masted schooner, and's got
a fore royal, and it's set. Has every appearance
of a gun-boat. What's she a doing of
here ? It's clear she's heading' for us. What's
to be done? If it was evening instead of
morning I'd hook it, take count o' the night

and chance the rest. As it is " he paused,

with an eager, restless, stare aloft and then
a long look at the growing canvas to windward.


'' But she may be a countryman of ours.
Captain Weeks."

"Ay, but supposing' she ain't, sir?"

She is certain to hoist her colours."

"Yes, but suppose war's broke out, who's
a-going' to trust to bunting ? She may be a
farrier and yet run the English ensign aloft
jest to make sure of us by our answer.
Damme — beg pardon, I'm sure — but what I
mean is — damme if I know what to do !"

Here old Stone arrived.

"Every minutes letting' her gain upon us.
Bill," cried Hiram to him. " By piling' on, th'
Hope ought to be able to make an all day
chase of it, with this here breeze, spite of his
engines. Take the glass and tell us if there's
anything ye can find noticeable in her."

Stone put the telescope on the rail and
curved his shell-shaped back to it.

"She's a man-o'-war," he exclaimed, suddenly,
springing erect and turning with an
emphatic manner.

Ye think so ?"

Unmistakable. There's a hoist and a
trim and a cut and a look I'd swear to if I
had to pay the wages of this here voyage for

proving wrong. Likely enough to be a
British gun-boat."

'* And Hkely as not to be some blasted
furrlner !" cried Hiram, forgetting his manners
in his excitement and alarm. 'rout with this
reef. Bill ! Friend or enemy, we've no call
to wait for him. Lads, tumble aft here and
shake this reef out. Hi, you, Johnny! jump
aloft and loose the t'gallan's'l ! Harry,"
putting his hand to his mouth to bawl to
Sawyer, who was smoking a pipe in the head,
*sing out to Bill an' Martin and brothers to
come up and set the square sail. Let her go
off, Jimmy! two full points — you have her!
William," addressing Stone, "see them head-sheets
eased off. Look alive, lads. We'll
want stun sails on her in a minute ! Whoop I
the old gal feels the wind when the choke of
its grip is off her," and he slapped his knees
with both hands, producing a sound like the
report of a pistol as he peered to leeward at
the water that spun by like boiling milk,
rising in foam to the figure-head and bursting
away from either bow in steaming clouds as
the shifting of the helm enabled the clipper to
take the fuller weight of the strong wind into

VOL. III. F

the Iron-hard hollows of her thunderous
canvas.

The men, not understanding what was the
matter, but smelling danger In all this commotion,
ran about as for their lives. The
fact Is, there was something really contagious
In Hiram's alarm, and at such times few
men stop to reason. Even to Fortescue, the
schooner's canvas, mounting like a growing
light against the listings of the sombre clouds,
took a malignant character, though he could
not have said why. Hiram came to him
whilst the men were pulling and tumbling
about, and after a look at the steamer under
the sharp of his hand, cried out as though he
were talking to himself: —

'' Ay, she may be, but who's to know ? And
when known, If It don't prove correct, why, of
course, then It's too late. If she's an Englishman,
/ don't want to run away. Not likely.
But how's a man to guess ? Not by the flag
she'll hoist. No ; If she's an enemy, If there's
war, If her game be to nab all she can come
across, she'll up with any colour that to her
fancy may resemble our own flag, jest to bamboozle
us and bring us within range by lullln

suspicion. But she ain't going to lull nne r
he shouted, with a jump that nearly tumbled
him on to his nose. " Mr. Stone, git that
topmast staysail-boom rigged out and the sail
set. Show yourselves alive, bullies ! Why,"
he bawled, 'there may be a Russian, or a
French, or a Yankee prison inside that there
hooker yonder !"

It was plain that the fears excited by the
heaving into view of the steamer had got a
firm hold of Hiram's mind.

"See here, sir!" he exclaimed, turning
rapidly upon Fortescue, and pouring out his
words with pell-mell haste and an argumentative
tone in them : '' We've been three
months absent ; there may be war ; at the
present moment Britain may be fighting' with
God knows what nations ; that steamer maybe
an enemy ; we, not suspecting, heaves-to,
a boat arrives, and, by the Lord, afore we can
sing out, here we are clapped under hatches,
a prize crew aboard, and a chap with a moustache
a-heading the Golden Hope for a
neutral port. Why not ? Ain't it possible .^
What 'ud be the good of heaving-to in order
to make sure when what I says is all possible

? Think I want to be locked up ?
Vessel taken from me ? Notion to receive ?
The port o' London, where I belongs, as
visionary as the island was when you dreamt
about it in your village ?"

He ran to the lee side to stare at the foam
sweeping past, then rushed up to the weather
quarter again, and, picking up the telescope,
levelled it at the steamer. He looked at her
for some moments ; Fortescue watched him.
Suddenly he dropped the glass and turned an
ashen face upon the curate.

^' Good God !" he gulped, as though he
swallowed whilst he spoke the words.

"What is it?" demanded Fortescue, now
rendered thoroughly nervous by the man's
consternation.

Bill!" yelled Hiram.

Old Stone came rolling along as fast as he
could stir his legs.

He's set topmast and t'gall'n-stunsails.
Bill!" cried Hiram, pointing to the steamer
with the telescope.

'' He's after us, then !" said Stone.

"He's heading," continued Hiram, "broad
off, actually quartern' the wind ! And why ?

To get to woodward of us. where his 
let him have it all his own way if so
be as he can jam us when there into a ratch."
"Give US hold of the glass," cried Stone,
who had grown a shade or two paler also.
There was a pause ; the old fellow brought
his eye away from the telescope. "Ay, he's
after us I His game's as you say — to get to
woodward of us ! It don't look friendly — it
don't look friendly. An' he's overhauling us.
Yes," taking another look, "there's no mistaken'
; he's going through it faster nor weare.
Steam and sail combined must out-weather
us ! Well, here's a pretty mess to
come all the ways into the H'injie Ocean to
tumble into !"

THE SCHOONER IS SPOKEN.

The wind was what a sailor would term a
topgallant breeze, with weight enough in it to-single
reef the topsails for a prudent skipper ;
and under the wide spread of cloths which
Hiram's alarm had flung upon his vessel the
schooner was driving along like a racehorse
at a finish.

Agatha had seated herself on the low
skylight whilst Fortescue talked with the
captain, and there she remained, watching
the men making sail and looking around her,
doubtful, timid, wondering, at first started by
Hiram's excited orders and the hoarse and
roaring " Cheerly men!" chorus at the halliards
and wherever a pull was taken, and by
the rushing noises of the passing waters on
either hand, and the faint thunder of pouring
billows, and the screaming and wailing as of a

thousand fifes and bagpipes In the rigging
till the whole spirit of the thing coming Into
her, mainly as one might suspect through the
buoyant leaping and floating rushing and
shootings of the hull and the increased speed
of it, she sprang to her feet with a brilliant
flush in her cheeks and the light of the
sudden gladness and deep excitement of her
heart in her eyes, and, with amazing grace
and nimbleness, leapt on to the bulwark rail
and there stood, with her arm round a backstay,
gazing out to sea, away on the weather
bow, her dress rattling like a flag, her hair
blowing inboard — for the whole mass of it
lay on her back again — her figure leaning
well away, and an air of triumph on her face
that was like the radiance of mirth without
expression of laughter.

Plenty of notice would at any other time
have been given to her by the crew, who
reckoned her crazy and fearsome in other
ways, for Joe Hall had carried forward all
the news about her sleep-walking, though
the men had had no time to talk the thing
over, but their attention was fixed on the
steamer astern. The stood all together

near the weather foregoing, speculating
upon the vessel's nationality, and most of
them as alarmed as Hiram himself.

I 'spoke the skipper understands what
he's about," said the cook. " He's bin long
enough at sea to know what o'clock it is.
You may reckon, lads, that something invisible
to us has taken his h'eye or he'd never
sweat th' old hooker in this fashion."

Well, it'll be a pretty blooming' look-out
for us if so be she tarns out an enemy,"
exclaimed Breeches. " He's bound to have
us. His hanover's quite plain. He's
stealing to leonard and means to jam us with
his blooming' machinery. Well, if there's
war and she's a enemy, it's good-night.
I've heard what furrin jails is like, and
the black bread they feed ye on, an' any
man who's got a wife had better make up his
mind to start a new home when he comes
out. for starvation'll have given him another
face, I allow. His friends won't know him,
and any boots he may have left ashore he'll
find filled up with another man's feet. I'm
ameer of what I'm talking' about. There was
Billy Mothers. He wor captured out of

a H'Indieman somewhere up here. When he
was Liberated he found his wife had been
twice married since him, and the chap as was
then courting' her 'broke Billy's head as an
impostor."

He sent a o^loomv look over the taffrail
and folded his arms with a stare at the
cook's pale face. Johnny, the boy, began
to blubber.

For this here schooner to be taken and
us men made prisoners of '11 be a pleasing'
termination of the voyage, sartine," said
Goldsmith, in a growling ironical voice, and
savagely burying his hands in his pockets.
I know I wish I'd never shipped. Don't
believe I ever should if it hadn't been for
Duck parsuadin' of me. There's that about
this here voyage that's kep' me uncomfortable
all through. Why, damme, I wouldn't half
so much object to the parson's vision if it
hadn't turned out true. It's its trueness as
disagrees with me. If a man points to a
corner and says 'There's the Devil,' and
there's notion there, I laugh at him ; but if
he points and I look and sees a black man
with a tail 'twixt his legs and eyes as big as

riding-lights, why then, ye see, I wants to
retire. There's a sight too much of what
ain't natural in this voyage. Don't want to-say
notion against the lady, but if Joe ain't
telling lies when he says that she's more
sensible when she's asleep than when she's
awake — reversing all the nat'ral laws as I'm
acquainted with — then what I says is, I'm
not going' to be surprised if the schooner's
luck's gone out of her and the worst ye can
fear a-followin' of us in that steamer."

'* I tell yer," said Joe Hall, 'that the lady
came up asleep. She stared at notion, past
me till I slipped t'other side the tiller in a
sweat. Then she sensibly talks to the
parson and jMr. Stone at the lee rail, points
and chucks her arms about, asleep all the
time, and goes below missing nothing,
stepping' out true as a hair."

There's nothing wonderful in that." said
Archer, who had been listening quietly.
Providence looks after sleep-walkers. I've
heard of women getting on to the tops of
roofs of houses and strolling about on ledges
so tall and narrow that people watching them
have turned sick."

*' Well, I only wish the lady was more
natural, more 'cording to regulations," said
the cook, directing his pale face, full of uneasy
workings, towards the steamer. " I
never was shipmates with anyone as walked
in his sleep afore, and though Providence, as
Archer says, may keep a h'eye on the movements
of a party given to insensibly heating
after the manner of ghosts, my notion is that
the spirit what works in a party and enables
him or her to converse all the way from herewith
a man supposed to be in England but
'alongside her all the time, can't belong to the
part people looks up to when they prays I"

Why not ?" demanded Archer.

Why not ?" echoed the cook. " 'Cause if
it was the sort o' spirit a man has no call to
be alarmed at, it 'ud make a party act after
the manner the party was intended to."

I agree with Micky," observed Goldsmith.
" I recollect of hearing a preacher
chap at a Bethel say that when the ancient
Jews saw a man acting unnatural they calculated
the devil had stowed himself away inside
of him. How they got him out o' the man
I forgets ; but anyhow that notion of the

ancient Jews — who weren't blooming' fools,
neither, spite o' Bill grinning' ."

I'm grinning," exclaimed Breeches, "because
ye're amain' out that that notion
you've spoken about belonged to the Jews.
Why, man, when I was a lad the idea
was common in the village I was born in.
I've helped to duck two old women myself
'cause the belief was they'd shoved evil
spirits into folks, and prevented hens from
laying eggs!"

This observation led to a lively argument
between the cook. Breeches, and Goldsmith
as to whether the belief that people who
acted erratically, like sleep-walkers, or demoniacally,
like Breeches' two old women, were
possessed by demons, originated with the
ancient Jews or with Bill's village contemporaries.


But the pursuit ! What did that steamer,
there, signify ? She was yet hull down, but
with all her canvas showing, settling away on
the lee quarter ; though now when Hiram
brought his eye from the glass, he informed
Stone that she was heading exactly their own
course.

There is no doubt she is after us ?" said
the curate.

*' Not a shudder of doubt, Mr. Fortescue."

"And she is overtaking us!"

"That's plain, too, sir."

"Suppose she should prove an Englishman,
captain .^"

I don't want to find out, Mr. Fortescue.
I don't want to have notion to say to her.
As I have told ye, if she ain't a friend it'll be
too late when the fact's discovered. Bill,
shall we bring the schooner close .-^ We're
being picked up, mate I"

"It won't do to jam her," answered Stone ;
"but it might be worth finding' out if th'
Hope won't lie closer than t'other can. Half
a point "

Then down with that staysail, Bill !"
burst out Hiram ; and in a moment old
Stone was running forward and singing
out. The men, rendered active as cats by
anxiety, in a very few minutes had hauled
down the staysail, braced the yards sharp
up, and " sweated," as they say at sea, every
sheet to a pancake-flatness of canvas. The
vessel was kept a rapfull, but the shift of helm

had brought the sea well on the bow, and
the pressure aloft was exceedingly heavy, for
the Golden Hope, sweeping Into the breeze,
put a true stormy spite Into Its hard pouring,
and she drove along like a locomotive, the
spray breaking In snow - storms over her
head, her lee rail pretty nearly flush with
the smother there, her weather standing
rigging like bars of steel for the wind to
split on and rave through, every foreground
of her canvas flashing with a starry light
and melting Into pallid dimness with the
reel and stagger of the spars to the sun,
and his dazzling leaping from one cloud-edge
to another. Phew ! 'Twas noble sailing, the
flight rather of some beautiful creature of
instinct, maddened by a far-off bellowing In
her wake, than the mechanic movements of
a piece of man's handiwork urged by the
winds and guided by the helm.

The crew gathered aft for the shelter of
the quarter-deck from the tempestuous raining
of green water forward, and stood
grouped near the main rigging, all staring, as
with one pair of eyes, at the steamer.
Hiram, kneeling on those legs of his, which

in their trousers looked rather less supple
than a pair of sugar-tongs, inspected the
stranger through the telescope. He watched
her for a long minute, the glass lifting and
falling with his head to the plunge and dip of
the schooner. Then rising and casting his
protruding eyes in the most dismal manner,
first on Mr. Fortescue, then on Stone, and
finally on the men, he said in a low but
hollow voice, " Lads, he's hauled his wind!"

Heading' up as we do?" shouted Breeches.

*ray," answered Hiram, 'ras we do."

'' Then," growled Goldsmith, with a note
of desperation in his deep-sea bass, " it's h,
a, double hell — hall, u, p-hup, hall hup,
bullies. What's a-going' to withstand engines
in a vessel as can sail as close as the chase ?"

Hiram took no notice of this.

But, men," cried out Mr. Fortescue,
"after all, our ideas are pure imagination
so far. How do we know that she is not
an Englishman ? Presuming her to be a
foreigner, what right have we, as yet, to
suppose that the country she belongs to is at
war with us ?"

"Ay, that's all very well, sir," bawled the

cook ; " but what's Captain Weeks running
away for, then ?"

"Because," roared Hiram, "it's one of
them businesses which, to make sure of,
allows 'em chiefly to make sure of you.
What's she a-chasing of us for ? D'ye think
she'd shift her course if she only wanted to
speak — if there was notion particular? Shea
man-o'-war, and what's her purpose in these
here waters? Why, yes," he shouted scornfully,
"she 7?iay be a countryman, and she
viae be mistaken of our dodging' her. But
d'ye wish me to heave-to to find out, when
by getting' away we shall be dropping all the
risks I've told yer about?"

"But we aren't going' to get away!" cried
Breeches. "Why, she's swelling' up, down
there, like a sailor's w^estkit in a public-house!"


"She's got a colour frying," said Stone,,
who had been silently working away with
the glass.

Ha!" exclaimed Hiram, wheeling round.

At the fore royal masthead," continued
the mate. He looked a little while longer.
"I dunno," he cried, "my sight ain't what

it was ; but — but if it ain't blue an' white
and red you may bile me," he roared out,
"or if it's taller, or black, or green?"

Hiram looked on, dully, an instant or
two, staring at Stone. "By thunder I" he
muttered, then snatched at the glass and
levelled it. 'french!" he yelled. 'who's
got eyes here ?"

The men came in a rush all around him.
Hiram gave the telescope to Archer, who,
after a short inspection, said, " Yes, sir, the
tricolour. A small French screw man-of-war.


Others of the men looked — Breeches,
Goldsmith, Duck ; they were all agreed.
The flag in the glass blew out its tints
brilliant to the sun, and the vessel herself,
her hull now and again showing betwixt a
sea, black and glossy as the plumes of a
raven, was heading up to it like the schooner
herself, and gaining steadily with every five
minutes that went by.

Hiram, folding his arms, took a long look
at the stranger and then a long look at the
men. He was lost in thought ; then awoke
to earnestly inspect his canvas, and judge his

VOL. HI. G

speed by watching the passage of the white
water.

"Bill," he said, addressing Stone in a voice
to be heard by all hands, 'she's catching us
up, but we'll keep on this ratch and hold on
all, for we're not to know she wants us to
stop, and something might happen to her
engines, or she might carry away a mast —
and anyways we'll hold on all !"

Stone nodded.

But whether there's war or not," continued
Hiram, making his eyes meet with a
singular look in Mr. Fortescue's face, "that's
no call for us, whether we're overhauled or
whether we succeed in getting' away, to feel
ashamed of the colours we sail under. So,
Bill, out with the ensign and run him up."

This was done, and as old Stone hauled
the glorious bit of bunting, streaming like a
flame as it soared rattling in a graceful curve,
to the halliard-block at the peak, one saw the
English spirit, acting like the touch of nature
that makes the whole world kin, in every
man's face, as the whole mob of them followed
with their gaze the flight of the meteor flag
to its destination at the lofty gaff-end.

"They've hauled down the flag at the
masthead," shouted Stone, with his eye at
the glass. '* Hill I One — tew — three — four
five flags ; they're signalising of us ; and
hill!" he bawled again, " they're a-firing !"

The small white ball of smoke, that as it
leapt from some bow gun or other of the
steamer, was blown by the wind into a stretch
of veil-like vapour, was instantly seen, and
all hands stared for the missile.

'well, I'm doodle!" bawled old Breeches.

'that's meant for our ensign, I repose, an'
If it don't signify war, why*, then, any man
may chuck old Bill overboard as likes."

Anybody see where the shot struck .^"
shouted Hiram, in a quite desperate state of
excitement. There was no answer. "Anybody
hear the explosion ?''

Oi did," cried Johnny, with his whiteface
conspicuous among the men.

'* Beg pardon, capon," said Archer, stepping
forward, '* but if so be, as Mr. Stone says,
that steamer's signalising of us, it's likely
she's fired her gun to call attention to her
flags or as a request to us to heave-to."

*' There's no use in her bothering' with

flags," cried Hiram, whose agitation kept
him jumping and hopping about as though
his nervous system had been suddenly and
violently smitten, 'cause we've got no book
on board and shan't be able to understand
notion but ensigns. As to her meaning by
her gun to ask us to heave-to, why, if I could
believe it wasn't shotted — and that she only

wanted to speak us " and here he stopped

with his eyes on Fortescue.

'there can be no doubt, I suppose," said
the clergyman, "that she is French?"

I don't know, sir," answered Hiram.
"She may be a Rooslan. I tell yer, hoisting
colours in war time's mere cheating' "

"Anyway," pursued the clergyman, "she's
gaining on us ?"

"Hand over fist," answered Stone. "Them
there propellers, Fve heard, often do best
when the wind's heading, by the grip they
get of the water."

She's certain to overtake us, then ?"

Stone shrugged his shoulders, Hiram
turned to look at the steamer, the men
glanced over the sides or up aloft. The
silence was general and mightily expressive.

'' I think we ouQrht to hea\-e-to," said Fortescue,
mildly.

*' The schooner's yours, sir ; you're my
master ; whatever orders you giveth be
obeyed," exclaimed Hiram, rounding rapidly
on his long legs and speaking with an eagerness
and anxiety that made you see he
wanted to be quit of his responsibility.

"What do you say, men?" exclaimed Fortescue,
addressing them. "You see how the
case stands. Our fears may prove imaginary,
but in any case she is certain to outrun us,
and supposing it conceivable she should be an
enemy we are not going to improve our
reception at her hands by a long and irritating
chase."

That seems right enough, sir," said Stone.

'* If she's bound to overhaul us." growled
Breeches, 'why then she must."

"Why, yes, of course, if she dew, she
dew," cried Goldsmith; "but something' may
happen, an' Fm for keeping' all on as we're a-
going'. Time enough to heave-to, says I,
when she proper fires at us."

'there goes a second gun, anyhow,"
observed Archer.

It would have made a monkey laugh to seethe
fellows staring up at the sails and at the
sea to observe where and what the ball was
going to strike.

'' I tell ye what it is, lads," said James
Kitt, throwing a savage, fighting look along
the schooner's unarmed deck, " for an
Englishman to be aimed at by a Parley Voo-
without his having so much as a squib to
return the compliment with, is a dispensation
as don't suit my book, for one. An' running
away from that three-coloured rag's as little
to my taste, too. If it was me, I'd down
helium and chance th' odds."

'well, I'm agreeable," said Breeches.

*' Notion else to be done, as I can see""
exclaimed Sawyer.

'' All right, down helium, then !" cried
Duck.

"It's your wish, sir?" said Hiram.

What choice have we ?" answered the
clergyman, not without anxiety in his voice,
as he looked at the steamer.

"In tor'gan'sl !" bawled Hiram. "Back
the torps'l ! Down staysail and flying-jib.
Up main tack ! She's been sweated enough."

The men sprang about, those who would
have remonstrated smothering up their objections,
and presently the schooner was
lying without headway upon her, bowing
the long, steady rolling sea with a regular
rhythmical swing of stem and stern, everything
quiet aloft, and the crew looking over
the lee rail at the steamer that had reduced
canvas down to bare poles, and was heading
for the weather quarter of the Golden Hope,
flinging the billows aft in spray over her
as her screw drove her headlong through
them.

About a quarter of an hour after the
schooner had been hove-to, the sudden
dropping of the wind was like the weather's
confirmation of the wisdom of Hiram in
bringing his vessel to a stand. It was certain
it rendered the men more satisfied with what
had been done, more particularly when they
noticed, as the steamer grew upon the sea, the
superb shapeliness of her hull, her dominant
shearing of the lessening surge rising white
to each bathed, the rake of spar whose
suggestion of speed was accentuated by the
swift pouring of smoke from the leaning

funnel, and the Inimitable animation of the
naked fabric as expressed In the pulsation of
blueish light in her wet sides, her shining
leaps from brow to brow with the tricolour
streaming at the gaff-end, where it might now
plainly be seen, and, as old Stone could mark
ere long through the glass, the glittering of
uniforms on the bridge.

The breeze had settled south-east again,
with something of the steadiness of the trade-wind
in it, when the Frenchman, as the
steamer was now by all hands agreed to be,
was about half-a-mlle distant. His approach
was watched with an anxiety that became a
kind of fever In the more nervous. Hiram
stood with one hand gripping the other bloodless,
Stone with folded arms. Breeches sour
but with the English sailor's doggedness In
his face. Goldsmith with that anticipative leer
which, as a prophetic expression, is good for
whatever may happen ; and so on. Mr.
Fortescue, holding Agatha's hand, thought to
himself, *' suppose Hiram Is right — that there
Is war between England and France, and weare
taken prisoners !" And you could have
guessed what was passing in his mind by the

face he would turn from the steamer to his
love.

On the other hand, the girl asked no
questions. It seemed to him as if her
imperfect grasp of what was happening
restrained her from interrogating him by
the sensitiveness that springs from one's
knowledge of one's ignorance. He would
see her straining her eyes at the coming
vessel, then g^lsLncing- from his to the faces
of the men, with a contraction as of earnest
thought in her fair brow followed by a side
peep of wistfulness at him, which, whenever
she caught him notice it, she'd endeavour,
in a manner most affecting to him, to charge
with a meaning he knew it did not possess,
by uttering some commonplace as to the
failure of the wind, the deadness of the blue
water, brimming formless past the bends of
the stationary schooner, and the like.

The steamer ranged alongside to windward
within easy speaking distance. Her
engines stopped, she came to a halt, and
lay rolling upon the sea, showing a broad
white deck with every leeward heave, a
few carronades, a long gun in the bows,

and whole masses of seamen, whose postures,
motions, figures, dress, would have
bespoken her origin and character though
she had come along with the red cross at
all three masthead and the most familiar
ship's name in the English tongue writ
large on each bow.

"Oh, ze schooner, eh-hy ?" shouted a
man, twinkling in buttons, from the bridge.

Hallo!" roared Hiram.

'' Vere you born' ?"

'' England !" shrieked Hiram.

Ve weel send a boat!" bawled the little
chap.

'what for, sir?" cried Hiram.

Ve have a leetel babes here, an' ve ask
you to take seem."

Hiram looked at Mr. Fortescue with a face
from which all human expression appeared to
have vanished — answering purely to Jack's
illustration, "As long as a wet swab."

"Well, I'm jiggered!" he rapped out,
bringing his open hand smartly against his
leg, " to think we crew of Englishmen
should ha' been running away all morn'
from — from a little baby!"

A NEW PASSENGER.

A SHOUT of laughter followed Hiram's exclamation.
It was like all hands letting out
their breath in a crv of relief and delight.
Indeed, the incident seemed a thing incredible
after the strain of the excitement all morning.
Was the request a sincere one ? Was it to
mask some manoeuvre, to catch the schooner
unawares ? The fancy seized old Breeches'
mind, and he whispered it quickly to those
nearest him, in a way to put such faces upon
them as would have satisfied any man that if
there was to be more laughter from the crew-there
were three or four who would not join
in it.

"Well, Mr. Fortescue, and what am I to
tell 'em, sir?" said Hiram, addressing the
clergyman, after a long pause full of hard
breathing and rolling chuckles, during which

something resembling the skipper's habitual
expression of countenance had slowly filtered
into his face.

A baby ?" exclaimed Fortescue. '' Surely
a most extraordinary request. Do you think
it was ' baby,' he said ? Is there anything
else like that word in a Frenchman's mouth
he could mean ?''

He said ba-BEE right enough ; ba-BEE.
And what's that word going to signify if it
don't answer to what it sounds like ?'' said
Hiram, looking at Stone.

"Well, no use bothering' over what's intended,
for they mean to explain it themselves,"
exclaimed Stone.

As he spoke, a fine ten-oared boat was
swung through the davits of the steamer, and
with tolerable smartness she was presently
heading for the schooner, with oars quickly
rising and falling, and a little glittering man
sitting aft, conspicuous even at a distance by
an enormous moustache. In true English
merchant fashion the crew of the Golden
Hope leaned over the side, watching the
boat, with their chins upon their bare arms,
their faces half-sullen, half-inquisitive. Invoices

rendered gloomy by the hoarseness
of their subdued notes, they criticised the
dress of the French seamen, their manner
of rowing, and other matters, which gratified
them as contrasts highly favourable to the
marine sons of " Britannia, the pride of the
ocean."

Truth is," muttered Goldsmith, " 'ain't in
the nature of Frenchmen to make sailors.
They never take to the sea naturally — they're
forced to it, and when sailors' clothes is give
'em they don't know hove to put 'em on.
And how d'ye think they're fed ? Why, on
soup ! and they has a thin red wine served
out teem, and I tell ye what, mates, notion
comes handy to 'em to lay hold of but a
musket. They're never comfortable in their
minds till they're put to marching' up and
down like soldiers."

The boat drew alongside and hooked on,
the gangway was unshipped, steps thrown
over, and the French lieutenant came onboard.
At the sight of Agatha he pulled off
his hat with such a flourish as he would have
made on one of his boulevards, and though
there was tact in his first manner of looking

he could not conceal his surprise and admiration.
In truth, this monsieur might have
spent his life In travelling over the world
without encountering In any woman the
surprising charms, the wild graces Agatha
offered to his eyes, with her hair trembling
to the wind, and Its auburn full of glory
when the sun streamed out upon It, her loose
apparel that yet revealed the beauty of her
shape, her buoyant sayings to the movement
of the schooner ; nor could he fail to
notice In the expression of her face the lack
of something Fortescue might have found
him a name for, but which would to an extent
increase the fascination of her beauty by
filling her brilliant yet soft and pensive stare
and the troubled gathering of her fair brows
with child-like marvelling and an Incomparable
naivete.

Leech," said the little Frenchman, smiling
and glancing round, after another look at
the girl over his great moustache, *' is ze
capitaine ?"

I am, sir," said Hiram, now quite satisfied
that there was nothing hostile In this business.

'' I beg pardon," said the lieutenant, bowing.

■''Your language I speak bad; there Is no one
here talk French ?"

Fortescue turned to Agatha. She used to
speak it fluently ; it would test her memory,
too. But to his first words she coloured
deeply and turned her face aside with an air
of distress, to cover which Fortescue said
quickly, " I am afraid, sir, we shall be unable
to converse with you except in our own
tongue. But your accent is excellent."

A profound bow and an overwhelming
smile repaid this compliment. Breeches,
standing amidst the tiptoeing, shoving, 
crew, growled out, '' Why
the blazes don't he say what he wants ? Has
he brought us to, jest to bow and cut capers
hay-lee-mode flogged T

'' Messieurs," said the Frenchman, " den I
most do my best. First, I weel ask why
you ron away T

'' 'Cause we didn't like your appearance,
sir; didn't understand your chasing of us;
couldn't see what you might be wanting' in
these here waters," said Hiram.

''Ha!" exclaimed the lieutenant, to whom
this reply was barely Intelligible, in spite of

Hiram's shouting at the top of his voice,
after the custom of the English, who
evidently believe that the only way of making
a foreigner understand is to start with the
assumption that he is deaf, " ve did see you
airlee dis morn from zee mast," pointing
aloft ; " and as you go fast we raise de steam,
but you ron away, which we did not like,
because we know if we lose you, anodaire we
might not find, and we discharge two gon.
Our want is dis. We are on an excursion,
geographic, exploration, for ze government of
ze French nation, and we sail be long among
de islands here and odaire places. Now,
messieurs, it is four days pass dat we meet
wit a boat and in it a spectacle distressing ;
two dead men and von dead woman, and a
leetel babes dat was alive. We keep de
babes and ze dares we sink in de sea. I
cannot tell ze nation dey belong to. Name
dere was none on ze boat, no tings in dere
pockets, no papaire ; von knife, a — vot you
call dat ze door open wit ?"

Key," said Fortescue.

"Yes, key, a watch, dat is all. Des tings
ve hov. Yell, vot ve do wit dis leetel babes?

Ve hov no woman — no lady. All are men.
But dat, messieurs, is not all. If presently
ve should be going to some port, den ve
might keep de babes ; but ve are here for
week and week ; possib ve might not see a
sheep for day and day ; dis vos our imagination
even ve sight you and so ve give ze
chase ; ve would have de leetel babes taken
away by some sheep dat is sailing to port.
Weel you take it ? Ze lady weel not refuse,"
and as he said this again, to the amusement
of the crew, the French lieutenant pulled off
his hat and gave Agatha a bow, perhaps
accompanying it with a leer ; for what
Frenchman can resist the impulses of his
profound self-belief in his killing graces ?

*'A rum yarn, sir," said Hiram to Fortescue.


I see their difficulty," answered the
clergy-man. "They will spend weeks in
cruising about these seas and in parts
where they are not likely to fall in with
ships. I think we should relieve them
of their care ; and the little waif may die
in their hands — only what sort of nursing
can z^'e give it?" His eye wandered to

VOL. III. H

Agatha, who was looking at the steamer,
whilst the Frenchman stroked the spikes
of his moustache, his arm across his breast,
examining the girl through his eyelashes
with his face bowed.

"I'm not a man to object to babies myself,"
said Stone, 'but seen' that ye're
got a obligation big enough for two arm-full
standing' close beside ye, sir," he looked
at Agatha, "I'd consider well, if I was you,
afore burdening' myself with the charge of
a infant."

There's notion unlucky, I suppose, in
coming' across a baby at sea?" said Hiram,
doubtfully and interrogatively, and in a loud
voice so that he might be heard by the
men.

Breeches would have been glad to answer
this, but as he was unable to recollect any
superstition under the particular head of
babies, he contented himself with looking
as if his mind held several dark recollections
but that he would rather not mention
them.

"How old is the child, sir?" asked Fortescue
of the lieutenant.

'about fifteen munt, monsieur."

*' Girl or boy ?"

'' Leetel boy."

The clergyman fell into deep thought.
Nothing could ever happen but that he would
accept it as an expression of God's meaning
with him which, whether intelligible or not,
was to be thought of in reference only to his
Maker's love and mercy. What wonderful
purpose lay in this strange encountering of a
tiny bairn in the mighty heart of the ocean ?
He felt a superstition come into him out of
the thing. It was not so much that his heart
was moved by the thought of the helplessness
and littleness of the motherless creature
plucked from the edge of a sea grave, as that
he was influenced by some monitory motion
of his spirit urging him to quick decision, as
though there were in him a vision deeper
than his own soul knew of, that saw beyond
what had come and was rendering instinct
imperious.

'' Forgive me for detaining you," he said
to the lieutenant, '' I wish first to consult
with this lady."

The Frenchman bowed, and Stone and

Hiram, seeing by the curate's manner that
however he decided it would be without
reference to them, dropped their eager aspect
as of men ready to give an opinion, and
settled themselves into a cool posture of waiting,
with many glances from the lieutenant to
his steamer.

'* Agatha, my darling," he said, **do you
understand what has passed ?"

"Oh, yes."

"If we receive the little baby will you see
to it, attend to It, care for It ?"

I should love to do so," she answered,
gently, speaking with a singular tenderness
in her eyes. " It will find me occupation,
and there will be always something to think
of. I need that. It is cruel to find nothing
to fix the thoughts upon."

"It will give you trouble, Agatha; it Is
a very young baby — fifteen months old,,
only."

Poor darling !"

It will have to sleep In your cabin ; it
will require your constant attention."

"It Is that I need," she exclaimed, with
a tremble in her voice and a look like

sorrow in one who is dumb passing over
her face.

"Be it so," he exclaimed. 'the hand
of God is in this," and he paused with a
hope or fancy in him that made him tremble
as if it were a dim revealment, though in an
instant he perceived it was one of those pious
impositions the brain deceives the heart with
when desire is passionate and ever searching
for auguries. He turned to the Frenchman,
who continued to stroke his moustache and
to furtively study Agatha.

"Sir," said he, "we shall be glad to
receive the child."

Another grumbling sort of chuckle rose
behind the little Frenchman from the crew
as he stooped low with his hat to the deck
almost.

"You are ver good, sire," he exclaimed,
and running to the side he called out to
his boat's crew, "Go, my infants, and fetch
le petit. I stop here till you return." He
may have added something else — perhaps
winked or made a knowing grimace behind
his moustache — for "his infants," as he called
the swarthy, uncouth, untidy boat's crew,

shoved off In a violent hurry and pulled
away to windward as if rowing for a wager.

Fortescue asked him into the cabin to
take wine, but he declined with a very
polite face, all the while looking about him
with great curiosity, more especially at
Agatha, by whom he seemed both bewildered
and fascinated.

You have ver nice leetel sheep here,
sire," said he to Fortescue, whom he
guessed to be the owner by his having
for himself decided about the baby, and
approaching him that he might also draw
closer to Agatha. "You are takin' your
plaisirs in her ? And ze lady ?''

The lady was shipwrecked ; we searched
for and have found her and are conveying
her home," answered Fortescue.

Aha !" cried the lieutenant, with a long
breath that whistled through his teeth, " dea
all explain himself Dat why you here. My
capitaine say, 'What dat beetle sheep do here,
hein ?' Now I can explain him. Sheep-wreck
! Ha, Ha! I hope, mam'selle, your
offering' vas not ver great .'^" giving her a bow.

It might have been the little creature's

Stature, or the vanity and self-assurance
expressed in his face, with the ends of his
moustache standing out past his cheeks Hke
marhn-spikes — and there was nothing more
nautical than that to be found in this vulgar
ornamentation of the sailor — or the grins of
the men which wrinkled their chocolate skins
to every bow or grimace this lieutenant made
indeed, they might have passed for a street
mob watching a monkey — that broke in upon
Agatha's gravity ; she burst into a laugh, and
then nervousness mastering her, she continued
to laugh with a note of hysteria in her mirth,
blushing for her merriment, too, and with a
look of helpless shame, amid the sparkling in
her eyes, that did undoubtedly make her face
a lovely puzzle to monsieur's surprised and
somewhat indignant stare.

Sire," said he, turning to Fortescue,
I am happen to know by ze heyday's
amusement dat her offering have not been
ver great," and with that he folded his arms
after the style of the great Napoleon, and
fixed a scowling gaze upon the steamer.

It was not a thing to bother over, and
Fortescue was in no mood to relate to this

Stranger the story of Agatha's shipwreck
and the mental blow that had befallen her,
welch any approach to an apology for her
laughter would have involved. Perhaps
he wondered that the little lieutenant had
not eyes for the truth ; but a life spent in
the cure of village souls must necessarily
leave a man's theory of human conceit imperfect,
spite of neighbouring squires and
here and there a parson's wife. Hiram,
however, on the other hand, grew nervous.

Bill," he muttered to old Stone, " 'won't
do to let the little chap sulk. Suppose when
he eyes back he should tell 'em he's been
insulted. Them there Frenchmen are like
what they make grog of — spirits o' wine.
Fire 'em, and they're alight all over !" So
saying, he convulsed his gaunt and yellow
face into a smile, and stepped up to the
Frenchman. '' Beg pardon, monster ; that
there's a fine craft o' yours, sir."

'' Varee."

Long from home, sir ?"

Four munt."

Ah, then you'll have no more noon than
we have. Fine country yours, sir. I knows

Belong and I knows Callyy, an' I was once
ashore off Cape Levi and pretty nigh
drownded."

The Frenchman said, '' Hum," not understanding
; then, screwing up his eyes at
Hiram, he said, "You are capitaine, eh?"

Yes, sir."

'* Sees it true dat lady dere was sheep-wreck
?"

Hiram nodded.

'' English ?"

Hiram nodded again.

*'Vy she laugh at me?" inquired the
Frenchman, rearing his little figure whilst
he looked up into Hiram's face, in a manner
to remind one of the sketch of the cock
threatening to spring at the horse for having
tossed his nosebag.

'why," said Hiram in a whisper, "she
ain't quite right in her mind — she's lost what
they calls a faculty," and he grinned, in
sympathy with the start the little Frenchman
gave, and the look of relieved conceit
that softened down his scowl.

''Ha!" exclaimed the lieutenant, "I am
glad. For me," smiting his little bosom with

his little fist, " I do not like ze ridicule," and
that he had forgiven Agatha on the spot it
was easy for Hiram to see by the ogling and
leering glance the manikin levelled at her.
Weeks wanted nothing better. His apprehension
of the little Frenchman's resentment
faded, and with it his fear of the consequences
which he had gone so far as to
suppose might take the shape of a parting
cannon-ball when the schooners shifted their
helm for their separate courses, and a started
butt such as had sent old Stone's snow to the
bottom, and which might force them into
some barbarous port with all hands half dead
with pumping. It would be suspected that
Hiram was imaginative; in reality he was
only practical ; very anxious to get home,
and oppressed with the old maritime conviction
that all foreigners are cowards at sea
and capable of the lowest meanness.

It was past one. The breeze was blowing
radiant and warm, for the masses of vapour
had thinned with the shift. They travelled
in pearl-coloured tufts along the path of the
gentle and humming trade. The sun burnt
steadily with a power in his mirroring that

seemed to heap the water up in flashing,
silver, liquid, shining ore, weltering to its own
ardent throbbing. All this while the boat
remained alongside the steamer, rising and
falling just astern of some gangway-steps
that had been dropped over the side, and the
little lieutenant had broken with impatience
from the further soothing speech Hiram had
begun, and had taken one or two turns with
arms tightly folded and his shoulders nearly
up to his ears, when he suddenly exclaimed,
'" Enfiii P' As he spoke, a man was seen
ascending the ladder against the schooner's
side with a little bundle in his arms. The
bowman pulled the boat to the steps, and the
man entered.

*' Here he is, sir," exclaimed Stone ta
Fortescue, "smaller in quantity than a
sailor's shirt rolled up in a handkerchief,
and yet with such brains in him may be
that whose a-going' to say the day mayn't
come when he'll be able to take a line-battle
ship into action, and get a pillar put
up for him with his name writ on the foot
of it ? I dunno how it is, I'm sure, but I
never yet could look at a baby without somehow

feelln' that he snowed more than I do,
and that if he could speak, the first thing
he'd say 'ud be, ' Why, Stone, you old fool !
Bin a-livin' all these years and not know
more than what ye're got in yer head ?
Git out! Here am I, fresh, never to my
knowledge was in a church in my life, and
yet I could tell ye more about where ye're
bound to and where ye comes from than
we'd be able to find out if you was to tarn
to and think for three blooming' centuries.'
No want of respect for religion in them
there ideas, I hope, sir ?"

*' No, Mr. Stone," answered Fortescue,
gently, " we must all be as lite children,
you know before we can enter the port
that we are sailing for."

Stone looked gratified. Hiram said, "It's
not everything as Bill says that's to my taste,
hut I like his notion of a baby knowing
modern a man. Pity the like of them notions
aren't more discoursed about at meetings,
stead of always sending' the plate round, an'
the parson reading' and pretending' as if he
wasn't thinking of what folks was putting' in.
It's all very well for people to say as a man's

heart lies in his purse, and that the way to
test a feller is to see what he'll give, but my
idea is that if a man had notion in his purse
but his heart he wouldn't be troubled. Xow
then, lads, look out for the boat. Stand by
with a line in case that it's wanted."

The Frenchman strutted to the gangway
and was followed by Fortescue and Agatha,
Weeks and Stone. The men clambered onto
the rail to see. Never did a baby excite
more curiosity. Old Breeches had hinted
that in all probability the infant wouldn't
prove natural. "Stand by, bullies I See if it
ain't of a piece with the rest o' this voyage ;
sorter spiritual, for that's the word we've
been taught. 'Sides, boys, 'ain't wholesome
for a job like this to come through Crappoos.
They hadn't got Englishmen's domestic feelings,
and if I'd bin the parson I'd ha' left the
young 'un on their hands with the chance of
its educating the ship's company in moral
feeling's ready again they gits home."

A bearded French man-of-warsman, a half-caste,
smiling absurdly, with sidelong half-ashamed
peeps out of the corners of his eyes
at the row of British grinning visages decorating

the schooner's bulwarks like the ornaments
on an area-rail, stepped on board,
holding the baby with the sprawling posture
of hand and arm peculiar in seamen when
labouring under a sense of their awkwardness.
The little creature was a fair-haired baby
boy of about the age the French lieutenant
had named. It would indeed be difficult
to determine a nationality for an infant so
young, but if he were not English you would
have known at all events his parents did
not 'belong" to regions to the south of
the English Channel parallels. English he
looked, nor could you have said there was
anything of Denmark or Norway or Sweden
in the pretty tiny face ; whilst as to his being
German, why, as Hiram afterwards said,
"His ugliness would ha' been the same as
saying' ' yaw ' to ye ; yer couldn't ha' bin
mistook." It was a most perfect baby face,
certainly, thin indeed and pale, dark blue
eyes, and amber-coloured hair curling prettily
under a little red cap. He had been crying,
tears still sparkled on his cheeks, but the
change from the boat to the deck of the
schooner arrested his grief or alarm ; he sat

up in the sailor's arms, gazing about him
with his under-lip sucked in and his breath
shortened ready for further tears, till the
sight of old Breeches and the others, staring,
frightened him ; he made one of those lamentable
faces of drawn-down mouths and eyes
full of misery with which babies are wont
to preface their fits of weeping ; but just at
that moment,, catching sight of Agatha, he
cried out '' Mamma ! mamma !" extending his
hands towards her, with a leaping forward
that came pretty near to tossing him out of
the seaman's arms, and roaring at the top
of his little pipes. The girl instantly took
him. One saw the marvellous maternal
instinct In the yearning, soothing manner of
her as she kissed him and held him to her
bosom. The touch of a woman's hand, the
heave of a woman's breast, the warmth and
softness of a woman's lips, were as magic ; the
baby instantly ceased crying and lay still and
comforted In her arms, intently staring with
his blue eyes afloat with tears at the sweet
and gentle and blushing face that overhung
him.

Fortescue turned aside a moment with a

quick lifting of his glance to God. The heart
prays swiftly, and in a breath a man can send
a long wordless message of hope and faith to
heaven. The French lieutenant was moved.

'' It is ver pretty," said he. " Mam'selle
be ze mainan to perfection."

She raised her eyes from the baby's face
to his with a smile which, finding no derision
in it, he possibly accepted as a tribute to his
manly appearance, for he instantly looked
happy, and one listened to hear him hum
some gay tune.

Have ye brought the things the officer
spoke of as having' been found in the pockets
of the dead people in the boat," said Hiram
to the half-caste.

The fellow shook his head and showed his
teeth with what Breeches called a " no 
" shrug of the shoulders. The lieutenant,
understanding the question, spoke to
the man in French, who at once pulled out
of his shirt a knife, an old silver watch
with a water-discoloured riband attached, a
couple of keys and a short black clay tobacco
pipe.

Dat is all, messieurs," said the lieutenant.

"Was there notion In writing — no letters
notion in the clothes worn with a name
on it?" cried Hiram.

'nothings. Ze bodies was half-dressed —
ze escape most have been on ze instant ; ve

look veil for a name, for any sign, but "

and up went the Frenchman's shoulders.
Then with a glance at the steamer he said,
Dere is nothings more, messieurs, I think.
In ze name of my capitaine, shenelmen, I
tank you for takin' ze leetel babes." And
bowing low, first to Agatha, then to Mr.
Fortescue, and then to Hiram, the lieutenant
nimbly went to the gangway, and, followed
by the half-caste, dropped over the side,
evidently delighted with the successful result
of his mission, and burning for the ardent
felicitations he would receive from his shipmates
in the steamer.

Round with that torps'1-yard, lads,"
bawled Hiram. '' Down main tack. Set the
flying-jib. 'Loft, one o' ye, and loose the tors
Bill, she'll take all you can give
her. This here parley-wooing must be made
up for, so you can set stun sails and keep
her head off for the Cape o' Good Hope."

VOL. III. I

And he turned to look at the baby who
was sitting erect on Agatha's knee, and who,
with wide-open, intensely earnest eyes fixed
on the golden tresses its little fists had
grasped, was tugging at Agatha's hair, whilst
Mr. Fortescue overhung the bairn with an
expression of deep compassion in his face.

THE BABY IS FED.

There is a mysterious power in the deep
that gives to the meanest thing it tosses upon
its vast unquiet breast an interest and
solemnity it would be impossible to find in
the same degree in objects of high significance
ashore. A broken oar, a piece of black, weed-covered
timber, a bit of board with a letter or
two left upon it, will win the eye and fire the
fancy as it passes by, whirling smooth into
the ship's wake, or coming and going amid
the yeasty folds of the leaping surges ; not
more because it may be a hint of disaster, the
sordid memorial of great human despair, than
because the spirit of the huge solitude, the
immense desolation, the immeasurable length
and breadth of the ocean is in it, like a quickening
by nature of things which grow on
land ; so that all that she has of solemnity, of

secrecy, of austere mockery the sea gives toman's
most unimportant relics ; using them to
another disdainful purpose yet, that is, of
making them contrasts for her mightiness.
This, to its highest, wildest, most startling
extent, is felt by the seawater when the ocean
yields up a living human being out of her
deepest solitude. The baby, seated on
Agatha's lap, was scarcely to be thought of
but in the most prosaic literal light, as an
ocean waif that had been snatched from
death and was now to be nursed and cared
for, whilst the French lieutenant was grinning
and flourishing near him and whilst there
was a background of hairy, weather-coloured
faces to put coarseness and greatness into
thought, with the slow movements of their
jaws upon the concealed quids, and the sour,,
or sympathetic, or wondering, or indifferent
staring of their eyes. But the scene had
changed ; the crew were running about
making sail ; the schooner had started afresh,
and with leaning stem was floating with a
long-drawn, gushing sweeping of her whole
hull from surge to surge, whitening each
hollow as it drew up from under her keel, to

the blue sparkles to starboard where the
sunshine lay in a glorious throbbing. Already
the steamer had hoisted her boat and was
breaking aloft into expanses of softly shining
cloths with a mere expiring filtering of blue
smoke from her raking funnel as, obedient
to the impulse of her canvas, she shaded
round with her head to the north-east, stun-sails
fluttering to the weather yard-arms and
the tricolour dipping a grateful farewell,
which old Stone answered with a like
salutation.

Now, the solitariness of the tiny human
soul, all that had come into the babe out of
the magic within the amusive and deceptive
girdle of the waters, could be felt, pitied,
wondered at, and that the deeper impulses it
furnished were not appreciable only by such
a mind as Fortescue's, you would have
known by looking at Hiram and marking
a tenderness in his protruding eyes that
gave a comeliness to his long, gaunt, yellow
visage, such as will often come to downright
ugliness when thought Is eloquent and
pure.

'* If It ain't the watch, ]Mr. Fortescue,"

said he, '* I dunno, I'm sure, what else there
is among the articles found on the bodies to
identify this poor little chap when we gits
him ashore ; in which case life's be as this
here ocean's bin to him — a big loneliness."

'' Poor innocent !" exclaimed Fortescue,.
stroking the little fellow's cheek. " Old
Ocean's caprices are strange. The rage
that wrecks a stout ship and destroys the
lives in her, spares this morsel of fragility !"

'say, sir," said Hiram, "just as I've seen
a butterfly safe and sound in the calm heart
of a resolving tempest. What fine eyes
he has ! And don't he show the weevil propensities
of a miser by keeping' hold with
both fifties of the gold a-streamin' from the
lady's head ?"

Agatha laughed and kissed the child.
''He is a real darling," she exclaimed. 'T
shall make him some pretty frocks, and then
he will look beautiful. See, Mr. Fortescue,
how oddly those Frenchmen have dressed
him ! This strange thing on his head must
be the top part of a man's nightcap, and
they divided a mitten and stitched the sides
together to serve as a pair of socks. Oh!"

she added, with a sweet smile, and causing
the Httle creature to chuckle with the fat
notes of a pleased baby by starting him
on a ride with a movement of her knee,
'' what is your name ? And as you cannot
tell us, what shall we call you? Malcolm
Hope ? That will be taking one name
from you, Mr. Fortescue, and one from your
schooner."

"Yes — Malcolm Hope — nothing could be
better — for the present at all events," said the
clergyman, smiling at her light laugh, but
deeply moved by her animation.

It was a liveliness full of womanly tenderness,
with a touch of archness that might have
sprung from her child-like simplicity of delight
in the toy that had been given her ; but such
as it was, rendered fascinating by her beauty,
her wild, island, careless manner, it was not
the gaiety of the Agatha of Wyloe. It smote
him with a sense of insincerity ; it affected
him as a piece of acting ; yet, God knows,
the poor fellow was sensible it was real
enough, and seemingly artificial only because
her impaired mind qualified the spirituality
that made all that she formerly thought,

said, and did, rich with sensibility, lovely
and lovable with delightful emotion.

Hiram whispered in his ear, whilst with
his eye he feigned to direct the clergyman's
attention to the French steamer, '' Mr. Fortescue,
considering' she don't know ye an'
can't recall the past, it's too wonderful that
she should be able to tell us that the gear on
the child's head's half a man's nightcap and
the socks a split mit — too wonderful, I says,
not to be took notice of. I beg your mind toit,
sir, skin' your pardon."

The clergyman responded by inclining his
head. Here the baby let go Agatha's hair
and began to cry.

"He may be hungry," said Fortescue.

The girl looked blankly and with a
frightened face at the curate.

"Oh, my poor memory!" she cried. "I
never thought he would want to eat ; what
are we to give him .^" And now it was to be
seen how absolutely recollection was at fault.
The picture at that Instant was one to dwell
upon the mind ; baby crying, tears showering
down his cheeks, inimitable misery expressed
in the corners of his mouth, his blue eyes

shining through their sorrow Hke violets in
crystal, and Agatha glancing from him to
Fortescue and Weeks in a dramatic posture
of wild anxiety, a ceaseless, sheen trembling
down her hair from the blowing of the wind,
and her colour dimming to the distress that
was quivering In her lip till you looked for a
tear in the pure softness of her eyes. Under
a high and square press of canvas the
schooner was snoring through the water like
a wounded dolphin chased by its mates,
shadows swung along the decks with every
yearning reel from and to the sun, and the
cloths on gaff and yard, flashed up by the
luminary, had a whiteness that made the
fleece of the clouds dingy as they sailed by
overhead, along a blue that the noon-tide
splendour rendered argentine from where the
sun shone to the sea-line, undulating away on
the quarter where, like a waning star on the
north-east horizon, was the lessening lustre
of the Frenchman's canvas.

"What do babies eat?" said Hiram, looking
anxious. Stone came up as he said
this.

"Why, milk is what is chiefly given to

them, at this child's age, I believe; but we
have no milk," said Fortescue.

'got fowls, but ne'er a cow," exclaimed
Hiram, rubbing one eye hard with a knuckle.
'little boy got any teeth, miss?"

"Yes, a few," answered Agatha.

"Why, then," said Hiram, cheering up,
"he ought to be able to eat what we dew —
not so much of course, but the same wattles.
He can't hurt. I remember a man as had
had thirteen youngsters by two wives, an
experience stretching' over, well, I essay
it wouldn't be fur short of twenty-five year,
a-tellin' me that he always gave his little 'uns
meat when their teeth came. 'Twas nature's
way, he told me, of hinting' when they was
ripe for meat and could give up sops."

Fortescue shook his head. Meanwhile,
the baby had silenced himself by filling his
mouth with the fingers of his left hand.

Babies has two sets of teeth," said Stone;
"these there'll be the first lot, I allow."

The first lot, of course," answered Fortescue,
who knew that, but who nevertheless
felt exceedingly stupid and troubled.

"Then meat ain't intended by nature for

infants' stomachs till the second lot o' teeth
come," said Stone.

"What!" cried Hiram, "d'ye mean to say
babies has two sets o' teeth ?''

"Yes — sartine, one after the other," exclaimed
Stone.

Well, jiggered if weever I knew that
afore," exclaimed Hiram, and he drove his
hands into his pockets with an air that made
one see he understood he was an ignorant
man and meant to give no more advice.

Tell ye how I should feed him, miss,"
exclaimed old Stone, meeting Agatha's eyes,
tarn to an' powder up some white cabin
biscuit and make a kind o' gruel or pap of it
with warm water. That'll stay his young
stomach. Afterwards I'd have a fowl boiled,
and give him the gravy with a little o' the
meat cut up fine. He'll fill out at that,
ma'am. He'll be wanting a new westkit
every day."

Stone's face was a study as he thus spoke.
There was the sailor's half-shyness in him.,
with the grave earnestness of the simple,
literal mind when perfectly serious. Hiram
listened with an air of respect ; it was clear

he was impressed by Bill's knowledge of
babies and what was good for them to eat.
Mr. Stone's suggestions are capital,"
exclaimed Mr. Fortescue, much relieved ;
and the baby beginning to make faces again
and cry out in squally bursts of wailing,
through finding that there was nothing in
his fingers to appease his appetite, Agatha
carried him below to the cabin where Fortescue,
watched by Stone, made a mess of
sweet biscuit and water in a cup. The little
chap's hunger was great ; he seized the spoon
with his teeth and wrestled and wrangled
with it as though he would swallow it.
Stone, with a large grin of sympathy,
watched the operation of feeding him with
critical attention, but Agatha plied the
spoon so dexterously that he only once had
occasion to suggest that "a little slower,
miss, 'ud be better, as these here infants
are pretty nigh almost fuller o' wind than
they knows how to support ; an' your
yielding' to the hurry they're mostly in, when
hungry, is bound to aggravate their train'
complaint — an' train' it must be, Mr. Fortescue,
as anyone can tell by watching how

they shuts up their legs like telescopes when
the spasms seizes 'em. '

Almost immediately after he had been fed
the baby fell fast asleep. His head dropped
back on Agatha's arm. a beautiful serenity
entered the little face, a faint smile lurked
about the parted lips ; but though his slumber
was sound his eyes were not wholly closed,
and the dim gleam of blue behind the long
lashes made the countenance death-like with
its smile and its stillness.

"His poor mother'' sighed Fortescue,
gently, with an upward glance.

*ray, sir," said Stone, folding his arms
and looking down at the child, *god allows
a man but one mother in this world. 'Tis
hard he should ever make her suffer. Better
she should go whilst he's what that baby is,
for then she leaves an angel behind her, than
to keep on living' merely to see horns and a tail
grown' 'stead o' wings. Ah !" said he, with
a deep sigh, "a man's only got one mother,
but he never knows it till she's gone and he
looks back and recollects how he served her."

He rubbed his nose and seemed oppressed
with memory. Perhaps he was thinking of

the time when he ran away to sea, more to
vex his mother who opposed his wish than
because he Heed the Hfe, and came home a
few months after to find her in the churchyard.


A baby is a plaything you need practice
to know how to handle. One sees young
mothers looking at their first babies with a
sort of fear in their delight and worship, as
though nothing but the stern necessity to
hold and to nurse, could impel them to
accept the dreadful risk of touch. Most
girls will have these feelings when they get a
baby upon their knee, whether it is their own
or another's, and you saw a clear alarm enter
Agatha's face when the infant fell asleep :
she held herself motionless, she scarcely
breathed for fear of disturbing the boy.
After a few moments she whispered faintly,
*' Mr. Fortescue, why does not he close his
eyes? It looks very unnatural."

Fortescue thought so too, and glanced at
Stone, who, supposing he was expected to
answer, said : " Notion unnatural at all,
miss. Its a habit of young 'uns to keep
their eyelids a-liftin'. The reason is that ina

baby every thing's a-growin' so rapid
nothen'U keep together. That's why they
makes faces, and why their toes twitch."

Agatha seemed to accept this view, in her
childlike way, and presently, at the suggestion
of Fortescue, carried the baby into her cabin
and laid him in her bunk. She was exceedingly
nervous, handled the child as if he
were some vase or fragile ornament of inestimable
value and capable of being shivered
into twenty thousand atoms by a fall ; yet the
sweetness and love in her nature was affectingly
visible in her gentleness and tenderness,
and when she had placed the little one on
"her bed and he, after a start and a long sigh,
had fallen into deep sleep again, she stood
with wet eyes and her hand to her forehead
watching him, Fortescue at her side.

'' Does your head pain you, Agatha.-^'

'* No," with a light forced smile, and she
let fall her hand.

"What do you see in this baby, my
darling, to make you weep ?" he asked, with
his love shrinking from the question, whilst
his will — his eagerness to test her — forced the
inquiry from his lips.

She was silent for some moments, and
then said in a low voice, " He is alone."

"Yes, he is alone, in one sense, yet we
know not ; we cannot be sure. If his
parents were those found dead in the boat
he is an orphan, and in that way he is alone.
But he has a Father in heaven, my beloved ;
it is that which makes human loneliness impossible,
otherwise the world would be full
of lonely people, the lonelier even, some of
them, for their very associations of home, of
friends !" He met her tearful glance, repressing
a bitter sigh.

"His is a loneliness that makes me
feel mine," she said. " I know I am
alone ."

'' No !" he cried.

"I cannot explain!" she continued. "Sometimes
a thought comes like a perception, but
passes ; it is as though I had been taken by
the shoulder and thrust out into the darkness.
Oh, it is so ! I am alone. Oh! more,
oh ! more alone than he is !" She pointed
to the baby and again raised her hand with
a wild gesture to her forehead, and held it
pressed there.

He grasped her idle hand, and, checking
the passion in him till his voice quivered to
the restraint, he said, "Agatha, cannot you
realise that you are loved ? You have memory
to recollect what is now said to you. what
now befalls you. Reason to yourself thus:
Mr. Fortescue, who holds my hand, tells me
that we were engaged to be married — still
are — that I shall be his wife when we arrive
in England — that I loved him dearly, do still
dearly love him. though over the mirror of
my heart there has come a film that conceals,
but does not obliterate, the reflections in it,
that he loves me passionately, that, directed
by God, he has sought and found me and
delivered me from a lamentable fate, a shocking
desolation. Reason thus, my own; as
Heaven is truth, so are my words. You are
following what I am saying — my loved one !
Reason thus — reason as I bid you, feel, though
you may not fully understand, that you are
mine — that you are my Agatha — my betrothed
— my only love as I am yours I The
thought will soothe you, you will know that
you are not alone, and 'twill give you heart
and patience to wait with me for the dawn

VOL. III. K

that must come — for the dawn, my darling,
that must come !"

She had been watching him under the
hand she held to her forehead. When he
ceased she covered her eyes with it and said,
'' I will do what you wish. I shall be able to
remember what you say. And I will seek
heart and patience In it."

The Icy mechanically of this answer,
coming out of sheer incapacity to understand
him as he endeavoured to render himself
understood, so affected him that he dared
not speak lest his voice should break into
inarticulate sobs. He raised her hand to his
lips and let it gently fall, and turned to the
child, concealing his face. These were but
early times, he knew. It was but yesterday
that he had found her ; God alone knew what
mio^ht need to qto to the vitalisinor of her
dormant faculty, if Indeed it was a slumber
from which an awakening was possible ; but
for all that, It was like to craze his brains to
find his appeals falling dead from her intelligence
which they could not penetrate, to seethe
life and health and beauty in her and
know that a sudden anp^ulsh of terror, like

a wizard with his wand, had banished them
and her heart's love to a sphere outside his
own existence, so far as she had knowledge
of it. It was as though he should have
wasted his soul in passionate yearnings for
her throughout the voyage, and arriving at
the island at last, have found her enchanted
into stone. It was bitterer even than that ;
for the stone would have been lifeless, it
would not have innocently mocked the sacred
and beautiful devotion of the man by the
lifting of soft grey eyes in whose sweetness
lay no knowledge of him, by speech cruel as
the echo of tones which had been full of his
name and of her love for him, by smiles and
laughter sadder to him than her tears,
though he knew them to flow from the dim,
mysterious sorrow and the vague sense of
loss in her.

He turned presently. "The little one
sleeps well, Agatha."

'eyes," she answered, with no further
trace of grief in her face than a look of
soberness.

'' I hope the care of him may not greatly
tax you. We must get a kind of cradle or

little bedstead made, so that in the daytime
he can sleep on deck, and be close to your
hand at night."

'that will be pretty — the little, little
fellow ! And I will make him clothes.
May I take what I need ?" with a glance
at the large box which contained her apparel.


Whatever you require. There are
plenty of needles and thread. I think
you will find all you need."

'' Mr. Fortescue, beg pardon, sir," said
Hiram, in a hoarse whisper outside, "but
dinner's on the table, and it's about time
stew.

THE BLINDNESS OF THE MIND.

You will often get long spells of glorious
weather in the Indian Ocean on the Madagascar
parallels and below the tropic of
Capricorn to where the trade fails. It is
always best of course to be sailing to the
southward, for then every day finds a sweeter
freshness for the winds and for the atmosphere
of the night that follows, and takes out
of the sunlight something of that dazzling
rashness of glare that further northwards
comes down upon the sickly swell, to steam
up off it in a fog-like yellowness of scorching
effulgence into which the jibbooms go writhing
like snakes whilst the lengths of black
yards are tremulous in it, and vapour creeps
up from all about with a stink of paint and
oil till you are fit to cast yourself into the
slimy sea for sheer loathing.

The breeze did wonders for the Golden
Hope's latitude. She had such a chance
as Hiram would have prayed for. There
was steady weight in the wind, a long, lights
beam swell that swung her as she ran ; all
cloths she had she could and did show, and
you quitted the deck at night only to witness
the same sight next morning — square-sail,
topgallant-sail and three stun sails, jibs,,
staysail, huge mainsail, foresail, and topsails
all doing their work, obscuring at night a
great expanse of the glittering dust of the
heavens with their glooming surfaces, or
leaning beautiful, bland, star-like, to the
morning azure where spaces of full-bosomed
liquid sapphire flowed into lagoons of lighter
blue, with wings of pearly vapour steadfastly
sailing onwards down the dyes in the airy
cerulean acclivity, like ships passing over a
sea streaked with tints and melting hue into
hue from the movements of currents or the
gliding of cloud-shadows.

Life on board had the same 
for all excepting Fortescue. Such
superstitions as the crew may have felt had
gone away over the side into nothingness

along with their tobacco smoke. Archer had
put them right ; as a fine seaman, who had
nothing professionally to learn from any man
among them, who was as versed In fore and
aft seamanship as he was accomplished In the
more complicated mysteries of the full-rigged
ship, who had held a post of command,
honour, and responsibility on board a great
Indiamen, why, he easily headed all hands,
unknowing that he did so, and whatever he
said about tailoring, and even other matters,
in his careless, sagacious way, was mostly
accepted — even by the cook — as the views of
a man who argued as If he always knew what
he was talking about. He admitted the
wonderfulness of the clergyman's vision, but
he knew so many cases of verified dreams,
not less remarkable because they were less
elaborate, that through hearing him converse
old Breeches became a convert.

'there must be something' in a man's
dreaming', mates," he said, "and I'm a-going' to
believe In dreams. Why, see here : suppose
as I should dream that there was a bagfull o'
governs stowed away in a chilly easily
found by the picture' as was put before me in

the wislon ; what a blooming fool I should
think myself after wards if I was to say, ' No,
it's only a dream ; there's notion in a dream,'
and I should tell a man what I'd seen in my
sleep and he should go, unbeknown to me,
and find the money."

In the same way Archer brought the
simple-hearted fellows to understand that
sleep-walking and the operation of memory
in somnambulism were not to be considered
as indicating anything ghostly or unnatural
in the victims of such habits ; and by telling
them about Miss Fox's behaviour after the
wreck, and explaining to them how, in his
opinion, it was that her old beauty came
back to her, and more health than she had
enjoyed (from all accounts) before leaving
England — for it must be said here that when
the cook heard that Agatha had sailed in bad
health, but that shipwreck made her feel
better, and that she ended in becoming
wonderfully well on the island, "Jest a place,
lads, where we'd think a rat 'ud pine away,"
he began to talk of miracles, and to hint that
there must be more than something ordinary
and proper in a woman who could appear to

a man on the other side of the world in a
dream, and get health and spirits out of
being cast away — I say, by Archer talking to
the men about these things, it ended in the
crew casting adrift their foolish fancies, and
thinking and speaking of the girl they were
carrying home as a young lady who had
undergone a dreadful marine experience, and
had come out of it with faculties stupefied by
suffering.

This sensible view they took pretty easily,
spite of the foreboding head-shaking, and " I
know better " looks of the mule of a cook,
who was the last man to agree to it, and they
were unconsciously helped by Agatha herself,
who seemed to come upon them with another
individuality altogether, when, on the third
afternoon after leaving the island, she arrived
on deck with the baby in her arms, her beautiful
shining hair coiled soberly away upon her
head that was crowned with an almost new-straw
hat of wide brim, which old Stone, with
a purple blush, had offered her, after passing
a long watch on deck in agitated considerations
whether if he named and produced this
hat the act would not be regarded as a piece

of impertinence, though all the while feeling-sure
that the sealskin cap was tormenting
hot to wear and quite likely by its weight to
keep her memory weak.

The hat proved the one thing needful ;.
she received It with delight, and old Stone
fell into a posture of transport when, with
her sweet smile, she lightly placed it on the
auburn tresses her lover had helped her to
wind about her head, and turned to the old
man for his approval. What Imaginable
head-gear is there — from the ghastly cave
out of which the excellent Sister of Charity
peers, to the bonnet that Is smaller than a
man's hand — which a beautiful face will not
lend a witchery to ?

''Ah!" said Stone, with a rousing sigh,
I bought that there hat, Mr. Fortescue,
in th' highway, off a Jew as asked six
shilling' for It and took two. If he was to
see it now he'd go an' make his fortune
right off by setting up a shop in the West
H'end, and selling' of them hats to the females
of the nobility as the most ornamental and
improving things In that line ever introduced
Into Europe."

The crew found her attractions strictly
within their conceptions of natural things
when she presented herself with her hair
dressed instead of down her back, where
it had rendered her beauty wild in the
sight of the mariners, with the long, windy
flowing of its shining thicknesses ; and they
understood her the better for old Stone's hat;
they instantly twigged the nautical cut of it,
and accepted it on her as a wide compliment
to the profession of the forecastle.

Xothen unnatural there now, anyway,
Mickey," said Goldsmith, with a grin at the
cook, who stood with his head out of the
caboose, mopping his streaming face and
looking aft.

'' Well, perhaps not," answered the cook,
acidly.

"Tarn to and set her again upon the
island, and I dunno, if I was asked, if I'd
take a fortnight to make up my mind to pine
her."

*' Well, I don't repose you would," said the
cook.

'' For, though I'm no longer a young gent,
I preserves the feeling's of a man," continued

Goldsmith, smiting his naked breast, 'rand
onHke Bill Breeches, who's got no taste, I'm
always admiring' what strikes my nat'ral ideas
of female loveliness as been' most up to the
knocker."

Saying which, he winked upon the cook
who, with his gaze stedfastly fixed aft, said,
'' Well, in that there nautical hat I ain't a
going' to say she's not up to the knocker."

She passed her time in making clothes for
the baby, in washing, tending, looking after
him. She loved the lonesome little creature
quickly, and there is no doubt her heart went
to him soon, not more because he had a
prettiness of face and tricks that accentuated
his natural appeal to her maternal instincts asa
woman than because his case seemed like
hers. He was alone, as she felt herself to be,
his brief past of a few months would be a
darkness in him that there was no mother's
memory to illumine, as hers was a blackness
of years, with interests, passions, associations
hidden in it never to be disclosed to her, as
she often thought when, with her forehead
leaning on her hand, she would secretly gaze
.at Fortescue or follow him about the deck

with eyes hardened out of their softness into-bitter,
troubled bewilderment.

Amongst them the men, on hearing that it
was wanted, "knocked up," as they called ita
very comfortable wooden crib for the baby;
a pillow or two made a good mattress, and
in this contrivance the little fellow slept at
night beside Agatha's bunk, whilst, the
weather keeping very fine, it would be
brought on deck by day for the boy to snooze
in or sit up in and play with the toys some of
the crew made for him. It was natural that
all hands should soon grow fond of him.
You would see Duck, or Goldsmith, or old
Breeches, after having been relieved at the
helm and walking forward, stop to look at the
little one if he lay sleeping, or to talk to him
if he was awake. What was best and truest
in these sea-dogs you'd find in their faces at
such times. The beautiful calmness, the tranquillity,
with the soft light of a delicate smile
upon it, they saw in the sleeping child was
like a beneficent impulse to them, and it was
a sort of miracle in Its way to observe the
habitual sourness of Bill Breeches' expression
melting into a rough, salt tenderness, when

noiselessly and almost breathlessly he would
peer at the slumbering boy under the little
awning that was stretched over the crib — -
establishing the most amazing contrast in life
by the juxtaposition of his knotted and
wrinkled and discoloured countenance, that
might have been carved out of a junk of
salted horse, with the marble-like features of
the baby ; or, when finding him awake, he
would ask him how he felt and exhibit the
most emotional interest in the rude rag doll
or much ruder horse, which the child would
invite him to admire by frenzied clutching at,
or in the direction of, the objects and by
signs and sounds of a character quite untranslatable.


D'ye know, Hiram," said Stone, " I
rather like the way old Bill notices the baby.
I fancy If it wasn't that he thought he was
been' watched he'd make more of the infant.
It's nat'ral. It ain't put on. But who'd ha'
supposed It of Bill ? To think of him a-takin'
to a baby is like conceiving' of an old whale
offering' of Its services as a monthly ness to a
young grampus in a interesting situation."

Bill's been knocking' about in all parts for

SO many years," rejoined Hiram, 'that if it
wasn't that there was notion in the 'pression
of his h'eye when he fixes it on the kid to
make one fanciful, I might conclude that his
liken' for the child was a matter o' conscience."

*' As hows" said Stone.

"Well," answered Hiram, "I once knew
an old sailor as was noted for his affection
for Jews. This was reckoned so queer that
all sorts of guesses was made to get at the
reason. If he was cheated by a Christian
he'd fly into a fearful passion, but if a Jew
choused him he'd say notion. Well, it
turned out that he'd been one of a shipwrecked
crew adrift in a boat along with a
H 'Israelite that was a passenger ; they cast
lots and eat up the Jew. It wur superstition,
of course ; but he'd afterwards own he must
ha' swallowed some o' the prejudices of that
race along with the Hebrew passenger, for
though he remained a Method, which wur
his native religion, he never could look a
Jew in the face without the feeling's of a
brother."

'rand you mean to say " said Stone.

"Well, ye know. Bill's knocked about, and

babies aren't so scarce, but that in thirty or
forty year o' seafaring', Breeches may have
been shipmates with one."

You do not go to sea for sentiment ; yet
Hiram, who could not understand softness
in the forecastle hand, was always quick
himself to yield to the influence of the
baby's innocent, flower-like eyes, his smiles,
his tears, his beauty in sleep.

'' After all, sir," he once said to Fortescue,
after a long look at the child, and speaking
with a half aside at Agatha, '' there's a something'
wonderful civilising about a baby. I
never was married myself, and don't want to,
an' have so little acquaintance with babies
that there's ne'er a man as could know
less about 'em. Yet I can understand, by
noticing the sort of homeliness that little
chap has brought to the schooner, why
parties as marries don't find their home
comfortable an' shipshape until there's a
young un a-singing out in it. 'Ain't only
his voice ; there's the confusion and mess
he brings along with him, clothes a-waiting,
pair of shoes half as big as a man's thumb
on one cheer, pair of small socks on another

cheer, slave o' milk in the air and a smell o*
physic atop of it. When ye enters a house
where there's a baby ye feel at liberty to
draw out your pipe and smoke, for it's like
been' at home ; the people are kinder, they
makes more room and 'romance for a man,
the baby's thawed the frost out, and the
furnished looks as if it was used to been'
sot upon. But the house where the baby
ain't yet come — well, I'll tell yer, sir, I don't
care how cheap coals is, but all the blazing'
fires married parties can keep up isn't going
to give out one touch of the warmth ye'll get
from an infant's smile — ay," he added, energetically,
"even when it's produced by wind."

Having delivered this speech he gazed
first at Agatha, then at Fortescue, and finally
at the baby, with an expression of grave
satisfaction, which was improved into a slow,
but steadily expanding smile by the clergyman's
assurance that his sentiments did him
honour.

But meanwhile, though day after day was
passing, the girl made no sign. Memory remained
frozen, black, motionless. No light
Fortescue flung upon it found reflection.

VOL. III. L

Often he would essay — faintly, indeed, for
there always seemed a cruelty in it to his love
to touch some chord the mere vibration of
which should bring intelligent pensiveness,
the wistfulness of even dimmest recollection
to her face, but unavailingly. The memory
he sought stared blankly at him from her
eyes ; a little pertinacity on his part would
cause her to droop her head, to press her
brow, to weep silently, and these were things
which always broke him down and filled him
with bitter self-reproaches.

And yet, as the days passed on, he began
to see very clearly that her liking for him
increased. She was won by his devotion,
by his anxiety. It would be impossible to
say decisively of one in her mental condition
that though it was mere bewilderment
which his references to their being
betrothed, to her becoming his wife on
their arrival home, to their having been
and still being impassioned lovers, excited
in her, she was not affected by them as
ideas which were meaningless to her in
respect of the past, but which she could
understand as words and thoughts to the

extent of her comprehension this side her
memory. Who could pronounce ? Figure
yourself incapable of recollecting a single
circumstance of your life past a given
period. If you were told that such and
such were the conditions of your existence,
preceding the loss of your memory, you
could understand the meaning of the sentences
pronounced without finding in them
the intelligibility they would possess if you
could associate them with, or perceive that
they expressed, the facts they represented.
There is no question that Agatha understood,
on the information of her lover, that
she was his betrothed, and was to be his
bride. If bewilderment and curiosity were
the sole effect produced in her, so far as
these assurances of his respected her blank
past, are we to suppose she would not understand
his language as referring to him — to
the man himself — speaking to her, moving
before her, and impressing her existing power
of memory by his continual presence, and
by the tenderness and sweetness of his bearing
?

Well, if we are unable to see what passes

in one another's mind when we are intellectually
sound, we are not very likely to penetrate
the thoughts of people whose spiritual conditions
are out of gear by the dropping away
of one of the most essential and realising of
human faculties, and in whom inquiry simply
breeds a sense of painful puzzlement. That
she walked no more in her sleep Fortescue
could not possibly tell, because regularly
every night he turned the key in her cabin
door, lest, should the dangerous impulse seize
her, she might steal on deck unheard and fall
overboard She was perfectly aware of his
practice, but asked no questions, showed no
curiosity ; accepting this, as all other things at
his hands, with a child-like, inquiring acquiescence
infinitely touching, because it was
like her owning that she knew her want and
felt she must be counselled and directed.

Yet at other times, when quietly watching
her, his thoughts would take a little light from
hope. It was then he fancied he could see
in the presence of the baby a direct manifestation
of God's controlling and directing hand,
as he had imagined when the impulse of his
faith determined him to receive the ocean waif.

Once, her cabin door being open whilst she
was dressing the child, the day being calm,
everything quiet, saving now and again the
creak of a timber, the slight jar of the rudder
upon its post, he lingered a minute or two,
hearing her voice, to catch what she said.

Baby, you are straight from God — all
little ones are. The light of Heaven upon
you has not had time to darken. Oh ! flash
that lustre upon my mind, poor lonely infant !
Make me see into the dreadful blackness in
which my life is buried ! Oh ! baby, be an
angel to me ! God's light is still upon thee !
Make me see! Make me see! Oh! give me
remembrance !"

The devoted tone of her voice made her
words sound like a prayer to the Almighty.
It was as though she sought to purify her
human pleading by transmitting it to Heaven
through a baby's spirit. She sighed with a
sobbing sound, and presently continued : —

'' What is it that hinders me from remembering,
baby ? Why is all that went before
my awakening on the island as blank to meas
the past is to you ? Oh! little one, holy as
you are, sinless, with God your only father,

coming to us from the loneliness of the sea
solitary as an angel lingering awhile upon the
earth — hush ! the heavenly Creator understands
the sounds you make, interprets your
smile, for till knowledge of the world comes
to you, your thoughts are wholly and purely of
the kingdom of your Father, little one ! Be
as a guardian spirit to me — plead for me — ask
for the light that is now denied me !"

She paused abruptly, stooped and kissed
the child passionately, and fell again to
quietly sobbing, as her lover could tell by the
sounds of her respiration.

STONE ADVISES.

The Golden Hope rounded the Cape of Good
Hope to a steady, glorious, pouring gale, a
little to the north of east, and this noble slant
was throughout the little ship considered to be
so unusual that all hands accepted it as a piece
of extraordinary good luck. Night and day,
night and day, the schooner speeded before
this roaring wind, out of which the vessel's
swiftness took half its weight and spite, though
it was more than she would have dared show
a double-reefed topsail to had she been looking
up into it. The crew had never been more
in love with her. They hove the log regularly,
and the return showed from eleven to twelve
knots, with the same punctuality. Every day
at noon Hiram ogled the sun through his
old sextant, with as many blandishments of
countenance as his elongated face would

have assumed had he been courting his
sweetheart.

And this went on till they were sheer round
the Cape, climbing northwards. Then followed
some baffling weather, but it was hoped the
south-east trades were not far off, and it
would need some days of bothersome airs to
weaken In their hearts the music that had
been stormed into them by the blowing of the
noble easterly gale.

But all this while Agatha made no sign.
The child engrossed her. It might be,
indeed, that she found her own loneliness
subtly and profoundly reflected In the solitariness
of the little waif. It might be that
the yearning, maternal Instincts of the girl
noted a responsiveness in the bairn, when she
talked to him, as was her wont, and told him
how lonesome she was, and how bitter her
life was made by the darkness upon her mind ;
and that this Inexpressible sympathy brought
him so close to her heart, that had she been
his mother, he could have crept but very little
nearer to her love. It Is certain that she
never wearied of him, never disclosed the
least sign of impatience when his restlessness

broke her rest at night, or held her to his side
all day. Most of her leisure was devoted to
making clothes for the little creature, in feeding,
attending and waiting upon him. That
emotion was not dead in her ; that, indeed,
she could love, was proved by her devotion
to the babe ; but it was no expression of
such capacity of affection as Fortescue
sought. The problem grew desperately dark
to the poor fellow. He felt he should only
have rescued this girl to restore her to her
friends, and to be hereafter to her as an
acquaintance merely. It was terrible for him
to consider that his dream, his God-guided
passage, the awful and mysterious vindication
of his Maker's ways to him, should terminate
in the practical divorcement of her heart from
his, and in a separation of love, which, on her
side at least, even if they should become man
and wife, could not be completer, so far as
this world was concerned, were they lying
side by side at the bottom of the ocean.

The men forward were scarcely likely to
critically observe what was going on aft, in
respect, at least, of the sentimental features
of the life there. To Jack it was enough that

the parson had found his girl, and was bearing
her home. This filled up his mind, and there
was no room for any of the romantic points.
Archer, it is true, once said to Goldsmith : —

"I'm afraid Mr. Fortescue will have a deal
of difficulty with his lady. She don't recollect
more, now, of anything that passed before she
was shipwrecked than she did when she was
on the island. I suppose there's nothing
in loss of memory to stop a female from
marrying. Yet it must be queer to feel that
you've courted a girl, made her presents, kept
company with her, taken her to the theater
and spent your money on her, and then when
you're married, for her to look at you and not
know who you were, afore say two or three
months ago."

"Well, I dunno," says Goldsmith. 'i've
been married myself. She was a nice gal,
and I gave her a funeral up to the knocker.
But she and me used to have some shindies,.
I can tell ye, and all because of her memory.
She'd recollect parties I'd been courting before,
and quarrels me and she had had ; and so
accurate was she in her memory that there
was only two things as ever I can remember

DO

her being wrong in ; one was her age, and
t'other the money as she'd had out of me.
Now, without memory, she and me might
have sailed along without ever fouling."

"Ay," says old Breeches, who had been
listening to this, and speaking as he brought
the sooty bowl of his pipe so close to his nose
to peer into it that he squinted horribly, "and
there's another good thing in a woman's
having no memory, as you're taking no
account of, mate ; and that is she'd forget she
ever had parents. So that there'd be no fear
of a man being chased round the table by his
mother-in-law, as was a common occurrence
in a family circle what I was acquainted
with."

Those were the forecastle views of the
matter; but Hiram and Stone — more particularly
old Stone — by being aft, and living
close to Fortescue and Agatha, saw the
clergyman's trouble pretty clearly, and felt a
sympathy for him in a rough, homely, salt
fashion, indeed, yet with good sense. They
both considered themselves under a sort of
obligation to soothe and encourage him ; but
unhappily the subject was a delicate one ;

more than that, it was a trifle out of their
range.

'rafter all," Hiram once exclaimed to
Stone, "what's men like me and you to say?
'Ain't as if he was only an ordinary gent ;
he's a parson who's bin a-studyin' of the soulever
since he left college, and as this here
matter of memory intellectual, and as whatever's
intellectual contains the spirit, what's
you an' me a-going' to point out to him that he
don't know ? "

'true," answered Stone, "I've given the
subject a good deal o' thought, and I've come
to the conclusion that this here's a traverse
th' A'mighty intends the parson should work
out for himself. Still, it's a bad job, it's a
bad job, Hiram. To love a beautiful young
lady like Miss Fox, to save her life by a
miracle that ain't to be beat in Holy Writ,
for her not to know that you loves her,
and for you to understand that if ye could
only wipe the mist off the looking-glass of
her mind she'd be more yours than ever

she was afore it's a bad job, I says ;

almost proper to drive a man into getting
his head shaved and chucking' all the

vanities of life out o' the top window of a
monastery."

Yet spite of old Stone's belief that Fortescue's
trouble was a thing not to be eased, or
even come at, by such as he and Hiram, he
had nevertheless one or two ideas in his
mind which he fancied might help the clergyman
a bit, in the way of hoping, if he could
manage to impart them. The chance came.
It was a peaceful night with a broad and
brilliant shield of moon shining. The
schooner was to the south yet of the Polar
verge of the trade-wind, though at any hour
the clouds of that steady breeze might be
showing, with the welcome wind itself flashing
full Into the drum-like canvas of the
Golden Hope. The stars shone in beauty,
and the light heaving of the sea, in the direction
of the course of the vessel, gently accentuated
the propulsion of the air that was
blowing over the quarter.

It was ten o'clock. Stone had the watch,
and Hiram had turned in. Fortescue came
on deck, and began to walk up and down
with his hands behind him and his head
bent, without eye for the splendour of the

night. For ten minutes he continued pacing
the deck, then crossed over to Stone,
and said, with the abstraction of a man
whose mind is full of the subject he enters
upon : —

Mr. Stone, do you know if Archer ever
speaks of Miss Fox's memory ?"

I can't say, sir, I'm sure," answered
Stone. 'the subject's a delicate one, and
as he's a sensible man I don't reckon that
he'd be making it a matter of talk amongst
the crew."

"He was associated with her some time,"
said the clergyman. '' He may have noticed
signs in her when she was the light-hearted,
leaping creature we found her to be on our
landing — signs which may have become
obscure by the change to the life here ;
and he may have his opinions. I do
not care to question him ; I doubt the good
of it. He would of course desire to cheer
me, and would hesitate therefore to give me
his true view. I thought perhaps you might
know If he ever talked on the subject freely,
and what he said. But no matter, Mr.
Stone. 'Tis a bitter ending to a voyage

begun in hope — so successful, too, as a discovery
— and carried on under God's holy
eye ! Almost anything but this ! Anything
but this !"

His voice trembled as if he would give way,
and he turned to the rail with a deep sigh,
and leaned over it, letting his gaze run along
the glittering path of moonlight till it rested
son the bland and serene orb, where it remained
fixed for some moments whilst his
lips moved.

I shouldn't despair, sir," said Stone,
gravely. *' If Hiram and me haven't seemed
to take any particular notice of what's going
on, it's bin, as him and me was not long ago
saying, because it's a matter on which men
like us don't feel ourselves competent to
intrude. But for all that, sir, and the Lord's a-
lookin' into my heart as I speak, I don't think
that ever an hour goes by but what I'm
a-thinking' of ye both."

The clergyman put his hand upon the
back of the other.

"Ye'll forgive me, sir, for been' candid,"
continued the old seaman, "but my view is
you're allowing this here loss of memory to

prey upon your mind before you've given
the thing what I may call a fair chance."

I should have hoped," said Fortescue,
gently, looking at Stone, "that the mere
sight of me — of the man she loved, that she
was to have been married to — would have
proved the greatest of all chances that could
have been suggested."

'why, yes, sir," said Stone, "but since
it's failed, there's no use in considering' of it
as a chance."

But what is to recall her recollection ?"
exclaimed the clergyman.

"Well, there's no tellin'. In a big complaint
of this kind it's often a little thing as
makes it well. First of all, sir — and I know
ye'll excuse me — what's wanted, to start with,
is patience. Patience is hope, and hope carries
people to Heaven, don't it? I'll give ye an
example of patience. A savage, belonging
to an island in the South Seas, came aboard
a vessel, and took a fancy to a needle which
he saw the sail maker using. He tried all he
knew to get that needle, offering enemies'
skulls, mats, cocoa-nut shells, carved out
wonderful, and all sorts of things of a like

kind, but the sail maker wanted the needle,
and wouldn't part with it. So the savage,
seeing a crowbar near the hatch, steals it,
and goes ashore, and tarns to, with the head
of a wooden spear, to smoothe that there bar
into a needle. Five years afterwards the
same vessel touched again at the same
island, and the crew were told that the
savage was still a-scraping away at that
there bar. He hadn't altered its appearance
much, but the general 'pinion was he
intended to keep all on till death brought
him up with a round turn. Patience kept
that savage full of hope, and whilst he had
hope, that crowbar was as good as a needle
to the poor fellow."

Saying which, Mr. Stone furtively hooked
a small plug of tobacco out of his cheek, and
gazed at the clergyman with the complacency
of a man who feels that he has produced an
impression.

But it was not quite that I meant to
mention, sir," he went on, observing Fortescue
to turn his glance languidly to the sea. " You
say that the lady should have known ye, and
she ought to, there's no doubt. But the

VOL. III. M

circumstance not happening proves, as I
afore said, that if you remove yourself, sir,
from this here schooner, what's there formiHar
about the crew and the craft to catch hold of
her recollection ? That's the question. She
looks at me, and she looks at Captain Weeks,
and she runs her gaze over the faces of the
crew, and there's notion as is known to
her. Therefore," he exclaimed, putting some
energy into his voice, which he instantly
corrected after a swift glance round at the
man at the tiller, "what I would like to say
is, afore ye abandon the job as a hopeless one,
wait for the chances that land's a-going to
bring. Take that little village oi Wyloe. I
was only there once — that time when I went
to see ye, sir — but as much of it as I looked
at I can now recall as plainly as if there was
a painting of it afore me. And why? 'Cause
there ain't too much of it to crowd the
memory."

Fortescue had turned to him and was now
listening. The old sailor* noted this, and
went on with emphasis.

Wait, sir, till she sees the house as she
was accustomed to stop at, till she's been

curtseyed to by folks with familiar faces, as
knew her and as'll be delighted to see her
again ; till she meets with the ladies and
gents as are her relations and good friends ;
till she sees ye up in the pulpit in the gown
she was accustomed to observe you in on
Sunday, a-preaching, in the voice she knew,
the same sort of sermons as used to take her
fancy ; with the congregation a-sitting round,
all known to her, and the old church there
just as it was afore she sailed for India.
Why, who's a-going to say even that her eye
oughtn't strike upon a h'eepetaph. as words
writ upon tombstones is called — a h'eepetaph
'graved upon a stone in the burying' ground
she is accustomed to pass through, which
might serve her as a light from a bull's-eye
flashed upon the darkness of her mind, and
shown' up to the sight of her spirit everything
ye desire her to recollect ? What I
says is, Mr. Fortescue, that until ye surrounds
her with all the circumstances which
is only to be found ashore, ye'll not be giving
her a fair chance ; and therefore ye should
have patience, sir."

A hint from the most plain and unlettered

sense will often put the keenest Intelligence
right. A sailor would know that land is not
far off by the sight of a bird or a piece of seaweed
; yet he might not have the knowledge
to steer for it. Stone's rough, rude, salt language
contained a hint that Fortescue's own
mind might not have given to him. Indeed,
there would be a perfectly natural egotism in
the clergyman to forbid him from seeing out
of his own brains the chance he yearned for,
for Agatha, when she had shown that there
was nothing in him, in his face, in his speech,
in his efforts to touch her recollection, and win
her memory back. His grief and love kept his
eyes fixed in one direction. It was enough
that she had no knowledge of him. He
never thought of casting his fancy around
or beyond that consideration. But when
he quitted Stone and resumed his walk
about the deck, he thought very earnestly
over what the old man had said, and found
so much hope in it that he felt a livelier
spirit rising in him. It was like a sudden
and great opening of the prospect, and of
course he wondered at himself, that he
should need the words of an old sailor to

make him understand how much of the
sorrow and hopelessness which had come
to him lately with Agatha's increased dejection
and gloomier abstraction of manner,
was due to the absolute egotism in his
theories about her. What, he reasoned,
could be more sensible than Stone's advice
to him to throw his individuality, his personality
aside, as a thing no longer to be
dealt with in any present consideration of
her darkened mind? It had failed as an
appeal. It was no good. He must hope
for something beyond that now, and the old
sailor had told him what he might base
sound expectations upon.

He paused to realise the thing himself ;
and, standing and looking away into the
darkness over the stern, he conjured up a
picture of Wyloe, of the old church, of the
seashore along which he used to wander with
her, hand-in-hand, passing hours in that way ;
of the avenue under whose green twilight he
had first spoken his love, and where, after she
had sailed in the Merula, he had stood with
folded arms leaning against a tree, with the
tide of moonlight gushing full upon him,

thinking of her. He pictured these things
and his heart took a higher pulsation to the
thought that surely, surely in such a crowd
of gentle, peaceful and beautiful associations,
as that little village of Wyloe would offer,
there must be a magic to touch her memory
to brighten out the dreadful darkness into
full knowledge, and give her back to him as
she was in the days of her love and of her
undimmed faculties, the sweeter, perhaps,,
for this long sleep of the spirit, and even
purer and fairer yet for a resurrection that
would veritably be as a new birth of soul and
intellect out of the blackness of the grave of
memory.

Falmouth, too, would possess for her scores
of points to touch her recollection with, and
vitalise it afresh. Especially did the thinker,
growing cheerier with his reflections, feel the
force of Stone's remark that the schooner
gave the girl no chance, if chance came not
to her in Fortescue himself, as he looked
along the decks of the gliding vessel and felt
the utter unfamiliarity of it all as presented
to her. Had the Golden Hope been an
Indiaman there might have been recognition

of her in Agatha, and the helpfulness of it ;
but what did he now see? A little craft, with
the moonlight impeaching her canvas, the
rigging ruled in ebony lines upon those
delicately-tinted cloths, scarce less lovely with
their suggestions of dim, prismatic hues than
the fading lunar rainbow is ; ivory decks, exquisitely
stained in deepest black by the outline
of every object that threw a shadow; faint
silvery stars twinkling in the breastwork and
glass; a silent figure quietly moving here and
there in the shadows upon the forecastle; the
trucks soaring delicately and wanly on high
to the stars, under whose fiery hosts they
gently waved in unison with the breathing of
the ocean swell. It was a picture of repose,
of a heaven glorious with the lights of night ;
and in the midst of it sailed the schooner, a
mere phantasm, floating forwards on wings
dim as mountain mist touched by starlight ;
familiar to him, indeed now as familiar to
him as the fingers of his hand after all these
months ; for he had watched her often as he
had watched her now, in calm and in tempest,
under the constellations which circled to
the north and to the south of the Equator;

and this watching of the schooner had raised
in him an affection for the little vessel ; for
she had borne them bravely, she had worked
out his wonderful mission nobly, and he
could not but feel a sailor's love for her, as
though plank and beam, cordage and canvas
and spar, were things of veins and pulses and
heart, and could know human affection and
respond to It.

Familiar to him as his fingers was the
vessel, but not so to Agatha. There was no
appeal to her in the Golden Hope, nor in
the crew, nothing she could associate past
fancies with. He felt that now that Stone
had pointed it out to him, and the perception
ran a thrill of hope through him, because It
made him see that the girl's chances were yet
to come.

It was half-past eleven ere he went below.
He paused in the companion and said, " Goodnight,
Mr. Stone."

Good night, sir," answered the old fellow,
touching his hat.

Mr. Stone."

The seaman approached him.

I've been turning over what you said.

Your words have given me a new heart.
Strange that it should never have occurred
to me to think of Miss Fox as capable of
being influenced by associations apart from
myself."

'Tis the natural vanity we all has, sir,"
exclaimed Stone; 'most of us is eat up by it.
The finest natures has it. The sauce that is
meant for relish very often spoils the meat
it's put along with. 'Cause the lady don't
recognise you, you've concluded that her
memory's not to be got at. Xow, you
mark me, sir, and see if a little thing don't
bring it back."

Pray God your words may prove true,"
said Mr. Fortescue. "Good night, again,
and thanks."

Well, I've spoke out plain, and no
mistake," said old Stone to himself as he
walked over to the quarter, "but it's done
him good, and so he ain't a-going' to resent it.
Preaching' ! My precious eyes. Sure-ly a
parson's calling must be a mighty easy 'un.
Why, I could have given him a sermon as
long as the mainland of a line-of-battle ship
without drawn' a breath. Av ! and like the

job, too. Given' advice makes a man feel
important, and that's why, I suppose, we
all finds it nicer to harmonise than to be
harmonised." And so, talking to himself, the
old fellow pulled a stick of tobacco from
his pocket, out of which he bit a quid that
effectually silenced his muttering by obliging
him to use his tongue to force it into his
cheek.

OVERBOARD.

All night long the same quiet wind held.
In the morning, with the rising of the sun,
it freshened a trifle, and in the east the
ocean was like molten silver with the
trembling of the multitudinous surges which
followed the schooner out of the south. It
was like a promise of the trade-wind, this
freshening of the draught, with its steady
southern holding, as though it should veer
eastward presently, and breeze up, strong
and steady. Far off on the lee bow there
was a glimpse to be had of a little barque
bound northerly like the schooner, and resembling
a fragment of crystal against the
light blue sky of the horizon, otherwise the
sea went bare to the sky, that was a brilliant
dome overhead, full of fine weather.

After breakfast, the watch on deck turned

to their various duties. Stone strutted to and
fro In the gangway, and the Golden Hope
gathered a homeward-yearning look, from the
smoke of her galley fire blowing over the
bow, and from the distention of her canvas
rounding forwards, and from the streaming of
the little masthead vane, like a crimson flame
against the blue, towards the north where the
craft's home lay. The water slipped past
prettily, and on Fortescue arriving from the
cabin and asking the mate what the speed
was, the log was hove, and the rate made five
knots.

*' It's her sharp lines with nothing to stop
her In this smooth water, sir," said Stone.
'yet it's very delicate sailing to be sure;
most choice. Them stunsalls are doing the
chief work ; yet," said he, watching a bubble
go by, 'T never should have believed It to be
five by merely looking."

This will have been a long voyage," said
the clergyman, with a half sigh, ''by the time
it is over. Few keep the sea for so many
months as we have ; but home will seem the
sweeter and fairer for these weeks and weeks
of dull salt water."

'' Well, sir," responded Stone, " it'll no
doubt seem an endless job to a gent like you
who are not used to it ; but the voyage has
answered our expectations, and if it had lasted
six years instead of six months its tediousness
should give us no call to grumble."

At this moment Agatha came on deck
holding the baby. The cabin boy followed
with a chair which Fortescue took and placed
for her. She seated herself and he stood by
her side.

In the searching morning light you would
have noticed a marked expression, and yet a
subtle one, too, in her face, to contrast with
that air of new born beauty, like the second
flowering of an exquisite plant, which she
had stepped on board with from the island
There was a worn aspect that you found
explained by the permanent wistfulness of
her expression. Her white forehead showed
signs of mental conflict. Without knowing
the truth, you would have suspected, from the
looks of her. that she was harassing her soul
and dimming its divine light by religious
dreads and doubts and worthless superstitious
conjectures. It was easy for Fortescue

to see how It was, though one thing
puzzled him greatly, too. Why, since Archer
had given her to know that she had a past
which was impenetrable to her, she should
not have fretted whilst on the island over
her incapacity to pierce the thing, as she
now Grieved on board the schooner over
her helplessness ? But then, had he not
told her what Archer never could have
hinted at ? Had he not dwelt, again and
yet again, upon their betrothal, upon matters
which she would instinctively know to be
of priceless value to her, though they wore
no material shape, bore no material significance
to her blinded light ; forced her, by
his efforts to recall her memory, to dwell
upon what was hidden, as a mourner might
muse over something precious to the heart,
secreted by the ocean in a thousand fathoms
of dusky green obscurity ? But for his passionate
desire to flash the light of life into
her memory she might yet have retained
the sunny buoyancy and strange good spirits
and flushed improved beauty which had come
to her on the island. As he stood looking
at her, regret pierced his heart, for he had

/

-grievously saddened without enlightening
her, and he feared in every drooping lookin
every broken sigh, in every feeble smile
fluttering quickly into fixity of sadness, the
-approach of a form of inconsolable mania
which dav and niofht he should know to be
sowing to his own heedless eagerness that
her past should open to her.

She was warmly dressed, and she had
clothed the baby warmly, for the wind came
with a slight chill in it from the south, and
the sun was north of the Equator.

It is wonderful," he said, kneeling in
front of the child to bring his face on a level,
and speaking with a perfect sweetness of
manner, and such a note of love that, observing
there was no melting, no sparkling, no
glad nor gay response to it in the slow lifting
of her listless eye, you would have turned
away, touching your forehead, to another, as
an expression of your suspicion, 'how you
have contrived to dress little Malcolm out of
the slender materials at your disposal. You
wield a magical needle, Agatha."

"It gives me occupation," she answered,
in a quiet voice, and as though she brought

her mind away from other thoughts with
difficulty to attend to what he said. "Without
my Httle boy this salHng, this constant salHng,
would be very tiresome. I should pine for
land — Indeed, I do so greatly, but not as I
should without my baby ;" and she kissed him.

The little fellow began to talk to her In his
way, raising his hands, and making to clutch
at the sails as If he wanted them. She understood
him, and answered, and presently
quieted him by producing some trifle from
her pocket.

'' He Is a beautiful boy," said Fortescue,
who had been watching the little creature
closely whilst he babbled to Agatha. "It
is pretty sure to end in our having to adopt
him, for there is nothing In the things found
in the boat likely to yield a clue to his
paternity, and he may go to his grave without
ever knowing whose mother's son he
• >>

IS.

"I do not think I could part with him now,
even to his mother, were she alive to claim
him," said Agatha, putting her arm round the
child and bringing him close to her with a
quick impassioned clasp. "We have told

each other all our secrets. He knows my
heart — he knows my trouble."

Fortescue rose to his feet and said, " What
is his secret, Agatha T

*' Loneliness," she answered, looking down
at the boy.

Ah ! the same old fancy of yours, due to
the one haunting thought in you. But it is
not so, my darling. Consider, how can he be
lonely when he has your love, and how can
you be lonely when I am with you — I who
belong to the past which is yours, though fora
little while it is veiled — I who am visible
and real, though your mind's sight cannot
follow me beyond the moment of my coming
to you on the island. Oh, loved one ! My
Agatha ! Would to God that you could take
comfort ! that I could give you comfort ! that
you would think less, hope more, fear nothing,
believing me to be to you what I say I am,
trusting in me, therefore, and praying with me
for that light which in the Almighty's own
good time must dawn upon you."

The sinking eyelash, the sparkle behind it,
the sudden, quick rising and falling of her
bosom, warned him that he had said enough.

VOL. III. N

He went to the starboard bulwarks and stood,
with his eyes fixed on the sea, thinking of her,
asking himself whether it was possible that
there was the power in the remembered
sights and scenes, the familiar faces, the well-loved
haunts of Wyloe, to touch her memory
into life. If not, what would the end be ?
For if the faculty of recollection was veritably
dead in her, killed by the miscreant that had
been slain by Archer, could a new life, into
whose composition there should enter the
same elements that had been present in the
past, be built upon that sandy plain of mind,
under which lay crumbling the dead memorials
of her existence as child, woman, and
sweetheart ?

But how could speculation avail him ?
He turned, bringing his eyes, dim with the
thoughts that troubled and oppressed his
heart, from the sea, but found that she had
gone to the opposite rail, where she stood
holding the infant, looking at the distant
vessel. She had placed the child on the
top of the bulwarks, holding him by the
waist ; and the clergyman's gaze lingered a
moment or two, with love and sadness and

admiration mixed, upon the fair proportions
of his daring; for however hidden fretting
may have subdued the beauty in her face,
and sobered the dancing buoyancy of her
step, it had left unimpaired the healthful and
free and graceful mien that to a large degree
though a charming shape and lovely manner
were always hers — had been the gift of the
island, with its rosy sunlight glorifying the
warm blue serge that melted into silver about
her uncovered limbs, and its tropical climate
that had made the rags, in which her lover
had found her, clothing enough by day and
night, whilst fatherless as garments for her
beauty to ripen in ; her figure, grief had left
untouched, and he observed a gentle queenliness
of aspect in her at that moment, as she
stood holding the baby upon the rail, her
arms lifted, her hair looking like a soft glow
of light under the shadow of the hat she
wore, and the white of her throat and of her
arm, from the wrist to where the loose sleeve
exposed it below the elbow, giving back an
ivory dazzle of its own to the sunshine flowing
down upon her, past the rounded cloths
of the mainsail.

He had glanced away again from her and
Stone, who was coming forward with a slow
step from the tiller, where he had been
addressing a few words to the helmsman,
when she uttered a scream that rang wild,
ear-piercing, with a note of inexpressible suffering
in it, through the vessel, and swung
back from aloft in an echo that mingled at
the instant with the soft plash of a body
striking the water. In three bounds the
clergyman was at the girl's side, holding her
with a grip of steel, while she made frantic
efforts to climb over the bulwarks and plunge
into the sea. He had indeed saved her from
this act by scarcely more than the time it
takes for a man to fetch a breath. Her
shriek, that would have paralysed many, had
brought him to her side in the beat of a
heart, and he had her round the waist ere,
nimbly as she moved in her mad terror, she
had dragged herself half the height of the
bulwarks.

It had happened in a second, as all such
things do. The child, held erect upon the
rail, had suddenly made a plunge towards
some bubble or streak of sunlight upon the

passing water, and as the hold of the girl
was slightly relaxed, with a mood of abstraction
that had come upon her, the baby had
freed himself from her clutch and sprang
overboard.

Hard down ! Hard down I" roared Stone,
pulling off his coat and flinging down his
cap, and kicking off his boots with might
and main as he bawled out the order ; and
the next thing Mr. Fortescue saw was the
figure of the old fellow poised an instant
upon the quarter, whilst he put his hands
together like a man saying his prayers, to
take the header. Splash ! He vanished,
and a whirl of bubbles came up where his
heels had been. In a few seconds he re-appeared,
blowing and fuming, with crimson
countenance, his grey hair silvery upon the
surface, striking out with grotesque and awkward
gestures, but with steadiness and
power, for the baby that lay face down,
buoyed by its clothes.

Hiram came rushing on deck as though
chased by fire. He had heard the shriek,
and as he bounded through the companion he
yelled out, " What is it ? What is it ?"

Fortescue, bringing the half-fainting girl
away from the bulwarks, cried —

"The baby has fallen overboard, and Mr.
Stone has jumped after him. They are just
there !" and he pointed deliriously.

'' Over with the boat, men !" cried Hiram,
cooling quickly as his judgment and instincts
as a seaman rose in him, touching
out his mind. '' Out with that gangway,
two of you ! For God's sake, don't stand to
cast them lashings adrift ! Put your knives
through 'em ! Put your knives through
'em!"

The crew, at Agatha's shriek, had come
together with a rush, bundling wildly out of
the forecastle, those of them who were below,
and gathering about the boat with amazing
swiftness, they uprooted her, keel up as she
lay in the bigger boat, ran her to the gangway,
and in a trice had her overboard,
launching her smack fashion. Two men
rolled into her, oars were flung to them and
away they went to the speck, already a
quarter-of-a-mile distant — so subtly swift was
the schooner's sliding — that denoted old Stone
nearing the baby, who lay motionless, always

face downwards, now within a few strokes of
his arm.

In a few minutes the two seamen, one
of them standing up and rowing with his
face forwards, were alongside ; they dragged
the old man in, streaming, and the little
creature like a soaked rag lay motionless
against his wet breast, as the boat danced
back to the schooner. A half dozen hands
received the child, and the mate followed.
Agatha rushed forward.

'' Give him to me," she cried in a voice
raised almost to a scream. '' My precious
one ! My little lamb !" And she pressed the
dripping mite to her neck, leaning her chin
upon its cheek and swaying to and fro with
a motion of soothing that was full of anguish.

"Mr. Fortescue, quick, sir!" cried Stone,
wringing the wet off his arms, "get the baby
stripped and rolled in a blanket at once. No
time must be lost. He's been floating on his
face ever since he fell. Do ye know what
to do to revive persons as seem drownded ?"
he said, speaking with vehement rapidity.

Fortescue helplessly shook his head.

'then down with us, sir I" roared Stone,

and he made with rapid strides for the companion,
whilst the clergyman, catching hold
of Agatha, who seemed half stupefied by the
new fright that had come to her with the
corpse-like stillness of the little body in her
arms, hastened into the cabin after the old
sailor.

Amongst them they rapidly unclothed the
infant, and spread a blanket, and Stone,
baring his arms and drying them, fell to
turning the little thing about, working for
artificial respiration, rubbing it and the like
with evident knowledge of what was necessary,
and using a hand that the bairn's
mother would have kissed for the gentleness
of its touch. It was a solemn sight,
a most moving picture. Lifeless the baby
lay, with ivory eyelids half raised, and glazing
eyes looking, as it might seem, out of deepest
sleep through the fringe of lashes. It was
the creature's littleness that made its figure
a sight to bring tears from a heart of stone.
The bright hair was streaked and matted
upon its head, but the lips wore yet their
coral tint, and were parted, showing the
few pearls ; if aught of the duskiness of

Strangulation had entered the marble-like
clearness of those baby features, the hue
had passed away, and the face looked as
it had ever seemed when the child slept
sweetly, and the tranquil delight of pure
slumber was in its expression. And then
there was the broad, round-backed figure
of old Stone, with eyes slowly moistening
as the minutes passed and the child gave
no sign ; there was this sturdy figure, with a
pool of water at his feet, bending oVer the
babe, his rugged features gathering an extraordinary
accentuation of comely roughness
from the refinement and beauty and delicacy
of the tiny features he would often bend his
mouth close to. There also was Mr. Fortescue,
with a firm hold of Agatha's hand,
standing erect with no other motion of his
body than such as was communicated by the
light swaying of the schooner, gazing with
eyes full of earnest pity, in which the light
of hope and the shadow of fear alternated, at
the figure Stone was seeking to give life to ;
and there was Agatha, tragical in her unconscious
attitude of breathless eagerness and
misery, suppressed but gnawing deep, the

fingers of her free hand working convulsively,
her breathing swift as a young child's,
staring with starting intentness at the baby's
face.

For a long while this went on, during which
not a word was said ; then Stone, letting fall
his hand, looked slowly round to Fortescue,
manifestly afraid of Agatha's gaze, and exclaimed,
in a voice but a little above a
whisper, and with a long sigh breaking his
sentence ; '* I'm afraid, sir, the little un's
drownded."

'through me!" said Agatha, wresting her
hand away from the clergyman's, and speaking
in a tone that thrilled the hearts of both
men. " It is God's will that I should remain
alone. Oh! forgive me! Forgive me! My
poor heart ! My lost one ! My angel !" and
as she said this she threw herself upon the
little body, but with shining tearless eyes and
after a wild wrestle for breath, fainted.

"It's as well it should happen so," said
Hiram, who had come down softly and was
looking on from the bottom of the steps, " 'tis
but a swoon, Mr. Fortescue. Bill, I'll help to
lay her down. You're all wet, mate, don't 'ee

touch her. It's been a hard spin for you, but
it was well done, ay, it was well done, matey.
Oh! it's a cruel accident certainly." And with
every symptom of being deeply moved,
Hiram helped Fortescue to lay the poor girl
down upon a locker, and whilst the clergyman
damped her cold forehead and loosened her
collar, the skipper turned to the body of the
little baby.

'* Hiram !" said Stone, "afore I shift, let's
put the poor little 'un away where she won't
be able to see him, naked and miserable ashe
looks, when she comes to."

'* Yes," said Fortescue, eagerly. '* Clothe
him as she would for the night, and place
him in his crib and cover him up. Captain
Weeks. It will seem more like his sleeping
to her then, and the new shock that must
come to her will be blunted a little."

Gently, and with a touching reverence of
manner, Hiram raised the little body, and
held it a minute, looking down into its face ;
then he shook his head, and as he did so a
tear fell to the deck.

''To have saved ye for this, only!" he
muttered, as he bore the dead infant into

Agatha's cabin. '* Poor innocent ! It wasn't
worth while ; it wasn't worth while !"

Between them they habited the tiny figure
as the clergyman suggested, and placed it in
its crib, laying it on its side so that the little
face rested like an exquisite cameo upon the
pillow. They drew the coverlet up to its
neck, and softly pushing the crib to where
the berth lay in the shadow, each man bent,
one after the other, over the poor, nameless
little corpse and kissed it, and then came out
of the cabin on tip-toe.

THE BURIAL OF THE BABY.

An hour later Fortescue was sitting alone
in the cabin, having left Agatha at her request.
However affected he might have
been by the sudden, violent death of the
poor and nameless little creature that had
come to them from out of the silence and
mystery of the deep, his feelings now were
with Agatha, whose grief was such that he
could not think of it and be at the same time
acutely sensible of the sudden extinction of
the infant. Of course, he understood her
sorrow. , It was not only that she accounted
herself wholly responsible for the child's death
by her heedless holding of it upon the rail
though that consideration alone might well
make such a wound as would long keep
conscience bleeding — the child had been her
sole companion for weeks, her only occupation,

a light, even as of happiness, to
hinder the rapid rising and gathering of
gloomy sorrow begotten by realisation of
her mental blindness.

It must indeed be said that she had come
to love the boy as though he had been born
of her. The natural sweetness of her heart
would in any case have found in the innocence,
the youth, and the helplessness of the little
one, such an appeal to her affection as she
would have instantly answered. But her own
condition had put a deeper character than
mere womanly affectionate sympathy could,
into her feelings towards the child. How,
then, would this blow affect her ? Mr, Fortescue
thought, as he sat leaning his forehead
upon his hand, fresh from her presence. She
had looked at the little dead face with tearless
eyes, when, having recovered from her
swoon, she was taken by the clergyman to
where the body lay ; and whilst she remained
tearless, her lover viewed her furtively with
dismay, fearing the rigidity in her features,
and that pressure of her lips which held them
ashen. But before long she broke down,
wept piteously, kissed the lifeless bairn with a

kind of frenzy, violently upbraiding herself
in broken sentences, and uttering a hundred
moving things full of passion and misery.

He sought to comfort her, raising her hand
to his mouth, smoothing her hair, filling up
the pauses often rendered incoherent by
failures of breath and long fits of sobbing, by
endeavouring to make her understand that
the child's death was an accident, and not
owing to her ; that bitter and hard to bear as
the blow seemed, it was the act of God, to
be resignedly borne ; for who was to say, he
urged, that the child's mother who had gone
before, had not entreated for the soul of her
child to be given her, and that the Creator, in
mercy for the mourning spirit of the mother,
and to spare the infant from that spiritual
pestilent which must attend existence in
the world and unfit it, perhaps, for Heaven,
had hearkened to her prayer, and dispatched
the messenger of death in the sacred name
of divine compassion and in the not less
sacred name of a mother's love ?

Thus spoke the clergyman out of such
metaphysical and yet material fancies as
were sure to be inspired by his ardent and

Imaginative faith. But If she heard him
she did not seem to give much heed, till
at last when her sobs had calmed a little,
and there was a more tranquil expression
in her eyes, she asked him In a tremulous
whisper ''to leave her ; and he at once complied.


Long before this, Stone had put on dry-clothes
and returned on deck to his watch ;
but after Hiram had " made eight bells," the
old fellow came below, and finding Fortescue
alone, said, in a muffled voice and with a slow
look round, " How is she a-bearing of It, sir?"

'* She remains quiet in her cabin," answered
Fortescue, " I do not care to intrude. Let
me say now, as I should have said long ago,
Mr. Stone, how deeply your brave action,
in jumping overboard after the poor little
creature, has moved me."

The old sailor, giving a snuffle In his nose,
interrupted with a raised hand.

'not a word on that subject, I beg of
you, sir. Mr. Fortescue, I think ye are
wise in leaving her alone with the little 'un.
There's no tellin' what thoughts may visit
her. I've been a-turning this lamentable

job over in my mind, and can't help fancying
there may be a meaning dropped up
in it as'll come out plain to our sight by
waiting a bit. I dunno, I'm sure. There's
something so remarkable in the whole of
this here voyage, that it looks to me as if
notion could happen but that it is meant
to signify more than 'ud appear in it on
any other occasion. Why should that there
little baby be drownded, Mr. Fortescue ?
What hurt had he done ? I tell ye what,
sir, if we're to judge of things only as we
sees them, in their literal shapes, without
viewing of them as seeds out of which
there's a-going to be a growth by-and-bye,
why, then, the sooner we tarns to and considers
that it's the devil as made this here
universe and has got hold of the tiller and
is a-governin' of us, the better. That's Bill
Stones's notion, and I ain't ashamed to say
it to a clergyman."

But Mr. Fortescue was in no humour to
reason. Probably he might have agreed with
the sailor. Whilst they conversed, his ear
was bent towards the door of Agatha's berth,
and his glance often wandered that way. To

VOL. HI. o

him, as to old Stone, the notion had come that
the girl's watching and mourning by the side
of the little corpse might lead to thoughts, to
impulses, to emotions which should be as
memory's dawn to her — turning her blackened
mind, though but with a little movement only,
towards the light which yet, through the
mental inclination, should cast the paleness
of a sunrise not far off upon an atmosphere
that was now an impenetrable obscurity.

"As you said yesterday," exclaimed Fortescue,
thinking aloud, ''a little thing may
do It."

"Ay, sir, a little thing; and perhaps the
very last the most energetic frmcy would
be likely to Imagine. Will ye keep the
body long, sir ?"

I must be advised by you and Captain
Weeks. What is the usual course, Mr.
Stone ?"

*' Why, as there ain't a shadow of a doubt
that the poor fellow is dead, there's no cause
to keep him an hour longer than ye choose.
It's a job which ye can't get too soon done
with ; besides, sailors have a superstition again
sailing with corpses. They like to feel they're

overboard — even a poor little baby's like
this."

'rit might shock Miss Fox," said the clergyman,
''if the funeral were hasty. Would the
crew object to our waiting till the morning ?"

"Why, no, of course they wouldn't. I
shouldn't have thought myself of naming an
earlier time. To-morrow, at six bells, sir.
That'll be eleven o'clock in the forenoon
watch, if Captain Weeks is agreeable. He
must be buried as a sailor, sir," said the old
man, with a mist coming over his eyes,
though he looked at the clergyman steadfastly.
" There ain't a question in my mind
of his having been a sailor's son, and his last
toss must be conducted on that idea. I've
got the afternoon below, and I'll make him a
proper little hammock, with clews to hold a
sinker, sir," said the old fellow, sniffing as he
spoke, "and when stitched up, Mr. Fortescue,
and lying on a plank, with the ensign
over him, he'll look as his own father could
have wished to see him at such a time. It'll
be my job, only I wish we'd manage to draw
Miss Fox out of the berth whilst I takes the
little chap's measure, for the hammock

mustn't be too small, and it won't look shipshape
if it's too large."

At this point Hiram came below. Stone
repeated to him the suggestions he had made
to Mr. Fortescue, and, the skipper consenting,
the matter was settled.

All the afternoon, in the cabin, with a pair
of spectacles on, a sail maker's palm in his
hand, and a gleaming needle between his
fingers, old Stone sate bending over pieces
of sail-cloth, which he was stitching into a
hammock for the baby to be buried in.
There was little need for him to take the
trouble he did. A plain piece of canvas
would have sufficed ; but it was not only
that the old man had come to love the little
boy, he believed him to be a sailor's son, and
with the proud sympathy that all genuine
Jacks have with their calling and those who
form it, he was determined that the sea
shroud in which the little one was to goto
his ocean grave should be such as the
most critical mariners would declare fit and
becoming. When he had done he called
to Mr. Fortescue, who brought Agatha
from her berth, telling her what Stone

wanted to do there. It was late in the
afternoon ; the girl had exhausted her tears,
and she came out quietly with the clergyman,
and went on deck with him. Stone
entered the berth and did his work there,
but it was a task that came very near to
breaking him down more than once. Often
during the long years he had spent at sea,
he had lent a hand to stitch up in canvas
the remains of shipmates ; but then they
had always been men — rough, sturdy
fellows in life ; and though the disease
they had died of might have wasted them,
yet he could recollect them starting as
active, hearty sailors, who had lived, and
who, if death had come to them prematurely,
were still not so young as to make
the visit seem cruel for its earliness. But
when he raised the tiny form and laid it
in the little hammock, the soft-hearted old
fellow could have wept like a woman. The
half-opened eyes seemed to follow him as
though they thanked him for his tenderness,
and for his brave plunge overboard
in the morning. He kissed the cold forehead,
passed his fingers through the yellow

hair, and with an involuntary look up ta
God as if the hiding of the body in the
hammock was like the act of giving it to
Heaven, he fell to stitching the canvas
along, and soon the little form lay encased
ready for the morning.

When this was completed, the old man
stepped on deck and motioning so as ta
bring Mr. Fortescue near to Hiram, he said
that the body was stitched up in the hammock,
"and I think now," added he, "for
the sake of the lady it had better be taken
forward and covered over with a tarpaulin."

*' Yes," said Fortescue, " I should not like
it to be all night in the same berth with Miss
Fox."

No hurt can come to it," said Hiram
*' in this quiet weather, with a tarpaulin over
it. As ye say. Bill, it's best taken forward."

Stone went to the flag locker, a box
in which a little show of bunting was kept,,
and taking out the small ensign, stepped
below with it, and reverently wrapping the
hammock up in the colour, he brought his
burthen on deck, holding it in his arms as if
it were a sleeping infant he was hushing to

his heart. When Agatha saw him emerge
from the companion-way, and observed what
he held, she started violently and half rose
from her chair ; but Fortescue grasped her
hand and stood in front of her, whereupon
she fell back, hiding her eyes, but she did
not speak. Stone was bareheaded, and
Hiram as he passed pulled off his cap, as
did Archer, who was at the tiller. Forward,
the men went on with their various jobs,
glancing at what lay in Stone's arms, and
then addressing themselves afresh to what
they were about ; those who had tobacco in
their mouths chewed perhaps with increased
energy, and in all of them you saw a soberness
of expression entering their faces, like a
deeper dye in the mahogany of their cheeks.
Placing the body upon the deck. Stone drew
over it a tarpaulin, which he secured at the
corners, and there, ready for the morning,
lay all that was mortal of the little waif
whom the old seaman had declared to be a
sailor's son, but whose paternity was now to
be a mystery that should outlast the world,
and be without determination till He who
loved little children and called them unto

him, and who had declared that of such as
this innocent boy was the Kingdom of
Heaven, should come to judge the living and
the dead.

These, at least, were Mr. Fortescue's
thoughts as he watched Stone. He sought
to soothe Agatha, but she did not seem
able to listen to him. If ever she spoke
it was only to mutter in broken speech that
she was answerable for the child's death,
and that that thought would make her loneliness
more than she could bear. After a
while she said that the sunshine pained
her eyes, and asked Fortescue if she might
go to her cabin, speaking as though she
had no will of her own, and with a note
of grief in her voice that harshened its
sweetness, and with a manner that almost
neutralised the particular loveliness of bearing
which had marked the timidity she was
wont to address him with, after she had
got to learn, as though by rote, what he had
told her about their being betrothed, and
how they were to be married when they
reached England.

The evening came along with the same

quiet wind that had been blowing all day
whispering through it, with purple splendours
swiftly fading in the west, and the stars eastward
flashing quickly into their places, for
there was but a narrow interval of twilight,
and in those latitudes the night will bestriding
across the deep when the waters
facing the direction whence she rises still
wear the hectic of the vanished luminary.
The crew gathered about the forecastle and
talked in low voices. The little creature
that in life had been a toy for the men to
look at with amused and sympathetic faces
was now a mighty power to subdue them ;
wizard-like, filling the air with the shadow of
death, so that the mysterious influence coming
from it touched and gloomed in all that
the sailor's eyes rested upon, putting a deeper
darkness upon the ocean, a palliser light
upon the bosom of the sails sleeping to the
sighing of the wind, a meaning, not at any
other time to be caught, into the soft sobbing
of the water, broken by the stem into lines in
which the reflection of each star broadened
as it rode over the long ripple.

Fortescue paced the quarter-deck, too much

absorbed in thought for conversation with
Hiram, whose watch it was, and who talked
in a low voice with Duck, who was at the
tiller. Stone came up to smoke. He took
a few turns in the gangway, then stepped
forward to see that all was right with the
tarpaulin, and observing the men grouped
forward of the foregoing, talking, he joined
them. As aforesaid, there was not the
discipline of a ship aboard the little schooner.
Hiram and Stone were no better than others
of the crew, though of course they were
obeyed and were men whom the sailors had
signed articles to sail under as captain and
mate ; yet, they had been careful to keep
at their end of the craft during the voyage,
and the mate joining the seamen now was
felt as a sort of condescension and kindness
on his part, and when he stepped amongst
them there was silence, meant as a sign of
respect.

'' It is a sad business, the little 'uns death,"
said he, putting his back against the rail, and
folding his arms, and casting his gaze aloft
while he sucked at his pipe.

'' There will be no more stopping," exclaimed

Goldsmith, emptying his pipe by
striking it on the palm of his hand so as to
make no noise, "as a chap comes forward
after his trick to tickle of him under the chin
and make him smile. It'll be something to
miss. He had a way of hoisting up whatever
he might be a-playing with to show it
ye, that made a man feel like as if he'd been
saying of a prayer, ay, and feeling of it too.
What's there to snigger at in that, I should
like to know, cook .■^"

'' There's no sniggering in me," answered
the cook. " It's Johnny snuffling."

This was accepted as the fact, because
Johnny did not deny the charge. The
men's faces glimmered very feebly to the
starlight, and it was impossible to note expressions.


'' When a little chap like that there dies,"
said the cook, *' what becomes of him ?"

"Tarn to and read the Bible and find out,"
answered Stone, gruffly, but in a low voice.
** There's no call of being afraid of over-educating
yourself in that direction, Micky."

*well, I don't know," exclaimed Breeches.
I was acquainted with a man as owned to

belonging to a religious party what call
themselves the Select."

'' The Elect ye mean, perhaps," said
Archer.

'well, the H 'elect then. This chap said
he knew where he was a-going' to. He was
called, and was bound to be a hanged.
There was notion as could stop him. The
Lord had got hold of his helm, and he was
holding a course for Heaven true as a hair.
That was the result of spiritual over-education,
boys. He kept all on reading' and
reading' about souls and how they're saved
and the like, till he drifted into a regular
ocean of ideas, with such a sea mining that
his ballast shifted, and there he was with a
strong list, everything wrong, rudder gone,
compass overboard, everything adrift, and
him all the while cock-sure and not doubting
that if he could only see under his shoulder-blades
he'd find the wings a-sprouting."

'' I agrees with William," remarked Kitt,
meaning by William, Breeches. '' There,"
said he, pointing with a shadowy arm in
the direction of the tarpaulin, "lies one as
never thought, yet as compared with sits

chances, I should Hke to know what 'ud
be those of the hardest man as ever
studied himself into becoming boss of all
the parsons, Bishop o' Canterbury, or whatever
the name is ?"

"Well, "ain't a subject for adjudication,"
said Stone. " 'Army, slacken that wang a
trifle. Where are we going to pick up the
trade-wind, I wonder ?"

'this drowning' job isn't going to do
the lady much good, I doubt," exclaimed
Breeches. " She's an astonishing' mystery
to me, Mr. Stone. It's understood her
mem'ry's gone ; which been' so. how is it
everything isn't strange to her .^ How can
she tell where her hair is, what to do with
her boots, how to use a knife, how to recollect
the names of things she asks for, like water,
or bread, or tea ? Why, she dressed the little
un from head to foot ; how could she ha'
done it without mem ry ?''

You must always consider, Bill," said the
cook, speaking in a tone manifestly deprecatory
of any observation he might challenge
from Stone, '' that this lady may not have
been cast in the exact resemblance of other

folks. A party as is never more rational than
when she ain't got her intellects, which are
usually reckoned to be sealed up when people
are asleep," he added, referring to her sleepwalking,
'may set ye a- wondering, but she'll
defy ye to explain her."

'look here, Micky," said Stone, "when
ye're had enough of cooking', mate, you tarn
to an' become a nat'ral philosopher. A man
as can 'plain a thing by shown' it ain't
'attainable's going' to save money for his old
age, an' as philosophy's your forty don't ye
keep your prospects a-waiting'. The fact is,
Bill," said he, addressing Breeches, "the more
ye think of what's called the bjman mind
the less ye can make of it ; consequently
I'm for taking all wonderful things as happens
as they come, just as ye look at them there
stars ; satisfied to notice that they're bright
without troubling to consider how it is that
if they're made of earth like this here globe
they sparkles like polished silver. There's
no use in dropping a lead overboard and
keeping all on paying out line when ye
know there is no soundings to be got. Here
and there life shoals and ye get bottom ;

but it's mostly so deep that I tell ye the
furthest of them stars up there ain't murder
off than the ocean-bed of existence is from
the reach of our knowledge. Respecting
Miss Agatha Fox," he continued, speaking
with the complacency he must inevitably
feel from the flattering silence that attended
his speech, " it's like this to may notion ;
and I'll explain my idea in what they calls
a allegory. Ye can't understand how it
is she's got a recollection of things she asks
for, like when she calls for bread, or a knife,
or a fork, or hunts about for cotton to thread
her needle with. Well, this is my view.
Take a man with one blind eye, t'other eye
being all right ; and now imagine that this
here man isn't able to turn his head on the
side his blind eye is. Well, now it stands to
reason that if his weary oldest friend was to
sheer alongside of this blind eye the man
wouldn't know him, for the simple reason that
he couldn't see him. All on the blind side
'ud be darkness. On t'other side he could
see what was happening, and owing to the
vision being of such a nature that if a man
stares straight ahead he'll see more things

than he looks at, by side objects coming into
the range of his sight, he might be able to
perceive with the good eye just a little of
what 'ud come into the circle of the blind eye
if it could see. That's a allegory answering
to Miss Fox's case. One side of her brain's
in darkness. It's like a blind eye turned on
whatever comes before it. T'other side's all
right, and's got the power of taking in a little
of what 'ud fall into the spear of the dark
side, if that dark side was alive and sensible.
Small things, like needles, and coffee and the
like, are within that spear, and the right side
of her understanding catches hold of 'em ; but
big affairs, which needs her full brain to see,
are invisible to her. So there ye have it
'sprained in a allegory. Bill ; but I don't
mean to say it ain't puzzling, all the same."

Breeches grunted as though satisfied, but
some hoarse whispered comments were uttered
by the others, which must have plunged all
hands into a long discussion, had Stone been
impolitic enough to overhear them. Soon
again, however, the subtle, subduing influence
created by the little silent body under
the tarpaulin was felt by the men. Their

thoughts went to the infant, and they spoke
of him ; then Martin Goldsmith remembered
a creepy and chilly story of an apprentice
who had been an orphan, and was put to
sea by an uncle whom he had talked of asa
harsh and cruel man. This lad died
through a fall from the masthead. They
laid him out, and that same night an able
seaman named Moses Bogle, going aft to
take the wheel and passing by where the
body lay, saw the apparition of a female
with her fingers locked upon her forehead,
leaning over the body and suggesting by
her attitude that she had discovered who
the boy had been, and was in wild anguish.
'bogle was so frightened," said Goldsmith,
'that he ran back again into the fo'ksle, and
woke up all hands, who came on deck to seethe
apparition, but the figure had disappeared.
Yet there was not the least doubt that
Bogle had spoken the truth, for his
sincerity was shown by the effect the
sight produced upon his mind. He had
been a drunken, swearing fellow before, but
from that night he read the Bible regularly
and became a pious man." Anson, the cook,

VOL. III. p

had also his little yarn to deliver ; Archer
likewise told of a ghost, and old Breeches,
never to be beaten when it came to spinning
twisters, narrated In a gruff but tremulous
voice how his mother had been visited in
the dead of night by an elder brother of
his, who came to the street door when the
snow was a foot thick, with nothing on buta
pair of drill trousers. " There was a
moon," said Bill, 'rand she saw his face
plain, but as she'd only received a letter a
fortnight afore — he was In the Royal navy,
was Joseph — saying that the frigate had
reached Kingston, Jamaica, and was like
to be kept on that there station for some
months, she was so confounded, not more
by his turning up in that rig than by his
turning up at all, that she tumbled down
in a fit, the noise of which, alarming a
lodger that had a wooden leg, who shep'
in the back parlour, he shipped his leg and
came out, and seeing notion but mother
a-laying in a swound upon the mat, he
shuts the street door and carries her onto
a sofa, where, after a bit, she revived.
Well, what happened ?'' said old Breeches

turning his face, dim in the starlight, round
upon the men, the glistening of whose eyes
was the only discernible point in their dusky
countenances. *' Some time after, she got a
letter from the Admiralty, stating that her
son Joseph had been drownded by falling
overboard at night in Kingston harbour,
and it turned out that at the very time he
was under water the knock came at the
door, and mother see him a-standing in
the snow."

But it was hard upon eight bells ; Stone
had finished his pipe, and drawing himself up
with a look round at the sea, he said, 'well,
we live in a fantastic world, but there's no
use a-growling ;" and with that he walked
quietly aft, pausing a moment when abreast
of the tarpaulin and looking at it, and then
moving on afresh with a sigh. The men
after talking a little broke up. The first
watch had begun ; half the crew went below,
the others, who had to keep the deck, hung
together, walking in twos and twos, one pair
in the gangway, another in the forecastle.
The shadow of death was on the little ship,
and where the tarpaulin was the darkness

hung deep, and as often as the spot was
passed the footfall was softened, the low
voice sunk lower yet into a whisper. It
would be mere imagination, of course ; yet
the whole thing appeared as though accentuated
by the night ; by the steady, solemn
burning of the stars ; by the delicate swell
that underrate the schooner with a melancholy
respiration ; by the parting waters
stealing along in sounds of weeping ; by the
spectral wings of canvas slowly fanning the
darkness under the glittering heights ; by
the light moaning noises breaking out from
God knows what part of the interior of the
gliding fabric.

Even to thee, oh, tiny fragment of human
clay, there had come the marvellous gift of
death; the power of subduing to the complexion
of its inspirations whatever the eye
could behold, whatever the ear could hear.

The wind shifted in the night. It blew
but without much weight, from the north,
and the sun rose upon the Golden Hope
close-hauled, leaning slightly, three points
off her course. Fortescue, who, in accordance

with his regular custom, had turned
the key in Agatha's door overnight — with
greater solicitude on the occasion than he
had before felt, for he greatly feared the
perturbing influence of the sorrowful events
of the day upon her mind and the domination
of sorrow not less active in sleep than in
waking — Mr. Fortescue, on quitting his
own berth, lightly unlocked her door, and
after listening intently for some moments,
knocked. She answered by opening the
door. She was fully dressed, but had not
yet bound her hair up ; it was like a sun-touched
fountain raining down her back andover
her shoulders, wondrously plentiful and
most daintily rich and radiant ; her beauty,
pale and hard with melancholy — with such
melancholy as would possess a mind that was
without memory, without a remembered past
and the solace retrospection yields — met the
vision of the lover with the novelty he would
have found in a marble image of his darling.
There was a darkness under the ever gentle
eyes, a languor In the droop of the lids which
told of a troubled night. He held her hand
as he asked her how she had slept.

'not well," she answered ; '' I missed my
little companion " — her lip quivered.

Why, that was to be expected, Agatha,"
he said, calling her by her name, for there
was something in the stoniness grief had put
into her face, that to his sensitiveness repelled
the more endearing terms he was used to-employ
; " but time, that heals all, will soon
accustom you to the poor babe's absence."

She looked down as though she disdained
such an assurance as that, and said with
scarcely moving lips, like one thinking aloud,
** I caused his death. It was intended it
should be so. Why was memory taken from
me if it was not meant I should be alone —
alone !" She raised her hand as though to
press her forehead, but touching her hair she
seemed startled to find it hanging wild about
her, and with a faint blush of confusion she
made as though to close the door upon the
clergyman.

"Will you come to the table to breakfast,.
Agatha, or shall I bring a tray here ta
you :

'' I will come to the table," she answered.

He said softly, " The little one will be

buried at eleven. Is it your wish to be
present T'

'eyes," she responded, with an unusual
quickness, turning towards him. " Certainly, I
wish to be present."

Her manner checked him, otherwise he
might have asked her to consider whether
she would have the heart to witness the
slipping of the little hammock off its plank,
and to bear the gaze of the men, all of whom
would be assembled. She came to the 
when the meal was ready, but only
responded very faintly and briefly to Hiram's
respectful salute. Seeing it was not her
humour to speak, Weeks fell silent himself,
and breakfast was got through with scarce
more than a half-dozen of words between the
skipper and Mr. Fortescue. Her manner
was a blow to Weeks, who had been rehearsing
many observations of a consolatory
character. The truth is, he considered that
William Stone had enjoyed too large a share
of the privilege of advising the clergyman,
and sermonising both him and Miss Fox as
occasion required. He felt that his own
parts in this respect would remain unimagined

if he did not brush up the mind God had
given him, and denver the opinions which
formed in him during his watch on deck, or
his waking moments below. However, there
was no help for it. The inexpressible something
in Agatha's face and bearing that had
silenced even in Fortescue the impassioned
loving names he had hitherto called her by,
was acutely felt by Weeks also, as he sat
working away at a plate of rashers of bacon,
with a hasty ogle of her from time to time out
of the corner of one protruding eye.

When breakfast was over she rose quietly,
passing near the clergyman to say, "Will you
let me know when I am to come on deck for
the funeral ?"

Certainly," he answered.

Thereupon she went straight to her berth.
Hiram standing erect on his compass-like
legs, looked intently at Fortescue, as though
debating whether he should speak ; but it was
impossible for him to keep his tongue still.
He said, in a harsh, saw-like whisper : —

'' Never could have believed, sir, she had
so taken to that there child. Had she been
its own mother, the drowning of it couldn't

have caused her more grief. Pity it happened
all this way down here. It wouldn't so much
matter if this sorrow had fallen upon her when
we was even within a week's sail of England,
for then there'd be all the interests of the
shore close at hand to smother down her
lamentations a bit and, may be, as Bill
Stone thinks, to give her back her memory ;
in which case the joy she'd find in recollecting
of 'ee and beholding once again all them
old satisfactions which she can't now perceive,
would make this melancholy little job
seem small enough, though such is the
natural gentleness of her heart that I don't
mean to suppose she wouldn't always find
it affecting."

Fortescue had too sweet a nature ever to
show impatience at the good intentions of
others, no matter how distressing might bethe
form they took ; but Agatha had inspired
him with thoughts infinitely too deep for
utterance to such a man as Weeks, and with
fancies and fears which made him recoil from
the mere idea of talking about her. Weeks'
ambition to shine as a philosopher and a
moralist must therefore be baulked again.

The clergyman, with a bit of commonplace
on his lips which, strive his utmost, he could
not force into a smile, went to his berth, and
Hiram, passing the back of his hand with a
long sweep over his mouth, and with a slightly
crestfallen look, fitted a moleskin cap to his
head and climbed on deck to relieve old
Stone.

The morning passed quickly. It was now
a quarter to eleven. The men were below
in the forecastle, cleaning themselves for the
ceremony ; the young seaman, Joe Hall, was
at the tiller, and Stone, in his Sunday clothes,
paced the deck with a sober, pious look upon
his face. The schooner, heeled to the extent
of a strake by the breeze, was sailing quickly
but without noise, for the sea was smooth,
and what small billows the wind set running
were but little more than large ripples, with
curls of foam flashing out of their heads, here
and there, too light to break with sound
against the weather bow.

There was no bell to strike, but at eleven
o'clock the word went along, and the crew
lay aft, collecting at the gangway, whither
one of them came — no other than William

Breeches — bearing under his arm a plank
with the little body upon it, over which was
spread the English ensign. One end of this
plank he rested on the rail, the other he held.
He was bareheaded and kept his rugged,
weather-seamed face bowed. They had, these
plain merchant-sailors, but little choice of
clothes among them ; their mourning must
be gotten out of polished faces and hair
combed smooth, and clean shirts washed in
salt water, and, some of them, canvas trousers
whose tarry stains defied the scrubbing-brush
and the lee scuppers. They were promptly
joined by Hiram and Stone, the former, like
his mate, clad in his best suit. Upon the
skipper's long, gaunt, yellow face, grief, of a
mute-like type, was nicely calculated to sit
becomingly ; but had he been acting sorrow
all his life, no expression of it he could have
assumed could come near to a likeness of the
manly, pathetic honesty of feeling you saw in
his eyes, when after letting them rest for a
few moments on the little burden, he turned
them upon the deck at his feet, gazing so till
he had hastened his wide mouth out of the
twitching in the extremities of it.

In a few moments Fortescue came out of
the companion with Agatha. The clergyman
took his place close to the body. The men
backed away a little to make room, particularly
leaving a space for Agatha, facing the
gangway. Her face was painfully white ;
the most ignorant glance would have traced
the marks of the grief the loss of the child
had impressed upon her. The hollows in
her eyes were noticeable for the darkness in
them, and for the aspect of illness they gave
to her. It was difficult to look at her and
not observe the fading that had happened in
twenty-four hours, without guessing that there
had been an artificiality in her island bloom,
in that warm, flushed, tropic glow of beauty
which had amazed Fortescue to see in her and
which had lingered scarce unimpaired, down to
the last week or two, when it began to dim,
to her secret fretting. She fixed her eyes
on the ensign that covered the plank, and
seemed utterly insensible to all things but the
fancies that came to her from the outline
defined by the thin bunting. The sailors
looked at her slightly ; their respect was too
strong to suffer their glance to approach a

Stare, and then again it was a moment to
subdue them and to sharpen their natural
regret at the loss of the little one whom they
had watched, talked to and learned to love,
into briny pity and a rough sort of grief.
Still, they could not help peeping at her, for
she stood near ; her powerlessness and fixed
gaze, her still, wrapt posture, invited their
regard. It is true that Archer had cleared
their minds of the superstition she had excited
in them, but the memory of the fancies they
had had about her recurred. This was the
girl, some of them thought in their own rude
tongue, who had been beheld by that clergyman
yonder, when at a distance of thousands
of miles from her, kneeling upon the shore of
the island, then rising and appealing to him to
come to her ; from whom sickness had fallen
as a garment, after memory had been shocked
out of her by brutality ; whose past had blackened
upon her mind and was as dead to her
as the infant upon the plank there, though in
sleeping she could recollect, and standing
under the starlight at the rail of the schooner
look across the rounded sea to England from
the Indian Ocean, and talk with her lover as

if he were there Instead of being at her side,
and appeal to him as if there was no sanity
for her but in slumber, though when she
opened her eyes in waking she turned them
like a blind woman upon him !

The schooner swayed gently ; at every
man's foot his shadow swung, and in the
pause that fell, whilst Fortescue opened his
book ere raising it to read, you would have
heard nothing but the innumerable whisperings
of the water, delicately seething and
softly sliding past, as though there were
spirits over the side answering in faint notes
the muffled questionings of the winds, that
hummed like the buzzing of flies heard afar
amid the complicated cordage, and past the
bolt ropes of the steady cloths.

Mr. Fortescue began to read. It was a
familiar office to him, and his voice was low,
steady and sad, but sweet with cultivated
utterance. The moment he commenced,
Breeches quietly pulled the ensign off the
little hammock, ready for the final launch,
since he could not imagine when the word
would be given, having but the very
slenderest acquaintance with the burial service,

and therefore seeing 'everything clear,"
as a true sailor should, under all circumstances.
It was noticed that a shudder
wrenched Agatha from head to foot, that her
fingers closed into the palms as if the nails
would cut the flesh there, and that she let a
breath fly from her in a passionate sigh, that
was like a faint cry to those who stood
nearest, when the hammock was exposed ;
otherwise she held herself steady with her
eyes rooted upon the little body.

But it was indeed a sight to melt any
heart. Never had the blue of heaven
looked down upon a tinder hammock. In
its littleness mainly lay the appeal that
stirred the men when the old seaman laid
bare the minute ocean-shroud. Old Stone's
eyes were wet, Hiram folded his arms
tightly across his breast and hung his head,
and Archer, after a short look at the baby
outline, turned his head aside with his handover
his face.

Mr. Fortescue continued reading slowly,
with a thrill running through his voice fora
moment as he lifted his eyes from the
book and directed them at the plank, but

old Stone was observed to suddenly squeeze
a knuckle Into his eyes and regard Agatha
askant, but with a steadfast watchfulness of
gaze that must have made you see his mind
was wholly off the funeral, and that he was
thinking of nothing but what he looked at.

A change had come over her, too. She"
had broken away from her intent stare at
the baby, and was now gazing at Mr. Fortescue,
with a singular expression slowly
entering her face and stirring in every
twitch and line of It, and gradually dilating
her eyes and lifting her brows like a
slow poison of madness working in her
brain. No one appeared to notice this but
Stone.

Mr. Fortescue read: 'ewe therefore commit
his body to the deep to be turned into corruption


He paused, with a glance at Breeches,,
which the old man instantly understood.
With a quick movement he raised the end of
the plank, and the tiny white hammock
flashed from the rail like a bird of snowy
plumage taking flight. Hall, at the tiller,
instinctively turned his head to look over the

quarter, but the passing water, sobbing along
the bends, had caught the bubble and swept
it into the sunshine in the wake, and in a
breath it was gone, symbolising the banishment
of the little one in a manner fit truly to
deepen the hope expressed in the words,
looking for the resurrection of the body
when the sea shall give 2tp Tier dead), and
the life of the world to come, through our
Lord Jesus Ch 7'ist.

The clergyman was proceeding, solemnity
gathering in his rich voice now that the plank
had been tilted, and the feeling was that the
nameless little stranger that had come to
them for their love and ministration was at
last truly at peace, and in the bosom of Him
who had called him, when, on a sudden, Stone
cried out, " Mr. Fortescue, look at Miss Fox,
sir !

She was standing as though transfixed,
with an expression on her of wildest astonishment,
that of its own emotional force had
given a colour to her face and brought the
blood to her cheeks. Her eyes were opened
to their fullest extent. It was as if a spirit
moved before her — something that had at

VOL. Ill Q

first filled her with an amazement like horror,
though the terror was passing, and the lustre
of delight was dimly sifting through the
astonished, half incredulous, half terrified
stare that she had fixed upon her lover. She
tottered once or twice as if she would fall.
She sought to speak, but her lips turned
white with the effort, and her throat crimsoned
as with strangulation ; but ere Mr. Fortescue
could spring towards her, she had uttered his
name. " Malcolm!" at first in a choking cry,
but then, " Malcolm ! Malcolm ! Malcolm !"
thrice, in shrieks ; and with a leap she was
upon his breast, her hands locked round his
neck, her head upon his bosom.

'agatha," he cried, 'you know me at last!
Your memory has returned to you ! Beloved
one ! Call me again by name !"

Her clasp relaxed. She fainted.

'Tis the baby's doing," said Stone, aloud,
looking round; "she loved him, and he repays
her by giving her her memory back. It came
with the launching of the hammock. I
watched it working in her. Great God !
how beautiful it is to think of a woman's
happiness returning to her as a gift of love

from the little 'un she'd been as a mother
to !" And with working lips and eyes again
brimming over, the old man stepped to the
rail, and looked along the glittering furrow
of the schooner towards the spot where the
body of the little one had vanished.

THE NEW DAWN.

It was the girl's second swoon in twenty-four
hours, but this time there was a death-lines
in it that grew terrifying. The ashen
pallor was of the grave, and through the parted
lids the white of the eyes showed like that of
a corpse. For a moment or two Fortescue
alone knew she had fainted, then Hiram
seeing what had happened, sprang to help
him, and between them they bore her below.
The momentary transport of joy in the
curate turned to terror as he leaned over her,
loosening her dress whilst Hiram hurried
for water and other restoratives. She was
pulseless. Her bosom lay motionless as a
piece of sculpture. He drew forth with
trembling hand a little looking-glass which
he held to her lips, but it remained untarnished.
It was as sure as that the child

was dead, as that the schooner was upon the
sea, as that the heavens looked down upon
all, that she had recognised him, and that
her memory had therefore returned. Was it
possible that the mad leap of the revitalised
faculty from the tomb in her brain in which
it had been lying dead had broken her heart ?
Sudden joys, sudden griefs have been known
to kill, but think of the power, the force of
the emotions which must have swept into her
with lightning swiftness, when the curtain
was dropped from her mind and her lover
stood before her !

Minute after minute went by. Ceaselessly
the curate moistened her brow, chafed her
hand, did what he knew, with a prayer to
God going up in every breath that left him ;
whilst Hiram, grasping a stancheon, stood
erect, mute and waiting. A whole half-hour
passed, as full, to the clergyman, of
misery as a lifetime of suffering could have
contained, and to the seaman steadfastly and
silently watching, of deeper anxiety than he
had ever felt in the wildest weather at sea.
Then on a sudden they heard a faint sigh,
her fingers twitched, something of living

colour entered palely into her white lips. A
sigh again broke from her, this time like
the respiration of one dreaming sorrowfully
in sleep. She opened her eyes, looked
strangely about her as though her rest had
been induced by a powerful narcotic, until
her sight coming to Mr. Fortescue, an expression
of wonder, delight, amazement,
brightened in them, and she suddenly sat
erect, crying yet again with hands extended
to him, '^ Malcolm! Malcolm! My Malcolm!"
He took her in his arms ; he could not
speak ; his full heart gave way and he wept
with his face against her cheek as he held her
to him. Captain Weeks walked to the companion
and stood mid-way on the steps with
his head outside the hatch, where he was
within call, though he could not hear their
conversation, and where he could act as
sentinel. Fortescue mastered his deep agitation
after a little, but until he did so she did
not move. She felt his need of concealing
his face whilst he strove with his tears, and
even In that marvellous moment of the
return of memory, and whilst still fresh and
confused from her swoon, she soothed him

with her cheek to his, and left the sweet
pillow of her shoulder motionless for his comfort.
But the instant he stirred, as if to lift
his head, she started from his embrace, and,
seizing his hands, fell back to the length of
her arms with a long, yearning, searching look
at his face — a wondrous stare for eyes so soft
and gentle as hers to fix, so full was it of
astonishment, inquiry, passionate delight,
conflicting with incredulity and breathless
amazement.

"Malcolm!" she said, in a low voice that
thrilled with the feelings which her eyes
looked ; " Malcolm !" she repeated, in a
tone that deepened as it sank towards a
whisper, 'ris it you, dearest one, is it y 021,
my own, from Wyloe ? Where am I ?
This is a ship ; it is not the island." She
looked slowly around, labouring to master
the meaning of what she saw, till she brought
her eyes to rest again upon her lover. "Malcolm,"
she continued, letting fall his hand to
press her forehead with a gesture she had
often used since she had been on board
the schooner, "have I been sleepiness Do
I still sleep, and dream?" An expression of

terror now swept across her face, obliterating
its bright expression of intelligence, and she
rolled her eyes hysterically.

Fortescue saw the task before him. He
had a will that had served him well on more
than one occasion. He exerted it to thrust
down out of sight the emotions welch had
overwhelmed him, and his fine intellect went
swiftly to work to consider how he should
act, how he should deal with the delicate,
bewildering, dangerous problem that agatha's
condition of mind submitted. The zvhole truth
might craze her ; he must speak with the
utmost caution, for the present at least, since
it was possible that the faculty of memory
might prove weak and treacherous after its
long stupor ; and It was certain, at all events,
that her recent swoon must to a degree have
enfeebled her mind, which would require time
and the growth of spirits in her, and startled
perception of the happiness that had come
back from behind the veil, to recover its old
tone.

'agatha," he said, holding and caressing
her hand, '' you have passed through some
strange experiences ; but It is well with us

both now. thanks be to Almighty God. Have
no fear. All that has happened Is as natural
as sorrow Is, or the shining of the sun. or the
darkness upon the earth when the night
comes. Your clear sense will presently see It
all."

She Interrupted him. " Malcolm, the Verum
was burnt at sea, and I was placed In a
boat, the only woman In It — separated from my
father. The boat was steered by the boatswain
of the ship, a man named Archer, who,
during our terrible sufferings, treated me with
noble goodness. We reached an Island. This
man saved me from drowning ; for the boat
was overset In the surf, and — and — where am
I now ? Where Is the Island ?" There was
again a look of consternation and amazement
In her wide open eyes.

Do not you remember." he said, gently,
hoping to coax memory along In her. "that
I came to fetch you from the Island In this
schooner, that I landed and found you and
Archer on the Island, and brought you off to
this vessel, telllnof you that under God's Qruld-
ance I had sought and found you, and that we
were going home, my beloved, going home to

dear old Wyloe, and to our friends there, and
to our marriage ?"

His hand trembled. He would have raised
hers to his lips, but the bewilderment in her
face arrested him and brought him back to his
resolution of calmness and self-control.

'' No, I do not remember. You say you
found me on the island — strange ! — I do not
remember !" — and she frowned in her fierce
struggle with thought.

My darling," he said, still speaking very
softly, guessing the truth, 'tell me to what
point does your memory carry you."

She took her hand from his, and leaned
her temples upon her fingers, shutting her
eyes. After a little she said slowly, and with
intensity, '' I remember three men on the
island. One was Archer ; he was very good
to me. He made me a bed in a little cavern.
He supplied me with food and water — such
food as could be got — taking care that I
should never want. I remember the dreadful
loneliness of those days, the constant thunder
of the surf that would sound like a roaring of
wild beasts when the night was still. I
remember feeling ill — so ill ! and dreading

that I should die before help could come, and
that we should never meet again, Malcolm ;
though I had but small hope that we should
be rescued ; for I often heard the men talk
of the island being out of the track of ships
I remember that." There was a pause ;^
she repeated, "Yes, I remember that. What
has happened since ?"

Down to this she had spoken with her eyes
closed, but when she asked the question she
let fall her hands and looked full at her lover.
For some moments he did not know what to
say. It was as plain to him by her manner as
was the silver splendour which lay upon the
skylight to his eyes, that the revivification of
her memory stopped short at her sufferings
upon the island, bringing her down may be,
though he dared not enquire that — to her
struoforle with the seaman, and her swoon out
of which she awoke with her mind blinded.
All things this side, including that struggle,
were as dead to her as her previous past had
before been. He believed so, at least ; he
could not look at her and doubt it. The
mysterious mechanism of the mind had shifted
its burthen of darkness from one side of it to

J

the other. It was a marvellous thing for
him to witness in her, and he felt a
numbness coming out of it into his heart,
when, with the rapidity of thought, he considered
that the recurrence of memory might
be but a passing, passionate effort of the
soul ere it lapsed into a blackness that
should stand as a lifelong eclipse of all
recollection in her.

Steadying his voice he said, /' My darling,
you have passed through so much, so much
that is heartbreaking even to think of, it is
not wonderful that memory in mercy should
hide from you a portion of the sufferings of
your shipwreck. Can you recall ny circumstance
associated with our passage, so far,
from the island ?''

She answered, ''I do not know where
I am."

'* If I tell you," he exclaimed, 'that this is
a little sailing vessel bearing you home to
Wyloe, can you understand me ?''

Oh, Malcolm, yes," she answered, with a
sweet smile.

Do you recollect," he inquired, " a
French ship asking us if we would take

charge of a little baby that her people had
picked up at sea ?"

'' No," she answered, with a strained expression
in her eyes. There was a shadowing
of tears, too, in the grey depths, with a hint
of renewed terror growing.

He broke off in the sentence he had
commenced, and cried out, " agatha, dearest
one — some things have happened which you
cannot recall, but the true, the lovely, the
sacred past is with you again, with you withall
its love, and sunshine, and hopes. With
you as I am, I who sought you and found
you, though you knew me not, and for
weeks have not known me, till this hour.
It is enough for us, my precious one ! God
has answered my prayer. You know me -
you remember me — you can pronounce

my name " He flung himself on his

knees, grasping her round the waist, gazing
up Into her face with eyes of moving
adoration; whilst she, putting her hands upon
his head, pressed her lips to his forehead, and,
speechless for many moments, they gazed at
each other as though in a trance, amazement
in her sleeping for awhile under the brooding

emotion of joy, slowly perfecting itself with
the perception of the reality of his beloved
presence.

Hiram, peeping down the companion-way,
saw them thus engrossed, and stepping on
deck told Stone to keep clear of the cabin for
the present, as though, for his part, he did
not know much about love-making, he didn't
need to be told that Fortescue and the lady
were much too interested in the talk they had
fallen into, to desire to be interrupted.

'' Do she know him ?" asked Stone.

"Like one o'clock. Bill," responded Weeks.
''Guv him his name slick out in a voice like
singing."

I always said a little thing 'ud do it," said
Stone. "A little thing he was, too. God
receive him ! — as affectionate in his death asa
holy angel, Hiram ; for take my word for
it, 't was his love and gratitood for all she'd
done for him as guv her back her memory."

The old man sent a wandering glance into
the blue distance over the stern.

We've made use of that fancy afore. Bill,"
exclaimed Hiram, "but I don't rightly follow
it."

Stone looked hard over the side for a
minute whilst he thought.

'* Well," said he, " I allow It's one of them
fancies as must catch hold of the understanding
at once, because they're too delicate for
explanation. There's a good many Ideas as
is best left alone if they don't make themselves
intelligible right out of hand."

*ray, that may be right enough," said
Hiram, "but see here, Bill; I ain't a fool,
matey ; and if a fancy's plain to yoic I don't
see why it shouldn't be plain to me''

Now, old Stone exactly understood the
fancy that had seized him, but when he came
to trying to express it he was at a loss. Ashe
would afterwards say, ideas frequently
occurred to him when he was lying in his
bunk or drowsily standing his watch on a
quiet night, which seemed to him full of
beauty and poetry. They were in his mind,
and he was able to think them out, yet he
could no more have expressed them in words
than he could have transformed the reflection
of a star into the star itself. How could he
make Hiram understand, having no language
in which to shape his notion? His conception

was that the devotion of Agatha had
been rewarded by the baby in his death ;
for the coming back of her memory at the
moment of the child's burial was like a
sudden spiritualism of her, and God's
presence having been wondrously visible in
every passage of the schooner's mission, why
should not a miracle have been wrought
through the instrumentality of the bairn — a
miracle symbolising a woman's love, and
hope, and happiness, springing from the
ashes of the nameless babe she had taken
to her blinded heart and cherished ? But
Stone could not explain. He felt indeed
that if he should attempt to do so he must
flounder, and perhaps destroy to himself the
fancy he was proud of and reckoned as
being highly poetical because it was his own.
So he got rid of the subject by asking
Weeks what Agatha had said when she
awoke from her faint, and this induced a chat
about the clergyman and Miss Fox, incidents
of the voyage, the time likely to be occupied
in reaching home, and so forth, which put
the men elbow to elbow, and set them
patrolling the deck with a sense of Sunday

Strong upon them, owing to their being
dressed in their best clothes, whilst the
schooner, still off her course, pushed swiftly
through the dark-blue waters with the
shadows ever swaying like pendulums upon
her deck, and in the shining hollows of her
sails.

A long hour passed. Forward the men
had finished their dinner, shifted into their
old tarry rigs, and were at their various employments.
The cook, with sulky eyes,
frequently peered out of the galley, in the
hope of intimating, by the expression on his
countenance, that the cabin dinner was fast
spoiling. Johnny came aft. and wanted to
know if he should lay the cloth ; but had the
lovers chosen to remain together for the rest
of the day, Hiram would not have had them
disturbed. At last Fortescue came on deck.
He was pale, but there was a look of peace
and quiet gladness in his face, which both
Stone and Hiram instantly noticed. He approached
them and said, " We have been
selfish enough to occupy the cabin to your
exclusion. I find it is long past the dinner
hour."

VOL. III. R

'* Oh, don't mention that, sir," said Hiram.

Miss Fox Is now lying down," continued
the clergyman. " I doubt If any girl ever
went through more than she has, physically
and mentally."

'she has her memory, sir?" said Stone,
respectfully.

"Ay, Mr. Stone, thank God she has her
memory," exclaimed Fortescue. " It has
returned to her perfect, down to the dreadful
circumstance that caused her to lose It ; of all
that has happened since then she knows
nothing."

Nothing !" exclaimed Stone.

'' Nothing r repeated the clergyman, with
solemn emphasis.

'great thunder!" burst out Hiram, coming
to a dead stand.

Don't she remember our coming to heron
the Island, sir ?" cried Stone.

"No."

"Nor the baby?" Inquired Hiram, 'in a
breathless way.

"It is wonderful! wonderful!" exclaimed
Fortescue, clasping his hands, "yet it Is so.
She remembers nothing down to her swooning

three hours ago. She has no recollection
of the baby, nor of its burial, which has just
taken place. It seems incredible. I stepped
into her berth before she entered it to conceal
-all memorials of the poor little one — happily,
Mr. Stone, you had already removed the crib
so that the light questions I put to her to
test her memory of the baby, and of other
incidents connected with the passage from
the island, might not win a significance to
frighten her by proofs of the things I spoke
to her about. I will ask you. Captain Weeks,
and you. Mr. Stone, to make no reference to
the child, nor to anything which has happened
since we left the island, in her presence. It
is best that she should slowly realise that the
memor' which ought to cover the past few
months is a blank. There is nothing to
scare her in this nor to alarm me ; indeed, I
would rather she should have the truth in my
own version of it. It is, I take it, a special act
of God's mercy that the horrible incident of her
island life should be hidden to her for ever,
and as a thing likely to keep her heart sad it
is as well, perhaps, Mr. Stone," looking at the
old man with an emotion almost of affection

kindling in his fine dark eyes, "that the
memory of our poor little baby should be
sealed from her."

Both Stone and Hiram knuckled their
foreheads in recognition of the clergyman's
wishes, and then Stone said, "If she hasher
memory perfect down to the point you
name, what more could she need, sir, providing,
of course, that she goes on afresh
from this morning without any more stoppages
?"

There's only this," said Hiram, with a
nervous look aloft and a hesitating glance
around, ''if Miss Fox has got no memory
of this here voyage, she'll never be able to-appreciate
the way we made the island she
was cast upon, nor the sailing of the Golden
Hope, and her behaviour in all sorts of
weather. "

Oh, but she will," said Fortescue, smiling.
"Her present memory will enable her to
preserve the recollection of what I tell her
touching the voyage, and that being so,
Captain Weeks, it will be my fault if she
doesn't fully appreciate the beauty of this
little vessel, your skill as a navigator, and

the loyalty and high qualities of our great-hearted
old friend here," and he laid his hand
upon Stone's shoulder.

"Well, sir," said Stone, looking as though
this condescending act of INIr. Fortescue would
break him down, " I can only say from the
bottom of my soul I'm glad — I'm glad things
have turned out as they have. I always felt
as that a little thing 'ud do it."

Stone thinks the baby did It, ]Mr. Fortescue,"
said Hiram.

The lady's memory," observed Stone,
looking down upon the deck, "a-coming back
to her at the moment when the little hammock
flashed off the plank into the water, seemed
to me as if it was the gratitood of the infant
for Miss Fox's cherishing of him that did it.
Hiram here don't understand," continued the
old man, with a glance at the skipper, *' but
that ain't my fault."

/ understand," said Mr. Fortescue,
thoughtfully, and obviously impressed by
the rough sailor's fancy.

"Well, it's beyond my learning," exclaimed
Hiram, slightly vexed, apparently, by the
clergyman's ready apprehension of Stone's

notion, 'but a ship's fo'ksle ain't much of
a college, and so there's no call for me to
'apologise. Here you, Johnny!" he bawled,,
"bear a hand now with the cabin dinner.
How's her head, Jim?"

The course was given.

"Ha!" exclaimed Hiram. "So she's come
up to it? Bill," said he, turning to Stone,
"if the trades ain't humming in our rigging
to-night you shall call me a farmer, and
watch me pick the hayseeds out o' my
hair."

When dinner was served, Fortescue stole
softly to Agatha's door to ascertain if she
was awake. Not hearing her, he noiselessly
peeped in, and observed her in deep sleep.
If ever love is stirred in the fond heart of
a man it is when he leans over his beloved,
watching her face in slumber. Whatever of
sweetness or loveliness there is, whatever of
gentleness of expression, of womanly purity
of lineament, is chastened into deeper eloquence
of aspect by the serenity of sleep,
Agatha lay in her bunk, with her cheek resting
on her hand, her face towards the cabin
door ; the high sunshine flowed in sparkling

gushing through bull's-eye and scuttle, but
so slenderly, owing to the smallness of the
points of admission, as to mellow rather than
illuminate the atmosphere of the berth, so
that just such a light rested upon the girl as
the enchanting simplicity of her beauty would
show the most tenderly in. The clergyman
stayed a little while to gaze upon her. She
was his own now, such as she had not been
since she had started from him when he
found her in her leafy home on the island,
and the joy of this knowledge made love and
gratitude fervent in him beyond words ; for
he need dread no longer her perpetual blindness
to that past in which their affection
had its growth ; he need no longer half-despairingly
dream of rearing upon the
blackened caverns of her memory another
love, whose roots would have but such soil to
feed on as her new existence should be able
to thinly scatter over them ; he need no
longer dread the withering up of her fair and
fruitful intellect by the deadly blight of
melancholy. She lay before him, his Agatha
of Wyloe, his heart's delight, his first and
only and enduring love ; beautiful in her

sleep with a smile of rest upon her lips. Then
indeed, with a force of realization he had
never before reached to, chilled and checked
as he had been by her unrecognising eyes,
by her growing despondency and frosty
insensibility ; then his mind compassed the
whole significance of his voyage ; the desolation
and misery God had sent him to rescue
her from ; the glorious privilege conferred
upon him by his Maker, of finding upon, and
delivering from, a tiny rock upon the boundless
immensity of the ocean, the one in all
this world who was so dear to him that the
greatness of his emotion rebuked in his own
heart every effort to give it utterance, as
unworthy of the truth.

He left her sleeping, and seated himself
with the two plain seamen, both of whom
took care to tell him that sleep was the best
thing for her, that the brain found energy in
repose, and so forth ; and they conversed
with such a strenuous effort of whisper that
they purpled their faces with their singular
attempts to make little more than inarticulate
hoarseness stand for sympathetic opinion and
solid advice.

Anyway, good care was taken that the
most delicate meal the schooner could provide
should be ready for Agatha when she
awoke, which happened five hours after she
had withdrawn to her berth. With sleep-flushed
beauty she came timidly from her
berth, pausing in the doorway with spangles
on every loose hair that stuffed above her
head, caught from the westering, crimson
lustre upon the skylight, and resembling
particles of gold-dust floating over her. Her
lover, who had been thrice to her berth to
assure himself that she still slept and that all
was well, sat, as he had sat for an hour, at
the cabin table, patient and often listening,
with a book before him. She cried out,
'* Malcolm, my darling! My darling! My
dreams have been all about you."

He took her in his arms and brought her
to the table, scanning with deepest love her
features, and striving, as you would have
said, to pierce to her very soul through the
soft grey light of her eyes. How great
was the change ! It was all the difference
between the statue of marble and the same
peerless shape warmed into flesh and blood,

and spiritualised ! The unheeding, sorrowful
look of the eyes, bitterly wistful when gazing
away into distance, was gone ; the radiance
of memory was in them ; the full illumination
of perfect intelligence was upon her face.
Marvellous transformation ! Could it be,
indeed, as poor, unlettered old Stone had
suggested, that it was the little baby's gift of
love ; that, as a tiny bairn, being nearer than
all mortal things of older growth to the
angels, the mite had been chosen as a
messenger, and called back to Heaven, having
worked out the end he had been sent to
fulfil ? It was a fancy that at this moment
fired Fortescue's superstitious mind, and his
brain was full of it as he held the girl to him,
searching her face.

Her long sleep had greatly refreshed her,
and completely steadied her mind. She could
not remove her eyes from her lover. There
was a perpetual surprise of joy in her gaze,
and whilst she sat at the meal that he had
provided for her, she would not let him leave
her side ; and often she slipped her hand into
his, looking up at him with a happiness full of
wonder. During the while they had been together

in the cabin, before she withdrew to
her berth to sleep, he had taken care to test
her memory by the Highest references only to
the past, more particularly to his voyage in
search of her. Her condition had demanded
this precaution, because, although her memory
was active enough to satisfy him that the
faculty was intact, saving its blindness to
the things of the past few weeks, yet there
had been a certain vagueness, a kind of confusion
in her way of looking back and thinking
and talking of such recollections as he
carefully and softly invited her to. Xor
indeed could he be sure that, though the
power of recalling the past had come to her.
it would remain, seeing how a long span, dating
from the day of her discovery upon the
island down to that morning, was as dead to
her as though the events included in it had
been dreamt of by him alone, and were without
reality. But now as he conversed, he
observed how sleep had sharpened and invigorated
her faculties ; and this encouraging
him, he told her by degrees, with many a
loving look between them, and pauses for
emotion, how it had come about that he had

sought her on that tiny Island, whereon she
had been cast by shipwreck.

He related how he had stood upon Deal
beach watching the Indiamen gliding under
the stars, and vanishing round the Foreland,
with the meteor breaking and expiring over
her masthead ; how In his sleep he had
beheld the full picture of the burning of the
Merula ; the open boat In which she sat
with Archer at her side, and dead men lolling
over the bows, and figures languishing
and death-stricken upon the thwarts ; how
he had witnessed the upsetting of the boat In
the surf, her rescue by Archer, her thanksgiving
for her deliverance, her appeal to him
with outstretched arms to come to her.

The tears sprang Into her eyes when he
came to this part. She murmured, '* I remember
! I remember ! It was a wild,
strange, perhaps mad hope In me, Malcolm,
that by stretching out my arms to you, where
I could behold you In Imagination, you might
see me, too, and know my condition, and
come to me. What was In my mind I can
recollect. Some story you once told me, darling,
showing the power love gives to the

heart, of making its thoughts known to
another, though widely sundered as the ends
of the world."

A little colour entered her cheeks, and she
hung her head to say under her breath,
*' That was the fancy in my mind, Malcolm,
even at such a moment."

He pressed her hand and went on to relate
how, after he had dreamt of her, he had
awakened and found in his room a drawing
of the island he had beheld in his sleep; how,
one day, news came of the destruction of the
Merula, every particular of which, as he
afterwards discovered, exactly tallied with the
details of his vision ; how this had satisfied
him that the information of his dream was a
direct whisper from a merciful and loving
God. He spoke of his offer of a reward to
anyone who should tell him where the island
was ; he told how the little drawing he had
circulated had fallen into Stone's hands and
brought the old seaman to call upon him at
Wyloe, and how, acting under Stone's advice,
he had purchased the schooner and sailed to
the Indian Ocean to seek her. She listened
at times breathlessly. x-\ look of awe, that

made her beauty Indescribable, came upon
her when he mentioned his vision, and how
he had drawn a sketch of the island in his
sleep with such accuracy that Stone, who
had been wrecked there, instantly recognised
it. In this, as in other incidents he mentioned,
she could witness now, as he had witnessed
all along, the near, actual presence and interposition
of the Most High. He felt her
tremble ; she leaned her head as if in worship.
To her pure and righteous mind her lover's
narrative gave indeed a sanctity to the very
atmosphere about them. It was as if they
had been chosen agents for a miracle designed
to exhibit Heaven's shaping and controlling
power, by an illustration outside the
familiar discipline of the universe, and not
without correspondence with the old wonderful
workings of the Unseen Hand.

As both Weeks and Stone took particular
care not to intrude upon them, the time
slipped insensibly away over their long conversation,
their scores of questions, their frequent
caresses and prayerful pauses ; for
indeed this was their first meeting, heart to
heart, soul to soul, since he had bade her

farewell on board the \'erulam ; and there
were a thousand things to speak and ask
about, and to recall. Until in due course
the cabin glooming rapidly to the quick twilight
of those parts, Fortescue started and
looked at his watch.

*' Let us go on deck," he exclaimed. " We
have been nearly the whole day below."

He fetched her hat for her, for it was observable
that she was now at fault in things
which had Qrrown familiar to her during the
passage from the island. It was his sealskin
cap, for she had Stone's big hat on the other
side of the Cape, and had been wearing the
warmer headgear through and along the
chilly parallels. She took it, looked at it with
a smile, and put it on her head with the most
womanly, natural glance in the world at the
strip of glass fixed against the bulkhead. On
their emerging she came to a stand at the
hatch, with one hand upon the companion or
hood of it, glancing up and then forward with
eager, inquiring eyes, the expression in which
was visible enough to the clergyman, for the
sunset yet lay in a dusky blush low down over
the sea-line.

'' And this," she exclaimed, in a low voice,.
'' is the vessel that came to us to the island —
the vessel you bought to rescue me with ? "
She seized his hand, holding it tightly.

It was wonderful to hear her, shocking indeed,
for the space of a breath to Fortescue.
There had been a dreadful mental mystery to
him in the gaze of her eyes turned upon him
without recognition, but yet when the first
crushing effects of it upon him had been
eased by time, and he had thought closely
over it, he had ceased to find anything violent
in the phenomenon she submitted of an intellect
operating with apparent healthfulness and
clearness, whilst shorn of one of the essential
principles of reason. But her not knowing
the schooner after the long weeks she had
spent on board, her standing at the hatch
and looking around her, and speaking of the
vessel as something she was now beholding
for the first time, staggered and dumb-foundered
him. It was certain that the
memory she had brought with her from the
island was artificial, without any depth, and
that its going was like the banishment of
a bubble, that in bursting wastes upon the

'^^:^1

colourless air the hundred gleaming pictures
its iridescent texture had reflected.

He rallied promptly, and putting her arm
under his. led her to Stone and Weeks.

'' This," he said, looking at the mate, " is
Mr. Stone, who brought me a description of
the island and its whereabouts. Without
him I should not have been able to save
you."

She took the old fellow's hand ; he pulled
off his cap, bowing himself respectfully whilst
she spoke.

'' I thank you for my life, Mr. Stone,"
she said. '' Mr. Fortescue has told me a
wonderful story. You happening to know
the island he saw in his dream is not the
least marvellous part of it."

*' And this," said Mr. Fortescue, '' is
Captain Weeks, to whose skilful navigation
we are indebted for our speedy recovery
of you."

Hiram flourished his cap as if he were
signalling a distant ship ; but, like Stone,
he made no reply, for the simple reason
that, like Stone, he was taken unawares
and had nothing ready.

VOL. III. s

Since she had not known the schooner, it
was impossible to suppose that she recognised
Stone and the captain ; but this could not be
known because the clergyman's action had
been an introduction of her, so to speak, and
under the circumstances she would have
addressed them in the same way whether she
remembered them or not. She asked for
Archer. Stone went forward, and in a minute
or two Archer came along the deck. It was
now very nearly dark. She looked close into
his face to see, and then instantly recognising
him, brought her hands together in a quick
passionate clasp, and cried, " Oh ! Mr. Archer,
'tis good of God to have led my love into the
solitude of the ocean to save us. That you
should have been preserved — you, whose
goodness to me, whose care for me in the boat
was that of an Englishman of noble heart —
you who protected me on the island, obtained
food for me, found me a shelter, watched over

me " She broke off, and then vehemently

turning to Fortescue she exclaimed, " Oh,
Malcolm, the saving of this man, this brave
and generous seaman, makes my deliverance
doubly sweet to me ! "

'' And to me," said Mr. Fortescue.

Cap in hand, standing erect, Archer said,
■" I did but what was right, miss. I thank
you for your good words. I shall treasure
your praise."

The girl remaining silent, the clergyman
found she was crying. He said, " My darling,
I must not let you overtax yourself. It has
been a day full of wonder and happiness for
us both." He leaned aside towards Archer
and whispered, "She has her memory, dear
friend. All of her past she remembers to —
to the hour in that dreadful night. This
passage, from the island down to to-day is
an utter blank. Let it be so."

** Right, sir," answered Archer, in the
same swift whisper in which Fortescue had
addressed him, '' and I say thank God she
knows ye, for I understand what that must
mean for both you and her." He pulled a
lock of hair and walked forward.

The breeze had fallen with the sinking of
the sun. The schooner, with fanning canvas,
glided quietly along a sea that was like the
English Channel on a summer night for the
smoothness of it, and the air was full of a

dim, soft, golden haze of starlight. Agatha
drinking in the pleasant atmosphere, hung
with hands locked upon her lover's arm,
slowly walking the length of the quarterdeck
with him. There was little else to
disturb the stillness but the low humming of
their speech. At the tiller stood Goldsmith,
a dark and quiet shape. Stone leaned
against the bulwark, withdrawing himself
into shadow and obscurity, as it might have
seemed as though from eager anxiety not to
even suggest the obtrusion of his personality
upon the lovers. Forward in the darkness
upon the forecastle the glowing bowl of a
pipe or two might have been detected ; but
all was silent that way. The memory of the
babe was yet fresh, and now that the darkness
had come, the death of the nameless
infant and its burial were felt again in the
forecastle.

But a little before half-past eight, down
in the south-east quarter, you would have
observed a shadow blackening upon the sea,
and rising with it, here and there, a cloud,
pale against the stars. In a short time the
new wind was blowing between the masts of

the schooner, and the watch on deck filled
the scene between the bulwarks with busy
fittings and darting as they tumbled about,
hauling and pulling.

'* The first of the south-east trade, I do
believe," cried out old Stone to Hiram, as
the captain came probing his long body
through the companion-way. The old man
was right, as was Hiram, who had predicted
it ; for long before midnight the schooner,
under fore-topmast staysail and swelling
square sail, was rushing through the seas
before a noble wind blowing strong over
the quarter, with a heaven of stars leaping
among driving clouds, and the foam whitening
out spectrally in all directions like snowdrifts
upon a giant moor, steeped in the
shadow of night and vast in the darkness.

HOME.

It is autumn In England. Past the fringe
of trees which about define the Emits of
Wyloe in the west, the sun is setting with a
fiery wild light that has a tempestuous appearance,
because of the swirling and boiling
aspect of the scarlet, glowing haze which
trembles a blood-like ardency through the
boughs, and floats far into the east over the
delicate greenish azure of the sky. Where
the sea stretches westward the water is as
scarlet as the heaven. The shingle heaves
towards the surf along its margin in billows
which resemble surges arrested in their
career ; every stone and pebble have upon
them the rich purple of the expiring light,
and so deep is the country silence that even
in the heart of Wyloe you may plainly hear
the washing of the froth running with a

delicate seething sound through the air, the
peculiar note of which is distinct above the
murmur of the voices around, or even the
coarse jolting rattle of some cart on the highway
beyond. The eastward-facing walls of
the old church stand black in the long dark
shadow of the building, and cast an early
night upon the graves there, but the weathercock
on the tower has the glowing sunshine
still upon it, and streaks the sky like a beam
of deep red light. You could tell, without
inquiring, that there is a sense of expectation
in Wyloe this evening. It may be detected
in such minute signs as the head or two
which will pop out of open windows or shop
doors at intervals, always glancing up the
street towards the " Barley Mow" inn, where
the coach stops that comes from Dover. It
is also noticeable when old people chance to
meet ; a shambling couple, say, who as men
and women would be content at any other
time to call a greeting to each other in their
cracked and feeble pipes as they passed, for
the excellent reason that their minds hold
nothing to warrant a dead stop, that is,
nothing outside their half-score of threadbare

local topics, which to deal with according to
custom they would need an armchair, a pipe,
a cup of tea, or any such excuse. But this
evening they come to a halt. Garrulity is
strong in the noses which they thrust into
each other's face. They strike the pavement
with their sticks, and pretend to turn away
as if they indeed meant to part, but their
noses come together again, and so for half an
hour at a time.

At the Vicarage the dining-room windows
are open, for the air is soft and pleasant. A
lamp stands upon the table, lighted candles
upon the mantelpiece. A goat bleats tremulously
somewhere out in the dusk. There
are four people in this room. One is the
Reverend Alfred Clayton, Vicar of Wyloe ;
the other is his brother. Doctor Joseph
Clayton ; the third and fourth are Mrs.
Clayton and her daughter Josephine. The
ladies are seated, the gentlemen are pacing
the carpet, like sentries, only the doctor is
much more active than the parson, who fills
the apartment with a sound of wheezing ashe
goes. In the doctor, indeed, it is a
kind of flitting, but the movements of both

are full of nervousness and agitation, and
presently Mrs. Clayton finds this activity
rather irritating.

My dear," she says, addressing the \lcar,
*' I wish you would sit down. I dare say if
you were to feel my pulse you would find that
my heart beats faster than yours, which would
prove, of course, that my excitement is greater
than yours."

'* Not necessarily," interrupted the doctor.

"Yet," continued Mrs. Clayton, "I can
repress my feelings and behave, at all events,
as if I were composed."

I can't sit down," said Mr. Clayton.

Nor I," exclaimed the doctor.

Only consider," the Vicar continued,
coming to a stand opposite his wife, and
talking asthmatically, " for months and
months we have been in ignorance of our
dear Agatha's fate. For months and months
we have been convinced that Fortescue is
the victim of a distressing delusion, and
that he is voyaging on a quest merely to
perish by the way or return with a heartbroken
by disappointment. Instead of which,
only yesterday morning I get a letter from

him saying that he is alive, that he has
Agatha with him, that they are both well,
that they have arrived off Deal in the
Golden Hope, that they are lingering to
make some purchases at Deal, and expect
to be here this evening at seven o'clock."
He pulled out his watch. " How can I sit
downs" he added. '' Excitement ! why, here
is a miracle — a miracle."

'* I only mean," said Mrs. Clayton, 'that
it increases one's own nervousness when
other people are restless."

*' Hush !" cried the doctor, hollowing his
hands round his ear at the window, and
thrusting his head out.

After a little, asthma conquered, and the
Rev. Alfred Clayton sat down.

The doctor was naturally of a dark complexion,
with the Indian's dusky eye, but he
now showed himself burnt to the colour of
ground coffee. Indeed, had he acted as a
ship's figure-head in a voyage round the
world, his skin could hardly have been more
unsparingly tanned.

"Curse the moths!" he suddenly cried, asa
great fellow, big as a butterfly, sailed in

through the window, and went slapping
about the ceiling with a noise like the toying
of a sailor in a jig. "We shan't be able to
hear anything for that creature's wings."

The more one thinks of it," exclaimed
the Vicar, "the more absolutely incredible
and marvellous it seems. A man is in love
with a girl. She sails for India ; the ship is
burnt, and the people take to the boats. The
lover dreams of the loss of the ship, sees an
island in a vision with his sweetheart upon it,
finds out where the island is, sells a couple of
thousand pounds worth of securities, buys a
little ship, and steers for this spot of land
somewhere in the Indian Ocean. Why," he
exclaimed "it must be, since he has her
with him, that he found her on the island,
and that every circumstance of the voyage
corroborated his dream."

It is a great pity," says Josephine, " that
Mr. Fortescue should not have said so in his
letter. To be kept all this time wondering !
If he really found her on the island the whole
thing will be almost too awful."

"Why?" asked Mrs. Clayton.

Well, if it happened to me, I mean if I

were to dream as Mr. Fortescue did, and it
came true, it would make me feel as if I was
unnatural and belonged to the period of the
Old Testament, and had been selected."

'* He says Agatha is well," says Dr. Clayton,
"but how about that lung of hers, I wonder.
This and her general health had greatly improved
even before we got to the Cape ; of
that there is no doubt."

Dear me," said Mrs. Clayton, with a nervous
twitch in her chair. " I wish they would
come."

But they had to wait, and then Dr. Clayton,
bringing his head from the window and crying
out, '' I hear the coach ! " ran without his hat
out of the house, leaving the others moving
about the room in the last stage of restlessness,
anxiety and consuming expectation.

Another ten minutes ; the sound of eager
voices outside. Mrs. Clayton and Josephine
run into the hall, the Vicar goes puffing after
them ; the door is wide open ; the figure of
a girl bounds up the steps, and in a breath
the hall is full of people, kissing, crying, shaking
hands and the like. Nor does this complete
the picture, for there are some scores of

parishioners who had got to hear that their
curate was coming back with the shipwrecked
sweetheart he had gone in search of, and who,
on seeing Mr. Fortescue and Agatha aught
from the coach, followed them and the doctor
into the Vicarage grounds, where they stood
like a wall, waiting until the embracing was
over in the hall to cheer. The opportunity
arrived ; a perfect yell of welcome like a
hurricane swept out of those hearty seaside
lungs of leather ; the shout is again repeated,
and no one could have imagined for
how long a time these excellent people would
have stayed, if the Vicar had not stood upon
the step, thanked them in the name of his
curate and the lady for their cordial reception,
told them that Mr. Fortescue was too
much affected to address even a sentence to
them, and so dismissed them.

Half an hour later there was something like
composure among the inmates of the Vicarage,
but until then there had been little more than
explanations, touching illustrations of Agatha's
delight in finding her step-father alive and
well, questions from the Vicar diverted from
their purpose by Mrs. Clayton, who declared

that she would not have Agatha and Mr.
Fortescue worried until they had supped and
were rested, and fully capable of stating their
adventures. But human nature could not
stand out. There was a limit, and it was
arrived at shortly after they had seated themselves
at the cheerful, abundant supper-table.

"Only one question, Fortescue," rapped
out the Vicar, " nothing further, I give you
my word, until after supper — but — but — did
you find Agatha on the island ?"

*eyes," responded Fortescue.

The Reverend Mr. Clayton rolled up his
eyes to the ceiling. Josephine clasped her
hands and looked thrilled. The doctor
uttered, "Amazing! Amazing!" and Mrs.
Clayton said, addressing her husband, '* Do
please go on carving, my dear."

However, before the supper was over the
doctor had told his story, at all events. He
had made one of forty people in the longboat
of the Merula. It was not until the
dawn broke that he found he was separated
from his step-daughter; for though the flames
burnt fiercely in the fore part of the Merula,
it was impossible for him even by their light

to distinguish the faces of the crowd which
brought the boat low in the water. Their
sufferings, however, did not last long, for on
the evening of the second day they were
sighted by a French brig bound to Mauritius,
that bore down and took them on board,
where, indeed, owing to the numerous crew
of Frenchmen and the smallness of the
vessel's accommodation, they were not very
much better oft" than they had been in the
long-boat. Five days after, an Indiaman
belonging to the firm that owned the \'eru-
tam over hauled the brig, and the captain on
hearing who were the people the Frenchman
had picked up, immediately consented to
receive the whole of them. In this manner
the doctor made his way to England, but
very much against his wishes, fortis destination
had been Bombay, and he naturally
concluded that if the people in the boat in
which Agatha was, were rescued, there was
much more likelihood of their being conveyed
to some adjacent port, whence Agatha would
be able to make her way to Bombay, than
carried to England. But it could not be
helped. The little doctor was brought to

London, and from there proceeded to Wyloe,
at which place, on hearing from his brother of
Fortescue's extraordinary dream, and the
singular quest he had embarked on, he
determined to remain until news of Agatha
or Fortescue should reach him.

Such was the doctor's story ; but he related
every particular, was excessively minute, and
made much of the loss of his luggage and
some valuable books in the Merula, and of
his sufferings in the boat, and on the French
brig, so that, frequently interrupted as he
was by questions, the termination of his
narrative found the supper-cloth removed,
and the Clayton, who had heard the doctor's
story over and over again, all throbbing with
anxiety for Fortescue to begin.

And yet, though in the curate's own mind
what he had undergone might have appeared
to him to warrant the furnishing out of a
sitting that should last for days, when it
came to his talking he found that there was
but little to say. He gave them the story,
plainly related one or two incidents of the
passage to the island, his misgivings touching
Stone's accuracy, Hiram's doubts, the fears

'212>

which would haunt him that after all the
vision that had impelled him might prove as
delusive as dreams usually are ; his anxiety
as the hour for the island to heave in view
approached, the profound conviction which
seized him that the finger of Almighty God
had pointed the way, when the land stood
fair before him in the calm waters, a conformation
startling by familiarity, since he
knew it as a man might know any place he
had visited. He told them about his landing,
how he had found Agatha ; but now a conspicuous
reserve marked his narrative. He
simply let them suppose that on finding
Agatha he led her to the boat. Nothing
was said about her loss of memory.

Meanwhile, she sat listening to him, with
eyes that seemed to adore him, rooted to his
face. He was silent on the subject of the baby.

"The Golden Hope," he said, "is a wonderful
sailer, and our run from the Line to the
English Channel showed an average of two
hundred miles a day. We anchored off Deal,
and I induced Agatha to remain on board
whilst I went ashore in search of someone
qualified to make her fit to travel in a stage-vol.

III. T

coach." He laughed, running his eyes over
her dress and taking up her hand and kissing
it.

'' How on earth, Agatha dear," exclaimed
Miss Clayton, *' did you manage on that
island ?"

My bedroom was a cave," she answered.

** I understood you to say that the men built
her a summer-house, Fortescue," broke in the
doctor.

'agatha slept In a cave," said Fortescue,
giving the doctor a peculiar look.

How long were you on the island ? " asked
the Vicar.

Agatha thought, glanced wistfully at her
lover, and then looked on the floor with a
slightly troubled expression, which the doctor's
keen eye noticed.

No matter, my dearest," said he. " I am
grateful to God to find you looking so well.
Your eyes are amazingly bright and clear j
your complexion Is also as It should be." He
put his thumb upon her wrist. "All's well
that ends well, my love," said he, soothingly.
*' I will sound your lung tomorrow, but I
expect to find it perfectly healthy."

"Were the sailors kind on the island?"
said Mrs. Clayton.

This started the girl, for memory could help
her here. She told them about her sufferings
in the boat, about Archer's noble humanity
and goodness to her, how the boat went to
pieces in the surf, and how Archer rescued
her. She also told them about her island life,
the food they had managed to get, the warm
fresh-water springs they had found, and so
forth, but they all noticed the abrupt pause in
her relation when, whilst it was obvious to
them that only half of the time she had been
upon the island was accounted for by the incidents
she narrated, she stopped as if the
story ended there. The impression was that
there was a something behind, which both she
and Fortescue desired to conceal, because his
reserve in its way had not been less suggestive
than her making out that her life on the
Island had come to an end, when, in reality,
she must have passed many more weeks
upon it ere the arrival of the schooner.

The doctor looked worried ; yet for an
hour longer they went on talking, one question
leading to another till you would have

supposed there was nothing more to tell.
Then Agatha owned she was wearied, and
would be glad to go to bed, on which the
bell rung, servants arrived, and after the
usual prayers were read, the Vicar knelt
and offered up thanksgiving to God for the
preservation of the life of Agatha, for His
guidance of Fortescue, for their happy
return. Much more he said, deeply affected
himself, and using such tender, moving language,
that there was a frequent sound of
sobbing heard whilst he prayed.

The ladies then withdrew, and the little
doctor looked about him for his pipe.

"Where are you going?" said the Vicar to-fortescue.


"To seek a bed," said he, laughing. "I
will run round to my old lodging whilst the
people are still awake."

"No, no ; a room is ready for you here.
Sit down, my dear friend. How bronzed
you are ! Almost as black as my brother
The sea is a brave life. I sometimes wish
I'd been a sailor."

"Yes, a brave life to look at through a
window," said Fortescue, smiling.

/ /

** Sit down, Fortescue," said the doctor ;
"there is a pouch of excellent tobacco. I
want you to tell me about Agatha. Something
ails her mentally. Is it her memory?"
He fixed his black eyes, full of anxious
scrutiny, upon the curate.

*' It is," answered Fortescue, "but, thank
'God, it is not as it was when I found her.
Ah I" he exclaimed, covering his face with
his hands, and speaking in that posture,
"what I have endured, what I have suffered
on the grounds of her memory only, can
never be known, save to my slater !"

He lingered so long with his face hidden
that they supposed him to be in prayer, and
neither of them spoke. After a little he
looked up, and then in a broken way at first*
but gaining ground as he proceeded, he told
them how, when he had first come across
Agatha on the island, he had seen her lying
wildly beautiful in her tattered raiment upon
the ground of the little house of boughs,
striving to collect in the palm of her hand a
pool of sunshine beside her ; she had looked
at him in a half-witted manner, as he deemed,
and with absolutely unrecognising eyes, and

then he found her memory was gone, that she
knew him not, had not the faintest knowledge
of her past. This was confirmed by the brave
fellow Archer, who afterwards narrated in the
cabin of the schooner in what dreadful manner
it had come about that recollection was
destroyed in her. The whole story he told
them ; of the baby who had been put aboard
by the French man-of-war; of the girl's extraordinary
devotion and love for the little one ;
of its falling from her arms into the sea ;
her anguish ; the babe's burial ; the miraculous
restoration of Agatha's memory at that
moment ; the equally marvellous benumbing,
or utter extinction, of her capacity of recalling
a single circumstance from the time previous
to her struggle with the seaman down to her
awakening from the swoon that followed her
recognition of her lover.

They listened with amazement, more particularly
the Vicar, who looked as if he was
now certain that the age of miracles had
returned. Dr. Clayton, puffing at his pipe,
said, 'ris her memory, as regards the
interval you speak of, still dead ?"

'' Yes. Once, very cautiously, about a fortnight

ago, I touched upon the subject of the
baby, wondering whether such a reference to
emotions so vital as those the poor little infant
had excited in her, would stir her recollection.
It did not ; she gazed at me blankly."

'* To think," cried the Vicar, clasping his
hands, "that out of the death of a little child,
the memory, the happiness of one who
loved it should come back to her ! What
wondrous justification of the truth and
beauty of that saying of our Lord, ' Whosoever
shall receive one of these children in My
name, received Me, and whosoever shall
receive Me, received not Me, but Him that
sent Me.' You took that infant in God's
name, and the Spirit of God came to you
with it and blessed you both."

'eyes. I felt that over and over again,"
said Fortescue.

'' But her memory, as regards her past,
down to the moment when you say recollection
ceases, is perfect ?" inquired the
doctor.

** As perfect as ever it was," answered the
curate.

'' All things," continued the doctor, " which

have happened since her recognition of you
she can recollect ?"

*' Yes — all things. You may liken her
memory to a chain. A dark shadow lies
upon a few links. The rest is in sunshine."

"It may be the design of Heaven," said
the Vicar, "that she should not recollect the
dreadful thing that befel her upon the island."

"Ay," exclaimed Fortescue, "and I believe
it was Heaven's will that her 'memory
should leave her, that health of body might
return. The past was struck out. Her mind
could catch hold of nothing to fret over.
When I found her she resembled some ocean
goddess, a soft tropical glow in her cheeks,
an exquisite dancing freedom in her movement,
as careless as the breeze and as radiant.
There was a far richer health in her beauty
than is now visible, for she fretted inwardly
when she came to know from me that she
had a memory to which she was blind, and
that I who stood before her was her lover,
betrothed to her, but unknown to her."

Dr. Clayton rose and paced the room. He
delivered a long medical opinion upon the
singular mental problem that Agatha had,

and in a great degree still, submitted. He
said that the recovery of her health through
the loss of her memory was in its way as
wonderful as any other feature of the voyage
and rescue ; yet so conceivable that no
student of psychology could question the
accuracy of the theory that attributed recovery
to a loss of all recollection of whatever
could keep her fretting and despairs.

He declared himself on the whole as not
uneasy on the score of the second lapse of
memory, and said that in all probability it
was for the best that she should not be able
to recall the assault that had shocked memory
out of her — at least until her mind had regained
the old vigour. He added he did not
doubt that in time recollection would fill the
hiatus; and having thus delivered himself, he
spoke of other marvels of this strange passage
in two human lives, more particularly Fortescue's
vision, and then the conversation went
over the whole ground of the voyage again.

As darkness deepens into midnight over
Wyloe, and the extinguished lights in the
Vicarage leave the house a black shadow

among the trees which surround it, the
writer pauses, finding his story told. For
the curate's quest is over ; he has brought
his beloved back in safety and in health ;
and it was but to relate the voyage that this
narrative was entered upon. There are, indeed,
other scenes beyond. The return of
the curate to his old life and habits, glimpses
of Agatha, sweet and gentle, winning love
on all hands, narrating again and again the
story of her shipwreck and of her life upon
the island so far as memory carried her ;
Doctor Clayton's discovery, confirmed by the
London physician who had advised the voyage,
that her lung was perfectly sound ; her
marriage to Fortescue in the December
following their arrival, and the return of the
doctor to India a month later.

Out of all these things another volume
could be made, but the story is long enough.
Yet the Golden Hope! That brave schooner
which carried the clergyman to the island of
his dream ! What of her ? And of William
Stone and Hiram Weeks, and old William
Breeches and the rest of that little company
of souls ?

Well, first of the Golden Hope, and then a
sentence or two for the men, ere they are dismissed
into that shadowy land out of which
the pen of the novelist summoned them. On
the arrival of the schooner at the East India
Docks, Fortescue wrote to his relative, Mr.
Salt, to ask him to negotiate the sale of her.
He had no further need of her, he said ; she
had enabled him to accomplish his mission ;
when he thought of her it was as of a living
being, lovely, loyal, and affectionate, and were
he a richer man he would not part with her
for four times the sum she cost him. But he
was now about to incur many expenses, and
it was out of the question that he could preserve
the vessel merely as a relic. On the
top of this letter Mr. Salt came down to
Wyloe, was very handsomely received by
the Vicar, introduced to Agatha, with whom
he fell in love, and now hearing from Fortescue
the motives and causes which led to his
undertaking the voyage, for as we know the
clergyman had concealed from his relative
all about his dream and its startling corroboration,
he was so much impressed with the
story that he declared the schooner ought to

be kept in the family ; and, declining to listen
to Fortescue's entreaties that he would take
time to consider the matter, he wrote him a
cheque that included not only the price the
Golden Hope had cost the curate, but all the
expenses of her provisioning, wages and the
like, along with the one hundred guineas that
was to be Stone's reward for determining the
position of the island. For four years the
old gentleman used the Golden Hope as a
yacht, and talked so much of the marvellous
errand his relative had put her upon, that
people looked at her as if she was a curiosity,
the remains of something sacred and full of
mystery. Mr. Salt, then finding himself
growing too old for yachting, sold her for a
few hundred pounds to a man who started
her afresh in her old business of carrying
cargoes of fruit. Six months after this, news
reached Fortescue that the Golden Hope had
been in collision in the Bay of Biscay and
foundered with the loss of two of her crew.

William Stone not only received the
hundred guineas, but a very handsome gift
of money besides, subscribed to by Dr.
Clayton ; Wrotham, Skinner and Co. — who

were greatly pleased with the conduct of
their old servant — Mr. Salt and Fortescue.
Archer also met with the liberal treatment
the poor fellow nobly deserved. Xor was
Hiram forgotten. He was made happy by a
gift of fifty pounds and a very fine telescope ;
the inscription on which was complimentary
enough to keep the old fellow smiling every
he had occasion to use the glass. Everyone
of the crew, from old Bill Breeches
down to Johnny, the boy, received, according
to his rating, a substantial gift of money
over and above his wages, so that even
the surly and superstitious cook had to
admit that, now the astonishing vovaQ^e was
over, he had ever' reason to be satisfied
that he had signed articles for the Golden
Hope.

But Jack is a fugitive creature. Of the
three principal seamen concerned in this tale
the first to entirely disappear was Archer.
He staved ashore for some time, Divino: out
that he had had enough of the sea, and meant
to "knock off" and start in a little business,
now that he had a trite of money to call his
own. He went down to Wvloe two or three

times, where he was received as a greatly-prized
friend, and talked to Fortescue about
the sort of business he might consider himself
best qualified for, and was evidently in
earnest. Some time went by, and Fortescue
not hearing of him, wrote to learn how he was
getting on, when to the great grief of Agatha
and himself, there came back a letter from
-Mrs. Archer saying that her husband, having
grown uneasy at the idea of remaining ashore,
had determined to make one more voyage.
He had found a berth as boatswain on board
a vessel bound to the West Indies. She had
shifted her cargo in the English Channel during
heavy weather, and Archer entering the
hold to lend the men a hand to trim the stuff
that was tumbling about, had been so cruelly
crushed that he died shortly after he had been
sent ashore.

The next to fade out was Hiram. Fortescue
was never able to learn what his end
was, or what had become of him, supposing
he still lived.

Old William Stone lingered long — long
enough to dance three of Agatha's babies
upon his knee, to cut out and rig little boats

for the eldest of them when he was In his
fifth year, to spin long yarns at Fortescue's
table, to divert and even to charm the friends
of the clergyman and his wife with his arguments,
religious notions, his politics and his
singular language. It will thus be guessed
that he was a frequent visitor at Wyloe. But
one day Fortescue received a letter from the
owners of the Merula saying that poor old
William Stone had a week previously made
his last stretch off shore and gone to rest in a
graveyard in the neighbourhood of his well-beloved
dock haunts.

Six months after the return of Fortescue
and Agatha, there was placed in a conspicuous
part of the church at Wyloe, a
memorial tablet, on which was inscribed : —

SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF

MALCOLM HOPE,

An infant.

Who died at sea, on board the schooner

Golden Hope,"

On the 14th August, 18 — .

*' He took a child and set him in the 7nidst
of them''

THE GOLDEN HOPE.

One summer day Malcolm Fortescue and
his wife Agatha entered the church hand in
hand. They stood for a few minutes before
this tablet, Agatha with her eyes fixed upon
it, Fortescue watching her.

*'Oh, Malcolm," she exclaimed, in alow,
thrilling voice, with a look on her face of
exquisite tenderness, " I remember! Yes, it
has all come back to me — poor little nameless
one !"

Her eyes filled with tears, and thus weeping
she knelt, her husband by her side, still hand
in hand.

THE END.

TILLOTSON AND SON, PRINTERS, BOLTON.

/
