OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS


R9»»T>ar

vel

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/marooned01russ

MAROONED

VOL. I

BY

W. CLARK RUSSELL

AUTHOR OF "the GOLDEN HOPE," " THE WRECK OF THE * Grosvenor,
THE LADY MAUD," " A SEA QUEEN," " JACK'S COURTSHIP,"
THE FROZEN PIRATE," ETC. ETC

Maroon— To put a person ashore on an uninhabited island

Nautical Dictionary

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I

MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


Trie Right of Translation and Reproduction is Reserved

LONDON AND BUNGAY.

4/>-

V. 1

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

I RECEIVE A LETTER I

CHAPTER II.
MISS Aurelian GRANT .' II

CHAPTER III.
THE IRON CROWN 22

^ CHAPTER IV.

WE EMBARK 35

CHAPTER V.

THE VOYAGE BEGINS 5 1

CHAPTER VI.

PAGE

AN INCIDENT IN THE CHANNEL 72

CHAPTER VII.

BOTHWELL, CHIEF MATE I04

CHAPTER VIII.

THE HALF-BLOOD's PUNISHMENT 1 23

CHAPTER IX.

THE HALF-BLOOD IS RELEASED 1 38

CHAPTER X.

A MIDNIGHT ALARM 163

CHAPTER XL

A TRAGEDY I79

CHAPTER XII.

MUTINY 207

CHAPTER XIII.

PAGE

BROADWATER PROVES OBSTINATE 228

CHAPTER XIV.

THE SAILOR'S LAST TOSS 245

CHAPTER XV.

WE SAIL THROUGH A STRANGE LIGHT .> 267

CHAPTER XVI.

BROADWATER's PROPOSAL 289

CHAPTER 1.

I RECEIVE A LETTER.

I RETURNED to my lodgings In London one
night in June in the year eighteen hundred and
something, and found a letter lying upon the
table. It was from my cousin, Alexander
Fraser, and was dated at Rio Janeiro. This
was a man whom I had neither seen nor heard
of for some years. We had been sent to sea
as boys in the East India Company's service,
and together had made three voyages in the
same ship to Bombay ; which In those ambling
days of trade, when a four months' passage to
the Bay of Bengal was considered a good run,
meant a honos and intimate association. Through

VOL. L B

the death of my dear mother I came into money
enough to render me independent, and so I
quitted old ocean after three years of seafaring.
Fraser made a fourth voyage and I then lost
sight of him. When later on I wrote to his
sisters in the north of Scotland, I was told he
had left his ship at Bombay to accompany a
tea-grower, who had been a passenger in the
vessel, to his plantations. That was the last
I heard of him. As I held his letter in my
hand, memory recalled him as a fair, blue-eyed,
bronzed young fellow, exceedingly good-looking,
a very nimble and alert seaman, fitter for the
navy indeed than for the tea-waggon service, full
of spirit and resolution and extremely impulsive.
He wrote to the following effect : first of all,
he said, he had heard of me and obtained my
address from a friend of mine who had sailed a
few months before for Lima, but whose ship had
been obliged to put into Rio to repair some
damage she had sustained in a heavy gale oft
Cape Agostino. He had a long story to relate
about his misfortunes in India, how he had been
villainously deceived in the character of his
associate and almost ruined by him, and how,

as he had no wish to die of starvation,
he had shipped as a foremast hand aboard a
Yankee vessel, from which he ran on her arrival
at Pernambuco — where he fell in with a sugar-grower
belonging to Rio, who offered him a
good berth on his estate in the neighbourhood
of that town. He had not been long settled
when he made the acquaintance of a Mr. and
Mrs. Grant, with whose only daughter, Aurelian,
he immediately fell in love. Mr. Grant was a
Scotchman who had married a Spanish lady of
noble birth, and their daughter, Fraser went onto
say, was the most majestic, stately, and
beautiful woman that ever walked the earth.
The parents consented to their betrothal, but
objected to the marriage until Fraser was in a
condition to support a wife in comfort. One
night, very suddenly, Mrs. Grant died. Her
husband, who adored her, found her dead at
his side, and the shock was so great that both his
health and his mind gave way. He declared
that he could not support life in a town where
every object which met his eye reminded him of
his loss ; and within a month of Mrs. Grant's
death he broke up his home and sailed with

B 2

Aurelia for England. Fraser added that folks
at Rio spoke of Mr. Grant as a well-to-do man,
and talked of Aurelia as an heiress ; but the truth
came out when he was gone, and it was then
understood that so far from being rich he had
just contrived to come to a stand within a few
fathoms of the brink of insolvency.

The lovers of course agreed to write by every
ship. Fraser was cocksure of being able to support
a wife before another year had run out,
and it was settled that he was to send for or
fetch her at the expiration of the twelvemonth,
as there was not the least likelihood of Mr.
Grant returning to Rio.

Eight months after the arrival of the girl in
England the father died. She wrote to acquaint
Fraser with her loss, and hinted quite enough
to intimate that she was not only friendless in
London, but in poverty. " And now," continued
my cousin, '' I want you, who were as a brother
to me when we were together at sea, to stand
me in a brother's stead aofain in about as trvinof
and perplexing a passage as ever formed part
of a man's life. The business I have charge of
is so tender, it needs such cherishing, such persistent

personal attention, that I am persuaded
were I to let go of it to fetch Aurelia I should
return to find myself bankrupt. The population
of Rio comprises a great number of rogues, and
though the people I employ are not worse than
the rest, they are rascals nevertheless, and I
make no doubt whatever that if I were to turn
my back upon them for three months they would
ruin me. Now, my dear Dick, this is what you
will do for me : you will call upon Aurelia "
here came in the address — " advance whatever
money she may require, engage a cabin
for her in the next ship that sails for Rio, furnish
her with all such delicacies and comforts as your
seafaring experiences, backed by a fastidious
appetite, will suggest, and then, all this being
d.ox\^, accompany her yourself. You start ! But,
my dear boy, you will do this ! ay, indeed you
will ; for d'ye see, you imtst, Dick. You will
need but glance at her to perceive instantaneously
that she cannot be suffered to embark alone.
And consider how happy it will make her, thrown
as she must needs be into the company, not of
our polished glittering species — the sparkling
dandies of John Company — but of men with

faces like walnut-shells, with voices hoarse and
raw with hard drinking, whose language is thickened
and stiffened with horrid objectionable
words — how happy, I say, it will make her to
feel that she has the protection of her sweetheart's
own cousin, a man of muscle and nerve,
who can tell the toughest salt of them all where
the flying-jibboom ends and how many gudgeons
a liner's rudder hangs on ! Consider the ease of
mind that I shall enjoy through knowing that
you are at her side. Consider again the prodigious
delight it will give me to meet you — to
thank you — to entertain you — to yarn with you
over the past and hearken to the home news
you will bring with you. No excuse, as you
love me ! You initst come, d'ye see, Dick.
Yes, you must absolutely accompany my poor
lonely darling girl. You are an idle man, you
know ; your friend told me you were unmarried
when he last saw you, and I have a right to
believe, as I certainly hope, that you are single
at this minute of reading my letter. The
voyage is a pleasant one. Once clear of the
Bay, 'tis no more than the pleasant fanning of
the north-east trade-wind, with a brief instructive

halt on the equator for a glance at John Share
and the pretty little flying fishes, and then a
delightful run to the noblest bit of scenery the
wide world over. Reflect a little upon your
health and you are sure to discover that a change
of air will do you good. And name me an air
sweeter than the ocean breeze ! Besides, you
were never in South America, and cannot therefore
imagine the delights in store for you in the
shape of the rivers, the mountains, the shining
flowers and exquisite fruits of this grand continent,
or at all events of that part of it to which I
invite you."

And so the letter went on, terminating in a
whole jumble of exhortations to me to come
to squire his sweetheart — to behold from the
summit of the regal Corcovado the magnificent
harbour, the sparkling city, the green country
beyond aflame with coloured growths. . . .

It was a letter to set me pacing the room.
The voyage was a considerable one ; and though
I had gone to sea for love of ships when I was
a boy, a very few months sufficed to break the
spell, and I had long ceased, as I believed, to
be sensible of any sort of oceanic influence. I

sat down, filled a pipe, and entered into certain
calculations. I reckoned that a tolerably true
course to Rio from the Thames would come
hard upon five thousand nautical miles, and as
it was hopeless to expect that any British South
American trader would average more than one
hundred and fifty knots in the twenty-four hours,
I judged that though all conditions should prove
favourable, the outward passage alone would
run me into five or six weeks. Then of course
I should have to return, so that I must look
upon the round voyage as promising me three
solid months, at least, upon a bosom that had
ceased to rock me for some years. The first
movement of my mind was one of recoil ; but
after turning the project over I got to think
that, after all, the voyage would prove a complete
and healthy change, inexpensive too, and much
less troublesome than a trip across the Channel.
Possibly the old instincts which had driven me
to sea as a lad, and which I had thought dead
long ago, lived still, and were now faintly stirring
to sudden visions of frothing billows, of the
small green moon shearing like a cannon-ball
through the flying scud, of the star-touched

well rolling in dark folds silently, of the tropic
shore that sweetens the warm breath of the
languid breeze with the odours of spices and the
perfume of a nameless vegetation. London was
hot and dull ; the seaside tedious and commonplace.
My excursions abroad formed no genial

memories, for in I nearly died of fever at

Brussels, and In lay 111 of a poisonous smell

for close upon a month at Florence. Besides,
my cousin pleaded to me as a brother and a
sailor, and I knew him well enough to feel
certain that If he were In my place he would
do me this service.

But what sort of a earl was this Miss Aurelian
Grant ? My cousin expressed her perfections
in the Impassioned language of love, and he
might possibly be very right in all he said ; but
I remember a man who had passed some years
in Spain, and who knew the Spanish character
well, telling me that he took particular notice
there was a deal of the mule mixed up in the
disposition of the women of that country — a
quality, as he described It, of bland and even
polite obstinacy, that was however very easily
excited into a most unpleasant, clamorous.

peevish Stubbornness. Miss Aurelian indeed
half English ; but suppose the other half of her
was not to my taste ? I do protest on my word
that I would rather go to jail for a fortnight
than be locked up in a ship for a month with a
disagreeable woman. Thus I sat debating ; but
though I was some distance on the road towards
forming a resolution, I cannot say that I had at
all made up my mind when I went to bed.

MISS Aurelian GRANT.

Next morning I dressed myself with more
care than I usually took In this way, though
twenty-six years old and not without self-complacency
in some respects, and about eleven
o'clock drove to the address Driven me bv
Fraser.

I found the house in a dull and dingy street
out of the Edward Road. Miss Grant was at
home. I sent up my name, and was shown into
a little front parlour, gloomy with sallow drapery
and the bilious atmosphere peculiar to this part
of the metropolis. In a few minutes she
entered, and I must confess I sprang rather
than rose to miy feet, so surprised was I by the
girl's beauty and deportment. I had indeed
conjectured a tall figure in conformity with my

cousin's description ; but imagination had not
gone beyond that, with a pair of dark eyes and
an upper Hp shaded with down.

Now Miss Aurea Grant had as fair and
delicate a complexion as any that ever I
witnessed in the most matchless Englishwoman's
face. Her hair was brown, very
plentiful, thick and soft, and it had a kind of
light of its own upon it as though dusted with
gold. Her eyes were black — profoundly so :
Spanish eyes in passion and power and meaning,
but subdued to an expression of beauty by,
as I took it, the English heart in her, that
rendered them remarkable beyond my capacity
of expression. Her figure was extremely fine,
full yet girlish too. She was dressed in mourning,
and as she stood looking at me a moment
or two in the doorway, I said to myself,
This is the handsomest creature I have ever
seen !

There was a little blush on her cheeks that
brightened the light in her eves : she smiled and
gave me her hand.

I am indeed glad to see you, Mr. Margrave.
Alexander has talked of you to me again and

again. In a letter I received from him yesterday
he told me you would call. You are very
Q-Qod to come so soon."

'* I shall be truly rejoiced if I can be of
service to you," said I, still a trifle confused ;
my cousin's description of you — eloquent as
his devotion would naturally make him " — here
I fumbled for the letter, — " would — perhaps,
madam " (we madame the ladies in those days
of high coat-collars, splendid waistcoats and
immense breast-pins), 'you would like to
read it."

She took it eagerly, and her eyes grew so
fond as she read, whilst a look so yearning
entered her face — such an expression as the
memory of her loneliness might put into her
when she should meet her sweetheart ao-ain
after their long separation — that I felt I acted
selfishly in watching her. She smiled happily
when she came to the part in which Fraser
spoke of her beauty, and when she had made
an end she folded the letter carefully as though
it were something precious, and pressed it
between her hands as if it was her sweetheart's
own fingers she held. ^

It seemed to me as I surveyed her that my
cousin exhibited uncommon courage In confiding
so much beauty as this to the care and
attention of a man whom he knew to be young
and single, to say no more, for a spell of shipboard
that might last for two or even three
months. Our eyes met : her colour deepened
somewhat, but her brilliant gaze was as steady
as the shining of a star. There was a singularly
engaging, most unaffected quality or
tone of frankness in her voice.

'' Alexander has asked you to do him a great
favour. It is really soo great." I seemed to
dissent. " It is positively enough, Mr. Margrave,
that you should hire a cabin for me. To make
the voyage also ! And yet I know he would be
overjoyed to see you. Still it is a tedious
journey, and if you are like Alexander you
detest the sea."

No," said I, *' I believe I shall enjoy a few
weeks on the ocean. The fact is, madam, I
want time to realize the thing, so to speak — not
to understand it, for of course it is intelligible
enough, but to accustom my thoughts to it, you
know ; " and here I coughed and brought myself

up '' all standing " as sailors say, for indeed
there was something In her shining steadfast
gaze that caused me to talk as though I was ill
at ease.

** Should you decide to be my companion,
Mr. Musgrave," said she, " the voyage will be
something to look forward to, greatly as I dislike
the sea, or rather existence on board ship."
I bowed. '' But you will not dream of doing
more than securing a cabin for me and helping
me in one or two other ways, — if you have the
least reluctance. It is quite possible that I may
find a pleasant companion among the passengers
if there should be ladies on board. As a rule
the captains and mates of the ships that trade
to South America are a very rough and rude
set of men. Should I be the only passenger,
it is natural," she said, with a lite droop of the
head, " that I should not choose to be alone in
such society."

This was like an appeal in its way, and her
manner of speaking rendered it irresistible.
Besides, there was Eraser's letter calling upon
me to protect her, imploring me as one who
was as a brother to do him this great service,

and these considerations coming on top of
my concern for her loneliness and helplessness,
my sympathy with her in the grief that was
still recent, and above all the perception that
she desired my company, and that I should be
acting unchivalrously to refuse her, made me
whip out, " Miss Grant, it is settled. We sail
together. There is nothing to keep me ashore.
It will be delightful to meet Fraser again, and
I shall find immense satisfaction in feeling that
my enjoyment of your society also includes the
pleasure of obliging you."

She clapped her hands with a gesture that
was like telling you she had something besides
English blood in her.

How good you are ! How glad you make
me, Mr. Musgrave ! I wonder what kind of
ship we shall sail in ? " she cried, with the
vivacity of a mind that has suddenly lost its
burden. " She must prove swift ! She cannot
sail too fast for me ! " and here she told me of
the vessel in which she and her father had
made the voyage home — a clumsy, round-bowed
malacca, apparently, that stirred to
nothing less than half a gale of wind, and so

leaky that the crew were at the pumps for
fourteen hours out of the twenty-four ; with a
bow-legged, beef-faced old swab for captain,
whose favourite boast was that he had once
swallowed at a draught a bowl of punch containing
ten half-pints of rum, whiskey, brandy
and water. She described this man and his
habits with so much humour as to give me a
high opinion of her talent as an observer ;
and she made me laugh heartily by an account
of a quarrel between him and his mate over a
pudding — the latter (an Irishman) beginning it
by swearing that he had seen dried currants
and raisins growing naturally like capers on
trees, and the captain ending it by grasping a
lump of the hot and steaming stuff and flinging
it plump into the mate's face. Maybe something
of the merriment of the tale and her
delivery of it lay to my mind in the contrast
between the rough sea-anecdote and the dignity,
refinement, and beauty of the speaker. But I
confess I liked her the better for her archness,
and for her easy recital of a story which Miss
Prim would consider rather vulgar since it
referred to such very common people.
VOL. I. c

Our conversation presently went to her
father. He died in the house in which she was
still lodging, and she declared that when, after
the funeral, she sat down to reflect she did not
know what in the world she should do. She
had not a friend in England, and of her mother's
relatives in Spain she knew nothing. The few |
pounds her father had left were fast giving out, \
and she frankly told me that the money she still
had would not have carried her on another
month. 'why did you not call upon me ?" I
asked her. But it seems that Eraser had
omitted to give my address in the last letter but
one he sent to her, and it was only a week or
two before he wrote that he had learnt it from my
friend whose ship had been forced into Rio.

I was with her for two hours, and never did
time pass more pleasantly and quickly. We arranged
that I should call for her next day and
accompany her to the shops she had occasion
to visit, and afterwards make inquiries about
the next ship and start on all the necessary preparations
for the voyage. She cried when she
said good-bye to me. Indeed she had suffered
grievously, and now that the darkness was

passing she could not meet the first of the dawn
without tears.

As to myself, I hardly knew whether my resolution
made me glad or sorry when I came to
turn it over. The girl was exceeding handsome,
but then she was not my sweetheart.
Had her heart been her own a voyage with her
must have yielded me a prospect that could not
have left me doubting whether I was right in
this adventure. But as my cousin's betrothed
she was the same to me as if she was his wife.
There was no room for sentiment. I was
young enough to take this into consideration,
and I say, when I reflected upon my determination,
I could not satisfy myself that my
judgment was as brilliant as my heroism.

On the following morning I called at her
lodgings and afterwards passed some hours in
watching her whilst she shopped and in paying
for her purchases. There was a dignified frankness
about her that was very fascinating, and
not the less so because it was tinctured with
melancholy. Her fine eyes expressed so much
spirit, there was so much power in the curve
and set of her lips, such suggestion of self

2

MAROONED. chap.

reliance in the peculiar floating pose of her head,
I felt persuaded that a very great deal of the
heroine went to her composition, that she was
a woman whose qualities would best discover
themselves in a time of extremity, a person by
nature so ardent that no theory about her could
touch the limits of the romantic exploits she was
equal to in the service of the man she loved.
These were my thoughts as I sat watching her
whilst she handled the stuffs the shorten put
before her, frequently turning to me to speak,
when I would notice that every sudden confronting
of her full beauty surprised me asa
fresh revelation.

She managed to buy all she needed in one
day, which I thought very clever and very kind
also. " How long," said I, " will it take you to
prepare for the voyage ? "

Oh," she answered, " if you were to tell me
the ship sails tomorrow I should be quite
ready."

I told her that 1 would devote the next day
to making inquiries and arrangements, and
would do myself the pleasure to call in the
evening and let her know what I had done.

At all events," said I, "you would wish me to
book ourselves for the next ship ? '"'

'' If you please," she answered with anxiety.

In which case," I observed, " we must not
be fastidious. The best procurable cabins will
satisfy us, and the skipper's appearance need
not count. Yet it will not do to sail away in a
vessel whose seams yawn and whose hold has
been abandoned by the rats. I have some small
knowledge of ships, and if the first that offers
is not as she should be we must wait for
the next."

I will leave everything to you," she said,
*only," looking around with a slight shudder —
we were conversing in her lodgings — " I am so
very weary of this gloomy house, this dull
street ; so lono^inis: to see mv dear one aQ^ain,
and the bright sun and the flowers of my own
home."

I will do my best," I exclaimed ; '' there
should be and perhaps will be a choice of ships.
If we have to wait, you will suffer me to find
you pleasant quarters."

And with that I bade her good-bye and left
her.

THE IRON CROWN.

In those days a large number of vessels
bound to all parts of the world loaded in the
Pool, a little wav below London Brldo^e.
Steam then was young, and not much was made
of it. I have lived to see steamers trading to
South America big enough to stow away in
their holds many of the sailing vessels which
were then carrying goods and passengers to all
parts of the world. It is difficult in this age to
realize the kind of experiences our forefathers
suffered when they took ship — it mattered little
to what countries — if it were not the ports to
which the Indiamen were despatched. I have
heard my mother say that in her young days
country people who proposed a trip to London
would make their wills before entering the

coach. I do not know that the coach was
much more dangerous than the locomotive, but
I am certain that there were no Emits to the
perils which menace the ocean-borne traveller
in the time of the little passenger-ship and
smaller passenger-brig ; when the sailor was
still an exceeding rough son of a gun, charged
to the throat with the traditional infirmities of
his calling ; when no special qualifications were
insisted upon as conditions of a man taking
charge of a vessel ; when ships sailed without
side-lights, and when collisions were averted by
the easy remedy of whipping the lamp out of
the binnacle and flourishing it over the rail ;
when the cabin provisions were only a little
less coarse than the forecastle fare, and when a
passage that is now made in a week occupied
two or three months.

I had obtained the addresses of a few brokers
and owners in the South American trade, hoping
thus to find two or three ships proceeding much
about the same time, but it turned out that the
first vessel on the berth sailed next day and
that her cabin accommodation was full. Her
name, I remember, was the Amazon. The

next vessel, a brig named the Iron Crown, did
not sail until the 23rd, so that even if she
satisfied me we should have to wait eight days.
The office of the owner of this craft was in
Tower Hill, and whilst I was inquiring about
her cabin accommodation the person to whom
I was speaking, motioning towards a man who
had entered a moment before, exclaimed :

'' Here is the master himself, sir. Captain Guy
Breakwater, and he will tell you that a stouter,
swifter, more comfortable ship than the Iron
Crown never sailed out of an English port.
Captain, you will confirm me. What is it now,"
inclining his head and screwing up one eye as
if in thought, '' on a bowline with you ? A
cool thirteen, I believe ? Indeed," he cried,
chafing his hands and grinning, "we may safely
consider the good ship Iron Crown the one
favourite trader between Rio and the Thames."

Well," said Captain Breakwater in the hoarse
voice of a man who has broken his pipes by
rum and years of bawling aloft in gales, "it
Isn't for me to praise the Iron Crown, sir.
She can speak for herself. She only needs to
know that a man's eye is upon her to talk out.

Handsome ! Well I knew old Large Rowley who
laid her keel, and always reckoned him a man
without the least slave of sentiment in his
intellectuals until this here Iron Crown was
launched and lay floating, and then I says to
myself, ' Breakwater,' I says, ' smaller your own
precious eyes, mate, if Large ain't a poet ! ' "

You hear what the captain says, sir ?" cried
the other continuing to chafe his hands.

I took a short survey of Captain Guy Broad-water,
and there stood before me a wide-shouldered,
exceedingly muscular man of fifty,
short, with iron-gray hair and a beard that hung
like a bush at his throat, the chin being shaved.
He had the smallest eyes I ever saw, and their
colour as I now took stock of them seemed red,
but I afterwards discovered that this was due
to congestion caused by rheumatism, or punch, or
both. His nose was of the exact shape of a pear,
and being purple at the nostrils and point, looked
as if it had been lately stung by a bee. His
mouth on the other hand was so small as to correspond,
as a deformity, with his eyes. When he
was not speaking he seemed from the posture of
his lips to be trying, but in vain, to whistle. The

skin of his face was much burnt by the weather,
and it was adorned with a strange subcutaneous
fiHgree-work, or net rather let me term it, of
dusky crimson meshes. He was dressed in
pilot-cloth, and carried in his hand a bell-shaped
beaver, the brim of which was large enough to
furnish out a bishop. Yet ugly and queer ashe
was, there was nothing whatever in his
appearance to offend or prejudice me. I put
him down at once as a coarse, unlettered, but
good-natured sailor of the hearty lively type,
whose physical peculiarities were to a certain
extent to be attributed to bad victuals In early
life, to too much liquor later on, and throughout
to the rouorh usaQ:e of the vocation of the
sea when followed before the mast. I told him
that I was glad to make his acquaintance, and
that I had called with the intention of taking a
passage in his ship, though I would not decide
until I had inspected her.

Sir," said he, " I am going aboard myself
when I have done my business with this
gentleman, and if you don't mind letting' go
your anchor here for five minutes I'll carry ye
straight to the vessel."

They withdrew to an inner office where I
could hear the growling voice of my captain
mingling with the sharp-edged tones of his
owner as though there was a mastiff and a
pug tumbling and larking behind the door.

The skipper presently emerged and put on
his broad-brimmed hat, in which he made so
strange a figure that I could scarce forbear a
laugh. We walked to the river and were
rowed to a brig that was moored in midstream.


'* Here she is!" cried Captain Breakwater;
look at her, sir ! Was there ever beautifully
lines ! Observe the lovely swell of the side !
It might be the breast of a duck, sir. Mark
how clean she comes to the stern-post. In my
opinion she's too good to use ; she's proper
for a show."

There Is no reason why he should not have
been In earnest, for, as her master. It was
conceivable that he should be proud of her.
For my part however I could find no hint
of the charms which threw him into raptures.
The vessel was a stout brig of three hundred
tons, an excellent sea-boat, no doubt, with the

scantling of a line-of-battle ship, but she was
certainly no beauty. She was painted black,
with a narrow yellow streak running the length
of her sides, and had been newly coppered to
the bends ; the lustre of the bright metal was
under her, and she seemed to float in a little
surface of pale sunshine. She was loftily rigged
for a craft of her size and carried exceedingly
square yards, whence I inferred that with her
studding sails abroad she could expand canvas
enough in a breeze of wind to start an island
from its moorings. We gained the side, climbed
up a stout rope-ladder and jumped aboard.

There was a lighter on the starboard bow
and a number of intoxicated lumpers were
hoisting in cargo. It should have been no
new scene to me, yet I found it confusing
enough. The sails were unbent, and the
running rigging unrove, so there were no
ropes' ends to trip over. Nevertheless the
decks were encumbered with all sorts of " raffle,"
as sailors term lumber — casks, hencoops, sacks,
planks, and I know not what else besides.
There was a full-rigged ship a short distance
off getting her anchor, and the fellows at the

windlass were roaring out with hurricane lungs
one of the many working songs with which the
British seaman Inspires his heart and nerves,
his hands and legs. The melody awoke echoes
long ago silent in me. It was at Cape Town
that I had heard it last, and the rouo^h salt air
brought the picture before me in a vision so
clear, sunlight, real — the blue waters of the
wide haven, the groups of ivory-white houses
upon the low shore, the polished azure back of
the huge Atlantic comber poising its arched
summit in a ridge of glassy opal light for a
breath ere thundering Its burthen of snow upon
the beach, the great mountains beyond with
streaks of lace-like mist crawling along their
brows, as though the viewless spirits of the
blue atmosphere up there were spinning a
white fabric of exquisite delicacy out of their
airy looms for the adornment of those giants'
heads — that I seemed to waken with a start to
Captain Breakwater's invitation to step below
and view the cabin.

One hears of the Swiss weeping when
some one tunes up their national cow-strain,
^larlners are a people who have no tears

to Spare : what they possess in that way they
devote to their private woes ; but I do think
nothing so stirs a man who has been a sailor
as the melody of a forecastle chorus. 'Tis
like the wand of a wizard : the curtain rises
to it and there before you lies the past — the
rolling ocean, the gallant fabric in whose
heart you scoured your thousand leagues of
sea, your hearty shipmates, the gay Saturday
carousal, the girl in the distant home from
whose sunny head you nicked the golden
wisp, which many a time you have pressed
to your lips in some mid-ocean solitude, when
there was nobody but the man in the moon
and the man at the wheel to see what you
were at.

'' I have been a sailor myself, captain," said
I, as I followed him to the companion-hatch :
'' and the sound of that stormy chorus out
yonder makes me feel a bit swabbish, do you
know, for quitting the old life."

"Bin a sailor yourself, hey?" he cried,
rounding when at the bottom of the ladder
to take a view of me. " Well, an' I essay
it did ye no harm. There's worse people

knocking about the world than sailors, though
I haven't much respect for that class of
'em which goes by the name of Hands."

I see. Your sympathies are aft."

** Well, I don't know about that either," he
exclaimed rather warmly, as though he
objected to my considering that he had any
sympathies at all, and methought that his
pear-shaped nose as he spoke took a deeper
dye ; then with a flourish of the arm he
said, " This here's the cabin. A noble room,
sir. Must board the Indiamen to find the
like of it."

The vessel had so much beam that her
cabin was larger than I had expected to find it.
The furniture was simple enough : a table,
lockers for seats, snuff-coloured bulkheads without
any sort of ornamentation. At the after
end were four cabins, two of a side, whilst
forward were other but smaller berths.

That end's for the passengers," said the
captain, pointing aft.

I inspected the accommodation and found
it airy and roomy.

'which are to let?" I asked.

"All," he replied; "how many of you are
there, sir ? "

'' Myself and a lady."

*' I reckon there'll be no more then," said he.
Here's four' beautiful bedrooms to choose
from."

Where do yoii^ sleep ? "

Forwards there," said he, pointing with
his nose as a negro does with his chin. " Mean'
my first mate lodges there. The bo'sun
who serves as second mate lies in the fo'k'sle.
There's no interference. You'll be as private
as a chick in its egg. Case of more coming
I'd take the two foremost berths, if I was you.
The helm don't feel to kick so much there,
and If the chap at the wheel should warm his
toes by stamping you won't hear him plain."

I should have been better pleased with a
vessel of twice the burthen of this craft ; but
then to be sure we should start In the height of
the summer when the Bay of Biscay is least
formidable — though let me remember that
the heaviest gale I was ever in was fifty miles
south of Ushant in the month of July — and
once clear of those waters we had a r'lQ-ht to

look for quiet weather during the rest of the
passage. The short chat I had with Broad-water
on returning on deck confirmed my
first impression of him : he was indeed no
very polished companion for ladies, but he
was well enough as sea-captains of his class
and in his trade then went. I was not
surprised to find that the vessel did not carry
a stewardess. You had to look to the height
of the Indiamen in those days for luxuries
of this kind. I asked him what sort of table
he kept.

"An A I copper-bottom table," he answered.
"' Salt beef of the priest — roast pork
poultry twice a week — currant dumplings
taking it all round, a list nigh as lone as

mv arm.

Pretty substantial." I exclaimed.

"Ay," said he, grinning, "there's never no
twopenny kickshaws to be found aboard of
me. No hishee-hashees here, sir, with French
names. All's good solid eating, — dishes which
makes a man feel that he's dined when he
gets up. Give me food that'll coil a chap's
appetite down for him. That's wh)', to my

VOL. I. D

notion, there's ne'er a bit of vittles on this
birth to beat a good leg o' roast pork."

I gathered from these observations that
Miss Grant and I were not Hkely to be
invariably entertained to our tastes, and that
it would therefore be necessary to lay in a
stock of wines and stores for our separate
use ; and having ascertained that I was at
liberty to fill one of the hencoops with poultry
for ourselves, and that if the other cabins
were unlet one of them was at my service asa
larder, I took leave of him, and was rowed
ashore, and without further ado walked to
Tower Hill and engaged two berths in the
brig Iron Crown, Breakwater master. Also,
at this office, to save time, I wrote a letter
to my cousin, in which I named the vessel we
were to sail in and the date of our departure,
and handed it to the owner of the Iron Crown
to transmit with despatches of his own to Rio
by the ship Amazon proceeding next day.

WE EMBARK.

As the brig did not sail for another week,
and as we intended to join her at Deal,
which would give us two or three days
ashore beyond the date of our departure
from the Thames, I procured rooms for
Miss Grant in a private hotel near Bond
Street, so that I was within convenient reach
and saw much of her. In truth the poverty
and melancholy of the street in which she had
lodged rendered the very name of it intolerable
to her, and the gloomy influence of the house
upon her spirits was made more oppressive
yet by the recollection of her father's sufferings
and death and her own privation in it.

The change from such lodgings to the
comforts of a hotel, the sudden removal from

D 2

her mind of the distracting burthen of poverty
and anxiety, the feeling that I was by her
side and that she had a protector in me,
and that in a few weeks she would be with
her sweetheart and married to him, combined
to make another woman of her in those eight
or ten days. Her eyes shone with a clearer
light, and their dark luminous depths gathered
a softness beyond description from the happiness
that was in her. A delicate bloom
lay upon her cheeks, her laugh was sincere,
her smiles full of an honest gaiety. As wee
walked together I would notice that both
men and women stopped to stare after her.
I remember an old dandy with his hat cocked
and a tuft on his chin, coming to a dead
stand on seeing her, then following us and
passing as an excuse to turn again to have
another look. I will not say that she was
insensible to the admiration she excited — she
would have been no true woman to feign such
a thing — but I cannot conceive that any girl
could have shown herself less affected by It.

We took the coach for Deal early on a
Friday morning. The journey was long and

tedious. It was after sunset when we sat
down to the dinner I had ordered in a quaint
hotel that looked directly upon the sea ; but
the moon rode high, clear as crystal in the
dark blue air, and her glorious reflection came
to the very margin of the beach, upon whose
shingle the rippling summer breakers trembled
into snow in a fan-shaped path of glory that
floated as steadily upon the quiet surface as
the orb herself in the breathless sky.

After dinner we walked to the esplanade.
The luggers lying high and dry looked
hoary in the clear and icy light : the seaward-gazing
windows sparkled out to the gush of
the radiance in silver stars ; every shadow
lay like an ebony carving upon a sand-white
ground. Far away, past the yellow winking
spots of the signal lanterns floating off the
Goodwin, was the fitful flashing of violet
lightning. The planets hung large and burnt
richly, and, clear of the sphere of mist-like
radiance that circled the moon, the stars
shone in such numbers that I never remember
witnessing the heavens so crowded. After the
roaring of metropolitan streets, the low washing

sound of the surf along the coast was
inexpressibly soothing and refreshing, and
one's blood coursed to the cool sweetness
of the ocean atmosphere as to a draught of
rare and generous cordial.

There were many ships in the Downs, wan
and spectral in the moonshine. Their riding-lights
resembled a swarm of fire-flies. By bending
the ear you caught from the nearer vessels
the sounds of laughter, the thin strains of a
concerting, the clank of a chain cable dragged
along the deck ; or from the further distance
the faint chorusing of a crew pulling and hauling
aboard some hidden craft that had softly
sneaked into the Downs on the top of the
subtle tide.

'' Which amid that ashen muddle of ships out
yonder will be ours, 1 wonder ? " said I.

How ghostly is the atmosphere that is
made by moonlight at sea ! " exclaimed Miss
Grant, sending her glance along the shining
wake of the luminary, and then looking into
the eastern darkness and talking as if she spoke
to herself "It must be the low-lying stars, I
think, which cause the distance to appear so

terribly remote. The beauty of such a night as
this used to awe me when we were coming to
England — it does so now, though I am on
dry land. It should be as lovely to me as to
others, but it is not so. The mystery of it is
too great — the mystery of the silence and the
pale air and the whispering of the sea along the
shore."

'■ It may be that what is mysterious cannot
be beautiful," said I, finding talk of this sort a
little above my art, though not wanting her to
think that I did not understand her either.
'yet I don't know, I have seen eyes in my
time as secret as the dark sea yonder, and they
were wonderfully beautiful, I assure you."

As I said this a rumbling voice close behind
me exclaimed, " Bort, sir ! beautiful night fora
row, sir ! Water smooth as satin, lady."

I turned and observed a Deal boatman.

No — we shall have enough of the sea
presently. Can you tell me if a vessel named
the Iron Crown has brought up off here ? "

*' What's she like ? " he asked.

A brig," I said, " three hundred tons, newly
sheathed, painted black with a yellow stripe."

Is her capt'n a man with weary small eyes
an' a nose like a sailor's duff ? "

'* That's right."

Then she brought up just afore sundown.
Oi was off fishing' with a party at the time, and
the chap I've described sung out to me to git
out of the road ; " and he pointed seawards with
a shadowy hand, but it was impossible to distinguish
any one ship among the congregation
there. He hung about me a little as though he
would engage me in further conversation, and
then said, "Merry thirsty weather, sir." I
gave him the value of a glass of ale and he
left us.

At the head of human disenchanted," said
I, ',' stands the British long-sherman, with his
cry of ' Bort, sir.' "

Hark ! " exclaimed my companion lifting
her linger.

It was half-past nine, and the bells out upon
the water were sounding the hour. There
were probably two hundred sail in the Downs ;
the tinkling ran in ripples as though a wave
of air raised scores of metallic echoes of
different tones as it swept onwards. Some of

the bells sounded simultaneously ; some followed
one another in chimes ; a few were
mellow, many shrill, more yet of a silver singing
cadence. From the pallid remoteness the tones
came in faint and tiny sounds, after which fell the
silence, and you heard nothing but the fountain-like
seething of foam upon the shingle.

We returned to the hotel, but 1 lingered,
after INliss Grant had retired, for a long hour
upon the balcony overlooking the sea, smoking
a cigar and musing much on the girl and my
cousin Fraser and the voyage on which we
should probably start next day. The moon
hung over the Downs, and through the steady
rain of her silver twinkled the yellow sparks of
the ships' lights. There was a lugger heading
for Deal and comines fair down the middle of the
ice-like path upon the waters. She floated black
against the tremulous shining that went up
behind her to the sea-line, and as you marked
her sweeps or long oars rising and falling you
would have imagined her some gigantic marine
insect stealthily creeping shore wards. From
every lifted blade the water dripped to the
moonshine in diamonds, and the cheep, cheep

of the oars grinding betwixt the thole-pins sent
the fancy roaming to the tropic swamp and to
the mysterious croaking of the tree-toad.

I was up betimes, but Miss Aurea was before
me. She looked as fresh and as fragrant
as Cowper's rose newly washed by a shower.

'the sea," said I, "promises to use you
kindly."

Yes, and I feel well, too, which is better
than looking so."

She was robed in black, her dress fitted her
excellently, her hair was collect into the likeness
of a crown, her dark eyes were full of fire and
life. I did not 'much like to think of her as
being obliged to sit and converse with such a
man as Breakwater and with such people as
his mates were tolerably certain to prove. But
it could not be helped ; though when the
captain's purple face came Into my head I felt
that I should have been ungenerous and mean
indeed to have suffered her to sail alone.
There was a light breeze from the southward.
The upward-bound vessels had got under way,
and the picture was gay and brilliant with the
crowded white canvas of the numerous craft,

the sparkling of the sun in the running waters,
the fitful flashing of the wet oars of boats,
the light blue sky with a stretch of ivory-like
crescents of clouds, resembling new moons
linked and compacted going down to the sea-line,
where a leaning sail or two gleamed like
little obelisks of Parian marble. Miss Grant
came to my side and we stood gazing together.
Presently a waiter arrived, asked if my name
was Musgrave, and said there was a gentleman
inquiring for me. A moment or two afterwards
Captain Breakwater entered.
I - He gave Miss Grant a bow that was a sheer
convulsion in its way, and said, " I thought I'd
look in here, sir, afore I went aboard. There'll
I be nothing to keep us when you and the lady
are over the side. There's not much weight in
this here wind, but the tide serves, and I'm never
for waiting when there's a chance to get away."
"You are very right," said I; 'but we
haven't breakfasted yet, captain. There's time
enough for that, I hope ? " And thinking he was
going to object, I added, "You'll join us .'^
Nothing like shore-going food and cooking
down to the last moment."

He answered that he had already breakfasted,
but that on reflection he felt himself equal to
another meal, and the waiter arriving with the
ham and coffee we sat down. I have seen men
with immense appetites In my day, but no man
who ever came near to Breakwater in this way.
It was not only the quantity he devoured ; It
was the rapidity with which he ate. He took a
hot roll, tore the crumb out, buttered and then
bolted the whole without winking and in a
breath. He picked up an egg-spoon, and after
inspecting it an instant, called the waiter and
asked him what It was. The waiter explained.
Bring me a proper spoon ! " he roared in a
voice that caused Miss Grant to start and
glance at me with a little air of consternation.
The man handed him a dessert-spoon, with
which he struck the egg as though it had been
a sailor's head, then scooped out the Inside and
swallowed the whole, afterwards seizing another
egg, all so quickly that It was like watching the
performance of a conjuror. He never offered
to speak a word until he had eaten as much
breakfast as would have sufficed me for a week,
though he made an end before Miss Grant and

I had fairly begun. My companion looked at
me as if she would say, " I told you what sort
of people the captains are in this trade ; " I
was more struck however by his manner of
roaring to the waiter than bv the rest of his
behaviour. " If this is not a ship's bully all of
the olden time," I thought to myself. "let his
appetite be called delicate."

He now began to tell me in a hoarse voice
about his passage down the river to the Downs,
and how a West Indiaman in bringing up at
midnight had fouled his cable and nearly run
aboard him. " But," said he, " there's no seamanship
to be expected from the men who gets
command of them big ships. They're hired
for their faces and their tricks of speechifying
and caper-cutting and grinning out answers
without losing their tempers when the ladies
bother 'em with questions. Put them into a
situation that requires real nautical knowledge
and they can only stand and look on. If \'ou
want to be cut down, or your spars brought
about your ears, them's the o-ents to show ve
how It's done."

All this was very pig-headed talk ; but if he

should prove, as I suspected, full of salt
prejudices and antique sea-notions, I at all
events should not be without one favourite
source of diversion during the voyage.

Our baeeaee was on board the brier. The
little we had with us was conveyed to one of
the vessel's boats that was lying off the beach
waiting for the captain. Miss Grant sprang
to the gunwale and thence to a thwart with inimitable
grace that was full of a generous disdain
of the extended hand of one of the seamen.
I followed, and Breakwater bundled in after me.
Shove off! " he bawled as though in a passion.
The boat's head was slewed for the brig, and
the three men fell to their oars.

There were fifty things to admire as our
little keel was swept forwards : the gray bald
stare of the Foreland point with the sheen of
the chalk trembling off it upon the blue atmosphere
beyond ; the ships still at anchor growing
large to our approach, their glossy sides twinkling
to the rippling lustre in the water like the
tremble of sunlight amid the shadows of dancing
leaves ; the sudden flash of a cabin-window to
the movement of the hull as though a cannon

had been fired from it ; the various colours and
devices of a dozen different nations' ensigns
languidly fluttering their bright folds from masthead
and peak ; the line of green and yellow
coast sweeping into an airy dimness of pallid
cliff as wan in the distance of the brilliant north
as the crescent of the moon floating in the noontide
heavens ; the quaint aspect of the hearty
old smuggling town whose foreground of brown
shingle gleamed black to the recoil of the
washing breaker, whilst it offered the saltest
imaginable picture in the shape of fleets of
yellow luggers high and dry, and the figures
of boatmen lounging, scrubbing, mending
nets, and boiling pitch-pots.

There were plenty of things, I say, to look
at, yet I do not remember that I took notice of
much outside the three men who were rowing
us to the brig. They belonged of course to
the ship's company. One was a half-blood of
a dark olive complexion and eyes like shoes
resting on slices of lemon. His hands were as
small as a girl's, beautifully shaped, though
corned and horny and palm-blackened by the
tar and drudgery of shipboard. The others

were plain ginger-haired British lobscousers —
one with a beard of stubble that projected from
his chin like the thatch of a sour-wester, both
knob-nosed and rugged as the shell of a walnut.
Their feet were naked, their rough breasts
lay bare to the light, their nervous muscular
arms were decorated with bracelets, crucifixes,
anchors, female figures, pricked in with the
pale blue of the sailor's pigment. All three of
them wore a sullen look — not the expression of
evil-minded men, but of persons rendered sulky
and resentful by ill-usage. I saw the half-blood
glance at Miss Grant, and a sort of light broke
upon his face and swept the dogged air out of
it as a smile clears a sour brow ; but his eye
Instantly went from her to Breakwater and fella
singular look of loathing and hate darkened
his countenance, and 1 witnessed the impulse of
a violent emotion in him In the quick, savage
swing he gave his oar. It was like a curse !

Here were tokens not to please me who, as a
man that had passed some years at sea, had
preserved an eye for the interpretation of
sailors' meanings. If the crew were dissatisfied
at this early stao^e, then old Breakwater and his

mates must have gone to work with an incredible
promptitude to make their true characters
known to them. Had they a grievance ?
Their provisions would have been fresh meat
and loaves of .bread down to this point, and they
could not therefore know what the forecastle
stores were like. Was the vessel leaky ? It
was to be hoped she was not. No ! it could be
nothing less than Breakwater. Well, if the
men were growling now, what would be their
posture later on ? I was sufficiently well . acquainted
with the character of merchant seamen
to know that often the very best sailors amongst
them are those who curse the deepest in their
gizzards. I was also aware that there was
nothing uncommon in a crew finding plenty ot
time and excuses to mutiny in a run from Black-wall
to the Forelands, going ashore with bag
and baggage in a body, and obliging the ship to
wait off Deal until the crimps could roll a new
crew into her forecastle. All this was. as it still
is, in the ordinary course of the ocean life.
But the looks of the three thinly-clad fellows
made you think of something more significant
han the familiar causes of the forecastle rebellion.

VOL I E

However they pulled too briskly to give me
time to consider them very attentively. The
boat buzzed through the water, and the brig
ahead rapidly enlarged upon the view.

'* Is that the ship ?" exclaimed Miss Grant.

I answered, yes.

"Is there anything afloat to beat her?"
exclaimed Breakwater in a deep-sea voice.

The half-blood turned his head upon his
shoulder as if he would have his mates observe
what was in his mind by his look.

Oars ! " bawled the captain. '' Out boathook,
you dog ! " to the man in the bows.
"Good thunder !" he growled, "what is thereto
make the somers who ship as sailors nowadays
skip, if it ain't gunpowder in their shoes and a
lighted match 'twixt their toes ? "

We swang alongside and gained the deck.

THE VOYAGE BEGINS.

The moment Captain Breakwater's foot was
on shipboard he shouted out, '' Man the
windlass, Mr. Bothwell ! Get this here boat
hoisted some of you! Jump, bushes, jump!
There's wind enough to blow us away if ye
don't stop to curl your hair ! " which said, he
forthwith fell to bundlinof about on his rounded
shanks, running here and there, looking round
and aloft, bawling to the mate who had gone
forward, and apparently employing every art of
which he was master to render the scene of
commotion one of sheer distraction.

There seemed about fourteen of a crew, not
counting the captain and mate. A few of them
came to the davits to get the boat up, the rest
laid hold of the windlass handles and began to

E 2

heave. You heard the clank, clank, of the
pals and the grinding chink of the cable
coming in link by link. *' Sing out, my liveries !
heave to the girls, lads ! heave and sing ! heave
and raise the dead ! sing out, men ! clap a
tune to your muscles, my splinters ! heave ! "
cried out the mate (as I supposed the dark
young fellow who spoke these words to be) ;
and I was not a little relieved to hear after a
minute or two the peculiar long-drawn notes
of a seaman breaking into a working sone,
followed at the proper interval by the whole
body of men delivering the chorus with the
true old hurricane note. It would have been
a. bad sign had they not sung. Only a sailor
would appreciate the meaning of silence
among the crew of a merchantman getting her
anchor.

I took Miss Grant below to show her her
berth. There was no smiling and curtseying
stewardess to receive her ; no obliging steward
and his mates to fly to my bidding. The very
cabin-boy was at the windlass, and there was
nothing living under deck if it were not a lurking
cockroach or a concealed rat. But then

I

happily we could not miss what we had not
been used to, nor complain of the omission of
what we had no reason to expect. Put the
mail-boat traveller of to-day back fifty years
and he would probably be the most forlorn and
melancholy sea-borne object under the sky. I
had forgotten to ask Captain Breakwater if
there were other passengers, but there was no
further need to trouble him : the doors of the
berths were open, and a single glance sufficed
to let me know that Miss Grant and I were
alone. All for the best no doubt, thought I ;
think of some fellow here in these pent-up
quarters with a snore like the escape of steam,
or of some lean splenetic Spaniard, constantly ill,
and full of growling in smooth water, and of
aves and litanies in stormy weather !

It is not every one who would choose to
sail with Captain Breakwater," said Miss
Grant, evidently surprised at our being the
only passengers.

You do not like him ? I am sorry. I was
glad to get an early ship — "

No, no, Mr. Musgrave, I do not mean
that. How could you tell what sort of a person

he would prove to be. I think you will find
that he treats his crew inhumanly."

I lifted my eyebrows ; I had not imagined
she would have seen so quickly into such a
matter as that.

Nor," continued she smiling, " do I fancy
that we shall find him a very agreeable table-companion.
But no matter. Rio is not so
very, very far off now ! "

We exchanged these sentences whilst we
stood before our cabin-doors. Our luggage
lay in a heap aft against the transom, but it
was better there than in the hold. There
was no one to help us, and so we shifted for
ourselves. Between us we dragged the boxes
and portmanteaux into our berths, and I found
a new quality to admire in Tvliss Grant in
the form of a sturdy spirit of independence.
No complaints, no regrets, no peevish murmurs
over our being neglected. I recollect that
I thought — were we to be cast away, here
is the girl to show the sailors how to manage.
Little did I imagine what was before us when
that fancy passed through my head !

The necessary furniture for sleeping lay in

my bunk, but It was evident I should have
to make my own bed. In the spare cabin
next mine was our private stock of provisions.
I cast my eyes over the hampers and cases,
and knowing what they contained, considered
that, taking our hive stock into account, we
should fare on the whole tolerably enough.
Calling to Miss Grant that she would find
me on deck, I mounted the companion-ladder,
and on emerging discovered that the crew
had tripped the anchor and were running
about making sail. There were many vessels
getting under way at this time, and the
picture was full of animation and colour.
The jib had been hoisted, and the brig's
head was slowly paying off ; hands aloft were
shouting to people below to hoist away and
sheet home ; the men on deck were hoarsely
bawling as they dragged upon the sheets and
halliards ; purple-faced old Breakwater standing
near the wheel was roaring out orders
in whole volleys, and the mate in the waist,
who had a singularly shrill voice for a man,
heightened the general clamour by re-echoing
the captain's orders in notes which sounded

like screams. As If all this were not distracting
enough, the pigs under the long-boat,
irritated by neglect, by fasting, or by the
hubbub about them, were squealing as though
somebody were stirring them up, whilst the
concert was still further intensified by the
crowing and the crackling of the cocks and
hens in the coops. That the sailors should
sing out at the ropes was reasonable and desirable
; seamen as they haul take time from
their songs, otherwise the business of hoisting,
bracing up, sheeting-home would be like drawling
teeth. But what purpose could Captain
Breakwater serve by roaring to his crew as
if they were a company of villains whom
nothing short of noise and execrations could
urge to exertions ?

As I stood looking on, my eye was taken by
the mate. He was a man apparently of my
own age, tall and thin, with nothing of the air
of a sailor about him. His complexion was
exceedingly sallow but his features were strikingly
handsome — such a nose, mouth, and forehead
as you would expect to find only in some
marble fancy of a heathen deity. His eyes

were large and black and amazingly rapid in
their movements, insomuch it seemed incredible
that glances could be darted with the swiftness
I have witnessed in this man. An extraordinary
point was, his hair was that of a negro : as sheer
curly black wool as ever adorned the pate of a
M umbo jumbo. It was a very puzzling feature,
for assuredly there was no more of the African
in him than there was in me. He had a small
moustache, and only needed a sovibi^ero hat, a
cutlass, and a girdle full of pistols, to offer the
completest imaginable copy of a pirate. His
shrill words leapt as rapidly from his lips as his
glances from his eyes, but he seemed incapable
of delivering even the most commonplace order
without temper. His English was that of an
educated man, nor could I discover that it
was tainted in the least degree by a foreign
accent.

Before long all plain sail had been made, and
the brig, with her bowsprit pointing to a down-channel
course, was leaning lightly under the
pressure of the summer breeze and pushing
gently through the trembling blue surface.
The men had ceased their songs ; there was no

further occasion for the captain to bawl, and
something Hke silence was upon the little ship.
Well, thought I, here am I fairly started at
last ! and as I looked at the town of Deal
sparkling to the high sun, and at the old chalk
ramparts soaring to the brow of the Foreland
giant, a queer feeling thickened my sight for an
instant, though it vanished with the *' Pshaw ! "
it evoked from me. But this was an. old
weakness. I believe had I used the ocean for
twenty years, and was still going a voyage every
twelvemonth, the sight of the cliffs of the old
home quietly sliding away on the quarter and
melting into the blue atmosphere would affect
me as it did in my boyhood.

I turned to join the captain, and was confronted
by Miss Grant. The joyousness in her
face seemed to rebuke me. She had brought
her hands together, and was gazing from the
sails to the land with her lips parted, her breath
coming and going quickly, her eyes full of
gladness.

There Is one gay heart aboard," said I
quietly.

It Is like a dream to me, Mr. Muso^rave ! "

she exclaimed, '' when I think of my dull
lodgings — and the thoughts that terrified me
there — the dread of never seeing Alexander
again — and now to find myself going to him —
only a few weeks between us, — a kind friend by
my side — I. who a few days ago had no friend
" She paused and repeated almost in a
whisper, " It is like a dream to me."

It is real enough," I exclaimed ; "yonder is
stuff much too substantial to serve as a fabric
for the manufacture of visions," and I glanced
in the direction of Captain Breakwater, who,
now that his ship was fairly under way, had
started on the regular pendulum walk of the
quarter-deck — a true sea-sawing from abreast of
the wheel to forward of the main shrouds with
a stare aloft, a look to windward, and then a
spin of the heels for another turn ; and so on as
I have seen the things done rio^ht through a four

c> c> o

hours' watch.

"Who is that man?" asked Miss Grant,
indicating the chief mate, who was standing in
the gangway with his eye aloft to witness, if he
could, any imperfection in the trim of the yards
and the set of the sails. I told her, and added,

"He looks fitter for the stage than for shipboard.
I hope I do not misjudge him ; but if
he would not knife a sailor with as little compunction
as he would harpoon a dolphin, then
the cut of his jib badly libels his soul."

She watched him with fast failing curiosity and
presently sent her gaze seawards. The draught
of air had slightly freshened ; we were slipping
past the South Foreland and opening the broad
range of the Channel over the starboard bow.
There was a small swell here, just enough to
give a slight lift and fall to the jibboom, and to
raise a faint seething noise at the cutwater,
along with the airy tinkle of foam-bells sliding
iridescent as beads of oil into the eddies of the
short wake under the counter. There were
ships all about us, and upon the far sea-line you
saw the snow-like shining of canvas, serenely
luminous as any star, and the dim pearly
shadow beyond of the coast of France. I
walked aft with Miss Grant to survey the brig
from the best place in which a ship is to be
viewed when you are aboard her, and here
we were joined by Breakwater, who, as he
approached us, pulled out and cast his little

eyes upon an immense, almost round, silver
watch.

Pretty nigh time to go to dinner," said he.
"It's a blessed thing to be born with a good
appetite. There's never no harm in a man that
eats hearty. I'd rather judge of a fellow-being's
conscience by his appetite than by his actions."

What country does your chief mate belong
to ? " I inquired.

'' That's more than I can tell you, sir," he
replied. " He calls himself a Scotchman, but
his hair don't look North Country. His name's
Bothwell — Neil Bothwell. He's the proper
sort of man for sailors. Never was a chap who
could work up old iron like him."

'' Are sailors animals that they require
working up, as you term it ? " inquired Miss
Grant.

Well, perhaps they ain't, miss," he replied.
Animal's too soft a term for 'em. The proper
word's beast — wild beast, mum ; there ye have
it!"

I observed that whenever this captain laboured
under any sudden excitement his nose
reddened to it as though emotion could find

no other feature to express Itself in ; owing to
his eyes being much too small to convey his
mind, and to the purple meshes which overspread
his countenance like a net that prevented
any particular expression of intelligence from
rising to the surface. Methought there was
something malevolent in the air with which he
turned his eyes from Miss Grant to cast a
glance aloft.

"Nothing off! Nothing off!" he suddenly
shouted, whipping round upon the fellow that
was steering ; " where d'ye think the ship's
bound to, you scowbanker ? Keep her to her
course ! " he rolled menacing to the wheel and
addressed the man in a low voice, whilst he
thrust his face into the binnacle. The fellow
put the wheel down by a spoke or two, with a
dogged look and a sullen twist of his eye upon
the captain. I think he believed the skipper
had meant to strike him. A sheath knife lay
upon his hip, and the muscles of his arms,
which were bare to the elbow, stood up like
ridges of iron under the weather-browned flesh.
Breakwater after some further muttering returned
to us.

"You were speaking of sailors, ma'am," said
he ; " there's but one way of finding out the sort
of people they are. You must take command
of a ship. Of course there's nothing good
enough for 'em. They come to the vessel imbecile
with drink out of the alleys in which they
live when ashore, with nothing to wear but the
rags they stand up in, and without having tasted
food for a week maybe ; and they're no sooner
aboard than up turns their noses to whatever's
offered to them, and the growling' begins. What's
their wattles ? Beef, pork, tea, bread, mollasses,
vinegar — things they'd never have snowed the
names of if they hadn't been sailors ; for as
landsmen they couldn't have earned as much as
would have brought their eyes to the sight of 'em.
They like the money they take up, but the work
don't suit their delicate constitutions. Tell 'ee
what it is : there's been a great deal too much
said about the British sailor. He's been led
into such fancies of his own consequence that
he's now ate up with vanity. ' Ne'er another
nation, I'm told,' he says, says he, 'can produce
the likes of me ! ' An' he don't know how
right he is. Ne'er another nation do I For

what's the name of the country whose sailors
are within laing distance of him in the art
of loafing, growling, mutineers, and giving
trouble all round ? "

*' Your crew are contented, I hope ?" said I.

]vie and the mate '11 keep 'em satisfied, I
warrant ye," he answered.

I must confess I did not like this man's
views and talk. But then I reflected that
sailors are, on the whole, a long-suffering
people ; that in every crew there Is a proportion
of sensible men who keep the others
straight by their resolution to out-weather the
captain, even If he should prove old Nick
himself, sooner than be betrayed by Injurious
usage Into an act that would procure the forfeiture
of their wages. I likewise considered
that Breakwater had doubtless been master
for some years, and that he had experience
enough to distinguish the line where surly
and dissatisfied obedience ends, and mutiny —
defiant, reckless, and often deadly — begins.
Meanwhile I held my tongue, for I was in no
humour to enter into an argument with him
upon the virtues and vices of the British

sailor. I observed that Miss Grant watched
him furtively, but with attention. Yet his face
was but little better thai a mask. It was
impossible to decipher his ; mind by looking at
him. He had no other faculty of self-interpretation
than his speech. Nature had restricted
his capacity of expression to that.

Shortly after this the cabin-boy arrived to
announce dinner. The time had slipped away
swiftly, and it was now one o'clock.
The lad must mean hunch ? " said I.
"No fear!" said Breakwater; 'dinner sir,
dinner ! "

'' And pray what Is the next meal called ? "
I asked.

'' Supper, sir ; served at half-past five ; much
as a man can eat or ought to eat 'long with
tea. Should ye feel faint towards bed-time,
there's biscuit, cheese an' pickles. No chance
of passengers starving aboard me ! "

"Oh, we shall manage very well, I have no
doubt," I exclaimed soothingly.

He trudged below leaving Miss Grant and
me to follow.
'' A true sea-bear, Mr. Musgrave, "she whispered.

VOL. I. F

Yet he was fairly well spoken ashore," said
I. " But to keep one's temper is the great
secret of happiness. And, besides, we need
see as little of him as we choose."

He kept us waiting, and when he emerged
from his cabin his face shone from what he
himself would have called a " wash down." You
might have thought he had soaped his hair
as well as his face : it lay as a skull-cap on his
head and glistened in the light, and I took
notice of a polished spike of it projecting beyond
either ear as though the old fellow had rounded
off his toilet with a couple of notes of admiration.
It is not many years since I made a
voyage to the West Indies in a mail steamer
that would have carried me on to Rio, had I
desired* to visit that port ; and I well remember
that this, our first meal aboard the /7^o?i Crown,
recurred to me as vividly as though it had
been an experience of yesterday when I sat
down in the shining saloon of the great steam-palace
at a table, white, rich, glittering with
damask and glass and silver, and a waiter
behind my chair to attend to my selections
from a bill of fare which no excellent hotel

could go far beyond. The cabin-boy of the
Iron Crown was a tall, knock-kneed, dejected-looking
youth, who was making his first voyage ;
he was already oppressed with nausea, and his
anxiety and fear of the captain were horrible.
I think I see him now, breathing hard as he
put a tureen of hot pea-soup (at which he was
too ill to glance) before old Breakwater, and
then staggering back with his eyes half out of
his head, as though persuaded he had blundered
in some way and that the captain would instantly
rise and fall upon him. Our repast —
and I will ask you to consider the time of year
consisted of this same soup, a boiled leg of
pork, a dish of potatoes smoking in their jackets,
and a pudding of the shape and appearance of
a small bolster spotted with currants. The captain
drank rum and water, and ate like a ship-wrecked
man ; and that he might not think us fastidious,
and so ground and justify to himself a still
more objectionable manner than he had as yet
discovered, Miss Grant and I partook of the
soup and toyed with a slice of the pork, but
declined the pudding on the plea that the
excellent breakfast we had made had left us

F 2

without appetite. The skylight lay open, but
the atmosphere was nevertheless oppressive,
and I was not a little grateful that the brig
should be sailing along on a level keel ; for
though I was never sea-sick in my life I am
persuaded that, had the vessel's motion been
lively, the hot atmosphere of the cabin coupled
with the strong fumes of the repast would have
rendered me very uneasy. Breakwater was so
well pleased with his dinner that he suffered
the cabin-boy to stagger through the task of
waiting without giving him one injurious word ;
but the terrified concern of the lad satisfied
me that though the brig had sailed from the
Thames but a day or two before, he had in
that brief time undergone discipline enough to
make him heartily wish himself at home again
with his friends.

As I handed Miss Grant up the companion-steps,
she exclaimed : '' I fear you will have to
thank me for some uncomfortable experiences —
and yet think of me alone in this vessel ! "

** Never trouble yourself about me, Miss
Grant," said I, '' 1 shall begin to enjoy myself
presently. Here am I face to face with an

aspect of life quite worth examining, believe me.
One miQ^ht wish indeed that there were other
passengers, for Breakwater has the look of a
man in whom decorousness is only to be contrived
by a combination of fares. But he shall
help to divert us yet ! "

1 returned to the cabin to get a deck-chair I
had purchased, together with a parcel of books,
and made her comfortable. But there was
nothing in literature to detain her eye or mine
just then. The breeze had freshened, yet it
blew a little before the beam, and the brig with
her port tacks aboard had just heel enough to
suggest speed by her posture. We where hauling
out from the land that trended away to starboard
in streaks of dim green and white and
brown, with here and there a brilliant star-like
shining upon it from some object that sent back
the sunlight. About a quarter of a mile to
windward of us, was a large Indiaman, bound
as we were, and passing us, but slowly. There
were soldiers aboard her, and the line of the
forecastle and main-deck was spotted with bright
red uniforms ; whilst, from under the violet
twilight of the awning stretched over the poop-deck,

you caught the glance of thinking lace
and metal buttons, and the fluttering coloured
drapery of ladies standing or walking. Her
large cabin-windows trembled back the shivering
lustre that rose to them off the flashing hurry of
waters. Her wake followed her like a narrow-band
of white satin, and as the dark blue curl at
the cutwater arched its luminous ridge into snow,
the leap of the froth to the afternoon splendour
resembled a scattering of gems, or the shattering
of a fragment of rainbow. That is the sort of
ship to make a voyage in, I thought to myself ;
but it would not have been kind to say so. Miss
Grant's ofaze was full of delight and admiration.
She let me know that she had a sailor's eye for atmospheric
effect when she bade me observe how
the white light of the canvas appeared to overflow
the boundaries of the gleaming spaces, and dissolve
upon the blue beyond like the sheen from a
sky-line of snow-clad hills standing fair against
the liquid sapphire of the winter heavens. But
though the Indiaman was soon ahead of us we
were sailing, too, and there was comfort in
knowing it. Round as were the bows of the
Iron Crozvn I judged that she had the trick of

blowing along whenever the wind found her a
chance, and that her run to Rio might prove
nimbler than her shape, as she lay in the Pool,
had promised me. Thus we slipped onwards,
dImlnlshInQ: the land until It fell into blobs of
film and hovering streaks of blue ; and by sundown
we might have been in the heart of one of
ocean's deepest solitudes but for three or four
orange-tinctured sail, like dashes of light in the
far distance, and but for the water our stem was
rending being of a hue as different from the
deep, dark, beautiful, pure blue of the fathomless
surge as were old Breakwater's eyes from
those of Miss Aurelia.

AN INCIDENT IN THE CHANNEL.

Had I embarked on this voyage despondently,
I believe I should have found a reason for
the gloom on my mind in a very extraordinary
incident that occurred on this the first night of
our departure from England.

Supper had been served at half-past five.
Breakwater thus spoke of this meal because it
was, as it still is, one of the perversities of the
forecastle parlance, so to entitle the hook-pot of
tea, the pieces of ship's bread, and the remains
of the contents of the noontide kid of beef or
pork, which form the last of the mariner's three
repasts. I had requested the captain to order
one of my fowls to be killed and cooked as a
provision against the oppressively substantial
fare of the cabin ; and though to be sure the

bird came to the table somewhat tough for the
want of keeping, and somewhat prickly with unplucked
quills, it at least provided us with a
lighter entertainment than we should have
found in the cold leg of pork, in the dish of fried
slices of pudding, and in the liver and bacon
which the cabin-boy placed upon the table. A
great teapot was put before Breakwater, who
poured out cupfuls of a liquor black as ink ;
from the depths of which, on stirring it, there
arose quite a little plantation of twigs and leaves.
He told us that there was milk enough onboard
to last until tomorrow, after which we
must be satisfied to take our tea "neat," as he
called it.

'' Few vessels of the size of this brig carry
cows, I suppose ?" said I.

Xo," he answered, 'nor goats neither. It's
astonishing that the art of feeding people onboard
ship should have rose to what it is, considering
how few vittles there are which ain't of
a perishable kind. They'll put up effigies to
chaps who write books, to play-actors, to folks
like politicians who get on for themselves and
don't do nobody else any good ; but if ever

mortis! man In this here blooming' world deserved
a statue it was the fellow who first
hit on the notion of steeping beef In brine to
keep It fit and sweet for sailors' use. Think of
being able to get when afloat — mind ye, miss,
I says afloat — such a dinner as we've had today
! The mere sight of such food at sea — not
an ounce of salt In the whole billing neither — Is
enough to make a man think his eyes must
have gone wrong ! " and he lifted his hands and
gazed upwards with the air of a person overwhelmed
with astonishment.

At this early stage It was difficult to tell
whether he desired us to accept him as a
humorist. But it was not long before I discovered
that he was neither a wit nor a wag,
and that he was only comical when he had not
the least intention of being so.

Whilst we were at supper the mate came below
and took his seat quietly, saluting Miss
Grant and me with a bow. But for his hair I
must certainly have thought him one of the
handsomest men I had ever seen, now that I
could view him closely and observe the delicacy
of his lineaments. His woolly crop was however

fatal to him. It was a feature that neutralized
all others, even when his head was
covered ; the effect of the exposure of the whole
growth fell little short of a shock. I tried to
engage him in conversation ; but he was very
reserved, answering merely in monosyllables
with a constant reference in his manner to old
Breakwater, whose presence I supposed kept
him quiet. Once or twice he glanced at ]\Iiss
Grant, but so swiftly it was scarcely possible
that he should be conscious he looked at her.
He despatched his meal quickly, rose, bowed tous
again, and went to his berth in the forward
part of the cabin.

Is your mate a smart sailor ? " I asked.

** There never was a smarter," answered
Breakwater. "See him aloft. He'll spring to
the yardarm from the slings, and '11 be jockeying
of it when the liveliest of the hands isn't
up with the futtock shrouds."

Have you known him long ?"

"He was my mate last voyage," he replied,

ting the lid of the locker next to him and
pulling out a bottle of rum ; and then calling
for water he mixed himself as stout a worcester

as ever sailor put to his lips, though he
had already swallowed three large cups of tea.

'^ He has not the air of a seamen," said Miss
Grant.

"So little," I exclaimed, "that I am surprised,
captain, to hear you speak of him asa
taut hand."

*' Taut ? well, that's perhaps the word, sir. I
don't know that he's not almost as taut as me,
and in saying that I pay him as handsome a
compliment as one man could give to another :
for let me tell you, Mr. Musgrave, that you
might coast the whole of Great Britain and not
meet with a shipmaster who could hold a candle
to me in the art of managing sailors."

Glad to hear it," said I, rising, not very well
pleased by the languishing glance he cast at the
bottle, as though debating whether to take
another sup or return the liquor to the locker.

The afternoon had been hot and blinding
with sunshine. The evening that now stole
down upon us from astern with a single jewel
glittering upon its brow, albeit the western sky
was still crimson, with lagoons of delicate green
amid the amber and rose and scarlet of the

light high clouds there, was delicious and tranquillizing,
full of dewy softness and the balm of
the shadows which trail in the wake of a glaring
day. The radiance was so illusive that the
sea looked to go bare to its confines, and the
sense of solitude you got when you gazed over
the rail could not have been more complete
had the Iron Crown been floating deep in the
heart of the Pacific.

Miss Grant and I paced the deck, greatly
enjoying the coolness and repose of the night.
Our talk was chiefly about her early life, her
father and mother, Rio, Fraser, and the like.
It seems that on her mother's side she came of
a race of grandees, one of whom was an officer
under Don Pedro de Valde when that Admiral
surrendered to Drake, and she said it was a
tradition in the family that he was the only man
aboard the Spaniard who exhibited any kind of
reluctance to being made a prisoner by Sir
Francis. Her mother took her to old Spain, as
she called it, when she was a child, but though
she met several relatives she could recollect
nothing of them beyond their haughty manners
and grandiose airs. Indeed, I gathered that

her mother's noble connections accepted her
marriage as a blow to the family dignity. " And
yet my father," said Miss Grant, 'came of as
good a stock as any In Scotland. Pray, what
Spanish woman of title Is too good for a Scotch
gentleman of high descent ? " I ought to love
my mother's native country ; but she is poor and
has sunk so low that, until she can take her old
place in Europe again, the pretensions of her
ancient nobility must continue to be almost too
ridiculous to laugh at."

Whilst we walked and chatted the time insensibly
slipped away. Once Breakwater rolled
over to us puffing a pipe. He offered no
apology to Miss Grant for smoking in her
presence, though those were days when behaviour
of this sort was considered a barbarous
Incivility to a lady.

There is grog and biscuit to be had below,"
he exclaimed, " if you or the lady has a mind
for a sup before turning in."

Thank you, we require nothing more."

The boys lock up at half-past nine," said he.
but the cabin-light's left burning all night.
There's never no need for groping aboard of me.

What I says to my owner Is, treat your passengers
well and they'll stick to ye. Fvi not a man to be
scared by a ha'porth of ile. Tell 'ee, ]mr. ]^Ius-
grave, how to read a man's character : watch
him carve, sir ? There's some as '11 help ye as
though when what they're serving: out is gone
there "11 be nothing more left to eat on this
blooming birth. Others '11 act as though they
understood you was a man. That's my kind.
Aboard me everything's up to the knocker."

He uttered a loud unmeaning laugh that
instantly flavoured the atmosphere with the
odour of rum.

We must consider ourselves very fortunate
to fall into such good hands," said I. "A man
of purple cheer, to use the language of the poet,
is a person quite to my liking."

His eyes were so small that it was impossible
to judge whether they were unsteady or not.
He seemed to look at me as if he suspected a
sarcasm in my words, and an objectionable meaning
in my employment of the word " purple " ;
he then with a flourish of the stem of his pipe
to his forehead walked over to the binnacle, and
I after blowing some clouds of smoke with many

a long look around and up at the canvas,
knocked the ashes out of his bowl, gave some
directions to the boatswain, who, acting as
second mate, had charge of the deck, and went
below.

He thinks of nothing but eating," said
Miss Grant.

'' I hope that may be all," I answered : then
checking some expression of dislike and mistrust
I was about to utter, I changed the subject by-calling
her attention to the lovely effect of the
moonlight upon the sails of the brig. By daylight
the vessel was the sweetest bit of commonplace
; but now that the magic pencils of the
moon were busy with her, every feature was
chastened, the homeliest and coarsest detail
softened by the rich clear glow into a fairy
delicacy of airy outline and silvered substance.
She floated clothed with beauty, and swam like
a sweet imagination through the shining air.
Her decks gleamed out with the whiteness of
the peeled almond : the black line of every seam
between the planks lay as sharp to the sight as
the ebon shadows of the rigging sliding to and
fro to the sleepy stirring of the vessel ; there

was weight enough In the draught of air to hold
the canvas motionless, and every hollow was
like the image of a sail carved in alabaster.
The boatswain stumped the weather-deck, and
his shadow at his feet was more keenly black
there than his figure against the sky. The
fellow at the wheel stood starless, but for an
occasional movement of his arms, and you
would have thought It was the stars that ran as
they slipped up and down past him, so imperceptible
was the curtseying of the brig.
The dew along the rail sparkled crisply, as
though, since moonrise, some secret fingers had
encrusted the line of bulwarks with seems.
Forward all was still ; save under the yawn ot
the fore-course I could distinguish the figure of
the look-out man stepping athwart the forecastle,
sometimes pausing to lean over the side to send
his gaze Into the pale distance ahead. There
was no orleans of llorht aloof the ranee of the
starboard seaboard where the coast was.

"If this were to last," exclaimed Miss Grant,
the voyage would be delightful In spite of the.
disagreeable obligation of having to take our
meals with the captain."

VOL. I. G

'' Delightful, yes ; but too long I fear," said I.
'' We want wind, Miss Grant ; we need what
the ship brokers term despatch. This moonlight,
this quiet sea, this gentle wind, the transformation
of this old bucket into a fabric of marble
and diamonds and pearl, are enchanting indeed,
but conditions fit only for pleasure-making.
You are in a hurry, and I shall not be reluctant
to see Rio heave into view either. Give me,
instead of the beauty of such a night as this,
the thunder of half a gale of wind blowing over
our quarter, a high green frothing sea chasing
us, that same moon up yonder whisking like a
silver round-shot from the edge of one dark
cloud to another, and the brig with a reef in her
fore-sail and the main-topgallant sail set over
the double-reefed topsail hurling through an
acre of foam of her own making, with the white
seething and hissing smother boiling into her
wake that stretches to the very line of the
tumbling horizon ! "

An excellent description, Mr. Musgrave,
and it is what we want as you say. You have
not forgotten your old calling. You talk easily
enough of reefs and sails."

"When," said I, ''a man has dipped his hand
into the tar-pot the stain of the stuff never
quits him. Once a sailor, always a sailor."

At this moment five bells were struck by
some one on the main deck.

What time is that ? " she inquired.

*' Half-past ten," I answered.

So late ! " she exclaimed ; " it is time to goto
bed. Good-night, Mr. Musgrave.''

Let me see you to your cabin," said I, and
down we went.

The lamp had been dimmed spite of the
skipper's indifference to ha'porths of oil, but
there was light enough to see by. I was glad
to find the little bracket-lamps in our cabins
alight. I suppose it was a part of the boy's
duty to see to this, but there was really so little
to expect in the way of attention in a craft of
this kind that I was grateful for the most trifling
illustration of our being looked after. I stepped
into my cabin for a cheroot, not choosing to turn
my back on so fair a night yet a while. Slightly
as the brig swayed, the bulkheads and strong
fastenings creaked as though a score of rats
were worrying one another, and I guessed,

G 2

unless I should turn In thoroughly sleepy,
these bothersome noises promised to keep me
awake all night. Cigar In mouth I walked the
deck for some time, finding a constant pleasure
in the moonlit scene, and greatly enjoying the
delicious hush that rested upon the vessel and
the ocean. After all, thought I, this is a voyage
to do me a great deal of good. It Is a complete
change ; there is no cold weather to be dreaded,
no Cape Horn, no Southern Ocean In June.
There should be some fun to be got out of old
Breakwater, though I do not like him. And
then I fell to thinking of Miss Aurelia. There
had been so much moonlight mixed up in our
oceanic Intercourse so far, that it seemed to meas
If I should never be able to cast my eyes
upon the planet without thinking of hers Well,
no woman could desire a lovelier fancy and
habit of association In a man's mind. My
humour took a poetic turn ; Byron's line — '' She
walks In beauty like the night," came Into my
head, along with Shelley's fine thought —
Moonlight and music and feeling are one."
Here Is plenty of moonlight, thought I, but
even if I should call Miss Aurelia the music,

where is the feeling ? But what wonderful
eyes she has ! I mused : what spirit, power, life,
intelligence ! She talks very finely too, by
George ! Fraser is her dear boy, and deserves
to be so, I don't doubt ; but the shape of his
head must have vastly changed since he was
my shipmate at sea, if he Is able to understand
one half of the fancies which take her.

Presently feeling somewhat lonesome, I
crossed the deck to where the boatswain was
quietly pacing.

''A fine night," said I.

*' It is, sir, — lovely Indeed," he replied, coming
to a stand and touching his cap very civilly.

'' You are the second mate, I believe ? "

'' Second mate and bo'sun, sir."

Pray do not stand, I will walk with you."

We started to pace the length of the quarterdeck
together. I particularly observed in him
a very respectful, quiet manner, the sort of
sailor-like civility one wanted to hear of in such
a ship as the /7^ou Crown. The moonshine
gushed so clearly that my companion's face
could not have been more visible had I viewed
it by daylight. He was a hearty-looking man

of about five-and-forty, clean shaven save in a
streak of iron-grey whisker ; a real splice in
aspect down to such minutiae as the hang of his
arms and the curl of his fingers as he walked.

'ris this your first voyage with Captain
Breakwater, Mr. ?"

Gordon's my name, sir — Zana Gordon.
Yes, this is my first voyage with Captain
Breakwater."

I suppose he is reckoned a pretty smart
seaman ? "

I don't know I'm sure, sir."

The crew at least strike me as a lively lot.
They tumble about very briskly, a good sign in
men newly shipped. But of course most of
them will run when the brig arrives at Rio.
Jack has his peculiarities as have other
folks."

"He has a right to be peculiar, sir. His
life's a good deal out of the common ; little
understood, too, save by them who have to eat
and drink and jump aloft with him. And it
isn't enough that he's expected to work for
twenty-four hours in the day, and that he's got
to eat victuals which no man ashore who values

his dog would give it, unless it went mad and
had to be choked ; and that his labour's of a
sort ne'er a landsman would undertake, no, not
if instead of signing for three pounds a month
he agreed for a hundred. That isn't enough, I
say. It's what lies behind, sometimes deep,
and nearly always out of sight, that's the worst
part of all that's bad in the seafaring calling."

You mean bullying, brutal treatment,
injurious language ? " He was silent. '' I
should understand you," said I. '' In coming
aboard this morning I found a bigger hint than
would have sufficed me in the faces of the
boat's crew. I was a sailor myself for three
years, and one doesn't want to serve longer
than that to make plain words of the looks of
seamen."

He still held his peace, but he had said
enough to let me know his silence was mere
wariness. When we got on to other topics he
was as talkative as I could desire. I found he
had been able seaman aboard the Indiaman I
had first gone to sea in, though he had left her
before I joined. She had been commanded in
his time by the same man who had her when I

was a midshipman ; so here was a topic that was
enough to at once establish a sort of bond
between us.

Whilst we were pacing the deck the man on
the look-out forward hailed my companion — ashe
seemed to think. Neither of us caught
what he said, and Gordon hallooed back. The
Than sang out again, but without making himself
heard ; on which the boatswain went
forward to see what was wanted. He left me
standing near the wheel. There yet remained
half of my cheroot to smoke out. Six bells —
eleven o'clock — had been struck some ten minutes
before ; but the loveliness of the night still
detained me, and I was in no mood yet to
exchange the warm sweetness of the ocean
night-breeze for the atmosphere of my cabin.
On a sudden the man who was steering started
violently, let go the wheel, and ran to the
vessel's side, where he hung in a strained
listening posture, with one hand to his ear. I
hastily crossed the deck, wondering what on
earth he could have heard to cause him to start
so wildly, and above all to desert his post at the
helm as though he had gone out of his mind.

The moonshine streamed full upon him, and the
complexion of that light, combined with his
extreme pallor, made the face he slowly turned
upon me ghastlier than any dead man's for the
very life that worked with a sort of grin in it.

'' Did you hear him ? " he inquired in the
low tremulous voice of a man newly recovered
from a faint.

'hear whom?" I answered, staring my
hardest into the distance, misty with the
radiance.

Something away yonder called me ! " said
he, still speaking in the same voice, weak with
terror and astonishment.

*you!" I exclaimed; 'called you! But
there's nothing there, man — nothing in sight,
anyway. What should there be then for a
human voice to sound from ? "

Hark ! There again ! " he cried, with
another violent start as though he had been
electrified. I had heard nothing.

What is your name ? " I asked.

"Jesse Cooper, sir," he responded, trembling
pitifully.

I had begun to think that the fellow was ill,

or that he had suddenly gone wrong In his
head, when he Hated his hand as if to motion
silence, and then I certainly did seem to hear a
faint sound coming from God knows where, that
might have passed for a feeble human cry,
though it syllabled nothing that was intelligible
to my ears. No doubt it was no more than the
sheer imagination in me wrought on by some
delicate murmur of wind aloft, or by the stir
of one rope lying in the chafe of another, or by
the jerk of a sheet to the gentle strain of the
sail, or the creak of parrel or truss. But for the
moment I was hardly less startled than the man
himself.

"Very extraordinary!" I said.

You heard it, sir ? " he cried, looking
wildly at me.

I certainly heard something confoundedly
like a human voice hailing," I answered,
peering with all my eyes at the sea, as
though I must certainly see something there
If I stared long enough.

O my God ! O my God ! " he groaned.
*you heard it too, sir! It's no fancy then.
I'm called, and must go. It was father's

voice. He was drowned at sea, and three
years afterwards called my brother, who fell
from aloft and was killed the same night.
And now he's called me I "

I saw how it was, and felt very sorry that
I should have owned I heard the sound, for
I was now persuaded it was pure fancy on my
part, that is to say, pure fancy in taking the
noise I had heard to be a human voice :
though by my owning I had caught the note,
be it what it would, I was like to drive the
poor superstitious creature clean out of his
mind.

'' The brig will be aback in another
minute," said I. " Catch hold of the wheel,
man. There's nothing in all this — nothing
but nerves. Dead men can't call out — you
ought to know that! If they could there'd
be nothing but voices hailing the world day
and night."

He grasped the wheel without answering
mee, and brought the brig to her course.
Just then the boatswain came aft.

Nothing wrong forward, I hope ! " said I.

'' Xo, sir. The look-out called to a mate

for a chew of tobacco, and thought, when I
answered, that I was the man he had sung
out to."

"Glad it's no worse," said I. "We've had
a bit of a scare aft here, — all happening ina
minute — too odd of its kind to require improving
by anything of the same sort forward,'
and then I told him what had happened.

We stood in the shadow cast by the main-rigging
as we conversed. He cast a glance
in the direction of the wheel, and said, in a
voice made up of pity and contempt :

There's always sailors knocking about
with notions of that kind. I've seen a man
plump down upon his knees and pray in a
loud voice all because he caught sight of a
complaisant a-burning at the yard-arm. That
there Cooper struck me, on first setting eyes
on him, as having a queerish look in his face, j
If there was more learning in forecastle
there'd be a deal less of these here fanciful
gallivantins. Fancy a chap supposing that
his father, who was drownded t'other side o'
Cape Horn, could hail him after all these
years out o' the English Channel ! "

Yet wiser men than this same Cooper,
Mr. Gordon, hold and stoutly cling to stranger
beliefs than the midnight halloing of drowned
men"' said I, hammering at a flint for a
light for my fragment of cigar. ''If any
mortal behoof has a right to believe in
ghosts, it should be the sailor. Look aloft,
j\Ir. Gordon!" — he turned up his weatherbeaten
face — " i\Iark how spectrally those
sails show out to the moonlight. What, to
a fanciful eye, should the flitting of the
shadows up there to the swaying of the
masts signify but the pinions of spirits hovering
over those glimmering heights ? and what,
to the imaginative ear, should the muttering
of the breeze in the shrouds mean but the dark
and secret whispered conversation of beings
as little like you or me, Mr. Gordon, as the
moon is like the sun ? Again, look over the
side — it is all wide, white silence : mere sea
and moonshine to you and me, but to the
lonely distempered vision the fittest canvas
the wide world over for the magic lantern ot
the mind to cast its imaginations on."

He tilted the peak of his cap on to his

MAROONED. chap.

nose as he scratched the back of his head,
and said : '' Well, if a man's weak enough
to believe in ghosts, I don't doubt he'd get
more ideas about them out of such a night
as this upon the ocean than maybe he'd
collect out of the most crowded of graveyards
ashore. But supposing such things as
spirits to be, who's going to make me believe
they hasn't got too much sense to choose the
sea to knock about in ? A spectre's right
enough in an old country house and the
likes of them places ashore ; for he's not
only got a roof over his head and a fire to
warm himself at when the weather draws
up cold, but the pick of the best room to
lay in, and a larder to help himself from —
if so be a spirit ever gets hungry. But
what does a ghost do at sea ? If he's a land
ghost he'll stop ashore ; and is it imaginable,
d'ye think, sir, that if he's the ghost of a
sailor he'd return, without being forced, to
the life he was bound to hate when he was
flesh and blood, and keep company, of his
own accord, with such people as skippers
and mates, and endure again the cold and

wet that 'ud send him from the deck or from
aloft streaming Hke a soaked rag to his thin
blanket and leakinor bunk .'^ " He shook his

CD

head in a way that showed him fully convinced
by his own reasoning.

Isn't that a sail out yonder?" I exclaimed,
at that instant catching sight of some tiny
object gleaming like a faint dash of light on
the sea-line, and doubting for a moment
whether it was a star or a ship's canvas or
the play of white water.

He looked, and said, "Yes, sir; a yacht,
I allow, by the sheen of her sails."

It was as though a paring of pearl reflected
the moonlight, so exceedingly dainty and
delicate was the lustre of the fabric against
the dark obscure of the horizon. I noticed
however, whilst I kept my eye fastened upon
it, that it moved with a velocity quite meteoric
in its way, for when I had first descried it,
it showed out a hands-breadth forward of
the foremost main shroud, whilst before I
could have counted ten it had sliced midway
to the foregoing.

I glanced aft. 'why, Mr. Gordon," I

said, "the wheel's deserted; the brig's coming
round ! "

He sprang to the helm, and ground at
the spokes till the tiller-chains rattled again,
meanwhile looking right and left.

'where's Cooper, sir?" he cried; "he
hasn't gone forward. I'll swear he never
passed us ; he wouldn't quit the helm unless
he was mad ! "

There was a grating abaft the wheel ; I
sprang on to it and strained my sight at the
wake astern. The moon was westering and
looking over our foretop sail yard-arm, and
her light was very clear and broad. I could
see nothing. The wake went away slowly
in small black holes and little seething clouds,
with here and there a faint flash of green
light, as though a strange fish with a green
eye floated up to the surface to take a view
of us now and again.

"He is overboard — drownded himself ! "
cried the boatswain. " Man overboard ! " he
roared. "Lay aft the watch! lively, or ye'll
be too late ! " and he fell to grinding at the
wheel again to steady it.

The brig came round slowly. His cry was
electrical in its effect. I had seen nothing
stirring save the man on the look-out, and
now in an instant the planks re-echoed the
thumping and slapping of the booted or
naked feet of the watch tumbling aft as if
for their lives. They were busy with the
boat, clearing away the falls and casting off
the gripes, when up came old Breakwater.

*' What's the matter? what's the matter?"
he bawled.

Man overboard, sir ! " shouted the boatswain.


Where is he ? where is he ? Anybody
see him ? " roared the skipper, springing with
his oval shanks on to the grating alongside
me.

I have been looking, but can make out no
signs of him," I answered.

"How long has he been overboard?" he
shouted.

Three or four minutes, I expect," answered
the boatswain.

"How did he git there?" he bellowed;
"was he knocked overboard ?"

VOL. I. H

"Good God!" I cried, wild to think of
the precious time the old fool was losing by
these questions, "there's a man overboard,
captain, and he must drown if you don't instantly
seek him, if indeed he's still afloat."

Keep all fast with the boat," he vociferated ;
"if he's only been overboard three or four
minutes he ought to be visible if he's on the
surface, and since he ain't it's a proof he's under."

It's murder ! " said an angry voice amongst
the men standing near the davits.

Just then the mate sprang through the
companion.

Who was it said it's murder ? " shouted
Breakwater, half suffocated with passion. "Mr.
Bothwell, find out the man ! find out the man !
I must know who it is ! "

Captain Breakwater," I exclaimed, " the
poor fellow has only been overboard a few j
minutes, and you really — "

Mind your own blasted business, sir," he
shouted in such a raging way that I have no
pen to portray it with. " Find me the man
who said it's murder, Mr. Bothwell ! Find me
that man, sir ! "

Disgusted by the old fellow's insolence and
temper, and sickened by his indifference to
human life, I walked a little way forward clear
of the men, and stood leaning against the rail
with my arms folded waiting for what was next
to happen. The mate thrust in lithe as steel
amongst the sailors, flashing his eyes first into
one then into another face, whilst with shrill'
imperious tones which came back in echoes
from the hollows of the canvas he demanded
to know who had spoken the words. Broad-water,
dismounting from the o-ratino^, danced
in a very delirium of wrath in and out among
the seamen, looking for all the world in the
transfiguring light of the moon like a gigantic
crab masquerading in man's attire, whilst he
whipped out at the top of his pipes with all sorts
of menaces, threatening I know not what unless
the man who had said it was murder was named
or confessed himself. The excitement grew,
the hubbub increased. Oaths were so plentiful,
I could only earnestly hope that if Miss Grant
were not asleep she was out of hearing. I
feared it would come to a fight, and expected
every moment to witness the Q-leam of a knife

H 2

flourished In the air. The men, however, would
not tell who it was that had spoken the words.
Some blows were exchanged, and presently the
sailors came staggering my way, driven and
beaten along by Breakwater and his mate.

Forward with ye ! Forward with ye ! "
roared the old fellow, flourishing his arms like a
windmill, whilst the mate shoved and pushed
as a drover would thrust a congregation of
irresolute or defiant calves. It would have
struck a landsman as incredible that the men
should have suffered themselves to be thus
driven. They were six to two, yet they offered
no resistance. But the habit of discipline is
strong in the sailor, and the quarter-deck Is
sacred ground. In no man who has command
of his fellow-beings is there vested such despotic
powers as in the master of a ship. The
spirit of mutiny will skulk long ere it dare
show its face. There is no doubt the men
would have gone forward quietly enough ; but
Breakwater's and his mate's blood was up, and
the wild and wretched business did not end
until the men had been driven forward of the
mainmast. Blowing and gasping, though still

flourishing his hands, Breakwater came to a
stand, his face so crimsoned by his exertions
that he looked Hke a mulatto In the moonlight.

'* Now see here," he said, sputtering out the
words In wheezy accents, for he was too exhausted
to roar, ''ontll the name of the man
who spoke them words is given to me, you're
on bread and water ! Mind that ! One of you
it was, and I must know who ; and If bread and
water don't serve, I'll stop 'em both, I'll stop
'em both ! Hunger '11 make a mad beast rational.
So now you know what ye're got to expect."

With this he walked aft, followed by his
mate. By this time I had had enough of the
deck, and was sick, grieved, and deeply worried.
Breakwater's insulting expression stuck in my
gorge, and I made up my mind to have a short
conversation with him next morning on the
subject. It was depressing beyond words, too,
to think that the unhappy man, who beyond
question had dropped silently overboard whilst
the boatswain and I conversed forwards, may
have perished for the want of a boat nimbly
sent to seek him. One of the crew had called
it murder, and that would be the universal

feeling of the forecastle I was sure. Breakwater
was marching to and fro near the wheel, with a
lurch in his gait that satisfied me he must have
gone to bed pretty well primed. He was talking
vehemently to the boatswain, who still held the
wheel. The mate overhung the rail, gazing
astern. I went below unnoticed by them, and
had opened the door of my cabin when I heard
my name called. I turned and saw Miss Grant
standing in her doorway robed in a pink .
Her dark eyes flashed back the
light of the lamp in my berth, and with them
and her pale face and coronal of fair hair and
commanding posture she would, attired as she
was, have nobly filled the canvas of a painter as
the Muse of Tragedy.

'' What was the cause of that great commotion
on deck just now ? " she inquired, without the
least exhibition of alarm or nervousness.

'' I had hoped that you would have been
peacefully sleeping. Miss Grant. A fellow who
was at the wheel fell crazy, and quietly slipped
himself overboard. He was missed, and the
alarm given. Hence the hurried tread overhead
which disturbed you."

** Was he saved ? "

"No. Breakwater arrived rather the worse
for Hquor, lost his temper, and prohibited the
men from lowering the boat. It is all very sad,
and I would rather it had happened on the last
instead of the first night of our voyage. But I
have told you the worst. And do you know,
Miss Grant, that it is past midnight ? "

She saw that I did not want to prolong my
talk just then. Indeed I was secretly much excited,
much perturbed, vexed, and pained, and
feared that my speech would betray my anxiety
and worry her. She listened a little, and exclaimed,
" Everything seems quiet now : is it
still a fine night ? "

"As lovely as when you left it," I answered.

She inclined her head and closed her door,
and without further ado I tumbled into my bunk,
though not to sleep for a long while.

BOTHWELL, CHIEF MATE.

I WAS awakened early by the scrubbing-brushes
of the men overhead washing down the
decks. The movement of the Httle ship was
tolerably lively, insomuch that on quitting my
bunk I had some difficulty for a few minutes in
keeping my legs, nor was it hard to tell, by the
dim humming noise that seemed to tremble
through the fabric like the vibration in a harp-string
after it has been twanged, that it was
blowing a fresh breeze of wind. I was soon
dressed, and on gaining the deck found the brig
storming along with her royal furled and her
trysail-boom well on the quarter. A high sea
chased us, and but for the wind being abaft the
beam we must have found no little spite in the
weight of the sudden gusts and brisk squalls

which distended our canvas until the sheets
groaned again to the strain. The heavens were
covered with large white clouds, which rolled
along very stately and solemnly, with a brownish
scud speeding under them like smoke ; but
there were everywhere great breaks of clear
blue sky of the true summer tint of the English
Channel. The sea was as grand as one could
wish it with flying shadow and leaping dazzle —
blue ridges with a mile-long head of foam, bits
of rainbow in the showering of spray, weltering
spaces of violet gloom cast by the clouds and
the swift glory that chased them. The brig
was buzzing through it as if, to use the sailor's
phrase, she had the scent at last. She rose to
the head of a sea in a boiling smother, then
sank all very solemnly with a leeward heel that
seemed to bring the top-gallant rail within
arm's-reach of the hissing yeast that went wildly
swirling past, and out of which the rush of wind
from under the foot of the mainsail would tear
up bucketfuls of blobs and flakes, and send them
scattering with a scream through the air with
something of the pearly glint of the flying-fish
in their flight.

My friend, INIr. Zana Gordon, had once
again charge of the deck. Bucket In hand,
with trousers turned above the knee, he
swirled the sparkling green water that was
handed to him aloof the deck, whilst the men
scrubbed with their brushes. Recollecting that
these were the fellows who were to be disciplined
by a diet of bread and water into telling the
captain which of them it was who had used the
words that had enraged him, I ran my eye from
one to another of them with a little attention,
but observed nothing particular, unless It were
a sort of sullenness in their deliberate manner
of handling their scrubbing-brushes, which
after all might have been a mere imagination on
my part.

It was a lively enough scene in Its way, and
brought back old memories to me. The smoke
of the newly-lighted galley-fire blew swiftly and
merrily from the chimney of the caboose Into
the sea, and you noticed the farm-yard noise
about of the crowing of cocks and the grunting
of pigs. There was but one vessel in sight, a
large topsail schooner heading to cross under
our stern for a course to some French port.

The sea took her fair abeam, and she rolled so
heavily that she looked like a great fan violently
swayed by some Titanic hand hidden beneath
the surface of the water. Well, it was just the
sort of weather I had told Miss Grant yesterday
that wee needed. A short spell of it would
drive us clear of soundings, and I knew It would
make one feel as though the voyage was to
have an end when one should find the course set
fair by the binnacle compass for South America.
The boatswain saluted me with a flourish of a
tarry thumb to his forehead, but he was too full
of business to talk. After I had been on deck
for about a quarter of an hour, by which time
the scrubbing was over, and the seamen were
smacking the planks with a swab or two, Broad-water
came up through the companion-hatch,
where he stood a while holding on, and blinking
around him as though not yet wide awake.
Then going to the wheel he brought his eyes ina
squint upon the compass, and after a survey
of the fabric aloft, and a slow gaze round the
sea, he called out to me, " Good morning, sir.
Tow rope's in hand at last, I allow. No hint
of hedging in this here movement."

I inclined my head coldly and distantly to him,
and then suspecting that any kind of sub-acid
or chilly posture would be entirely lost upon
such an intelligence as his, I resolved to deal
with him in a way that should at least be
intelligible.

I wish to speak a word with you, Captain
Breakwater," I called out.

He looked at me a moment as though he
feared his dignity and importance would suffer
by having to go to me, and then after a half
glance at the fellow at the wheel with a slow
pulling down of his nose with his fore-finger and
thumb, a trick that seemed to help him to arrive
at a conclusion, he came to where I stood, but
very leisurely, appearing the while to think
of nothing but the appearance of the deck and
the movements of the men swabbing.

'well, Mr. Musgrave," he exclaimed, 'what
is it, sir ? Slept pretty comfortable, I hope ?
Nothing the lady can find to complain about
trust ? "

"Sir," said I, "you were extremely rude and
offensive to me last night. You are captain of
this ship, and I am a passenger who has paid

for certain rights — civility from you amongst
the rest — which I intend to claim ; and if you
do not concede me every tittle of what I have
parted with my money to obtain. I will make it
so hot for you on my return to England that
you shall wish yourself hanged ere you ever set
eyes on me. And now, sir," I continued, with
the sternest face I could contrive to put on,
though my gravity was not a little staggered
by the ludicrous expression of bewilderment
that overspread his singular countenance, " I
insist upon your apologizing to me at once,
Captain Guy Breakwater, for the insolent
manner in which you addressed me last
night."

He cast his little eyes from the deck to the
sky and back again, frowned, scratched his head,
and by other signs seemed to wish me to suppose
that he was in an agony of thought. Then,
with an inimitable air of being all abroad, he
pointed with his forefinger to his waistcoat, and
said, '' Me ! me insult you ! You're a-dreaming,
Mr. Musgrave."

''No dream at all, sir," said I ; "you were
confoundedly insolent to me, and ruder even in

your manner than In your speech, and I demand
an apology."

Again he looked up at the sky and down at
the deck, as though the effort to recollect what
had passed caused him acute suffering.

** What did I say ? " he suddenly asked.

I told him.

'well, Mr. Musgrave," said he, "you're a
gentleman, and I should be sorry for to swear
that I never spoke them words, seeing that you
tell me I did. But I can assure you, sir, on my
honour as master of this here Iron Crown, that
I have no recollection of using the term you
mention. If I did, why then I 'apologize, and
no man can do more."

On hearing this I bowed coldly and walked
aft, congratulating myself upon my resolution,
for I believed I had made him understand he
would have to be very cautious henceforth in
his dealings with me, and I had also got to see
that the man, like all other bullies, was very
white-livered at bottom. There was Indeed
danger that a person of this nature would extend
something of the treatment he exhibited to
his crew to Miss Grant and me ; and unless I

asserted myself promptly it might end, through
a natural aversion on my part from any kind of
worry or annoyance, to my insensibly submitting
to his rough usage, which of course he would
accentuate in proportion as I yielded, until my
life on board might become as uneasy as if I
had been one of the crew. This is a feature of
a voyage absolutely impossible in these days,
but in my time it was a condition (in small passenger
vessels, of course) as familiar as the
coarseness of the food and the gloom and
discomforts of the cabin.

I kept my back on the quarter-deck for a
little, whilst I stood watching the sparkling race
of froth hurling from under the shadow of our
counter to the creamy summit of the green surge
chasing us, during which I could hear the old
fellow calling to the seamen in such a tone as
few men would think ht to adopt towards a dog.
If it was convenient to him to forget his insulting
manner to me, it was plain that whatever
else he chose to remember was very present to
his mind. For how long a period the men who
formed the starboard watch would consent to
the discipline of bread and water it was hard to

conjecture ; though indeed the sailor of that
period could scarcely suffer a very severe
hardship in the deprivation of lumps of meat
out of which, whether raw or cooked, the
mariner beguiled the tedium of the voyage by
manufacturing snuff-boxes for his grandfather,
work-boxes for his sweetheart, and tobacco-boxes
for himself.

Miss Grant did not leave her cabin till breakfast
was upon the table. Breakwater, who was
seated when she arrived, got up and distorted
his figure with a bow, whilst he asked her, with
much such a pleasant face as he wore when I
first made his acquaintance, what sort of a night
she had passed, and if the brig's qualification
troubled her much. This stroke of politeness
was meant as much for me as for her. After
the exchange of a few common-places about the
weather and so forth. Miss Grant said to the
captain, '' Were they not able to save the poor
fellow who fell overboard last nio^ht ? "

No, mum," he answered, with a half look
from me to a lump of sausage which he held
aloft on a fork ; " the long and short of it's this.
The man was in the water some minutes afore

the alarm was given. The surface lay clear
under the moon, and had he been showing
there was enough of us looking for some one
to see him. He meant to drown himself, and
he did it."

'* But apart from the chance," said I, "of
rescuing him as a mere matter of humanity,
would not his loss, by weakening your working
strength, make you anxious to be sure that he
was not to be recovered ? "

'' There was no signs of him, sir," he answered
doggedly. " I don't want to lose no men if I
can help it ; but if a chap chooses to slip overboard
so quietly that no one hears him touch
the water, what's to be done ? "

But you didn't know when you first came on
deck that he //c?<:/ drowned himself," said I.

No," he answered, " but didn't I act as if I
did ? which means that Fm one of those men
who don't need to know a thing to understand it."

I turned to ]\Iiss Grant, and related the
strange story of the preceding night, whilst
Breakwater worked away at his breakfast with
both hands, and masticated with such energy as
to apparently hold him deaf.

VOL. L I

'' Strange," she exclaimed, '' that you should
have thought you heard the voice that called
him. Of course it was fancy, but it is dreadful
to think how even a little imagination may
overpower the reason."

There was everything to help the imagination,"
said I : '' the silence upon the vessel and
upon the ocean — the wild, straining look in the
man's eyes with the sparkle of moonlight in
them as he turned them upon me, full, as I can
now see, with the anguish of madness — and then
the misty silvery distance towards which he
bent his ear with his hand to it. I believe had
he told me there was a phantom out there, and
pointed to it, I should have seen something, if
not the apparition he himself beheld."

Presently, after a prodigious meal, Breakwater
arose and left the cabin.

Why did not he attempt to save the man ? "
Miss Grant said.

'' I believe the fellow when he first came on
deck was still muddled with the fumes of the
liquor he had swallowed, and barely understood
what had happened or knew what he was
about." And then I told her how he had in

suited me, and how a lite while before I had
obliged him to apologize. My mere telling her
this thing touched the spirit In her. The look
of her as she listened to me made you feel that
here was a woman to fill any man who should
vex her with the feelings of a dog. Before we
quitted the table, the mate arrived to get his
breakfast. He bowed to us quietly as before,
seated himself without speaking, and fell to
his meal with great soberness and civility of
demeanour. It seemed hard to reconcile his
subdued bearing, which seemed by Its air to be
habitual to him, with his fierce and passionate
treatment of the men, and particularly his desperate
and raging behaviour of the previous
night. Now that the captain was away I hoped
to be able to draw him into conversation, and
began by saying that If this breeze lasted we
might look for a run of two hundred and fifty
knots in the twenty-four hours.

Quite that, sir," he answered.

That was a sorry business last night, Mr.
Bothwell. If the men forward are superstitious,
they will not like it."

*' They won't like their company being weak

2

end you mean, sir ? " lifting his gaze from his
plate and eying me steadily for a moment.

I thought to myself, as I glanced at his woolly
head, his handsome features and dark eyes, which
when they fell from my face rolled In a hundred
nimble glances, fastening upon nothing, and yet
seeing everything as you would say, " Lord,
what a corsair this rogue would make in the
hands of a Byron or a Michael Scott ! "

No," said I ; "I mean they won't like
Captain Death boarding their craft almost before
the anchor they have broken out has dried
at the bathed."

His swift glance darted from me to Miss
Grant, and then with a smile that exhibited a
set of fine, even white teeth, the whiter for his
dark moustache, he said. In an almost effeminate
way, '' Oh, sir, we must not trouble ourselves
about what the sailors forward think."

'why not?" asked Miss Grant quickly.
*' Are they not men like you and Captain
Breakwater ? You would be unable to sail this
ship without them. A master on land dare not
treat his men-servants as captains at sea treat
their crews."

He answered softly, " No, madam, because no
doubt men-servants would give notice and seek
another situation."

Do you believe it, sir ? " she exclaimed,
flushing and gazing at him irefully ; '' Indeed

you would find they would not rest there "

She checked herself, and added laughingly, and
looking at me, " I have not a very high opinion,
Mr. Musgrave, of the spirit and courage of
lackeys and footmen, but I truly believe that if
they were treated by their masters as sailors are
by their commanders there would be a great
many mysterious disappearances happening
amongst the nobility and gentry."

'' I am always glad, madam," said the mate,
showing his teeth again, *'to hear the ladies
championing poor Jack. He has very few
friends, very few friends."

He shook his head without any suggestion
of sarcasm about him, and the gesture seemed
to me to make his eyes shine as if they had been
formed of some black liquid with a gleam upon
it that danced to the rippling of their movement.

"How long have you been at sea .'^ " I asked
bluntly.

*' Ten years, sir."

*' Humph ! " I exclaimed, " a good deal of
hard weather and knocking about may be packed
into ten years. Apparently you are of Captain
Breakwater's mind, that the sailor moves forward
the better for being kicked."

He made no answer.

I have heard," said I, addressing Miss
Grant, '' of captains whose hatred of the sailors
serving under them was really phenomenal.
I remember being told of the commander of a
ship that he could never bring himself to offer
one of his seamen anything with his hand, but
that he would put it down upon the deck and
kick it at him. By the way," I continued,
turning upon the mate again, '' that'll be the
upshot of this trouble with the starboard
watch ? The men are not likely to peach upon
their messmate, and if the man who used the
words won't confess himself, what's to follow ?
The fellows will not surely put up for a whole
voyage with nothing to eat and drink but ship's
bread — bad enough, I dare say — and a draught
from the scuttle-butt ? "

Before he could reply, Miss Grant said

quickly, *' To what do you refer, Mr. Mus-grave
? "

"Why," I answered, 'last night on the
captain refusing to send a boat on the chance of
picking up the man who had gone overboard,
one of the group of fellows who were at the
davits exclaimed, ' It's murder ! ' and the whole
of the watch are not to be allowed any other
provisions but biscuit until the man who used
the words is discovered."

''He is discovered," said the mate almost
blandly.

Oh, indeed ! " I exclaimed, " how, pray ? "

"He came to me about twenty minutes ago,
and said that as he did not choose his messmates
should suffer for what he had done, he
would own he was the man who cried out, ' It's
murder ! ' "

He should be pardoned for his honesty,"
exclaimed Miss Grant. " I hope the captain
will let the matter rest. I will ask him to
forgive the poor fellow."

The mate softly wiped his moustache, rose,
bowed, and went on deck.

One should say," said I, "that there are the-seeds

of a startling romance in that chap ; but I
fear that it is nothing but the vilest sea-going
commonplace made a little odd by good looks
and Hottentot wool."

'' I agree with you," she answered ; "he is
even more colourless than his captain ; yet
prosaic as they both are, they are equal to
creating a very great deal of trouble ; and do
you know, Mr. Musgrave," she said, suddenly
and even vehemently, " I am extremely sorry
that we ever took berths in this ship."

'' Oh, but it is a little early to be anxious,"
said I cheerfully. *' I quite know what is in
your mind : you fear that the behaviour of
Breakwater and his mate may lead to the crew
giving trouble. Well, the same misgiving is
my reason for speaking out so plainly to both
men. If they are made to understand that I
am watching them and observing: their conduct,
they may have sense enough to restrain themselves
for the reason that I should be at hand
as a witness to testify to their inhumanity, and
to justify any act of insubordination that the
sailors might be driven to."

She was silent for a little, and then

said, 'whereabouts is the ship now, Mr.
Musgrave ? "

I suppose we are hardly abreast of the Isle
of Wight yet," I answered.

She reflected again, and then clasping her
hands and bringing them to her lips, and
looking at me with a sort of wistfulness, though
she spoke with hesitation, she said, " I almost —
I almost wish that the captain would put us
ashore."

This was a desire to puzzle me considerably.
I answered, '' Of course, Miss Grant, if you are
reluctant to proceed I will unhesitatingly ask
the captain to put us ashore ; but I should not
like him to refuse, and unhappily there Is no
doubt that he will refuse, because of course he
would conclude that we should return to London
and lodge a complaint against him, and so lose
him his berth. Now, if he should decline to
put us ashore my position would be an awkward
one. He need do nothing but keep the
ship heading steadily on her course, and weare
helpless."

She interrupted me : " And the passage
money would be forfeited. No, I am silly to

wish such a thing. I was all eagerness and
impatience yesterday. It is just a little passing
misgiving." I was about to speak. " No,"
she exclaimed with energy, '' we are here and
will remain here."

'' Be it so," said I, not a little relieved, for I
foresaw a very great deal more of trouble than
1 had the least disposition to undergo, even to
oblige /ler, had she insisted on my asking old
Breakwater to haul his brig in to the land,
and set us and our baggage once more on
terra fir ma.

THE half-blood's PUNISHMENT.

Miss Grant went to her cabin and I on
deck, where I observed Breakwater and the
mate marching the length of the quarter-deck
and busy in conversation. There was a middling
high sea running, which, had it been on
the bow instead of on the quarter, would have
rendered the motion of the brig extremely
uncomfortable. As it was, it swung the vessel
with an almost rhythmic steadiness as it under-ran
her. It was first a long upward heave to
the foaming liquid brow, then a gradual lean
over to the full weight of the wind till the lee-channels
roared in the smother of spume over
the side, and then a steady slide down into the
speckled, froth-laced trough, with a recovery
of the hull that started us with a level keel for

the next buoyant climb. Not above a cannon-shot
to windward was a large frigate, close-hauled
under double-reefed topsails and reefed
foresail. She showed no colours, but to a nautical
eye a single glance sufficed to prove her
English. She was plunging heavily, and would
lift her head out of the boiling white about her
bows until eight or ten feet of the keel at her
forefoot showed clear, with a dull yellow
glancing from the metal sheathing that looked
like a mirroring of pale light on the wet, black,
gleaming sides of the beautifully moulded hull.
As she rolled she gave us a view of a portion
of her weather-deck, with a hint of black
artillery in certain covered, muzzled shapes,
crouching under the defences of her bulwarks
crowned with the white line of hammocks.
The movement of a spot of red here and there
marked the mechanical pacing of a marine. I
never remember a nobler sea-show than was
offered by this fine frigate, with her broad
white line broken by the closed gun-ports, the
superb set of her reefed canvas, the airy grace
of her rigging ruling the piebald hurrying sky
with dark lines of shrouds, thinning as they

soared, till they rose delicate as the fibres of a
spider's web to the glimmering button of the
truck at the royalist-head, whence streamed
the long pennon straight out upon the wind,
like a streak of light up there ; whilst over the
weather-bow there was the sharp and frequent
flash of a green sheet of water that broke into
smoke as it flew, or a sudden lifting above the
bulwark-rail of a column of froth, which the
blow of the bow would send arching back till
'twas a sheer huddle of dazzling yeast under
the radiant figurehead, that, with some hero's
wreath in its hand, plunged to the giddy whiteness
only to soar triumphant a moment after.

It was old Breakwater's duty to hoist and dip
the ensign to her. This is a civility I should
be very punctual in exacting if I were commander
of a British man-of-war. The skipper,
however, rolling along on his bow-legs by the
side of the mate, did not look as if he even
knew there was anything in sight. He never
threw so much as a glance in her direction,
though I could see some men at work on the
fore-rigging watching her with an admiration
that rendered them, for the time being,

insensible to the presence of the skipper and
his companion.

There was one of a dozen coils of rope hanging
over a belaying-pin swinging to the heave
of the hull. I went and sat myself in it, for the
shelter of the bulwark there from the gusty
blasts which were splitting upon the rigging full
of whistling and crying ; and there swayed,
cradle-like, by the hanging fakes, I leisurely
loaded my pipe, and fell to chipping, in the old-world
style of that age, at a flint for a light.
Whilst thus occupied, my eye was taken by the
figure of a man standing at the foot of the foremast.
I was thinking of other matters at that
moment, and yet I can recollect wondering, as
my gaze went from him after a brief glance,
that any man belonging to either watch should
have the courage to stand idle on deck whilst
the rest of the people were at work, when both
the captain and the chief mate were pacing
within eyeshot of him. Presently glancing his
way again, I noticed that he still remained in
the same posture, that is to say, with his back
against the mast and his face looking a little
forward of the fore-rigging, his arms folded

upon his breast, and his legs together with the
feet turned out, like a soldier in a sentry-box.
The mast was painted white, and hence it was,
I suppose, that I did not immediately observe
that the man was bound to it by turn upon turn
of rope, starting from his arm-pits and terminating
a little below his knees. I know not
what there was in the sight to startle me, but I
believe had a seaman fallen from aloft at my
feet, and there lay bleeding and broken, the
things would not have shocked me more than

o

the spectacle ol yonder sailor secured to the
mast as though he were some dangerous maniac,
and rendered motionless by the ligatures, saving
that he could use his head and had the freedom
of his arms.

I had not been long enough on board to be
able to distinguish the crew, but this man I
seemed to remember. To make sure, I got
out of the coil of rope and went a few paces
forward, and recognized in the fellow bound to
the mast the half-blood who had been one of the
boat's crew that rowed us aboard from Deal.
If his face had struck me then you will suppose
that it impressed me very strongly now.

Whether owing to the strangulation of the rope
about him, or to the thoughts in him, his complexion,
that I had observed to be of a clear
olive, had changed to an indescribably ugly
colour, which I can only speak of as an ashen
o-reen. It reminded me of the hue I once saw

o

in the face of a dead sailor whose cheeks had
been burnt to an almost chocolate tint by exposure
in an open boat in the Indian Ocean.
He turned his dark eyes upon me with a
savage glare in them of mutiny, malice, hatred,
and so full of defiance withal, that but for the
evil passions his countenance expressed you
might have accepted his air as one of bitter and
contemptuous pride. It was intolerable that he
should think I had inspected him out of mere
curiosity, which I saw from his manner he supposed
; and since he would be too wild in his
mind to interpret the sympathy which I am sure
must have been visible in me — for, as I say, the
sight of the poor bound fellow inexpressibly
shocked and grieved me — I turned my back on
him and walked right aft.

Breakwater left the mate and came up to me.

'that's true old North Country style, sir,"

he exclaimed, '' to sit in the bight of the rigging
over the pin under the lee of the bulwarks.
I've been hove to in the North Sea, and sat for
hours along with the rest of my mates, just as
you've been a-sitting, waiting for what was to
happen next."

'' It is hard to find a corner to smoke in,"
said I, "on board a flush-decked vessel. Where
there's a poop or a round-house, a man may
discover a nook clear of the gale, and manage to
keep the cinders in his bowl till the fire's all
gone. Did you ever serve aboard a Dutchman,
captain ? "

"No, by thunder!" he answered; "what's
put such a question as that into your head,
sir ?

"Why," I said, " I notice that you have got
one of your hands forward there seized to the
foremast. The Dutch used to serve their
rogues so — sometimes however going a little
further than you, for to make sure of the fellow
they'd pin him through the hand with a knife."

"You're keeping a bright-lookout aboard
this vessel, sir," he exclaimed, shooting an odd
look at me out of his little eyes.

VOL. I. K.

MAROONED. chap.

'* My good fellow," I cried, '' I should be
blind not to see such a sight as that. What
has he done ? Murdered a shipmate ?"

'' Almost wish he had," he growled, '' for that
'ud bring about the sort of treatment he wants.
He's the man who spoke them words last
night."

Ha ! " I exclaimed, " and for that you are
dosing him with a spell of fresh air that he may
go to his dinner with a good appetite ? "

He left me under pretence of looking into the
compass. I will not say that he was afraid of
me, but I am quite sure that if it had not been
for my talk with him in the morning, for the
manner I then put on, and which I still wore,
he would have dealt with me scarce less roughly
and insolently than had I been one of his seamen.
I knocked the ashes out of my pipe,
looking away towards the horizon, below which
and out of sight lay the line of the English coast,
and felt myself urged by a very strong impulse
to request him to head for the nearest port, and
to put Miss Grant and myself ashore, as his
behaviour to his men, though we were not yet
twenty-four hours from Deal, had rendered us

extremely uneasy, Insomuch that we were resolved
not to pursue the voyage in his ship.
But I was again checked by the considerations
which had occurred to me whilst talking on the
subject with Miss Grant. He might refuse to
comply, lose all control over himself in the
notion that my intention was to ruin him, and so
affront me that I should be at a loss how to act.
I quite perceived that, unless I could be sure
he would put us ashore, I should be acting unwisely
in asking him to do so, for, if he persisted
in sailing away with us, then whilst we
remained on board his ship we should have to
submit to any sort of usage he chose to give us.
I stamped my foot on the deck with vexation
and worry, and could have cursed the hour in
which I had ever set eyes on the Iron Crown.

I had hoped when Miss Grant came on deck
that the figure of the fellow bound to the mast
would escape her attention, and was scheming
to place her chair close against the wheel on the
port side where the man would be hidden from
her ; but the Instant she came out of the companion
and looked forward she started violently,
and exclaimed :

K 2

*' Why have they bound him ? What has he
done to deserve such a punishment as that ? "

'* He Is the man," I answered, " who cried
out last night, ' It's murder ! ' when the captain
ordered the boat to be kept fast."

'rand they have tied him to the mast merely
for uttering those words ? "

'' Ay ! It's a bitter burning shame ; the Indignity
of this sort of punishment Is the worst
part of It."

I shall ask Captain Breakwater to release
him," she exclaimed, with the Indignation In
her surging up hot to her face and flashing In
her eyes. '' I shall tell him that the sight pains
and disgusts me, and that he has no right to
oblige his passengers to witness such painful
and miserable spectacles."

Before I could check her she swept up to old
Breakwater, and towering over him with such
an air as SIddons would have worn in her
tragedy parts, her face flushed, her eyes on fire,
her head thrown backwards, she levelled her
white forefinger at the half-blood, gazing meanwhile
full Into the crimson expanse of the
skipper's countenance, and exclaimed, 'what

has that man done to merit the sufferings of
mind and body he must be enduring there ? "

The captain was a broad and muscular man,
but short ; and her erect, swelling, impassioned
figure made him look like a boy by her side ashe
stared up at her. Her sudden dramatic
accost took him completely by surprise. His
countenance wore a ludicrous expression of
bewilderment. He half turned towards the
mate, as if to invoke his assistance, and then
exclaimed in a hoarse stutter, *' Why, mum,
that there man — he's about the impudence son
of a swab — the long and short o't is, he as good
as called me a murderer last night. Had he
been a man-o'-war's man he'd have been spread-eagle
to the toon of twelve dozens for saying
much less than that ! "

I joined Miss Grant and offered her my arm ;
for though no woman ever stepped a heaving
deck more easily and gracefully than she, yet
the slope now was sometimes so sharp as even
to make Breakwater lurch, and I was afraid of
her carrying away, to use the sea term, as she
was quite forgetful, as I could see, in the temper
and mood that then possessed her, of the

tumbling of the platform on which she
stood.

The words," she exclaimed, " were no
doubt forced from the man by a sudden impulse.
Why did you hear them ? You would
not punish a man for thinking''

"Yes, I would, if I knew it," answered Broad-water,
plucking up a bit, and yet looking
uneasy too.

'you must release him, sir," she exclaimed ;
it is a sight that makes the whole ship painful
and distressing to me."

"You cannot refuse the lady's request,
captain," said I.

'but I can, though," he blustered; "why,
smother my precious eyes and bile every
blooming limb that I own ! who's capon of this
here craft ? Release him ! Certainly not. If
the sight's too painful to view, the lady needn't
look. An' what's there painful about it ^ Why,
some men would have chucked him into the
forehead, smothered him up down there in the
blackness, with notion but rats to keep him
company, 'stead of benevolently serving him as
I do by suffering him to stop up in the fresh air

for his shipmates to look at and meditate on.
Mr. Musgrave," he suddenly exclaimed, in a
bullying, angry voice, '' I'll thank you to tell
the lady that I'm the commander of this here
vessel, and of everything that contains her and
her navigation ; and I shall feel obliged, sir, by
your recollecting of that fact yourself, sir, for
it '11 spare ye the trouble of cross-examining my
chief-mate here, sir, as if you was a admiralty
judge. No, by thunder ! my name's Broad-water
— Guy Breakwater — and I'm master of
this vessel, and them there men forrard are my
crew, and I'll thank you and the lady not to
meddle with my contains, but to be satisfied so
long as I perform the part expected of me,
which is, to carry you and this here cargo to
Rio ! '* and feigning to be in a mighty temper he
bowled away to the taffrail, and then came back
again breathing hard and looking swiftly up
and around him, with a fine air of injury, resentment,
and righteous indignation, not ill-managed
on his part, though — like the ghost of
a squall — it was to be seen through.

There was no affectation in Miss Grant's pity
and disgust. She lingered a little while on

deck, and then went below to her cabin, declaring
that she could not bear to see the man
standing helpless and motionless, as if he were
dead, suffering grievously as she feared from
his posture, which rested the whole weight of
him upon his naked feet, and from the many
coils of rope which girt him so tartly and
plentifully to the spar, that the mere sight of
them made one draw one's breadth with difficulty
out of sheer sympathy with their suggestion
of strangulation. The men at work in the
rigging and about the decks did not give him
the least heed that I could discover. I noticed
one or two of them glance aft when Miss Grant
spoke to the captain and pointed forward, butin
a sulky, incurious way, as though what was
passing had no interest whatever for them.
This behaviour might have been due to the
presence of the mate, whose rapid glances
seemed to dart all over the brig in a breath, and
who, as I had already observed, never suffered
a man to halt for an instant in any job he was
upon. No doubt his almost preternatural quickness
in detecting the least hint of laziness or
languor was already as well known to the menas

if the vessel had been on the heh seas a
couple of months. Yet Miss Grant's speaking
to the captain about the pinioned half-blood
was in its way an incident so far removed from
all ordinary shipboard occurrences that the
sullen inattention of the men to it impressed
me greatly. If heavy troubles do not befall
this ship ere long, thought I, it will not
be because the spirit of mischief is even already
wanting amongst her crew ; and I sent a
gloomy glance seawards in the direction where
old England lay, feeling that I would not only
gladly forfeit the passage-money I had paid,
but ten times that amount over again, to
find myself and Miss Grant once more safe
and snug in London,

THE HALF-BLOOD IS RELEASED.

However, since we were to be locked up
with old Breakwater for a spell of weeks that
might run into months, our policy was to put
the best face we could upon our condition.
But Miss Grant was not to be induced to return
on deck whilst the man continued lashed
to the foremast. I pointed out that he was not
suffering as she fancied, that at all events he
had not yet been pinioned long enough to be in
pain, and I also begged her to remember that a
posture and exposure which might strike her
as a severe punishment would sit lightly upon a
sailor, whose vocation is supposed to harden
him into the most extraordinary capacity of
endurance. But it would not do. She refused
to quit the cabin until the man had been released,

and so she remained below the whole
day. Indeed I had some trouble to persuade
her to dine at the table with the captain,
though her good sense helped her in this at
last ; but throughout the meal she could
scarcely bear to glance at him, scarcely endure
to listen to him.

On his side he behaved as if he were willing
to let bygones be bygones, as if indeed after
careful consideration he was on the whole
willing to overlook the past. His dinner put
him into a good humour. It consisted amongst
other things of a large round of corned beef ;
and when the cabin-boy came staggering with
it into the cabin, old Breakwater seemed so
much impressed by the beauty of the joint that
he lay back upon the locker, with a carving
knife and fork sticking up out of his great fists,
which he rested upon the table, and in this
attitude remained motionless for some moments,
as though his transport would not suffer him to
move or speak. However, he probably judged
by our faces that we were in no temper to
listen to his eulogies of the joint. He carved
with a countenance of rapture, and with an air

of concern, too, as though the cutting up of
such a dish as that was a business not to be
lightly and irreverently approached.

It was necessary to talk to the man, so I said,
"If this breeze holds I suppose we shall soon
be swept out of soundings ? "

'' Yes," he answered, pouring out a caulker
of rum, and holding up the glass to the skylight
to see how much it held. "We shall be having
the Lizard over our stern this time tomorrow,
sir. If we keep all on as we are."

'' Upon my word," said I, speaking somewhat
heedlessly, out of the mere fulness of my
thoughts just then, ''so much has happened
since the anchor was lifted off Deal that it
seems as If we had been a week on the road
already."

"What's happened?" he asked quickly.
It's all been plain sailing, hasn't it ? There's
been notion that you as a passenger have had
cause to grumble about ? "

The time seems long, anyhow," I responded
curtly.

It'll have to be longer yet afore It's ended,"
said he, turning his little eyes upon Miss Grant.

She had hitherto kept silent, scarce glancing
at him : now she suddenly exclaimed, with a
flash of her dark eyes full Into his ruddy face,
When do you Intend to release the unfortunate
man you have fastened to the mast ? "

He took a long pull at his glass of rum and
water before answering her, and then said,
Not until I think the weather's had time to
purge him."

"Is he to be kept there all day ? " she
continued.

"Ay, mum, and all night, too. Billy,"
addressing the cabin-boy, "jump with this here
beef, my lad ! away with It ! If ye drop so much
as a youthful of grease, stand by ! and mind that
the sudden's covered up as ye bring it along,
and keep to leeward with It, d'ye hear ? for
there's a showering of sprays to windward now
and again, and If you salt the sudden I'll salt
yo7i^ / The fact Is, mum," he continued, addressing
Miss Grant afresh, "there's no use In
half-measures with sailors. We've Quot a crew
aboard as wants riding down, and the man as
needs It most is the taller rogue you're a-pitylng.
Were the fellow an Englishman I don't know

that I shouldn't consider a twelve hours' spell
at the foot of the fore mast as much as he
deserves ; but he's a half-and-half, and my
experience is, the blacker the blood that runs Ina
man's veins the longer's the tarn of teaching
he stands in need of."

'' Is he to be kept without food ? " she
exclaimed.

He is, mum," he answered cheerfully.

On this she rose and left the table without
another word.

What makes the lady so terribly sensitive
to sailors' feelings ? " exclaimed Breakwater,
with as much puzzlement on him as his
countenance could express. " I see she ain't
married. Has she a sweetheart at sea ? On

less maybe you ?" He shut one eye, and

looked at me with the other.

Never concern yourself about her or me
either," said I. *' Keep your mind clear, my
friend, for you'll be wanting plenty of space
presently for the thoughts your crew'll fill you
with."

"What do you mean, sir?" he exclaimed
coarsely and angrily.

I mean this," I replied quietly, though my
feelings were hot enough, " if you do not shift
your course and head on another tack with
your forecastle, there'll be a mutiny aboard
before we're a week older."

At this his little mouth rounded Into a
complete circle, the blood came into his face,
down dropped the slab of pudding he was in
the act of raising to his lips. "Mutiny!" he
cried. '' Mutiny aboard me ! Mutiny afore
another week's out ! Why — why — why," he
stammered, " what have ye been hearing of to
put such fancies Into your head ? "

I judge by my eyes, not by my ears," I
replied, still coldly and very quietly, " though I
don't doubt that a few minutes of listening
at the forecastle would convince me even
more fully than my sight."

Just then the mate arrived, having been
relieved by the boatswain that he might get
his dinner.

"Mr. Bothwell! Mr. Bothwell ! " cried
Breakwater, whose face was of a dark crimson,
"what d'ye think Mr. Musgrave here's
a-threatening ? Why — why — why, that there'll

be a mutiny aboard me afore another week's
out."

'' Indeed ! " answered the mate blandly, but
nevertheless exhibiting his teeth In a smile that
made his handsome face mighty malevolent
while the grin lasted ; *' I hope not. On what
does Mr. Musgrave found his fears, sir ? "

On the captain's and your usage of the
men," said I, resenting the sarcastic air of the
fellow.

But what have Captain Breakwater and I
done, sir, to justify this terrible apprehension
on your part ? "

I want you to understand, Captain Broad-water,"
said I, not choosing to heed the mate's
question, '' that you and you alone are responsible
for Miss Grant's and my safety. I now
warn you that that safety Is being seriously
imperilled by your treatment of the crew of this
brig. Indeed," I continued, suffering my
temper to get the better of me, *' already the
outlook of this voyage fills me with so much
uneasiness that since we are still in the English
Channel, and — with this wind — within a few
hours' run of a port, Miss Grant and I are

willing and desirous that you should set us
ashore ; the conditions being, of course, that
we forfeit our passage-money."

Now I had fully believed that on my saying
this he would have fallen into a violent passion,
raged at and insulted me, defied me to compel
him to head the ship for the coast, and so on.
Instead, to my very great surprise, the blood
faded out of his face ; pale indeed he could not
become, but the disorder of his mind manifested,
itself in a complexion that would answer to
pallor in another man's countenance. He
pushed his plate from him as though his
appetite were gone for ever, and in a
wonderfully subdued, changed voice, exclaimed,
*' Mr. Musgrave, sir, I beg that you'll banish
that wish from your mind, sir. To set ye
ashore would be my ruination. There's nothing
in the world, that I can see, that need make
ye uncomfortable. The cabins are roomy,
the living up to the hammer, there's ne'er a
stouter vessel afloat than the Iron Crown ; and,
though it's me as says so, there's no man
living that Capt'n Guy Breakwater "11 yield to
in the knowledge of navigation and handling a

VOL. L L

ship under all circumstances of wind and
weather. There's notion either in the behaviour
of the crew, or in my treatment of 'em,
to breed uneasiness. Indeed," he continued,
speaking most abjectly, " if the lady's really
so concerned by the sight of that there Ernest
Charles at the foremast, why, then, to please
her I'll liberate him in the second dog-watch,
'stead of keeping him there all night, as was
my intention."

The mate ate his dinner with a wooden
face.

'you can do as you please, Captain Broad-water,"
said I, rising. " I have not the slightest
intention to meddle with your notions of
discipline. I simply desire to point out to you
that your treatment of the crew is such as to
render the prospects of the voyage very gloomy
indeed, and if you will head the ship for some
adjacent English port. Miss Grant and I will
be very glad to leave her."

I hope not, sir ! I'd rather not, Mr. Mus-grave
! " he exclaimed, speaking and looking so
dejectedly that I suspected his manner was to a
large degree assumed. " To shift the helm in

this here wind would be extremely awkward —
extremely awkward ; and it'd ruin my reputation
as the master of a passenger-vessel if you was
to give out the reasons of your leaving, which
are all imagination, sir — the fancies of a gent as
has long lost sight of the sailor's character, and
forgot that if life was all soup and bully in the
fo'k'sle there'd be no work done — no work done
whatever ! "

I caught one of the mate's swift glances ; 'twas
as full of malice as could well be packed into
such a nimble roll. There was nothing more to
be said, and in silence I quitted the cabin, satisfied
with my second victory that day over Captain
Breakwater ; but at the same time also profoundly
convinced that a five minutes' conversation with
his mate would influence the old fellow into a
resolution to keep me and Miss Grant on board
at all hazards, trusting maybe to time to soften
and extinguish the prejudice and dislike and
misgivings we had not scrupled to express in
one shape or another.

As Gordon had charge of the deck until four
o'clock in the afternoon, I endeavoured to
ascertain front him what the men thought of the

L 2

captain's treatment of the half-blood ; but he was
very shy and wary, and I believe would not have
conversed with me upon the subject at all had it
not been for the sort of kindness our chat on
the previous night had established between us.
His reply was to the effect that the crew were
cautious in what they said before him, but that
as far as he could gather, the securing of the
man to the mast had raised a very strong feeling
against the captain and mate ; and he said he
believed it was only because the culprit was a
foreigner that they suffered him to remain in
that posture of indignity and pain. " Had he
been an Englishman," he added, " my opinion
is that they'd have gone on cutting him adrift
as fast as the capt'n could seize him up."

The fellow still stood at the mast, bound as
I have already described. Thus he had been
standing since some time before nine o'clock
in the morning. Whether the crew had at anytime
of the day fed him or put a drink to his
lips I could not know ; but though it was not
three o'clock in the afternoon when I made these
observations, the man already — that is to say
after seven hours or thereabouts — exhibited

such sipfns of weakness and distress that one
would have said he was merely kept upon his
feet by the ropes round his body. I never
longed in all my life for anything so heartily as
for the power to cast the unhappy creature adrift
and send him below for a warm meal ; but I had
spoken out freely and done my best, and more
was not to be thought of, though I vowed in my
heart, as I saw the unhappy creature wearily
pass his hands over his eyes, and drop his chin
on to his breast as if his neck could not support
the burthen of his head, that if redress was to be
obtained for him from such machinery of law as
I might find flourishing at Rio I would not spare
my purse to procure it.

The wind blew strong throughout the day.
Indeed before six o'clock it had freshened into
half a gale ; the topgallant-sails had been furled,
and the brig swept roaring through it under
reefed topsails and foresail. The height of the
seas which chased us might have made a man
think himself in the middle of the Atlantic.
Each billow rolled under us with the weight of
the ocean surge, and it was hard to realize that
we were still in the narrow waters. The sky'

had settled into that high, hard stratification of
greenish-gray cloud, with a dark streak in places,
compact and apparently motionless, which nearly
always signifies wind, and as a rule plenty of it.
The brig steered wildly, and the perspiration
poured from the face of the man at the helm ashe
swung to the wheel, putting it down and up,
whilst every floating rush of the fabric off the
liquid brows brought the seas boiling about her
quarters, till the curl of the yeast there would
sometimes be flush with the rail. At sunset the
wildness of the glory was more like the rising
of the luminary on a stormy December morning,
when the heavens open and shut with snow-squalls,
than his descent on a summer's night.
The heavens flushed to a furnace-glow — an
angry, smoking crimson, lightening into pink
zenith wards, and thence floating away in rose
into the very heart of the east. But the sea
kept its dark green colour, and the run of its
frothing peaks from one shining line to another
made the glow of the firmament as startling as
an unreality by the contrast.

Miss Grant remained in the cabin. At the
meal called by the captain "supper" I had

begged her to come on deck, telling her that
Breakwater (and I fixed my eyes on him as I
spoke) had promised to free the man during the
second dog-watch.

When he is released I will go on deck,
-Mr. r^Iusgrave," she said, "but not before.
Such a sight is more than I can bear, and indeed
it is miserable enough to be down here
and feel that the man is still suffering."

He isn't suffering, mum'' said Breakwater ;
he'd laugh at you for supposing' it. The calling
of the sea turns sailors' skins into hides, and
their feelings into horns. If it didn't there'd be
no seamen left, for they'd all die off of consumption
and other delicate complaints. I've
told jMr. Musgrave that to accommodate you the
man shall be liberated in the second doe-watch,
and that means eight bells ; and obliged he ought
to be, for by thunder ! mistress, if it hadn't been
for the concern you're under about him I'd have
kept him there till eight o'clock in the first watch
tomorrow morning ! "

Well, by remaining below she missed not
only a fine and wondrous scene of sundown,
but as gallant and stirring a sea-piece as it was

ever my fortune to view. For whilst the sun,
hidden as he was, hung, as I might suppose,
some four or five degrees above the horizon, a
cloud of canvas loomed up almost dead astern.
The brig was swarming through it at not less
than eight or nine knots, and yet here was a
ship growing out of the olive-coloured welter as
though in very truth she was the rising moon.
She was a large black American clipper, fresh
from the Thames, with canvas white as cotton,
and she had every cloth abroad, with the exception
of her mizen-royal and her fore and main
skysails. The press was prodigious ; one looked
to see the great, swelling, soft white fabric flashing
into a thousand fragments, and melting away
upon the roar of the gale like snow-flakes. Her
speed was not less than fifteen knots in the hour ;
I judged it so by comparing her approach with
our progress. All forward she was smothered
to the spritsail-yard ; but at irregular intervals
she shot her long black shape clear of the dazzle
and fury about her bows, but only to smite the
trough with a blow that hurled up a very storm
of white waters, until you would have taken her
to be a ship sweeping through the first gatherings

of a waterspout. She passed us close, flying
along as though we were at anchor, and her
passage was that of a thunderstorm for the
sound of the gale in her canvas, for the rain-like
hissing all about her sides, and for the multitudinous
shrieking of the wind in her rigging, resonant
as fiddle-strings to the enormous strain put
upon every shroud, backstay, and brace.

Breakwater crazed at her with an inimitable
air of astonishment. I saw him looking up at
his own canvas, and then over the stern of the
brig at the wake there, as though he could not
persuade himself that the great clipper yonder
carried the same weight of wind under which
the Iron Crown was staggering. In a few
minutes her elliptical stern was upon us, with
swift upward leavings of the gleaming gilt-work
upon it, till the letters of her name showed
glaring over her rudder, and with flying plunges
and slow majestic rolling, the stately fabric
step towards with the gloom into the west,
until presently she was as visionary in the
liquid obscurity ahead as the creaming of the
seas there.

On eight bells being struck, Breakwater,

who was standing near the wheel, bawled out,
Mr. Gordon, cast that there Ernest Charles
adrift from the foremast, and tell him to lay
aft ! "

I wondered what the captain meant to say to
the unfortunate wretch, whose long punishment
certainly did not need the topping off of a round
of abuse ; but finding he did not appear, I
crossed the deck and observed a group of seamen
collected at the foot of the mast. On
approaching I saw the figure of the half-blood
prone upon his back.

** What ails the man, Mr. Gordon ? " said I ;
'' has he fainted ? "

*' It's exhaustion, I allow," he answered.

He's been belayed too taut — enough to
prize his heart out of its moorings," exclaimed
one of the sailors in a gruff voice.

** There's a flask of brandy in my cabin," I
exclaimed. '' Where's the boy ? He'll find it."

At this moment the mate arrived. " What's
the trouble now ? " he called out in his shrill,
fierce voice.

Charles is in a swound," responded the
boatswain.

The mate bent his back, and looked into the
face of the prostrate man. The twilight was
still abroad, but the gloom of the night, darkened
yet by the shadow of vapour that overspread
the sky, was fast deepening, and it was already
difficult to distinguish objects.

Up you get ! " shouted the mate, suddenly
springing erect, with a sharp kick at the recumbent
form. " There's no shamming allowed
aboard this brig. Up with you ! Up with you ! "

He kicked him again and yet again, and then,
as fiercely as a madman would throw himself
upon another, clutched the man about the collar,
and ran his back against the foremast sheer onto
his feet.

I expected to see him fall, but whether he
was actually shamming, as the mate declared,
or had been brought to by Mr. Bothwell's kicks
and handling, he opened his eyes and kept his
feet, though he swayed against the mast, and
I do not doubt would have fallen but for
the support of it.

"Aft with you ! " cried the mate ; " the captain
wants a word with you before you go
below."

He'd better be helped aft' said the boatswain
; " small wonder if he should have lost the
use of his legs."

Aft with you ! " persisted the mate.

The inhumanity of the fellow was maddening.
Murder him at once ! " I cried ; '' it would be
kinder ! "

The mate did not answer, did not even look
round at me. One of the sailors muttered
something ; I did not catch the words, but the
growl had a very ugly note in it. The half-blood
made a step, reeled, and fell heavily. I
walked aft sick at heart, but ere I had made a
few paces I heard the mate exclaim, " Take him
below, then, take him below ! " and passing me
he joined the captain, and they fell to pacing
the deck together.

The night was damp, and the force of the
wind put an edge of cold into it. There was
nothing to court Miss Grant on deck nor to
detain me there ; so I spent the rest of the
evening with her in the cabin, though conversation
after a time grew somewhat laborious,
owing to the dismal creaking and groaning in
the heart of the hull as it strained from hollow

to summit, and groaned again to the stormy
sweep of the blast into the iron-hard canvas
aloft. I told my companion that the half-blood
had been freed and taken below, but said
nothing about the brutality of the mate nor
the condition the man appeared in, whether
actual or affected, when released from the
mast.

And indeed I do not knows that I should
have entered so closely into these particulars,
but for the obligation I am under to exhibit the
causes which led to the extraordinary adventures
I shall have to relate before I bring this
narrative to a conclusion. At the same time,
as pictures of the sea-life are so seldom
attempted, and as the secret history of the
merchant-sailor is so little understood, I cannot
but think it proper that all forms of the vocation,
whether sunny or sombre, whether elevating
or debasing, should, in the interests of the
mariner, be described by those who have an
acquaintance with the calling, and who are able
to plainly write down their recollections and
experiences. I am happy to know that many
of the old forms of inhumanity on shipboard

are extinct, or fast decaying ; yet enough survives
to render, I am sorry to say, even such
a sketch as I have attempted true in many
respects of much that happens in the saintship
of to-day. The coarse, unprincipled skipper
still flourishes ; mates of the Bothwell pattern
still are to be found in plenty ; and though the
condition of the sailor has been improved and
fortified by laws which had no existence in the
days of which I am writing, his grievances yet
remain sufficiently abundant to render even a
recurrence to the usages and practices of half a
century ago useful to him at the present moment
as much that continues habitual to his hard,
toilsome, hazardous and unrepresented vocation.
But to proceed.

The wind blew fresh all that night, and did
not fail us until we had put twenty leagues
between us and the Scilly Islands. It then fell
light and drew ahead, and forced us upon a bowline,
and for twenty-four hours we were staggering
most abominably upon a long swell, with a
true Biscay sweep in the run of it ; wrinkled
with the wind, but formless ; swollen enough to
fetch a harsh voice of small ordnance from the

canvas that it swayed into violent slaps against
the masts, and into short blasts like explosions
with the sudden rounding-out of the cloths.
Affairs on board seemed to run during this
while pretty smoothly. I saw the half-blood
named Charles at work on the day following
the night of his release, and I do not know
that old Breakwater made further trouble of the
matter for which the fellow had been punished.
The notion, or perhaps the hope rather, grew
in me that he meant to soften somewhat his
truculent treatment of the men. I had indeed
spoken very plainly, and I took it that he had
turned my words over in his mind when he was
not too fuddled with liquor to think coherently,
and had determined not to put it in my power
to create a difficulty for him at Rio or on his
return home. The mate, too, seemed disposed
to quiet down, as if he had got his cue from the
captain. It is true that he could never hail a
man aloft, or call him when on deck, without an
exasperating note of quite unnecessary temper
in the fling of his voice. But it seemed to meas
if he was no longer incessantly on the lookout
for something to fly in a rage over. I suspected

however that both he and Breakwater
moderated their behaviour only when Miss
Grant and I were on deck. At all events the
ship's work seemed to be carried on without
much fret and jar ; yet, whether it was because
the old sailorly instincts in me sharpened my
sympathies, or because I feared that the conduct
of the captain and his mate had already raised
a devil forward, which even the quieter bearing
of such men as they was not likely to lay, I
confess I could never look at the crew without
seeming sensible of an indefinable air amongst
them which I can best convey by speaking of it
as a sort of morose uneasiness.

Breakwater, I am bound to say, showed no
sulkiness towards us for our plain speaking and
dealing;. You would have thought there had
been no trouble whatever between us had you
heard him praising the meals at table, bragging
of his old experiences, boasting of his brig as
though she was the loveliest frigate then afloat,
and so forth. As to the mate, we gave him so
wide a berth that often a whole day passed
without our exchanging a sentence with him.
The only companionable creature aboard was

Gordon, in whose quarter-deck walk I was
always glad to join when the night came round
that gave him the first wash as we call it at sea
that is, from eight to twelve. Naturally Miss
Grant and I were very much together. This,
to be sure, was unavoidable ; but I own that I
would get a bit troubled in my mind when, after
turning in and extinguishing the lamp, I found
my imagination haunted by her fine eyes, her
noble figure, and above all by a certain sweetness
in the tone of her voice that would at all
times, long after she was silent, linger upon my
ear like a memory of glad and gentle music. I
sometimes said to myself. Suppose I fall in love
with her ? It would be impossible to conceive
of a more inconvenient passion. It was idle
to argue with myself and pretend that I need
not fall in love with her unless I chose. Reason
might talk very soberly about such a thing, but
my instincts knew better. In short, not being
able to make sure of myself in this direction,
I arrived at the conclusion that I had acted as a
fool in consenting to lock myself up ina small
brig with a handsome woman whose heart was
another's, and to the fascination of whose person

VOL. I. M

and manners I was expected to oppose as immovable
a countenance as old Breakwater's.
Had there been other passengers we might
have made shift, for considerable intervals at all
events, to manage without one another's company
; but we were alone — a condition of the
voyage I cannot say I had seriously contemplated
or even lightly thought of before embarking
on this adventure — and the result was
we were incessantly together. I had purchased
a chess-board and a pack or two of cards, and
when the deck bored us, or the weather there
was uncomfortable, we would sit down and playa
game in the cabin ; and I say it was difficult
for me to be hour after hour and day after day
encountering her spirited, sparkling glances,
watching her smiles, listening to her graceful
fancies, observing the fifty fascinating elegances
of her posture and movements, without thinking
a very great deal more about her when I was
alone, and perhaps even when I was in her
company, than my honour could approve or my
judgment understand.

MIDNIGHT ALARM.

We had been eight days out when I met
with a very unpleasant experience. The brig
was still on the Spanish parallels. The night
had come down moonless and dark, and the
vessel, close-hauled under all plain sail, was
quietly rippling over the breathing surface of
the sea, with lines of delicate green fire
breaking from her cut water to abreast of the
gangway, where they trembled out Into the
deep blackness there. The air was damp
with dew, and as Miss Grant was below and
there was nobody on the quarter-deck but
the mate, I flung my cheroot overboard, and
entered the cabin. There I found my companion
with a book in her hand, trying to
read by the light of the lamp, whose swaying

M 2

to the movements of the brig bothered the eye
with a flitting of shadows. Breakwater was
at his usual place at the table, with a bottle of
rum and a steaming glass before him. He
sat apparently lost in thought, with one eye
shut and the other fixed upon the lamp, his
little mouth rounded into the familiar whistling
shape, his pear-shaped nose as ruddy as the
liquor in the bottle, and the expression on his
face indescribably absurd with its rubicund cast
of tipsy sentiment.

'' Have a glass of rum and water, Mr.
Musgrave ? " he said to me, with a stupid
smile, pointing with a drooping finger to the
tumbler before him, yet speaking as if the
silence had grown oppressive and he was glad
to break it.

I declined, and asked Miss Grant what she
was reading. Before she could answer, Broad-water
said, "Beg pardon, Mr. Musgrave, but
can you tell me if you're a married man,
sir ? "

I certainly can tell you," I replied, bursting
into a laugh ; '' I am not married. Are
you ? "

Yes, sir," he answered, '"' and I wish I
wasn't. She's a nice young lady, but," he
added gloomily, '' I don't like her mother, sir.
That there mother of hers is always interfering
; and whats worse, she's got no respect
for me." His hand wandered somewhat
aimlessly towards his glass, which he presently
grasped, half emptied, and replaced with a
heavy sigh. '•' Mr. iNIusgrave," he went on,
you'll excuse me, sir, if you please. You'll
be marrying some of these days — bound to it
an' I'd strongly recommend ye to take
Capt'n Breakwater's advice — the advice of old
Guy Breakwater, who's as well known from
Freshwharf down to Blackwell as the ]monument
is, or the dome of St. Paul's : don't you
go and get married to a party that's got a
mother. If you do, you'll find you've gone
and married 'em both. There's nothing as
weighs upon a man's feelings like his wife's
mother. You mind, sir. Remember what I
says, and you'll recall this voyage as the
one circumstance of your life that was the
making of ye."

He drained his glass, and pulling out his

great silver watch, that seemed to pop from his
trousers-band like a cork from a bottle, he
cast an uncertain glance at it, and rose with a
succession of nods at me, whilst he said,
Recollect Capt'n Breakwater's advice, sir :
it'll be the making of ye," fell about a little
whilst he replaced the bottle in the locker, and
then, saluting Miss Grant with a tipsy smile,
lurched towards his cabin, talking to himself ashe
went, the burthen of his words being, as
far as I could collect it, " Take my advice, Mr.
Musgrave ; it'll be the making of ye."

As he was nightly in the habit of withdrawing
to his cabin more or less overtaken with
liquor, we had by this time grown used to the
practice, had come indeed to view it as part
of the navigation of the Iron Crown, and had
therefore nothing to say about it now. We
sat talking for half an hour or so : Miss Grant
then went to bed ; and after smoking my pipe
in the companion - hatchway, from which
sheltered point I took notice of the heavy
gloom amid which the ship was sailing — a
shadow so thickened with the deep dusk of
the night, through which here and there a star

glanced haggard and sparely, that the fabric of
spar and canvas was invisible from half the
height of the mainmast — I descended to my
berth, and, to use the proper nautical expression,
turned in."

On extinguishing the light and pulling the
blankets over me, I found my mind somewhat
threateningly active. ]\Iaybe I was a bit
nervous ; why, I knew not, unless I harked
back to Breakwater's supper and dinner-table,
in whose dishes indeed reasons might be found
for an intellectual condition only a little short
of lunacy. I fell to thinking of the captain's
being in liquor, of the blackness through which
the brig was stemming, of our safety being
dependent upon the vigilance of the mate,
who, for all I knew, might be snoring on his
back on the skylight or on a hencoop, whilst
the man at the wheel lurched there with eyelids
of lead and his chin upon his breast. Now
and again came the long-drawn sobbing sounds
of water washing along the bends close against
where my head lay, with a note of yearning in
the small roar of its passage that set me
thinking of the cold death in the liquid profound

under our keel, and of the slenderness
of the structure of plank, tree-nail, and beam,
which was our only barricade against the
intrusion of the spectre. Then Miss Grant
came into my head, and the thought of her
beauty put a sort of light into my mood,
though my fancies continued to hang in a
nervous jumble upon my mind. However,
after a while I fell asleep, and lay dreamless for
some time, as I believe ; and may have rested
so for an hour or more, when I had a hideous
nightmare. I dreamt that the cabin-door was
suddenly flung open, and that Captain Broad-water
entered with his eyes on lire and his
face blood-red with drink. He grasped the
immense carving-knife he was in the habit of
flourishing at table, and approached me close.
Whence came the light by which I viewed him
I know not ; but he was horribly distinguishable.
He seemed to say, and I quite understood
him, that it was his intention to murder
me because I wished to leave his ship ; but
that, as his hatred of me was too intense to
suffer him to despatch me quickly, it was his
intention to destroy me by degrees. I lay

paralyzed, tried to bawl out, but could utter no
sound, endeavoured to stir, but felt as dead asa
log of wood. Agony at length broke the
spell ; I awoke, sprang into a sitting posture,
with the perspiration pouring from my face, and
stared, panting as if I had been wounded to
death, into the blackness of the cabin.

As I sat peering and endeavouring to collect
my senses, I heard the sound of what resembled
a human groan. It seemed to come
from the floor of my cabin. I was still suffering
from the agitation caused by my nightmare ;
and my nerves having been unduly wrung,
whilst I had scarcely yet had time to recollect
myself, I confess that this strange and alarming
noise filled me with so much consternation that
I felt almost as helpless as when Breakwater
stood beside me in the vision. The extraordinary
noise was repeated ; I could not doubt
my hearing. It rose from the deck under my
bunk, and was so exceedingly like the groan of
a drunken man in pain that I thought to myself,
Good God ! there may be more in my
dream than I am as yet conscious of!

The sense of the presence of a real danger

ISIAROONED. CHAP.

served to rally me. My tinder-box — I had no
other means of procuring a light — was in the
pocket of my coat that hung near the door,
and it was necessary to get out of bed to
obtain it. I threw my legs over the edge of
the bunk, intending to very warily slide round
by the bulkhead to where the coat was, that I
might not tread upon whatever the object
might be that groaned upon the deck, when
the noise sounded again — a thick, snoring,
choking moan. I whipped my legs into my
bunk, much more alarmed than it pleases me
to confess. Great mercy ! thought I, is it
conceivable that Breakwater in a drunken fit
has really entered this cabin with the design of
murdering me, and that the liquor he has
swallowed has proved too potent at the last
moment to enable him to execute his horrid
project ! If he has a knife in his hand, I
reflected, starting as another groan arose, I
may stumble over him in groping and fall upon
the blade ; or if I should roll over him he
mio-ht not be too drunk to imagine that I was
attacking him, when of course he would defend
himself and perhaps kill me.

Another groan determined me. This must
end, thought I, come what will ; and with that
I slipped over the edge of my bunk, but
instead of touching the deck my feet pressed
upon a soft, naked, hairy body. Before I could
cry out, the thing started up with a savage
squeal and threw me down. It ran over me,
but my fright was so great that I had not the
least idea whether it was man or beast, until,
putting out my hands to protect myself, I
grasped a curly tail, to my drag upon which
the pig — for a beast of a pig it was ! — responded
by making his nature known in a
series of ear-piercing squeaking. I groped
for the door, found it open and swinging to the
movement of the vessel, and feeling for the
hook secured it backwards against the bulkhead.
I then sought for and tumbled into my
small-clothes ; but whilst moving with my arms
outstretched to where I thought I should find
my coat I fell over the pig again. I was now
as angry as I had before been frightened ; in
truth I was not a little bruised with my falls,
and my temper was still further inflamed by
the distracting cries of the pig whenever I

struck against it. Miss Grant opened her door.
She had lighted her lamp, and fearing that the
beast would make for her, I cried out : "It's
only a pig. I'll have him out of this In a
minute. Shut your door quickly, or he'll run
in upon you." She Instantly did as I told her,
but a moment after I could hear her laughing
as though she had fallen hysterical.

I stepped cautiously towards the passage,
and found the door that shut off the after-accommodation
from the state-cabin closed.
But for this, I should have had light enough
from the reflection of the dimmed lantern that
swung in the cabin to have seen by. By
sliding my hands about I succeeded in feeling
the handle of the door, which I opened ; but
the moment the light streamed in the pig ran
for it, and striking me on the legs as it swept
past, threw me again to the deck. The cabin-skylight
was opened, and the voice of someone
above called to me. I could just distinguish
the features of the boatswain, but
before I could tell him what was the matter,
Breakwater, followed by the mate, came running
out from their berths in the fore end.

'' What is it ? what is it ? " shouted the old
skipper. '' Anybody being murdered ? "

But the mate's swiftly rolling eye instantly
caught sight of the pig, at which he made a
spring. The creature with a prodigious squeal
slipped, as though its back had been greased,
out of his grip, and with a wild kick-up of its
hind-quarters, and a defiant flourish of its tail,
made in a gallop in the direction of the captain,
through whose bow-legs it bolted, bringing
him down as if he had been shot. By this
time the boatswain, peering through the skylight
and seeing how it was, had ordered some
of the men of his watch to jump below and
catch the pig, and down they trundled, four of
them, filled with anticipations of a fine bout of
skylarking — for Jack dearly loves a pig-hunt.
The uproar was now prodigious. The pig
raced round the cabin and under the table
yelling like a steam-horn to every clutch that
was made at it ; and after it went the sailors,
tumbling, swearing, laughing, whilst the mate
shouted to them in a shrill voice to bear a hand
and catch the brute. Old Breakwater, who
appeared somewhat dazed by his fall, sat upon

a locker rubbing the back of his head, now and
again lifting his clenched fist as the pig
galloped past him, and heaping curses upon
the thing in a half-smothered tone. The men
however enjoyed the sport too keenly to be ina
hurry to end it, and a full hvQ minutes of
roaring, puffing, laughing, and squeaking
passed before the pig was captured. It was
then carried away by the fellows, one of whom,
it seemed to me, must have tormented it in
some secret manner, for the squealing of the
beast as it was borne up the ladder and along
the deck was so violent and sharp-edged that
it might have been heard a league distant.

Scarce had these distracting notes been
silenced, and just as I was about to put a
question to Captain Breakwater — for talk was
not to be dreamt of whilst that noise lasted — I
heard the boatswain on deck cry out in a loud
and fearful tone, " Hard up ! Hard up ! Over
with it, man, for our lives ! " and then an
instant after, 'ship ahoy!" he roared, with
the same note of violent hurry and sense of
danger in his voice, " Port your helium ! port
your helium, or you'll be into us ! "

The mate gained the deck in a couple of
leaps : Breakwater followed him as though he
had been whipped up by a tackle ; and forgetting
that I was without shoes or stockings,
clad in nothing indeed but a shirt and trousers,
I shot up the ladder to see what was the
matter. It took my eyes some moments to
get used to the gloom, for there was sheen
enough in the cabin to turn the night black
as a wolf's throat when you rose out of the
companion-hatch into it ; then close upon our
starboard-bow, as it seemed to me, I spied
a light oscillating, as though passionately
flourished, and I could just distinguish a huge
black shadow there like a deeper dye of blackness
upon the liquid dusk that overhung the
ocean. A minute after, close by the first
light up sprang a second — a sea-torch of
turpentine, the long sickly flame of which
streamed away into smoke, though it had
power enough to palely colour a small circumference
of atmosphere, out of which there
stole glimmering to the illumination the rigging
and lower canvas of a big ship. She loomed

up so close aboard that the sight was something
to hold a man breathless.

In the brief interval of silence that followed
the boatswain's cry to her to port her helm, I
could distinctly hear the hiss and splash of the
curl of water breaking at her stem ; the voice
of a man rapidly delivering orders as though
for life or death ; the rattle of tiller-chains to
the swift revolution of the wheel ; the flap of
some light sail aloft buried in the black void,
hollowing inwards as the ship, answering her
helm, rounded to the wind. One moment she
was off our bow, the next abreast of us, so
close that the face of the man holding the
streaming flare-tin glimmered out yellow as the
rind of a ripe lime ; and as he leaned from the
bulwark-rail, torch in hand, swinging at arm's
length from a backstay, the figure of him upon
the yellow atmosphere of light was for all the
world like a human shape wrought in black
silk upon a ground of rusty amber. I cowered
involuntarily, believing the stranger's jibbooms
to be over us, and expecting every minute to
hear the rending and crashing of masts and

Strong fastenings to the sheering sweep of
those outstretched spars. She was soon on
our quarter, and then it was possible to fetch a
breath ; though even when there, you felt her
terrifying presence in the oppression of the
vast shadow of her black heights upon the
dusk. Presently the flare over her side went
out — the blotch she made melted into the
general shadow — and then she was as utterly
gone from the sight, though but a few cables'
lengths distant, as though she had foundered.

By this time Breakwater had recovered his
faculties, and he now let fly a whole hurricane
of questions at the boatswain ; demanding to
know how it was that the vessel had not been
sighted sooner, whether there was a man forward
on the look-out, and the like. But neither
rage nor rum could blind him to the almost
preternatural gloom of the night. Indeed it
was like being in a vault. One or two stars
showed faint as the dimmest of their own reflections,
and it staggered one to see them, so
unreal was their wan gleam. What had become
of the moon I do not know. The outline of
the brig met the blackness without a break, and

VOL. I. N

though I stood within a couple of yards of the
boatswain and Breakwater, I should not have
known there were people near me but for their
voices. Gordon answered the skipper quietly,
said that he had been keeping as bright a lookout
as was practicable to mortal sight on such
a night, but that, had he had as many eyes in
his head as a peacock carries in its tail, and
each eye a telescope at that, it would have been
all the same ; to which old Breakwater answered
with a growling, '' Well, boil me, if it ain't so ! "
and after that cooled down and spoke rationally.


But just before I went below I heard Gordon
exclaim, *' It was the crying of the pig, sir, that
made our presence known. The ship heard it,
and showed a light, guessing there was some
craft close aboard. If it hadn't been for that
squeaking, I allow that we should have been on
the road to the bottom before this."

A TRAGEDY.

You will believe, after hearing the boatswain's
remark to the captain, that I was no
longer disposed to make a trouble of the
invasion of my berth by the pig. A trifle
light as air will at sea, and often in an instant,
become as solemn and as serious a thing as
doom. I returned to the cabin cold from the
deck, with the chill moreover in me that a
sudden danger and swift release will put into
a man, and going to my berth I thrust my
feet into a pair of warm slippers, wrapped a
dressing-gown about me, and re-entered the
cabin with a bottle of brandy in my hand for
the comfort of a dram. I was waiting for the
arrival of Breakwater, desiring to gather,
though without temper, how the pig had made

N 2

its way aft, when I was surprised by Miss
Grant peeping through the door that led to
our berths, and then advancing.

** I expected you would be up, Mr.
Musgrave," she exclaimed, seating herself at
my side; 'what a noisy time this has been!
Far more alarming indeed than the commotion
the other night when the poor man committed
suicide. I have really felt frightened."

Yet she did not look so. Her eyes were as
steady, her lips as composed, her manner as
quiet as ever they had been in the tranquillity
hour we had passed together since our first
meeting. Her hair, roughened by the pillow,
made her beauty the more striking for the
disorder of it upon her white forehead and
whiter neck. It was no moment to take notice
of such trifles, but it seemed to me that this
woman .could never look more fascinating than
when newly and hastily arisen from her couch,
and hurriedly attired in a pink dressing-gown !

I related my story of the adventure with the
pig, at which she laughed continuously, until
I came to tell her of our narrow escape, and
how, under Heaven, an incident that would

seem merry enough to everybody but the
person who took part In it, was the cause of
our escape from a catastrophe that might have
sent every soul of us to the bottom ; and then
she grew very grave.

'rit needs an effort of mind," said I, "to
conceive of the genius of luck taking upon
itself the aspect of a pig. Henceforward I
shall think respectfully of Breakwater's affection
for roast and boiled pork."

'' I wish this voyage were over, Mr.
Musgrave," she exclaimed. '' I feel as if we
had already passed a couple of months at sea.
Do you think If the ship had run into us we
should have been drowned?"

Impossible to say, Miss Grant. She was
a lump of a craft, to judge by the huge loom
of her shadow ; and I fear that, staunch as
the Iron Crown may be, one thrust from
that big chap would have made old staves
of the little hooker."

At this moment Breakwater's bow legs
appeared In the companion-way. Down he
came, pulling off his hat as he arrived. Sleep,
and the turmoil of the pig-hunt, and the alarm

he was fresh from, had cleared his head, and
he was as sober as one could wish.

'' Rather late for you to be a-sitting up,
miss," said he approaching the table ; '* there's
no longer call to be afraid. It'll be all plain
sailing now for the rest of the night."

'what time is it, captain?" she inquired.

He pulled out his watch — ** weighed it"
would be the correct term, for it was like
breaking out an anchor — and said, '' Close
upon four bells — two o'clock, mum. Is that
there bottle yours, Mr. Musgrave ? "

I replied that it was, and grasping the hint
conveyed by the question, begged him to help
himself. He smacked his lips to the draught,
for the brandy was of my own buying, choice
and old, and said : "' A close shave that just
now, sir. I don't know that I ever remember
a darker night, considering it's fine weather."

"Ay," said I, 'dark it is; much too dark
for human eyesight, as your second mate truly
said. *Tis fortunate that we are endowed with
other faculties than vision only. Had there
not been ears aboard the stranger to catch the
squeaking of my pig where should we be now ? "

How could the pig have got into the
cabin ? " exclaimed Miss Grant.

Why," answered Captain Breakwater, *' he
must have broken out of his sty under the longboat,
and grubbed along quietly in the darkness
until he comes to the companion-way,
down which he rolls, courted, maybe, by a smell
of feeding'. All hands of us aft being asleep, as
I allow, there was nobody to hear him. But
if that there door was shut," he added, pointing,
*' I don't see how the pig was to get into your
passage ; and supposing j^^^r door to have been
shut, how was he to enter your cabin ? "

It seems however that the door that conducted
to the passage had been left open and
unhooked, so that it was likely the pig, in
grubbing about, had given it a shove with its
snout and slammed it to. But how the creature
contrived to enter my cabin, the door of which
I remember having shut, I was at a loss to
imagine, until, going presently to fetch a
cheroot — for I was absolutely sleepless and was
in the habit of smoking whenever it pleased mein
the cabin, with Miss Grant's good leave, of
course — I examined the latch of the door of my

berth, and observed that the tongue caught so
thinly that it yielded to the slightest pressure.

I think Breakwater would have gone
straightway to bed had it not been for my
brandy-bottle. Miss Grant protested that she
felt too restless to return to her cabin, and said
she wished it were daylight.

The dawn'll soon be coming along, miss'
said the captain ; " meantime, what's there to
be uneasy about now ? "

The lady is not uneasy, captain," said I,
her rest has been broken, and she no longer
feels sleepy ; " and I wondered that even his
little eyes should not have observed her composed
and tranquil expression. Indeed it
seemed to me that what uneasiness there was
lay altogether in hwi. His manner was subdued,
he spoke with a note of respect ; there
was that in his bearing which suggested that
the weight of his alarm had not yet lifted, and
I would see him sometimes shoot a look at the
companion or up at the skylight, and then
thoughtfully stroke down his nose, whilst his
little eyes met in a squint upon the glass around
which his carrot-shaped fingers were curled.

He was too much of a seaman not to know that
we had all of us come off just now very narrowly
indeed with our lives ; and though, as I have
said, he would no doubt have gone to bed but
for the brandy, he could not sit there and reflect
upon what had occurred without indications of
discomposure, which contrasted strongly with
Miss Grant's reposeful expression, steadfast
eyes, and calm, sweet utterance.

And yet from the few words she had let fall,
I was sure that she had mastered the full significance
of the danger we had escaped as completely
as if she had witnessed the scene — as
completely indeed as if she had been as practical
a sailor as the captain himself. Once she
lifted her finger to the light moan of a sea running
stealthily along the side against which we
were leaning, and exclaimed : "How cold the
sound is there ! I remember once telling
Alexander that qualities sensible to the touch
may also be so to the hearing. He did not
understand me ; but surely, Mr. Musgrave,
isn't the icy breath of a winter's blast, as it
sweeps past the window, as perceptible to the

ear as it would be to the face if one should
look out of doors ? "

I find nothing hard to understand in that
fancy," I replied ; meanly willing, I fear, to
exhibit my understanding as in some senses
superior to her Alexander's. " I once saw a
man lying dead in a posture of terror — he
had died with a shriek, I learned ; but I did
not need to be told that, for I could see
his cry in the attitude, though Death's forefinger
had been upon his lips for twenty-four
hours."

'' A queer sort of twisting of the faculties, ain't
it, sir?" exclaimed old Breakwater; '' to see a
shriek, and hear cold weather ! That's a kind of
boiling above most men's intellectuals, I should
think. With your good leave, Mr. Musgrave,
I'll take another drop, sir. Good old Jamaica,
as a standing drink, is to my taste unsurpassable
by any sort o' liquor to be found in the first
nobleman's cellar in the country ; but a drop of
brandy after this here pattern is an agreeable
change, and I've heard," he continued, helping
himself, " that an occasional variation is recommended

by the doctors as serviceable to the
liver. Your heath, sir ; miss, to you."

He nodded with more complacency than I
had ever witnessed in him when not in his cups
and sighed with satisfaction after drinking.

I thought I would take advantage of his
mood to put in a good word for his crew, and
said, " Your fellows seem a lively lot — true
Jacks when it comes to a bout of skylarking.
Did you notice how they relished the pig-hunt ?
I should say there's nothing to be afraid of in
men who possess their capacity of enjoying
Httle things."

I had scarce uttered these words when,
through the silence that followed, and through
the whole length and breadth of the brief, as it
seemed to me, there rang out so wild and shrill
a cry of human anguish, that the like of it I
could never imagine deliverable by human lips.
You would have sworn it was a woman's voice,
and had not Miss Grant been by my side I
must have thought it was she — as the only one
of her sex on board — who had uttered it.

"Great Heavens!" I cried, 'what has
happened ? "

Breakwater had started to his feet at the
sound, but he then appeared to be stricken
helpless, for he stood staring with a sort of
gape in the set of his lips towards the .
Miss Grant's face was full of
consternation, and she kept her eyes fixed on
me with a wild look of consternation in them.
I listened, expecting to hear a second cry.
There was a sound of swift running overhead ;
a sharp, angry shout in the voice of the boatswain
; a minute after the chief mate came
staggering down the ladder with his hand to
his side, his dark face dreadful to see with the
ghastly colouring upon it. He stood whilst
you could have counted ten at the foot of the
ladder, swaying, his left hand upon his heart,
his right hand extended, his ashen lips inarticulately
moving ; then dropped without a
groan, and lay motionless.

A voice hallowed on deck. I could not
catch the words, but it was easy to recognize
Gordon's tone, and it seemed to me that he
was bawling for assistance from the wheel, or
close to it. The light burnt dully in the cabin
lantern ; I turned the mesh high that we might

see what was the matter with the mate, and
then went up to him. He lay on his side, and
when I looked at his face I could not question
that he was dead. He had run from the cabin
in his shirt and trousers on hearing the squealing
of the pig, and in that attire had bounded on
deck when the boatswain's sudden cry had
raised the alarm of collision, and thus was he
habited as he lay — a clearly murdered man — at
the foot of the cabin steps. His left side was
dark in the lamplight with the saturation of
blood, and already there was a large dusky
patch slowly sifting out, like ink upon blotting-paper,
over the sand-coloured planks on which
the man rested. His head was uncovered, his
eyes half closed, his lips had not yet had time
to soften down out of the rigours of their
grinning twist of agony and terror ; the gleam
of his white teeth was as though he snarled,
spite of his lying still. God knows, handsome
as the lineaments were, it was now a face as
villainous for the wrinkled torment and fierce
sneer about the mouth, and the sly brutality
of the half-closed eyes, and the savageness of
the woolly hair, that even in life when all was

well with him was enough to repel most sorts
of sympathy, as imagination could depicture.
I know that the memory of it, with its base
accentuation of stained deck and dyed shirt,
haunted me for years, and the thing is before
me at this moment, though without the old
horror.

This is a passage that takes some time to
describe, though the interval between the
dropping of the killed man and my bending
over him was to have been spanned by twenty
or thirty seconds. Breakwater appeared to
have been bereft of reason. A professional
danger — the thundering down of a squall
catching him aback, a big ship under a press
close aboard him, white water under the bows
might have found him equal to its confronting.
The vocation instincts would
have gone to work, and preserved him from
gaping like a fool. But here was something
wide of his experience, a sudden violent shock
a frightful menace in its way, too, for it was
impossible to say what greater and blacker
tragedy yet lay secret, but sure, behind this
first and most bloody one.

I found Miss Grant at my side looking
at the body, with a white face, indeed, but
with a bearing perfectly collected and self-possessed.


Mr. Musgrave," she said, in a quick yet
firm voice, " what Is to be done ? Direct me :
I am prepared to assist you in any way."

So far as this man Is concerned," I answered,
pointing to the body, " there is nothing to be
done. Look at his face. There is no virtue
for him now in any stanching or dressing. He
has been stabbed to the heart !"

She shuddered, and returned to her seat at
the table.

"Captain!" I cried suddenly, angered by
the posture of helplessness into which this
business had struck him, 'there is murder —
murder, do you hear, sir ? If your crew have
not mutinied, what else should this signify ?
There is no leisure at sea, sir, for goggling.
Poor God's sake go on deck, man, and find out
what's the matter ! "

Had I run at him with a pitchfork, the
action could not have started him more
effectually than my speech.

Goggling ! who's a-goggling ? " he roared.
By this and by that," and here he bellowed
out a whole volley of curses, *' the man who's
done this thing shall swing for it ! From my
own yard-arm he shall swing for it, though
there's ne'er a pair of hands on board but mine
to run the villain aloft ! Murder ! Murder
aboard of me ! Why, what do they hope todo
? what's their intention ? "

He made for the companion-ladder with fury
in his looks and gestures ; but at that instant
down thundered the second mate, with his face
as white as its dark tincture of weather would
suffer it to be, as wild in his manner as a demented
man ; so distractedly agitated that his
quick, distressful breathing broke up his words
as they rolled hoarsely from his lips, and it was
with an effort you caught his meaning.

*' Captain ! captain ! " he cried, '^ there's been
a murder done ! The mate — ay, there he lies —
stabbed, sir, stabbed by the half-blood Charles ! "

** Where is he ? " bellowed Breakwater, who
had come to a stand on seeing the boatswain,
but who now gathered himself together afresh
for a spring on deck.

*' Hold, sir ! " cried Gordon, " hold ! hear me
out. For God Almighty's sake deal with
them as though an ill word now should tarn
'em all into wild beasts ! Mr. INIusgrave — sir
you've been to sea. You know that when
sailor-men are ripe for mischief the sight and
smell of blood will change the most peaceable
of them into devils. Tell the captain this,
sir ! beg him to listen to me, sir, or there'll be
not a life of one of us now here collected as'll
stand the chance of that flame there if you was
to try and blow it out."

Captain," said I, half wild with the thoughts
such talk as this put into my head, as I looked
for an instant at Miss Grant to mark what
effect the incoherent consternation of the boatswain
produced upon her, '' you must listen to
this man. He has something to tell you.
There are three of us ; I have weapons of my
own, and you will not be without arms. For
God's sake, don't let the worst happen without
preparation ! Sit — be cool. There, '^ I cried,
pointing to the body of the mate, " is something
to warrant a cold debate ! " and with that I
grasped him by the arm, with a quick sense of

vol I. o

satisfaction coming to me, somehow or other,
out of the feel of the mass of muscle my
fingers gripped, and shoved him towards a
locker. He sat down, with his face as dark as
the stain on the cabin deck, without speaking,
with a fixed glare of his little eyes at Gordon,
and a kind of suffocated heaving of his breast.

Now, Gordon ! " I exclaimed.

The man had already grown somewhat
calmer.

'' Captain," he said, " this is how it happened.
Charles, the half-blood, was at the wheel.
When you went below, the mate," here he
turned his eyes with a sickly roll upon the
body, and a sharp catching of his breath,
"came up to me, and talked of the craft that
had nearly run us down. He spoke in a
passion, gave me hard words — told me I had
no eyes, wasn't fit to take charge of the deck,
and swore cruelly that he'd reckon his own
eyesight to have been blasted if he'd have
missed the shadow long afore they showed the
binnacle light over the side. We argued, and
I fell as hot as he. After a long spell of jawing
he went forwards, and I heard him talking

to some of the men there. His words went
with a snap in them — bitter hard words they
was, sir ! — a sight too fierce for flesh and blood ;
and the men took courage, I suppose from the
blackness, and gave it him back, till forwards it
grew into a whole growl of curses, and then,"
he continued with another sickening look at
the figure, *' he steps aft threatening them with
a hundred work-up jobs for tomorrow. He
comes up to me, and lets fly again. He talked
as if he hadn't his right mind, and I tell ye that
I peered for the gleam of a knife in his hand,
dark as it was, for he acted as if he were eoino-
to run a muck. It was his watch below ; there
was nothing to keep him on deck ; whilst, if I
couldn't boast of his education, there was
nothing on God's ocean in the seafaring line
as he was competent to teach me." He cast
another look of dismay and disgust at the deadman,
and stopped to take breath.

Breakwater watched him with a fixed gaze.
I was afraid he would interrupt the fellow, but
he had fallen into his earlier posture of bewilderment
and astonishment.

'' I could follow him," continued Gordon,

o 2

by the white of his shirt a-flitting about the
deck, and after a bit he walks to the wheel
where Charles was, and spoke to him. There
was some muttering ; then I heard appointing
with his finger at the body without
looking at it, "talking shrill as a fishwife, whilst
the half-blood answered sulkily, as a man
struggling with his temper ; and this went on
till of a sudden Mr. Both well made the cry
ye must have heard, and before I could run aft
he had slipped to the companion, where I lost
sight of him. I found the wheel deserted.
The half-blood had gone forward in the murky
blackness along the line of the larboard bulwarks,
and though I noticed the slapping of
shoes, yet, not seeing him, I supposed he was
still at the helm. I hallowed for some one to
lay aft and take the wheel. The moment he
came, I says, 'Where's Charles?' 'In the
fo'k'sle,' he answers. 'What's he done?'
says I, for I couldn't guess at the truth of the
matter from the noise of Mr. Bothwell's yell.
He's knife the mate,' says he. ' How do
you know that ? ' says I. ' Why,' he says,
afore dropping down the scuttle he sings out,

Nat — Dan — Terence— is there e'er a one of
you on deck?" '/ am,' says I, who was
standing close. ' By God ! ' says he, ' the
mate'll trouble us no more ; my knife has
found his heart out ! It'll be the skipper's
turn next ! ' "

Breakwater started to his feet.

'* For Heaven's sake, hear him out ! " I
cried ; " time may be precious ; how on earth
shall we know what to do unless we get the
truth "

The skipper had lifted his arm with a frenzied
gesture, and would have plunged, spite of my
entreaty, into one of his now familiar roaring
bouts ; but happily he was half-suffocated by
rage and terror, and scarcely able to articulate.
He continued to watch the boatswain, whilst
his extended arm fell to his side.

'' When I heard this," continued Gordon,
throwing a look up the companion-ladder as if
he suspected listeners there, " I went forwards,
put my head into the scuttle, and called to
Charles. He answered without showing himself.
I says, ' In God's name, what have you
gone and done ? ' ' I've sent a villain to hell,'

he answers, ' let him come back if he can.'
Some of the chaps laughed at this. They had
trimmed the fo'k'sle lamp afresh, and all hands
seemed wide awake, as no doubt they would be
after the row of the pig and the danger we
scraped clear of ; but I tell ye, Captain Broad-water,"
he continued, with another look up the
ladder, " that there was a sound in them men's
laughter which gave me to know that a cask of
gunpowder, with the head knocked off lying
clear for the first spark, wouldn't be a bigger
danger in the hold of this vessel than's her
fo'k'sle to her as it now stands, sir." He paused,
dried his face on a great blue handkerchief, and
then went on speaking hurriedly. " I says,
Charles, you must come out of that ! No use
skulking below. There's no stabbing men in
this here craft and lying snug after it. Up with
ye now, — don't give me the trouble to fetch ye.'
He bawled out a curse, keeping hidden all the
time. I put my leg over, but ere I could lift
the other, four or five men sprang under the
hatch, and one of them said, ' See here, Mr.
Gordon. We don't owe you no grudge.
These are your quarters as they are our ; but

the man's not to be touched. Understand that !
By the Eternal ! if so be a finger's laid upon him
the capt'n '11 answer for it with his life ; so aft
with ye, sir, and give him this piece of news
from his fo'k'sle.' I got out of the hatch, and
after a look down at the men, came away to tell
ye what's happened."

I had made up my mind to offer no suggestions,
and so contented myself with watching
Breakwater, wondering what measures such a
head as his would be able to devise for the
remedying of the horrible mess into which he
and his mate had plunged us. He seemed to
wake up when the boatswain ceased, and fell to
pacing the cabin in silence, measuring twenty or
thirty strides before he spoke. He then said,
Better return on deck, Mr. Gordon, and look
after the brig, sir. Send Billy here." The
boatswain ascended the ladder ; Breakwater
resumed his walk.

One wants a paint-brush instead of a quill for
such a picture as this. The dead body of the
mate ; Miss Grant motionless and composed,
though, methought, there was a flash of an
almost preternatural vitality in the dark sweep

of her eyes whenever they met mine ; the short,
square, muscular figure of Breakwater pacing the
length of the cabin, staring ahead of him with
the blind, wooden look of a figure-head ; the
play of shadows set dancing by the lamp ; the
midnight silence on deck ; the soft, washing
sound of water running in some sobbing black
fold along the bends ; the creak and jar of the
fabric as she rolled on the light swell, with many
a muffled note like the short laughs or sullen
grumbling of a company of giants below,
stealing to our ear from the freighted hold beneath
our feet — I say there is nothing in ink to
give you the colour, the horror, the strangeness
of this cabin picture, and the noises breaking
into the interval of silence, during which the
captain stepped from one end to the other,
whilst Miss Grant and I waited for the arrival
of the boy, knowing what he was wanted for.

A few moments before he came, Breakwater
halted at the side of the dead man, stooped and
listened, grasped his wrist and held it, as though
feeling for the life there, then shot erect, and
cried out, " Never before did such a thing
happen aboard of me ! never before ! And they

talk of murdering me too, hey ? How many
lives must it cost 'em ? How many lives must it
cost 'em ? " He thrust his hand into the bosom
of his shirt, and made as if to run to his cabin,
but checked himself, wheeled round, and fell to
pacing the deck afresh.

The boy arrived. " Here," shouted Broad-water
fiercely, '' help me to carry that body to
his berth."

The unhappy youth stood with his knock-knees
trembling one against the other, whilst
he stared at the corpse with eyes which
threatened to leap from their sockets. If ever
human hair stirred upon the head to the
agitation of the spirit, his did. But his fear of
Breakwater was livelier than his dread of the
corpse. Between them they carried the body
to its berth in the fore-end, and I had not
known how heavily the presence of the thing
had hung upon me until it was gone, when I
fetched a breath as easy as a sigh.

Breakwater returned, and the boy shambling
in his wake went stealthily to the ladder, and
then fled up it as though the mate were in pursuit
of him. The captain looked through the

hatch as if he meant to mount on deck, but
hung irresolute, with a short glance round tome
that was like a question. I own that the
difficulty with which he was confronted was
enough to stagger a brighter intellect than his
pork-fed and rum-tinctured brains. Yet his
hesitation at such a juncture was mighty discomposing
too. Observing that he continued
to stand in a posture of doubt at the foot of the
ladder, I said bluntly, believing that a plain
question might help him, '* Captain, what do you
mean to do ? "

He looked at me oddly for some moments,
sent a glance into the black arch of atmosphere
formed by the cover of the companion-way, and
answered in a deep, sea-growling note, " Cursed
if I know. What would soit do ? "

Wait till daylight, anyhow," I replied ;
'' remain cool, and keep my temper. That's
what / should resolve upon first. For the rest
I should be guided by events."

And who says I ain't cool ? " he cried in a
quarrelsome way, " and as to losing my temper

he stopped dead to the sudden choke

of rao^e in his throat, clenched both fists till

I noticed the veins stand out black to the
tension Hke whipcord under the flesh, lifted
his arms to the deck overhead, and shook
them convulsively in a fit of speechless passion ;
then looking for his cap he pulled it fiercely
down to his ears, and went with a heavy tread
up the steps.

"We ought to be grateful," said I, 'that the
fellow's rage is often too great to enable him
to speak. His speechlessness was the very
petrifaction of his curses ! "

"He is not the man," she exclaimed, "for
such an emergency as this. Pray God there
may be some good sense left amongst the crew.
If not, what will happen ? ^'

I comfort myself with the thought," I replied,
"that sailors are slow to mutiny. They know
the law. If they refuse their duty, certain and
severe punishment awaits them ashore ; if they
seize the vessel, it is piracy — a criminal act that
ends with Jack Ketch. If they murder — but
enough of such talk, Miss Grant. Here has
been a wild disturbance that may presently
settle down into a sulky calm ; and let the
tranquillity be as sinister as it will, providing

we can step ashore at Rio before it ends, we
shall have reason to be satisfied."

She glanced at the dark stain on the deck, a
slight shiver ran through her, and she folded
her arms across her breast as though for the
warmth of them.

*' What a night this has been ! " she cried ;
indeed, what a time the whole voyage has
been, so far as it has gone ! I have heard
stories of wild doings in vessels of this kind
trading to the West Indies and to South
America, but nothing to equal our experiences ! "

She shivered again ; I caught a tremble in her
under-lip, and a swift expression of mingled
worry and horror in her eyes, and fearing that
she would break down — and surely what she
had seen and suffered since she had quitted her
berth might well have broken a hardier spirit
than ever woman was yet informed with — I
poured a little brandy into a glass, and begged
her to drink it ; but she waved it aside with a
sudden proud smile, sweet with kindness too.

Do not misjudge me, Mr. Musgrave," she
said ; '' if I seem to falter in a time of trouble, it
is not, I think, from want of courage. It is the

sense of uncertainty that always weakens me
most — the not knowing what to do." She
suddenly ceased, lifting her hand to motion
silence ; but the noise was no more than the
growling of old Breakwater's voice talking to
the boatswain close against the cabin skylight,
one frame of which stood open. We strained
our ears, but could not catch words enough too



enable us to gather the import of their talk. I
advised her to return to her berth, and sleep
out the rest of the night if she could. She
smiled at my speaking of sleep, and said she
would go to her berth and dress herself.

But you wall not come on deck. Miss Grant ? "

'' Why not ? "

Be advised by me, I beg you. It is bleak
and black ; what can you do on deck ? Next,
in the present temper of the men, I could wish
you to keep out of sight of them. The dawn
will soon be at hand, and sunrise may g'wQ a
new complexion to our affairs."

I will do whatever you please," she said
I merely need advice. What follows I hope
I shall have courage enough to meet," and with
another smile — so full of spirit that it was

almost enough to make one doubt that she
fully grasped the significance of our dangerous
situation, in a small brig with murder newly
done, and the crew sheltering and making a
hero of the assassin — she entered her berth.
Ten minutes after, I quitted my own cabin,
fully dressed, and went on deck.

MUTINY.

As I Stepped over the combing of the hatch,
I caught sight of the dawn sifting out into dim
ash along the seaboard on the port, or, as we
then termed it, the larboard side. It was a cold,
unearthly lights and against it the sea-line ran
in a short clear ruling, black as liquid pitch.
The wind was a quiet breeze, as it had been
throughout the night ; but the swell had veered
from abeam to the starboard quarter, and swung
the brig onwards in gliding, floating movements,
though that her sails were doing their work you
knew by the sound of the singing of running
waters rising from the obscurity, mingled with
a dull noise of moaning, and the flat, echoless
plashing of ripple colliding with ripple into

short spouts of sea, which leaped without life
round about the vessel's quarters.

Even as the dawn broke it was yet so dark
that there was nothing to be seen but the
filtering light ; but this brightened fast into a
ragged sort of staring of the radiance over
streaks and through tail-ends of clouds, until
the whole circumference of the horizon sloped
dark to the vague gray of the sky, with a slow
writhing, wonderful to behold, of the shadowy
substance of the brig's sails, masts, and hull,
into determinable forms, out of what was just
now mere impalpable blocks of dusk one on
top of another.

I can conceive of no spectacle more melancholy
and cheerless than the first breaking of
day over the wide and troubled ocean. There
is a bleakness in the aspect of pallid heaven
and yet darkling water, and in the gray complexion
of the canvas and rigging of the ship,
that enters the atmosphere as a sensible quality
of cold ; and I have known men who, though
they had been on deck for several hours without
feeling the edge of the wind, have slapped their
breasts with a shudder to the first opening of

the desolate faintness in the east. But it was
soon broad daylight. The broken, blind sort
of stare among the clouds to larboard melted
out into the flooding of effulgent pink — the sun
lifted a segment of rose-red glory — a sinuous
stream of radiance flashed from one blue brow
to another down to within a musket-shot of us —
and then you saw a piebald sky, mottled into rich
marble with dashes of white vapour — a broad -
bosomed swell rolling in folds of dark blue and
brimming to our channels, freckled with 
wrinkles.

There were some men talking near the fore-hatch
; occasionally they directed their glances
aft to the quarter-deck, where the captain and
boatswain stood in silent waiting, as it seemed
to me, until the spring of the sun from the
ocean should fairly settle the dawn into day. I
took a long survey of the blue circle, but there
was nothing to be seen. Not that there was
anything to be hoped from the sight of a ship,
unless, indeed, she should prove a man-of-war ;
for our trouble was not of a kind that a
merchantman could meddle with. How could
her people serve us ? Advice was hardly likely

VOL. I. p

to prove profitable to Breakwater, and more
than that he was not going to obtain by backing
his topsail to speak a stranger and asking
him to send a boat. And yet even the remotest
gleam of a ship would have yielded mea
sort of feeling of relief, by qualifying, however
worthlessly, the profound sense of loneliness
that possessed me on first seeing the vast stretch
of liquid waste bathed in the delicate light of
the sunrise.

There was an air of surly and defiant stubbornness
in the postures and glances of the group
forward that was instantly noticeable. I counted
seven of them, and supposed therefore that
amongst them was one or more of that division
of the crew which had the watch below. They
appeared to be holding a council ; and it was
startling, I can tell you, to mark their forms, so
to speak, come out from the blackness into the
dawn, and to think of them as having been
there talking one to another, as they now were
when the darkness hid them.

I looked for the man Charles, but he was not
on deck. No doubt it was the fancies put into
my head by the thought of the dead creature

below, which helped my imagination to colour
and accentuate the attitudes and expressions
of the fellows ; but even though the night had
passed as tranquilly as the preceding one, I
must still, though bending the most incurious
eye in the world upon them, have found something
in their varied demeanour to render me
uneasy. There was doggedness and obstinacy
in the plant of the figures swaying upon their
legs to the heave of the deck ; in the arms
squared firmly upon the breast, the rugged wrist
of one hand showing out past the dark half-concealed
knuckles of the other ; in the challenging
glances aft ; in the well-conveyed indifference
to the presence of the master.

The second mate had a very worn and haggard
look. He showed like a man worried to the
heart ; but I think it must have been the shock
of Bothwell's murder that paled and lengthened
his face, for he had used the sea for too many
years, and had lived too closely with sailors,
to be scared to the degree that his visage
and manner now indicated by mere mutinous
muttering and loafing, insolent attitudes. As
to old Breakwater, it was quite impossible for

p 2

him to look gaunt ; his purple countenance was
as much a part of him as his ears or his feet,
and he would die with it on him as a negro dies
with a black skin. But the incidents of the
night had done their work with him nevertheless.
The arch over each eye was sharper ; in
quiet times this would have made him appear
as though labouring under astonishment, but
there were other features and other expressions
to lift this aspect of surprise into a look of
savage consternation. Had I viewed him
without knowing what was the matter, I should
have imagined that he had been on deck day
and night for a week, exposed to violent and
dangerous weather, during which his mind had
been heavily strained by anxiety.

There was a man named Daniel Latona,
another half-blood, as I supposed, standing at
the wheel, and I could have laughed outright
at the pat fit of the fellow's face to the circumstances
of the time ; for though I dare say he
may have been at bottom as steady, respectable,
and sober a creature as one could wish to see
in a ship's forecastle, yet he was so confoundedly
ugly, with his flat nose, the nostrils whereof

were stretched past the Ene of his eyes, his
wide mouth and negro fulness of Hps, his coal-black,
long, streaky Indian hair, low forehead
and complexion of saffron, the whole topped
off by the sieve-like pitting of smallpox, that
one might have searched every shipping-yard
in Great Britain without meeting with a
fellow better qualified by his looks to
stand at the brig's helm in this particular
juncture.

Suddenly Breakwater made some observation
to Gordon, and walked aft. The boatswain
called out, " Forward there ! Send Charles aft,
one of you ! " but there was a half-heartiness in
his way of singing out that made one feel he
regarded the captain's command as purposeless
and ridiculous.

The fellows lounging about the foremast
looked round to the hail, but only quitted their
posture to that extent. No one called to
Charles, no one even approached the scuttle todo
so.

'' D'ye hear what I say, men ? " repeated
Gordon, but in the same half-spirited tone, as
though the bother of this time had taken most

of the manhood out of him ; " one of you tell
Charles that the captain wants him aft."

'' Charles has got notion to do with us," cried
back one of the fellows huskily ; '' if the capt'n
wants him, he knows where to find him."

Breakwater bawled from the station he
occupied near the wheel, " What are they
a-saying, Mr. Gordon ? What are they a-saying,
sir ? "

The boatswain replied, "If we want the half-blood,
we must call him ourselves."

Send all hands aft ! send all hands aft ! "
shouted Breakwater furiously, stepping forward
by half-a-dozen angry strides, and then halting,
with his chest rising and falling to his passionate
breathing, that was not all pure wrath either, for
I could y^-^/ the irresolution that lay under all
this show of temper, and guessed that but very
little likely to prove useful to us could follow
on any intentions he might have in his mind.

The boatswain instantly roared out, *' Lay aft
all hands ! " in much such a hurricane note ashe
would have delivered in a gale of wind,
in summoning all hands to reef topsails.

My heart beat fast now, I confess, for the

men's refusal to obey this order would signify
mutiny ; and though from the first hour of my
climbing aboard the Iron Crown I had been
apprehensive of grievous trouble in this way,
now that it had come to look as if the thing
was about to happen, I was as much agitated
as though I had never given it a thought, and
it had broken upon us on a sudden. Judge,
then, of my relief, when I saw the knot of men
gathered about the foremast leisurely make
their way aft with a shambling, devil-may-care
gait for the most part ; one or two with a half
grin, which was less suited to my taste than the
mulish, sullen countenances the others carried.
The captain, leaning forwards and backwards
on his curved legs to the swing of the ship, his
arms up and down, his hands clenched to the
appearance of small rounds of beef, his cap
jammed so tightly down upon his head that the
upper rounds of his ears forked out with the
pressure, stood fixedly regarding the sailors as
they approached. Meanwhile the boatswain
had gone forward, and picking up a handspike,
thumped the deck heavily with it, whilst with
his head overhanging the scuttle — by which I

would have you understand the Httle forecastle-hatch
through which the men emerged from,
or dropped into their quarters — he delivered a
second leather-lunged roar of " All hands lay
aft!" emphasizing his cry with a further smiting
of the deck with his bar, which he then threw
down. This done, he came away, and stood a
little abaft the main-rigging, the captain having
posted himself abreast of the companion-hatch.
In a few moments the rest of the men who
were in the forecastle tumbled up, hoisting
themselves out with their elbows, and vaulting
lightly on to the deck, with a sailor's enjoyment
of an incident that at least gave them something
else to think of than the cheerless,
laborious routine of the ship's work.

The sun was now risen, and some degrees
above the horizon. It was half-past four in the
morning, maybe later ; one takes no particular
account of time in such passages as these. The
warm breeze blew steadily, and the brig buzzed
softly over the blue hills of swell, which, as they
ran into the south-east quarter, lifted the molten
silver of the sun's reflection upon their broad
shoulders in regular procession, till the white

dazzle there was as blinding as a glance at the
luminary himself. I had often read of difficulties
of this kind happening at sea, but never
been brought face to face with the reality ; and
I remember thinking, as I stood on the larboard
side of the vessel, close against the quarter-boat,
and ran my eye over the group that had
come to a stand a little abaft the mainmast,
that though the perils of the deep be many,
some frightful, and all of them formidable, the
worst of them, ay, even fire itself, must yield in
horror to mutiny — where men arm themselves
against their fellows, where the passions of
undisciplined minds are let loose, where tyrannic
authority and bitter grievance come in conflict,
and where the struesfle is inflamed and rendered
wilder than anything of a like sort could ever
become ashore through the forecastle perception
that, the bad business once entered upon,
there is no mercy to be expected in the event
of failure, no hope to be cherished should
rebellion prove successful. In disaster men
work together for their lives ; in mutiny they
work together for their own destruction. The
sweep of the sparkling sea-line round about us

was like the compression of the very spirit
of loneliness into our little brig. There was
nothing to help the eye, to ease, by a solitary
detail of discipline, the perturbation excited by
the scene. On board an Indiaman, for instance,
there would have been mates and midshipmen
in plenty, loyal to the commander ; with an
array of passengers, maybe, in whose fidelity
one could count in the name of self-concern.
It would be strange, too, if the whole of a big
ship's company should prove disaffected ; so
that the quarter-deck might reckon at least on
the negative services of a portion of the crew.
But if yonder crowd, gathered about the mainmast,
and staring with mingled derision and
hate at the square, round-legged, red faced man
whose lifted brows and whistling mouth put the
expression of a gape into his countenance,
broke into revolt, what should our case prove ?
I counted ten of them, and the man who
steered would make eleven, and Charles, who
skulked below, twelve. Twelve reckless fellows,
with the scent of the assassin's knife fresh in
their nostrils, with instincts and yearnings
perhaps made devilish by the memory of a

usage of which I as a passenger must needs
have seen but a very little part, though I had
witnessed enough to convince me that had I
been of their company, and suffered as they
had, my resentment would surely not have left
me among the hindmost of them in the posture
they now exhibited !

The picture was as nautical as the most
ardent lover of ocean-pieces could desire. The
men were variously attired : in blue dungaree
in patched canvas breeches — in half-boots,
and coloured shirts which revealed their brawny
breasts bare to the dark moss upon them — here
a round hat, there a sour-wester, and around
every sailor's waist was the narrow sea-belt,
with a sheath of leather upon the hip, holding,
convenient to the grasp, the black haft of a
dagger-shaped knife. The shadows of the
rigging crawled upon them, as the vessel, with
a little humming of water at her bow, floated,
with cradling swings, from one sapphire knoll
to another ; not a feature but had the true
oceanic colour : the coils of rigging swinging at
the belaying-pins ; the big scuttle-butt securely
seized under the high bulwark ; the little white

caboose with its head of black chimney whence
blew a vein of blue smoke ; the yellow long-boat
amid ships snugged under the spare booms,
with a black snout projecting from the sty
under it ; and a darting and withdrawal beyond
of the heads of cocks and hens glancing like
red rags as they showed and vanished through
the bars of the coops. Aloft, swelling gently,
rose courses and topsails to the little royal,
with a breezy stir of shadows in the hollows,
and a pearly curve sunwards where the bosom,
arching beyond the bolt-rope, caught the full
splendour shining out of the east.

Breakwater pulled off his hat, dried his
forehead, covered himself afresh, and approached
the men by half-a-dozen paces.

'ris the man Charles among ye ?" said he ;
*' if so, let him step out, for it's him I want, not
your

Of course he knew perfectly well that the
half-blood did not form one of that little crowd.
Perhaps he meant to convey that he had not
deigned to glance at the fellows ; but this was
absurd, for every man as he stepped aft must
have observed that the captain watched him asa

terrier does an approaching rat. One or two
of them glanced over their shoulders, as though
believing that the half-blood had come from the
forecastle. No answer was returned to Broad-water's
inquiry.

*' Now, look here, men," he continued, with
an air of bluster which I hoped would not
increase upon him, " you know, of course, that
Charles committed murder this morning by
stabbing the mate, who lies a dead body in his
bunk below ; and you likewise know that for
an act of this kind, when he gets ashore, he'll
be hung up by the neck, and left to dangle
there till his bones blow away. Now, as he's a
murderer, it's my duty to put him in irons, and
keep him under hatches till I'm able to hand
him over to the people employed by the law to
sentence and strangle him, and all such folks ashe.
D'ye see, men ? " with a powerful flourish
of his arm, and a slight increase of bluster, as
though he was gaining in spirit from the air of
attention with which the sailors seemed to listen
to him. " We don't want no difficulties.
Aboard sue everything has always been plain
sailing, and up to the knocker. My mate lies

a dead man, and I want the chap as killed
him."

He paused, running his eye over them.
Two or three of the crew gave their heads a
quick shake, but none of them spoke.

The man," proceeded Breakwater, " is
lying snugged away in the fo'k'sle. Now, look
ye here, my lads. There need be no trouble
about it at all. All that you've got to do is
just to remain where you are, whilst me and
the second mate fetches him — seeing that he
won't come under milder persuasions."

I thought by the manner of the men that
they hung in the wind, and would let the captain
have his way. He must have fancied this also,
for he started to walk to the forecastle with a
gesture of his hand to the boatswain ; but, ere
he could get one leg fair before the other, a tall,
powerfully-built seaman flung himself with a
stride or two upon the line of deck which the
captain was about to measure, and cried out,
'stop, sir! no murder ! We don't mean to let
you have the man."

If Breakwater had been shot through the
heart, the arrest of his movements could not



have been more spasmodic and utter. Rage
once again rendered him speechless, and the
rush of blood to his head darkened his purple
countenance into an almost livid complexion.
Half-a-dozen sailors thrust up and formed about
the man who had spoken. Their looks were so
threatening, that I dreaded in Breakwater the
least gesture that might be mistaken as
combative by the fellows. The boatswain came
to the side of the old man, who, gasping for
breath, and as voiceless as a person in a fit,
fell back step by step till he had put some
half-dozen yards between him and the crew, by
which time he had recovered his voice ; but I
protest, had I not looked at him and observed
his lips to move, that I should not have known
him by his tones. He raised his arm, and
shook his clenched fist at the tall sailor.

*' Your name's Terence Mole," he said. " If
it should cost me every shilling I'm worth so to
punish ye for this ere job as to keep ye cursing
your mother's memory day and night for ever
having bore you, I'll spend it! If, to have ye
punished for this, it should oblige me to tear
the shirt off my back and pawn it for more law

yet to crush you with, I'd do It, and go naked
for the rest of my time, and die easy ! You
scoundrel ! "

He fell speechless again, with another mad
brandishing of his arms towards the tall sailor.
The man watched him with a cold, insolent
grin. One of the crew exclaimed, " Soft words,
master, soft words. Ye want that there man
Charles, and we don't mean to let ye have
him."

The boatswain, with a glance at the captain,
turned upon the crew. " Lads," he exclaimed,
"consider what you're a-doing of! In protecting
this here murderer you're making yourselves
parties to his crime ; and though I don't
know much about shore-going law, I can't
question that your abetting of the villain may
end in stringing most of ye up alongside of
him ; whilst it should signify transportation for
life to the rest of ye."

'' Mr. Gordon," answered the tall seaman
Mole, ** we've turned the matter over, and
we've made up our minds not to let the man
Charles suffer, leastways aboard this brig, for
his act. He's rid us of a devil," he pronounced

the word with a sudden snap of the teeth,
and if he hadn't done it some one else would ;
though it was for him. bv rights, to make a
beginning, seeing how he was served," he
pointed with a dark thumb in the direction of
the foremast, "merely for commiserating: the
fate of a drownded shipmate. If the capt'n"s
flesh an" blood, so are we. We're willing
enough to listen to reason, but so long as we
continue to be the crew of this here brier,
Charles don't go into irons ; nor shall we allow
him to be punished in any other way."

With that he folded his arms, rearing his
figure erect, and angrily staring at the captain.
The boatswain turned to Breakwater as much
as to say, " Speak, sir, speak. You hear what
the man says." The old fellow swung on his
heel and walked aft, and stood with his hands
behind him gazing seawards. The men fell to
talking among themselves, and there was a
laugh or two, but the hilarity had a very false
ring, and was instantly checked by a growling
''Dowse it, you fool, dowse it I '' I observed
some of the seamen regarding me, but I pretty
well understood that by this time they knew

VOL. I. Q

that whatever might be my sympathies they
assuredly did not incHne towards the cabin end
of the ship. Besides, I had a right to listen
and look on at all events, and leaning against
the rail, with my hands in my pockets, I kept
my eyes fixed on them, unmoved by their
gaze.

Although Breakwater scarcely remained a
minute abaft the wheel, the time seemed so
long that I believed that he intended the men
should break up and go forward of their own
accord, without giving himself the trouble of
dismissing them. But I was mistaken. He
suddenly wheeled round and came along at a
rapid pace, abruptly stopping however at some
distance from the crew.

It's your intention, then," he shouted, 'not
to allow me to clap this murderer in irons and
lock him up ? "

You heard what was said," one of them
exclaimed.

Mr. Gordon ! " he suddenly roared, " forwards
with us both ! By the thunder of heaven,
we'll have a try for the bloody villain, let follow
what will ! "

I saw him tweak at the band of his trousers
with the motion of a man who girds himself for
an affray, then make a spring. The men closed
in a wall before him. He struck at them, but
I could not see that his blows were returned ;
they did no more than to press upon him and
drive him backwards. Gordon threw his arms
around the old fellow's waist to drag him away.
Sickened and horrified by the scene, I ran to
assist the boatswain, dreading lest one of the
many blows which the old fellow was raining
might lead to a general onslaught on him,
and grasped his right arm, and in a few moments
we had hauled him clear of the crew, at whom
the boatswain continued shouting, as together
we pulled the skipper aft, '' For God's sake, go
forward, men ! for God's sake, go forward ! "

Q 2

BROADWATER PROVES OBSTINATE.

We got Breakwater, wheezing, panting, and
gasping, to the cabin skylight, upon which we
forced him to sit, not a Httle blown ourselves by
our uncommon exertions ; by which time the
crew had broken up as advised by the boatswain,
and were going forward in twos and threes
quietly enough. Breakwater sat for some minutes
without offering to speak ; when he had
got his breath again, he flung off the skylight
and ran below with the swiftness and gestures
of a madman.

'this is a bad business — a bad business,
sir," said Gordon, speaking in a voice full of
concern.

The deuce of it is," I exclaimed, " the captain
has not the least idea how to act. The
men are wildly to blame — no doubt of that ; it

is monstrous that British seamen should sympathize
with a murderer and a foreigner ; but I
am certain, from signs of a disposition I took
notice of in them as they stood together yonder,
that were the master of this vessel any other
man than Breakwater, the sailors might easily
be brought over."

'' I know it, sir — I know it," he cried bitterly.
They began well. Had they been properly
used they would have gone on and ended well.
But though the man's dead I don't mind saying,
Mr. Musgrave, that a crueller mate never walked
a ship's deck than Mr. Bothwell. 'Wasn't only
the words he'd use, 'twas the insulting tone of
them — like coating with poison the knife you
stab with. The brutal terms cut to the men's
hearts, and lay festering there, sir, with the recollection
of the fellow's voice and looks. Ye
understand me ? It rose above the half-blood's
restraint. A horrid murder, Mr. Musgrave,
but it don't surprise me."

What weill Breakwater do ? "

He threw a glance down the skylight and exclaimed,
'i'm afraid whatever he does'll be
wrong."

'' But what would you advise, Mr. Gordon ?
There is a lady below, remember ; I am responsible
for her safety ; if for her sake only, this
trouble should be speedily ended by some decisive
course of action."

'' Why, sir, seeing how matters stand," he answered
— 'the mate dead, his murderer screened
by the men, the crew in a state of mutiny,
the captain ought to head fair for Madeira — 'tis
the nearest point, where no doubt he'd get help
from the shore, if so be there was no English or
foreign man-of-war riding there."

"Certainly," I cried; "that should be his
plan ! There is no man forward, I suppose, capable
of guessing the captain's intentions by a
change of course ? "

The change would be too small to take their
notice," he responded. " But suppose they did
guess what he was at, they'd make no difficulty
about it — at least whilst their feelings remain as
they are now. They hate the vessel, and 'ud be
glad of a chance to get away from her, though
the road to their liberty lay through a jail."

Have you suggested this notion to the
captain ? "

*' I told him," he answered, *' when him and
me were talking before sunrise about the mate's
murder, that if the men continued to give trouble,
or broke out into regular mutiny, there'd be certainly
nothing for it but to head for Madeira."

*' What did he say ? "

'' Cursed and swore, sir. ' Sooner than be
driven to Madeira by my crew,' he says, I'd
cut away the brig's masts, and let her lie where
she is,' he says, ' till she's growled unrecognizable
for barnacles ! ' But," he added, '' now that he's
seen the sort of attitude the men have put themselves
into he may change his ideas and agree
with me."

'was there ever such a bigoted old fool ?"
I cried. *' Did ever one hear of so rum-soddened
a dolt placed in such a confoundedly responsible
position as that of master of a ship before ? I
only wish he were as ignorant of navigation ashe
is of human nature and the art of treating
sailors : I'd run him then myself to Madeira,
and he shouldn't know where he was bound to
until the island was hove up green over the bow.
What is the stupid idiot to do if the hands,
barring yourself, are against him ? " I continued

talking hotly, out of the fit of nervous Irritability
that had seized me. " And what does he mean
by saying that he would sooner cut away his
masts than haul in for the island and the protection
it would afford him ? Confound the
fellow ! Does he suppose that the lady and I
parted with our money for the privilege of shipping
in a sheer hulk ? "

Well, sir," said Gordon, '' I essay if ye put
it to him warmly he'll listen to ye. If not to
you, to nobody else for certain, sir. There's too
much feeding mixed up with the brains in his
head ; and the machinery's got clogged and
don't travel properly, spite of his being incessantly
greasing of it with liquor. And what's he
going to do about the watches, I wonder ? Why,
it must be drawing on for six o'clock, and here
have I been on deck since midnight." He
dodged about the skylight In his efforts to command
a view of the cabin, to see if the captain
were there. '' There's ne'er a man more willing
to do his bit than me," he said, *' but it ain't in
flesh and blood to keep all on watching and
notion else."

*' If he likes to make you his chief mate, and

me his second," said I, " I shall be quite willing
to fill the berth, and take watch and watch with
you. I shouldn't set myself up as your match,
Gordon, of course ; but if I couldn't trim sail
with old Broad-ater, or take sights, or note a
change of wind, or mark the head of a growing
squall with him, he shall tell me I can't distinguish
the difference between the sheet of
his trysail and the hanks of his standing jib."

Put it to him, sir ; put it to him," cried the
boatswain, rubbing his hands with a small
emotion of glee in his worried face. " I tell
you what, sir, if the capt'n 'ud make you acting
second mate — unbecoming as such a post would
be for a gentleman like you to occupy — I allows
that the appointment 'ud go further to reconcile
the men to the brig, and to the voyage, than all
the excuses the capt'n could make for himself,
and all the wisest sort of kindness he'd be
capable of showing 'em. Of course they knows
that you have been a sailor, sir."

'' How ? " I asked.

"Why," he replied, "I told them. Next,
they're aware that the man Charles was saved
from spending the night lashed to the foremast

by your and the lady's entreaties and threats to
leave the ship. That bit of news was brought
forwards by Billy the cabin-boy ; likewise by the
chap whose trick It was at the wheel when the
lady spoke to the capt'n about the half-blood.
Depend upon It, sir," he added emphatically,
"that If you should be made second mate, or,
better still, chief mate, the men 'ud feel so satisfied
to know they'd got a gentleman to officer
them, that I'm confident they'd give no further
trouble this side of Rio. Will you put it to the
capt'n, sir ? "

'' Certainly I will," I replied, struck by the poor
fellow's eagerness, though my fancy hung much
less In this direction than In a desire to urge
Breakwater to make promptly for Madeira.

I left the honest creature and went below,
pretty shrewdly guessing that Miss Grant lay
all this while sleepless in her cabin, and was in
bad need of the encouragement of a chat. I
also wished to meet Breakwater, that I might
tackle him whilst I was in the mood to pitch my
key to any sort of note that he might choose to
strike. Billy the cabin-boy, with his lank, yellow
hair dangling over his eyes, was on his

knees working with a deck-scraper at the dark
and ugly stain at the foot of the companion-steps
; but blood lies upon wood as upon the
human conscience ; its sacred magic, its preternatural
quality of staining, is no more to be
neutralized in timber by the scraper, than in the
murderer's mind by the parson. 'Twas mallet
and chisel that the lad needed, and even with
them the cleansing of the plank might have
ended in a hole in the deck, gaping to the uttermost
outline of the horrid blot. I felt a little
creeping in my skin as I passed the boy, but
then I was desperately bothered, and the eyes of
my imagination were out of gear, so that little
things put on ugly forms, and through distortion
of aspect were cruelly suggestive and abominably
significant.

I listened a moment at bliss Grant's cabin-door,
and very sofdy knocked, by no means desiring
to disturb her should she be asleep. She
instantly asked who it was that knocked ; I
answered and she came out. She was fully
dressed, robed in jacket and hat for the deck.

I am glad you have come to me," she exclaimed
; 'but you see I have dutifully obeyed

your orders. I would not even enter the cabin,
though you would imagine how dull, expectant,
miserable, I felt alone — listening, waiting,
dreading I cannot tell you what — in this
gloomy little box."

I took her hand and conducted her to the
cabin, and she seemed to lift her head like a
drooping lily to the refreshment of water as she
entered an atmosphere bright with the sparkling
of the sun flowing full upon the skylight,
and crawling in sheets of gold upon the bulkheads
and deck. She looked with attention at
the lad at work under the hatch, as though she
wondered what he was doing ; then, understanding,
she partly turned her back upon him
with a manner that was like dismissing the perception
of the meaning of the fellow's labour
from her memory.

What have you got to tell me ? " she asked,
seating herself, and resting her chin in the palms
of her hands, whilst she Qfazed at me from under
the shadow of her broad straw hat with such
a spirit of resolution in her eyes, that I saw
she had prepared herself for the darkest
disclosures.

I related exactly all that had happened during
the time I had been on deck, and was in
the midst of repeating my recent conversation
with the boatswain when she slightly coughed,
with a significant glance past me. I looked,
and saw Breakwater coming from his cabin.
He stood near the boy a moment or two
watching him, then gave the lad a kick that
threw him on to his face.

'away with ye!" he cried. "Scraping indeed
! It's bottle-washing that's in your line,
you young scaramouch ! Off with ye for a broom,
and collect these here shavings, and tell the cook
to get the cabin-breakfast ready by six bells."

The boy picked himself up, and mounted the
ladder. Breakwater turning to me said, " An
all-night job regularly sets me pining for food,
long afore I should feel the need of It after a
proper allowance of sleep." I thought to myself,
Shall I begin with the fellow at once, or wait
till he has broken his fast ? A meal might
make him more sensible, render him more
tractable ; but my present mood was an opportunity
I ought not to miss ; and then time was
exceedingly precious. So I began :

Captain Breakwater, unless you are going
on deck to relieve the boatswain, who has had
charge since midnight "

He interrupted me by saying in his roughest
manner, '' Mr. Musgrave, the discipline of
the Iron Crown's my affair. Don't, I beg
of you, give yourself any trouble about it,
sir."

'' Then sit down," said I, warmly and sternly,
'' for if the discipline of the vessel is your affair,
this lady's safety is 7nme / So now, sir, give me
your attention, for you will find that I am more
in earnest than even the most rebellious of your
men forward." He did not offer to sit, but
contented himself with watching me. '' First,"
I went on, "what do you mean to do ?"

Wait, sir, and you'll see."

'' No," I cried, bringing my hand down with
a sounding whack upon my thigh ; " that answer
will not satisfy me. Captain Breakwater. The
crew are in a state of mutiny ; your mate lies
murdered ; the only living creature aboard that
you can depend on is your bo'sun, and even /le
may fail you — honest to the bottom of his soul
as I know him to be — for he is no more than a

foremast hand, though he holds a responsible
position under you. Now listen, sir. As matters
stand, this lady and I are in peril of our
lives. Your duty is not only to give us every
encouragement, but to make haste to obtain
such assistance as shall deliver us, as Vv'ell as
yourself and vessel, from the heavy dangers
which threaten us. Therefore I demand to
know what you mean to do ? "

He eyed me with the same kind of doggedness
I had noticed in some of his men when he
was addressing them ; was silent for a space
after I had ceased, and then said, "What was
your object in hiring cabins in this brig ? "

"The passage to Rio."

Right ! And I'm carrying you to Rio.
That's the part you paid my owner for me to
perform, and I'll do it."

But," I cried, " how is it possible that you
can carry your vessel to Rio with a crew who
have already distinctly mutinied by refusing to
surrender your mate's murderer to you ? "

"The Lord spare me!" he roared out. "If
I ain't bound to Rio where else am I a-going ? "

"See here," said I, determined to make him

understand by my manner that I was In earnest,
*' you must be perfectly well aware that as matters
are you will never succeed In carrying your
ship to Rio. A moment, If you please ! The
crew have rebelled to a man, and have defied
you. You know It ! The respect you might
have obtained you have forfeited, and they
laugh at your commands. You know that too !
By protecting the half-blood they share in his
crime, and every fellow in your ' forecastle is
therefore an assassin at heart. And you mean
to tell me that, all this being as I say, you will
be able to complete a voyage which may run
us into two or three months, but which Is as
yet but a week old only ? "

'' Certainly ! " he cried ; " we're bound to Rio,
and I mean to keep all on till we get there."

If that be so," said I vehemently, " this
lady and I decline to proceed with you."

Decline to proceed ! " he shouted, evidently
misunderstanding me.

*eyes, sir," I answered, shouting too. 'ewe
insist upon your steering the brig for the island
of Madeira. The place Is within a few days'
sail. I don't doubt that the crew would cheerfully

help you to navigate the vessel there.
They loathe the brig as much as they dislike
you, and would exult in their release, even if it
came to their going ashore in irons. Therefore,
Captain Breakwater, as you are in no condition
to continue the voyage to Rio, I must Insist, by
virtue of my rights as a passenger, and of the
claim that this lady has upon my protection, that
you shape your course without any further loss
of time for madeira."

He breathed hard, then raised his fist and
brought It down with a mighty whack upon the
table. His face was dark with passion, his little
eyes reeled as they took me In from head to
foot. " Sooner than do what you say," he
muttered rather than spoke, '' I'd scuttle the
ship with these hands," lifting them both, "and
send every man-jack of us aboard to the devil."
He backed away, as though he meant to walk
crab-fashion to the companion-ladder, and on a
sudden shouted out, ** You've been a-talking
with the bo'sun, Mr. Musgrave."

And what of that ? " I responded, in a voice
that gave him to know I had lungs enough to
outshone him even if occasion should render

VOL. I. R

such a contest needful. "Am I to understand
that you refuse to head the ship for
Madeira, that Miss Grant and I may go ashore
there, and escape the barbarous perils which
your treatment of the crew is certain to
plunge us into if you persist in continuing
this voyage ? "

Yes," he roared, '' you are to understand it !
you are to understand it a hundred times
over ! My instructions are to carry this ship to
Rio, and sooner than deviate I'll scuttle her!"
and flinging his fist at me, so to speak, with a
loud snap of his fingers, he went with a heavy
lurching tramp up the ladder, growling out fifty
curses in an undertone that reminded me of a
dog gnawing a bone, watched by another.

I looked at Miss Grant. " Of all pig-headed
varlet ! Where," cried I, 'could have been
my eyes, that I was unable to decipher the
old lobster's true nature under his complicated
purple skin when I first met him ? "

"We are confronted with a difficulty, Mr.
Musgrave," she said quietly, mechanically
twisting a ring upon her finger, with thoughtful
eyes fixed upon it, "and we must look at it

calmly, and be patient, and consider what is
best to be done. First of all," she continued,
I am quite certain, from the man's manner,
that you will never induce him to alter his course
for Madeira. And then what follows ? Perhaps
now that the mate is dead the crew will cease
to prove troublesome. Mr. Gordon is a quiet
man, and the sailors appear to like him. Mr.
Musgrave, I believe if this horrid old captain
could only be induced by threats or persuasions
to use his men kindly, the voyage might be
safely continued."

But, unhappily, peace of mind was not to be
obtained by contemplation of merely theoretic
conditions, though I heartily admired her cool
inspection of a difficulty that surely could not
have held less terrors for her than for any other
woman without her heart to oppose it. If
Breakwater was to be terrified into changing
his nature, then no doubt we might reckon upon
a comfortable and pleasant passage. But the
old swaggerer's qualities clung like limpets to
his soul. He was not to be cleansed by any
process I was master of, at all events. The
only hope that I could find lay in Miss Grant's

R 2

suggestion that, the mate being dead, the sailors'
grievances would be diminished to the extent of
the bitter usage he had given them. But the
scene on deck that morning had been too significant
not to fill me with dark and melancholy
misgivings, which were accentuated yet by the
feeling that, let me talk as hotly as I would, and
threaten as clamorously as I chose, I was practically
powerless. I had felt this in the Channel,
and I felt it more violently now that we were
far out upon the surface of the broad Atlantic, at
the disposal of a man whose resolutions there
where no means of thwarting, so far as I was
concerned, unless indeed I sided with the men,
encouraged them to deprive him of the command
of the brig, and sailed her myself back to England
or to the nearest port, leaving the vindication
of my behaviour to the story of cruelty
and peril it would be in my power to relate — a
romantic project indeed, and to be instantly
dismissed !

THE sailor's last TOSS.

I REMAINED wIth MIss Grant In the cabin until
breakfast was served. Our talk referred to
nothing but our situation, as you will suppose.
Before long I found my worry and anxiety
yielding to the influence of her calm yet animated
gaze and clear good sense. Indeed there
is no kind of human encouragement that equals
the feeling a woman can inspire. The moral
help a man will get from the posture and language
of a brave girl is so invigorating that it
will give his heart a new spirit, though there bethe
pulse of a lion in its beat.

Whilst we conversed I heard Breakwater
talking on deck, and it seemed to me as if he
were delivering a harangue ; but I gave it little
heed, being heartily sick of him and the mutinous

disturbances raised by his base old tongue.
There was a sound of scrubbing-brushes getting
along upon the deck overhead, with a noise of
pumping and of water washing about In the
scuppers — assurance, at all events, that the crew
were doing the ship's work. This I bade Miss
Grant take notice of, being now rendered
almost hopeful by the fine cordial Influence of
her intelligent thoughts and by the Inspiriting
power of her smiles, her sparkling regard, the
music of her voice, the resolution of soul
that held her beauty as composed as if she
slumbered.

Punctually at six bells — seven o'clock — the
cabin-boy arrived with the breakfast, and almost
immediately afterwards Breakwater made his
appearance. I had got my cue from Miss Grant,
who had urged me not to question the man, and
above all in conversing with him never to lose
my temper ; so that we had nearly finished the
repast before a single word was uttered by any
of the three of us. The captain gobbled as
heartily as if all had been well with the ship.
In truth, his jaws were so incessantly occupied
that they gave him no chance to utter a syllable.

Then, having somewhat appeased his appetite,
he called for another great cup of black tea,
which he fell to stirring meditatively, with an
occasional lift of his little eyes to mine.

I hope, I\Ir. ]\Iusgrave," said he, forcing an
odd note of rough jocosity into his deep stones,
"that you've sent that there Madeira
scheme of yours adrift. Why, ma'am," he continued,
turning to ]\Iiss Grant, "if so be as I'm
given to understand that Rio's your home — and
Mr. Grant was a gentleman whose name is very
well known to me, very well known to me
indeed — if so be, I says, that Rio's your home,
surely, ma'am, you must be in a hurry to get
there, and wouldn't thank me for carrying out
Mr. Musgrave's proposal to delay the voyage
by calling at ^Nladeiry."

Certainly I am impatient to get to Rio,
Captain Breakwater," she answered, with a half
glance at me, following on the faintest possible
blush rising to her cheeks, and quickly vanishing,
as though it were the shadow of a rose
lifted to her face and dropped again. " But
then it is my impatience that wants me to
make sure of getting there."

He drained his cup and cried, '' Never doubt
it, mum. Give me wind enough to blow us
along, the rest '11 be as easy as swallowing
whiles."

This new manner of confidence in him made
me say, " The behaviour of the crew, I hope,
has improved since sunrise ? "

"Mr. Musgrave," he exclaimed, rising, ''I
have to beg and pray of you, sir, that you'll
allow the behaviour of the crew to be 7?iy
business. Judging from the observations you
let fall this morning. It's middling plain to me
that all that you want is to feel sure that you
and the lady's arrive at Rio. Until, then, you've
got good cause to be alarmed, you've got no
right to tell me what my duty is, how I'm to
treat my crew, and what port it's my business
to head for ! " saying which, he picked up his
cap, and buttoning his coat around him, with
a ludicrous expression of mingled dignity and
self-complacency he went on deck.

A couple of minutes later, not a little to my
surprise, Gordon came down the companion-steps
and stood a moment at the bottom of
them, looking shyly at the table, cap in hand.

He tweaked an imaginary lock of hair on his
forehead at Miss Grant, and exclaimed, with a
nervous laugh, '' Rather a novelty for me, Mr.
Musgrave, sir, to breakfast 'long with ladies and
gents in the land o' knives and forks ; but it's
the capt'n's orders. He's made me chief mate,
and I'm to live down here and take Mr. Bothwell's
cabin — when he's out of it," with a look
at the stain at his feet.

"We are glad to welcome you aft, Gordon,
believe me ! " I cried. " Take that seat. Here's
the teapot — I don't think Breakwater has
emptied it."

He sat down and fell to his breakfast, and I
cannot express to you what a new element of
cheerfulness came into the atmosphere of that
rude old interior out of this sailor's plain, hearty,
honest face and bearing. I was extremely
anxious to get the news, for the captain had
told me nothing, and asked him if anything
fresh had happened on deck since I came below.
He replied, subduing his voice, with a heave
up of his eyes at the skylight, till nothing but
the whites of them showed, that the captain
had called the men aft and made them a speech.

in which he told them that, if they agreed to
go on with their work quietly and give him no
more trouble, he would not insist upon their
surrendering the half-blood, though the fellow
would have to come on deck and share in the
general work as heretofore. Of course, on his
arrival at Rio, he would report the matter, and
leave the rest to the law. That was his duty.
He further told the men that Gordon would
take the place of Mr. Both well, and that he —
that is to say, the captain — would stand watch
and watch with him for the rest of the voyage,
unless, amongst the crew, he should later on
discover a man fit to take the duties of second
mate, when, if the hands consented, he should
be willing to bring him aft. Indeed Gordon
told me that Breakwater talked so soberly to
the sailors that they stared at him and at one
another, as though they suspected some ugly
scheme behind this sudden queer shift of face.
However it ended in their expressing themselves
satisfied ; and Gordon particularly noticed
that when the watch were turned to wash
down, they sprang to the work with the liveliness
of people from whom a shadow and

a burden have been lifted, whilst the watch
below, who went forward to get their breakfast,
exhibited every symptom of surprise and
gratification.

But it's all along of your doing, sir," continued
the boatswain, still speaking in a voice
scarcely raised above a whisper ; "it was that
there demand of yours that he should carry the
ship to Madeiry that worked on the captain.
He came up to me in a passion, and asked me
what I meant by speaking of Madeiry to you ;
but cooled down astonishingly rapid, and, after
taking a few turns by himself, sung out to me
to send the men aft, with the consequence as
I've related. A leery old gentleman, sir, but
what's happened is bound to be well, providing
it ends well."

This sudden change in the captain — though,
like a shift of wind, it might mean only a short
blow from a new quarter, and then a sweep
back into a long howling gale out of the same
old wild point — was a thing to feel grateful for,
when the afternoon came and brought with it
an hour's dead calm — a long wash of muddy
swell heaving from the south-east, and running

a sluggish jumble of folds, round-browed as
domes, with never a ridge in twenty miles of
them to break the monotony of the hump-backed
procession with the sparkling of a glass-clear
head — and then a swift rush of breeze that
swept the foam out of the water as it broke with
a long cry out of the south-east dinginess, and
bowed the brig down to her covering-board.
Breakwater was ready for it. The topgallant-sails
had been furled, the mainsail snugged to
its yard, some fore-and-aft canvas (no need to
be too particular) hauled down, and the topsails
were blowing out from the yards on the caps
with the reef-tackles hauled out, and hands
dancing aloft to knot the points, when the first
of the weather rang between our masts. It
was not a moment when one wanted to think
there was a mutiny aboard. Breakwater helped
the man at the wheel to put the helm hard-weather,
and to the long wash of the Atlantic
swell foaming to the sudden scourging of the
wind, with the sail swelling from the ,
the foresail yearning high as though
it would fly into the rush of shadows overhead,
hands chorusing upon the main, with Gordon's

DO

figure at the weather yard-arm coming out
clean as a pencil-drawing against the soft dark
race past him, the half-blood Charles swinging
upon the flemish horse at his feet, the other
fellows ranged along with many a kick-up abaft
of the foot-ropes as they plunged to the reef-points
curving out of reach as the line of the
band arched to the slings and quarters — the
brig, responding to her helm and to the heavy
leeward drag of her big thunderous jib, gave
her quarter to the tempestuous outfly, and went
with lone seething rolls through it like a sleigh
over falls and risings of snow.

It was blowing so hard presently that they
found the reefed fore-course and topsails with a
stay-foresail and a fragment of trysail as much
as the vessel could carry ; and before long there
was a plentiful washing of water forward, for
she lay now as close to her course as she would
come, and the ridged seas foaming on top of
the backs of the swell brimmed with a roar to
the bow under the larboard bathed, where they
rose In a dazzle of white water, then tumbling
inboard with the clatter of twenty tons of
shingle, and floating coils of the running rigging

up amongst the legs of the men, and converting
locomotion in the waist into sheer floundering.
The men worked briskly and with a will ; indeed
I accepted this burst of weather as a
stroke of Providence, designed to rally the minds
of the crew to their strict business of seafaring,
and to bring old Breakwater to recognition of
the value of willing sailors in the navigation of
a ship — considerations which appeared to have
fallen asleep in the tender breezes that had
fanned us out of the Bay, under clear skies by
day and sparkling constellations by night, down
to the latitude and longitude our keel was now
traversing. Certain it was this half gale — for
it came to that — was dead in the road of
Madeira ; indeed the brig could not have looked
up for the island to within six points ; and methought
as I stood near Breakwater, whilst the
crew were on the foretopsail-yard, that he
turned his eyes from the foaming windward seaboard
to me, as if he would say, '' You see what
chance your Madeiry scheme would have now
This was really the first bit of hard weather
we had yet encountered. The brig proved a
wetter craft than I should have imagined, though

she rose buoyant to each long frothing hill of
brine, with a slant of her spars and a shear of
her cut-water that made you think she had more
of the clipper instincts in her than the mind of
her builder had included in his model. But it
was dreary, weary work — the air on deck wet
with spray and surging down upon you in
volumes that often forced you to turn your back
upon it to fetch a breath, a melancholy clattering
of spare booms forward, the scream
and smoke of water hissing boards through
the scupper-holes, and then draining away
through the same apertures in long lamentable
sobbing, the shrill whistling of the gale
splitting upon the curve of the gray ropes,
the quick roar of it as it flung as with a sound
of cannon from under the foot of the arched
canvas to the weather roll of the masts ; whilst
below it was smaller yet, bulkheads creaking,
cabin-doors ticking like gigantic clocks upon
their hooks and hinges to the regular swaying,
groaning of strained cargo in the hold, and
such a qualification of deck, that having once
fairly brought up on a locker you loathed the
obligation of leaving it.

The storm-shrouded day howled itself steadfastly
onwards into the blackness of night,
when the scene of commotion took a new
character of wildness from the swarming of
sea-fire in the curl of each dark summit, and
in the soft sheet-lightning-like flashes of the
phosphor flying with the water through our
rigging. But though it was a time of discomfort,
it was a time of comparative ease, too,
for it blew all thoughts of mutiny out of one's
head. Recollections of tragedy, anxiety, and
distress seemed to have been washed overboard
by the first sea the brig shipped ; and
Miss Grant said to me that she would be glad
never to see a sunlit day nor a placid night of
moonshine again during the rest of the voyage,
providing the Iron Crown continued to stem
fairly onwards for Rio, and the men remained
quiet, and Breakwater too occupied by the
weather to bluster and bully as of old.

I confess I had forgotten all about the dead
mate, when on returning from a short look
round on deck at about half-past ten — Miss
Grant having withdrawn to her berth an hour
before — I saw Gordon and the cabin-boy staggering

out of one of the foremost cabins,
bearing between them a long white bundle. I
asked the boatswain what it was, and he answered,
" The body of the mate, sir." The
thing, bolster-shape, was stitched up in sailcloth,
and more ghastly, maybe, to the imagination
for lacking suggestion of human
outline.

What are you going to do with it ? " I
asked.

Heave it overboard, sir," answered Gordon.

I might have suspected as much ; yet I could
not make sure that Breakwater would have
dismissed the remains of his factotum without
a benediction.

'' The capt'n wouldn't trust the handling of
him to any of the people forward," said Gordon,
nor bury him by daylight under their noses.
I reckon he's right. This here," said he, with
a look at the burden, at one end of which he
swayed whilst the cabin-boy staggered at the
other, but without the pale consternation In his
face that would have shown in it had the captain
been his assistant, "is still as a red rag to
more than one pair of horns which have sprouted

VOL. I. s

aboard us of late days. Steady, my lad !
Slew round now! I'll go backwards up the
steps, and don't you pull ! "

The brig rolled so heavily that I expected
every moment to see the boatswain plump
down with his ghastly burthen and overset the
boy. They managed to get it on deck however
without mishap, and following, I watched them
from over the edge of the companion-hatch
swing the white thing with a low growling one,
two, THREE ! from Gordon, and send it with a
flash like any one of the sheets of milk-white
foam bursting over the weather-rail into the
dark waters beyond. The sailor's last toss !
I thought, as I re-entered the cabin ; and whose
child had been that negro-headed, handsome-featured
fellow ? The wolfish yell of the wind
high aloft swept to the black orifice of the
hatchway as an answer to the question, and
no icy blast could have struck such a shudder
through me as the chill that trembled from my
hair to my feet to the sudden lighting of my eyes
upon the mahogany-like stain upon the cabin-deck.
One thing on top of another, 'twas almost
enough to make a man feel sorry for the murdered

wretch. If ever a creature was charged
to the gorge with all qualities which go to the
making of a romantic scoundrel, this same Neil
Bothwell had been. Maybe he was born a
little too late ; for the paddle-wheel, if not the
propeller, was even now scooping up all idealism
out of the sea. If the black flags were not
actually hauled down, it was on its way to the
locker, there to moulder ; the Corsair had buried
his jNIedora, and gone to the Isles of Greece
to slink out, oily and Rlthy, upon the sleepy
Turk, or the humming Sicilian. The slaver
alone was active. Yet I never can recall Mr.
Bothwell's woolly head, his chiselled features,
white teeth, and nimble, sparkling eyes, along
with the dark brutality of his nature, his piratical
voice and venomous language, without
feeling persuaded that the knife of the half-blood
had cut short a career which, in its
continuance, despite the crimson cross and the
grinning teeth of the British frigate, must
have supplied the naval writer with many fruitful
and astonishing themes.

That miserable stain made the atmosphere
ot the cabin feel as bleak as a vault on a

s 2

December night ; and though we were supposed
to be in warm parallels, I could not have
snugged me in my blankets with heartier relish
of the clinging comfort of them had the gale been
splitting upon frozen rigging, and the blackness
upon the sea dashed with the iceberg's spectral
tinge of faintness.

This dirty weather troubled us for four
days. It seemed to have blown the ocean
clear of ships and birds, for we sighted nothing,
whether winged with canvas or feathers. All
day long 'twas the same steadfast rush of the
surge, green as bottle-glass, freckled with the
foam flying from the champing courser in advance,
lifting a head of melting white to the
sullen slate of the shadow overlaying the sky ;
with once — it was on the second evening — a
fierce sunset of smoking crimson, red spokes
of a dingy brightness cleaving the black scud
and the boiling, angry haze of the west, and
touching the unmirroring welter into spaces
of a rusty blood-like colour, as though — and
the fancy was Miss Grant's — each beam of
coarse effulgence were a material weapon darted
by some mighty hand on high, and making the

ocean bleed to the thrust ; followed by a sort
of melting out of the sun into a brief, shapeless
running as of molten ore low upon the
sea-line, where the billows leapt black against
it ; till the gale, like some baffled, sentient
thing, stormed up afresh with a long victorious
yelling in its western flight, crowding cloud
upon cloud there with such rapid smothering
of the tarnished hectic, that In a few moments
you knew not where to look for the place
behind which the luminary had foundered.

Then followed several days of fair weather,
and If It had not been for a lurking feeling of
uneasiness, a sense of trouble Impending, I believe
I should have found enjoyment enough in
this time to fully compensate me for the worries
and anxieties I had suffered. For three successive
days a pleasant wind from the north and
east blew almost directly over our stern ; and the
brig, with studding-sails overhanging the water
far out on either side of her, and soothingly
cradled by a subdued heave of liquid fold, as
regular as a pulse, and soft as the rise and fall
of a sleeper's breast, floated steadily on her
course, irradiating the blue of the surge with

silver reflection from her extended canvas,
whilst the short wake streamed off white as a
looking-glass, as though indeed the lines of
dark ripples breaking from the bow shivered
spaces of the translucent sheen under the
swinging booms into fragments, which veering
aft occasioned the lovely metallic shining which
you noticed in the furrow under the counter.
Already from the slope of the rolling brows of
dark blue brine the flying-fish were whisking
in short, uncertain flights ; the swinish outline
of the porpoise rose black and wet to the flash
of the sun ; afar the snow-white spire of a
ship's canvas would break the melancholy
continuity of the sea-line. Our shadows shortened
at noon, and so fair was the course we
headed that the eye had almost the accuracy
of the sextant in determining the period of the
meridian, by observing the wake of the luminary
rising and falling in a fan-shaped stream of
gold transversely from the horizon to our larboard
bathed.

One scarcely needed the comforts of the
pleasure vessel to have found it all as full of
such delights as go to a yachting cruise, if the

rest had been as well as sea and sky and
atmosphere. But, first of all, there was
Captain Breakwater again. Now that the dirty
sky had been blown away, and the shrill dark
gale transformed into a steady gushing of fair
blue sunlit breeze, warm as a woman's breath,
and filled with the aroma of a thousand leagues
of ocean, the reckless old man had warped his
mind back to its old moorings, and was once
more falling foul of the men, often as I would
think without reason, or, when justified, then
always with coarse and needless temper. But
that was not all. The half-blood Charles was
about the deck — for I must tell you, now that
we where regularly at sea it was "all hands," as
the term goes, from eight bells in the morning
down to four o'clock in the afternoon, with an
interval of an hour from half-past eleven for
dinner ; and consequently it was impossible to
put your head through the companion-hatch
without, after a bit, seeing the half-blood at
work, sometimes on the rigging, sometimes with
a marline-spike on deck, but most often stitching
at sailcloth stretched along the waist. It was
not only the knowing that he was a murderer

that regularly affected me with a violent stir of
emotion every time my eye lighted on him,
though I should see him twenty times in a day ;
it was the shock also, at least to my notion of
shipboard discipline, to the marine habits of
thought I had carried away with me from my
early voyagings, coming from perception of his
being at large, when without doubt he should
be in irons below, and of the liberty he was
now enjoying being the will of the crew. My
abhorrence of Breakwater's early usage of him
could in nowise temper my loathing of the olive-coloured
dastard's act. Of course, the crime of
which the fellow had been guilty might well
make one suspect a deeper significance in every
action, gesture, and speech of his than they in
reality possessed ; but sometimes, in watching
him furtively over the top of a book, or whilst
conversing with Miss Grant, when he was not
too far off for his features to be inexpressive, I
would get it into my head that if ever the swift,
askant glance of a human eye indicated treachery
and black resolution, matured and waiting only,
his did whenever Breakwater's approach courted
a glance from under his dusky, drooping lids at

the old fellow. I reasoned thus : I said to myself,
this man being guilty of murder, albeit he
has his freedom in the brig — the liberty of a bird
in a cage ! — is fully aware that the gallows awaits
him on his arrival in port, and that the person
who will make it his especial business to procure
his prompt despatch is that same red-faced, hectoring,
noisy, and tyrannous skipper, at whom,
when he imagines himself unperceived, he darts
as malignant a glance as ever I witnessed in
mortal eyes. What then! Is it reasonable to
suppose that yonder half-blood intends to resignedly
suffer himself to be carried to Rio, and
on the testimony of the depositions of that shipmaster
there, whom he abhors, to suffer with
his life for his deed ? Then I would say to
myself, But what is he to do ? Certainly he
cannot prevent the master from navigating
the brig to her South American destination.
Does he contemplate suicide as his only chance
of escaping the executioner ? He is under the
protection of the crew ; has he any influence
with them ? Assuming that he has, what use
can he make of it ? Thus would I sometimes
speculate, Idly indeed ; yet the thoughts that

occurred to me were of a kind to rob the smooth
ocean of its placidity, and the gay picture of the
brig, brilliant with the serene splendour of the
heavens, of something of its beauty.

However, I kept my thoughts to myself. I
took care that Miss Grant should have no suspicion
of what was passing in my mind, nor
did I utter a word on the subject to Gordon,
mainly because I felt the whole thing was
mere foreboding, and that discussion of it
could therefore serve no end.

WE SAIL THROUGH A STRANGE LIGHT.

I REMEMBER it was on the third night of this
gentle weather that I was quietly walking up
and down the deck with Miss Grant's hand
lying lightly on my arm. Four bells had not
been long struck. The night was dark, but exceedingly
beautiful, with a tropical richness of
starlight that yet, though to the eye it showed
like a wide fine rain of silver light, suffered
the sea to heave black to the confines of the
hovering firmament — not a break or glance of
foam anywhere, not the tiniest sparkle of the
sea-glow, albeit with my companion I had
overhung the quarter for many minutes to
watch for any greenish cloudy rising, any yellow
fibrous shooting ; for of all oceanic midnight
sights nothing delights me so keenly as the

movement of phosphoric swarming in the quiet
ebon brine, when the vessel has just way enough
to stir the Quid blackness into shining configurations
of all sorts along her sides, and to
mark her passage by a jewel-like trailing of
luminous bells of foam, and the emerald glare of
misty puffs of fire. The brig, with studding-sails
out on either side, was floating through the
shadow of the night at some four or five miles
in the hour. Her wide stretch of canvas rose
pallid to the gloom, and died upon the eye in
mere films and spaces of faintness ere the sight
could penetrate to the forms of the little sails
which crowned the stone-coloured pyramid-all
was silent — every cloth aloft was asleep.
Under the black arches of the distended
canvas the stars would come and go to
the movement of the fabric, like eyes of
invisible shapes, peering an instant over
the edge of the yards down upon the dim
glimmer of the brig's decks. Gordon was
in charge. I had killed half-an-hour sometime
before with him in talk, but when Miss
Grant arrived I paired off with her, and left
my hearty friend to fill the interval betwixt

the wheel and the main-rigging with lonely
meditations.

I do not mind owning here, that on such
a night as this it was not very easy to check in
myself something of those sentimental thoughts
concerning my fascinating companion which had
bothered me, as I have elsewhere said, at an
earlier date, and which no doubt would have
continued to worry and vex me down to this
hour, but for the murder of the mate and the
posture of the crew. The quiet weather, and
the apparent peace in the brig during the last
three days, had enabled us to be much together
on deck again, and to converse on subjects of a
kind very different from assassination on shipboard,
and the perils of passengers in vessels
worked by mutinous sailors. Indeed, the long
and short of it is, as we stepped the deck
together this night, I felt that if our voyage to
Rio should be long delayed, it must infallibly
end in my falling in love with Miss Aurelia. It
would not do to call the emotion a disloyalty to
my cousin. What must happen cannot be
helped, and there is nothing in philosophy to
balk the issue, though it may teach one how to

support it. The utmost I could hope to do was
to disguise my feelings, quit Rio as promptly as
the shipping there would suffer, and leave the
rest to old Time with his brush and whitewash.
Still the position was an exceedingly uncomfortable
one, and it was likely to endure long
enough to render me very unhappy. For in
those days I was a young man with the heart
and sensibilities of youth ; and to fall in love
with a woman who was betrothed to another ;
to find my happiness subtly sneaking away,
and making its existence dependent upon conditions
which never could be fulfilled ; to feel
moreover that the emotions, which it was not in
my power to suppress, were in a sense unfair
to the girl — though I must always maintain
that the highest compliment a man can pay a
woman is to fall in love with her — whilst they
were dishonouring to myself in my existing
relations with my cousin, was to place myself,
without being able to help it, in a position so
immediately distressful as to threaten by and
by to become distracting. The worst of it was
that, whilst I would wish the voyage over, my
conscience was sensible that the desire was

nonsense, and that I was in no hurry. To be
sure It would be with nq common delight that I
should part with Captain Breakwater and his
odious dinner-table, and take an eternal farewell
of a ship's company of whose behaviour it was
Impossible to make sure from one hour's end
to another ; but already — already ! though Miss
Grant and I had been together for a fortnight
only — the prospect of turning my back upon
her, of saying good-bye to her at Rio, of sailing
away and feeling that all I had done was to
undergo the miseries of a long voyage merely
to hand over the handsomest woman that I had
ever met in my life — the only girl moreover I
had ever encountered to whom I could have
given every bit of my heart — I say, the prospect
of this was all so very distasteful to me, that
when I came to look into myself I was not at all
astonished to find I was secretly willing that
this voyage to Rio should continue, at all risks,
to a period that might be indeterminable, sooner
than sunder my association with the lovely and
engaging girl whom my abominably thoughtless
cousin had asked me to take charge of.

But these were my thoughts only. It was

not to be supposed that she would have the
least suspicion of what was passing in my mind.
There was nothing of the coquette in her ; no
capacity of courting admiration for the mere
selfish pleasure of enjoying it. As she walked
by my side, the warm fragrance of her on the
atmosphere, her face white to the star-shine with
the sparkles of it in her eyes, I had very little
doubt, believe me, that, had she guessed at the
thoughts which had my heart in tow, she would
have rapidly made shift to conquer the floating
movements of the deck without the support of
my arm upon which her left hand now rested.
Upon my word, the cruellest of all women — not
the more forgivable because she is unconsciously
cruel — is the girl who, knowing that she is
beautiful, acts without perception of the magic
and influence of her graces. Fortunately for
the peace of men, such women are rare. But
Miss Aurelia Grant was one of them ; and,
though the more intimate our association was
the more, in one sense, and in a mean sense I
am afraid, I enjoyed it ; yet she could never touch
my hand, bend her fire-impassioned eyes upon
mine, incline her stately figure to me with the



gracious, maidenly familiarity of a girl in the
society of a man whom she values as a friend,
without a sort of wild odd regret in me that
Nature, in making her beautiful, had not also
dowered her with the capacity of appreciating
the significance of beauty's most artless provocation.
But then the Spanish blood would
account for much in her that was as teasing as
it was delightful.

Now, as we quietly moved from one end of
the deck to the other, there happened so strange
a thing, that the like of it in these parallels, at
all events, has, to my knowledge, been witnessed
once only. We had been chatting as soberly
as though we were uncle and niece : not the
lightest of the inspirations of this most glorious
night coming out of it to tincture our words or
thoughts into any complexion of romance,
though never might a scene of starlit gloom
furnish a young fellow, already rendered sentimental
enough, with a better excuse for frequent
poetical flight than this in whose shadow I paced
with Miss Aurelia, her unloved hand (with the
gleam, by the way, of an engaged ring meeting
my eye each time I looked down) lying white

VOL. L T

as a flake of sea-foam In the bight of my arm.
I was talking about old Breakwater, and expressed
my wonder that he should be able to
accommodate his love of rum and his taste for
all night In," as they say at sea, with the
obligation he had imposed upon himself of
taking Bothwell's place.

Spite of his many shortcomings," she
exclaimed, " I should think he is too experienced
a sailor, too much a seaman
by habit not to be vigilant during his
watch."

Oh," said I, " I don't doubt that he keeps
a bright look-out when his turn to take charge
comes round. What I mean Is, it Is odd that
he should not have chosen some one from
amongst the men forward to act as second mate,
Gordon now being first, for then he would be
able to go to bed drunk as usual, with plenty of
time to sleep off the fumes ; but the long and
short of it is," I added, '' there's no living
creature in this forecastle to whom he durst
confide his ship."

As I said this, I heard my name called,
apparently from the forecastle. We were at

that moment close to the wheel, and In the act
of returning to measure the length of deck
afresh. I was not a little surprised to hear
myself hailed from so remote a part of the brigand
as I had not recognized the voice, I sang
out, " Who wants me there ? "

Me, sir — the mate," came the answer from
the bows ; " will you and the lady please step
this way ? "

I asked Miss Grant If she would accompany
me, thinking that she might be a little shy, and
very reasonably shy, too, under the circumstances,
of that part of the vessel.

Certainly," she answered promptly. We
had to move with caution. The pile of canvas
that clothed the brlof from truck to waterman
deepened the midnight obscurity of the deck,
and though it was plain sailing where we had
been walking, yet, once abreast of the mainmast,
one had to keep a sharp look-out, by groping,
for the harness-cask, scuttle-butts, coils of
rigging, pump-handles, and other matters which
lay between the point where the quarter-deck
began and where the brig's forecastle ended.
I called out, " On which side are you, Mr.

T 2

Gordon ? " wondering why he wanted us, and
what had carried him away from his post aft.

'' On the starboard bow, sir," he rejoined ;
mind the fluke of the stowed anchor as ye
come along ! I'm just forrard of it."

I held Miss Grant's hand, walking in front of
her. The galley was locked up for the night ;
there was not the faintest gleam of light anywhere
visible, if it were not a sort of ghostly
sheen lurking like a churchyard exhalation over
the fore-scuttle, from the slush lamp, as I
presumed, swinging in the sailors' sea-parlour
below. Indeed I was so engrossed by the
occupation of picking my way, that I saw
nothing until I was fairly alongside of Gordon,
who pointed, with a long shadowy arm, the
fingers at the end of which showed like a
giant's against the stars, over the horizon, and
exclaimed, " Mr. Musgrave, sir, saw any man
ever the like o' that ? What can it be ? "

He held his arm levelled, and following its
indication I saw, right ahead of the ship,
standing apparently upon the ocean at the
distance of the horizon, an arch of light, or
rather, let me say, a shape of dim white radiance.

that arched in perfect outline from one leg to
another that appeared to rest upon the black
surface of the deep to within three or four degrees
of the sea-line, as though its foot had
broken away. There is nothing so deceptive
as distance at sea. The liQ^ht, when I first saw
it, might have been within, gunshot, or it might
have been a couple of leagues away from us.
The radiance had the tint of moonshine, and
was as visibly defined upon the velvet dusk as
though painted there by the sweep of a brush
dipped in white fire. You saw the stars shining
close against the rim of it, all round and under
the arch of it, where they sparkled like the
riding-lights of ships.

'what is it, Mr. Mus^rave?" exclaimed
Gordon, in the voice of a man not only awed,
but even alarmed.

I wish I could tell you," said I. "It looks
like the fiery trail of a comet that has swept in
an arc from behind the sea, and gone to pieces
in the blackness before it had perfected the
semi-circle."

We are steering directly for it ! " exclaimed
Miss Grant.

The watch on deck, disturbed In the naps
they were taking In secret corners by Gordon's
call to me, had collected near us, and you heard
the growling of their voices as they pointed
ahead, marvelling, as we did, one to another,
at the startling, beautiful, radiant appearance.
I heard one say, "Jim, It's a sort of vast com-present.
There's no luck for the vessel as
sights them shows."

Another said, *' If we are to sail through It,
stand by ! The likes of them lights, I'veheerd,
strikes men green If they smites 'em full."

*' What in thunder can It be ? " repeated
Gordon ; " 'ain't anything burning out there,
is it ? How fur do It stretch ? Can any
man tell ? Looks to me to be a-wldenlng."

One of the shadowy group beside me exclaimed,
" Job is to know how fur off it lies. I
allow there's all ten mile between them legs,"

Vast there ! " cried another, " ten mile ! I'll
swap my chest again your Scotch cap afore eight
bells this blooming night if them legs is a mile
wide."

I'll go aft and report It to the captain," said
Gordon, in a voice that betrayed the agitation

he was labouring under. '' Never see'd the Hke
of such a- thing In all my time. Beats all my
going a-fishing, sir. Why, it's a object that
ain't in nature ; and if we don't give it a wide
berth it'll be a bad look-out for some of us, or I
wasn't christened Zana ! " And apparently as
much subdued as if he had seen a ghost, or
heard some spectral voice up in the air bidding
him prepare for his end, he slunk away from
our side, and vanished in the darkness as he
made his way to the cabin.

When he was gone a deep silence fell.
The men ceased to speak : Miss Grant and I
gazed without exchanging a syllable : nothing
was to be heard but the soft shearing of the cutwater
beneath us, rending the liquid indigo with
the noise as of the tearing of satin. The blackness
under the bows was profound — not a
sparkle of phosphor to catch the eye, not the
sickliest flake of star shine to express the invisible
heave of the deep by the wire-like
widening of it to the movement. I looked
behind me at the towering canvas on the
fore-mast, and found a strange solemnity In
the visionary beauty of the silent, swelling, airy

concavities mounting in pale vague surfaces into
the stooping dusk ; but whether near or distant,
the mystic arch of Hght ahead threw not the
feeblest gleam upon that soaring surface that
spectrally dilated on either hand to the pinions
of the studding-sails which faded into a hovering
faintness far beyond the sides. The mysterious
sheen to our approach seemed to gather a quicker
tincture of lustre, as of the diamond, or some
clear glittering star. It is impossible to express
the startling loveliness of this apparition of
luminous arch against the midnight sky, with
the stars shining down to its rim, and spangling
the hollow to the sea-line within. 'Twas as
though God's hand had set up a sign in the sky
for us to behold ; and the men now were so
dumb jn the face of it, that you easily guessed
how impressed and awed they were. Most of
the watch below had come up to have a look,
but each new-comer's first murmur of wonder
speedily died in the hush that was upon the
others.

'what is it, do you think, Mr. Musgrave ?"
said Miss Grant, in a voice a little above a
whisper.

Were we far north or south," I replied,
one would make it Intelligible by reference to
the Northern Lights or to the magnificent
display of the Aurora Australis, with its
sudden pale flashing and spiral coruscations.
No doubt yonder beautiful object is something
of the kind, electric — phosphoric — call it what
you will. But is it not worth seeing ? Why,
one would sail round the world even with old
Breakwater for such possession of memory as
that glorious span will yield ! "

"It will fill these poor fellows with superstitious
fancies," she said, speaking very softly.
Did you hear one of them say that people who
sail through such things are struck green ? "

I could not help laughing, and said, " Yes ;
but it is possible to be green without passing
through such an arch as that. If these sailors,
now, were Roman Catholics after the type of
the mariners of Columbus's day, they would be
on their knees chanting litanies, and making the
air melodious with their Salve Regina s. But
is not superstition excusable amongst seamen ?
Look at that wonderful sight. Miss Grant.
Imagine yourself run backwards by the stream

of time three hundred years — before the scientific
man had broken loose, when the world was
bare of problem-solvers, when all Interpretation
was deliciously romantic and tenderly poetical.
What then would you think of such a sight as
that! It would be no mere phosphoric or
electric arch. No, no ; but some paradisiacal
bridge of ethereal crystal, such as St. John
may have gazed upon without having recorded
it ; and be sure that your young-eyed imagination,
fired by sheer ecstasy of superstition,
would readily discern the forms of angelic
beings with wings of pearly light, and raiment
as lustrous as a moonbeam, flitting along it to
the stars upon which Its unfinished end to the
left there seems to rest."

I merely talked thus to provoke her, delighting
In the high moods which even such Idle
stuff as this would induce in her. But unfortunately
it was not only that we were not
alone ; I had scarcely made an end, when old
Breakwater, followed by Gordon, rolled floundering
and tumbling on to the forecastle. He
came and stood close against me, puffing and
blowing in such a manner that my nose was a

\

long way ahead of my ears in detecting that if
he was not actually drunk he must have turned
in very well primed. He stared for some
moments in silence, breathing hard, and then
burst out, " Well, boil me alive, if ever I seed
the likes of that ! 'Ain't fire, neither. What
do soit call it, ]mr. Gordon .^ "

Got no idea, sir," answered the mate,
speaking as before with a note of awe and
depression in his voice. ^' Shall we shift the
helm while there's time ? It looks close aboard
now, and wee shall be into it if we don't mind."

'' Shift the helium ! " cried Breakwater.
'' What for ? D'ye think it's land, man ? Why,
what else is it but what they calls a luminous
fog ? And who's going to diverge for a thickness
you can see through ? "

Some man said, " That there's no luminous
fog, master. It's a big, strlke-me-blind com-present.
Look out! It may foul our mast-heads
as we pass under it, and who's to know
that we shall ever be heard of afterwards ? "

Breakwater, who had been peering hard into
my face, seemed on a sudden to distinguish me,
and without apparently heeding the man who

had spoken, exclaimed, " Hope you're enjoying
of It. Mr. Musgrave. 'Taint often a sight Hke
that's chucked in for naught in a voyage to
Rio."

Am I to shift the helm, sir ?" said Gordon.

Certainly not ! " roared the old fellow,
"didn't ye hear me say so just now? Cook
me alive, Mr, Musgrave, if sailors be men fit
even to make soldiers of ! Diverge because
there's a lunar rainbow in the road ! " He
seemed to be struck by his own fancy. " It's a
lunar rainbow," he shouted, '' one of the finest
I ever see."

"Where's the moon to make him? "said a voice.

Keep all on as ye are, Mr. Gordon ; all on
as ye are ! " said Breakwater, with an ominous
growl in his tones, that was like an intimation
to the little company of shadows standing near
him to hold their peace. " Steady as she goes,
sir!" And so saying he staggered away
from the rail, and went swinging towards the
quarter-deck, singing out to the helmsman ashe
went, " Steady as she goes, my man ! steady
as she Q^oes ! "

We had neared the shining appearance so

rapidly, that I suspected it must have been very
much closer to us when first sighted than we
had imagined. It cast no reflection upon the
dark waters under it, nor sheen upon the air
beyond the line of its own irradiation, as you
saw by the shine of the stars close down upon
it. As we were under a steady helm, it soon
became plain that the sparkling arch was slowly
trending to larboard. When it first showed
out, our jibbooms seemed to point fair for the
centre of it, whereas now the right leg had
drawn on to our starboard bow. The obscurity
seemed the blacker for that light. I'd look
aloft and around, wondering that no illumination
came from the mystical burning to touch
the sails, or to put a sparkle into the eyes of
the staring men. They were grumbling freely,
swearing that nothing but ill-luck could attend
our passage through the luminous thing, and
heaping curses upon the captain for his drunken
obstinacy. Gordon had followed Breakwater
on to the quarter-deck, but Miss Grant and
I held our place against the forecastle-rail.
Within half-an-hour of the object heaving into
view, we were close upon it. Even when our

fiying-jibboom end was silvered by contact with
the luminosity, the jibs themselves hung black as
thunder-clouds against the shining. I had just
time to note the wondrous sweep of this mighty
arch, extending like a vast hueless rainbow
into the clear obscure, when the light was all
about us. I begged my companion to look
aft ; the spectacle was incomparable for splendour
and shadow, heightened by the elements
of mystery and fear. The swelling sails at the
fore — studding-sail upon studding-sail to the
topgallant )hard-arm, and white cloths rounding
and rising from forecourse to crowning royal
leapt into spaces of bland, almost milk-white
light to the touch of this atmospheric radiance,
and floated gleaming whilst the rest of the brig
from the fore-rigging lay black and buried ; but
very swiftly the whole vessel leapt into this
midnight effulgent vision, and no searching
moonlight could have offered a clearer view of
her. Every man's shadow swung at his feet ;
the atmosphere was a wide white gushing ;
the very trucks at the lofty masthead shone
out with the dull light of frosty silver buttons.
Aft, upon the quarter-deck, you saw the motionless

dark figures of Breakwater and the mate,
standing as though this mystical illumination
possessed some hellish quality that had blasted
them into fearlessness. The fellow at the wheel
gripped the spokes without a move in his
posture that seemed to me full of terror and
awe. Many of the crew whilst our jibboom
was yet penetrating this burning mist, and
whilst the forecastle still lay in blackness, had
jumped below with sharp cries of alarm, warning
one another to beware of the light, that it
turned the flesh green, that it was fatal to those
it shone on, and the like. But a few men
lingered, though when the brig was fair in the
radiance I marked them in cowering attitudes,
one stooping low at the windlass end, another
crouching with his arms against his forehead, a
third in a posture of recoil at the heel of the
bowsprit, as I have seen people terror-stricken
by a sudden dazzling flash of lightning. The
heave of the sea was like the swelling of a
sheet of silver. But in less than three minutes,
as nearly as I could calculate, I marked the
jibboom and jibs turn black, then the forecastle
stole into the midnight again, and preternatural

beyond expression was the spectacle of the
swelling canvas, bright for a breath to us who
stood in blackness, then vanishing upon the
sight as though the whole fabric had been
formed of star-lighted mist that had melted on
a sudden. In a few minutes the brig was
once more sailing along in darkness, and the
glorious arch was over her stern, with what was
now its left limb, viewing it from the forecastle,
veering away upon our larboard quarter.

Breakwater's proposal.

Had we been a large ship full of passengers,
such an astonishing sight as a silver arch, self-luminous,
yet without power to pale the close-lying
stars, with overflow of its sheen, spanning
a space of the midnight waters and resembling
nothing, as I then supposed, ever seen south of
the polar verge of the temperate parallels north
of the equator, would have given us enough to
talk about to serve to the end of the vovao-e
But wonderment is brief when Its sphere of
diffusion is slender. Miss Grant and I talked
the subject out promptly, and then there was
nobody left to say more about it. Breakwater,
It Is true, at breakfast next morning persisted in
declaring that it was a lunar rainbow ; though,
had he stuck to his first notion that It was a
VOL. I. u

luminous mist, I am not sure that his guess
would have been far out.

'' How are you going to get a lunar rainbow
without the moon ? " I said.

'' Who says that it is to be got ? " he answered.
*' The moon's always somewheres about, I suppose
; and why shouldn't she be able to chuck
one of them appearances upon the sky when
she's out of sight, just as she do when she's
within view of the eye ? There's no call for her
to be overhead for shows of that kind to happen.
I once see a beautiful rainbow, right over
our masthead, a full half-hour after the sun
had gone down. You may depend upon it that
there arch last night was a lunar rainbow."

I liked him too little to argue with him, lover
as I am of the absurd ideas of stupid, prejudiced,
ignorant old sailors. Besides, the thing was a
phenomenon not to be explained by anybody
aboard that brig at all events, and to be accepted
therefore as one of the many thrilling
and beautiful mysteries of old ocean's sombre
or sunlit solitudes.

I was not however a little surprised to find
that what I had deemed the mere passing depressing

influence of the apparition upon the
spirits of Gordon continued to weigh upon him.
This was made apparent when Breakwater, after
favouring us with his views on the subject of
lunar rainbows and other atmospheric effects,
most of which were no doubt coloured by the
bottle of rum through which he had inspected
them, went on deck that the mate might get
his breakfast.

Have any of the hands turned green since
last night, Mr. Gordon ? " said I.

No, sir," he answered. " Most of 'em
jumped below, I hear ; brothers dodged the
sheen. They reckoned upon some of them
showing blighted though when daylight came
along ; and if the watch had turned out blue, let
alone gi^een, hang me, Mr. Musgrave ! " he exclaimed,
hitting the table with the handle of his
knife to emphasize his language, " if I for one
should have been surprised, for never did a more
scaring sight arise before the eyes of a sailor."

His subdued and dejected manner was more
striking than his words. I glanced at Miss
Grant, whose fine eyes, full of thought, were
fastened upon his face.

u 2

The fancy amongst the men," she exclaimed,
'' must have arisen from the old belief that the
shining of the moon full on the face of a sleeper
distorts the features, and puts an ugly colour
into the complexion. The arch looked like moonshine,
and I suppose the sight made the men so
nervous that it was enough for one of them to
hint at anything alarming to terrify the whole."

I wish I'd never seen it," he exclaimed ;
it's done me no good, miss."

But surely," cried I, wondering at him, for
his had always seemed to me as prosaic a mind
as ever I met with in a sailor — nor could I forget
his ridicule of the superstitious craze of the
man who had drowned himself in the English
Channel — " you do not want yourself to believe
that there is anything in a mere body
of luminous vapour, to call it so, to hurt or
influence you, either in body or mind ? "

He shook his head very despondently : I
observed that he ate little, though he drank a
quantity of tea, thirstily and feverishly. '' I'm
a poor man, sir," he exclaimed, " but, so help
me Heaven, Mr. Musgrave, I'd gladly have
parted with every shilling of my savings sooner

than that the capt'n should have headed the
brig sick into that shining. Beg your pardon,
miss," he continued, addressing Miss Grant with
a sudden eagerness, " but when ye entered that
Hght did it feel cold to ye ? "

No," she answered, without exhibiting surprise
at the question.

You, Mr. Musgrave — did it feel chilly like ?
not so much upon your skin as here ? " and he
put his hand to his heart.

The only sensation I can recollect," I
answered, '' is one of delight at the glorious
picture the brig made, as she slowly floated into
the radiance out of the blackness, coating herself
with the quicksilver of it from the truck to
the end of the swinging boom."

He was silent, then shook his head, and
exclaimed: "Well, mere fancy, no doubt. It's
all fancy in this here world. Without imagination
there'd be nothing to hope for, nothing to
be afraid of."

There might have been a chill in the light,
though we enjoyed the picture too much to be
conscious of it," said Miss Grant, talking to me
though speaking at Gordon.

The strangest part of it was this, miss," he
said, looking at her earnestly, " I felt it was cold
afore we entered it. 'Twas that which made
me so earnest the capt'n should shift the helium.
I knew so soon as ever I came in contact with
that licht the bleakness of it would catch me
here," again putting his hand to his heart, " and
I'd have given all I'm worth — all I'm worth,"
the poor fellow cried, with a vehemence unusual
in him, " to have escaped it. Up to the moment
when the light had sliced within a foot of me I'd
no sensation but the fear of what was a- coming ;
but the moment it touched me I felt the chill.
There was death in it, sir, there was death in it !
No man '11 ever persuade me contrary-wise."

He checked what I was about to say by
rising with an apologetic glance at the skylight,
to let us know he could linger no longer, and
immediately went on deck.

I had so much faith in the steadiness of
Gordon's intellect that I could only accept this
odd posture in him as due to some trifling
functional derangement, which a dose of physic
or a few hours' rest would correct. Yet it gave
Miss Grant and me something to talk about. I

had some knowledge of sailors and their superstitions,
and kept her amused for an hour or
two with stories of wizards of Finnish origin,
who sold favourable gales of wind to credulous
mariners ; of bald human heads, with little laughing
black eyes and capacious grinning mouths,
rising to the surface, and terrifying Jack by
asking questions in a tongue unknown to any
nation under the stars, and then disappearing
with a shriek of derisive laughter ; of ghostly
shapes alighting on the yard-arms, and kindling
corpse-lights there, by whose dismal illumination
the mariner could see phantom faces glimmering
out into expressions of sorrow and remorse,
as though grieving over the fateful missions
on which they had been despatched.

However, though I had no sympathy with the
queer notions which had come into Gordon's
head, my own misgivings were of a kind which
might very well have passed for a sort of
superstition too, for they kept me incessantly
foreboding disaster, though what form it was to
take I never could have imagined ; and so, as
you will see, the mate's despondency in its way
was no more deserving of ridicule than mine.

First of all, I was more troubled than I was
perhaps conscious of by the recollection of the
murder that had been committed. It worried
me mostly of nights ; again and again in the
darkness of my cabin, and in the silence of
the long watches, when the brig was sailing
smoothly forwards, and all was still upon the
sea, when nothing broke upon the ear but the
muffled washing of water outside, and' the
faint jar and creak of the fabric within, the
vision of the mate as I saw him when he stood
at the foot of the companion-steps with the
grin of death in his moving and speechless lips,
his right hand extended, his left hand dabbling
in his shirt that was soaked, where his fingers
pressed, with the life-blood draining from his
heart, would rise before me horribly distinct,
and keep me rolling and tumbling in my bunk,
till more than once it ended in my jumping
up, lighting the lamp, and clothing myself, and
killing a couple of sleepless hours with pipes of
tobacco and a drain or two from the private
stock in the next cabin. Then again, as I have
before said, it was a cause of no small consternation
to me, secret as the emotion was, to

feel that the man who had committed this
murder moved freely about the ship, enjoying
his liberty and the protection of the crew, and
had all necessary leisure besides to converse
with the men, and to influence them to any
purpose he might have in his mind. Indeed I
formed a darker opinion of the sailors from
their willing association with the ruffian, and
the jokes I would hear them exchanging with
him, than from any other sort of conduct I had
as yet witnessed in them. It was un-english —
a harsh, bad, jarring note in the rough and
rude harmony of British forecastle-life ; and this
feature of our shipboard existence was the
uglier to my mind for the man being a foreigner.
Such half-bloods as this Charles, at best, are a
people alongside whom our Jacks do not much
care to elinor their hammocks nor eat out of the
same kid with ; but in addition to this man's
deformity of breed was his proved quality as a
knife " — a characteristic unpleasantly common
to those skins, and half the secret at least of the
aversion they inspire in English crews. Detestable
as Bothwell had been as a man, the crime
of his murder was more to be abhorred even

than he ; and I say it worked in me Hke a
superstition to see his assassin coming and
going about the decks, fetching his meals from
the caboose along with the others, singing out
at the ropes, or hailing from aloft in the voice
of a lively hearty — but always with the same
sharp, stabbing gleam in his eyes whenever he
turned them upon Breakwater — and making a
part of the brig's honest routine, when his
proper lodging was the forehead, his fit
equipment the bilboes, and his rightful condition
the completest practicable isolation from
his shipmates.

These and twenty more such thoughts were
in my mind after Miss Grant had withdrawn to
her berth, and whilst I remained alone watching
the shambling figure of the cabin-boy stripping
the cabin-table, with a hungry goggling of his
eyes at the remains of the meal as he staggered
up the hatchway with the dishes. I was
mechanically rolling a cigar between my fingers,
with the intention of lighting it and going
on deck, when Breakwater came below. I supposed
he would pass to his cabin, for, now that
he divided the look-out with Gordon, he was

very punctual in going to bed when it came to
his turn to quit the deck. Instead, he halted,
took a survey of the cabin as if to make sure
that we were alone, and then came and sat
down near me.

'' Mr. Musgrave," said he, speaking with hesitation
and awkwardly, " I knew that you was
at sea as a youth, sir ; but I wasn't aware, till
Mr. Gordon just now told me, that you considered
yourself equal to taking charge of the
deck and navigating a craft."

I looked at him, wondering what was in his
mind.

'' I hope," he continued, " you'll find nothing
offensive in what I'm about to observe. The
fact's this. Now that my mate's overboard,
there's no man but me in this here brie, barring
yourself, with knowledge enough of the quadrant
to know what part to put his eye at, if so
be he should need to use it. Now, if I should
fall sick, who is there, unless it be you, sir,
who'd be able to carry on the navigation of this
here brig ? Gordon tells me that you yourself
said to him a short while ago you'd be willing,
if asked, to take a mate's berth aboard of me.

Now, Mr. Musgrave, what d'ye say ? Gordon's
agreeable to fall back into his old spear, and if
you'll take his place as mate, sir, I should be
glad, very glad indeed ; though of course I won't
say nothing about remuneration, that being a
matter you might afterwards settle with the
owner."

I am obliged to you for your offer," said I.
''' I certainly did say something to Gordon about
being willing to lend a hand in the navigation of
the brig, should my services in that way ever
be required ; but as to taking a post of command
over your crew " I shook my head.

I don't like their attitude ; I don't like the
idea of your mate's murderer being at large ; I
don't like to think that there's any body of
English sailors who can not only protect but
remain friends with a half-blood, a foreign miscreant,
whose knife, in my humble opinion, is
as ready for another man's heart as it was
for Mr. Bothwell's."

'' Ay," said he hoarsely, leaning towards me
with a look at the skylight, and then at the
hatch, " that's just it. We've hit it true as a
hair. It's more because I want to feel that we're

stronger than we are aft than because I may
fall sick that I'd be glad to see you mate first or
second, as you may elect. I don't mind telling
you," he continued, in the same hoarse, subdued
voice, and with another look up and around,
"that the aspect of the present biting don't sit
pleasingly upon my eyes, sir. Ye heard what
Gordon said that ni^fht of the murder, when he
came down — how the half-blood 'ud do for vie,
too, if I didn't keep a bright look-out. Well, I
tell you, I've learnt to fear that man. I don't
like his looks. I met his eye just now, and it was
like the snap of a musket at mee. I haven't said
much about it, in fact I haven't said anything ;
and maybe it's weighed the more upon me,
'cause I kept myself shut up on the subject. But
it's a long way to Rio yet, sir, and my fear of
what that man's capable of is a weight that I
must chuck over the side somehow or other.
My notion is, then, that if you took the mate's
berth the men 'ud like it, you being a gentleman.
They'd feel your influence after a bit,
and by expressing of your feelings to them in
the sort of language that my neglected education
as a boy keeps me as a man a-falling

short of, they might grow ashamed of their
protection of the half-blood, and be willing
to let us clap him in irons, when of course I
should be able to sleep sound again, and
enjoy my meals with the old satisfaction."

He looked at me with a mixture of
eagerness and cunning in his little eyes. I
did not need to reflect, for whilst he had
been speaking I had made up my mind.

I thank you for your good opinion of me,"
said I ; " I cannot accept any such post as
you propose. 'Twas a mere fancy tossed to
the bo'sun in the course of a talk, with no
wish or resolution in it at all ; but, though
I decline your offer, you will of course understand
that I am quite prepared to support
you in any time of trouble ; always
presuming," I added significantly, " that the
authority you exercise, but which may be
resisted, is fair, legitimate, and consistent
with regular sea-duties."

'' Have ye got any weapons of your own ?"
he asked, with another look up and around.

Yes," I answered.

What are they, sir ? "

I

^' A brace of pistols," said I.

** Any ammunition ? "

'ray," I replied smiling, 'enough to send
ten times the number of your crew to their
account."

That's all right," said he ; " I'm armed
too, armed enough to be able to serve out
what's needful to Gordon, and to have
enough left for myself and vi07'e, if we can
get others to help us. Would you mind
doing this, sir ? — get in with the men in a
proper sort of condescending way, so as
there could be nothing bemoaning in the
thing to a gent of your spirit, and find out
if there's e'er a man forward who is to be
trusted to stand by and look on, should you
and me and Gordon arrange to rush the
job."

I don't fully understand," said I.
"Well, I'll tell ye," he exclaimed, with his
eyes very full of cunning and eagerness, " the
notion that's come into my head's this : if wee
could count on so many of the men standing
aloof, should it come to a melhee, then for the
safety of all concerned I should propose that

MAROONED. chap.

you and me and Gordon should arm ourselves,
have the handcuffs ready, fall upon and secure
the half-blood when no man could suspect
our intentions, drag him aft and lock him
up down here, and with our pistols keep
any of the crew off who should attempt a
rescue."

The scheme is practicable," said I, after
a little, " but it requires consideration. At
the first sight I don't half like it. I see your
difficulty — I clearly perceive that unless this
half-blood be secured and removed from all
intercourse with the crew, diabolical mischief
may follow. I realize this : that at one end
of the ship is a murderer, at the other end
a man who is only waiting to get him to
Rio to hang him." He nodded vehemently.
He knows that, and the question is, is he
going to give you the chance to hang him ? "

That's the question ! " he cried, bringing
his fist down heavily upon the table.

'' Yes," I exclaimed, '' and it has haunted
me pretty smartly of late, I can assure you.
But, on the other hand, a melhee, as you
call it — this project of seizing the half-blood

I

and threatening the sailors with our small-arms
— might, indeed it would, end in rank,
staring, hellish mutiny. What then would
you do ? There are but three of us against
the whole ship's company. The safety of
the lady who is on board this vessel under
my protection is my first consideration. It
would be a poor look-out to set fire to a ship
in order to get rid of a rat. It would be an
equally poor look-out to excite the men into
wild revolt against the three of us, to the
imperilling of the life and honour of Miss
Grant, for all we dare predict, simply that
your mind may be eased by having the half-blood
under lock and key."

Then what's to be done ? " he exclaimed
coarsely, and in a defiant, quarrelsome way
The safety of the brig depends upon me,
and if harm befalls vie, what's to become other,
and you, and the lady you're so concerned
about — and unwisely concerned about in my
opinion, for, by not helping me, you'll be
chancing to let her go adrift."

"I have told you. Captain Breakwater,"
said I, greatly disliking this sudden change
of manner in him, for I had met his suggest

I. X

tion in a very earnest spirit, " that In a time
of extremity, which shall not — understand me
have been brought about by any act of
cruelty and brutality on your part, I will
support you and Mr. Gordon heart and soul.
But I cannot accept the duties you ask me
to undertake, nor do I see my way to offering
to help you In any wild scheme of seizing
the half-blood, under cover of the muzzles of
our pistols, with perhaps the obligation of
having to shoot down one or more of your
crew, to the assured end of raising a murderous
spirit amongst the men, and exciting them
into God knows what act of terrible mutiny."

As I said this. Miss Grant came from her
berth. I made a gesture to him to signify
that no more must be said now ; on which
he rose and went to his cabin. She looked
at me earnestly, but was silent. I handed
her up the companion-ladder, lighted a cigar,
and followed. The morning was deliciously
fine. There was a pleasant breeze a little
abaft the beam, which enabled the brig to
show her lower studding-sail to it, and under
broad wrings packed to the trucks, the little
vessel glided crisply over a sea of blue,

the beautiful dark dye of which at the
horizon seemed to tincture the Hne of the
sky, bending down past it into an opalescent
shimmer through contrast of the sapphire
sweep with the azure faintness behind it.
The decks were dry and white, with a
crystalline sparkling of salt about them.
There was a short awning just abaft the
skylight, and our deck-chairs were under it ;
but the sun was not yet high, the wind blew
sweet and cool over the rail ; life was stirred
to her innermost sources by the freshness of
the morning, and to sit would have been to
forfeit half the delights of this radiant day.
On our quarter, steering north, was a brigantine,
toy-like in the distance ; the sunlight
flashed an ivory whiteness on her windward
canvas, whilst the violet shadowing on the
leeward cloths made them look to be melting
on the airy blue beyond. There was a spot
of colour in her rigging, and Gordon, from
the other side, called out to me that she was
a Dane. There was nothing else in sight,
and the mighty stretch of water, under the
dazzle of the soaring sun, looked the vaster
for that fairy-like fabric upon it.

X 2

I threw a swift glance along our decks, and

noticed that the men worked quietly upon their

various jobs. A couple of them were busy on

some chafing-gear in the fore-rigging ; a 

winch was rattling on the forecastle ; and

the half-blood Charles, with his back upon uS'

dressed in blue dungaree, a red cap on his head,

and chocolate-coloured shanks bare to the knees,

was balling up the stuff as It was manufactured.

The cook was standing in the door of his little

galley, smoking a sooty pipe, his naked arms

folded upon his breast, watching the cabin-boy

close by washing some plates and dishes In a

tub. High aloft on the fore-royal-yard stood

the figure of a man, who had paused In some

work he was upon up there to stand erect with

his hand on the truck, and the sharp of his

other hand over his eyes, whilst he gazed Into

the immeasurable distance visible to him from

that altitudes The tall, muscular seaman,

Terence Mole, was at the helm, his hands

carelessly gripping the spokes of the wheel, his

attitude full of that indefinable, floating ease that

enters as a sort of grace into the posture and

movements of the true deep-water sailor. All

these were details to fill my eye in a breath ;

and on the surface the picture was so homely,
there seemed so much salt, plain honesty in the
complexion, quality, aspect of the full scene,
that my instant recurrence to what but a little
while before had passed between the captain
and myself, affected me as an unreality, as
something that I had imagined, as an affront to
the truth of this quiet, inboard picture, and to
the high, wide, refreshing splendour through
which our little craft was softly pushing.

When we emerged from the cabin. Miss
Grant made some commonplace remark about
the beauty of the morning ; but we had scarcely
measured half the length of the deck when,
looking at me wistfully and searchingly also,
she exclaimed, '' What has happened to worry
you, Mr. Musgrave ? "

I must look worried, I suppose," I answered,
smiling, " or you would not ask the
question."

"You do, indeed. It is some anxiety that
concerns this voyage, of course. There can be
nothing else, for there are no postmen here to
bring you disagreeable news ; at least I hope
the cause lies in the voyage." '' If it does, will
you tell me what it is ? "

Now my immediate impulse was to answer
her evasively ; but on meeting her gaze, I
observed so much fearlessness in it, so much
clear and keen intelligence, along with so direct
a challenge to me to be plain with her or not
speak at all, and so unmistakable an assurance
besides of a guess that had already carried her
half-way into the truth, that I said to myself
with the swiftness of one who thinks, '' Why
not be perfectly candid with this woman ?
The wit and instincts of her sex may help
me."

She kept her gaze fastened upon me, and
seemed to read my thoughts. She said, with a
little smile very full of pride, " Do you know,
Mr. Musgrave, if Alexander ever had a doubt,
he would come to me to settle it for him. I am
fond of problems. If I were a man, I should
wish to be a politician above all things. I
should love to be in a position where my
judgment would be constantly tested, and
where I should have to act quickly. What is
best in a sailor's character springs from this
habit. He is incessantly confronted by surprises,
many of them tragical, all of them requiring
instant resolution." She preserved her smile,

still continuing to look at me. I suspected she
talked to give me time to think.

My anxiety," said I, " concerns our position
on board this vessel — your position chiefly.
What could offer a more peaceful picture than
these decks .^ How softly the shadows sway !
The men are working as quietly as if the whole
gladness of the morning were in them ; and
yet, since you wish to know the truth, Miss
Grant, I should say that if these planks were
growling insufferably hot from fire below —
raging, but as yet concealed — our outlook
would be more distinctly satisfactory to my
mind than it is now, staunch as the brig
is, quiet as these fellows seem, calm and
glowing as the whole picture all about us
shows."

She threw a glance around her, and said
quietly, " What has occurred to put these
thoughts into you ? "

I came to a halt, our faces fronting the
forecastle, and indicating the half-blood by a
movement of my head, I said, '' That fellow
there knows that on the arrival of this brig he
must be hanged, or in some other manner
dispatched for the murder of Mr. Both well.

He also knows that the man who is resting in
the cabin under our feet means to get him
killed for his crime." The half-blood turned
his head at this moment, and we resumed our
walk. '' You say you are fond of problems.
Here is one for you. That fellow forward has
the sympathies of the whole crew. He has
more : he has their protection, and they will
not allow a finger to be laid upon him. Aft is
a captain who stands alone."

The problem, Mr. Musgrave ? "

How is Captain Breakwater to sail the ship
to Rio, and set you and me safely ashore therewith
yonder olive-coloured villain closely and
intimately associated with the crew — popular
amongst them as the hero who freed them
from the tyranny of the mate — conscious,
maybe, of their willingness to help him save
his life, which he knows must be forfeited on
the arrival of the brig ? "

What do you fear ? "

That Master Ernest Charles yonder will
contrive that this trip" shall never reach her

port."

By what means ? "

Ha ! " said I, " there it is, Miss Grant."

She threw another swift glance around her
and slightly knitted her brows. " Can we not
contrive to find out what Captain Breakwater
thinks ? " she said.

I exactly repeated my conversation with him
in the cabin. She listened until I had made an
end, and then said quickly, " Mr. Musgrave, if
you will be advised by me, you will take no
part in any scheme the captain may decide
upon as regards the discipline of the vessel.
The men know that they have your sympathies,
and should trouble come, they will
at least they may — remember that you
were their friend. But what would be the
result of your siding with the captain,
helping him to put that wretched creature
yonder in irons, perhaps being obliged in
self-defence to shoot one of the crew ? We
have a right to think of our safety. Captain
Breakwater has imperilled it by his treatment
of the men, and I say we have a right, Mr.
]\Iusgrave, to think of ourselves. My advice
is, be neutral."

I dare say I was the more impressed by
what she said, because of her having given
prompt and clear expression to my own secret

Opinions. The judgment that concurs with
our own must be, of course, very shrewd and
sagacious. But I could also find a good deal
to admire in the quickness with which she had
seen into the thing, and the accuracy of her
insight. For, after all, it only needed a little
thought to enable me to conclude, that as
Gordon hardly seemed a man to prove
serviceable in a crisis — being just a plain,
sober, slow-minded sailor, whose tastes were
altogether forward, and who in his heart loved
the captain as little as the others — the main
burden of Breakwater's project must be borne
by him and me ; that a conflict between us and
the crew must inevitably end in our defeat, and
perhaps in our destruction, for the sight of a
levelled pistol would serve, as a wand in the
hand of a wizard, to raise the foulest of evil
spirits among the people of the brig ; and that
if I were not slaughtered outright in the
struggle with the men, they would extend their
hatred of the captain to me in an equal measure,
so that, in a word, I should be practically
helpless as a protector in any form or fashion
for Miss Grant. Indeed, this was the essential
meaning of her advice to me — her entreaty

almost ; yet I thought I would sound her
womanly judgment a little further.

You are perfectly right, and I shall be
guided by you. But suppose the captain should
be set upon by the men — I mean treacherously
without furnishing them with an inch of honest
justification, would it not be my duty as well as
my policy to stand by him ? "

But is he likely to be set upon unless he
provokes them ? And judging from what we
have seen, if he provokes them, will he not
deserve the treatment he may receive at their
hands ? " she answered, with a flash of indignation
in her look which gave me to know that
old Breakwater must expect no commiseration
from her, happen what might.

I am heartily sorry," said I, with a smile
which instantly brought the light of one into
her face, though my own grin was pure admiration
without the faintest flavour of mirth ; for
her beauty showed rich just then to the mood
excited in her by our conversation, and admiration
will often make a man smile as though he
had a joke in his head when, God knows, his
heart may be full of mirthless emotion — " I am
mightily sorry that I was ever at sea as a sailor.

Were I a landsman making my first voyage, I
should find little or nothing to worry me in
what has happened ; particularly now that the
roll of the commotion is smoothed out, and
everything," I added, with a look along the
peaceful decks, '' is as placid on the surface as
the waters of a canal."

''A little patience, j\Ir. Musgrave ! " she exclaimed.
*' Rio is closer than it was a fortnight
ago." I was not so sure of that, but I said
nothing. "At all events," she continued, 'ewe
must take care that you return home in a good
ship, with a pleasant captain."

'eyes," said I, " we must see to that."

Alexander will be able to advise you," she
said, with a softening of her voice to the utterance
of his name. "He is sure to know of a
good ship, one that might be quite worth
waiting for if she is not at Rio."

Confound Alexander ! " I thought to myself;
and her way of speaking of him so teased me,
that it would have soothed the momentary
irritation to have told her that I heartily wished
he stood in my boots on board this brig. Buta
glance at her made me feel that the expression
of such a v/Ish would have been preposterously

insincere. No ; our situation was uncommonly
dark and uncomfortable : no man knowing the
truth would have dared venture to predict that
tomorrow would find us as we were to-day ; and
still my enjoyment of her society topped every
risk I could contemplate ; and how detestable
the project of our association coming to an end
was to me, I knew by my inward perturbation
that followed on her speaking of Alexander
and his choosing me a good ship to return in.

An hour passed. Our conversation was
chiefly about the crew, and the outlook they
threatened, and again and again she advised
me not to entertain any scheme old Breakwater
might submit, but to view myself wholly asa
passenger, without further concern in the
voyage than its conclusion. She then, feeling
tired, took a chair under the awning and put
a book upon her knee, but seemed to have no
eyes for anything but the crew, whom she
watched curiously, as might an artist who gazes
for effects of colour, posture, and expression.
All this while Gordon trudged the weather-deck
alone. I now crossed over to him.

'' Feel more cheerful by this time, I hope,
INIr Gordon?" said I ; "a man's spirits must

be gloomy indeed that don't brighten out to
such a day as this."

He forced a grin, and said, " Dorrit, sir,
dorrit ; there's no accounting for a man's
feelings. I wish it 'ud come on to blow. This
here smiling kind of weather is all very well
when ye ain't in a hurry ; but when ye're got
bows forrard like the head of a puncheon, and |
beam enough for a score of fandangoes 'twixt "
the rails, without call to stop even a coil of
halliards to the standing rigging to get more
room, then what one wants is the relieving-tackles
hauled taut, and two chaps sweating at
the wheel, and the spritsail-yard out of sight in
the smother over the bows."

'' You're in as great a hurry as Miss Grant,"
I exclaimed.

Greater, I essay," he exclaimed. *' To
tell ye the truth, Mr. Musgrave, I'm sick of the |
voyage. None of these here small brigs forme
again, sir. Never no more ! Notion less
than a thousand ton. A man's nature seems
able to stand upright when he's aboard a big
ship ; in these here small craft it's all stooping
for fear of knocking your brains out."

There was a sour expression on his face

which strictly corresponded with the sentiment
and note of his grumbling. I said to him,
Gordon, an odd thought came into my head
just now. Notice the half-blood yonder. He's
a clearer menace to our safety than an auger
working through the ship's bottom. Now
what think you of the scheme of the captain —
of you and me arming ourselves with loaded
pistols, springing upon him unawares, handcuffing
him, and dragging him aft under
cover of the muzzles of our small
arms ? "

What do I think of it, sir ? " he exclaimed,
without a moment's hesitation.
Yes," I rejoined.

This," said he. " If there's any gunpowder
aboard, better knock the head off a barrel and
snap one of your pistols into it, and blow the
whole blooming mess of us to heaven. But
you're not serious ? "

No, no," said I ; '' certainly not. Mere
fancy, and nothing more. But not to your
liking, evidently."

Good God ! " he exclaimed, '' at the first
offer to touch Charles, pistol or no pistol, the
whole crew 'ud be on ye like one man. Tkeyd

like the scheme. It's the sort of chance they're
waiting for. For Heaven's sake, don't go and
suggest your notion to the capt'n, sir. He's
just the sort of man to entertain it, and to
come and ask me to help him."

"Would you help him ?" said I.

Let him ask me first, Mr. Musgrave," he
replied, with an odd look at me out of the
corner of his eyes. If this was not news, 'twas
what I needed to get from his lips. Even had
Miss Grant's advice not already settled my
mind, Gordon's askant glance, that was more
eloquent than words, would have decided me
out of hand, there and then. In truth it could
but prove as I had foreseen, should I consent
to help the captain ; and I remember that
I let out my breath in a half-wild sigh of
relief over the determination I had formed
as I turned from Gordon to take a chair at
Miss Grant's side.

END OF VOL. I.

RICHARD CLAY AND SONS LIMITED, LONDON AND BUNGAY.

/

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS



R9lmar
V.2

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/marooned02russ

VOL. II

BY

W. CLARK RUSSELL

AUTHOR OF " THE GOLDEN HOPE," " THE WRECK OF THE ' GROSVENOR,
THE LADY MAUD," " A SEA QUEEN," '* JACk's COURTSHIP,"
THE FROZEN PIRATE," ETC, ETC.

Maroon — To put a person ashore on an uninhabited island

Nautical Diction

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II ■

Mention
MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


The Right of Translation and Reproduction is Rcserz'cd

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

WE LOSE THE CABIN BOY I

CHAPTER II.

WE LOSE FOUR MEN 24

CHAPTER III.

I TAKE COMMAND 58

CHAPTER IV.

WE ARE SPOKEN QI

CHAPTER V.

A FESTIVE DOG-WATCH 127

CHAPTER VI.

PAGE

MAROONED 162

CHAPTER Vn.

WE VIEW THE ISLAND I99

CHAPTER VIII.

THE MIDNIGHT BELL 227

CHAPTER IX.

A PIRATICAL LAIR 25 1

CHAPTER X.

AN UNDERGROUND LODGING 286

CHAPTER I.

WE LOSE THE Cabs X-B O V.

Two mornings after this, on going on deck
shortly before the breakfast-hour, I found the
weather changed. The high sun, the blue skies
which had shone over us now for many days
together, were gone. The atmosphere was
gloomy, with a pale thickness that brought the
sea-line to within cannon-shot. Under the lead-coloured
gloom over the masthead one could
dimly catch sight here and there of a black curl
of scud-like cloud blowing leisurely athwart
our track ; otherwise there was no break, no
shadowed curve or line to tell of a denser or
darker vapour yet above the warm and sallow

VOL. IL B

haze through which the wind was sweeping
without dispersing it. The sea ran in a slopping
sort of way that made a great noise about the
brig's sides with notes of hollow plashing, the
slap of a leap of water seething to its own recoil,
the short, small roar of billows overspreading
some backward scent ahead of them, like the
oToanino; of surf tumbling in snow to the hidden
drag of the undertow. You would have thought
there was a strong windward tide running ; yet
with all this briskness of surface play, I never
saw the ocean wear a sulkier look. The
glorious sparkling blue of its brine was gone ;
'twas now of a cold, sallowish green, thick and
muddy with every heave ; as though under its
heads of foam, and the short, conflicting runs
of its small seas, it had been thickened into
sluggishness by upheaval of ooze into its
volume.

The atmosphere was like a tepid bath, and
the brig was damp with it from her loftiest
cloths to the deck from which I surveyed the
scene. She was under all plain sail, the yards
braced forward, but the studding-sail-booms
were still rigged out, which was perhaps as

good as saying that old Breakwater found
nothing more in the weather that had comedown
upon us than was visible to the bare eye.
She was pushing through it dully, and tumbling
uncomfortably, in a most sickening way indeed ;
insomuch, that for the first time during this
voyage I felt absolutely uneasy, though the
fresh air speedily relieved me of the disagreeable
oppression. There was no weight of surge, and
yet she could not have flopped about more
drunkenly had a strong sea been running.
First she would give a sharp dip forward ; but
before she could put her round nose well into
it a trough would suddenly yawn under her
counter, and oblige her to drop her stern
sharply, and with a souse that would send a
large dark-green, glass-clear curl of water
thundering into foam away from her quarter ;
an instant after she would tumble to windward,
as though collecting her energies for a good heel
over to t'other side ; but whilst you postured
yourself for the slope of the deck, she would
recover herself with a jerk that made you
stagger again. I had never heard so much
groaning aloft before. The mandrake is said to

B 2

shriek when dragged out by the roots ; so did
every shroud, backstay, and hazard aboard the
Iron Crown, to the fierce jerking strains put
upon them by the giddy, capricious TolHng of
the spars. Every parrel delivered a groan of
its own, every sheave squeaked like a rat in its
block ; nor though the wind was of some little
briskness had it power to keep the courses and
even the topsails distended during the leeward
plunges, when the heavy cloths would come in to
the masts with a blow that sent blasts of noise
through the air like boiler explosions or smart
claps of thunder.

Breakwater was in charge. I stepped mechanically
over to the compass to have a look
at the card, though of course it was to be
known by the lay of her yards that the brig
was steering her true course. The captain was
clothed in a long pea-coat and sour-wester, and
his red face, framed in the sea-helmet, showed
methought this morning very sourly, with a
harsh twist about his mouth that put the look
of a sulky sneer into its ordinary, familiar,
whistling expression. A large drop of moisture
sparkled at the end of his nose. He stood

holding on to the weather-vang of the trysail-gaff,
apparently as little able as I was to move
about the decks. The watch had finished their
business of washing down, the ropes were coiled
away and everything was ship-shape fore and
aft : but the drizzled, weeping aspect of the brig,
with shadows of moisture lying in dark curves
upon her canvas, and blobs of wet distilling from
gray ropes and black shrouds, made her look
singularly dejected and forlorn, and I could
scarcely forbear a smile, as I glanced from the
picture of her to the skipper's face, and
witnessed the absurd correspondence between
his damp sourness and her appearance.

He eyed me as if he would like to speak, but
I took care that he should find no encouragement
in the short "good-morning" that I called
to him. The truth is, I had given him as wide
a berth as I could possibly contrive since the
hour when he had unfolded his scheme to me of
capturing the half-blood. I had made up my
mind on the matter, and therefore had no desire
to hear him again on it. Indeed Miss Grant's
advice had so worked in me that my attitude
was perhaps more resolved and more sharply

accentuated than the occasion demanded. In
short, it entered my head that for all I could tell
the captain's scheme might finds its way to the
forecastle ; by what agency of course I could
not have indicated, for I was sure that Gordon
was not a man to talk. But, nevertheless, I
knew that on shipboard there is a species of
wizardry at work in the atmosphere, by whose
operations the crew do somehow or other
manage to obtain a dim intelligence of what
passes even in whispers in the cabin ; and I
was resolved that if the captain's proposal to me
should come to be guessed at by the sailors, or
reach their knowledge in the indefinable manner
in which news creeps through a ship at sea, they
should perceive that I had no sympathy with
it ; which was only to be managed by letting
them infer my opinion of Breakwater by my
behaviour to him on deck.

It was a gloomy breakfast-table. The morning
lay so foggy upon the skylight that I could
scarcely distinguish Miss Grant's features without
leaning towards her. There were fiddles
on the table, but the quick rolls of the brig
rendered them useless. A plate of bacon was

capsized on to Breakwater's knees, and I
narrowly escaped being badly scalded by the
sudden fetching away of the skipper's huge
tea-pot, which to one sharp heave jumped like a
live thing over the divisions, and poured its
contents in a boiling stream within a couple of
inches of my right leg.

''If we were not clear of the Gulf Stream,"
said I, "this should make a man believe himself
in the heart of it."

What's the matter with the Gulf Stream,
sir'' said Breakwater, " supposing this was it ?"

'' You have heard, I suppose," said I, almost
amused by the excessive sourness in his face,
'' of vessels sailing with royal and studding-sails
into the belt, and meeting ships coming out of
it under close-reefed topsails ? "

** Well, 1 nay have heard of it, as you remark,"
he exclaimed ; " but I haven't been going to sea
all these years to believe all I hear at this time
o' day."

There was a note of insolence in the old chap's
voice that instantly started me on addressing
Miss Grant with the completest air of unconsciousness
of his presence that I could

command. Once I caught his eye, and the
gleam of it was not a little malevolent, minute
as the puncture was through which he stared.
How unusually quarrelsome and bad-tempered
he was this morning was to be noticed in his
way of speaking to the cabin-boy. It was
inconceivable that the poor lad should be able
to cut anything but an intolerable figure on that
staggering deck, and it was quite wonderful that
he managed to scrape through his business ot
bringing the dishes along and waiting on us
without breaking his neck, not to speak of what
he carried. But Breakwater found him unendurable,
heaped abuse on him whenever he had
sufficiently emptied his mouth to furnish scope
to his tongue, and finally exploded in a whole
volley of coarse and brutal terms, which caused
Miss Grant to half rise from her chair with a
look at me to hand her to her cabin. But the
old fellow left his seat at that moment and
staggered on deck, with a farewell shake of his
fist under the hapless boy's nose, whereupon
my companion resumed her place.

Gordon arrived, looking gray in the twilight
of the cabin, and wretched with the dogged

melancholy that hung upon him. He knuckled
his forehead with a dismal gesture to Miss
Grant, sat down and helped himself to a bit of
beef, with the air of a man walking in his sleep.
This indeed, to a certain extent, had been his
mood ever since the night of the apparition of
the luminous bow, but it was so accentuated this
morning that the dolefulness of it was absolutely
grotesque.

"It seems tome, Gordon," said I, 'that a glass
of three-finger rum and one-finger water would
do you more good than that black fluid you're
about to drink. The weather, I admit, is enough
for the moment to make life appear as if it where
formed of nothing but yellow fog and bilious
dots. But, my good fellow, there is really no
need for such a mute-like face as yours, as
though you had taken a fancy to a hearse's
plume to embellish your sour-wester with, and
were rehearsing the proper cast of countenance
for it."

He rolled up his eyes to the skylight, and
then gazed at me with the languishing expression
of a sick man, but did not speak.

Of all the most miserable voyages," I

continued, " recorded or unwritten, I'll venture
to declare this tops the list."

'* Pray don't say so, Mr. Musgrave," exclaimed
Miss Grant. " Think of fire, famine, shipwreck,
the uninhabited coast, or worse still, the coast
inhabited by savages."

This voyage ain't over yet," said Gordon, in
the voice of a raven.

'* I don't say it's calamitous!' I went on.
** Indeed, but for the consideration that your
safety and comfort are involved, I should be
much too happy to wish the voyage over." She
smiled, and inclined her head to this as a mere
commonplace of courtesy, and indeed I easily
saw that she made nothing of it, and suspected
nothing in it, from the serenity and steadfastness
of her gaze. '' Yet," I continued, '' we must call
it miserable. As if a fit of superstition ending
in the suicide of a seaman shouldn't suffice, there
comes the barbarous punishment of lashing a
man to the mast. As though that were not
enough, mutiny must follow, along with a horrid
murder. And now here is Breakwater this
morning with every instinct of bad temper and
brutality in him forking out like the claws of a

cat at sight of a dog ; whilst on top of all sits
my good friend there, bowed down by some
sort of speechless woe, for which I am sure that
there is no remedy but a good pull at one of
my choice old brandy bottles."

I started up, meaning to fetch the liquor,
but he arrested me with a solemn wave of the
hand.

'' No, sir," he exclaimed, " there's nothing in
brandy to do me good. It isn't zuoe that's a-
writing me. What it be I'm sure I can't tell.
I believe the capt'n's clean off his head this
morning. He came up a-cursing of you to me
just now as if he'd imagined you and the half-blood
was gone into partnership to take his
life."

Do you suppose he thinks this ? " I cried,
startled.

No, no, sir," he replied ; " I said as if he
did. There's no telling what passes in such a
mind as his."

I do not see that his fancies, whatever they
may be, need trouble us," said Miss Grant
quietly.

** No," I exclaimed ; " it's not the captain's

mind ; it's your face, Gordon. Turn to and
give yourself a good hearty shaking, my lad,
and so get rid of the long shore humour that's
come to you with a view of the finest sight that
ever mortal eye rested on. Why, man, we look
to you for the only gleam of sailorly jollity
that's to be witnessed aboard this old hooker.
It was but the other day that you were laughing
at the notions that dispatched the poor fellow
Jesse Cooper over the side. Shake this temper
out of you, Gordon."

He passed the back of his hairy hand over
his forehead. " Well, sir," he exclaimed, " I
will if I can. I hope there's nothing in the
queer sensations that have come into me to
agitate the lady, I'm sure. I'm but a plain
sailor man, and never had no college to go to
but the fok's'le, and don't feel that I've got any
right to be sittings in the cabin of even such a
brig as this, a-talking to a lady and gent like
you and miss there. I'm sure I ask both of
your pardons if I've at all agitated either of ye
by my manner. Sailors are but mortal like
other folks ; ye know that, Mr. Musgrave.
The spirits of the heartiest of them will fail

at times. It'll all come right, I dare say," and
with that he left us.

Now all this, along with the darkness of the
weather, the drizzle on the skylight, the vile
tumbling of the brig, and the harsh groaning of
the labouring fabric, was surely enough to
render both Miss Grant and myself as gloomy
and depressed as poor Gordon himself. I
protest it made me feel exceedingly uncomfortable
to know that the captain had gone on deck
and abused me to the boatswain in terms which
it was easy for my imagination to fit to his lips.
One. felt that everything was wrong aboard the
brig, from the eyes of her to the transom, that
she was no better than a complicated trap, of
which if one piece of mechanism went wrong
there was half-a-score more whose action was
bound to be sure.

There was nothing to tempt one on deck. It
was Breakwater's watch below, but he remained
above throughout ; why, I could not imagine,
unless he was too irritable to rest in his cabin.
Thick as the weather was, it was daylight, and
one could see a mile at all events, and the risks
therefore were as nothing compared with those

of that black night on which the pig had broken
into my berth, and through which Breakwater
would have slept soundly, no doubt, but for the
uproar, as he had turned in very nearly drunk.
The atmosphere was close below, and the lee
skylight-lid lay open, and through it as I sat
conversing with Miss Grant, I could hear the
captain occasionally bawling in a voice whose
harsh, hoarse note struck upon the ear with
something of the smart of a blow from a missile
on the flesh. Once I heard the men sinning
out, and gathered from the orders delivered by
Gordon that they were trimming sail. The
motion of the brig however continued abominable,
spasms and throes of motion quite bewildering
to the brain at times, accompanied
by all sorts of ugly slopping sounds of water,
hysteric sobbing and gurgling swelling into a
semi-muffled, yearning roar as some windward
roll would send a billow howling from the side.
Reading was impossible ; there was nothing to
be made of chess or cards, and we could find
no better diversion than sitting and talking.

I think it must have been about noon w^h^n
I heard the captain's voice suddenly exerted ina

number of shouts in which he seemed to be
repeating the same orders over and over again,
but in the most angry, savage, threatening tones
that could be imagined.

What on earth can the wretched old man
be at now ? " said I. " I'll take a peep."

I threw a cloak over my shoulders, put on
my cap, and went on deck. Breakwater was
standing on the weather-side of the quarterdeck,
gripping the main-royal backstay, and
shouting to somebody on the fore, though I did
not immediately look that way. Gordon was
near the skylight, his hands buried in his coat-pockets,
and his dejected face sulkily staring
seawards with an air of petulant, gloomy unconcern
upon him, as of a man who had passed
through the stages of loathing and disgust into
contemptuous indifference. I walked right aft
so as to get out of the sphere of the skipper's
little eyes ; since, whilst I was anxious to see
what was going on, I was also disposed to fear
that if the old fellow caught me watching he
might fall foul of me in his present humour
before the sailors. I now noticed that the wind
had come a point or two more free since early

morning, and that the yards were braced into
that extent. The fore topmast studding-sail
had been set, but something was wrong with
the block at the extremity of the boom, and the
halliards had been slacked away and the sail
hauled in great part down upon the forecastle,
where it hung with the watch standing by ready
to hoist away afresh when the difficulty aloft,
whatever it was, had been remedied.

It is proper I should state here, for the information
of those to whom sea-terms are unintelligible,
that a studding-sail-boom is a long,
smooth spar that reeves through irons fixed
upon the yard to which it belongs, and that,
when the studding-sail is to be set, is run out
far beyond the ship's side for the extension of
the foot of the cloths. There is no gear attached
to it except the tack at the extremity, so
that 'tis for all the world like one of those
greasy poles which they project over the head
of a moored craft on a regatta day, for marine
Jack Puddings to walk out on.

Now as I stood near the wheel, the first
object I saw was the figure of the cabin-boy,
Billy, as he was called, jockeying the 

at the distance of some three or four
feet from the yard-arm. He was supposed to
be sliding out to the end of it — astride it as
though on horseback — but you saw at the first
glance that the poor creature was in a mortal
fright ; that having been urged by the captain's
threats to the point at which he had arrived, he
was too terrified to advance, whilst the purple
face of the old tyrant on the quarter-deck prohibited
him from returning. At any time such
a job as this would have been full of danger.
Even at anchor on the motionless surface of a
river, the task of sliding out to the extremity of
a long, naked, and slippery boom, would not
have been without its peril. The undertaking
was now rendered so prodigiously dangerous
by the peculiarly sharp, rapid, jerking, and dislocating
heaves, staggers, and rolls of the brig,
that the mere sight of the lad up there shocked
me as though he were hanging by the neck, or
being in any other way done to death by the
man who continued to bawl out menaces to him.
"By Heaven!" I cried, with the quick,
shuddering sensation of a recoil within myself,
so to speak, " he'll be overboard in a minute."

VOL. IL C

Yes, by the Everlasting ! but if he goes
for good, the one that'll follow him ain't fur
off," said a low voice close to my side. I
turned ; it was Charles, the half-blood, who was
standing at the wheel. I had not until this
moment noticed him. One laughs often at descriptions
in novels of the villain of the plot
hissing out his threats and imprecations through
his clenched teeth ; but I protest that though it
was impossible this man could have spoken
with his teeth clenched, his utterance had the
sharp, seething sound which is in the romancer's
mind when he endeavours to express it. I
started with a sudden uncontrollable shudder of
aversion, and went some yards forward.

Shove along out ! shove along out ! " roared
Breakwater, with an angry sweep of his arm
towards the extremity of the boom.

The hue of the sky against which the boy
swung was a dull and dingy slate, here and
there in it a deepening of shadow where some
dark cloud sailed above the haze ; and out of
the horizon, that seemed to welter within reach
of an arrow, the sea came running in short,
snappish, colliding leaps, with a quarrelsome,

hound-like shouldering of one another, and
fretful tossing of their heads of froth into the
air, the foam falling back like showers of snow
against the dingy background. The sailors
stared up at the lad, but though now one and
then another of them would make a movement
as if he were about to spring into the rigging,
no man offered to take the boy's place.

I don't believe however it was so much the
peril of the work that held the fellows in a body
looking on, as the feeling that the captain had
started the wretched boy on this business as a
work-up job," and that he would not permit
any other man to take his place. It was the
most barbarous piece of cruelty you could conceive
— out and away worse than the fastening
of the half-blood to the mast. It was not only
that the lad had not signed as a sailor, so that
the captain had no right to turn him to work of
that kind ; of all the people aboard the brig the
poor creature was the least qualified for so
perilous an undertaking as sliding out to the
extremity of a long boom that was buckling
and jumping like a coach-whip to the tumbling
vessel's thrash of spar and shear of yard-arm.


c 2

'* Out with you ! Shove along ! By thunder !
I'll make a travelled' of you with the end of the
tack ! I'll have ye hailed out and made two
blocks of and belayed if you don't bear a hand !
There's no ile in that timber — no use your a-
squeezing of it ! — so out ye go now ! — out ye
go!"

The white face of the lad turned towards
the captain, full of entreaty and terror. On a
sudden his cap blew off. Trifling as the thing
was, the mere sight of the headgear dropping
with a whirl into the sea and showing black an
instant ere smothered by a breaking wave, sent
a shock through me.

'* I can't get out, sir ; I can't indeed, sir,"
cried the boy in a most miserable, whining
voice. I noticed several of the men forward
staring my way, as though wondering whether
I meant to interfere, perhaps hoping to provoke
me to do so with their looks. But remonstrance
was too late, even if I had not satisfied
myself, by observing the temper old Broad-water
was in, that it would be idle. It was
quite plain that the lad was incapable of working
himself another foot along the boom ; and

it seemed to me, from the despairs, clinging
posture with which he hugged the spar, his
trousers ridden up to his knees, and his thin
legs and long naked feet swinging in sharp
relief against the haze past them, that terror
had rendered him incapable of returning. On
a sudden the brig pitched sharply, all aslant ;
then with a stagger recovered herself, instantly
following it by another sharp plunge and a
heavy seething of water beaten off her weather-bow.


Mind ! " I cried at this moment, " the boy
will be overboard."

As I spoke he swung under the boom, still
clinging to it with his legs and arms.

Come in ! come in ! " roared Gordon, rushing
forward ; '* you can manage it, my lad ; take
your time. Up aloft some of ye and help him."

Three men sprang into the shrouds, but
before they were five ratlines high the lad's
legs dropped, and he swayed at the boom with
his hands meeting upon it, his figure swinging
like the end of a rope. Half-a-dozen
throats shouted out as many suggestions.
Hold on, Billy ! We'll have a bowline for ye

MAROONED. chap.

in a moment ! " " Work your way in, Billy,
hand over hand, lad ! " '' Don't let go, for
Heaven's sake. There are men now running
aloft to help ye ! "

In God's name," I cried, making a spring in
my excitement towards Breakwater, " put your
helm down before he lets go, that the brig's
way may be checked when he's in the water ! "

He did not answer me, but if ever human
eyes flashed a curse at a man his did. There
was a life-buoy aft, seized to the rail in the good
old English style. Without a knife I could not
free it. A steel blade was flourished close to
my nose. " Here, sir, cut away with this ; it's
sharp enough for tougher stuff" than spaniards."
I seized the knife that the half-blood extended
to me from the wheel, severed the seizings, and
returned the weapon to the fellow, with a horror
springing into me even in that wild moment of
excitement, to the thought that it was the same
knife with which he had murdered the mate !
I looked forward ; the boy was gone, and the
boom reeled naked against the sky. At the
same moment, " Man overboard! Down helium !
down helium ! " came sweeping aft in a perfect

hurricane roar from the Hps of the seamen
gathered forward, and the deck re-echoed the
clattering of their feet as they came racing in a
body to the quarter-boat. I looked over the
side, and there on the quarter lay the boy on
his back floating with his arms out. I sprang
on to the rail to fairly heave the life-buoy, and
whilst I stood in that posture for the space of a
breath, I sazu the poor creature smile at me. I
vow to God it was a thing almost heart-breaking
in its way. It may have unnerved my
arm ; I know not, I am sure. I did my best,
flung the buoy with my full strength and as a
sailor would, but it fell far short of him ; and
though the half-blood ground the wheel down
till you would have thought that the passion of
the creature had given him strength to twist
the head sheer off the rudder it belonged to,
yet the lubberly bows of the brig came round
so leisurely against the conflicting beat of the
snarling and worrying seas, that the floating
figure seemed a mile off in less time than it
would have taken a man to put up a prayer
to God for him.

WE LOSE FOUR MEN.

Then happened a scene of bitter confusion.
Though the men, whilst they stood watching
the lad forward, must have guessed as clearly
as I what would happen, they had said nothing
; but now that the boy was overboard and
drowning, they broke into a hundred execrations
against the captain whilst they cast the
gripes of the lee quarter-boat adrift and cleared
away the falls ready for lowering. The uproar
was increased by Breakwater's vociferations to
them to bear a hand ; but each cry of his served
but as a challenge to the rage of the men, who
roared back every choicest flower of the forecastle
dialect which they could summon to
their lips. However, they worked nimbly for
all that, and in a few minutes the boat, with a

couple of men in her and Gordon in the
stern-sheets overhanging the stern as he fitted
the rudder to the pinches, was swinging at the
davits. " Lower away handsomely ! " The
little craft sank out of sight down the side,
and in a few minutes was leaping like an india-rubber
ball upon the seas, to the desperate drag
of the two fellows at the oars.

The shouts from the captain now brought
the sailors to the maintopsail brace, and whilst
the men were pulling at the ropes to get the
yards aback, hauling in a delirious sort of way.
with temper ringing menacingly in the songs
with which they accompanied their work, Miss
Grant arrived on deck, and spying me before 1
saw her, instantly approached with a hurried,
anxious, "What is it nozu, Mr. Musgrave ?"

"Why, another murder, bad as Bothwell's, if
there be justice in heaven to decide ! " I cried,
for I was thinking of the drowning lad's smile
at the moment, and the mere having to tell her
what had happened made me feel as mutinously
savage as, I warrant me, the darkest-minded of
the men who were running about.

She brought her hands together in a gesture

of terror ; there was real fear in the eyes with
which she swept the sea. She seized me by the
arm, and exclaimed with a shuddering glance
towards Breakwater, *' Another murder do you
say, Mr. Musgrave ? Oh, if so — if so — " and
then she stopped with a bewildered stare at
the jumbled roll of green seas that came with
staggers which shook them into snow out of
the windward thickness.

I had shocked and startled her from the
brave hold she had hitherto kept upon her
feelings, and could have cursed myself for my
brutal, uncouth candour. '' I have put it too
strongly," I cried, eager to subdue in her eyes
something of that light of horror and fear which
gave a kind of madness to their beauty. '' It is
not murder in the sense you think it. It is but
another act of miserable cruelty which I fear
must end in the death of our cabin-boy."

'tell me about it!" she exclaimed, in a
breathless way, securing her hold of my arm by
clasping the fingers of both hands upon it.

I related the incident as swiftly as I could
speak it, and I do not think I shall ever forget
the look of tragic loathing and indignation in

her face when she turned to glance at Broad-water
over her shoulder as he stood on the
other side of the deck, huskily bawling instructions
to the crew.

Where is the boat ? " she cried impetuously.

I pointed in the direction in which I had last
seen it, and walked right aft with her and peered
into the windy thickness, but could see no signs
of the little fabric ; nothing like it saving a
darker ride of orreen here and there which
would melt into foam even as I watched. I
abhorred the obligation of having to address the
half-blood, but excitement was working in me
like a fever, and I could think of little more
than that the boat which I had in full view a
minute or two before Miss Grant came on deck
was now out of sight.

Do you see anything of her ? " I said to him.

She went out of sight on a sudden," he
answered. " She's afloat right enough I reckon ;
the mist will have swallowed her up." He
leaned from the wheel, pointing with a small,
beautifully-shaped, but discoloured hand out to
sea upon the weather quarter.

The brig's way was stopped, so far at least as

forging ahead went ; but of her leeward trend
dead along the path of the wind the nimbleness
might be gathered by looking over the side,
where you saw the oil-like smoothness left by
her to the distance of a pistol-shot, beyond
whose verge the seas were breaking as though
they were kept at bay to that point by a coating
of oil upon the waters. I thought Broad-water
must be stark mad to keep his brig
hove-to under a press which every moment
was driving her deeper into the obscurity that
hid us from the boat as she was hidden from
us by it. The vessel was under royal and
flying-jib, and to such a surface, helped as the
fabric also was by the seas, our drift would be
rapid beyond endurance ; yet not a sheet was
started or a halliard let go. The old man stood
on the weather-side, leaning upon the rail, and
fixedly gazing seaward under the thatch of his
sour-wester ; forward, both watches — the whole
of the crew in short, as many of them as were
left — overhung the bulwarks pointing and talking,
with one man half-way up the fore-shrouds,
swinging out from a ratline, and his left hand
shading his eyes as he bent his gaze at the

brownish drizzle upon the near horizon. Five
minutes passed ; nothing was done, and nothing
said that reached our ears. The captain held
his motionless posture, staring as though
fascinated. One heard nothing but the
wearisome sobbing and plashing of waters,
the yeasty seething of brine to the chop
of the cutwater forward, the simmering of
foam hissing in recoil from the smart shock
of the descending counter, with the cheerless
clank of wheel-chains and jar of rudder, the
melancholy clatter of wet spare booms, the
rushing noise of wind aloft to the drunken
weather lurches of the brig. Suddenly old
Breakwater sprang erect from his squared
arms, and came rolling along to where we
stood.

See anything of the boat, sir ? " he cried.

Nothing," I answered, scarcely able to tell
him so, for my aversion almost overpowered my
faculty of speaking.

** Forward there," he bawled, turning his
face towards the forecastle, ** any one amongst
ye see anything of the boat ? "

*' Nothing," came back the response, in so

sulky a swing through the wind, that it made
one think of the sudden dead flap of a sail in
the midnight obscurity of an electric storm that
has not yet burst. The old man struck his hip
violently with the flat of his hand, drove both
fists deep into his pockets, then started as if to
walk, but changed his mind, and came to the
rail again, and stood looking with a creeping
consternation in his face, before which one saw
the temper in it fading away.

My feelings made me reckless. I said to
him roughly and defiantly, " You'll lose your
boat if you don't strip your ship. Do you
know, man, that you're driving dead to leeward
at the rate of three or four miles an hour ? "

He sent a glance at the half-blood before
answering me, and then in a half choked voice
gasped out with an oath, " If there's a mutiny,
you'll be the ringleader! I knows ye; I've
been following of ye. Vote teach me my
business ! " He pulled his fist out of his pocket
to shake it in my face. I at first imagined by
this gesture that he meant to attack me, and
quickly released Miss Grant's hold that I might
be ready for him. Muscular as he was, with

no lack of weight ''of beef" in him, as sailors
say, I believe he would have found his match
in me at that moment ; for his charging me
with being the ringleader of a mutiny was an
insult to make fire of blood running by luck of
disposition in a much gentler stream than mine,
I am sorry to say, ever did. But very quietly
Miss Grant stepped in front of me, and the
old fellow, with a second look at the half-blood,
rolled over to the companion, where he stood
a few moments staring seawards, and then with
an air of sudden hurry vanished below.

He reappeared after a brief absence, grasping
an old blunderbuss, the bell-shaped muzzle
of which was almost big enough to have received
his head. He ran to the bulwarks with
it close to where we stood. I confess I was
not a little alarmed by the sight of so formidable
a weapon in the hands of this enraged old
man, and I watched his movements with no
small anxiety, as I could not imagine what he
intended to do with the piece. On a sudden
he lifted the stock to his shoulder, drooped his
pear-shaped nose over the trigger, and screwing
up one eye as though he were taking aim

at a bird in the air, let fly. The explosion
could not have been more noisy had he discharged
a swivel cannon, and the recoil of the
piece was so violent that it came very near to
flinging him on to his back. However, I perceived
that his object was to signal the brig's
whereabouts to the boat, and I should have
been glad to help him by discharging another
musket, or blunderbuss, if the brig owned a
second, but was kept quiet by the memory of
his insult, and by the expression of ugly temper
upon his face. When he had discharged the
gun, he whipped out a great powder-flask and
proceeded to reload, but poured in so much
powder, whilst he rammed in so large and
stubborn a lump of newspaper, that all in silence
I took Miss Grant by the hand and led her
some distance forward, where on the other side
of the deck, should the crazy old weapon explode,
we would be out of reach of the flying
fragments. Having charged his blunderbuss,
he approached the rail again, and taking aim
at some imaginary object with as much solicitude
of posture, indeed, as if he was shooting
grouse or snipe, and screwing up. his left eye so

tightly, that I burst into a laugh at the sight of
that side of his face, showing in a sort of purple
burr of wrinkles against the rusty barrel and
the dull leaden shadow beyond, he pulled the
trigger a second time. The piece exploded
with a great blaze of light, and the blast of a
lite thunder-shock, and down he tumbled to it,
quite as I had expected ; only instead of measuring
his length, he smote the deck heavily with
his hams, and preserved a sitting posture, with
the blunderbuss across his knees, and his face
full of astonishment and anger.

Presently he rose and put the firearm on the
skylight, and went to the rail. He stared long
and earnestly, then shouted to the men forward
to know if they saw anything ; afterwards gaped
aloft his canvas, with a slow bringing of his
eyes down to where we stood. But for the
temper and brutality of the man I should have
felt sorry for him.

Do you think he will be able to recover the
boat ?" i\Iiss Grant asked.

I fear not," I answered, " unless the weather
should miraculously clear within the next
half-hour ; and even then the chances should

VOL. II. D

be all against recovery, unless the old fool
promptly shortened sail down to his topsails —
nay, down to bare poles."

But surely, Mr. Musgrave, we are not
likely to lose the boat ? "

"At sea things grow horribly serious in a
minute," said I.

I crossed with her again to the weather-rail,
and telescopic my hands, sent a long, long
searching look into the length of the dingy
shadow of mist, a little way past the line of
which one saw the phantasmal welter of the
seas and the scarce determinable flash of foam,
vague as an outline in still dark waters, to where
they melted into the blindness of the haze. The
first clamorous wrath of the men forward had
been changed, by waiting and peering, into a
sort of angry uneasiness. There were nine of
them ; they hung in a row along the bulwarks,
one repeatedly leaning boards to look past
another aft at the skipper, as though full of
sullen, irritable wonder at this waiting and
drifting scheme of his. But he made no sign.
He went to the binnacle, and lifting the hood
laid the sharp of his hand across the card,

as though seeking to arrive by memory at the
bearings of the boat. I suspected in him some
trick of seamanship above my knowledge in
his keeping the vessel under all plain sail hove-to
; but I could not bring myself to address
him.' Ten minutes passed — ten minutes of
silence along our decks — all of us meanwhile
staring our hardest to windward, not a syllable
coming from forwards to break the dreary
washing noises of water, and the sounds of the
restless straining of the jerking, rolling, and
plunging brig. On a sudden, Breakwater roared
out, '' Swing the maintopsail-yard ! Sweat
everything fore and aft ! Get them jib-sheets
flattened in ! "

The sailors, eager to be doing, sprang to his
commands ; I quitted Miss Grant to help
them, and dragged with the gangs till the
yards were pointed to the wind as far as they
would go ; but there were no songs. Here
and there a fellow would raise a low monotonous
yowling that the others might take time from
his notes ; but there was no cheeriness in
the sailors' voices, and such few cries as were
raised were more like the melancholy groaning

D 2

of sufferers than the hearty piping of seamen
at work. The maintain was boarded
in silence, and the jigger clapped on to such
sheets and running gear as demanded the
extra purchase, as though the brig's company
consisted of undertakers' mutes. The wind
seemed to come fresher now that the vessel
was looking up to it close-hauled, and under
the great pressure of her cloths she lay over
until her lee-channels were awash amid the
smother of spume there, though it was the
mere spluttering of her round bows throwing
the heads of the seas into cataracts from her
that made the tumbling whiteness alongside ;
for I question if her progress, jammed as she
was till the weather-leeches of her royal and
topgallant-sails were hollowed aback, was as
great as her drift had been when her topsail
was to the mast.

It was clear now that the captain's intention
was to " ratch " for the boat, as he himself
would have termed it — by which I mean that
it was his design to beat to windward in short
tacks in the direction in which the boat had
last been seen ; and maybe he had kept full

I

sail on the briQ^ for the convenience of handling
her promptly, although I held to my opinion
that he had blundered grievously in holding
her under cloths that must have Qrlven her a
drift of hard upon a league since he had first
hove her to. It was past two o'clock, and
as I saw there was no chance of getting any
dinner that day. I procured some refreshments
from our private stock, and ]\Iiss Grant and
I made a hurried, uncomfortable meal in
the cabin. Even whilst we sat there
Breakwater put the brig about again, and
as I felt that it was my duty to help him in
such an extremity as this, I hastened on
deck and assisted the men in pulling and
dragging. The breeze had freshened yet,
the seas were running more steadily, but
the blank around the horizon had thickened,
and there was a deeper shade in the dinginess
on hiorh that made it look as If It floated
with a stoop towards our masts ; but there
was no break in it, no faintest flaw for the
lio^ht behind to steal through, whilst the first
weak drizzle of it had thickened into a small,
fine rain — so warm that you did not feel the

moisture until the wind had chilled it — which
blew transversely in horizontal lines over the
bow, sometimes clouding up Into a gush of
white smoking mist like a burst of steam
from a boiler, that made a blind stare of the
look of the sea till the plunge of the wind
with a long cry drave it clear of us.

It was no weather for Miss Grant to show
herself on deck in, but she declined to
remain below ; so I made her as snug as
I could with wraps and a waterproof-cloak,
and she remained by my side, searching the
cold, green, frothing tumble for any black
speck that should denote the boat, as all
hands of the rest of us did. Whenever
Breakwater had his tacks aboard, he sent a
couple of hands aloft to the fore and main-topmast
cross-trees, with two more In the
fore and main rigging just under the tops,,
and many an earnest glance would I direct
at the men in the hope of detecting in the
posture of any one of them that his attention
had been taken, and that he would be singing
out in a minute and pointing. The misery
of that time comes back to me strongly. It

is not in my pen to express the quality of
depressing melancholy that was put into that
thick, sombre damp day, with its cheerless
whistling and howling of wind aloft, and the
gray sails darkening yet to the beating of the
rain, and the chill and stormy washing of water
from the bows of the vessel, by thoughts of the
lost boat away out in the darkening gloom
yonder, and of the anguish of expectation and
fear that would fill the minds of the men in her,
as, riding to their oars — for they would have
long since abandoned the labour of rowing —
they leaned over the low gunwale, peering
past each green, glimmering curl of sea for
any smudge upon the wall of vapour that
had closed around them which should indicate
the presence of our brig.

They would, of course, be without food or
water. Small chance of any such discipline as
Breakwater was equal to providing in this way
for the hurried dispatch of a vessel's boats !

*' Do you think," Miss Grant said to me,
"that the poor fellows will be able to live in
such a sea as this ? "

Impossible to say," I replied, with a look

at the remaining boat that was of the size
and shape of the other ; '' every wave has
had a snappish run throughout. Yet the men
are sailors, and will know how to manage if
management be practicable. I wonder if they
picked up the boy."

I fear the worst," she exclaimed, with a
tremble in the parting of her lips to the sweep
of the breeze, whilst from the whiteness of
her face amid the twilight of her hood that
covered her head, her dark eyes shone out
bright with a light that was feverish with
brilliance.

'' Why ? " I asked.

I believe this to be the fulfilment," she
answered, " of Gordon's prophetic melancholy.
It was the shadow of this event that lay
upon him."

I shook my head. " There was no prophetic
depression in the other two ; at least one
may reasonably suppose so. Of the three,
probably Gordon was the most prosaic.
Why, since there were four men to perish
to-day — supposing that they do perish — I
include the cabin-boy — why, I ask, to one of

them only should the future whisper ? No,
no ; Gordon would have been gloomy whether
this wretched business had happened or
not."

I fear the worst for them," she persisted.
Is not the air darkening rapidly, too ! Should
the night fall without our sighting them — oh,
Mr. Musgrave, what a dreadful fate ! — what a
dreadful fate ! "

She swept her hands to her eyes, but dropped
them quickly, and running to the rail gazed
seawards ! and I think had the hour been one
of gravest peril to ourselves, instead of to the
poor fellows tossing about somewhere out in
the windward bleakness, I must have found
a moment to admire — and with a stirring of
wonder in my admiration too — the character of
tragic beauty her face took with the grief, and
pity, and eagerness in it, as the flash of the
wind swept her hood clear of the soft brown of
her disordered hair, and left her lineaments
plain against the green hills, and blowing froth,
and shadowy steep of the scene of heaven and
ocean beyond.

The gathering darkness which she had

noticed before I did was to prove a squall.
You heard the long moan of it ere it had leapt
clear of the near haze, and revealed its approach
by the glaring rush of waters at its base.
Already Breakwater was carrying on till the
covering-board was flush with the water over
the side. " Let go royal and t gallant halliards ! "
he bawled. '* Down flying jib, up mainsail ! "
and as these last words left his mouth the
squall struck the vessel. I had foreseen one
consequence, and had provided against it by
whipping a rope's-end round Miss Grant's
waist, otherwise, to the sudden, fierce inclination
of the deck, she must have fallen to leeward
as one might slip down the roof of a house.
The angle was so extreme that it was almost
impossible to stir. The halliards had been let
go, but the slope of the masts prevented the
yards from travelling. " Over with the helm !
over with the helm ! " shrieked Breakwater. I
sprang to the lee-spokes to assist the fellow
who had relieved the half-blood, and who,
though he was straining with set teeth, seemed
unable to stir the wheel by so much as a
spoke. It was now a picture of giddy commotion

and bewildering uproar for a long five
minutes. The brig was so pressed down, that
though we had got the helm jammed hard up,
I feared for some moments that she would not
pay off. You saw the yeast blowing like cream
over the lee-rail, and it was like soapsuds, as
high as a man's waist, the whole length of the
lee-scuppers. Sheets had been slackened away,
or let go, and the rattle of canvas shook the
vessel to her heart. The squall was a heavy
one, and it blew with a voice of thunder out
of the thickness ; and what with the roaring
sound of the blast on high — an independent
noise that dominated all other sounds with
the violent ring of gusts or guns echoing
through the rushing wind — and what with the
slapping of liberated folds of canvas, the hollow
blows of seas upon the exposed weather-side
of the hull, Breakwater's shouts, the cries of
the men, it was a scene that might have made
even an old sailor think it about time to goto
prayers. Fortunately however the captain's
wits were equal to an emergency of this kind.
He bellowed lustily indeed, but his orders were
right. On the mainsail being hauled up, and

the trysail smothered, the brig paid off, and as
she recovered something of an even keel, whilst
she gradually presented her stern to the wind,
the yards descended the masts, instantly relieving
the heavy strain up there ; and before it
we bowled — though towards what quarter of
the sea I never thought of looking — with top-savoyards
on the caps, the topgallant-sails and
royal blowing out like flags from the grip of
their clew lines and leech-lines, with the hauled-down
jibs making the booms buckle again to
the heavy dance of the folds, which the pitch
of the vessel would souse and bring up streaming
till the air beyond the head was white from
the foam ripped away from them by the wind.

However, though full of weight and spite, it
was but a squall, and the scream of it had
presently fined down into the familiar moaning
of the early blast. The brig's company was
now a short-handed crew for the work that was
to be done, and as every pair of hands was of
the utmost consequence, I sang out to Broad-water
from the wheel that I should be happy,
if he had no objection, to stick to the post,
that the man whose trick it was might assist

the others. He assented with a wave of his
hand. Miss Grant came and stood beside me.
The crew worked with a will, thinking perhaps
that the lives of the men in the boat away out
upon the dirty, shrouded jumble — though God
knows where they would be now — might
depend upon their smartness. But it was
three-quarters of an hour before the sailor
whom I had relieved came to take the wheel
from me again, by which time the brig was
once more close-hauled under topsails, ,
foresail, and trysail, eating her
way into the thickness, that was denser than
ever it had been at any other time of the day,
and that was already deepening in shade to
the gathering shadows of an early night above
it. Yet till the close of the second doe-watch
Breakwater went on ratchino- in short boards,
the men working without a murmur, without any
hint of mutinous reluctance in their movements,
for the hope they yet had of surging within
sight of the boat. But at eight o'clock it was
black night — the blacker for rain and haze —
the seas were shouldering blocks of gloom,
with wan glares of foam here and there, and

a smart rattling of wet flinging to the ear like
discharges of musketry from the obscurity along
the waist to the forecastle.

I was then below with Miss Grant, both of
us as wearied as if we had shared in the toils
of the seamen, and as anxious about the lookout
as we were depressed by the incidents of
the day. But for our private stock of provisions,
no food would have crossed our lips,
for the cook had been called from his galley to
help work the ship ; no man had been told off
to wait upon us aft, and we must have gone
to bed after a fast lasting from breakfast, but
for the tins of cooked delicacies, the tongues,
biscuits, and wines I had been wise enough to
liberally provide ourselves with.

It was two bells in the first watch when
Breakwater came below. I had long before
trimmed and lighted the cabin-lantern, and was
sitting at the table near Miss Grant smoking
a cheroot, and endeavouring to extract a little
cheerfulness of mind out of a glass of brandy-and-water.
This was the first time the captain
had left the deck since he had fetched his old
blunderbuss. He threw down his sours wester

that was streaming with wet, pulled off his
shaggy pea-coat, which sparkled to the lantern-light
with the moisture upon it as though it
were crystallized, and all in silence opened a
locker, took out a knife and fork, a large cube
of corned beef upon a tin plate, a couple of sea-biscuits,
a bottle of rum, and a tin pannikin ;
and then sitting down, squared his elbows and
fell to with the avidity of a famished hound,
never offering to speak. However, it was
ridiculous to suppose that I was to be kept in
ignorance of such arrangements as he had made,
and such schemes as he had decided upon ; and
as it was no moment to recall his insult, I
waited until he had finished his supper, particularly
keeping silent until he had drained his
pannikin, and then said bluntly, " I suppose
you've given up all hope of finding the
boat?"

"All hope," he answered huskily, taking a
surly squint at me with his little heartless
eyes.

"You are now without a mate," said I, feeling
Miss Grant's hand coming to my arm with
a sudden pressure of her fingers to the uncontrollable

dismay which followed Broad-water's
hopeless answer. " You are now in a
quandary, and can command me if you like."

Command ye in what way ? " he answered,
filling his pannikin afresh.

I'll take the mate's berth if you choose,
but of course only to the extent of helping you
in the navigation of the vessel."

'' Thanked," he answered, in his roughest
manner. '' I hope to be able to do without
you."

I'm very glad indeed to hear it," said I, and
indeed I spoke the truth. '' But you surely
do not intend to keep a look-out day and night
alone ? " I added, for it seemed to me unimaginable
that he should find a man forward

o

fit to entrust the charge of the brig to whilst
he was taking rest.

He appeared to struggle with his temper, as
though he could not force his inclination to
answer me through his bad and sullen humour.

Miss Grant suddenly said, " Captain Broad-water,
we have a 7'i£'/i^ to know what measures
you have taken for our safety." Her imperious
look appeared to affect him as a command.

"You'll not suppose, mum"' said he, " that I
should be down here a-taking of it easy, with
the idea'' he continued, dragging his great
watch out and looking at it, *' of turning in ina
few minutes for a snatch of rest, if I hadn't
left matters ship-shape up above," with a jerk
of his thumb at the deck.

I am glad you have found somebody you
can trust," said I.

'■' I essay ye are," said he, '"' and so am I,
I'm sure ; " and then rising and returning the
remains of his supper and his bottle of rum to
the locker whence he had extracted them, he
picked up his coat and sour-wester and went to
his berth.

It mio^hthave made the stoutest-hearted man
feel a bit nervous to learn that this brie was
virtually abandoned by her captain to her crew,
who were full of mutiny and hatred of him,
whilst h€ lay snoring below. Of course, seeing
how matters had come about, Breakwater could
not help himself ; by which I mean that it was
impossible for him to remain in sole charge of
the deck night and dav until Rio was reached ;
therefore, since he would not let me act as mate

VOL. II. E

and it was quite conceivable that the old fool
may have imagined me as mutinously disposed
towards his discipline as he had that afternoon
insolently affirmed me to be — it was necessary
for him to appoint some forecastle hand to the
post ; but it was a sort of surrender that filled
me with uneasiness. I did not attempt to conceal
my fears from Miss Grant ; indeed she
understood the danger of our situation as well
as I.

"Any man," I exclaimed, 'would scarcely
conceive it possible that an old sea-captain such
as Breakwater should coolly go to bed and,
supposing he sleeps till midnight, leave his brig
absolutely at the mercy of her crew till then —
at the mercy of a set of men whose hatred of
him all through must have been immeasurably
heightened to-day by his barbarous treatment
of the poor cabin-boy, and the loss of men that
followed. But then, what is the wretched old
creature to do ? He must get some rest during
the twenty-four hours, or else entirely lose the
very little sense that he was born with. I'll
step on deck and see if I can make out who it
is that has charge."



It was a black night. The brig had been
brought to her course again, though no doubt
some men in Breakwater's situation would have
kept their vessel hove-to till dawn, in the hope
of picking up the missing boat. The dusk was
too thick to enable me to make out what canvas
we were under. There was not much weight
of wind however, but it was charged with
damp, and one found a heaviness in it for that
reason perhaps when the weather-roll of the
vessel brought it in a gust to the face. I walked
right aft to the helm, unable to distinguish
anybody on deck, then caught sight of the face
of a man named Andrew Wilkins, who stooped
his head at the moment into the yellow sheen
flowing out of the binnacle to ore a better view
of the card.

I said to him, " Who has charge ? "

Why, the blooming cook," he answered,
with a low laugh.

The cook ?"' I cried, thinking he joked.

He laughed again, but without merriment,
and said, "Yes, sir; it's old Draining as is boss
just now."

'where is he?" said I, drawing away from

E 2

the glare of the binnacle-lamp to look into the
darkness forward ; but it was not to be
penetrated.

'' Somewheres to windward, sir, if he ain't
gone and turned in," he answered.

I was in the act of groping my way to the
weather-side, when it flashed upon me that I
might be acting rashly in showing uneasiness
or exhibiting inquisitiveness ; so I just said in a
careless voice to the fellow at the wheel, " 'Tis
strange for a captain to go to the galley for a
chief mate. Perhaps the cook may have been
a shipmaster, forced by adversity into boiling
beef for sailors. I suppose he would know
what to do should heavy weather come along ? "

'' I heard the capt'n tell him what to do," \
answered the man. " Should anything happen,
he's to hammer the deck with a handspike
over the capt'n's head. That's about as much
as can be expected of a cook."

Well," said I, " this is a queer sort of voyage
anyhow, as the Yankees would say. Goodnight."
And with that I made my way to the
hatch, looking into the blackness on the weather-deck
for the cook's figure, but without seeing

him, though I don't say he was not there, for
the sky was of a raven hue ; the very substance
of the quarter-boat melted into it, and the eye
sought in vain for a Hne of shroud, or for any
faintest configuration of canvas on high.

The cook in command ! '"' cried Miss Grant,
when I gave her the news ; " it is ridiculous !
. . It is dreadful, Mr. Musgrave!"

1 thoLiQrht so too, though I could not forbear
a laugh at the very fancy of it, spite even of
the rebuke my momentary merriment found in
the startled expression of her eyes.

'' I suppose," said I, " that he is the one man
on board who enjoys the captain's confidence.
He may be the only creature honestly disposed,
for all we know, and let us believe that Broad-water
has guessed it. After all, I dare say he
is as well able to keep a look-out as any other
man in the vessel ; and absurd as the notion is,
yet on reflection I believe old Breakwater to be
right for once, and that our slumbers are more
likely to be secure with [Master Cooked stumping
the quarter-deck with a hand spike ready to
thunder the skipper into vigilance, than were
one of the sailors in charge."

However, though after sitting together
another hour I induced her to withdraw to her
cabin, it took me a long while to persuade myself
to follow her example, and by that time it
was hard upon midnight. Once or twice I
looked through the hatch, but the blackness as
before hung extraordinarily thick ; there was
nothing" to be seen, and the wet in the wind
made me glad to return to the shelter of the
cabin. The brig rolled uneasily, but the motion
was comparatively steady, no longer the half-paralysing
jumps and souses of the morning
and afternoon. There was a heavy gloom
upon my spirits. It was not only the memory
of the sight of the cabin-boy clinging in terror
to the boom, Breakwater's red face full of
threats and menacing gestures, and the smile
the poor lad gave me as he swept astern ; there
was the thought of Gordon and the two fellows
in the boat ; the feelings that would be in them,
supposing them still alive, as they tossed in their
tiny cockle-shell upon the dark hills of sea,
without the leanest phantom of star for them to
rest their eyes upon, without a fragment of
biscuit to appease their hunger, or a drop of

fresh water to moisten their lips. These were
fancies to put such a chill into the atmosphere
of the cabin even, that one shuddered as to an
icy blast to the mere muffled hum of the wind
moaning in the rigging. I rose, for sitting
below was like keeping a watch without any
purpose in it ; and besides, if any one of the
sailors should peer through the closed skylights,
and spy me leaning with folded arms against
the bulkhead wide awake, it might enter the
minds of the whole of them to believe that I
was in league with the captain, practically
keeping a look-out for him, though covertly ;
and I tell you the mere idea of this sent me
to my cabin right off.

About ten minutes after I had tumbled into
my bunk I heard a dull pounding noise, and
instantly sat up in bed, not a little alarmed by
the strange unusual sound, until it occurred tome
that it might probably be the cook beating
with his hand spike over the captain's head to
arouse him. The lamp in my cabin was alight,
though I had dimmed it. To make sure of
that strange battering noise, I went softly to
my door and looked out. The door that shut

off the after-berths stood open, hooked to the
bulkhead, and I had a clear view of a great part
of the state cabin, including the companion-steps
past the table. After an interval of a
minute or two the pounding noise was repeated,
and now I was certain that it was the cook
beating with a hand spike'. I continued to peer,
showing however only as much of my head
past the door as enabled me to use my eyes,
for I had no mind to be caught keeping such a
look-out as this, either by Breakwater or anybody
else in the brig. At the same time I was
anxious to make sure that the captain responded
to the cook's summons, for I felt that it would
be possible for me to obtain some rest with the
knowledge that the captain had charge of the
vessel. A third time the cook pounded, on
this occasion very noisily, and with so many
hard thumps that one would have thought the
hands were caulking the decks, or, worse still,
endeavouring to beat some planks out. The
fellow was evidently growing impatient, and he
used his hand spike as though he meant to let
the captain know that he wanted to turn in.
Shortly after the third thunderous call, Broad-water

came out growling like an old dog, and
giving the cook a number of hard words, as
though indeed the man stood before him. But
first he rolled to his locker, muttering his abuse
of the cook without intermission, until he
silenced himself with a full pannikin of rum.
He then, after a slow look round, went on deck,
and I returned to my bunk ; but four bells had
struck before 1 fell asleep, so incessantly was I
haunted by the vision of the drowning lad, by
thoughts of the missing boat, by recollection of
the strange melancholy that had fallen upon
the spirits of Gordon, by contact as one might
say with the mysterious sheen of the cold bow
of light we had sailed through, and above all
by considerations of Miss Grant's and my
safety aboard this brig, with a drunken old
tyrant for captain, and a cook for chief mate,
and as ship's company a short-handed crew
charged to the throat with mutiny, with one
malignant and active principle of evil amongst
them in the shape of the half-blood, to whom
the Iron Crown's arrival at Rio or any other
port meant death.

I TAKE COMMAND.

I WAS awakened by a sharp, persistent
knocking on my cabin-door. " Who is there ? ''
I called out, scarcely yet awake.

** The crew wants a word with ye, sir," exclaimed
a deep-throated voice outside.

Eh, what's that?" I cried, instantly startled
into broad wakefulness.

The crew 'ud be glad to have a talk with
ye, sir," repeated the leather-lunged voice, the
tones of which, though I might have had some
memory of them had I heard them on deck,
sounded most harshly unfamiliar, even malevolent,
in the privacy and retirement of these
after-cabins.

'' All right," I exclaimed ; " give me a minute
or two to dress. Who are you ? "

i

*' Terence Mole, sir."

*' Ha ! " said I, " and where are the others ? "

All of 'em In the cabin, saving the chap
at the wheel, and Charles, who's keeping a
look-out."

There was broad daylight on the ocean, asa
glance through the scuttle assured me ; the
flash of sunlight came to the glass of the
screwed-up port In a fine-weather tremble off
the waters, with a commingling of atmospheric
blueness that made one know there was plenty
of clear azure overhead. It was natural that I
should wonder with all my might what the crew
could want with me as I dressed myself, but
not hastily ; for let what might have happened,
I was resolved to oppose an aspect at least of
composure to whatever might befall, and the
first condition of dignity was a leisurely observance
of the wish of the crew to see me. I
looked at my watch, punctually timed by everyday's
meridian, and found the hour ten minutes
to five. I dressed myself fully, lingering to
wash my face and hands and brush my hair ;
trifling things to talk about Indeed, but useful
to recall as an instance at all events of self-control,

which to this day I am proud to
remember ; for let me tell you, knowing the
posture of the men as I did, it was enough to
throw a heartier mind than mine off its balance,
to be suddenly aroused from a deep sleep by
the wooden knuckles of a sailor, and to collect
with a half-conscious ear from his harsh, gruff
accents that the seamen of the brig wanted a
word with me.

I stepped into the little passage with a glance
at Miss Grant's door, which was closed, though
I had no doubt she was wide awake within,
and had overheard the sailors' message to me.
There were eight men in the cabin, four of
them seated at the table ; the tall seaman,
Terence Mole, leaned against a stancheon with
his arms, naked to the elbows, folded upon his
breast ; the sixth — the cook— squatted at the
foot of the companion-steps ; two others marched
to and fro with their hands buried in their
breeches-pockets ; but they came to a halt when
they saw me. The novelty of the sight of
these rough fellows seated or lounging about
an interior which I, with a sailor's experiences
in me, knew that at ordinary times they would

think of, in their own sea-parlour, as a sort of
holy ground in which no foremast Jack was
ever to be heard of, unless he came to catch a
pig or to holystone the deck of it, was, I protest,
as much a shock in its way as if one of the
men to my approach had saluted me with a
levelled pistol. The eastern sunshine streamed
upon the skylight, and the place was full of
the brilliance of the morning. I noticed a sort
of shagged, haggard, worried look in two or
three of the hairy, weather-lined faces. Used
as I was to their attire of duck-breeches, loose
shirts, Scotch and other caps, and half-boots —
though some of them were unshod — yet the
mere presence of them in the cabin rendered
their garb as strange in my sight as if I had
never beheld it before, and I seemed to find in
the first presentment of them the most genuine
imaginable aspect of outlawry, abominably inconformity
with every fancy, recollection, or
imagination of mutiny that could occur to an
observer. The fellows who were seated at the
table rose when I entered ; Mole quitted his
lounging attitude ; and the cook, a stout, pale,
sandy-haired, man, writhed himself on to his

feet off the ladder. I came to a stand a foot or
two In advance of the doorway which conducted
to the after-berths, that Miss Grant might hear
what I said, and gather from my language the
import of the speech of the others If their
syllables should not be always audible to
her.

What is It, men ?" I said.

Mole dropped his folded arms, and passed
the back of one great hand in a sort of smearing
gesture, awkward yet defiant too, across his
forehead, over which his hair lay thick as a
mat to his eyebrows.

'' We've thought it proper to tell you, sir,"
he exclaimed, '' that the capt'n's a-mlsslng."

Missing !" I cried ; "since when ? Do you
know ? "

The cook came forward, and said In a wheezy
voice, striking his chest as though he had taken
a chill there, " I was on booty, 'cording to
Casting Breakwater's orders, till midnight ;
then I thumped him up with a hand spike, his
instructions being I wasn't to leave the deck on
any account till he came. Well, he arrived,
and I went forwards and turned In. At four.

Mole here came to say that the capt'n must
have gone below, as notion was to be seen of
him. I says, ' That's odd, ain't it ? ' I says,
an' he so pertikler ! ' Jim here had had the
wheel since four bells, and I asked him if he'd
seen aught of the capt'n, and he says that at
six bells the skipper looked into the binnacle,
and then went forwards again out of sight, for
it had been as black all night as if a man
had gone dark himself, and after that I saw no
more of him."

"All that's right enough," said the sailor, to
whom the cook referred.

Have you looked for him ? " said I quietly,
for a sense of deep insincerity in all this
business was creeping into me, spite of the
cook talking like an honest man on his oath.

Everywhere saving them there cabins,"
answered Mole, pointing with his muscular
arm, blue with devices, to the after-berths.

There are but two cabins vacant," said I ;
come with me and look for yourself"

I threw open the door of the berth in which
were our private stock of provisions, then the
door confronting it, and motioning Mole to

precede me, returned to where I had before
been standing.

Of course you have searched his own berth
and those near it ? " said I.

First and foremost of all, naturally," responded
Mole.

What is your notion of the matter ? " I
asked.

Three of them answered together, " He's
overboard." Mole added, '' Ne'er a doubt of
it. It's all hands' opinion. He wasn't a man
to hide himself ; why should he ? " The half-caste
Ladova laughed in his throat. "If he's
aboard," continued Mole, " we should have
found him. We've so overhauled the old hooker
that had he been a rat we must have come
across him. Ain't that right, lads ?"

Ay, ay," came the reply in a short growl
from them all, and the cook in his wheezy
voice added, " If he bent gone to keep poor
Billy company my eyes ain't mates."

The suspicion of the insincerity of all this
had now grown into a strong conviction that
some black deed had been done since I took
my last view of Breakwater as he clambered

up the companion-steps. But along with this
conviction there came also clear perception that
I must not by word or look betray the merest
phantom of my thoughts, otherwise I should beheld
as incriminating as a witness, and dealt
with as one, I had no doubt. My secret agitation
was already sufficiently great to render the
assumption of an air of consternation easy. I
looked from one to another and cried, "Though
I never liked the captain, men ; though I don't
mind saying now that he was one of the most
tyrannical and ill-mannered shipmasters I ever
met or heard of in my life, yet his disappearance
is a blow to the lady and myself. The
brig is now without a commander, without a
mate, without even a bo'sun. How, think you,
did Captain Breakwater meet his end ? Was it
an accident, do you suppose ? He could not
have walked overboard." I shook my head.
'•' My lads," I said solemnly, " I don't doubt
but that he committed suicide. He was as a
madman all day yesterday — charged me, men,
me!' I cried, striking my breast with a passionate
gesture, 'with a desire to work up a mutiny
aboard ! A madman, mv lads ! a drunken

VOL. II. F

lunatic ! Not a shadow of doubt but he
destroyed himself in his watch on deck, urged
overboard, maybe, by the recollection of Gordon
and the poor lad and your two shipmates — of
all four of whom he has gone before his God
as surely the murderer as if he had slit
the throat of every man of them with his
own hand."

Mates," cried Mole, tossing his head to
clear the hair out of his eyes, and sending a
fiery glance from one to another of the seamen,
Mr. Musgrave's put it as there's ne'er a man
of us could have said it. I've been a seafaring
man eighteen years, man and boy, in all sorts
of craft, from the likes of this snorter " — he spat
upon the deck — " away up to the Atlantic
clippers ; but of all captains " — he raised his arm
with a face that darkened to the sudden fierce
restraint he put upon himself; " but he's gone,"
he added, letting his hand fall ; " committed
suicide, as you say, sir ; a thing most martinmas
all doubting in fact ; and here we are, Mi
Musgrave, to find out what's to do."

I could see with half an eye that the impression
I had sought to produce was mad(

I thrust my hands in a careless sort of way into
my breeches-pockets, and fell to pacing the
deck. "One thing' I exclaimed, "has followed
so fast on top of another, that though
there ought to be something staggering in
Captain Breakwater's suicide, I find," I said,
with a half-laugh and a shrug of the shoulders,
that it scarcely so much as surprises me.
But," I continued, addressing Mole, "you ask
what's to be done ? Have you and your mates
a scheme ? "

'' Well," he answered, speaking with return to
his first awkward, defiant manner, " when these
men and me, after giving the brig a thorough
overhaul, was agreed that the skipper was £'07iey
we turned to and asked one another what was
to be done. It didn't need much debating.
Its been understood all along forwards that you
were a sailor yourself equal to navigating a
ship, and so of course we at once settled upon
asking you to take charge."

I nodded, taking care to preserve a careless
manner to guard against exposure of the worry
in me that grew more and more consuming as
I listened.

F 2

You will take charge, sir ? " said Mole
interrogatively.

Certainly, if you wish it," said I.

He looked round at the others with a faint
inclination of his head, and continued, revolving
his cap in his hand with his eyes upon it : '' Next
consideration was, where to go." He looked
up at me without seeming to lift his eyelids.

Where to go ! " I cried, startled out of my
feigned posture of indifference by the fellow's
words. " We're bound to Rio. Shall we not
proceed there ? "

Every man of them wagged his head with a
sort of groaning " No ! no ! no ! " full of an unmistakable
note of emphasis.

We're all resolved not to sail the brig to
Rio," said Mole, in an aggressive way that was
like a surly hint to me not to argue the point ;
we've been turning the matter over, and as
we learnt from Mr. Gordon yesterday that our
latitude was a few degrees to the normans of
twenty, we've settled to ask you to navigate
the Iron Crown to the West Indies."

'the West Indies! You are naming a
number of islands which cover a wide area of



ocean," I answered coldly ; for it had come tome
like an inspiration that, if I valued my own
and bliss Grant's safety, I must consent to do
these men's bidding without so much as even a
falter in the speech in which I assented ; that
practically the brig was their's, and I and my
companion absolutely in their power ; and that
my sole policy was to appear as though I was
willing to be of them, though my approach
must exhibit a little natural hesitation. "What
part of — what island in the West Indies have
you in your mind ? "

'' Neighbourhood of Cuba," answered one of
the men.

'' Bill, leave it to me \{ yon please'* exclaimed
!Mole, turning upon the speaker with a frown.
'* Our notion is, sir," he continued, addressing
me with a touch of respect in his manner that
was not a little welcome, '' that you should
navigate the brig towards the island of Cuba,
and give us notice when we're within a day's
sail of it. mr. Musgrave," he continued, flinging
down his cap, extending his left hand and
resting the fist of the right one in it, *' you've
been a sailor yourself — you've seen what we've

suffered — you understand the situation we're inlet
it, sir, as between seafaring men, be
all plain sailing between you and us. There's
been murder done aboard this here craft as
you know, sir ; and," he proceeded deliberately,
almost grinding out the words as he delivered
them, '^ we don't intend that the man as
made away with Mr. Bothwell shall be took.
We don't want no interference. We don't intend
that the Iron Crown shall be boarded.
We don't mean to be laid hold of, and
charged with mutineers, and punished for it.
D'ye see that, Mr. Musgrave ? We've got no
idea of coming to any sort of harm that we can
provide against. What's d one's done / Notion's
happened but what's been deserved, sir — by
God, deserved, mates," he almost roared out,
striking his fist violently into the palm of his
hand ; then suddenly folding his arms upon his
breast, he added, in a changed voice charged
with menace, " That's the situation, sir, and we
want to know if you'll help us."

On certain conditions," said I.

That'll they be?" he exclaimed, quickly
and suspiciously.

I surveyed him a moment whilst I thought,
then held up one finger and said, " The lady
must have the same privileges of privacy which
she has enjoyed down to the present moment."

He took a view of the others, and bringing
his eyes slowly to mine said, " The lady's have
no call to be afraid of us, sir. She'll find us
sailors and 7nen.'' A grunt of assent from the
others followed this.

'^ Thank you for saying so," said I, ''if ever
a woman deserved the kindness of a crew she
does. Her heart has been with you from the
beginning in your troubles."

Yes, by the Virgin that's true ! " cried the
half-caste Ladova, fetching the table a blow
with his fist.

'* As contains the lady, sir," said Mole,
set your mind at ease. What's your other
conditions ? "

'' I must, with her, have the exclusive use of
this cabin."

One of them cried, '' You're welcome enough
to it. The fok'sle's good enough for poor
sailor men."

'' It's as Thomas there says," exclaimed

Mole, " the fok'sle's good enough for us. We
don't want no cabin. What's your other
conditions ? "

I have named them all," I answered.
'' You'll provide, I suppose, for our comfort
here — tell some one of you off to bring our
meals honor ? "

o

You'll see to that, cook," said Mole, turning
upon him.

"Ay," exclaimed the other, "that'll be all
right, sir. The food'll be cooked as afore,
and served as afore, if it comes to my
having to wait on ye myself."

Men," said I, " I can expect no more,
and I am satisfied. You have met me fairly
and spoken to me honestly ; and whilst you
continue faithful to the understanding that now
exists between us, you'll find me as staunch
as if I had been one of you from the beginning,
and the most ill-used of you too.
There are two men on deck — you answer for
it that they will be satisfied with our
arrangement ? "

"Yes," answered Mole, "specially may
Charles be answered for. A man whose soul

has turned black inside him, as his has, by the
shudder o' the gallows, ain't going to be very
exacting in his arrangements to get rid of the
cuss. Charles will agree, sir ; so will t'other."

Be it so," said I ; '' and now I'll step into the
captain's cabin for a sight of his charts and the
log-book there, that I may shape a course to
Cuba. That's it, I think?"

*' Right, sir," exclaimed Mole. Then looking
at the others he said, " Lads, there's nothing
I've forgot to say, is there ? "

There was some scratching of heads and
shuffling of feet, and then one said, " Xo,
everything's been said, Terry, I think ; " and
another, " Mr. ^^luso^rave consents to take command,
and steer the vessel for Cuba, giving usa
day's notice of its heaving into view, and I
don't know that there's anything more that we
wanted to see him about ; " but a third cried,
"Ay, but mr. ?^Iusgrave '11 want some one to
stand watch and watch with him. Who's todo
it ? "

You're capt'n now, sir," said ?vIole, rounding
upon me, but speaking very civilly ; " it's
for you to choose one of us to act as your mate.

The crew '11 be satisfied with your choice, no
matter who you fix upon."

'then," said I, ''Mr. Mole, I choose you."

The calling him "mister" set the whole of
the fellows on the broad grin.

Very well, sir," said Mole. " Lads, ye can
get forwards now. I'll keep a look-out, capt'n,
until ye come up." Secretly confounded and
dismayed as I was by all this business, yet
his calling me "captain" made me smile spite
of myself, as the others had on my terming him
"mister." A general laugh followed, but
nothing more was said as the whole body of
them went quietly up the ladder and disappeared
through the companion-hatch.

I stood a moment or two grasping a
stancheon, with a hand to my forehead, oppressed
by such a sense of bewilderment that
it was as sickening in its way as a bad fit of
giddiness. But I rallied swiftly, and observing
Miss Grant's door to remain closed, stepped at
once to the cabin that had been occupied by
Breakwater. I entered it with no small feeling
of awe. That he had been foully made away
with I did not for an instant doubt, and the

shadow of the crime seemed to He Hke a
material gloom upon the atmosphere of the
plain interior.

I was in the mood, indeed, just then to be
shocked and startled by little things, and I am
not ashamed to own that I recoiled as though
the ghost of the skipper stood before me to the
sight that first met my eye on opening the door
of a pea-jacket and a sour-wester on top of it
hanging together by the same hook, and under
the jacket a pair of breeches arched, empty as
they were, to the exact posture Breakwater's
shanks exhibited in life. I protest, the suit of
clothes, with the thatch of the sour-wester coming
down abaft the coat, looked so astonishingly
like the old skipper, that for the instant
I thought he had hanged himself with his
face to the bulkhead. There was a bunk in the
corner with the bedclothes tumbled ; over it a
short hanging shelf holding a few nautical
books ; in a corner another table on which
were a quadrant-case, a chronometer, a few
mathematical instruments, and, very conspicuous,
Breakwater's huge silver turnip watch.
The soles of a pair of sea-boots, one foot lying

upon another, glimmered out from the gloom
under the bunk, as though the captain lay
drunk and silent in the darkness there. I took
notice, though now I wonder that I should have
had eyes for such trifling details, of a likeness
of Breakwater and, as I supposed, of his wife
facing each other ; two heads cut out in black
paper, with streaks of bronze to define the
lineaments, mounted on a white ground. There
was a canvas bag of charts leaning dropsically
against the head of the bunk, and in a roll
alongside it was a chart of the North Atlantic,
which on opening it I found "pricked" down to
noon on the preceding day. The mate's log-book
was upon the table. The writing in it
was Both well's down to the time of his murder;
a very neat, clean, almost ladylike hand, that
threw into grotesque contrast old Breakwater's
sprawling, absurdly ill-spelt entries. Gordon, I
suppose, poor fellow, had been without literature
enough to qualify him to " keep " the book.
Having made the necessary calculations to enable
me to shape the course the men desired
I quitted the berth, grateful to escape an
atmosphere in which) I breathed with difficulty,

and was passing through my cabin on my way
to the deck when I caught sight of Miss Grant
looking out through her door. I immediately
went to her. There was a resolved, quiet expression
in her face, and her voice was without
tremor as she said, '' I overhead all that passed
in the cabin. You do not doubt that the
captain has been murdered ? "

"I do not," I replied; "but the men must
not imagine that we suspect them."

How will they treat us ? "

Oh, they are well disposed, respectful In
their manner to me, and they consented at once
to my request that the after part of the vessel
should be used only by us. This was more
than I had dared hope. You will have heard
their demand that I should navigate the vessel
to Cuba ? "

'* Yes," she exclaimed, catching her breath
quickly ; " it will be a roundabout way to Rio,
if ever we get there'' She smiled faintly and
sighed.

'* Never fear, we shall q;et there," said I
cheerfully. " Breakwater has to be thanked
for this abominable muddle. I foresaw it all.

I was certain that the men would never suffer
this vessel to proceed to her destination, call it
Rio or any other place, under a captain whose
evidence would hang the ran who had freed
them from the mate's tyranny. But let us most
anxiously bear in mind, Miss Grant, that our
policy is not to know that Breakwater has been
made away with."

Oh, I see that clearly," she answered.

'' He has committed suicide. Dwell upon
this view, and the thought of it will become a
habit, and we shall be the safer to that extent.
There is plenty of time before us in which to
talk over our position and make plans. I will
now go on deck and alter the vessel's course.
The men must believe me honestly disposed —
indeed I must prove myself so ; for let them be
called murderers — mutineers — the blood that
has been shed is assuredly on the heads of
Breakwater and Bothwell."

I raised her hand to my lips and went on
deck. The morning was as brilliant as any
that had ever shone over us. There was a
light wind from the north-east which I might
have accepted as the first breathing of the

regular trades but for the absence of the familiar
clouds which float like signals set in the blue
heavens to mark the confines of these gracious
and serviceable gales. The whole of the
eastern sea stretched in a rippling dazzle as of
wrinkled quicksilver, of so her an effulgence
that the weeping eye went instantly from it to
the west for the relief it got from the dark blue
water there, and the soothing azure of the sky
that sloped down to the soft liquid boundary.
I ran a swift glance around the horizon, but
there was nothing to be seen. The brig was
under the shortened canvas of the preceding-night
; main-topgallant-sail set, mainsail furled,
tack of the trysail hauled up, a jib and the
lighter staysails stowed. I found Mole pacing
the deck with the conscious looks of a person in
authority. Though it was yet early the cook
had lighted the fire, and most of the men were
gathered about the little caboose, holding pots
of hot coffee, some munching at biscuits, others
smoking. There was a suggestion of orderliness
amongst them that satisfied my eye. It
was natural perhaps that, recollecting the ugly
stain on the cabin-floor, I should have thrown a

hurried glance over the quarter-deck planking
for a like hint that this time should concern
Breakwater ; but all glistened sand-white to the
sun, with no further dyes than the violet
pendulous shadows of spar, sail, and rigging.
I stepped aft to the binnacle, where Mole at
once joined me.

"The course to Cuba," said I, "running a
line to the midship bearings of the island, is
west by south. Better get your yards braced
in and make sail upon the vessel."

He instantly sung out, " Hands to the braces !
Square the yards for Cuba, bullies ! "

The men drained their pots and sprang to
the ropes. Never from the hour of getting the
anchor off Deal had they exhibited such hearty
nimbleness. Their songs had the true ring,
and their notes swept aloft to the hollows of the
canvas, and away into the airy blue over the
side with the joyous echo of the homeward-bouncer's
chorus. I motioned the man at the
helm to put the wheel over, and the brig slowly
floated round with her stern to the sun, and the
wide soft heave of the sea coming along under
the light wind to the blue shadow of her starboard

quarter on the water. '* Steady ! " said
I ; " now hold her at that, my man."

*' Cuba '11 be under the bow then at this?"
said he, with such a puckering of his face to the
grin which overspread it, that it made one
think of an old walnut-shell.

"Yes," said I, "in heading as you go
we'll be running the island down in good
tie.

He leaned from the wheel to discharge a
quantity of tobacco-juice over the stern.
"Well," said he, "better a light pocket thana
heavy heart. There'll be no paying off this
voyage, I suppose. But, thank the Lard,
there's been plenty d paying omit!' He uttered
Breakwater's name, calling curses upon it in
accents by no means whispered, and out of the
fulness of his soul fell a-talking to the brig
with his eyes on the compass-card that swung
sluggishly to the lubber's point.

I stood alone watching the men making sail
upon the brig. Mole worked with the others,
pulling hard, raising encouraging shouts, and
springing here and there with the zeal of a man
who considers it his duty to set an example.

P VOL. II. G

Events had come In such a hushing throng
that in sober truth I had scarcely yet had time
to realize our position. Now as my eye went
to the men aloft loosening the sails, and the
fellows below bawling out at the sheets and
halliards, I could find a moment for reflection.
If Breakwater had been murdered, it was hard
to imagine, by the hearty, careless behaviour
and half-jocose airs of the crew, that they
knew of it. Yet if murder had been done it
would be sheer idleness to feign that the men
could be ignorant of it. There was always the
fellow at the wheel to stand looking on as a
witness. If Breakwater had made away with
himself, the splash of him as he went overboard
must have been a distinct sound fit to catch
any ear, even above all such surly, weltering
noises as were rising out of the blackness last
night, from the forecastle head to the binnacle ;
unless indeed the old man, with the sleek,
secret, wary cunning of the sailor who had
gone to his account in the English Channel,
had slipped in the darkness into the lee main-chains,
and then softly dropped into the sea.
But this was to suppose that he had destroyed

III. I TAKE COMMAND. 83

himself, an idea not to be entertained for the
space of a breath in the face of the memory of
a nature which proved him to have been so
grossly of the earth, that one would as soon
think of a hog terminating its existence. No !
if he were out of the ship, then he was a
murdered man ; which being past all doubt, I
entered into some swift speculations as to the
manner of his death ; and there being no hint
upon the gleaming platform of the deck of the
use of the knife, I concluded that he had been
stunned and dropped overboard whilst still
insensible. One man could have done this.
Heavy as the square form of old Breakwater
was, one pair of hands might have sufficed to
drag the breathless body to the rail, and
with vigorous upheaval swing it into a somersault
over the bulwarks. Guilt, like terror, will
often put a grip of steel into nerveless fingers.

But it was not to be supposed there were no
witnesses to this crime. Breakwater was not
the man to let the watch on deck skulk even in
the blackest hour ; therefore there would have
been most of the sailors on the move as
observers of all that could happen, from the

G 2

forecastle to where the quarter-deck began ;
whilst aft was the helmsman with eyes for the
rest of the ship there. Breakwater had been
murdered, and all hands knew it ! My heart
turned sick and cold in me at the bare recollection
of what had occurred during our
execrable voyage, from the hour of Cooper's
suicide to this moment, and I turned with a
sense of faintness to the rail, and lay over it a
minute or two to recover myself, half-distraught
by the conflict of emotions which surged up into
my head.

I felt a hand upon my shoulder. I started
vehemently to the touch from my bitter mood
of apprehension, and confronted Miss Grant.

'there can be no objection to my coming
on deck, Mr. Musgrave ?" she exclaimed.

None," I answered ; "the men have promised
not to trouble either of us. We must trust
them — we cannot do otherwise."

She looked at me earnestly. I don't doubt I
was worn and haggard enough to account for
her concerned, inquiring gaze. She was very
pale, but I instantly noticed an expression of
decision in her face as of a mind that has

formed a resolution from which nothing is to
divert it. Her black eyes looked at me with a
full, steadfast shining. It was manifest that
the true spirit of this girl, which had been
bowed a little as I had last night remarked, had
recovered its old natural, erect, heroic posture.

'* Let us walk," she said. "It cannot matter
that the men should see us together conversing.
They must know we do so below when out of
sight of them."

'' A moment," I exclaimed. " Mr. Mole ! " I
sung out, "get topmast and topgallant-stunsails
aloft. Crowd on all canvas. You want heels,
as we do."

Ay, ay, sir ! " He re-echoed my orders
promptly. Had he been mate throughout he
could not have fitted the post more intelligently,
nor exhibited shrewder perception of the dignity
of the berth he filled in his manner of calling to
the men, that was as good as saying to them,
I'm still your shipmate, lads ; but don't forget
that-i'm mister also ! "

Miss Grant and I fell to pacing the weather-deck,
speaking low, and taking care to slew
round for our forward pace whilst the fellow at

the helm was still a little way off. We spoke
of the disappearance of Breakwater. She did
not doubt with me that he had been murdered,
and that the whole of the crew were acquainted
with the deed. I said to her, " But glance at
them. Miss Grant ; see how nimbly they run
about ; hear the cheeriness in their voices, and
the occasional laugh ! It is hard to believe
they can be conscious that a second dreadful
crime was committed in this ship in the dark
hours of the morning."

You will find it was the deed of one man,"
she answered ; " the others feel themselves
guiltless, and are happy because they are free.
But who is the criminal ? Is it Charles, do you
think?"

I c/a7^e not think," I exclaimed. "As it is,
he must regard us as witnesses to his murder
of the mate. His dread of Breakwater maybe
extended to us for the same reason. I am
infinitely bothered — infinitely bothered," I exclaimed,
with an involuntary clenching of my
fist to a fit of exasperation that came to me
with the thought of the horrible muddle we
were in, and my helplessness and my inability

to perceive the least gleam of light upon the
heavy surrounding gloom.

She looked at me with a light smile, and said
with a sort of peremptoriness, fascinating for
its spirit and kindness, ''If scan be cool, you
must be so. Mr. Musgrave, I really do not
feel the least bit afraid ; certainly I have no
fear for our lives. The hearts in those men
are not black ; they are not pirates ; at least
they are not pirates yet ! They are wretched
human creatures, who have been driven to this
by ill-treatment, and now that the captain is
gone they will stay their hands. Indeed, I
have no fear. The future, to be sure, is a
gloomy problem, but have not we courage
enough between us to wait until it is solved ? "
She continued to look at me, preserving her
liorht smile.

"We should change places," said I, feeling a
trifle of colour in my cheeks ; " you have
twenty-fold my heart. Yet I should feel less
worried, I believe, if I were alone here. It is
my duty to see you safely to Rio — I embarked
for no other purpose."

But supposing / were alone ! " said she.

'' Ha ! " I exclaimed ; *' and yet I don't know.
I believe your nature would top the whole
difficulty as a sea-bird a surge big enough to
founder a line-of-battle ship. Indeed the mere
circumstance of your being alone might win
you more consideration from the sailors than
they would show you with a male companion to
look after you."

Well, Mr. Musgrave," said she, and her
voice still maintained its character of peremptoriness
that rendered it, to my ear at all
events, not a little engaging by the quality of
half-conscious coquetry that I found in it, 'bemoaning
our position will not help it. I am
certain you will yet discharge the obligation
you generously, most generously, undertook ;
and how Alexander will thank you when he
hears of our adventures, and of your heavy
anxieties, my heart tells me."

She laid her hand upon her breast as she
spoke ; the Spanish blood in her indeed was
confessed in many of her gestures. And
though her accent was entirely English, yet
perhaps in her choice of words you missed the
ease and simplicity you would expect in a girl

I TAKE COMMAND. 89

whose blood and lifelong surroundings were
purely British. ''A plague on Alexander!"
thought I. It had come, somehow or other, to
my never being able to hear her mention his
name without a feeling in me that she was a bit
maladroit in referring to it. " A plague on
him ! " I repeated to myself, spite of the glowing
glance she shot at me through the fringes of
her white lids, as if to an instant's curiosity as
to what was passing in my mind.

*' Under Heaven, Miss Grant," I answered,
I hope indeed to be able to discharge my
obligation, though 'tis a word that I don't like
indeed, it is quite the other way. But," said
I, with a touch of impatience, " this is no time
for ceremonies of speech. We are talking ot
Rio and Alexander ; and here, confound it !
are we heading away on a crow's course for
Cuba."

'why do the men want to go to Cuba?"
she asked.

*' I may find out," I answered ; 'eat present I
have not the least idea. The West Indies, to
be sure, suggest piracy ; but that dream is gone.
If the cross-bones and skull be not hauled

90 MAROONED. chap. hi. .

<

down and stowed away, they are scarce now
flying half-mast high. No ! yonder HveHes will
not put this ship to any felonious use ! I am
to give them notice when we are within a day's
sail of the island. That sounds queer — they
don't name a port."

"It will all come right, Mr. Muserave," she
exclaimed.

I viewed her with an admiration I could not
disguise. It was not only the challenge of her
pale, bashful, resolved beauty just then ; it was
the high courage, giving her faith in the future,
that won my eyes to her with an expression in
them that must have conveyed more than the
message I intended ; for her own gaze drooped
to it on a sudden, and went away seawards with
the merest flutter of a smile upon her lips.

WE ARE SPOKEN.

Presently the men had packed studding-sails
to the royal yards upon the brig. The increased
pressure raised a little yeasty hum at the
forefoot. The warm blue gushing of the wind
had weight enough in it to steady the canvas.
The lower studding-sail overhanging the side
by many feet rounded yearningly forwards
cloud-like to the pressure ; the foot of the mainsail,
the weather-clew of which was hauled uplifted,
with scarce a swing-in, to the light heave
of the fabric ; aloft 'twas all luminous fearlessness,
one sail looking to float upwards to
another, till on high the little royal blended
with the dainty tropical blue till the azure
seemed to flow through the whiteness of them,
as the pearly chip of new moon in the midday

heavens will seem to be tinctured with the
sapphire along which it slides. But I took
notice that the crew did not intend to wash the
decks down ; and that 1 might satisfy myself
on a head or two concerning the ship's discipline,
and what was expected of me, I called to
Mole, having Miss Grant still at my side.
There was little of the cut-throat in the appearance
of the seaman as he approached and stood
before us, civil, but with a determined manner
running through his respectfulness. He was
indeed as fine a specimen of an English sailor
as one could wish to see ; tall, muscular, well-shaped,
and with the grace begotten by years
of rolling decks in every posture and movement ;
eyes full of sensibility, a cheek burnt by many
months of high suns, and handsome features
which seemed the manlier for the shaggy cast
his thick, plentiful hair gave them.

'' Mr. Mole," said I, '' I am captain by the
wish and consent of the crew, but have no
ambition to venture a step further than they
require me to walk. I therefore propose to
give no orders until I have ascertained their
views. They will work the ship, of course.

brace the yards about to the wind, and make
and shorten sail, and the Hke. And what
more ? ''

Nothing more, sir," he answered promptly.
So I might have guessed " There'll be no
money to take up, J\lr. Musgrave," he continued,
" and he's a good dog that'll work for a
bare bone."

There'd be money enough to earn though,"
said I, "should you feel disposed to turn to
and make a salvage job of this business. Here's
a brig without a commander, with her hold
full of mixed commodities "

He raised his hand with a glance forward.
No, sir. All hands is agreed. If we could
stick the blooming hooker up for Lunnon town
in a twenty-four hours' ratch, we'd sooner see
her conveying her hell-born skipper and mate
that way," pointing down with a wild romantic
gesture, '' than handle a brace for her salvation."
He took a steadier grip of the deck with his
feet, so to speak, and looked at me as much as
to say, '' Hold to your first kind of questions."

"Then," said I, "I am expected to do nothing
but navigate the brig ? "

'' To Cuba ! Yes, sir, that, if you please,
along with looking after her in dirty weather,
for we know from Mr. Gordon that you're
sailor enough for most things that can happen
at sea."

It would have been idle to dispute this high
opinion ; the result no doubt of poor Gordon's
hope that I might take the mate's place, and of
his wash to confirm, by his ardent representations
of me as a seaman, such satisfaction as the
men might feel had I consented to Breakwater's
appointment of me. " The crew will find meas
dutiful to their desires, Mr. Mole," said I,
'ras they are faithful to the promises they
made me."

Mr. Musgrave," he exclaimed, " I'll be
plain with ye. There'll be no call for you to
take any notice of what goes on. The ship's
stores aren't over good, and there's no reason
why the cook should not tarn to and serve up
a forecastle mess from time to time out of the
cabin provisions. That there live stock," he
continued, pointing to a hencoop, " belongs to
you and the lady, I believe, sir ? " I said '' yes."
Well, it won't be touched ; but all the rest

we shall take the liberty of claiming for ourselves."


'* Of course," I said, '* you will do as you
please. But what about the liquor ? "

"Ye needn't feel concerned about that," he
exclaimed, understanding me; 'every man's
allowances be increased, and why not ? But
there'll be no drinking. If ever you should
observe one of the men half so slewed as
Breakwater used to be day after day and night
after night, the crew'll give ye full consent to
have him seized up, and their own handbill do
the rest. No, no, there'll be no drinking. The
look-out ain't cheerful enough for the likes o'
that sort of jollification. There's one thing,
perhaps," he continued, changing his tone from
the high, almost angry, energy in which he had
been addressing me, " that is proper I should
teller, sir. The crew don't want to have
notion to say to any ships that may chance to
pass. They desire to keep themselves to themselves."


A thought coming into my head on his saying
this, I looked from Miss Grant to him and
said, " If a chance offered for this lady and me

to trans-ship ourselves, you would not
object ? "

He answered quickly and sternly, '' Mr.
Musgrave, there must be no meddling with
other vessels. Please to understand that, sir."

I gave a little involuntary stamp of impatience,
but said nothing. Miss Grant's hand
stole to my arm with a gentle rebuking pressure
of the fingers. The man added, softening his
manner, " If you left us, who's to navigate the
bri ? "

The ship that received us would lend you
a mate."

Oh, but you dont understand," he exclaimed,
with a sour lowering of his face. "Well, sir,
'tis settled, of course — there is to be no conversing
with anything that may heave in sight."

I have told you I will do what you ask."

Just then the cook came up to us, to ask if
we were ready for breakfast ; and simple as
the thing was, yet on the top of the shining
morning and the quietude of the men, the touch
of homeliness in the question put a sort of ease
into my mind that was as useful to me just
then as a small stroke of good fortune. It half

rose to my lips to gratify Mole by inviting him
to use the cabin for his meals, and had I been
alone in the brig I should have done so ; but
the thought of him as society for Miss Grant
checked my intention, though I protest he
would have furnished her with out and away
better company than ever Breakwater was,
whilst It was not to be questioned that he had
much more to talk about, having served In
many different kinds of ships and visited
many lands ; whereas I believe Breakwater
had passed most of his early life in the coasting
trade, and never weathered either Cape
in all the years he had used the sea.

The cook arrived with our breakfast in due
course, and made some show of setting the
dishes upon the table, as if he had taken more
trouble than usual in the cooking of the meal,
and was desirous we should value him for it.
We were in the cabin waiting for him when he
made his appearance, and after preparing the
table he asked me if he should attend upon us.
I thanked him for his civility, and added that
we should be able to do without him, and told
him very plainly that any attention he showed

VOL. 11. H

us now would not be forgotten by me hereafter.
I shall always remember this man for the
peculiar dingy pallor of his face, so much like
the complexion of the *duff" he cooked for the
sailors that no painter could have copied it
more inimitably ; also for his large, moist eyeballs,
whose protrusion gave him a stupid,
staring look, whilst at the same time the sky-blue
pupils were so bleared with damp and the
cloudiness of congestion as to make his wide-open
gaze a sort of blind hunt in the direction
of what he looked at. Though I had told him
we could do without him, he still lingered, as
though the novelty of being in the cabin
pleased him. I thought I would ask him a
question or two.

'' Didn't it strike you as odd, cook, that
Captain Breakwater should have chosen you
to stand watch and watch with him ? "

'' Why, yes," said he, in his slow, wheezy
voice. '' I don't know what there was to make
him .partial to me in that way. He was no
more beloved by me than he was by the others.
He had such a choice of foul words as never I
heard in a man's mouth afore. 'Sides a trick of

hazing just proper to break the heart of a carthorse.
Perhaps his feelings made his way
towards me through his stomach. He was
much in love with that end of him, sir, and yet
coarse as a Fin in his eaten' too. He was born
in the latitood o' roast pork. Had he been
given birth to higher north he'd ha' asked in
his prayers for notion better than slush."

'' He must have destroyed himself very
cunningly last night, or rather this morning,"
said I. " No doubt he sneaked overboard
into the blackness of the lee-channels, and
thence dropped." I glanced at him carelessly
as I said this.

Can't tell ye how it happened, I'm sure,"
he answered. '' I was turned in at the time,
as you know. Hope that there bacon's
broiled to your liking, miss ? "

Miss Grantthanked him with smile and bow.

Were you ever at Cuba, cook ? " said I, in
an offhand way.

No, sir," he answered, making a step towards
the companion-ladder, as though he
considered it time to be gone, and then
stopping to answer me.

H 2

Havana's the chief port," I continued.
There should be no difficulty, I suppose, In
meeting with a ship bound straight on for Rio.
We're both," said I, smiling and preserving
my careless manner, " in a bit of a hurry, and I
heartily wish that the crew had selected waters
nearer the South American seaboard than the
Caribbean Sea."

'' We're bound to Cuba, anyhow," said he,
with another stride towards the steps.

Do you know what part of Cuba the men
design to touch at ? " I asked ; but as I said
this I felt Miss Grant's hand upon my knee.
I looked at her, and marked a lightning-like
lifting of her long lashes to the skylight, where,
partly through the glass and partly through
the raised sash, I caught a sight of the figure
of Mole standing In an unmistakably listening
posture, though you would have said his attention
was fixed by something that was happening
forward. '' No further need to detain you,
cook," I exclaimed, loudly and cheerfully ; ''if
you can persuade the crew — for your Influence,
you know, as ' doctor ' ought to be considerable
— to let me navigate the brig to any point

WE ARE SPOKEN. loi

nearer to Rio than Cuba, you will be doing not
me but this lady a prodigious service."

The figure at the skylight moved away.
He probably guessed by the change of my
voice that I knew he was listening. The cook
exclaimed, "The destination of this here
vessel is a matter as contains all hands. It's
not for any one man more 'n another to interfere.
Cuba's been settled upon, and I allow
that the arrangement had best be left alone."
With that he went on deck.

I think you are a little indiscreet," said
Miss Grant softly.

'perhaps so," I replied, "but the fellow
with his pale face and projecting eyes had, I
thought, an honest look, and I seemed to find a
suggestion of garrulity lying behind his loitering
here. But I am mistaken. I must be cautious,
as you say ; still it is distracting not to be able
to make even a guess at the intentions of the
fellows."

You must expect to be watched," she
continued. " We shall have to be exceedingly
cautious in conversing, and, Mr. Musgrave, it
will not do for you to question any of the men.

You must be as reserved as they are, attend to
the navigation of the ship according to their
requirements, satisfy them with your honesty asa
navigator by such proofs as their ignorance
will suffer them to understand, and leave the
rest to time and to chance. It 7mtst be so ! " she
cried, still softly, yet with impetuosity In the
drawing of her breath. "It Is for time and
chance to decide all things. Let one's condition
be that of a princess, or as dark and as
full of care as ours now, it is the same."

You shall control me as you desire," said
I, gently; "you have more wit than I, more
patience, more courage, and will preserve me
from doing anything that I may repent for your
sake. I feel myself to a certain extent
responsible for the dreadful position in which
we are placed." She motioned dissent with
her hand.

Well," I continued, " first of all, I ought to
have know human nature too well to have been
duped by a man like Breakwater."

Oh, Mr. Musgrave, we do not know human
nature even when we are white-haired," she
cried, " and you are so young yet ! "

That is so," said I, stealing a look at her
to see if there was any correspondence between
her eyes and her words. " But I am not so
young as not to have known better than to
suffer ourselves to proceed on this voyage,
when perhaps, by insisting upon it, I could
have got Breakwater to set us ashore in the
English Channel. One hope I have, however,"
with a further lowering of my voice ; "it may
not have occurred to the men. We have ships
of war in the West Indian waters, and it is
impossible to conjecture what might come of
some smart sloop heaving us into view, and
desiring a closer acquaintance from symptoms
which the astute naval eye can often discern in
what to another is mere timber, canvas, and an
ugly head or two peeping over the rail."

But the idea of a cruiser overhauling us was
a vague hope at best. I might think to lighten
Miss Grant's anxiety, and steal a little ease for
myself too, out of the fancies that came into my
head by talking of such things. But as the
nations were then at peace, as piracy was pretty
nearly extinct, and as there was nothing to suggest
the slaver in the aspect of the Iron Crown,

what excuse should a naval officer find in the
mere cut of canvas, and trim of yards, and run
of rail, whether ornamented or not with an ugly-head
or two, to send a boat aboard for a look
at the brig's papers ? The island of Cuba bore
about two thousand miles distant from us.
How many days' sailing that might signify no
man would have cared to conjecture. We
might indeed look for the trades anon, and blow
along briskly to the quartering gale, without
need for days at a stretch perhaps to check a
brace or stand by a halliard. But the sun eats
out the heart of a steady blowing as the
Antilles are approached, and the sweeping wind
that has been whitening the curl of the dark
blue chasing billows, and putting a windy
sparkle into the glitter of the foaming huddle
of gem-crested waters flashing from under the
counter in a long race towards the leaping sea-line,
dies out into parched catspaws, brief bursts
of fiery squall, and long intervals of glassy,
rotting calm, with nothing to tarnish the surface
of the blinding mirror but the jump of the
skipjack, or the thin blue line that denotes the
wake of the wet black fin of the shark.

But at sea what happens for the day must
suffice for It, and the breeze had now settled into
so fixed and pleasant a humming, that I was
scarce surprised when returning on deck after
breakfast to find a hint In the blue shallowness
In the north-east, with here and there a head of
cloud lifting out of it, of the presence or the
approach of the regular trade-wind. All hands
were on deck forward savings Mole, who was
aft, and Charles at the wheel. They where
lying sprawling, sitting about, smoking to a
man, yarning, with often a loud laugh breaking
from one or another of them. Indeed, it was
more like a dog-watch scene on a fine summer's
night than such a picture as one would look
for In the work-up, hard-going hours of the
forenoon watch. Over the side the seas ran
short, and broke friskily. Again and again,
from either bow, a score of flying-fish would
dart from the arch of wave there as though
some young sea-god leaning against the shearing
forefoot was showering barbs of mother-of-pearl
up through the blue translucency Into the
sunny air.

It was my watch on deck, and Mole on

my arrival was going forward, when I stopped
him.

'' Is there a man aboard this vessel," said I,
** who has any knowledge of navigation ? "

"Not going to such lengths," he answered,
'' as taking the height of the sun and discovering
our situation by celestial observations.
But I don't doubt, if I was put to it, that I
should be able to find my way about with the
log-line, supposing my departure's correct."

'' Then," said I, '' I may judge, even from
what you say, that you are able to follow my
navigation, and to form an opinion of its
correctness by looking at the course I mark
down on the chart."

"Yes, sir, I should be able to do that."

I am glad to hear it. I desire that my
goodwill should be appreciated. The men
would not doubt my sincerity or my capacity
with you at hand to tell them that you have
checked my reckonings, and that I am heading
true to their wishes."

We're all quite satisfied, sir," he responded,
with a falcon glance at me under the
careless droop of his lids. '' We have no fear

of your deceiving of us ; " and with a half-flourish
of his hand to his head he went
towards the forecastle, leaving me under the
impression that I had said too much, and that
it would be as well for me in future to rehearse
whatever I might wish to say to the men with
Miss Grant before expressing myself.

As I walked the deck alone, I would catch
now and again an odd, inquiring sort of look
from Charles, who grasped the wheel. It was
almost wistful in its way, and with the idea of
giving him a chance to interpret it, I came
presently to a stand at the quarter, sending a
light glance astern, and then made a stride to
the binnacle from which I peered to the canvas
aloft, as though to remark with what steadiness
the craft swung through it under the dead
weather drag of the great studding-sail. My
aversion from the fellow was not without a weak
element of pity too for him. I seemed to
remember now, oddly enough, as I held him
within the sphere of my sight without regarding
him, the kind of light that had come into his
face like a smile when, as he tugged at his oar
in the boat that carried us aboard in the Downs,

he had let his eyes rest on Miss Grant, before
sending them on to old Breakwater who . sat
abaft her.

Sir," he suddenly exclaimed. I turned
with an air of surprise at being accosted by him.
It's known to you and the lady, sir, that I
killed the mate. He drove me wild in the
dark, as I stood here, with more outrageous
language than the captain himself could use.
He rose the devil in me, and I drew my knife
though the moment after I could have
stabbed myself for doing of it." He dragged
over a spoke with a mechanical twist ; his
olive-coloured complexion had perished into
a sickly, sallow green which his dark eyes,
gleaming with the contending passions in him,
so accentuated that the memory of his visage
was for long one of the ugliest phantoms that
troubled my slumbers. I drew a pace away
when he spoke of killing the mate ; he continued
talking hurriedly, as though he feared I
should leave him before he had had his say.
*' You and the lady, sir, thinks of me as a bloody
murderer, and so I am — so I am ! But it began
and ended in what you know and saw. So

help me all the good angels I was taught to
pray to when I was a child, and so help me
the blessed Virgin herself" — he let go the
wheel with one of his little hands to make the
sign of the cross upon his breast — '' whatsoever
may have been the cause of the capt'n's
disappearance, I am innocent of it. Do you
believe me, sir ? "

I looked at him a moment and said, " I do.
But do you mean to suggest that he met his
end by foul play ? "

He made a passionate gesture and cried, '^ I
know nothing about it, sir. I want you to
believe f/ia^, and I want the lady to believe it
modern you. She had pity for me when I —
when I — " He paused with a gasp and a swift
pointing towards the foremast with a trembling
hand.

She came on deck at that moment.

I am glad to learn what you have told me,"
said I, and I added coldly, for aversion was
strong in me again, and besides, his very words
were as good as owning that the captain had
been murdered, though not by him, " No doubt
the unhappy man fell crazy with drink and

temper, and through the loss of the boat, along
with his conscience over the drowning of the
cabin-boy, and quietly sneaked overboard ; " and
so saying I walked over to Miss Grant,

I called to some men to spread the little
scrap of awning the brig carried, and three or
four of them came instantly tumbling aft as
willingly as one could wish. I then placed a
chair for Miss Grant to windward, where I
could sometimes halt in my walk to have a chat
with her, for now that I had charge of the deck,
her accompanying me in my pacing would
scarcely look ship-shape in the eyes of the
seamen. But I made no reference to my
conversation with the half-blood, beyond merely
telling her in a half-whisper that the fellow had,
in an odd way, protested himself as Innocent of
whatever the cause might have been of Broad-water's
disappearance ; whence I thought it was
certainly to be gathered that the old man had
been made away with. However, it was not a
little comforting, I can tell you, to feel that this
Charles, whom I held In secret dread, was equal
to feeling grateful to Miss Grant for the concern
and indignation his punishment at the foremast

had excited in her. It was gratifying to me,
moreover, to know that he had conscience
enough left in him to shrink from suspicion of
another dark deed. Indeed my talk with the
fellow, followed on by the lively willingness of
the men who responded to my order to lay aft
and spread the awning, would have put, I
believe, something of lightness into my tread
of the quarter-deck, specially with the radiant
scene of heaven and ocean to turn from to
Miss Aurelia's dark eyes, which often followed
me as I walked, but for the dull, oppressive
wonder as to what project the crew had in mind
in making me head for Cuba, a thing that
gnawed in the secret recesses of my mind
like some sulky throbbing ache of a nerve.

Before my watch was out however there
happened an incident which gave me to know
very plainly that the sailors' resolution was
fixed in one direction, at all events. The breeze
had freshened — it was a little before ten o'clock
in the morning — clouds rounded and of silken
texture, like growing puffs of powder-smoke
from great ordnance fired below the horizon,
were sailing up into the blue hollow which the

sunshine so filled that It was all azure dazzle
over our masthead ; the brig was sliding along
at some five knots, cradling her form from one
dark blue brow to another, with the whipped
waters merrily sparkling into billows and melting
into cream all along her as she ran. Suddenly
a man, who was standing oh the forecastle
head, bawled out, " Sail ho ! " to which
cry I noticed that the others, who lounged or
lay sprawling about the deck near the galley,
immediately started to their feet and ran to
the rail to look.

Where away ? " I sang out.

*' Broad on the weather-bow," came back the
answer.

I looked, and at once descried a sail leaning
like a white shaft in the quarter the man had
indicated, and, as I might judge by the heel of
her, by which one saw that she must be hugging
the wind, heading directly for us. I went to
the companion for the glass, and bringing the
tubes to bear, made the stranger out to be a
small brigantine. The hands forward over the
rail watched her steadfastly. I waited and had
another look at her, and found her growing

rapidly. Indeed, that was to be expected, for
our united pace would probably be closing us at
the rate of some ten or twelve knots in the
hour. I hailed the forecastle, and desired that
Mr. Mole should be roused up and sent aft tome.
He sprang through the hatch within a
minute after he had been called, blinking with
sleep and the darkness in his eyes against the
splendour on deck, but laying aft nevertheless
as briskly as if he had the scent of danger in
his nostrils.

What's the matter now, sir ?" he cried out,
as he approached.

I simply want to be advised," said I ; and
pointing to the little brigantine that was coming
along with her wash-streak down in the smother,
and the weather-leeches of her topsail and 
and royal shivering like the fly of a
flag in a breeze to the grip of the helmsman's
luff, 1 said, " You see that fellow out there ? "

He shaded his eyes and answered, *' Plain
enough, sir."

*' Take that glass," I exclaimed, " and look at
her, and tell me what you observe."

He worked away with the telescope, and

VOL. II. I

then suddenly exclaimed, " 'Taln't English
colours, is it ? No, it's Norwegian — Jack down
flying half-masted."

** Exactly," said I ; *' it is a distress-signal,
and she wants to speak us. Now, I don't mean
to accept any responsibility in a business of this
kind. There may be people yonder perishing
from some want which it is in our power to
supply "

'' Can't help it if there are, sir," he cried
vehemently. '' We're bound to shove on ;
there's notion that must stop us ! " and a dark
look came into his face, as though he supposed
I was going to argue, and was angry by
anticipation,

*' Be It so," I exclaimed. '' We'll keep
straight on, as you say." He sent a look full
of significance at the man who had relieved
Charles at the wheel, and then went forward
and leant upon the rail alongside the others,
staring his hardest, as they were, at the
approaching vessel.

What they had suspected in her appearance
I don't know, but I gathered he had told them
of the distress-signal and of the nationality of it

WE ARE SPOKEN. ii

scarce yet visible to the naked eye — by the
lapsing of most of them from their intent,
strained, eager posture into a half-lounging,
careless attitude. I waited a little, and then
viewing her again through the glass, I was nota
little surprised to remark that she appeared
to be full of people. I examined her carefully,
and was sure I could not be mistaken. If the
swarm of glimmering dots along the whole
length of her rail were not human faces, it
would puzzle a man to guess what else they
could be. Presently the men noticed this too,
for I saw some of them give their breeches an
uneasy hitch as they brought their eyes away
from her to our own canvas with sharp staring
aft, as though they feared I might play them
some ugly trick if I were not closely watched.
The size of the brigantine scarcely exceeded a
hundred and fifty tons, and I never remember
seeing a prettier model. She had a true
piratical sheer forwards, a run of bow into a
knife-like cutwater, sheathing green with usage,
that flickered with a sort of emerald sheen
to the light of the snow that boiled about her
forefoot as she rose to the fine-weather surge.

I 2

The swells of her well-cut canvas leaned to us
sunwards with milk-white softness in the shine
of them ; nothing afloat could look more saucy,
taut, and seaworthy, and one almost suspected
some sinister device in the dumb appeal of the
speck of crimson bunting with its blue cross,
white margined, and inverted Jack, only that
the crowd of heads, now distinctly visible,
made such a puzzlement of the sight as
effectually checked speculation. I watched
her intently through the glass, and noticed
much motioning of arms, and brandishing of
caps and other headgear amongst her people.

It needed no specially clear eye for human
distress to interpret those gesticulations into

an earnest entreaty to us to boom-end our

studding-sails and bring the brig to the wind.

I stood at the rail watching her, and Miss

Grant came to my side.

'' There are women aboard, and children

too," I cried ; '' at least a hundred people,

I should say. They will think us demons

for not attending to their signal."

What do you imagine they need ? " she

inquired.

'' They may have run short of provisions,
or worse still, of water," I answered, steadfastly
examining the length of her black sides for
any bright spout from the scuppers that
might tell me her pumps where going.

The men alone the line of bulwarks watched
her with faces as hard as figure-heads, with
here and there a jaw moving upon the quid
that stood heh In the cheek-bone, whilst
at Intervals a fellow would drop from his
akimbo arms upon the rail to light his pipe
at the galley fire, returning promptly however
and resuming his place, where he would stand
quietly with a wooden-headed look, but nevertheless
with sooty pipe in mouth, blowing out
clouds that told of some Inward perturbation.
On a sudden the brigantine put her helm up,
slackened away her sheets fore and aft along
with the lee-braces, and headed direct for us.
Her manoeuvre startled me, for I thought she
meant to run us aboard. The clipper hull of
her, now that she was making a free wind of
It, swept like the shadow of a cloud over the
water. She piled the foam to her hawse-pipes,
and a yeasty hillock went along with

her on either quarter, with the flash past it of
her wake, whose giddy dazzle would have
made a near eye reel again. Mole sprang aft
to the quarter-deck in a few bounds.

"What's sheep to, Mr. Musgrave? " he shouted.
'' Does she mean to board us, think ye ? ''

No, no ; to speak us, man — to speak us,"
I answered, for already her intention was made
manifest to me by a subtle shifting of her helm,
that would enable her presently to range within
speaking distance of us, heading as we were.
In another ten minutes she was within a biscuit
toss, almost directly abreast to windward, but
they had to let go their royal and 
and scandalize their mainsail, as it is
termed, to keep their position ; for though the
brig was under every stitch of canvas that
would draw, with studding-sails swelling cloudlike
one on top of another far beyond her
weather-side, the clipper to windward with al
her canvas abroad would have forged ahead
like a steamer, and been out of hail in five
minutes. There were twenty or thirty women
amongst the crowd, some of them with babies
in their arms, and forty or fifty men, and at

least a score of children. The vessel, being
small and somewhat deep in the water, showed
her decks to us with every floating slide to leeward.
The picture, for strangeness, wildness,
and I may add for beauty, was in its way incomparable.
The "flash of the low black hull
through the milk-white boiling along her bends,
the ivory gleam of her canvas melting into soft
shadowing beyond the central curves of the
cloths, the crowd upon her decks so variously
and oddly apparelled that nothing short of the
paint-brush vvould put the scene before you —
red and green handkerchiefs round the head,
caps like inverted flower-pots falling with a
tassel to the shoulders, coats of frieze with
great metal buttons, yellow half-boots, red petticoats,
the gleam of gold or silver earrings — such
a huddle of bright colours defies the pen ; one
thought of an opera troupe, with its choruses
and orchestra to boot, as having taken ship fora
pleasure cruise, and fallen into some dreadful
condition of incommunicable distress. The
Norwegian flag, as I have said, flew Jack down
half-masted from the main-topmast head ; but
though she might have been a Norwegian ship,

with a Norwegian crew in her, I cannot persuade
myself that the women, the children, and
most of the men were of that nation. Yet it
was impossible to understand a word of what
they said. Perhaps they would have been as
unintelligible had they yelled in' English, for
every throat in the craft was strained at the
same moment, and the wind brought the hubbub
along to fall in a blind dead way upon the
ear like a fog upon the eye.

A man, presumably the skipper, an old
patriarchal-looking fellow, with a long white
goat like beard, and a white fur cap as it seemed
coming close down to his shaggy eyebrows, got
into the main-rigging, with a speaking-trumpet
in one hand, through which he roared a sentence
that was as Hebrew, afterwards pointing with
his trumpet to his flag. I said to Mole, *' Shall
we hail them ? "

He answered with a stamp of his foot, " No,

by , not if they was on fire. What do

the dogs mean by sticking their craft alongside
of us ? "

Besides continuously shouting, the queer
kaleidoscopic crowd convulsed themselves with

every imaginable kind of gesture. Some
pointed into their wide-open mouths : others
clasped their hands upon their stomachs, with
grimaces inimitably expressive of suffering ;
many motioned as If in the act of drinking ; one
man held a bottle aloft upside down, tapping
it with his finger, and shaking his head most
dolefully. There was indeed no need for them
to tell in words what was the matter with
them.

I cried, "Mr. Mole, you see how it is ; those
people want water — water ! " I repeated, emphasizing
the words, for if there's a human
need that thrills to the heart of the sailor on
the high seas, it is that. '' It is in our power
to relieve them to a small extent at least. Look
at those children ! No possible harm can come,
man, from our allowing them to send a boat
to us."

He turned upon me savagely. "Mr.
Musgrave," he exclaimed, in a voice like a
snarl, so hard did his passion make it for him
to speak," " if ye have an atom of concern in
yotcr safety — In the lady's safety — you'll hold
your jaiuT

I took Miss Grant's hand, and walked with
her right aft, and seated myself by her side on
the grating.

'' You must let them have their way," she
exclaimed ; ^' they are devils, not men."

I was too sick at heart, too enraged by the
man's insolence, too shocked by the picture of
the gaping crowd to windward, to be able to
answer her.

Presently there fell a silence upon the little
brigantine, and you heard nothing but the
seething of the water past her as her sharp
stem sheared through it with a hissing as of
red-hot iron. The hush was broken by the
old white-bearded man bellowing again to us
through his speaking-trumpet. Mole, with
folded arms, stood looking on without a stir in
the scowl of his face. Not a voice disturbed
the stillness forward, where the men hanging
over the rail were gazing with an air of mere
idle curiosity. Twice the old man hailed us ;
he then got out of the rigging, and on reaching
the deck flung his trumpet down with a
furious gesture, sank upon his knees, and lifting
up his hands to God, seemed to invoke a

curse upon us, varying his dreadful tragic
posture of denunciation by pointing at our
brig with his eyes upturned. At the sight of
this the rest of the people fell to menacing
us with brandished fists, shouting and yelling
at us till their voices blended into one honor
howl of execration. Yet had our crew been
statues they could not have surveyed the
dreadful scene more impassively. Presently
the old man rose from his knees, and motioned
to the fellow at the wheel to put it over ; the
topgallant and royal yards were hoisted afresh,
the peak-halliards manned, and in a few moments
the swift and beautiful little vessel was
hauling away from us, buzzing round to the
brilliant breeze with a wake following her
white as the shining of the sun on the polished
surface of a scythe.

I thought by her ranging to starboard that
she meant to round into the wind, and so get
her port-tacks aboard for the ratch that she
was upon when first sighted. Instead, when
she had stood away far enough to come round
to the wind under her starboard helm without
chance of striking: us, over went her wheel ;

she spun on her heel Hke some saucy, frisky-woman
in a waltz, and flattening in and bracing
up fore and aft, sweep ! she came for us
again, passing close under our quarter, from no
other motive that I could see than to furnish
her people with another opportunity of uniting
their voices in a long, raging and shrieking
curse upon us. Then like an arrow she was
away astern crossing our wake ; but whilst it
was possible for the naked eye to hold her, one
saw, as it were, the throbbing of the crowd
along her as they shook their maledictions
at us with flourished arms and fists.

When she had fairly settled away into toy-like
dimensions, Mole, who had been watching
her from his position near the main-rigging,
came up to me, and said with the civil air of his
former behaviour, " Sorry to have lost my temper,
sir ; but you know that all hands is resolved
not to speak anything, from a scow to a line-of-battle
ship. That's our resolution, and it 'ud
make things easier if you was to be so good as
to keep as clear an eye upon it as you're fixing
upon the course to Cuba."

Miss Grant said quickly, as though fearing

an indiscretion of temper in me, she wished to
interfere between myself and the man, " Hunger
and thirst are dreadful things, Mr. Mole. Those
people made their necessities very plain to us.
It was the sight of the women and children
that moved Mr. Musgrave."

That's right enough, miss," he answered ;
but who's to know what ailed them ? Supposing
it to have been thirst, what amount of
fresh water calculated to be of any use to such
a army of folks have we got to spare out of our
stock ? There's all the way to Cuba before us,
with the sun pretty nigh overhead every day,
and we've got a right to think of ourselves
first, I allow. 'Sides," he continued, putting the
sharp of his hand to his forehead to gaze at the
now distant sail, and frowning to the brassy
glare that came in folds from the running waters
off each head of sea, " who's going to 'deviate
people there's no understanding ? Human they
was, I essay ; but the likes of such a lump
on a little vessel's deck, swearing, motioning,
patting their guts, making pretend to drink,
and then apparently falling down and cussing
of us, ain't altogether the sort of stroke you'd

look for in natural things, 'specially when the
whole biting is rigged up as if a body of organ-grinders
had turned pirates — stole some blooming
Dutchman's vessel, and then missed their
road."

He talked as if he wished me to find
something humorous in his fancies. Bitterly
indignant and resentful as I secretly felt, I
was not such a fool as to despise an attitude
of conciliation in the one man in whom I
had now had time to observe the others had
confidence, who indeed headed, and no doubt
influenced, the crew ; so I returned him a
few civil, commonplace words, after welch
he went forward, where he stood talking
a while.

A FESTIVE DOG-WATCH.

At sea so much which is strange happens,
that no man who has any knowledge of the Hfe
will trouble himself to hunt about for solutions.
I remember a sailor once telling me, that his
ship being blown to the westwards off the
Civilian coast, deep in the heart of the Pacific
waters, they fell in with a Chinese junk, with
three men and a couple of women on board.
The wonder of this junk lay not in her sides
gray with barnacles and green with weeds,
nor in the queer, weather-befouled aspect of
her faded Asiatic sails, nor in the ragged
look of the blue-gowned, detailed, mustard-coloured
creatures that were on deck ; but in
her being where she was. How came she in
the South Pacific ? It was like the fly in the

amber. The Chinamen made passionate
efforts to represent their condition, but to
no purpose. Not a motion of a hand of theirs
was interpretable, and the captain of the ship
growing wearied, filled on his vessel and
proceeded on his course.

There are confronting, 1 say, in the sea-life,
which, being unintelligible on the face
of them, no man who has his reason will
attempt to explain. It was as likely as not
that the brigantine was a Norwegian that had
fallen in with an emigrant vessel in distress,
had taken off all or most of the people, and
then run short of provisions and water. But
there was so much to keep me thoughtful in
other ways, that, though tragically strange
as it was, it was not an incident to constrain
my attention to it as though all had been
well with us, and the things no more than a
brief break in the monotony of a sunny voyage.
The reflection that grew out of it was — what
sort of treatment were Miss Grant and I
to expect from men in whom selfish fear could
so work as to render them insensible to the
most piteous of all the demands which the

stern usage of the sea can force from human
distress ? It was the same selfish fear that
kept them quiet. One might guess there
would be no mad broaching of rum-puncheons
with them. They were too much alarmed
with their situation to risk anything for the
want of unclouded brains. Indeed, their
sobriety was as good as a hint of their
distrust of me. They very well knew that
my one consuming desire must be to escape
with Miss Grant from the brig ; also that I
was sailor enough to perceive there was no
chance for me in that way outside the speaking
of a ship that would be willing to take us
off They treated me with a sort of negative
civility indeed ; that is to say, they kept away
from our end of the brig, and jumped to my
orders ; but then my knowledge of navigation
rendered me so Important to them that they
could not do without me ; though what haunted
my mind as I stood with Miss Grant, watching
the dim flicker of the brigantine's canvas on
the edge of the wide blue sweep of sea,
was, that a day must presently come when
the high land of Cuba would be heaving

VOL. II. K

into view, and what then would happen ?
There was something, too, Inexpressibly
malignant to my fancy In the request of the
men that I should let them know when we
were within a day's sail of the island ; and
the mere inability to gauge the meaning of
this desire was enough to keep every instinct
in me writhing In a torment of uncertainty.

It was noon however, and I went below
for Breakwater's quadrant. It was a primitive
appliance, and likely as not to be inaccurate.
However, I made eight bells with it, watched
closely by the men as I screwed away at the
sun, and then returned to the cabin to work
out the sights. I used Breakwater's room,
as the conveniences I required were in it,
and whilst I sat at the little table Miss Grant
arrived and stood behind me, looking over
my shoulder as I jotted down the figures.
She was anxious to know where wee were.
I unrolled the chart, and pointed to our
position.

It is still a long way to Cuba," she
exclaimed, bending her stately figure over the
chart. Her mouth was as firm, her face as

composed, her gaze as steadfast, soft, and
serene as though she were viewing some picture
in a book.

*' Yes," I groaned, " a weary long way."
She seated herself on a little locker at the
foot of old Breakwater's bunk. Her beauty
was like a light upon the atmosphere of the
quaint, somewhat darksome interior. You
would have needed to peep in at the door
to appreciate the curiosity of contrast wrought
by her warm and glowing presence, the
glimmer of amber light in threads of her
hair, as though the brown of it vere self-luminous,
the unconscious graceful dignity of
her attitude, and by the odd, rough furniture
of the cabin ; the suit of clothes with the
tarpaulin hat on top, swinging like the figure
of Breakwater himself at the bulkhead ; the
soles of the jack-boots sprawling in the
shadow under the bunk, with he7^ little feet
a yard away from them ; the rough time-bronzed
pilot-coat, hanging behind her as a
canvas, so to speak, for the perfections of
her clear skin and the flash of her dark eyes
to show on.

K 2

She leaned towards me, folding her hands
over her knee, and said, " Will it be possible
to escape from this brig ? "

I started and exclaimed, '' I have been full
of that fancy since the brigantine hauled off
No ; I do not think it is possible. We must
take such luck as we may find here."

I want you to understand, Mr. Musgrave,"
said she, " that if any scheme of escape
should occur to you, you \vill find me equal
to it. I shall not mind what I do, indeed.
I will dress up as a man — I will row an
oar — yes ! I can row. I am not afraid of
firing pistols. Alexander will tell you I ama
brood shot."

"She looked down into her lap with a
faint smile, then her eyes met mine again —
a full gaze, brilliant with inquiry.

"Well," said I, "I had not been in your
company ten minutes before I guessed that
you would be the proper sort of girl for a
pinch. I was right, and so you see, spite
of my being so young, I am capable of
taking a correct view sometimes of human
nature."

She laughed softly, and with a foreign
gesture of her hand said, " You are too
impetuous, too emotional. One would hardly
think you an Englishman, you abandon yourself
so readily to impressions."

*' It may be as you say," said I, feeling
somehow almost as much confused by her
manner and by her beauty as on the day
when she had first stood before me in the
parlour of the London lodging-house ; " but
this anxiety is new in you. What makes you
talk of escaping from the brig ? "

Simply — as I have said, Mr. IMusgrave —
that if you have any scheme I am willing
to bear as good a part in it as if I were a
man." She drew herself erect, as though she
would suggest physical as well as intellectual
strength.

I have no scheme," said I ; " would to
God I could see my way to one ! "

'' Insight we not lower the boat that hangs
at the vessel's side ? "

I shook my head quickly. " No," said I,
there is always the fellow at the wheel.
How should wee be able to lower a boat,

even on the blackest night, unperceived by
him ? "

'but could you not gag him?" said she.
I could help you to pinion him, and then
stand over him pistol in hand," smiling, yet
with a world of resolution in her gaze,
'' whilst you let the boat sink to the water."

I went to the door and peeped out to
make sure that nobody was listening.

Supposing," said I, approaching her close
that she might hear my voice, which was
scarce more than a whisper, '^ we should
succeed in getting away in the boat, what
would be our fate in a little open ark in the
middle of the great Atlantic, exposed all day
to the broiling sun, and all night to the
heavy dews, to say nothing of squalls, thunderstorms,
gales, putrefying calms, and the rest
of the conditions of the glorious ocean life ?
No, no ! dismiss ^/m^ from your mind — for
your own sake. Miss Grant — my cousin would
shoot me for subjecting you to such risks
and privations. But," I continued anxiously,
for I thought I might find a hint in her
woman's cleverness, " this thought is new in

you. Why do you wish to escape from the
brig ? A bitter strong wish it must be when,
to gratify it, you are willing to face the hazard
of an open boat."

Oh, Mr. Musgrave, I am shocked by the
inhumanity of the crew. I had believed them
plain sailors forced into evil by bad treatment,
but whose better natures would appear again
when the tyranny they suffered from had ceased.
I think so no longer. I fear their intentions
towards us may be — may be — I am frightened
by the vagueness of their directions to you.
They speak of Cuba, but they name no part
of it."

'' Hush! " I cried, hearing a footstep. Mole
put his head in at the door, knocking with his
great knuckles on the bulkhead as he did so.

'' Beg pardon," said he ; "I thought I'd just
come along and see how the land lies with us
to-day."

There was insolence in this intrusion, but
then I had to consider it was my own bringing
about. He stood in the doorway, peering in,
in a posture civil enough, cap in hand, filling
the frame of the door with his great figure.

'' Here," said I, putting my finger upon
the chart, " is the brig's position to day at
noon."

He came to the table and peered close.

'' The vessel's heading west by south," said
he, after a pause ; '' this here map don't show
the West Indies."

No," said I, " it is the North Atlantic only ;
but there should be a track-chart in that bag to
give you all the bearings you want."

There were nearly a dozen charts rolled up
in the bag. I pulled out four, and on opening
the fifth found it to be what I needed — a track-chart
of the world. This I spread before Mole,
and left him to find out for himself whither a
west by south course would carry us from the
point of latitude and longitude I penciled upon
the chart. It is an old saying, and a terribly
trite one too, that a man must go afloat to seethe
wonders of the Lord ; and 'tis equally true,
that a man who is a lover of strange, odd,
surprising pictures, will find them nowhere in
greater perfection than at sea. When I recall
that little cabin, with the dim blue light sifting
through the glass of the closed scuttle — the

muscular, swaying figure of the sun-darkened
seaman stooping over the chart, his great hairy
paws flat upon the table, his hair hanging from
his brow like a fall of rain from the edge of a
cloud — Miss Grant sitting silent and watchful,
her white fingers clasped upon her knee, with
the flash of a gem there that seemed to be
reflected in every slight movement of her dark
eyes — myself subduing the worry and anger
within me to the best careless demeanour that
I could contrive by leaning my cheek upon my
hand, softly whistling some light sea-tune, to
which I kept time by an easy striking of the
table with the pencil I held — Breakwater's
clothes swinging with the swaying of the ship
from pegs in the bulkhead, with other rude,
homely details of ocean furniture, already described,
to fill, as it were, the spaces between the
human interests of that interior with novel
colour and touches remote from all shore-eoinof
experience ; — I say, when I recall this picture,
I ask myself, Where's the like of such a scene
to be encountered save on that liquid surface,
whose cradling respirations deepened yet the
strangeness of the whole by communicating

those vitalizing elements of sound and motion
incommunicable by the pen ?

Mole stood erect presently, and looked for
his cap.

'well, I hope the course I am shaping
satisfies you ?" said I.

'' It'll work out as true as a hair, it seems tome,"
he answered.

To what part of Cuba are we sailing, Mr.
Mole ? " inquired Miss Grant, in her most
natural manner, without any attempt at an
artless voice or a face of innocent wonderment.

We ain't decided yet," he answered
promptly, picking up his cap and going to the
door. " We mean to keep Charles clear of the
gallows if we can. Cuba's a good bit off yet,
and when Mr. Musgrave lets us know that it's
within a day's sail, we may have to tarn to and
discuss what's to be done, unless we've come to
an agreement beforehand."

He gave a nod towards the state-cabin, and
turning upon us again, said, 'the cook's asked
me to say your dinner's ready, sir." He then
went on deck.

We found a very tolerable meal prepared for

us. The cook, having put the dishes upon the
table, left us to ourselves ; and as we sat close,
together we were able to talk freely without fear
of our subdued voices penetrating to any
attentive ear that might be lurking at the skylight.
I told ]\Iiss Grant it would need very
little consideration to assure us both that, if we
valued our lives, we must make no effort to
escape by the hazard of such a deed of violence
as that of gagging and pinioning the man at the
wheel. Failure, I said, must lead to my being
murdered out of hand, and then she was to
think of herself ais alone with a lawless body of
people, who, on the strength of our attempt,
would hold themselves discharged from the
obligation they now recognized to keep their
distance and treat us civilly.

She shuddered at this. " It is the dread,"
she exclaimed, pressing her hand to her forehead,
" of anything happening that might
separate us, that might end in leaving me alone
with these men — it is this dread, l\Ir. Musgrave,
which makes me talk of attempting to escape
whilst we are together, and whilst I feel my
spirit equal to any call that you can make

Upon it. The prospect of an open boat is
dreadful, I admit, but it would be paradise in
comparison to my finding myself alone in this
brig."

"It is because we must remain together,
come what may," said I, speaking with a degree
of emphasis and passion, as I can now recall, to
which I have little doubt in another mood her
eyes would have sunk with such a little trembling
play of smile on her lips as I had once
before noticed, " that I dare not risk our being
separated by so much as the movement of a
finger, without feeling sure of the result.
Besides," I continued, sinking my voice again,
'' even if we should agree to attempt to escape
by the boat, it would be better to wait until
we had closed the Cuba coast than commit ourselves
to the heart of the great solitude we are
now in." I said, gently and soothingly, " You
have been shocked by the cruelty of the menin
refusing help to the people of the brigantine.
Their behaviour has excited a new dread of
them in you. You have suffered a little shadow
to darken your glorious courage. But again
and again you have told me to believe that all

will be well. All will be well ! ' I exclaimed,
taking her hand in both mine ; "you have too.
much of the heroine in you to render the issue
of this horrible voyage uncertain. Your courage
will shine out afresh. A little patience and the
gloom will have passed. I need every bit of
encouragement you can give me, and shall bethe
pluckier and the stronger for your own
strength and bravery."

She kept her face averted, and a tear fell from
her cheek. I believe I never acted more wisely
in my life than by leaving her without another
word and withdrawing to my cabin, and remaining
there until I felt calm enough to be able to
talk to her with clear perception of the meaning
of my presence on board, and of the object of
our journey.

When the dog-watch between six and eight
came round, the evening was so gentle and
lovely that I cannot remember the like of it.
All day long we had kept the brig under the
same canvas which had been set in the morning,
and she still floated forwards to the tender propulsion
of the white cloths, rising in soft spaces
to the sun-gilt trucks, whilst the sheen flowing

off the studding-sails, which overhung the sides,
trembled in the blue surface under the swinging-boom
as though the water were touched with a
beam of moonshine there. But the breeze had
weakened into a quiet wind that scarcely gave
us a speed of three miles in the hour. The sea
was tremulous under the warm breathing of the
wind, but every ripple ran fearlessly, and the
swell was so faint you had to watch the mast-heads
to make sure that the airy life you felt in
the deck was not fanciful. I had charge of the
brig, and often stopped in my walk to exchange
a few sentences with Miss Grant, who was seated
near the skylight. The ugly half-caste Ladova
was at the wheel. A few seamen were sitting
on the forecastle-head smoking, but presently I
noticed the cook come out of his little caboose
with a small kid or tub in his hand, the steam
of which seemed grateful to him, for as he
walked on to the forecastle he kept his head
overhanging it as though inhaling it. He set
the kid down very carefully near the scuttle.
The loungers in the head gathered round, and
seemed to sniff up the incense with great
satisfaction, as might be gathered from their

several postures and the expressions on their
faces, though I was at too great a distance to
hear what they said. The cook returned to
the caboose, and shortly afterwards emerged
with an armful of pannikins, which he placed
close alongside the steaming kid. I eyed these
proceedings uneasily. It was not hard to guess
that the steam yonder rose from something
stronger than water. One of the fellows put
his head into the scuttle and called out, and ina
few moments the rest of the crew came on
deck. Amongst them was Mole, who sprang
through the hatch with a fiddle in his hand.
His first act was to step up to the kid, dip a
pannikin into it, and take a sip. The brew was
evidently to his taste, for he gave the cook a
nod, drained the pannikin, and screwing the
fiddle to his shoulder, fell to tuning it.

They mean to be merry," said I to Miss
Grant.

*' Will there not be enough drink in that
wooden tub," she said, " to make them
intoxicated ? "

Depends on the strength of the mixture,"
said I. " Mole gave me his word that there

should be no drunkenness aboard us. I fancy
the fellows are too distrustful of me to swallow
more than will hearten them to a couple of hours
of jollity. Strange there should have been a
fiddle aboard all this time, and it should never
have been played until now. 'Tis to be Jack's
reqiiieni over Breakwater. God help us ! what
a muddle that creature has brought us into."

Just then Mole held up his hand to attract
my attention. " Jest a bit of sailors' pleasuring,
Mr. Musgrave," he sang out ; '' no modern '11
help us to tune up our pipes, and put a bit
of spring into our flat feet."

I responded quickly, with an answering
flourish of my hand. 'you're quite right, my
lads. Never was there a crew more fairly
entitled to a spell of merr^^-making."

Boys ! " shouted Mole, who seemed somewhat
excited, " to the lady, bullies ! Dip to her
and to his honour atop, my liveries. Time
from me, my noble fellows ! "

Hold !" I cried, entering into the spirit of
the thing, " let Ladova be of you."

I went to the wheel. " Jump," said I, " and
drink our healths ! "

He ran forward. Mole then dipped for a
second draught, and stood with his pannikin
poised, waiting for the others to fill. It eras a
sea-picture just then to haunt a man to his grave,
so charged was the colour, the beauty, the freshness
of it, with the horrible significance of the
condition of things aboard. The manly. handsome
ho:ure of ]\Iole, in white duck trousers,
blue shirt leavings his mossy breast bare, round
hat perched on the back of his head, arms of a
giant naked to above the elbow, holding his
pannikin high in marine festive posture — the
group behind, with their pannikins upheld in
imitation of him. here and there a bright eye
gleaming out of a shaggy face past some
brawny shoulder, the olive features of the
half-blood contrasting with the dingy white of
the cook — the smoking crimson background of
the west, against whose effulgent reaches, rising
from scarlet at the sea-line to a sweep of
delicate golden haze over the masthead, each
fissure stood out clear cut — the loveliness of the
great circle curving from the glory over one
bathed into the dark blue of the east, and
back again to the effulgent sky and sea over

vol. II. L

the bow ; — it was indeed a scene not to be
lightly forgotten, charged as it was with the
spirit of the beauty of the evening, and with
the memory of murder and of bitter wrongdoing,
and with our present fears.

Time from me, my liveries ! " cried Mole,
with a look over either shoulder ; then holding
his pannikin high and gazing aft, " One — Two
Three ! " At the last word, and in utter
silence, flash went every man's pannikin to his
mouth, and in token that our healths had been
effectually drunk, every fellow held his pannikin
inverted. The thing was done with a military
precision that must have won a laugh from meat
any other time ; but before merriment was
practicable, one wanted to know how much
liquor the kid held, and how much spirit had
gone to the manufacture of the contents of the
little tub.

Miss Grant rose and courtesies towards the
forecastle with inimitable grace, whilst I raised
my hat to the dumb salute of the inverted
pannikins. Then Ladova returned, and I fell
to pacing the deck again, saying to Miss Grant,
as I lingered abreast of her a moment with a

careless glance aloft, that this was a sign of
goodwill on the part of the men that ought to
help the courage of us both.

Mole seized his fiddle afresh, and vaulting onto
the forecastle-capstan played a brisk polka.
Next to jigging, Jack loves polling ; the hornpipe
heads the list, but the polka stands next.
The sailors formed themselves into couples, and
in a few moments were twisting and sliding
round the musician. There was fun to be got
out of even the mere sight of the capers their
legs cut, and the enjoyment on their faces
grinning over one another's shoulders as they
revolved. The cook, wanting a partner, danced
alone, a detail of this little passage of jollity
that rendered the whole scene inexpressibly
childish. I said to Miss Grant, "Is there in
all human nature a simpler-hearted creature than
the sailor ? What landsman could find diversion
in dancing as those fellows are ? In fact," said I,
"Jack has all the simplicity of the savage, with
a touch of the savage's unpleasant qualities.
There is nothing in memory to hinder him.
Observe how heartily Mole saws, as if all had
been and still was as well with this ship as at

L 2

the day she lay In the Pool. Only a few hours
ago one or maybe more yonder struck Broad-water
down and tossed him overboard. Yet the
punch is not the less sweet to their palates. They
shake as lively a foot as any sinless soul could."

See the half-blood ! He dances all over.
Every bit of him to his very eyes Is on the
move. He hops about with pure Spanish
enjoyment. That rude deck there might be a
ball-room for him, and the rough company of the
sailors a polished fandango," said Miss Grant.

"Ay," said I, " and I dare say he would not
quiver about the less briskly for the thought
that the shadow of the gallows which awaits
him lies dark to the light of the setting sun,
somewhere behind the slope of that sea-line."

And yet somehow, spite of the gloomy
thoughts which came to me out of these merrymaking
Jacks, there was something In the sound
of the fiddle, and in their skimming and twisting
figures, to give a deeper oceanic meaning
to the whole picture of the brig, slowly pushing
her way towards the crimson west, with the
ripple from her stem curling into a flash of golden
fire as It arched round to the sun, than it got

from the mere sapphire and scarlet and hectic
of the heavens, and the lovely blue of the sea
floating ahead of us, and melting into the brightness
under our jibboom. I thought to myself.
What ship sailing within earshot of us would
guess that this peaceful brig had been the theatre
of tragedies as dreadful in their way as anything
of a like kind that has ever happened upon the
high seas ? But every vessel afloat has an
inner and secret life of her own. A procession
of ships is like a concourse of human beings ;
no man can imagine what is passing in the
hearts of them — what wild, what glad, what
frightful, what pathetic memories may linger
In their dark and sealed depths. Viewed from
a distance on this evening, the Iron Crown
would have presented a spectacle full of beauty,
of softness, of gentleness, into which there would
have entered a seeming element of happiness,
of peace, and of Innocence, from the cheerful notes
of the fiddle over which yonder manly-looking
sailor's head drooped, and from the brisk and
hearty figures which sliced round about the
capstan, with a sailor's true delight In every heave
of the leg and in every revolution of the body.

MAROONED. chap.

When the polka came to an end, Mole dismounted
and handed the fiddle to the half-blood,
who, grinning with an almost negro-like countenance
of enjoyment, took the others place,
and struck up the well-known hornpipe air,
"Jack Robinson." Mole took the deck alone;
the others, every man holding a pannikin
newly dipped, drew off hot and merry to look
on, some sitting, some lounging. Carefully
screwing his hat on his head. Mole took the
preliminary walk round, and then broke into
the ocean-dance, with the perched figure of the
half-blood behind him fiddling most ably. I
never in all my life saw the hornpipe better
danced. There was so much expertness indeed
as almost to make one forget one's dislike of
the fellow. The admiration of the spectators
sobered their grins, and they gazed with sedate
appreciation. Sometimes one or another rapped
out, 'hurrah, bully! You're the lad for the
girls ! " " Swing to it, my lively ! " " Bully for
you, Terry, bully for you ! " and the like, accompanied
by a frequent lifting of the pannikins.
With his hat "on nine hairs," as sailors say, his
arms sometimes folded upon his breast, sometimes

one hand upon his hip, the other Hated,
his loose white trousers fluttering against the
scarlet background, his rough hair tossing upon
his brow, with the spirit of the thing shining in
his eyes, Mole slapped the deck with his feet
till it rattled like castanets in the hands of a
Spanish dancer, jigging it so inimitably well
indeed that Miss Grant could not remove her
eyes from him, whilst I gazed positively
fascinated by the gilded sea-picture. Indeed,
it stirred old memories in me as nothing else
had done since we first weighed anchor. It
took me back to the forecastle of the grand old
Indiaman when the sultry dog-watch was growing
cool to the dewy eastern shadow. I clapped
my hands loudly when ^lole, half-breathless
with exertion and purple with heat, brought his
dance to an end with a smart blow of his foot
and a bow to us aft, as finely managed as any
courtier could have contrived it. Then after an
interval he took the fiddle ao-ain, and the others
fell a-dancing, and when they were tired they
sang songs.

By this time the evening had drawn over us.
There were long lines of hectic in the west and

rusty streaks of expiring scarlet, but the stars
were shining brilliantly, and the gloom of the
night was already darkening out the forecastle
upon the eye into an airy dusk, amid which the
shapes of the seamen were scarcely visible.
But I had already noticed with satisfaction that
the tub, which had been tilted that the last drop
might be dipped out of it, was left replenished.
One fellow sang with a fine voice — who it was
I knew not ; it was a clear rich baritone, and went
floating up amongst the sails, whose wan hollows
gave the notes back in dim echoes. I leaned
with Miss Grant over the rail listening. An
occasional delicate sob of water rose from the
clear profound, clouded with misty bursts of
sea fire, which, mingling with the fellow's voice,
gave a quality of softness and even of pathos toit.
Nearly all the songs sung were of a sentimental
cast, and were accompanied by either
Mole or Charles with the fiddle ; and though
broad daylight would no doubt have found the
sounds for the most part commonplace enough,
yet the airs, even when delivered by some
hoarser pipe than usual, took a note of romance
and a quality of unreality from the overshadowing

presence of the liquid night, the melancholy
spaciousness of the dark sea extending on all.
sides, the dimness of the extended wings of
canvas on high, the stillness upon the deep that
was scarce disturbed by the breathing of the
warm, dew-laden night-wind into the sails, and
the almost oppressive hush you found when
amid the intervals of the songs you sent your
gaze into the dark blue dome brilliant with stars
which jewelled every point of spar, every
shadowy end of boom, every phantasmal length
of yard of the faint, pale fabric, looming large
above the delicate glimmer of the decks.

All was hushed and in darkness forward ; one
figure alone could be made out crossing the
stars in a regular pendulum tread on the forecastle,
when Mole came aft to relieve me. The
excitement of the drink and the dance had gone
out of him. He said, " Ye see the men are
well in hand, ]mr. r^Iusgrave ; there's notion to
be feared from their liqicorizing, as I told
you."

I was glad to notice that," I answered ;
"your publications, indeed your doings of any
kind, are no concern of mine outside the lady's

Mx\ROONED. CHAP.

safety and my own. I heartily wish that you
understood navigation, and that you could take
charge of the brig, for in that case you would
have no objection to putting Miss Grant and
me aboard the first craft that would be willing
to take us. The deuce of it is, Mr. Mole,"
continued I — for I hoped he might have come
to me with a disposition rendered a trifle
generous by the dog-watch festivity, and would
be willing therefore to talk a little more freely
than at another time — "the lady is bound to
Rio under my charge, to be married to a cousin
of mine who lives at that place, and the road
there by way of Cuba threatens so long a delay,
that besides the secret grieving of the lady over
her prolonged separation from her sweetheart
and you, Mr. Mole, as an English sailor, will
understand her feelings — there is the worry of
my cousin to be considered. He will think the
ship lost ; he may fancy me false to my trust
perhaps."

He waited a little before answering, and then
said very civilly, *' I can quite understand yours
and the lady's feelings. We're all sorry for ye
both, I assure you ; but we don't mean to let

Charles swing ; we don't intend to put ourselves
in the way of the law, and so, as you've been
already given plain to understand, Mr. Mus-grave,
there mustn't be, and there won't be, no
speaking of ships. 'Sides," he continued, with
a sudden rounding upon me, so to speak, in his
manner, "supposing the hands consented to
your trans-shipping yourselves, ain't it a million
to one that the vessel wouldn't be bound to
Rio, or anywheres near it ? In that case," he
added with a laugh, which he instantly checked*'
you're as well off here ; for Cuba's nearer to
Rio than the Cape o' Good Hope or the Indies
'ud be, and for all you know, the ship you enter
might be bound to them parts, or further off
still — to Chine or New Zealand."

Spite of his civil manner, I judged there was
little more to come from a chat with him than
ill-temper on his side and increased mortification
and anxiety on mine, so telling him that the
course to be steered throughout the night was
the course we had been heading all day, I went
below to join Miss Grant. I told her what
]Mole had said, and we sat talking till about
nine o'clock ; and then observing her to look

very weary, for she had slept but Httle during
the previous night, I begged her to withdraw,
saying that I myself needed rest, as I should
have to turn out again at twelve o'clock.
Nevertheless, though professing myself tired,
I was in no humour to go to bed. It was impossible
to sit alone in that cabin without thinking
of old Breakwater, a fancy that sent the
eye instinctively to the smudge that still lurked
darkly in the stain of the wood at the foot of
the cabin-steps. A stouter heart than mine
might have owned to a sense of timidity without
a feeling of shame. The voyage indeed had
been more like a nightmare than the grim
reality it was, with its teeming life of brutality
and ugly deeds. It seemed but yesterday that
the brig had floated past the bald terrace of the
South Foreland, and yet in the brief interval of
the few weeks seven men of Our slender
company had vanished one after another, and
every man to such an accompaniment of tragic
and scaring conditions as to cause the memory
of his death or of his going to lie upon the
mind with the significance of yonder stain upon
the planks. Then again I was haunted by the

recollection of the gaping and supplicating
figures which had that morning piteously
motioned to us for help, and of the white
bearded old man whose uplifted eyes and
trembling, pointing hand had made his curse
upon us as articulate as though the ear had
received every syllable of the malediction.

But this sitting alone, with nothing to break
in upon one's thoughts but the thin, weak
groans of the fabric stealthily swayed, was but
melancholy work. I went to my cabin, and
was about to undress myself, when it occurred
to me, that since the brig was now in possession
of the crew, whose condition might not be
quite so sober as that of Mole, It would be as
well for me to look to my pistols. I charged
and primed them both, and then remembering
that Miss Grant had talked as though she
could handle a fire-arm with thorough knowledge
of Its use, I resolved to give her one of
the brace to lodge under her pillow, or to place
ready to hand. I did not doubt that a spirit
such as hers would find something conical and
supporting in the mere notion of a loaded
weapon lying close to her grasp. In sober

truth, I feared more for her than for myself
My life was too serviceable to the men just now
to render me uneasy on my own account ; but
it was otherwise with Miss Grant. Who could
tell but that amongst that lawless band there
were some — even one — with instincts to be
easily rendered devilish with liquor ? I see
myself now, standing in that little cabin, grasping
a pistol in either hand, my imagination
forward in the forecastle, picturing the dim
light of the slush-lamp there, flinging its faint,
wavering illumination over the seamen sitting
in their bunks, or with hairy faces overhanging
the edges of their hammocks, dangerously gathered
with the drink they had drained, and
with the dance and songs, which, coming into
their hard lives, were a sort of intoxication in
themselves, talking of their jinks ashore, of
their carousals, of their Polls and Susans, till
one of them perhaps would speak of Miss

Grant

I opened my door, crossed the narrow
passage, and gently knocked upon the bulkhead
of my companion's cabin. She instantly
asked who it was that knocked. I answered.

In a few moments she opened the door. The
hight from my own cabin-lamp was upon her,
for the berths were exactly abreast. Her hair
hung upon her shoulders, one hand grasped
the neck of her dressing-gown against her
white throat, giving her an aspect of sudden
alarm, which the peculiar brilliance of her steadfast
eyes could not have defeated but for the
composure of her lips.

'' What is it, Mr. Musgrave ? " she asked.

I now regretted my action. Here was I
grasping a brace of pistols, and it seemed a
stupid and nervous bit of behaviour in me to
disturb this girl, and thus confront her.

'* You have told me you are not afraid of
fire-arms," I exclaimed. " It has occurred tome
that one of these — "

She looked at the weapon I extended with a
smile, then without a word entered her cabin
and returned.

"There," she exclaimed, 'you will see that I
am as fully prepared as you. Indeed I think I
am better off, for yours, I fancy, are a little
old-fashioned, whilst mine I am sure would
prove the deadlier weapon."

She Stepped aside that the Hght might shine
upon the pistol she held. It was a very handsome
piece, with a long glittering barrel, mounted
in silver. " See," she exclaimed, raising it.
Her nostrils trembled, she drew herself erect
with a slight backward leaning of her head, and
levelled the pistol past me with a smile that
was made almost scornful by the proud,
sparkling determination of the gaze she fixed
upon me. Oh, for a painter's brush to give
you the queenly figure and pose of her
as she thus stood ! Her arms sank to her
side, and she said quietly, " Have no fear forme,
Mr. Muserave. Should I be called
upon to defend myself, I shall know how todo
it."

I again wished her good-night, and returned
to my cabin, feeling somehow, as Jonathan says,
a bit mean, though for what reason I do not
know, unless it was that such a combination of
beauty, coolness, and courage made one fancy
that the best sort of manhood in comparison
with it could not but be somewhat insignificant.
Indeed it did me good to think of the tear she
had let fall that day, and to remember that

now and again a natural timidity and fear had
broken out. After all, thought I, as I looked
round for a convenient hiding-place for my
pistols, it is always the woman that forms the
most admirable part of the heroine.

VOL. II. M

MAROONED.

However, as It turned out, the fears which
had led me to the handing of my fire-arms and
to my disturbing Miss Grant, proved groundless.
The night passed quietly. Mole roused
me at eight bells by beating over my head, and
when I went on deck I found him as vigilant
as need be, the ship sailing quietly along, the
watch below turning out, everything as orderly,
in short, as though Breakwater still had charge,
with Mr. Bothwell at hand as an Instrument
to drive discipline home with.

So it was next day, and so It was next night,
and for many days and many nights afterwards.
For a whole week together wee sailed along
without handling a brace or lifting the clews
of a royal. To be sure, it was weather to be

expected In those parallels. The trade-wind
hummed over our quarter, sometimes merrily
enough to put an edge of froth to the curl of
dark blue ripple, sometimes so softly that I
would think we had lost it, when I noticed the
light, long, azure swathes winding as unwrinkled
as a surface of polished steel to the blue distance
with the shadowing of the tender draught
between. The men were very orderly ; they
kept to their quarters, and never one of them,
with the exception of ^IoIq or the cook, who
punctually waited upon us, so much as put a
foot upon the companion steps. They did no
work ; the decks remained unwashed ; what
trifling decoration of brass there was about
the vessel grew green ; the paintwork became
grimy and blotched with heat and neglect ; the
sailors lounged about the deck all day, smoking
and yarning, and then when the cool of the
second dog-watch came, they would fill their
little tub with punch, dance, sing songs, and
fall to the sort of merry-making I have described.
The pigs belonging to the brig they
killed by degrees, and also made free with the
cabin provisions and the live stock ; but our

M 2

own private stores they never offered to touch.
Every day, after working out my observations,
I would show Mole our position on the chart,
but I was careful not to question him. In fact
his own and the resolved attitude of the others
satisfied me that they had made up their minds,
that they had agreed upon a scheme from which
nothing was to divert them, and of which it
was their intention to keep me in ignorance ;
and I saw there was no remedy for Miss Grant
and myself but patience.

Well, the time passed In this way, one day
being the counterpart of another, and the hours
seemed as minutes when one looked back, so
monotonous it all was, though our consuming
expectation and anxiety made the end seem so
remote that I would feel sometimes as if I must
fall mad from the mere waiting for It. Now
and again, but at long intervals, we sighted a
sail ; but It was always at a distance, and I
would bring my eye with a sort of loathing In
me from the gleam of it, so ironical would be
its accentuation of our condition, so idle and
distracting the yearnings it awoke in me. But
one day there came a change of weather. A

shift of wind had happened in the morning
watch when I was below, and when I went on
deck I found the atmosphere thick, the breeze
off the port-bow, and the brig under all plain
sail, with the yards braced fore and aft. I
made nothing of this at first, for I never doubted
that it would brighten out into tropical fairness
again in an hour ; but finding that it continued,
I grew uneasy. For, as I could catch no sight
of the sun, there was nothing for it but to depend
upon dead reckoning ; and as throughout
I had no very profound faith in myself as a
navigator, and less faith still in the accuracy
of old Breakwater's rusty appliances of aged
quadrant and infirm chronometer, I feared that
my earlier calculations, supplemented by such
guesswork as dead reckoning implies, would
find me all adrift when the time came, as I
should suppose, to report that Cuba might be
looked for in twelve or twenty-four hours. I
say I was afraid, for reassuring as might bethe
behaviour of the men noir, it was impossible
to foresee what posture they would take if they
should find me wrong in my navigation. Indeed
my very life might depend upon my

accuracy. They would suspect I had wilfully
deceived them, and God alone knows what
usage I should receive from them if they
worked themselves into a passion over this
fancy.

The nights were as thick as the days. I
never turned out in the dark without an eager
look aloft ; but the gloom came down to our
masthead ; not the leanest phantom of a star
was ever visible, and the dawn was again and
again the same feeble filtering of granite-coloured
light through a sullen grayness ot
heaven that yet left the sea-line bare to its
confines ; and the breeze blowing warm and
moist as a woman's breath over the olive-tinctured
deep, never once parted this melancholy
shadow into a break wide enough to
give us the dimmest view of the azure behind
it. I told Mole that as the brig was off her
course, with a certain amount of leeway to be
accounted for, and as I had nothing to depend
upon but the log line, it would be impossible
for me to guarantee that we should hit the
Cuba coast. I said this to him at noon on
the second day of the thick weather, whilst

with quadrant in hand I stood hoping for an
apparition of the sun.

He looked at me suspiciously under the
mat of hair that drooped upon his brow, and
said, " But we ain't outside five days' sail
of It, are we ? "

About that," I answered.

'' Then how can we fall hitting the Island ? "
he exclaimed. " It's long enough ; there's
range of coast to keep It In sight If It was as
high In the air as the moon Is. The brig's
head's west by north, half-north, two and a half
points off. Our position being known, we
shall be able to tell when It Is time to go
about."

'' Ay," said I, '' but put her about, and where
will she be heading to ? South-south-east won't
serve our turn, Mr. Mole. Besides, I'm not
sure of the currents hereabouts. Captain
Breakwater's Instruments are not of the best,
you must know, and his charts are as old as
his quadrant. He had made the run to Rio so
often that he could smell his way along ; but
here am I, no experienced navigator, mind you,
heading right away off Breakwater's course,

and thrusting into a smother that leaves me
nothing but the log-Hne to work my way by."

I saw he did not Hke this at all. He eyed
me very uneasily, with a shadow of temper
rising to his face.

'^ Should be mere crow-flying work, it seems
to me," he exclaimed ; '* 'ain't as if it was a
rock you was heading for. Look at the length
of the Cuba coast, sir, on the chart. West by
south's the course ; that's undoubted, if the
compass don't lie. Merry well ; you're within
five days of a range pretty nigh as long as one
side of Europe. How can ye be a-missing of
it with the log a-going every two hours, and
the course showing clear in yonder binnacle ? "

"As you are so cock-sure," said I, defiantly,
'* I heartily wish you would relieve me of the
responsibility of navigating the vessel. Since
you know all about it, take charge of her !
I've done my best, and will resign my trust
gladly."

No, no, by ," he cried, with an oath ;

'* we've kept to our side of the agreement, you
keep to your. You undertook, under conditions
which the crew's complied with, to

navigate this brig to within a day's sail of Cuba,
and then tell us when we was arrived at it.
We must hold ye to that, sir," he added, with a
dark look.

*' What I've done, I've done honestly," said
I ; " I have been as loyal on my side as I admit
the crew have been conscientious on theirs.
Use me as you will — I am in your power and
cannot help myself, and you know it ! — I have
performed ?ny share of the cursed compact ! "
with which I turned on my heel, leaving him
standing and following me with his eyes.

Well, for five days and five nights the thick
weather lasted. The end then came, very
fortunately for mee, for had this spell of bitter
anxiety been protracted another week, I believe
my mind would have become unhinged. The
distrust of the men had grown so keen that
they watched me as if I were a rattle-snake.
Their very ignorance of navigation rendered
them the more suspicious. Every day ^lole
took the chart forward and showed them where
we were, by dead reckoning, and you would
see them shouldering one another as they
looked, flinging a note of growling upon the

air with their combined utterances, pointing to
the chart with their thumbs, and then gazing
around the sea as If there should be something
these to furnish them with a hint of the true
situation of the brig.

At four o'clock on-the morning of the sixth
day, when Mole arrived on the quarter-deck to
relieve me, the ocean lay as darkly shrouded as
It had been at any time since the first of this
gloom had gathered around us. The wind had
shifted at noon on the previous day, and the
course I then shaped was west-south-west, but
at midnight It had headed us again, and the
brig had broken off to west by north. Yet the
breeze had been steady throughout ; we had
shown royal to it the whole time, and it had
made life as easy-going aboard as ever the
steady wafting of the trade-wind had ; that Is to
say, it demanded no pulling and hauling from
the men, no furling or setting again. Under a
close luff the Iron Crown broke the short gray
seas with her larboard bow with a handsome
trend to leeward, as was to be noticed by the
run of the short streak of oily wake veering
away on the quarter.

'Stole was grim and surly as an unshaven
sailor newly awakened when he arrived. I was
not less sullen than he, sick at heart with the
four hours' straining of my eyes in search of a
star, and weary besides with the fatigue that
comes to a man out of anxiety, idle conjecture,
and a sense of uncertainty, that in my case was
heightened by waiting into a sort of anguish.
I briefly and sulkily gave him the news of
the four hours, which amounted to nothing,
and with a yawn and a shiver went below, and
to bed.

I was awakened from a deep sleep by a
thumping of heavy knuckles on the bulkhead
outside. I started up, conceiving I had overslept
myself ; that it was past the hour, in
short, when I should have relieved Mole ; but
on looking at my watch, which hung at hand,
I observed it was but seven o'clock. The
knocking was repeated.

Who's there ? " I sang out.

The ruff voice of a seaman named Williamson
answered, " Mr. Mole wants ye on deck,
sir."

*' Right," I answered, jumping out of my

bunk, whilst I wondered if some fresh tragedy
had happened, for my being called in this way
brought the morning of Breakwater's disappearance
to my mind, and that was a memory
to crowd my imagination with a score of black
fears and anticipations. Meanwhile I took
notice that the weather had cleared, and that it
was a fine bright morning. The shining of the
sunlight upon the scuttle puzzled me. It came
full to the glass in a brimming of white
splendour off the sea, whereas if we were
holding our course the luminary should be
nearly astern, with a slanting of his radiance
along our sides, out of which no beam could
twist to lie as the light now lay in a circular
tremble of pale gold upon the door facing the
scuttle. Nor could I immediately fail to observe
that the brig floated steady. My ear was too
practised not to rightly interpret the slopping
sounds of water against the run. She rolled
slightly with much internal creaking, as was
natural to her ; but I did not need to go on
deck to gather that either her topsail was to
the mast or that her anchor was down.

What had happened ? I lingered a minute

or two outside my cabin-door, with my ear
against the bulkhead of ]\Iiss Grant's berth.
All was still within. I knocked, then called
out gently, " Is it well with you, Miss Grant ?"

'•'Yes ; what is it now, ]Mr. ]\Iusgrave ?" she
replied.

I answered, '' I cannot tell. I am now eine
on deck."

I will join you shortly," she said.

It was comforting to hear her voice. In
such a vessel as the Iron Crown it was impossible
to know what might happen from hour
to hour, and I protest, when I listened and
heard no sound in my companion's cabin, such
a chill of dismay for an instant fell upon my
heart, that the sensation was as bad in its way
as the realization of a fear. But all was well
with her, and without further lingering I
stepped on deck.

It takes a man a little time to collect the
details of a picture. For a moment perhaps I
stood in the companion-way, looking aloft and
upon the decks, and then round upon the sea.
The brig, as I had expected to find her, was
hove-to. Her mainsail was hauled up, the topsail

aback, the royal clewed down. It was a very
clear, brilliant morning. Every vestige of the
leaden, oppressive atmosphere that had environed
us throughout the week had disappeared.
The sea-line ran with a crystalline
sheen like the edge of a lens out of the west ;
carrying the airy, delicate gleam with it in its
curvature to the east, where it broke into white
flame under the hot and mounting sun.

Directly on our starboard-beam, at the
distance of a mile or less, stood an island.
The blue went past it on both hands and the
atmospheric hue of the sky beyond was
assurance positive to the nautical eye that the
ocean was on that side as well as on this. It
showed a seaboard of a couple of miles ; the
foreshore of it apparently coral sand, which to
the sunshine dazzled out almost blindingly
against the dark green background of bush,
tree, and small savanna. Here and there that
lustrous beach curved into a little creak with an
overhanging of palm-trees on either side of it,
like human beings bowing to one another.
The breeze was light, there was scarce an
undulation of swell, and the thin line of surf

crawling out of the blue surface on to the sand
came to the eye in a radiant tremble ; the.
shivering of it seemed to put a sort of pulsing
Into the whole of the foreshore, as though the
steamy heat of the atmosphere caused the land
to writhe upon the sight. It was a low island,
a Cay, as I might gather, of the true Bahama
type, with a green hummock or two amidships
of it ; here and there a volcanic-like protuberance
of land, with verdant slopes refreshing to
the eye to rest upon, and a kind of swarming
of trees in places, their tops above the sky-line
of the shore, and their branches defining a
fibrine conformation as delicate as coral against
the liquid azure past them.

The sailors leaned over the side of the brief
looking at this island. Mole stood gazing at It
close to the companion, with his arms folded,
manifestly waiting for me to appear. I was a
minute however in the hatch before he was
sensible of my presence.

That's not Cuba, sir," he exclaimed,
instantly levelling his finger at the island.

At the sound of his voice the fellows who
were hanging over the rail looked round,

and two or three of them dismounted and
drew near ; but merely, as I believed, the
better to hear what I had to say, for there
was nothing threatening in their manner or
faces.

No," said I, stepping out of the hatch
to command a clearer view of the horizon,
'' that island is assuredly not Cuba, as you
say, Mr. Mole. 'Tis a Cay, with a name of its
own, I don't doubt. Our drift must have
been to the north of west, with a set of current
that has thrown me all abroad in my
reckonings. I'll step below for the chart."

'' Never mind about the chart," he exclaimed,
vjith a note in his voice that brought
me to a dead stand in a second ; "that island's
known to us."

The half-blood Charles came from the rail
with his hands in his breeches-pockets. "/
know it," he exclaimed, with a peculiar
expression in the roll of his sloe-like eyes
upon me ; " it'll do as well as Cuba — maybe
better," he added, speaking the words through
his nose with a Yankee drawl.

'' What is the island ?" I asked.

It'll be in the West India boiling, anyhow,"
answered the half-blood ; '' it's all right.
No civilization on it ; no blasted lawyers to
choke a man for doing his messmates a good
turn." He whistled softly, with a half-smile
at Mole, then swung on his heel and returned
to the rail.

Mole eyed me steadfastly, like a man considering
; the others methought with something
of pity mingled with rough curiosity
in the air with which they surveyed me.
A miserable feeling of uneasiness possessed
my mind. Mole's manner was authoritative,
and even insolent, a behaviour he had no need
to open his mouth to utter. But the others
showed a sort of Indifference ; the men at the
rail just looked at me, then resumed their
posture of surveying the island ; the two or
three who had drawn near eyed me, but, as
I have said, with curiosity only, for I could
witness no malevolence In their regard. I
confess I would have been less scared had the
whole of them closed around me on my arrival
in a hubbub of savage cries and threats,
charging me with having deceived them, and

VOL. II. N

the like. This at least would have been
consistent with the apprehensions which had
almost worn me out during the past week ; but
the careless, half-composed demeanour they
now opposed to me was absolutely terrifying,
and I vow 'twas almost a relief to turn from
those inquisitive faces, as of those of a crowd
in a street staring at some one injured, or ina
fit, to the more defined expression on Mole's
face, showing sullenly some dark resolution
at heart.

I put my hand to my brow and swept the
sea-line. It ran without a break to the
resplendent shaft of sunlight in its bosom.

Is this the only island in sight ? " I asked.

'* Yes," said Mole curtly.

'' Ay, but I mean," I exclaimed, *' is there
no more land visible from the masthead ? "

There's a film away to the westwards insight
from the cross-trees, that's all," he
answered grimly, no longer softening his
words with the " sirs " he was used to give
me. '* We should have been ashore had it
held thick. The course ye gave me was dead
on end for it."

I glanced at the topsail hollowing backwards
to the mast, then at the island, then at
him, and said suddenly, '' What do you mean
to do ? "

He fetched a deep breath, and said, " After
you and the lady have breakfasted, we'll put
ye ashore"'

On hearing this, the men who were standing
near us at the bulwarks approached, and
looked on and listened ; yet they exhibited
little more than curiosity in their manner.

Do I understand," said I, controlling my
voice, " that it is your intention to put the
lady and me ashore upon that little island, and
leave its there ? "

'' Yes," he answered, trying to look me full
in the face ; but his eyes fell to my stare of
horror and astonishment.

"■ Men," I cried, rounding upon the others,
this is hard usage to give a man who has
served you as I have. Even though / should
have deserved this treatment, what has the
lady done to merit it ? Her sympathies were

with you all from the very hour "

For God Almighty's sake, don't argue,

N 2

Mr. Musgrave," cried Mole, stamping heavily
with his foot, and accompanying the gesture
by a nervous sweep of his arm. *' Our minds
are made up. Had yonder Island been Cuba,
it would have been the same ; we'd have set
ye both ashore. You and the lady are
witnesses we're bound to leave behind us, no
matter where. It vnist be done ! "

He stamped again. I looked at the halt-blood,
and was about to address him, but he
Immediately returned to the rail, and there
hung whistling, keeping time by drumming
with his fingers.

Mr. Mole," said J, "it Is In your power to
give us a better chance for our lives than
yonder Island will provide. Why do you fear
us as witnesses ? I am willing to take any
oath you and the others may require to keep
the events of this voyage secret. Miss Grant
will do the same. Put us In the way of
reaching some inhabited coast — send us adrift,
if you will, within a day's reach of a town,
I do not care where it may be — but to land
and leave us these ! " I pointed to the Island.

He turned his back upon me, and walked

without reply a few steps forward, then turning
suddenly and extending his arm, with his
great hand clenched, cried out, " Mr. Musgrave,
I have begged ye not to argue. It'll do no
good. When a man's in hell he's got damnation
enough." He swept his hair off his brow
and continued, " Your breakfast '11 be served
afore long, and we shall then want you to be
ready. She'll carry ye," nodding towards the
quarter-boat; 'the water's smooth and you
can take what you will that belongs to you.
Best bear a hand to get your traps together,
for we've got no notion ourselves of hanging
hove-to here." He turned his back ao^ain
upon me, thrust in among four or five men
who were at the bulwarks, and stood with them
looking at the island.

Do they mean to set us ashore, Mr.
JMusgrave ? "

Miss Grant was at my side, glancing from
the island to around her, with a face in which
one saw the first flushing of consternation
yielding to a cooler mood even as one watched
it.

'' Yes," I answered.

'' What island is that ? " she exclaimed.

I do not know," I replied.

Can you not find out ? "

It is doubtless one of the Bahama group,
but which it is impossible to say, seeing how
wildly wrong I have proved in my reckonings.
It is seemingly known to the half-blood, but
there is nothing to be got from him or from the
others, the merciless villains ! "

Is it inhabited ? " she inquired.

"No. If it were I should welcome the act
of cruelty as a deliverance from an intolerable
situation."

She took me by the arm, and led me a little
distance aft out of earshot of the men. Mole
peered at us past the rounded back of another
fellow, with irritable impatience in his posture
ot doing so. She viewed the island for a
little while without speaking, apparently lost
in thought. Her breath came and went
tranquilly. The fear that had for a moment
or two shone in her eyes being gone, I could
not discern the least symptom of alarm in her.
I stood silent, marvelling at her composure,
wondering indeed whether it did not owe much

to her inability to compass what the men's
intentions signified to us. Presently she said
quietly, '' Will not the chart in the cabin tellus
what this island is ? "

I will look when I go below," I replied ;
but added bitterly, " How should the name of
it concern us ? "

She interrupted me : '' No ; but if we can
discover its situation, the chart would show us
which is the nearest inhabited land, so that
we shall know in which direction to steer when
we leave that place." I was about to speak.
*' Oh, Mr. Musgrave," she exclaimed softly,
with the faintest tremor in her voice, though
her face flushed to the spirit of resolution in
her, " I would rather things should be as they
are — I would indeed ! Our life in this vessel
has grown unendurable. My nights are miserable.
I can scarcely rest for thought of the
plans those fellows there may be hatching.
We shall be together on that island ; the
nightmare of fancy that haunts me of being left
alone on this brig — of our being separated
through some deed of violence — will be ended.
The worst has come, so far as ^Aey are

concerned," she continued, with a shuddering
half-turn of her face towards the seamen, " and
there at least," directing her glance at the
island, " I shall be spared the hundred daily
and nightly dreads which terrify me here. It
is hard, it is hard ! " she muttered in an almost
musing way, " but it is less than I feared.
They never meant that you should be able to
bear witness against the half-blood, against
themselves. Some kind of end must have
come, Mr. Musgrave. It is miserable as it is ;
but time after time my terror has foreboded
something infinitely worse."

It was afterwards that I recognized the truth
of her words ; but just then I was so wild and
crazed by this blow, by the cold, calculating inhumanity
of the men, in whose demeanour I
had never witnessed the least hint of such
barbarous usage as they were now about to
give us, which throughout had been their intention
towards us, and which doubtless was
the reason of their demand that I should let
them know when wee were within a day's sail of
the Cuba coast — I say that at that time the conflict
of emotions was so violent in me, I could

get nothing out of the composure and thoughtful
words of the sweet and noble woman at
my side but a sort of dull wonder at her
tranquillity.

"Your breakfast's gone below, Mr. Mus-grave,"
shouted Mole; "me and my mates '11
be obliged by you and the lady bearing a hand.
Another half-hour's as much as we can allow
ye.

Let us go to the cabin," said Miss Grant ;
your heart will come to you again soon. I
declare I thank God for this thing as a
deliverance."

She led the way, and I followed. The cook
was lingering at the table, as though adjusting
it to his taste, but on our showing ourselves he
ran hastily up the steps, fearful perhaps that we
should address him. It was not a time to think
of eating. For my part, I believe a crumb of
biscuit would have sufficed to choke me. In
truth, the long hours of bitter anxiety I had
suffered had unnerved me ; but to what extent
I should not have known but for this sudden
testing of my courage. I saw Miss Grant look
as though she meant to force herself to partake

of the meal, to embolden me by a further
illustration of her coolness, but she turned
away after a minute, and said, " What is next
to be done ? "

"We must pack up our traps," said I ; '' weare
at liberty to carry our luggage ashore.
Ashore ! Good God ! "

I could scarcely utter the words. You talk
of going ashore when newly arrived off a town ;
or if off a coast, you go ashore to return again
to the ship ; but to think of going ashore to
this little island, to stop there with nothing insight
but a blue streak of haze, visible only from
the elevation of the cross-trees

"Shall we take all we haven't" asked Miss
Grant, as collectedly, I protest, as if this
Atlantic Ocean were the English Channel, and
there was a boat alongside ready to carry us to
Plymouth or Dover.

Yes," I answered, almost mechanically, for
this was a detail indeed I found it hard to bend
my mind down to ; " throw what you have into
your boxes and portmanteaux. I will wait for
you here."

In five minutes I had stowed my possessions

away, and then going to Breakwater's berth,
drew a chart of the West India Islands from
the bag, and returned with It to the cabin. I
overhung It eagerly, but to little purpose.
Here was a stretch of Islands starting from high
abreast of the Florida coast and trending away
down to Dominica, and which of them that
green and gleaming spot of land out to starboard
was, It was hopeless to conjecture. At a
later date I might have put my finger upon It
without much trouble, but Breakwater's charts
were exceedingly old, and this one of the West
Indies was complicated and disfigured with Ink-marks
and dim tracings like a school-boy's
lesson-book. However, there could be no
doubt that this Island fringed the thicker zone,
that It was some eastward sentinel Cay, such as
Rum, Cat, or Watling Island, and that civilization
therefore bore from It as the sun set ; so
that our course, should we make shift to get
away, must He to the west and south.

Whilst I pored upon the chart, the companion
was darkened by the figure of a man,
and the imperious voice of Mole rang down,
'' Are ye ready, Mr. Musgrave ? "

I am waiting for the lady," I replied.

I took the chart, and went to the foot of the
companion-steps with it. '' Mr Mole," I said,
I have served you as honestly as it was
possible to me in the navigation of this brig.
It is surely not too much to ask you the name
of the island over the side, that I may fix its
position here," pointing to the chart, '' so as to
be able to tell in what quarter of this bare sea
the inhabited lands lie ? "

The name's of no consequence, nor its
bearings either," he responded gruffly ; "ten to
one if it's wrote down on a chart that's brought
us up with a round turn leagues and leagues clear
of the coast we aimed at. Bear a hand, if you
please, sir ; the men are growing impatient."

I flung the chart down on the deck. It was
a merciful thing I had not armed myself, for I
was so mad just then it was as likely as not that
I should have drawn upon the ruffian, and paid
the penalty by being tossed over the side with
a lump of holystone seized to my feet. Miss
Grant came out of the cabin.

"I am ready," she exclaimed; 'rare we
expected to carry our luggage on deck ? "

I called to Mole, who still stood at the head
of the companion-ladder, " You can send a
couple of men for the boxes," and so saying, I
conducted Miss Grant through the hatch.

They had lowered the boat and brought
her alongside under the gangway, that was
unshipped with steps over it. A few of
the men eyed us askant as though ashamed,
yet too curious not to steal a glance. The
half-blood was one of these. I thought to
myself — " You beauty ! Old Breakwater after
all had the true gauging of your nature. If
ever the gallows were put to a profitable
use, it will be when pott dangle from it,
bleaching to the wind ! " I stood with
folded arms, my eyes rooted to the deck.
Miss Grant by my side, neither of us
speaking. Somehow the sense of bitter
humiliation Induced by the thought of the
sort of men they were who were using us
thus, weakened the deep emotion of dismay
with which I contemplated our abandonment
upon that Island. In a few minutes a couple
of fellows arrived, bearing our luggage.
There were four or 'vc^^^ boxes and portmanteaux,

along with a carpet-bag or two,
some bundles of rugs, a hat-box, and the
like ; and I cannot express the horrible
accentuation these prosaic things gave to
our condition when one looked from them
to over the rail at the line of white surf
melting into the sparkling sand, with the
greenery beyond, without a hint even of
savage human structure to relieve the spirit
of wildness which was swept into the heart
of the lonely place out of the infinite ocean
distance by the blue line of the horizon
going past it on either hand. The two men
who had brought the luggage dropped over
the side into the boat ; the boxes and portmanteaux
were handed over.

Now, sir," said Mole.

I was about to speak. Miss Grant
clasped my hand. " Hush ! " she whispered,
'' come ! "

Without a word I got over the side and
helped her to descend. Suddenly some one
cried out, " They're going ashore without
anything to eat or drink."

'' 'Vast with that boat, Jim ! " shouted Mole.

There was a pause of a few minutes, then
what was left of our private stores was
passed over, along with a couple of beakers
of fresh water and a jar of spirits belonging
to the brig. 'shove off!" sung out Mole,
and bear a hand back, lads."

The two fellows threw their oars over,
and the little boat, deep with the weight of
the provisions, the luggage, and the four
people In her, glided shorewards over the
blue rippling surface. It happened strangely
enough that the two men were of the three
(the half-blood being the third) who had
pulled us aboard the Iron Crown from Deal.
They were both Englishmen, with a ginger-coloured
fork of beard, a wrinkled skin, dingy
with weather, and covered with knobs like
the foot of a sea-boot. They never offered
to speak to us, and strenuously avoided
meeting our eyes, watching indeed the
sheering of their blades through the clear
under the sapphire edge, as though Indeed
they were a couple of draper's assistants out
for an hour's row. I held Miss Grant's hand,
scarce conscious of what I was doing, though

I afterwards remembered that she cherished
my hold of it, as though, with a woman's
sympathy, she believed I drew courage from
the pressure of her fingers, and for that
reason let me have my way. Had we been
going ashore to some bright town full of life
and conveniences, whence in a day or two
we should be able to start for Rio, she could
not have shown herself more perfectly tranquil
and easy. Once she looked behind her at
the receding form of the brig, and breathed
deep a moment, but the respiration was nota
sigh. For my part I never turned my
head ; my eyes were fixed upon the island
we were approaching, but with a feeling of
numbness in my mind which rendered curiosity
so languid that I gazed as if it were some
passing scene in which I had no other
concern than that of a spectator.

The men made for the nearest of the
creeks, where the tender lift of the summer
sea ran formless to the shadows cast by
the leaning trees on either side ; the boat's
forefoot struck the almost snow-white sand,
which went winding up like a silver trail

through the herbage, as you notice it on
the Mozambique or Natal seaboard, and the
sailor in the bows jumped out. The spit
of shore that formed the right-hand shoulder
of this creek, looking seawards, shelved so
flatly to the wash of the surf, that you saw
the ocean spreading beyond it to the open
sky, with the brig, her topsail still aback,
barely leaning from the wind, her canvas
and hull dark against the flashing water
and the airy splendour beyond her. I threw
a look at her now, and thought I could
distinguish the tall figure of Mole, watching
us through a glass which he steadied against
a backstay. The seamen who remained in
the boat handed out our luo-aaore and
provisions, parcel by parcel, to the other,
who dragged or carried them a few yards
clear of the water's edge. On this freight
being discharged, I went into the bow and
stepped ashore, Miss Grant springing easily
from the gunwale with her hand upon my
outstretched arm. My inward rage and
despair raised so great an aversion in me
to the two sailors, that the mere being
VOL. 11. o

addressed by them would have been intolerable,
and I was brisk in quitting the boat and in
assisting Miss Grant, that they might have
no excuse to order us ahsore. But I had no
sooner felt the ground under my feet than
the conviction seized me that we were to be
left without a boat ! I had not thought of
this. My consternation, ever since Mole had
apprised me of the intentions of the crew,
had been so great that such considerations as
had entered my mind were, as I may say,
instinctive only ; by which I mean, that
when a thought occurred to me it was accompanied
by a sort of dull notion of its being
true. I had — I know not why — reckoned in
this mechanical, instinctive way upon our
being furnished with a boat ; had looked at
the chart with that fancy in my mind, and
concluded that when we left the island we
must steer to the west and to the south ; the
unconsidered idea in me being that we should
be provided with a boat. But now I understood
that these men, to return to the brig,
must go away with the boat, and that the
girl and I where to be marooned to the very



height of the meaning of the wild old
buccaneering word !

One fellow sat ready to back water ; the
other, standing in the bows, was in the act of
poling the little craft off to get her head seawards.
I sprang in a bound to the very lip of
the shaking water.

*' My God, men ! " I cried, articulating with
difficulty, so tremulously was my heart beating,
so choking was the sense of constriction in my
throat, "you do not mean to leave us here
without any means of escaping ? Lads, as
sailors and Englishmen, show some pity. Weare
without a refuge ! " I cried almost hysterically,
pointing inland ; *' without tools, without
skill to contrive a fabric to escape from this
horrible solitude. Men, as you are English
sailors "

Shove her off. Bill," growled the fellow
in the stern. 'away with us! There's no
use talking, and notion can come of listening."


The boat's head sped round to the thrust of
the oar ; the two blades dipped — sparkled —
dipped again ; In a few moments she was clear

o 2

of the creek, with the two rowers bending to
their toil as though they were puling for a
wager.

I walked slowly to where Miss Grant was
standing. I think for a little while I must have
been off my head, as the common saying goes,
for I recollect shaking my fist at the boat and
the brig beyond, and heaping fifty curses upon
the crew ; until exhaustion, combined with the
sweltering heat of the sun striking off the white
dusty dazzle upon which we stood, came to my
rescue, and most mercifully silenced me. Miss
Grant never spoke, never offered to interrupt
or check me. She allowed me to talk myself
out, and then taking hold of the sleeve of my
coat, quietly drew me to one of the trunks that
stood under the shadow of a tree, upon which
by a gentle movement of her hand she induced
me to sit, and then extracting a little silver-mounted
bottle of refreshing scent from her
pocket, she damped her handkerchief with it,
and held it to my forehead.

I believe, had there been a tear in my composition
my eyes would have distilled it at that
moment.

I broke from my spell of womanly weakness
with a very passion of resolution.

I will not ask you to forgive this failure in
me," I cried, " heartily ashamed of myself as I
am. A little patience, and I shall hope to
prove myself worthy of so noble, so courageous
a companion as you. I should not have suspected
so much weakness in me. I cannot
believe it a part of my nature. I have been
unduly, most heavily tried. But so have you ! "
I exclaimed, finding more strength coming tome
out of the clear serene beauty of her eyes
than any cordial could have inspired. " Oh, we
will make it well for both of us yet."

I sprang to my feet with a shake of my body
that was like flinging away the whole miserable
girlishness in me to the winds.

"Nay," she exclaimed, "keep your seat. I
will sit by your side. We are not separated
yet, Mr. Musgrave. I swear," she cried, lifting
her eyes to heaven, " I would rather that this
should have happened than that we should
have had to endure another week of the horrible
life we were leading in that cruel ship. We are
not separated ; but who knows that another

week might not have found us so — might not
have found me alone ? " She shuddered almost
convulsively, then instantly rallying with an
effort of will that was a miracle in its way for
the energy of it, she added, in a changed,
softened voice full of sympathetic sweetness
and the melody of her tones, '' How refreshing
is the shadow of these trees ! how soothing this
stillness ! We shall be able presently to think
what is next and best to be done. Let us
meanwhile wait and see what they intend to do,"
pointing to the brig.

WE VIEW THE I S L A N D.

The boat, creeping along the water with a
spark of Hght to the rise of the oars on either
hand of her flashing out as regularly as a revolving
lantern, regained the brig, and in a few
moments the little fabric mounted jestingly to
the davits ; then round swung the topsail-yard,
the royal mounted slowly to a taut leech, staysails
were run aloft, and as the brig gathered
way she fell off a point or two with her head to
the east of south, the sea opening beyond her to
the clear horizon, that just past the vessel's
stern ran with a sort of seething of its blue into
the hot and tingling glory that came in a
blinding shiver from the edge of the ocean
there to the very feathering of the surf upon
the southward-facings beach of the island.

^lAROONED. CHAP.

We watched the vessel receding from us In
silence ; fathom by fathom she crept seawards,
with her canvas trembling amid the swimming
sulkiness of the atmosphere, and a short
polished tape as of shot satin dragging in tow
of her rudder.

Distance makes her beautiful," exclaimed
Miss Grant, "but she has proved a most ugly
ship to us."

What do they mean to do with her, I
wonder ? " said I, watching the flickering of her
high sails as she drew along a slope of the
shore whose shoulder would in a moment or
two conceal her.

*' What do you suppose ?" she asked.

"As they have two good boats," said I, " they
will probably scuttle the vessel when within
convenient reach of some habitable place. It Is
clear that they know their whereabouts ; and as
Mole can use the log-line, the chart will give
him the rest of the Information he needs.
They'll arrive ashore, or be picked up as shipwrecked
mariners, earn a deal of pity, pocket
some dollars in addition to what they may
plunder from Breakwater's and the mate's

cabins, then scatter and never more be heard of.
There ! She has vanished ! " I cried, rising.

I turned to survey the island. It was partly
coarse, thick guinea grass, and partly soft,
glittering, dusty sand where we were, with a
group of trees winding to the place to which
the sailor had dragged our luggage out of a
line of palms marshalled for the space of a
couple of hundred steps along the shore of the
creek, with others opposite, both bending their
ostrich-like plumes to a combining of their
boughs that formed a little cool green tunnel
under which the bright shoaling water ran
darkling, though it sparkled out green as
emerald in the opening beyond, with a rounding
at the extremity like the end of a thumb, where
the white sand came down to it. The land
went in a slight rise to a grove of trees that
was almost a little forest in its way, with a
twilight amid the greenery, spiked by hazy
beams of sunshine striking down any opening
the light could shoot through. Here and there
a great red toadstool showed like a small scarlet
shield in the herbage. There was a clump of
cocoa-nut trees standing isolated to the left of

the grove. The white and flowing-like streams
of quicksilver wound in paths through the grass
in all directions, and made one wonder that the
tropical vegetation one saw could take root and
find nurture in such soil. The air, blowing
softly from the south-west, was tremulous with
the humming of many kinds of insects, and
sweet with indefinable perfumes as of convolvuli
and the passion-flower — a commingling
of nameless aroma. I watched a frigate-bird
come out from the mere black spot he made
seawards, and glance like an arrow without
stir of its wide and graceful pinions to some
haunt of its own past the little inland forest.
In places close beside us the long grass stirred,
as though there were human fingers beneath, to
the movement of a lizard perhaps green as a
bottle, with eyes like rubies, and a flickering
fork of tongue as if it was breathing fire ; or
maybe some dingy thing that might have been
a land-crab could be made out creeping for a
space through the fibres of the grass, and then
falling motionless as though, mole-like, it had
sunk deep out of sight.

I hope there is nothing poisonous in the

way of snakes hereabouts," said I, pulling out
a stout stick from one of the bundles that lay
strapped near a portmanteau, and very warily
I strode into the thick of the herbage, beating
right and left, keeping a bright look-out, and
listening intently. I started nothing but a
lizard or two, and one of those half-lobsters
called soldiers, and a vast spider with a body as
big as a crown-piece, magnificently marked like
the leopard, with the hues so brilliant and shining
that it was as good as beholding some
marvellously-wrought mechanism glorious with
jewels to watch the scamper of the thing with
its long legs over the heads of the spears of
grass that bent to its weight. I returned, and
opening my portmanteau, pulled out the
pistols which lay there loaded, and thrust them
into my pockets.

I'll go and take a view of the scene," said
I ; '' there may be land in sight away west
from the tallest of those hummocks. This
island must form one of the Bahama group
certainly, and if so, others cannot be very
remote, though hidden from this elevation.
Will you remain here until I return .^ "

No, I will accompany you," she answered ;
there's nothing to be afraid of, yet I do not
like the idea of being alone." She sent a
swift glance round her with a faint smile
that was like asking forgiveness for this little
show of weakness.

The length of her dress made mee feel a
trifle uneasy. It was impossible to know
what small murderous fangs lay hidden among
the long coarse grass that showed yellow
and bald in places to the roasting eye of the
sun. The folds of her gown formed such
a flowing drapery that the skirts of it trailed
a foot or two in her wake — a regular net
for the ensnaring of anything venomous or
distracting. Let her courage be what it would,
methought if she should hook up such a spider
as the chap I had just put to flight, it might
go hard with us both. It was no time for
ceremony. It is simply impossible for a
man to be marooned with a girl without the
vessel that makes castaways of them carrying
off a mass of the superfluous decorums
which on shipboard kept them at arm's
length.

*' Miss Grant," said I, "excuse me — your
dress is too long."

She gathered the folds of it in her hand,
and said simply, " Yes, much too long ; "
then going to one of her trunks she produced
after some fumbling — a pincushion ! — (to think,
now, of a pincushion on an uninhabited
island !) — and handing it to me, bade me
help to pin her dress up for her. It was
a task in its way to reconcile one almost to
being marooned — for the moment, at least.
I don't think I had known how perilously
emotional this woman had made me at heart
in all thoughts that had reference to her,
until I put my hand to the sweet and careless
intimacy of this pinning job. It was a sort
of haunting of her closest presence whilst
it lasted, like bending the face to a flower
that one has long been able to admire with
the eye only. She watched me with a half-smile
as I stooped round her, whilst I trimmed
her canvas suitably to the best of my judgment
for our adventure ; with an air of unaffected
indifference touched but very subtly
with the most delicate imaginable spirit of

coquetry. It was more like a flirting passage,
indeed, in some merry picnicing jaunt — as
though we two had strolled from the rest of
the people, and I was clumsily trying to make
good the dilapidation following an airy frolic
than a detail of one of the grimmest of all
ocean incidents. She again explored the box
she had recently rummaged, and took from
it the silver-mounted pistol which she had
shown to me on board the brig, and after
deliberating a minute or two thrust the barrel
into the bosom of her dress.

'' I will carry it for you'' said I, with a
small recoil from the recklessness with which
she had sliced the loaded weapon aslant her
beautiful figure. " Should you stumble — let
mee hold it for you."

She withdrew It, saying, " I must be armed
as well as you. I shall know how to carry it."
With that she opened another trunk, and after
a brief hunt drew forth a dainty leathern belt
of South American make and fashion. Into
which, after clasping It loosely round her, she
stuck the pistol, where It lay safe enough,
and ready to her hand besides ; and then

equipping ourselves with a cotton umbrella
apiece, we started for the green hummock that
rose at about half a mile inland, taking a
bit of a circuit to the left so as to go clear
of the trees, into whose cathedral-like dimness
it was difficult to peer without uncomfortable
fancies of savage things — imaginations of bright
hungry eyes glistening between some mighty
spikes of aloes ; the small head of a serpent
half-way up a tree, with fold swelling upon
fold of spotted, bloated skin, rising corkscrew-fashion
to the green intricacies atop — all helped,
as such notions would be, by the novel tropical
smell of flower and gum in the wind, and the
innumerable murmur of flies and insects stirring
across the sight on wings of translucent
pearl, and the melancholy, unmusical pipings of
birds, one wailing to another and waiting for
the answer, as it seemed.

We stepped along very cautiously, Miss
Grant looking down for the most part, and
I round about. The greenery soothed the eye,
but there was a savageness put into everything
you saw by the loneliness of the place that
weighed perilously upon the spirits. For my

part, I felt as though the sand we trod had
never before received the impress of a human
foot, and there were moments during that
walk when the helplessness and hopelessness of
our condition affected me so violently that I
could scarce draw a breath, and I had to calla
halt, feigning, with my hand to my brow, that
I had paused only to obtain a better view of
the island.

From the summit of the hummock we could
see all around us. The sea went in a brilliant
blue slope to the sky, the great dome of which,
brassy with the glory of the sun that was
but a little past the meridian, set you thinking
of some mighty, brightly-burnished copper-bell
charged with fiery splendour shutting
down over you, with this green spot of earth
parching in the midst of it to the roasting
metallic glare. A little leaning shaft of white,
with an ice-like gleam upon it, broke the
continuity of the southern seaboard. It was
the canvas of the brig. From her right
round to back again to her the clear horizon
ran without a flaw. If land were visible from
the cross-trees of the Iron Crown, it was

concealed from us here. The little forest
betwixt us and the creek hid the foreshore
of the island past it ; but one knew how it
would be there by how it was wherever else
the eye turned. The surf rimmed the white
sands with three or four lines of flashing
snow, which seemed to melt into the coral
beach like liquid light, and the seething of
it fell as delicately upon the ear as the
hissing of champagne in a glass poised to the
lips.

It is all clear sea, apparently," said I ; " the
blue seems to me to spread everywhere the same.
There is some chance for us in that, for in such
soundings there can be no cano-er to navigation,
and a vessel may heave close enough into view
to perceive our signals at any hour."

We should have some signals ready," said
Miss Grant.

Nothing to catch the eye like smoke," said
I ; '' I will build a big bonfire up here this afternoon,
ready to make a blaze when the time
comes."

'' The island is certainly uninhabited," she
said, exploring it with her dark eyes. "It is

VOL. II. p

hard to imagine that it has ever been discovered ;
but it is best as it is, Mr. Musgrave. Surely
the very worst shipwrecks are those in which
sailors and passengers have been thrown
amongst savages."

'' It is blistering hot up here," said I ; " let
us return to the cool of the trees. A moment
though ! You have a keen sight. Can you
distinguish anywhere upon this island the least
gleam of water ? "

She searched slowly and narrowly, as did I
for the matter of that. Again and again I was
deceived by some thin sinuous streak of sand
that had the very sheen of a limpid stream in
the dazzle of it, as it seemed to creep like some
little brook amid the herbage of the denser
growths ; but my eye could regularly follow it
to broader tracks which were unmistakably sand
to the sight ; and I was about to give up, when
Miss Grant, who had been looking steadfastly
in one direction for some minutes, said, '' That
must be a little waterfall yonder, Mr. Musgrave ;
look past the curve there, over the head of that
clump of bushes."

She pointed to the foot of the slope of another

hummock, lower and smaller than the one on
whose brow we stood, and in a breath I
caught the sparkle of a waterfall shivering
like splinters of bright steel against the
green edge of the rise, and amidst the
interlaced of the bush whose density a little
lower down hid it. If it were fresh water
it was of the first consequence in the world
to us, and without another word we started for
it. It proved as thirsty, bubbling, and murmuring
a brook as ever lipped glass-like to an
English river. Its source was some distance
away ; it flowed freshly in a channel of its own,
fretting to the spot at which we had arrived,
when it sulked again in a wide pool, passing
on afresh in a mimic torrent, narrowing for a
space till Its volume made a foam of it, then
running clear under the sky for twenty fathoms,
after which it pierced the herbage and vanished
amidst the trees. I scooped up some with my
hand and tasted it. New milk was never
sweeter. I had a brandy-flask in my pocket,
and with the help of the silver cup attached toit
we drank our fill of this delicious water. No
wine was ever so well tasted ; it was ice-cold too,

p 2

and of so diamond-like a clearness, that but for
the whispers of it as it ran, and the hue of the
blue sky in it, it would have been as invisible as
water in a crystal vase. Short of the appearance
of a ship promising deliverance to us,
nothing, I am persuaded, could have so helped
my spirits as the discovery of this fresh water.
There was thirst in the dry and blinding sparkling
of the sand ; there was thirst in the aspect
of the tracks of rusty yellow herbage which
dashed the vegetation with their sickly tint
like gangrenes spreading even to the gaze of the
eye ; there was thirst In the hot air that everywhere
trembled like the atmosphere over a flame,
until in places the horizon waved as though a
high swell were running out there, and the
slender trunks of the cocoa-nut trees wound upon
the slofht with the movement of an archimedes
screw slowly revolving. Here then were inspirations
to make the discovery of this brook
of running waters a positive rapture in its way.
Suppose it had no existence, I thought ; what
should we have done ? The beakers the men
had dispatched us with held but a few
gallons. Rain-water might have been found

perhaps by digging in the sand, but I had my
doubts of that when I came to look at the
dust of the milk-white foreshore. The mere
fancy of our condition without this brook — the
central roasting Eye sending an atmosphere of
brass flowing to the furthest confines — the thirsty,
salt noise of the surf — (you could hear the saltness
of it in the seethe of each little recoiling
breaker) — was almost enough to make one keep
one's hot lips steeped in the crystal coolness
and sweetness of the prattling stream.

But my heart fell again as we walked slowly
towards the spot where our luggage' was.
Indeed, the mere sio^ht of these details of civilization
— portmanteaux, trunks of the latest
fashion, rugs, camp-stools, walking-sticks, the
twenty odds and ends which had gone to our
equipment — made such a contrast of the inhospitable
desolation of the spot of land on
which we were imprisoned, that the stoutest
spirit must have yielded, I think, to a feeling
of hopelessness. How were we to obtain a
shelter for the night ? When our slender store
of provisions gave out, where were we to look
for a further stock .^ Again, unless we were

taken off by some passing ship, what was our
chance of escape ? There was no lack of wood
on the island, and with tools I might have
contrived to put together some sort of log-fabric
on which, under Heaven, we might have made
shift to blow away to within reach of succour,
whether of land or of ship ; but without chopper
or saw yonder grove was of no more use to us
than a handful of the white sand by the creek
there. However, it was a little soon for
lamentation, though on such an occasion as
this a man's groans would be deepest when his
experiences were freshest.

It is about time we broke our fast," said I ;
'' perhaps we should feel faint had we nothing to
think about but our appetites. The men were
merciful to send our luggage ashore with us.
Those camp-stools of yours are worth a million."

I opened one of the cases containing our provisions,
and prepared a meal of preserved meat
and biscuit, along with the remainder of a bottle
of Madeira. The camp-stools made us seats,
and our table was the lid of a trunk. Of all the
passages of this particular nautical experience
of my life, our first meal on this little nameless

island recurs to me the most vividly. I think I
hear now the hum of the sultry sea-breeze amid
the boughs overhead, rendered refreshing to
the ear by the metallic-like rustling of leaves,
yet always blowing vibratory with the innumerable
buzzing of flies and insects. I see again
the green Heard, scarcely distinguishable from
the foliage amongst which he lurked, viewing
us with brilliant eyes from some limb on high.
Occasionally there would come a harsh, short
scream from a paroquet, and a flash of lustrous
plumage from one verdant shadow to another,
like a fragment of rainbow borne along by the
wind, accompanied by the sharp rushing skirr
of beating pinions. The sunshine was alive
with the glancing forms of coloured things —
now a great dragon-fly, a golden shaft propelled
by wings of gossamer — now a butterfly of
glorious hue — now some tiny red-breasted bird,
a sort of woodpecker, maybe, for I noticed that
a drumming as of bills would spring up out of
the quarter in which the streak of radiant
feathers had vanished. Had all been well with
us, good beds to look forward to at night, with
even such necessaries to support us as a back-wood

settlement might supply, why, this little
Island, with my beautiful and courageous companion
to talk to and have by my side would
have been something — say even for a fortnight
— to have entered Into the realities of life
as a sort of paradisiacal dream, a fancy for
whose brief fulfilment under happy conditions
I would barter a dozen years of the delights of
the gayest and most showy cities of Europe.
But 'twas sheer nightmare and nothing more,
spite of the waving verdure of the savanna, of
the glitter of the tropic bird, of flowers lovely as
the constellations of the midnight of the Antilles,
of the rain-like pattering of the leaves of the
palm-tree, of odours as of the lime and the
citron, when one sent one's gaze seawards, and
felt the whole solitude of the mighty deep
melting through and through Into one In a kind
of swoon, as it seemed, of the very soul.

However, we ate and drank, and were the
better for it. I lighted a cheroot, and fell a-
thinking with my eyes on Miss Grant. She
was equally thoughtful, with a far-away expression
in her face.

There are nervous folks," said I, " who

would not accept the gift of looking ahead even
for a fortnight if they could make their fortunes
through it. Throw me back a couple of months
ago into Piccadilly, with leave to peer far enough
to divine old Breakwater's nature, and to guess
at the issues it must shape, and we should not
be here."

It is all my fault," said she.

"Mine!" I exclaimed. "I should have
insisted on being put ashore with you in the
English Channel."

I mean it is my fault that you ever made
the voyage," said she.

You would not wish to be alone though ? "
said I, smiling.

She shook her head with an unaffected
shudder.

What conclusions will Alexander arrive at,"
said I, "when day after day goes by, and no
Iron Crown arrives at Rio ?"

I don't like to think of it," she answered ;
but he will have to be patient. He must wait
as / must wait."

•' Pity it is not the other way about," said I.
He ought to be here, and you safe at Rio,"

She looked at me quickly, with a half-formed
fancy, as it seemed, hovering on her lips, parted
as if to speak, faintly coloured, and plucking a
blade of the coarse grass at her side, appeared
to study the texture of it.

'' Alexander will conclude that the brig has
gone down with all hands," I continued. " The
men are sure to scuttle her, and as they know if
rescued they will have to account for us and
the two men they have made away with — Broad-water
and Bothwell I mean — it is odds if they
don't invent the name of the ship they profess to
have belonged to, so that the truth will never
reach my cousin until we carry the news ourselves
to him."

Poor boy ! his anxiety will be cruel. But
perhaps we shall be with him sooner than
we expect."

I hope so, indeed, for your sake," said I,
with a lift of my brows to the tormenting
puzzlement of how it was to be done. '' But
sufficient unto the day, Miss Grant. Here are
we marooned, and what's next to do ? that's the
question. No chance of our being taken off
this afternoon, nor of our escaping in any other

way. The night then is before us, and we
must provide for it. I have no means of erecting
any sort of shelter, and the island offers
nothing. For my part, one of those rugs and a
stretch of that dry sand will make me as good
a couch as I need, spite of the land-crab and
whatever else crawls hereabouts at night. But
the notion of your lying on the cold ground is
intolerable to me' said I, turning my eyes
about in vain search of any hint for a high
and dry bed for her in tree or slope.

'■' I have a net-hammock in one of those
boxes," she exclaimed, '' unhappily only one. If
you "

'' I / Lord love you, Miss Grant! Why, if
it were not for the lizards aloft, I'd seize myself
to a bough, make a bed of one of those leafy
forks up there, as Robinson Crusoe did. But
there may be monkeys in this island for aught I
know, and on the whole I fancy a sand-mattress
promises me a quieter couch than a tree. If you
can find the hammock, we will turn to and rig it
up in as snug a place as we can light on."

She immediately explored one of her boxes,
and presently found the hammock. It was

formed of net, but very strong, though so portable
that one could have stowed it away in one's
hat, with ship-shape clews and eyes and lengths
of laniard ready spliced for lashings. This, it
seems, like her pistol, her belt, and divers other
matters, had been one of her Rio possessions.
It was an odd thing to carry home from South
America to the English climate ; but it was an
old home relic, she told me, in which she had
passed many a long slumbrous hour under the
scented and myriad-voiced shade of the cotton-trees,
of the gleaming leaves of the star-apple,
and the slender branches bending to the weight
of the golden shaddock. Besides, she knew little
of Great Britain, and might have believed that
the sun was as constant to the garden plains and
smoking cities of the greatest maritime nation
on the face of the earth, as it was to the country
in which she had been bred. But a spell of the
Edge ware Road would suffice to correct even
odder fancies than that.

I swung the hammock between two trees
which exactly fitted the length of it. They
stood somewhat forward from the group where
our boxes were, with a tract of white sand

hard by, which I had resolved should furnish
me with a bed that night ; so that she would
swing close over me, and be as free likewise as
one could possibly contrive it, from all risks of
visits during the dark hours from the lizards
and tree-toads in which I reckoned this island
abounded. I formed a mattress and pillow for
her of shawls and rugs, and learning that she
had some mosquito-curtains in her boxes, I
borrowed a roll of white tape from her, wanting
a better kind of line, and made a ridge-rope
of it along her hammock, with a couple of
pieces of wood cut from the bough of a tree to
serve as stanchions, that the ends of the curtain
might float fair past the clews, and so protect
her at both ends.

Perhaps there are no mosquitoes," said she,
watching me as I worked.

I hope not," said I doubtfully ; " anyhow I
shall borrow one of your curtains, and roll
myself up in it when the time comes. Unless
my system has undergone a change since I was
at Bombay, a mosquito-bite with me signifies a
lump rather larger than a crow's egg, and as
red as Breakwater's nose."

We have plenty of them at Rio," said she,
but they never tease me. Though the species
may be different here," she added, with a
glance at the contrivance I had rigged up,
which made me fancy that, bad as our melancholy
and dreadful situation was, there would
be nothing in it to hinder her from objecting
to the defacement of her fair face by the singing
pests of these rich and sparkling parallels.

I now found that occupation of any kind was
helpful to my spirits, and thereupon pulling off
my coat and waistcoat, and baring my arms, I
went to work with a tolerably stout knife I
happened to have in my pocket — one of those
useful combinations of corkscrew, gimlet, finger-long
saw, and the like — to cut as much dried
stuff as I could make shift to deal with ; of which
I manufactured faggots by securing them with
ligatures of grass strong enough to knot. Miss
Grant insisted on helping me. She had
replaced the somewhat small-brimmed hat
she had come ashore in with a great yellow
sombrero-fashioned head-covering that sheltered
her like an umbrella, and I see her now bending
her graceful figure to the faggot at her feet,

her white hands, with a flashing rino^ or two
upon them, nimbly and swiftly knotting the
grass bindings, lifting her face occasionally to
address me, with her dark eyes the brighter,
her teeth the whiter, her complexion the fairer,
for the softness of the shadow which lay upon
her beauty. We manufactured a great number
of these faggots, and conveyed the whole of
them between us in several journeys to the
summit of the hummock, where we built them
up in a goodly pile, taking care to fence them
about, that they should not be blown away by
a sudden squall or rising of wind, and further
protecting the whole by a thick cover of live
branches, densely leaved, which would also
thicken the smoke whenever the time came for
us to set hire to the heap. The great heat
made this labour very arduous, but though its
completion left us both wearied, it was a thing
to be done, and we felt the easier in our minds
when it was finished. It was impossible to
know but that at any hour we might happen to
look seawards and spy a vessel slipping fleetly
past, too far off to witness any waving signal
of shawl or handkerchief, but well within view

of such a volume of smoke as our body of
faggots would make.

We paused a moment on the brow of the
little elevation, before returning from our last
excursion to the hummock, to take a long look
round. The sun was sinking in the cloudless
Western heavens ; he was a great shield of fast
reddening fire, and the placid purple ocean beneath
him seemed to rise with a rounding of
its polished bosom to the huge luminary, as
though he were some mighty magnet up there
drawing it. One could not look a moment,
without a weeping of the sight, into the blinding
ardency of the western atmosphere, so
charged was it with the ceaseless gushing of
the crimson glory ; it seemed to palpitate and
contract and dilate like a lake of liquid glowing
iron newly poured from the heart of a blast-furnace.
But the sea went from there into a
tender deepening of turquoise against the
orange reflection in which the eastern sky was
bathed ; the rippling of it was so exceedingly
delicate, that it looked more like the shimmering
of light upon it than the fine wrinkling of
the wind ; the thin edge of surf broke with a

tincture of lemon upon the sands, that now
shone golden to the evening radiance. The
air blew very gentle and warm. The tropic
picture was • deepened to every sense by the
strange uncommon sounds rising from the
island — queer chirping and snoring ; sharp,
short cries from the greenery, like women's
voices calling hoarsely ; brief melancholy
pipings making answer to like notes, sad, low,
and more distant. The sound of the surf
seethed through this curious concert, but
nothing moved, look where one would, if it
were not the flash of a bird of gorgeous
plumage, a stir of some near tall spears of"
grass, or the curled head of a palm slightly
swayed by the wind into a beckoning posture
or an airy salutation. There was a quality in
the light of the waning day that put a melancholy
into the spirit of the solitude of this
place far beyond the reach of moonlight or the
starry darkness of the night. Fresh as we
were from days and days of the loneliness and
immensity of the deep, yet there was something
in the boundless aspect of the ocean, as
we surveyed it from the height of that hum-vol.
II. Q

mock, which, speaking for myself, shocked and
scared one's instincts as though one gazed at
some preternatural revelation of sea. I saw
Miss Grant droop in her posture, so to speak,
to the sight of it ; her clasped fingers holding
her hands before her relaxed, her arms fell to
her side, her head sank as she slowly brought
her eyes from the flawless ocean to my face.
She breathed slow and deep, as one in whom
perception has grown to the weight of a
burthen upon the heart.

Come," said I, taking her gently by the
hand, "there is a morrow, and yet a morrow,
before us. The good God is over all besides."

We walked quietly, but in silence, back to
the spot where we meant to pass the night.

THE MIDNIGHT BELL.

The clear, fine, spangled dusk speedily followed
the setting of the sun. The night lay dark upon
the sea before we had finished the meal to which
we had sat down when the hot crimson of the
luminary was still flushing the heavens to the
zenith with a blood-red atmosphere, against
which the trees behind us on the west side of
the island showed out black and lovely with the
effect of the rich light between the boughs and
the leaves, as though some hand had studded
every interstice with a red-hot ember. The
discordant cry of the parrot ceased, the multitudinous
buzzing that had been going on all day
came to an end, the melancholy wailing whistling
that had been answering one another down
to sunset were hushed as if by magic as the last

Q 2

of the brief twilight glimmered off the sky. It
was now the cricket's opportunity, and from
every part of the Island there rose up a very
storm of bell-like chirruping, mingled with the
sultry horns of the sailing beetles, odd whistling
and strange groaning coming from heaven
knows where, along with the confused croaking
of reptiles and the wild snoring call of the tree-toad.
Here and there upon the darkness, in
small hovering constellations, appeared a swarm
of fire-flies. In places, these little galaxies of
yellow-greenish points of light seemed to combine
with the dust of the stars beyond them,
and the eye catching them on a sudden would
be startled for the moment by the fancy of
some astral dance up there in the dark blue
obscure, as though a fragment of the milky way
had parted from the main body and was making
a night on't !

The sea-breeze blew languidly, cool with dew,
and fragrant with borrowings from the moist
vegetation it breathed over as it floated down
to our part of the island from the south and
east. The wash of the light and lipping surf
right around was as soft as the voice of a child ;

the sea spread out black as ink from the ivory
of the beach, touched at wide intervals with the
gleam of phosphorus or the silver wire-like wake,
tremulously riding the ripples, dropped by some
particular bright star. The moon would be
rising anon, and we waited for her coming ; for
the dusk, clear as it was, rendered movement
uninviting and even menacing. In fact it was
impossible to tell what creeping thing might
squirm to the tread in the darkness that blackened
nearly everything but the sand. We had
not, it is true, observed the least hint of snakes
about throughout the day, but if any there were,
the night might tempt them forth to walk.
The puff-adder loves to stalk in gloom, and the
rattlesnake's delight is the forest shadow.
That we might not give anything poisonous
a chance, we planted our camp-stools in the
centre of the broad tract of sand that flowed
fan-shaped to the creek betwixt the herbage,
where even to the starlight it glanced out
clear as a ship's deck, so that anything
that stirred upon it we should instantly
perceive.

Happily for me I had a good store of cheroots

in my portmanteau. The fragrance of the
tobacco seemed to civilize the island.

Even with a companion by one's side," said
Miss Grant, speaking softly, "the loneliness,
now that the dark has come, of such an ocean
spot as this terribly oppresses the spirit. But to
be alone — without hope of escape, without the
means perhaps of prolonging life beyond a little
while — oh, Mr. Musgrave, there are some forms
of human suffering of which the world can never
know anything ! "

I should go mad if I were left alone in a
place like this, after a bit," said I ; " imagination
would prove too much for me. Even when
all's well I find myself ill-trimmed in that way.
But to be alone here, without a chance, as you
say, of escaping — I protest I would not give
myself long to witness shapes as wild as ever
the sailors of Columbus dreamt of, stalking out
of the blackness of that grove yonder ; to behold
grotesque forms sliding out of the gloom
of the sea into the gleam of the surf to have a
look at me ; to hear airy voices syllabling my
name — well, fancy does make horrid fools of us
certainly ! "

It might have been the chill of the dew in
the dark sea-breeze that blew with a little moan
past us just then that sent a chill through me,
but I must own to being possessed by a wild
fit of dejection at that moment also. It did not
linger ; it was like one of those giddiness which
come and go, but which whilst on you make you
grip anything for support with your eyes shut.
Doubtless it came to me out of the boundless
surface of liquid blackness broadening out to the
low stars. I could not see how we were to get
away from this island, and the briefest mental
look ahead shrunk up the very soul in one to
the prospect of days passing into weeks, weeks
into months, with God knows luJiat in the far
end for some newly-arrived people then to
stumble upon as a memorial of nameless human
suffering.

Presently the moon arose, throwing up a
delicate rosy haze first, then mounting into
it red as a rose, which changed into greenish
silver after a brief climb, with an icy sparkling
upon the sea-line just under her, as though
the edge of the ocean there were a long
single breaker arching over into foam.

'what is that?" suddenly exclaimed Miss
Grant, pointing to the sandy spit that formed
a shoulder of the creek.

In the gathering light of the moon it
might have passed for a circular mahogany
dining-table that had been stranded by the
tide, and that having felt its legs had started
on an excursion inland. I was exceedingly
puzzled, and as I could now see to walk, I
approached the black object full of curiosity
and wonder ; but it was not till I was within
ten yards of it that I made it out a vast
turtle, weighing, I dare say, four or five
hundred pounds, I knew very little of the
habits of these animals, but I had somewhere
read that the creatures are easily
frightened, and so returning to Miss Grant
I told her quietly what the thing was. '* It
will have come to lay Its eggs, I dare say,"
said I ; " I have often handled a turtle's egg,
but never tasted one. I believe they are
very good eating. Let the thing by all
means contribute to our stock of provisions.
Since there Is one there will be others, and
if I can manage to turn one of them over,

I will ; though how to get steaks and soups
out of her I'm sure I don't know, unless we
can rig up some sort of an oven ; but even
then what are wee to boil the meat in ? "

"We shall be very poor creatures indeed,
Mr. Musgrave," said she, '' if we cannot
overcome difficulties of that kind. The one
problem is how to get away from the island.
We cannot stay here, you know."

The black figure of the turtle crawling
steadfastly along the sand, like some gigantic
spider from which a mischievous boy has cutoff
all but a little bit of its legs, sliced behind
the tall grass and disappeared, but I marked
which way she went, for I meant to have
her eggs if she laid any. The moonshine
on the water was now glorious, and came
rippling in pure silver to the very wash of
the surf; the trees rose pale, and the foliage
trembled to the breeze with the sheeny glitter
of the South African silver-leaf. Our shadows
lay black as sketches in India ink upon the
coral sand. Oh ! there was wonder, there
was beauty, but there was terror too in the
marvellous gush of haze which swept smoke-like

from the bland planet eclipsing the stars
in her vicinity. Distance grew horribly infinite
to it, and the sense of isolation a physical
torment.

"If the ruffians had but spared us a boat ! "
I cried. "We could have provisioned and
watered her for days and days, and sailed in
her too without risk on yonder equinoctial
surface. There is nothing for It but to wait,
Miss Grant. This is a great sea, steep to
our foreshore, or I am much mistaken. The
island is bound to be in some kind of highway,
and tomorrow, pray God, may give us
the sight of a ship."

With this kind of talk we killed some time.
The light of the mounting moon was so
brilliantly clear that I could witness every
varying expression In my companion's face
as plainly as If a shining dawn had broken ;
only that the moonlight gave a spirituality to
her beauty which her charms were perhaps
the richer for not discovering by sunlight.
When the time arrived for me to press her
to seek rest, I found her reluctant. And
small wonder! It was not that the hammock

was uninviting. Indeed, nothing fitter could
have been devised for the languid, dewy
warmth of such a tropical night of pale gold-like
splendour as this, than the airy couch
that spanned the black pillars of the two
silent trees. One thought of what was up
above ! — some scaly detailed thing, creeping
down the dry bark with a clawing of its
armoured feet like the pattering of a land-crab
upon an uncarpeted floor, to awaken oneby
a cold pressure of its belly upon one's
brow — pah ! The tropics are a glorious region
to read about, to be sure ; but give me an
English summer evening dying out — with the
lowing of a cow or two, the chime of a distant
church-bell, a drowsy chirp stealing from the
shadow of some sweet-blossomed orchard —
into the delicious repose of night, unbroken
by a note louder than the dim cheep of the
grasshopper, or the faint midnight crow of an
uneasy cock. Why here, now, as we sat, if we
paused in our speech for a moment, the ear
carried even engrossing thought away to the
rickety chorusing of the million crickets ;
winged things as prickly as a cork stuck over

with needle-points would sail into one's cheek
with a hum that was like a little trumpet-blast
in its way, so near and sudden was the sound
of it ; the snore of the tree-toad too awakened
an echo as of an innumerable croaking of
frogs ; and if ever this sultry and unwholesome
concert sank a little, it was only, as it
seemed to me, to give one a chance of catching
more distinctly the thin, red-hot-wire-like singing
of a mosquito hard by the ear. The fireflies
were wonderfully plentiful. A little cloud
of them hovered for nearly ten minutes in
front of us, within arm's reach almost ; and
bright as the moonlit air was, they glittered
so sharp and clear, that I believe had the night
been dark they would have shed illumination
enough to enable us to have seen each other's
face by.

Finding Miss Grant reluctant to go to her
hammock, I proposed a little stroll along the
glittering beach, and for over an hour, I think,
did we measure to and fro some quarter of a
mile of the sparkling shore, pausing often to
watch the curl of the little breaker, arching
black against the moon an instant ere seething

into foam, or to direct a searching eye
seawards for any inky spot upon the tremulous
stream of brilliance, or any pallid shadow in
the deep blue obscure on either hand of the
showering moonlight, or to listen to some few
brief, flute-like notes breaking from the inshore
forest, or to mark a meteor of magnificence
hurling westwards comet-like, and leaving a
white, steam-coloured scar upon the sky long
after it had burst into spangles and vanished.

At last she consented to '' turn in." I dragged
a trunk to the hammock to enable her to step
to her swinging bed, and when her head was
pillowed I made her snug with a shawl, and
then enveloped her in the floating gauze of
the mosquito-net, through which I could see
her dark eyes watching me. The spreading
branches of the trees screened her from the
moon, but here and there a ray fell through,
and one white beam rested upon the hammock.
I doubt if any dream that ever sweetened man's
rest was more enchanting than the vision of
this girl's face under the moonlit, gauze-like
transparency. Though no vision, indeed, yet
it affected me as with the unreality of one.

I could see a smile in her eyes as I raised my
hat with a little bow, and wished her goodnight.
One must go to sea for such experiences
as this. Name me such a conjuncture ashore
as could produce it. When I stole a peep at
her again, the moonbeam had slipped off her,
and the hammock was in gloom.

'' I hope nothing will tease you on the sand,"
I heard her say.

I hope not," I answered, looking at the
branches overhead to make sure that the coast
was clear up there.

I had now to make my own bed. The
boxes were of unequal height, or I should have
stowed them together into a couch. I stretched
out a rug to lie upon, brought a small carpetbag
to the head of it to serve as a pillow, drew
a mosquito-curtain over me, and lay down,
pistols in pocket within ready grasp, and
covered myself with such another rug as I
rested on. The dry sand yielded with a sort
of spring in it, and I found it a very tolerable
mattress. But I lay extremely uneasy in my
mind however for some time, constantly
imagining that something was stirring on one

side or the other of me. But I was more
wearied than I was sensible of, and presently
felt a pleasing sense of drowsiness stealing over
me. There was something now almost soothing
to the ear in the myriad chirping of the
crickets, and in the subdued soft creaming of
the surf. Just over my face hovered a swarm
of fire-flies, and I watched them sleepily. The
night wind sighing through the trees filled the
air with a fountain-like murmuring of rustling
leaves.

I was nearly asleep when I started, instantly
broad awake, to a peculiar, melodious, but most
melancholy whistling of a bird amid the branches
of the tree-to whose trunk the head of Miss
Grant's hammock was attached. What sort of
bird it was I cannot say. Maybe it was one of
the species which induced Columbus to believe
that there were nightingales in these islands,
when he sat hearkening at sunset to the gush
of melodies which came floating out of the
foliage to mingle with the Salves and Aves
and the litanies of his crew. The few rich
flute-like notes were plaintive beyond expression.
Aroused as I was from my first

nodding, it took a little thinking to collect the
quarter whence the piping flowed, and what it
was that made it. Indeed, to open one's eyes
at all upon the bright moonlight, the white
sand, the froth of surf, the ocean washing
out black from the steel-like sparkling under
the luminary, was surprise enough after long
weeks of waking up to nothing but my coffee-coloured
cabin in the Iron Crown, specially
when the whole was blended into a sort of
mist-like dimness by the fold of mosquito-certain
through which I peered. Indeed, if
the sad musical pipings from the boughs overhead
had come instead from some creamy-bosomed
sea-nymph glimmering out white as
ivory waist high past the foam that was shaking
upon the sand, the sight must have occupied
some little time in filling me with astonishment,
so magic and unreal did the bird's awakening
of me make me find the scene ; so likely a
theatre did the island seem for the wizardry
of the deep, and so qualified was my mind
at the instant for the contemplation, without
wonder, of astonishments.

But the song was brief, and after a little my

mind came round to its old bearings, and being
now wide awake, after a glance at the hammock,
which I observed to hang starless in the gloom,
I fell to some practical, anxious considerations
of our condition ; and the current of thought
being set a-flowing ran into twenty different
channels. I recalled my first meeting with
Miss Grant, my instinctive hesitation in undertaking
to escort her, the bewilderment her
beauty had raised in me, and how. as I believed,
nothing but the tender unconscious
pleading of it could have triumphed over my
reluctance to embark on this adventure. Then
I mused upon the tragic and distracting incidents
of the voyage, and my lonely quarterdeck
walks with my lovely companion. I dared
not deny to my own heart that I was already
perilously fond of her. Indeed, had my reason
been half imbecile it must have guessed at a
growth of passion in me by a trick of meditating
and endeavouring to interpret the meaning of
her behaviour and looks as I could recollect
them after passages of conversation and prolonged
association. 'Twas a time for such a
reverie as this, believe me, with her fair and

VOL, II. R

Stately figure airily resting within hail of a
whisper from me, and the sweep of the silent
sea round about closing as If to combine us.
By Heaven ! I thought to myself, though I
know may duty, yet should a time ever come
v/hen I must hand her over to my cousin, it
will be a bitter parting for me. Fool that I
was to mix my heart up In a business In which
I had no concern ! If the forfeiture of her
companionship Is to be the condition of our
escape, will my growing emotion presently
leave me with disposition enough to lift so
much as a finger to procure our deliverance ?

Tut ! " thought I, with a waft of the
mosquito-net at a little dance of fire-flies
hovering over my knees, '' It Is about time I
went to sleep ! "

I had scarcely got my head down on the
carpet-bag afresh when I was indescribably
astonished by hearing ^/le chimes of a bell rung
swiftly. I listened breathlessly for an instant,
believing the notes to be an illusion of my
senses, but it was impossible to mistake. No
village church belfry on a Sunday morning
ever echoed a clearer summons to the faithful.

The ringing suggested the sort of agitation you
notice in the quick, eager pealing of a steamer's,
bell rung as a final warning to passengers to
step ashore. It continued without cessation.
I sat up, then clearing myself of the mosquito-net,
leapt to my feet. I saw Miss Grant
sitting erect in her hammock.

"Oh, Mr. jNIusgrave, what is that .^ " she
cried.

'' It will be some vessel," I exclaimed, 'close
aboard the island ; perhaps ashore."

No ; it comes from those trees yonder,"
pointing to the little forest.

She threw the net like a veil off her head,
sprang from the hammock to the box, and
thence to the ground. " Oh ! " she exclaimed,
seizing my arm, " what can it be .^ "

The bell was no longer ringing rapidly ; a
sexton might now be tolling it. The slow,
punctually-recurring chimes came along like a
knell ; they then ceased, and all was still. I
paused a little to make sure if possible of the
direction whence the sounds proceeded. On a
sudden the ringing started off afresh — such a
reckless, rushing, clattering of noise that my

R 2

MAROONED. chAp.

conviction was there was a madman at large
upon the island, and that this was his way of
killing the midnight hours ! The whole place
seemed distracted by the clamour. Queer
grunts rose out of the grass, hard snoring noises
out of the trees, with a universal groaning of
frogs far and near, the hoarse inquiring cries of
parrots, whilst you caught a shriller edge in the
shrill minstrelsy of the crickets. The violent
ringing of a bell in the dark hours of the night,
even when one is as secure as a safe lodging and
all the contrivances of civilization can make
one, is, to say the least, an alarming disturbance.
But to hear such a sound in this lonesome island,
apparently amongst the trees yonder where they
rose blackest to their topmost foliage against the
moon, when it seemed as sure as sure could be
that there was no living human being within
God knows what distance of us, was such a
trial to the nerves that I own to having hung in
the wind for a space, amazed almost to a condition
of semi-stupefaction.

The tumultuous harum-scarum rinorinor cameo

o

to an end, and was succeeded by a melancholy
tolling, as though there were a funeral somewhere

under way. Bidding Miss Grant stop
where she was a minute, I ran swiftly — I was
a very nimble runner — to the head of the creek,
whence in a few moments I had gained the
beach on the north side of the island, a part
that would have been hidden to us on the
hummock by the forest. The pale golden light
of the moon flooded heaven and ocean, and
objects could not have been more visible had
the effulgence been of the noontide. There
was no sign of a ship hereabouts. The deep
ranged with a bare breast steeping and soaking
to the indigo of the sky ; nothing stirred along
the platform of sand that went twisting out of
sight in a pearl-like haziness round the bend of
the island, veering westwards. All this time
the bell was tolling, and now I could not doubt
that it was being rung in some part of the island,
for as at the creek, so here, the chimes appeared
to float directly from the black shadow of the
central grove. I returned to Miss Grant, by
which time the sound of the bell had ceased.

It is no ship," said I, *' be it what else
it may."

'* It is a real bell, though," she exclaimed.

"Ay, real indeed," said I, "too real for
superstition to find a footing on it, though
it is a chilly sort of thing to happen at this
hour, amid this wild loneliness too. It needed
to have been but a little less real to have
thickened the blood with fancies of an
enchanted island."

We waited, expecting to hear it again, but
the ringer had apparently exhausted his merrymaking
fit for the time being, and all remained
silent, saving the chirp of the crickets and
the wash of the surf, with here and there a
sulky croak.

Had I seen some figure stalking towards
us out of the wood, I don't think, armed as
I was, and free from all superstitious stirrings,
that I should have been wanting in courage ;
but I confess I hesitated when it came into
my head to penetrate the deep ebon shadow
of the forest, and search for the ringer and
his bell. In the wide glittering open, with the
moon riding high overhead, a man rendered
desperate by such a condition as mine might
find heart enough for any sort of search or encounter
; but the wood was as black as the

bottom of a well. Here and there one could
just catch sight of a faint oozing of moonshine
into the dark blot which the trees made upon
the land and against the sky ; but it was easy
to guess that one's entrance into that heavy
obscurity must signify a groping rather thana
peering bout. Who or what might be there,
who could say ?

No," said I ; '' I'll not venture it."

'' Venture what ? " asked Miss Grant.

"Why," said I, " I had a mind just now to
explore for that bell."

"You would be mad to do such a thing,"
she exclaimed with energy ; " indeed I should
not permit it," and she grasped my arm.
There must be a man in that wood," she
continued, lowering her voice. '' There must
be human agency to set that bell going.
Perhaps after all the island zs inhabited, and
there may be a nest of savages in that forest,
who hid themselves on seeing us, and now
dream of scaring us away by ringing a bell.
Oh, I wish we coii/d be scared away ! " she
continued, as with a shiver she glanced over
her shoulder seawards.

I shook my head. "No," said I, 'Til
swear there are no Indians hereabouts. Had
they existence, we were bound to have met
with some signs of them ; a canoe — a wigwam,
or whatever else their dwelling-place may be
called — remains of fires — relics of feasting.
I should like to have a good look round from
the hummock. Will you stay here ? I shan't
be gone long."

'' Certainly not. I would not be alone for — "
she broke off, whilst she stepped to where her
hat lay and put It on, and I saw the glint of
her pistol-barrel In her hand. " It Is wicked
to feel nervous," she exclaimed, " but what
could be so unnatural as the sound of a bell
here ? — and then not to be able to Imagine
what dreadful creatures may be hidden amongst
those trees."

We walked to the hummock, thinking much
more of the sound of the bell and of the
hidden being that had swung it than of the
noisome or venomous objects we might by
chance tread upon, and having gained the
elevation, sent many a look round the sea
and into the heart of the little island ; but all

this side of the ocean was as bare as the
northern quarter, whilst not the faintest movement
of dark substance or of black shadow
could we see, scrutinizingly as we gazed, on
any part of the land. The night breeze
had died away ; there was scarce movement
enough of air to breathe cool upon the
moistened finger. South and east the ocean
stretched, motionless as a surface of polished
black wood, and the languid seething of
the near surf was so delicate that it stole
into the air like the moan of breakers leagues
distant. We lingered ten minutes, then returned.


It took me some time to persuade Miss
Grant to enter her hammock afresh. I told
her that I would keep watch ; that there was
really no more reason to be afraid now than
there had been before we heard the bell ;
that if the bell had been rung with the idea
of scaring us, it was plain that, whatever might
be our alarm, we also were held in fear ; that
if there were Indians in hiding, treacherously
disposed, they were not very likely to arouse
us from the sleep in which they could have

stolen upon and murdered or otherwise dealt
with us as it pleased them.

'rit is a puzzle," said I, "that we must
wait for the daylight to resolve. Meanwhile
rest is necessary to you, and you must please
lie down. Trust to my vigilance, and sleep
without misgiving."

Eventually she complied. I made her
comfortable as before, carefully enveloped
her hammock with the mosquito-net, then
with a look at my pistols to see that all was
right with them, I lighted a cheroot, swigged
off a dram of brandy, and fell to pacing the
stretch of sand, sentinel-fashion, close to the
hammock, and keeping a bright look-out on
the trees beyond, believe me.

A PIRATICAL LAIR.

The time slipped wearily and heavily away.
The march of the moon was so slow that It was
enough to make one think sometimes she had
come to a stand. I paced the breadth of white
sand till I was weary, then sat down, nodded,
perhaps dozed, sprang to my feet again with a
keen look towards the density of trees, which,
as the moon floated westwards, stole out black
and yet blacker, till the whole block of It was
like a great staining of ink upon the liquid
silver atmosphere behind, and resumed my
pacing. Now and again Miss Grant lifted her
head, bride-like with the drapery of the
mosquito-curtain ; but a time came when she
lay still, and on stepping close very softly and
peering, I found her sleeping peacefully, breathing

gently and regularly, and looking the very
phantom of a lovely woman under the filmy
texture of the curtain, with a sort of lunar
twilight sifting through the umbrageous shadow
to her out of the soft, golden-tinctured air
where the open was.

It was as if the night were bewitched, so
hushed it was ;, I never witnessed a movement
anywhere save the black shapes of turtle
crawling up the sand by the creek side, or onto
the beach facing the east. How puzzled I
was by the ringing of the bell, by Its ceasing
for the rest of the night, by nothing whatever
having encountered my eye as a hint of inhabitants,
by the dead repose in the little forest,
with never a shadowy flicker anywhere about
to define the flitting of a human form, I cannot
express. At last, having seated myself to rest
after a considerable spell of walking, I fell
asleep, and so lay till I was awakened by the
rising of the sun, and opened my eyes upon
his blinding stream pouring aslant from three
or four degrees above the horizon.

I stepped to the hammock ; Miss Grant still
slept, but so sweet and fair did she look that I

could not break away from watching her. My
fixed gaze aroused her ; she opened her eyes
suddenly, and I backed a step, confused, and
perhaps feeling a little mean at being detected.
However, she awoke with too much wondering
at her o\vn situation and the strangeness of her
surroundings to imagine my inquisitiveness, or
to note the admiration which I doubt not would
have been perceptible in me by her clearer
vision. She threw the mosquito-curtain off her,
and sat erect, and exclaimed, '' Thank God, it
is daylight ! " looking in a restless way around
her, with her hands clasped, her cheek with
the hectic of slumber still on it, her beauty rich
with the disorder of her hair, and the light in
her eyes of transient bewildered thought that
fired them like contending passions.

However, she had slept for three or four
hours, and was the stronger and fresher for it.
For my part, I felt so jaded and stale that
every instinct in me clamoured for a plunge, so
I trudged away past the head of the creek to
the north shore, and spent ten delicious minutes
amid the surf there, venturing however no
further than waist-high •, for whilst undressing

I had spied seawards, within musket-shot, a
motionless black object, with a lean of it that
made me fancy at first it was an empty bottle,
but which, when it flashed out on a sudden with
a wet gleam, I very promptly accepted as the
dorsal fin of a shark.

I returned to Miss Grant feeling years
younger, and found her dressing her hair before
an ivory hand-glass, which she had hung
against the trunk of a tree. Well, thought I,
marooning brings about strange intimacies !
Perhaps it might be married people only that a
scrupulous mutineers crew would think proper
to set ashore. But it was no time for fastidious
feelings, quite the wrong sort of occasion for
prudery of any sort, for any kind of modesty
and decorum outside the dictation of plain good
sense, realizing accurately the conditions of the
situation, and admitting no other government
than wholesome honest instinct. In fact you
must be cast away with a girl to find out how
artificial life is, and how much fairer the virtues
show for being purified by stress of obligation
into artlessness. I was for turning away, with
the Idea of searching for the eggs the turtles

might have laid in the night, but she continued
placidly brushing the long lengths of her glowing
hair, with a smile on her face as she looked
at me out of the mirror ; so I walked straight
on, and set about overhauling our provisions
with the idea of preparing a little breakfast for
ourselves. I had taken a view of the sea from
the north side, and now I searched the horizon
on this, but no sail broke the shining line. At
a rough guess I reckoned that the remainder
of our private stores, which had been set ashore
with us by the men, might with great care be
made to carry us through another fortnight,
helped by such food as we should find on the
island. Indeed, this question of provisions did
not very greatly worry me, for there was not
only promise of a bountiful supply in one
direction in the shape of turtle ; there were
cocoa-nuts, also oranges in plenty, green or
ripe, on the north-west side of the little forest,
as I had perceived whilst I sat drying myself
after coming out of the sea. We could count
too on a good store of crawfish, which fortunately
I knew how to catch. There were
iguanas besides, delicate to the palate as spring

chicken If properly dressed, though loathsome
in their lizard form to the eye. No ! the fear
of starving did not visit me, but mainly I believe
because the mind resolutely shrank from
the contemplation of the possibility of our imprisonment
lasting long enough to render famine
imaginable. The consuming thought was, How
if no ship should approach the place were we to
escape ? This consideration engrossed me even
whilst my mind seemed busy in reckoning up
the stock of provisions, and again and again I
would find myself pausing In that work, with a
dull sense of hopelessness that was a sort of
distraction in its way, whilst I looked round the
island wondering if it was in human Ingenuity
to manufacture out of it any sort of floating
fabric to which we might commit ourselves
without the certainty of perishing by drowning.

Miss Grant was full of the subject of the
bell. She could talk of nothing else, and whilst
we sat at our little repast of preserved meat and
sweet biscuit, she was incessantly directing
her looks towards the wood.

There may be people there," she said,
watching us all the time. I thought I saw

something move when you had left me just
now. We must find out to-day if this island
is inhabited. The approach of the night will
be Intolerable if we are to expect that bell to
ring again without knowing where It is, or what
produces the sound."

I shall explore those trees shortly," said I ;
"let me have your pistol. \Mth mine it will
orlve me three shots without obliorine me to
reload."

She drew it from her belt where it had lain
all night with her. I thought I would try its
quality, and taking aim at a leaf that stood in
clear green outline against the sky, I pulled the
trigger, and the leaf fluttered slowly to the
ground. The sharp ping of the pistol was
followed by many hoarse cries of paroquet,
and a large bird broke like a shape of burnished
gold out of a dense cover of leaves in the heart
of the tree at which I had fired, and sailed
away towards the forest, waking many hideous
echoes with Its discordant notes.

"An excellent little weapon indeed," said I,
going to my portmanteau for a powder-flask,
and reloading the pistol. " Pity it is not old

VOL. n. s

Breakwater's blunderbuss though. The blast
of that bell-mouthed engine would be the sort
of hint one would like to gflve if there be ears
yonder to receive such messages."

'' I will accompany you," said she ; " It Is
Inaction and expectation that keep me frightened."


"Lord preserve you," said I, "look at that
growth of grass ! You would need to be
dressed as I am to penetrate it."

Indeed It was only too plain that nothing In
the shape of petticoats and skirts could be
forced, short of one's wake after a plunge or
two becoming a raffle of shreds and tatters,
through the dense, coarse, bush-like herbage
which stood to the height of a man's waist
among the trees. Indeed, the better to equip
myself for this adventure, I laced on a pair of
stout leather leggings, whilst I buttoned myself
up In a short pea-jacket so as to oppose
the trimmest figure I could contrive to the
stubborn dusky confronting of bush and
guinea-grass. Leaving her standing and
watching, I walked briskly towards the trees,
with the butt-end of a pistol projecting from

either side-pocket, and Miss Grant's weapon in
my hand. Piercing as the sunlight was, the
forage was so dense, the intermingling of
boughs so thickly complicated, whilst the trees,
moreover, stood so close together, that within
half-a-dozen paces of the eastward opening of
this little forest the green gloom lay beyond
belief heavy. The obscurity brought me to a
stand at least a minute, until the blinding glare
of the open had gone out of my eyes, and I
could see plainly. Climbers and creepers of all
kinds, training and coiling like serpents, added
yet to the dusk by filling the spaces between
the trunks with a vao^ue showering of crimson,
star-shaped blossoms. After the heat outside,
the atmosphere here struck almost chill ; there
was a sickly smell of rotting vegetation too, and
nearly every tread of mine was upon something
pulpy that yielded to the pressure with an ugly,
juicy sensation as if 'twas soddened through
with centuries of black miry damp ; though
maybe it was no more than a toadstool, or a
frog, or a bunch of decaying fruit. Through a
little cleft at wide intervals you'd catch a glimpse
of the sea spreading brimful of soft blue lights

2

to the sky, with a wild buzzing of insects coming
in through the opening on a gush of hot air.

I moved with a vigilant eye, crushing warily
through the quickset understand, gazing at
every tree-trunk as though another step should
open a figure behind it watching me. I need
not deny that I felt very timid. The mere
cathedral-gloom made by this dense interweaving
of greenery was almost preternatural
in its way, when one thought of the dazzle that
was just outside. Then again, even if there
should be no human beings here to suddenly
let fly at me with a spear, or arrow, or fusil,
how was I to know what savage beast lurked
in this wild tangle of shadows ? Some of the
snaking branches wore the very aspect of giant
serpents writhing in folds off one tree to
another. Here and there fell a smoky, golden
haze of sunbeam, but it only deepened the
obscurity of the leafy aisles ; though had I had
an eye for such matters at that time, I must
have found something lovely beyond imagination
In these dashes of soft radiance, bringing out
some bunch of huge leaves, some cluster of
green fruit never maybe to ripen, some scarred

and ragged elbow of bough, forking black
through a drapery of runners and white-hearted
flowers which looked to be falling like a cataract
of green waters flecked with foam from the
confused darkling roof of branch and foliage on
high. Whether the sight of my moving figure
alarmed the scores of birds amongst the trees,
I know not ; but the cries, pipings, hoarse
parrot-like rawlings which broke from them,
fell tormenting upon my nervous ear, that
longed for peace that it might hearken for any
signal of danger.

I had been pushing my way forwards for
seven or eight minutes without catching sight
of anything more than the flickering plumage
of some strange bird here and there, with the
glint on it as of a self-luminous object, or as if
it still carried the brightness of the sunshine it
had been steeped in, when on my left, just pasta
couple of trees whose trunks rose to their
branches with a twist in them which made one
think of a pair of petrified boa-constrictors, I
caught sight of a bell hanging from under a
cover like the lid of a box, supported by two
stout stanchions, the whole as green as the

wooden piles of a pier washed by salt water.
'that's it!" thought I. 'come! here is
discovery number one. It is a real bell anyhow
! " and somewhat marvelling at the sight of
such a thing, I made for it. The frame that
supported it might have been a hundred years
old, and the bell itself twice as ancient as that.
The metal was green and bronzed with time
and weather. I made out some faint lingering
of what had been an inscription upon it, but the
characters were indecipherable. I opened my
knife and put the blade of it into the wood of
the frame, and it was like sticking a cheese, so
damp and thunderous too was the timber, like
soaked watchword. A piece of grass line was
attached to the clapper, and hung a foot below
the mouth of the bell. It looked rotten, though
I gave it a tug without parting it. To make
sure that this was the same bell we had heard
in the night, I struck it two or three times.
The tone satisfied me. I also knew that Miss
Grant, by hearing the notes, would conclude
that I had discovered the bell. But who on
earth could have rung it ? I sent as penetrating
a gaze as the twilight of the forest would permit

in all directions, but nothing approaching human
shape or signs of human life was to be seen.

It was clear enough that this bell was seated
in the very heart of the little forest, and as I was
resolved that my over hauling of the place
should be thorough, I pushed on to the western
extremity of the trees, till I could see the sea
opening like a great blue eye over the slope of
down to the ivory of the sand ; and then worked
my way with a fight for every foot I advanced,
so dense, spike-like, and briery was the tangle.
Again and again I paused, always with Miss
Grant's pistol ready cocked in my hand, and
gazed earnestly right and left and behind me,
till I presently came to where the trees thinning
gave me a view of the smaller of the two
hummocks, with the herbage and trails of sand
rounding north-east to the spot where we had
passed the night. The daylight here lay broad,
and after walking a little I came to sheer sand,
with patches of grass sprouting out of it, a clump
of cocoa flourishing beyond, which made me
wonder again, for I could see no sign of soil.

I halted a little while to recover my breath,
and cleanse my face of the sweat that poured

down it. I could no long-er doubt that the wood
was as untenanted as the rest of the island.
What hand then had rung the bell ? There
had been no draught of air to stir the weight of
metal in the night. The alighting of some
heavy bird upon it might indeed have caused
it to sway, but there was nothing living with
wings the wide world over to account for the
several sorts of peals which had rung forth — the
dirge-like tolling, the quicker beat, then the
mad helter-skelter clattering, and then the
solemn requiem chimes again. It was enough
to put the wildest thoughts into the most prosaic
brains that ever mortal head carried, and I
must confess to looking backwards into the dim
twilight from which I had emerged with a sort
of shrinking feeling in me, and with a bit of
wonder too that I should have found heart
enough to carry me through the exploration
with the stoutness I had exhibited.

I started to walk afresh to join Miss Grant,
when, having made three or four steps, forgetful
perhaps of preserving the shambling gait I
had used in the high grass, the point of my
boot struck something in the sand, and down I

went, measuring the whole length of me, the
pistol I grasped exploding as I fell. I jumped
up not a little flurried by this unexpected
capital, and on looking to see what it was that
I had kicked against, I observed a large iron
ring lying black upon the sand. I thought topick
it up, but on grasping it I discovered that
it was fixed to an eye screwed or bolted into
either wood or masonry hidden by the sand.
I was busy in scraping away the sand lying
around about the ring with the sharp of my
foot when Miss Grant arrived.

What have you seen, Mr. Musgrave ? " she
cried. " At whom or what have you fired ? "

Oh," said I, " I tripped over this ring just
now, and the pistol went off as I fell."

She barely glanced at the ring ; her thoughts
were elsewhere.

I heard the bell ; did you ring it ? "

'' Yes," I replied.

"What else did you see amongst the trees ?"
she inquired.

•' Nothing else. It is some old ship's bell," I
replied, " hanging at a kind of scaffold that
might be a hundred years old, perhaps more."

No man ? " she asked.

'* Nothing in the faintest degree approaching
one, black, white, or yellow," I replied.

But, Mr. Musgrave, ivho could have rung
the bell then ? "

*' We may yet find out. At present I have
not the faintest notion. But see here. Miss
Grant ; what is the meaning of this ring ? It
is a fixture. There will be some sort of trap
down here, or I am much mistaken. If I had
but a spade now ! "

She looked again at the ring, and her interest
came to it. She stooped and pulled at it, and
then finding it fixed, recoiled a step or two and
said, " We had better not meddle with it. The
bell is wretched enough as a puzzle. Don't let
us seek fresh adventures, Mr. Musgrave."

I mused a bit. *' At all events," said I, " no
harm can attend our seeing to what sort of
arrangement the rino^ is secured."

There were shells of many kinds strewn
about the beach, some of them as big as dishes,
sharp-edged enough to cut a man's head off. I
picked up three or four, and brought them to
where the rini^ was, and fell to scratching and

digging with them, Miss Grant helping me.
The shells spooned up the sand plentifully, and
after working a little we laid bare what had unquestionably
been some small ship's hatch-cover,
about four feet square. On scooping yet a little
at the lap of the edges, I found that this cover
rested upon a timber frame, which in its turn
was doubtless steadied by piles driven into the
earth under the surface of sand. I tugged withall
my might at the ring, but could not lift the
hatch. Miss Grant, whose curiosity was now
aroused, and who seemed willing that wee should
look a little further into this business, put her
hands to the ring too, but our united efforts
could do nothing with the cover. 1 had no
mind, however, to be balked, and after considering
a while what I should do, I pulled out
my knife, and opening the saw-blade, swarmed
up a tree to a stout, straight, 
bough that had caught my eye, and
putting my knife to it, worked away patiently
till I had cut three-quarters through it, after
which I sprang on to the bough and came
down with it in a fall to the ground. It was as
good as a hand spike. I reeved it through the

ring, using it as a lever, and pressing it upwards
with my shoulder, I so jarred and shook the
hatch-cover that it was presently loose enough
to lift.

On removing it, I found that it had concealed
a tunnel which vanished after a gradual slope
of a few feet into utter blackness. Three or
four rude steps fell in a flight to where the slope
began, so that on descending a man needed but
stoop his head to move clear of the roof of this
strange cellar. I kneeled down to peer sideways
into the obscurity, but saw nothing for the
blackness there. An old faint, damp sort of
smell arose.

We had better put the cover on and go
away," said Miss Grant ; " there may be something
horrible hidden in that grave."

Nothing living, at all events," said I ; 'rit is
some old freebooter's lair, some ancient piratical
hiding-place, or I am very much mistaken.
That secreted bell yonder is a part of the
equipment — set up to serve as an alarm, and to
signal with, and perhaps to tell the hours too.
I must probe that hole ; there may be a discovery
under our feet worth making."

"Mr. Musgrave, you will not be so rash!
What can you hope to discover — that can be, I
mean, of the least use to us ? "

The sense of our helplessness seemed on a
sudden to smite her as a shock; she drew a
quick breath, and sent a yearning glance along
the ocean line, almost unconsciously, as one
looks up to heaven in a prayer. I thought to
rally her with a stroke or two of idle fancy, and
said, '' Time was when many of these Bahama
Cays were the haunts of the picaroons ; swift
and tidy little schooners, loaded to their ways
with the treasure of plundered galleons, came
watching to these secret verdant islands : the
treasure was brought ashore by the beauties who
had stolen it, and buried. Occasionally a blackman
was murdered, that his ghost might haunt
the sepulchre in which the booty lay, and
sentinel it against other marauders. Maybe
it was the ghost of a murdered black man who
rang that bell last night. Miss Grant, I give
you my word I am speaking the truth. The
Goodwin Sands themselves have scarce gorged
more wealth in their time than the pirates and
buccaneers have buried in the islands and costa

firnie of these waters, though I don't say there''
said I pointing into the square hole that looked
like the mouth of a well. " Yet when we have
made our escape from this place, and are safe
and snug in civilized quarters, should I on
recalling this secret vault, endure to think that I
had wanted spirit enough to explore it ? Conceive
of our coming across several chests down there
crammed to the lids with golden doubloons,
crucifixes of the precious metal sparkling with
gems, chalices which might make a Jew kneel
to the Sacrament for love of the beautiful workmanship."
She smiled ; I burst into a laugh.
No," said I, "my expectations are not so high-pitched.
Nevertheless, I must take a view of
that interior."

'' Mr. Muso^rave," she exclaimed, with a
little pout and some warmth of feeling in the
look she shot at me, with a droop of the lids
instantly afterwards — the most womanly touch
that could be imagined, with its flash of reproach
and the pleading of the averted eye
that followed, 'pray do not forget that if anything
should happen to you, / am alone''

I hung in the wind, for it grieved me to give

her a moments anxiety. But unless a ship took
us off it was certain that we must regard ourselves
as prisoners for life, if we failed to
devise some fabric for making our escape in.
It was impossible to know but that we might
discover something in this cave which should
prove of inestimable value to us, even as a step
towards our deliverance, and on my dwelling
upon this and assuring her that I could not
imagine there should be any risk in my taking
a view of the interior, her face cleared, and she
seemed to agree with me ; but I could read in
her that though she had the heart of a lioness,
it fell short of prompting her to offer to accompany
me. I doubt if there was ever yet a
woman who would have found courage to have
entered the black hole, even though her refusal
should have cost her her lover. For my part,
I felt no reluctance whatever, and yet Miss
Grant was so much more heroical than I, in
the truest sense of word, that recollection of
the disparity tempts me almost into egotism in
illustrations of my own humble doings.

I had a parcel of sperm candles in my
portmanteau — useful articles to carry to sea in

those, as perhaps in these, days. I fetched and
lighted one of these, and singing it by a length
of tape, lowered it into the square to test the
atmosphere below. It burned brightly. Indeed
my nose had given me sufficient assurance
of there being nothing wrong in that way.
Then bidding Miss Grant to remain where she
was, and not to feel uneasy, I descended the
steps, and holding the candle up, took a look
ahead. I found myself on a shelving floor of
hard sand and mould, walled on either side
with stanchions and pieces of timber, running
athwart into a slender passage, which, however,
opened rapidly into an apartment, the roof of
which was about a head higher than my full
stature. This room might be about nine feet
square. Beyond it, led to by a doorway that
had in its time been screened by a curtain, as I
gathered from the sight of a small metal pole
bracketed athwart it, was a second room, black
as any tomb, as you will suppose. The flame of
the candle burnt bright, yet it was but a feeble
licht for the illumination of such an interior as
this, and I found it difficult to distinguish
objects. On the left-hand side of this first

room in which I stood was a low structure of
bricks, which, on approaching it, I found had
served in its time as a furnace for cooking.
Over against it, suspended by nails driven into
one of the beams which formed the transverse
supporters of the wall, were several quaint,
extremely old-fashioned cooking utensils, such
as saucepans, frying-pans, a kettle, and the like.
Two or three articles of a similar description
lay under them upon the ground, whence they
had dropped through rottenness of the spikes
or timber, like over-ripe fruit. On the right
stood a queer rustic-looking table very rudely
made, the legs branching out like open compasses.
I had seen such tables with villagers
drinking at them outside old rural public-houses
in England. On either hand were a couple of
high-backed chairs. I approached the opening
conducting to the inner apartment somewhat
timorously. I was never a superstitious man,
but there was something in the aspect of this
dim, mouldy underground haunt that, affected
as the imagination might also be at such a
moment by recurrence to the mystery of the
midnight bell-ringing, might well have set the

VOL. II. T

hair of a stouter-spirited man than mine creeping
and Hating upon his head. I listened
attentively ; the stillness was unutterably deep,
something to make one think of the silence that
a man Interred alive might hear In his coffin.
However, I had talked somewhat big to Miss
Grant, and perhaps was In no temper to be
dismayed by my own fancies ; so breaking from
my posture of hearkening, with a look round
at the shadows flitting to the movement of the
candle in my hand, I advanced to the threshold
of the second chamber and peered in, holding
the light In advance of me.

There was some furniture here, and consequently
objects sufficient to excite a passing
emotion of consternation by the dark flickering,
so to speak, of several kinds of outlines. I
stood staring, and presently made the chamber
out to have been a bedroom. A four-post
bedstead, the uprights of which however had
been cut short to admit of their erection In this
low-celled apartment, stood opposite the entrance.
The candle-light seemed to find a dull
reflection in the legs of It, and on drawing near
I saw that they had been gilt. It had been a

very magnificent bedstead In olden times, no
doubt. The feet were richly-carved figures of
mermaids, the posts of ebony, with signs Hungering
of a once gaudy inlaying. There was a
mattress upon the bed and a great bolster,
along with a huge, coarse, dark rug. Slung by
straps to the wall were several firelock of the
pattern the buccaneers of the seventeenth
century were wont to level, and the like number
of pistols, all nearly of the dimensions of a
fowling-piece of our time. There was also a
small array of broadswords and hangers, some
fallen, having rotted from the straps by which
they had hung. I spied a small chest in one
corner, of black oak, and walked to it, having
by this time got rid of my timidity. I opened
it — let me admit, with a pulse accelerated by
expectation — and holding the candle close,
looked in ; but alas ! instead of massive treasure
the chest contained nothing more than a quantity
of fish-hooks of various sizes, a ball or two
of rotted cotton-thread, and three or four 
rolls, which proved to be charts, of
which the tracings were rendered indistinguishable
bv dirt and mildew. The side of this

T 2

cavernous chamber where the chest stood was
papered, as It were, with a sort of loose hangings.
I had not noticed this but for their
swaying to the Httle current of air wafted by
my moving the Hd of the box. This drapery
was of yellow silk, covered with strange devices
wrought In black, but time or damp had obliterated
so much of the figuration, whilst my
candle gave forth so uncertain a light, that it
was impossible to make a guess at the nature
of the designs. Here too were a couple of
black wood stools, the legs showing traces of
gilding, and a circular steel mirror cut In facets,
so tarnished that I viewed It for some time
without knowing what It was. Whilst I was
gazing around me lost In wonder, but with a
tolerably clear conception of the character of
this subterranean dwelling-place, my eye was
taken by a faint reflection directly amidships of
the roof, and on elevating the candle I observed
that a lahore frame of slabs had been let into
the ceiling, every pane lozenge-shaped. It was
indeed like a skylight on a ship's deck. I
passed Into the first room, and observed the
same contrivance there. The sight of these

windows gave me an idea, and I at once
stepped into the shelving corridor and mounted
the steps, blinking like an owl at the brilliant
morning blaze.

'■' Oh, Mr. ^lusgrave," cried Miss Grant, " I
was afraid you would never return I I have
been expecting every instant to hear the report
of your pistol. What have you seen ? Oh,
something, I do hope, that will explain that
bell-ringing last night."

'what I have seen you shall presently see,"
said I. " It is as snug a two-roomed dwelling-house
as one could wish, a bit mouldy perhaps,
but a tidier lodofinof than a tree anyhow. There
will be two windows under the sand here.
How will they bear nowe"'

Two windows ! ' she exclaimed ; and there
was little to wonder at in her surprise either, for
the sand trended smooth to the dense thickets
of herbage, where the trees went huddling into
the forest as though it were formed of the
quicksilver which the metal dazzle of it — like
the fiery points of new tin flashing back the
sun — made it resemble ; and it needed something:
more than imagination to enable one to

conceive of such a thing as a window having
anything to do with this surface of coral, almost
powdery, softness.

After pondering a minute, I walked to the
spot, shells in hand, where I reckoned the window
of the kitchen underneath to be situated,
and fell a-scraping ; and when I had made a
hole about a foot and a half deep, the edge of
the shell scratched crisply over something
polished. This proved to be a frame of glass.
Miss Grant stood beside me, looking on, scarcely
understanding what I was at, whilst I shovelled
away with a couple of big shells, tossing the
sand aside as a child digs for sport on the seashore,
until I had laid bare a good space of the
skylight. It was easy work, for the admixture
of soil was too trifling to give much density and
weight to the sand ; yet it took me near an hour
to lay bare the first skylight. I found it formed,
as I had previously conjectured, of the frames
of some vessel's skylight, but of a vessel that
had been afloat in an age when, as I supposed,
shipwrights were here and there to be found
willing to embellish the fabrics they launched
with lozenge-shaped windows in the deck fittings.

The frames lay flat, like the cover of a
latch, solidly overlapping the edge of a timber
casement. With the help of the hand spike I
had manufactured, I prized one of the frames
out of its fixings, which had been hastened by wet
running sand into a kind of cement, then with my
hands tore it bodily up. The high sun struck full
through the opening; Miss Grant peered down.

'' It is a room ! " she cried.

"Yes'" said I-rand it will furnish us with the
sort of asylum we stand In need of until the
moment of our deliverance arrives."

"You do not intend that we should sleep
down there 1 " she exclaimed, flushing to the
startling thought, whilst her eves brightened
with the dread in her.

'•'You shall judge for yourself presently,"
said I, laughing.

Sleep in such a hole as that I " she cried,
with her white forefinger dramatically pointing
downwards, and a fine Imperiousness In the
pose of her figure springing as It were out of a
sort of passing indignation at my suggestion.
"Why, i\Ir. Musgrave, supposing the man that
rung the bell last night should discover that we

were underground ; he might put the covers on
these holes, and then — and then — "

We should be buried alive," said 1 ; '' only
there is no man here, so I am not afraid."

Who rung the bell then ? " she asked.

''^o man, I'll swear," 1 answered, "unless
he be endowed with some mystic power of
converting himself into a bush or tree at sicrht.
Indeed I hope we may not be able to find out
who did ring the bell," I continued, sending a
look at the ocean, " for I should like to be taken
off at once, at this very minute indeed. But if
we are forced to tarry we shall solve the mystery,
depend upon it. There's another window somewhere
to be cleaned, Miss Grant," I continued,
speaking cheerfully, "and when that's done I'll
show you so quaint and surprising a curiosity
in the shape of a piratical lair, that if I had it
within reach of the millions of Great Britain I
should make a fortune in a month by exhibiting
it at a shillings a head. But how ores the hour ? "
I looked at my watch ; it was after eleven. "It
is time," said I, " to take a peep at the sea from
the hummock. Pray God some gleam of canvas
may be showing."

She refused to remain until I returned, and
so we went together. I must own to finding
her most fascinating when she was most
timorous. In her fearless moods she seemed
to be withdrawn to a distance from me, so to
speak ; but her manner grew tenderly clinging
when she was nervous. She passed her hand
through my arm as we walked away, giving a
glance over her shoulder at the dark square
hatch upon the sand, with an unconscious
pressure of her fingers upon my sleeve. It
was strange that she who had sat calm in the
presence of the body of the murdered mate,
who had confronted with wonderful composure
the most threatening and malignant experiences
of the voyage, should tremble at a black
hole in the sand, and at my proposal to tenant
a lodging which would protect us at least from
the dews of heaven, from the sting of the
mosquito, and from the jaws of the land-crab.
But may not one read of a field-marshal fainting
at sight of a mouse ? It might not have
needed more than a spider on her petticoat towring
a wilder screech from Joan of Arc than
ever the stake extorted. One is sorry to say

it — but it is true, nevertheless — that it is in the
weaknesses of human nature that one finds its
loveliness.

There was nothing in sight. I searched
with a shipwrecked eye, but the brim of the
ocean ran in an unbroken sweep of blue to
the mirroring of the sun. The heavens were
cloudless, not the faintest feather of vapour
in the whole spacious dome from its azure at
the horizon to its brassy central glare. The
heat would have been unendurable but for
the shelter of the wide umbrella under which
we both stood. The faintest draught of air
was stirring, sometimes expiring, to let the
fiery buzzing of the island swing tingling to
the ear, then floating afresh, hot as a fold of
atmosphere from a furnace, driving the sound
of the feverish concert back. The atmosphere
trembled to the drawing of the sun ; branch
and tree and every spear of grass, the slim
length of the cocoa to its tufted head, the
plumed arch of the palm, the great drooping
leaf of the wild cotton-tree, faintly writhed
upon the sight, till you thought you could seethe
mass of tropic vegetation growing — with

many a crackling noise as of growths rent by
the roasting glare cleaving the shrill, fierce
humming with a strange and startling edge of
sound.

Miss Grant brought her eyes away from the
sea, and looked at me as we stood close together
under the shade of the umbrella.
'' What is to become of us ? " she exclaimed
thoughtfully, without expression of alarm or
dejection.

We must trust to God and to our own
energy," I replied, " and above all keep our
hearts up. Some means of escape, if nothing-comes
from outside, will suggest itself. Meanwhile
we have abundance of fresh sweet water,
there is no fear of our lacking food, we have
found as decent a lodging as marooned people
have a right to expect." She sighed and tried
to smile, but you saw she could get no comfort
out of the thought of the lodging. " Our
health is good, and one wish at least of yours
is gratified — we are not separated."

I know not in what sort of tone I may have
uttered this last, but I noticed that her eyes
fell at the close of my speech, her white teeth

shone over her under-Hp to the just breathless
biting of It, and then she said In her purely
natural manner, " And we must not be
separated, Mr. Musgrave, until — until — I mean
you ought not to undertake anything rash —
such as exploring tombs, for Instance."

I smiled and said, ''A mouthful of something
to eat will not hurt us, and I am pining for a
long draught of yonder cold bubbling brook.
Afterwards we will have another look at the
tomb, as you call It. Only think of a kitchen
ready-made to our hands ! We shall be having
turtle-soup tomorrow, and delicate fricassee
of iguana. There are some plantains t'other
side there, past that hump of green, along with
an orange-tree or two, and with patience. Miss
Grant, we may even yet see our way to a
fruit-pie."

*' Oh, dear, Mr. Musgrave," she cried, with
an almost hysteric laugh, and an eloquent
impassioned toss of her hands that could only
have come to her with her mother's blood, " If
we could but have foreseen all this In London
when we were talking over the voyage ! "

I fancy she read the thought that was In my

mind at that moment, and to rescue myself, I
said, but perhaps too sedately, "It will make
a thrilling story for you to entertain Alexander
with."

"Ah, poor dear old boy!" she exclaimed,
taking my arm as before, and we walked to the
spot where the luggage lay.

AN UNDERGROUND LODGING.

By two o'clock that afternoon I had entirely
cleared the second window of the sand that
rested nearly two feet thick upon it. I prized
open a casement that the apartment beneath
might obtain purification from the air as well as
from the sunshine, and I then asked Miss
Grant to step below with me and view the
rooms. She had seen enough by peering
through the skylights to excite her curiosity, and
moreover to reassure her mind ; and so she
now let me hand her down that black hole
from which she had shrunk with her eyes
shine with dismay in the morning.

The coolness of the atmosphere in this
cavern was nigh as refreshing as a bath after
the roasting glow up above, and the softened

light of it fell soothingly upon the eye, fresh
from the blinding whiteness of the sand and
the blue brilliance off the ocean, where the
atmosphere was sheer effulgence, though the
afternoon sun had carried his wake around
south, away from the quarters we had confronted.
]\Iiss Grant looked quickly about the
place, advancing to the doorway of the inner
room with a hurried survey of the chamber, and
then her manner lost its restlessness.

Do you know, Mr. Musgrave," she said, " I
expected to find that you had missed some
secret way of getting out of this place. I felt
almost certain that this was the haunt of the
person who rung the bell last night."

You are satisfied, I hope ? "

I see two rooms, and only one entrance.
Yes, I am satisfied," she said, continuing to look
round her penetratingly. " Have you lifted
that faded silk hanging ? " referring to the
yellow drapery against the wall in the inner
apartment.

No," I answered, " but I'll do better than
lift it," and so saying, I went and pulled it down.
It was like dragging at a cobweb. No stagnant

flag rotting in the gloom of an abbey's roof
over an aged stall would have parted more easily
to a pull. The wall the stuff had concealed
was like the others, soil and sand, solidified and
shored up by a great number of stanchions and
transverse beams. Miss Grant now behaved as
if she were in a museum. Her face was lighted
up by curiosity, and she peered at everything
with the liveliest interest. The daylight lay
bright in each room, and the damp and mouldy
smell was fast yielding to the aromatic air
gushing warmly in, laden with the island's
multitudinous voice, through the open casements.
I overhauled the contents of the old
black chest afresh, in the hope of meeting with
some hint of the story of this queer dwelling-place,
but found nothing to suggest an idea
even. The charts, so far as I could make them
out, were buccaneering maps of the Antilles and
the Panama main, with here and there a rude,
ill-digested, most deceptive outline stealing out
of the grimy thickness of dirt and mildew. I
stretched the silk to the light, but the migrations
were as vague as they had shown by candlelight.
The fire-arms were crumbling, rusty old

pieces, great curiosities no doubt in their way,
as were the pistols and the hangers, and indeed
every piece of furniture in the place.

And you think," said INIiss Grant, coming
to a stand after the narrowest imaginable inspection
of everything in true womanly style,
and gazing around her with wonder unmixed
any longer with apprehension, " that this was
many years ago the home of a pirate ? "

'' Ay, no doubt of it," I responded. " A
hundred and fifty years ago I dare say this was
a very glittering and sumptuous interior. Look
at the legs of that bedstead. Sslw any one the
like of such carving, I mean on so prosaic a
piece of furniture ? It was the princely decoration
of some rich galleon's state-cabin, I dare say,
and one need not shut one's eyes to realize the
idea of a head like Cervantes — who, by the way,
was an exceedingly ugly man — snoring on a
pillow there, the figure concealed to the throat
by some exquisitely-worked counterpane of silk.
Here is enough to set the imagination off into a
brisk trot. The high-sterne polacre, striking
the glory of the westering sun from her windows
into the dark blue beneath, is riding within

VOL. II. u

musket-shot of the beach ; her captain, mate,
and boon companions of the crew are here
carousing. See them in their great flapping
hats, their yellow belts, their big jack-boots,
their spiked beards, and moustaches curled to
their piratical eyes, roaring out some song of old
Spain, with goblets before them filled with a
vintage of which we, a debased posterity, can
never know the generous, the magical qualities.
The old villains ! they drank all the fine liquor,
and left us the gout ! "

'' Your picture wants a heroine," said Miss
Grant, laughing.

"Oh," said I, ''I have not forgotten /ler.
She must be yellow-haired ; some Saxon sweetheart,
captured out of an English ship, bound
shall we say to Rio, Miss Grant .^ She has exhausted
the language of entreaty, wept her
glorious eyes dim, and grief as she sits yonder
is eating away her trembling little heart as she
listens with a loathing ear to the deep-throated
housings of the black-browed oysters, as they
sit clinking their silver flagons a^ that very table
there, perhaps ! The Lord preserve us ! what
a brush has fancy — to one's own intellectual

eyesight, I mean — when her pigments are such
realities as yonder bedstead, those high-backed
chairs, those queer-looking frying-pans, in which
many a hearty turtle-steak has hissed, many a
Friday's absolving fare of fish has spluttered !
But to be serious, Miss Grant, will not these
rooms yield us the accommodation we require ? "

She shook her head a little dubiously. '' If
we could remove that gloomy old bedstead — "
she said.

Oh, certainly," I interrupted. '•' A little
hammering of it with one of those muskets
should render it portable. Your hammock will
take its place excellently. Then, with the skylight
casement a bit open for the fresh air it
would let through, and a shawl swung from that
metal rod over the doorway, the room would
provide you with as snug a retreat as any hotel
could offer ; whilst I should make my bed
here " — we were conversing in the room which I
must call the kitchen — " ready at a moment's
notice to interpose, pistol in hand, betwixt that
entrance which your presence beyond will render
sacred, and the villainous bell-ringer, whoever
he may beu

2

*' You do not think of sleeping here to-night,
at all events," she said.

No, since I see how reluctant you still are.
But your health is precious, and mine too is
precious for your sake. A few nights of
exposure to the damp of these moonlit heavens
would, 1 fear, tell upon us both, breed a fever,
afflict us with the ague, disable us by some
sort of sickness, and leave us in a very bad
case indeed. We have to get away from this
island, you know ; and if we design to achieve
our deliverance we must keep well''

Her good sense came to her rescue ; she
perceived the truth of my words, and said she
would do as I wished, only — not to-night.
When that terrible bedstead had been removed
the place would look more wholesome.

^' Whatever I propose," said I, " is with
thoughts of your comfort, your health, your
security chiefly — indeed nineteen times out of
twenty wholly. 'Tis a bitter, hard experience
for you, and would to God I knew how to
soften it, better still how to end it. But the
thing looks us In the face, and we must meet
it as bravely as we can. My part is that of

a protector. If I know myself I shall play
it dutifully."

She glanced at me a moment as if she would
speak, then hung her head to hide the tears
which filled her eyes, whilst she extended
her hand, saying, " I thank you — I thank you,
Mr. Musgrave," just above her breath.

I never recall this strange wild time without
asking myself whether I acted as a true, upright,
high-minded gentleman should towards
this lady, situated as she was, forced by stress
of ocean into intimate association with 'me, at
the mercy of my feelings and instincts as a
man. I did my best. I know that my one
whole-hearted desire was, she should never
suffer an instant's pain, be sensible of a
moment's grief, of the lightest stir of uneasiness,
through this obligation of bare unconventional
companionship with me. I could
summon no better government of thought for
my behaviour than this resolution. But then
her own frank, fearless, beautiful nature helped
me. Her very purity was like a meeting of
my efforts half-way. A little too much of
modesty in her would have constrained me

with a constant sense of embarrassment by
which I might have been led into bidders.
Indeed I have to thank her own heroic, honest
nature for the successful accomplishment of my
desire, that our association on this island
should be as painless to her modesty as a
woman as though the formidable conditions
of our isolation, which forced us close and
bound us, so to speak, together, had been
as stringent as they were indeed relaxing.

I devoted the rest of the afternoon to dismantling
the underground rooms ; again and
again however intermitting the work to repair
to the summit of the hammock for a view of
the sea, but without beholding the least sign
of a vessel, though never could despair have
rendered human gaze more strenuously eager
and searching than mine. The task I had
set myself distracted my thoughts ; yet it was
extremely depressing too. It was as though
we felt there was no help or hope for us, and
that there was nothing for it but to reconcile
ourselves to our miserable lot, and effect the
best settlement upon the island that could be
contrived by persons who were almost wholly

without resources. I caught I\Iiss Grant eyeing
the aged saucepans and frying-pans with an
air of mingled doubt and thoughtfulness, and
then she presently made a little collection of
them, and was going up the steps. I asked her
what she intended to do with the things. She
answered that she meant to clean them ; they
were not fit to use as they were. I looked at
her delicate white hands with a movement of
remonstrance in me, but then I reflected that
occupation of any sort was good for people
situated as we were, and that the soiling or
careening of her hands would be but a very
small matter indeed side by side with the
desperate needs which might presently grow
upon us. But it was with something almost of
a laugh of bitterness that I turned from her
handsome form as she mounted the steps to
the open, and resumed my work. " A pretty
leveller is the sea!" thought L " To think of
this stately and lovely lady, who ought to be
drawing close to her sweetheart, and to the
comforts and refinements of a sunny and
pleasant home, scouring old pots and pans upon
a desert island ; with myself, a gentleman at

ease, forsooth ! a Piccadilly dawdler, knocking
an old bedstead to pieces, as though he had
bound himself apprentice to some old 
merchant, and furbishing up a residence
which even a mole might eye with distrust
! "

Nevertheless, denuded of my coat and waistcoat,
and my shirt-sleeves rolled above my
elbows, I continued to toil manfully, making
very little account of the gloomy thoughts that
weighed on me. With the stock of one of the
muskets I speedily demolished the bedstead,
carrying it piecemeal above, where I found
Miss Grant seated, shaded by an umbrella,
polishing the saucepans and other contrivances
with a wet rag and sand. One showed bright
to her scrubbing, and she watched me with a
well-pleased face as I inspected it. The fact
was, there had come to my mind the story of a
party of shipwrecked people w^io had been
poisoned by eating food cooked in utensils
which they had found in an old house hard by
the spot where they had been cast away, and I
considered our sufferings already too lively to
demand the supplementary punishment of a

deadly stew-pan. However, the kettle was of
iron, and the other things of stout block tin,
and so I went back to my work, leaving her
to go on with hers.

I remember I was sufficiently silly, as I cleared
this cavernous retreat of such grimy furniture
as we did not need, to continue in some small
hope of meeting with something unexpected.
Must I confess it ? I was weak enough to
suffer myself to be haunted by a little dream of
treasure. I was but a young man, with much
of the boy still clinging to me. After all, this
was a sort of adventure to make even an older
heart than mine feel virginal with romantic
fancy. A cave into which the light of day may
not have penetrated for above a century — as
true a copy of a piratical lair as the most ardent
imagination could body forth — into which the
dullest eye could not have peered without
peopling it with a score of spectral things vital
with the colours of imagination, and gathering
a character of substantiality almost from the
odd fantastic surroundings of dim silk and
drapery, of a bedstead that carried one's
thoughts to the great galleon with its bristling

broadsides, and Its mast-long pennons ; of
cutlass, matchlock, and hanger charged with
suggestions of the Portugal, Panama, the
train of mules laden with silver, bracelets of
gold on arms of ebony, and the citadel ram-parting
store-houses of ingots built roof-high
why, 1 say, it was impossible for me, with
such young eyes as I then carried in my headman
though I was in years, to dismantle such
a retreat as this without the sort of hope that
must have set me laughing had it been told tome
of another. But I explored to no purpose.
Floor and wall were solid ; no hint of a trapdoor,
no sign of a secret hiding-place. Whether
the discovery of a chest of bullion, or a sack
full of ecclesiastical furniture in precious ore
would have served to reconcile us to being
marooned, I don't know ; but on looking back
I cannot but think that we deserved some such
reward, and am still weak enough to imagine
that had I hunted more diligently yet, I might
have met with it.

I again examined the charts in the chest,
with the hope of being able to make a guess at
the name or situation of this island, but to no

purpose. Mildew and dirt had done their
work, and the tracings were as indistinguishable
as the black background of an aged
portrait. I let the chest lie as it stood. When
I came to look at the chairs I found them very
finely carved, and old enough to have formed
part of the equipment of a manor in Henry
Viii's time. The part of my work I least
liked that afternoon was the handling of the
mattress. It was a great bloated bed. I laid
it upon the floor, and when I had knocked the
bedstead to pieces, was about to lay hold of it to
drag it up above, when I thought it stirred as
though something were inside it. It was mere
imagination, of course, yet I own that the
fancy so frightened me that I stood staring at
it for some moments like a fool. Then I gave
it a pull to make sure that it was as light as I
had before believed, and not yet being satisfied,
I jumped upon it, trying to make out if I could
feel anything inside with my feet. This I
managed so cleverly that I fell plump over the
odd inflation of the thing just as Miss Grant
arrived for another pan to polish. I saw her
start as I got up, and toss her hands with a

brilliant stare of sudden fear, then she burst
into a fit of laughter.

** Oh, Mr. Musgrave," she cried, laughing
continuously whilst she spoke, and pointing to
the mattress, '' for a moment I actually believed
it was a man that you were wrestling with."

I rose crimson with my fall and with the
exertions I had been undergoing, and said, '' I
believed something was alive inside it."

'' Something alive inside it ! " she exclaimed,
in a tragic voice, with her gravity coming back
to her in a breath, and recoiling a step.

It was now my turn to laugh. '' It's all
right," said I, giving the thing a hearty kick ;
it was mere fancy; but something seemed to
move, and so I jumped upon it." I then
seized hold of it to drag it up the steps, and I
laughed again to see how she ran. She would
have confronted a band of savages, I do believe,
with a resolute face, but this mattress was too
much for her. I did not let go until I had got
it down to the sea, where it floated away
handsomely and sank. It is odd how, in such
a situation as wx were placed in, little things
will affect the imagination. I am sure that had

that mattress remained in the cave, I should
never have been able to occupy, or at all events
to sleep in, the place. I believe I could not
have consigned a dead body to the deep with
graver satisfaction at being quit of it.

There was no chimney to the kitchen, but on

making up a fire of wood, dry grass, and the

sweepings, so to speak, of these rooms, in order

to test the furnace, I found that the smoke

passed out freely through the open skylight,

whilst despite the apparent want of draught,

the fire burnt briskly enough to roast us a leg

of mutton, had we such a thing. I should

have been glad to take up my abode that same

night in these secret chambers, for I could see

my way to as comfortable a bed of leaves and

grass, with a rug for a sheet and another for a

coverlet, as I needed to lie on, with promise

besides of escape from the mosquitoes and the

cold clip of the land-crab's jaws. But Miss

Grant's soft shake of the head determined me

to say no more about It. It was her humour to

sleep another night in the hammock under the

trees, and It was my duty to be near her. I

thought to myself, should the bell toll to-night,

her mind may come more willingly to the underground
shelter tomorrow. For my part it
seemed like mocking at luck to lie all night
with nothing but blue atmosphere betwixt the
trembling stars and one's body, when there was
as good a roof for one as old mother earth
could supply close at hand. But he must be a
clever man who can even dimly guess at but a
portion of what goes to a woman's timidity and-reluctance.


I was mightily glad when sundown came.
The fierce glare of the day striking down out
of the swimming rashness of the skies, and
flowing back in intolerable sheen, like an
echoing of light, if such a thing could be, off
the dazzle of coral sand and silk-smooth water,
made a veritable anguish of the eyesight when
clear of the shadow of the trees. The evening
fell upon us sweet as a blessing, with its dewy
richness and coolness of air, and the hush of
the discordant voices of the island, in a pause
between the ceasing of the cries and screams
of birds, and the small, fierce, sultry concert
of the insects, and the first notes of the crickets,
and the sullen croak of the frogs. We sat or

Strolled, as on the previous night, till the moon
was high, talking of Rio, of what my cousin
would be thinking, of the probable fate of the
Iron Crown, of our prospect of escape, and a
score of such matters. Once, on the sheer
rim of the sheet of glory lying under the
moon, we both thought we could make out a
black speck, and I never could have imagined
how wildly passionate was the desire for deliverance
in us both — so smoothly would we
talk of our rescue, so quiet was the face we
had put upon our distress — until, as we stood
gazing with our hearts in our eyes at the
extremity of the silver wake with the purple
gloom lifting like the banks of a river to it
on either side, I felt her hand in mine trembling,
and damp with the dew of an ungovernable
emotion, whilst on my side my breath came
and went as thick, dry, and difficult as though
a poison worked in me. That it was a ship we
neither of us could say. Sometimes we fancied
we saw it, then it would go, then seemed to
blacken out again into a tiny spot. So dead
was the calm the lightest craft could scarce
have floated the distance of a fathom in an

hour. There was something almost of a
physical burthen to the sensibility in the
profound, starless tranquillity that seemed to
come weighing down with the fine clear dusk
of the night. You almost blessed the crickets
for the rising: and falling of their bell-like
chirping, and bent the ear to the delicate ripple
of surf, for the relief you got out of the soft
simmering noise of it. But let it have been a
ship or fancy, 'twas all the same to us. The
spangled indigo of the dome went down with
its stars to the lustrous sea-line, smoothing it
there to a flawless rim ; and Miss Grant let
fall my hand with a deep sigh, and a sudden
look of grief at me in the moonlight, for which
there was no answer but silence.

However, partly with the wish to distract
her mind, and partly because of the necessity
for such a thing, I thought I would see if there
were any craw-fish to be obtained ; so first of
all I cut a bough from a tree which I had
previously observed to be of a resinous nature,
and on putting fire to it found that it made
just such a torch as I needed. I then fashioned
a shawl into a sort of bag, which I requested

Miss Grant to hold, desiring her also to take
her stand close by the wash of the water on the
beach, ready to pick up and pop into the shawl
such fish as I might have the luck to capture ;
then turning up my trousers to above my knees,
I waded a little distance into the sea, not without
some anxiety regarding my toes, for I knew
there would be plenty of crabs hereabouts, big
and powerful, with the jaws almost of a young
shark in their gripping and cleaving qualities.
The smoky flame of my torch threes a yellow
illumination through the water to the bottom of
it, and after waiting a little I was rewarded by
the sight of several black objects crawling like
lizards to my legs out of the darkness past the
sphere of the sulphur-coloured radiance. I
dipped briskly, and in a few minutes had
chucked a good round score of craw-fish on to
the beach, and as fast as they fell Miss Grant
picked them up, till the improvised bag writhed
to the movements of the creatures as though it
were something living in her hand. She had
recovered her spirits, and called out laughingly
to me that some of these days she would
endeavour to draw my portrait as I then stood,

VOL. II. X

for she could not Imagine a more romantic
scene. Romantic it was, I doubt not, and she
meant what she said, spite of the touch of
banter her cordial girlish laughter gave to her
speech. To see that it was so, one has but to
think of my figure, black to the moonshine on
the water, spite of the yellow tincturing of it
by the flame of the torch ; twin shadows of
me flung by the firebrand and the moonbeam
slightly swaying on the dusky ripple that floated
shorewards Into a mere wire-like breaker, my
companion's fine figure pallid In the showering
of the silver light, but clear-cut too against the
snow-white softness of the sand which went
shelving up behind ; her dark eyes nevertheless
stealing out even to a brief gaze at the
glimmering phantasm of her lineaments ; the
Island background of huddled blocks of
vegetation ; the stars jewelling the fibrine
outlines of the trees ; the sweep of the land
to the hummocks looking mountainous and
remote in the Illusive atmosphere, and then
the smooth plain of ocean glooming out Into
the vast distance with a sudden arrest of It
against the sky, and a stern bending round of

its confines that made the imagination desolate
with the sense of irremediable imprisonment.


There was some labour in the occupation of
dipping for the fish ; but the water circled cool
to my knees, the breath of it too floated
refreshingly to the face, and flinging away the
smouldering remains of my torch I waded
ashore brisk as from a bath and lighted
a cigar with immense relish of the fumes of the
tobacco. I dropped the bundle of craw-fish
down the hole that led to the underground
rooms, and sat for a long while with Miss
Grant ; our camp-stools in the heart of the
ivory whiteness of the tract on which I had
slept last night, and on which I was again to
sleep. Occasionally my companion would look
a little nervously towards the forest. Now
that the silent night had come, thoughts of the
mysterious bell-ringing troubled her afresh.
Since It was impossible for the bell to ring
itself, she said, it must have been tolled by
human agency of some sort. No bird or beast
alighting upon or thrusting against it could
have produced the varied ringing we had heard,

X 2

and consequently she was certain there was a
man hidden in the wood,

"Why should he hide ?" said I, wanting to
reassure her, for some hours of moonlight and
gloom yet lay betwixt us and the daybreak.

For fear of us, perhaps," she answered.

If that be so," said I, " would not he be
mad to make his presence known by ringing the
bell ? " She could not answer this. " Besides,"
continued I, "where would he hide himself?
I searched the forest pretty narrowly. 'Tis true
he might have a lodging in the hollow of a tree,
but you can't reconcile any motive that a man
would have in concealing himself, with his lusty
ringing of a bell at midnight — raising about the
most alarming clamour that human ingenuity
could hit upon."

Then, Mr. Musgrave, you wish me to
believe that the bell rang of its own accord, or
that it was struck by some spirit hand ? "

This silenced me in may turn. For my own
part, I could not make head nor tail of the
matter, though, spite of the clear expression of
human agency that I had found in the changes
of the performance of the mysterious bell-ringer,

I would have been willing to bet all I was worth
that I was the only man on that island, as Miss
Aurelia was the only woman. But it was not a
thing to bother ourselves too much about. It
was an odd ocean puzzle, which grew a bit wild
with the deepening of the night, and the thickening
out of the dusky shadows of the little
forest to the westerly drawing down of the moon.
But my mind was too greatly worried with other
considerations to give it heed enough to render
me restless on its account.

Whilst we sat conversing I spied the black
shape of a turtle creeping out of the creek, with
the moon sparkling in the wet of its shell.
"I must have that lady," said I ; "she looks
but a tortoise, and a small one at that." I
fetched the hand spike I had manufactured that
day to prize open the skylight casement in the
sand, and then waiting till the creature had put
a good distance between it and the water's edge,
I made for it, and with more dexterity than I
should have believed myself capable of, I slipped
my pole fair between the flippers, and with a
hearty spring turned the thing fair on to its
back. I then opened my knife and cut its

throat, feeling as remorseful through the horror
of the needful operation as a conscience-stricken
murderer, despite my perceiving how needlessly
inhuman It would have been to let the poor
creature He all night in the torment of Its capsized
posture, only to decapitate It next morning after
all. It was a small hawk's-bllled turtle, I believe
weighing less than one hundred pounds,
or I should never have been able to deal
with it single-handed. I returned with a guilty
feeling of blood upon my head to Miss Grant,
and told her what I had done.

*' How shipwreck — to call our condition shipwreck,"
said I, — " forces one's hand ! I should
have thought myself no more capable of murdering
yonder creature than of slaughtering an
ox. How much of what Is Ignoble, of what is
purely animal, comes out of one in stresses of
this kind ! A man, to remain only a little lower
than the angels, should be luxuriously fed and
housed, I think. His vileness grows with his
needs. The nature of beasts remains the same
In essentials, whether they be pursy with food
or mere ribs with famine. But bring human
nature down to such destitution as an open

boat, for instance, expresses, without a crumb
of bread or a thimbleful of fresh water, and
how base, oh, how base it will show in its
instincts ! "

"And all this," she exclaimed, smiling,
'' because you have killed a turtle ! Yet I daresay
your appreciation of the god-like qualities
of man in you would not suffer through your
chasing a hare, in company with twenty horsemen,
over miles of ground, or killing a long
afternoon by shooting at harmless little pigeons."
She rose. " It is too late to provoke you to an
argument," she continued ; '•' what is the time,
Mr. Musgrave.^"

I brought the face of my watch to the moonlight.
'* Twenty minutes past twelve," said I.

'' Have you my pistol ? "

I had it in my pocket. I loaded, primed, and
handed it to her ; she adjusted it in her belt as
on the previous night, then removed her hat,
and gave me her hand, as her manner always
was ere retiring to rest. I pressed my lips toit
in the old-fashioned salute, grieved to the
heart to think of the hardships that had befallen
this brave and beautiful girl, and deeply moved

too by the pathos I found in her uncomplaining
acceptance of our sorrowful and seemingly
hopeless condition.

When she was fairly in her hammock, I rigged
the mosquito-curtain over her, and turned away
from the beauty of her face, complexioned to
marble by the transparency under which she
lay, with a feeling that made me almost wild at
heart for a little with the sense of betrayal of
the trust whose obligation, confound it ! grew
more imperious in proportion as it taxed my
weakness. I threw a rug upon the sand, rolled
up a coat for a bolster, saw to my pistols, threw
the mosquito-net over my head, and lay down.
This was our second night on the island. I
felt the solitude of the place and the dismalness
and melancholy of our look-out far more keenly
than I had on the previous day. There was
something of novelty about our situation during
the first few hours which worked with a little
quality of buoyancy in the spirits ; but that was
gone, and there was nothing now between the
heart and the crushing burden of imprisonment.
The fire-flies swarmed in brilliant constellations,
the tingling horn of the mosquito sounded shrill

against my ear, odd midnight notes of dreaming
fowl broke Into the silence out of the inland
dusk, down upon the ivory of the creek side lay
my slaughtered turtle, with a look in it of a
great stain of ink upon the moon-whitened sand
that importunately and unpleasantly sent my
thoughts straying away to the murder of Mr.
Bothwell and the ugly blotch on the cabin-floor.
The brig, the mutineers, the loss of
Gordon and the men, Breakwater's mysterious
disappearance — why, these were things already
growing dream-like, so heavy was the thrust
this last experience of ours gave even to the
freshest memories, sending the latest incidents
reeling back into a sort of antiquity, till, on my
oath, it seemed as long as twenty years ago
since we had embarked on the Iron Crown in
the Downs. How were we going to escape ?
If we lifted no hand to help ourselves, what was
to become of us ? Yet, great Heaven, I thought
to myself, mechanically eying the soaring of a
cloud of fire-flies till they looked to dance into
the stars and make a green and silver whirlpool of
the firmament just over my head, by the mingling
of their phosphor with the diamond points past

them, how is a man to deal with timber which
he has neither saw nor chopper to level it with ?
What sort of ark is he going to contrive when
he is as destitute of all appliances for building
such a thing as he is of knowledge of what to do,
though he had the conveniences of a shipwright's
yard within hopping distance of him ?

I was restless and hot, and was in the act of
sitting up with the design of lifting the mosquito-curtain
high enough to bring a cigar to may lips,
when the bell hidden away in the blackness
behind us began to toll.

There, Mr. Musgrave ! There it is again ! "
cried Miss Grant almost hysterically, and in a
breath she had sprung from her hammock and
was alongside of me, with her hand on my
shoulder, listening. The ringing was much
the same as on the night before — first a slow and
solemn tolling, making one think of some
mortuary bell timing the melancholy pacing of
a funeral winding along a cyprus-shadowed path
to an ugly rent in the earth ; then after a pause,
as though the ringer had halted to refresh himself
with a drink, a hasty clattering, a most
alarming, clamorous vibration ; then the 



like chiming again, followed on by all sorts of
beatings, fast and slow.

"Will you say nozi>,'\ cried ]\Iiss Grant,
holding my hand tightly, "that there is no
man there ? "

"Be it man or devil," I exclaimed, "ghost
or goblin, it is a riddle we must solve for our
peace' sake. Wait you here."

What do you mean to do ?" she cried, still
clinging to me.

Why, since it is impossible to see, let drive
in the direction of the sound anyhow, and listen
for some squeal to follow, that we may know
the ringing is not an hallucination ; for I protest
to Heaven, the incredibility of such a thing is
enough to make one think one's self mad for
hearing it."

She dropped my hand, and I walked towards
the trees with a pistol in either fist. She
followed me however, holding her own little
weapon, but the dense tangle, I knew, would
stop her presently. I had no intention of
penetrating the wood by the road I had taken
when the morning shone brilliant. If it
were dark then, it would be blacker than

thunder now, which necessarily increased the
astonishment I laboured under at hearing the
bell ; for unless the thing that rang it lived
within a pace of it, its power of being able to
find it amid that blackness was as astonishing
as the sound itself Yet all this while the
chimes continued. Whatever the ringer might
be, its mood seemed merrier on this than on
the last night. It rang heartily, with a curious
suggestion of enjoyment in the sound produced.
The disturbed birds sent a hundred remonstrant
cries, yells, and whistling from the trees, which
apparently merely increased the appetite of the
ringer for his labour, for 'tis not in mortal pen
to express the preternatural wildness, melancholy,
and I may say horror of the sound of
that secret ringing echoing through the island
out of the central midnight fastness, and dying
away in ghostly tones far out upon the silent
sea. I was as angry as I was bewildered.
The character of the sound staggered my
doubts of there being a man there. It seemed
impossible that anything but a human hand
should produce such noise. Closely followed
by my companion, I skirted the trees to that

thin scattering of them whence I had emerged
after my morning's hunt, and where I had
tripped over the ring in the sand. Methought
from this point I could better collect the
bearings of the bell. Miss Grant soon came
to a stand. Her clothing rendered the growth
impenetrable by her.

'* Oh, if I were only dressed as you are,
Mr. Musgrave ! " she exclaimed, in a voice so
charged with bitter vexation that It was almost
like hearing her sob. " Do not venture too
far. Be cautious, for my sake. What shall I
do If I am left alone here ? "

"I will not go far," said I; 'stand you
in this black shadow. In the haze of the moon
you will be able to see anything that may run
this way. Let fly at it, will you, should it
come. Only please take care not to shoot me. '

With that I left her, and drove wltli drudging
steps through the coarse wiry undergrowth,
helped somewhat by recollection of the road
I had taken in the morning, and aided also
by the sound of the bell. From the whole
area of the island the concert of the crickets
rose in a volume of chirruping ; the croaking

of the frogs was distracting ; everything seemed
awake, and nothing could be imagined more
confounding than this sweep of multitudinous
noise, closing to one's very ear as it seemed
with the notes of unseen things crying out
of the grass upon which one trod, and from
the near hidden trunks of trees, and the stoop
of the dusky boughs overhead.

However, I had not advanced fifty paces
when I found further progress impossible.
There was no question however that the
chimes came from the bell I had inspected
in the morning, so I levelled a pistol at the
blackness in the direction whence the sounds
were coming, and fired. The trees all about
me glanced out yellowly to the flame ; the
bell instantly ceased ; but one had to listen to
make sure, so deafening was the noise among
the branches of the terrified creatures roosting
up there. I levelled a second pistol, and
fired assail, with a renewal of the distraction
outbreak overhead, rolling in a wave of discordant
uproar, so wild with intermingling of
tropic throats, with single near yells, groans,
snores, gasps, and pipings, following as it

were in the wake of the rushing clamour, that
the effect upon the hearing defies language.
I waited a little, eagerly hearkening. The
ringing had ended. The forest noises died
away, and in a few minutes you heard nothing
but the familiar croaking and chirrupings,
chiefly out in the open. There were too
many trees in the road to render it likely
I had hit the ringer ; indeed I had not fired
with that idea. But I thought that whatever
it was that rang the bell might come sneakingly
my way, and I strained my hearing for
any sound resembling the rustling of the coarse
growth pressed by the foot ; but nothing of
the sort was audible, so I returned to Miss
Grant, and walked with her back to where the
hammock was.

Well, it was a mystery not to be solved
by wondering at it. I own I slept but little
that night through thinking of it, whilst bliss
Grant next morning confessed that she had not
closed her eyes.

END OF VOL. IL

LONDON AND Bungalow

THE
UNIVERSITY'
or ILLINOIS

RSImar

V.3

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/marooned03russ

MAROONED

VOL. Ill

BY

W. CLARK RUSSELL

AUTHOR OF " THE GOLDEN HOPE," " THE WRECK OF THE ' GROSVENOR,
THE LADY MAUD," " A SEA QUEEN," " JACk'S COURTSHIP,"
THE FROZEN PIRATE," ETC., ETC.

Maroon — To put a person ashore on an uninhabited island

Nautical Dictionary

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL III

Horton
MACMILLAN AND CO.

AND NEW YORK


The Right of Translation and Reproduction is Reserved

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

I SHOOT THE Bell-ringer I

CHAPTER II.

A GALE OF WIND 55

CHAPTER III.

A STARTLING APPARITION 85

CHAPTER IV.

WE LEAVE THE ISLAND 125

CHAPTER V.

A DAY OF PERIL 1 53

CHAPTER VI.

PAGE

RESCUED 195

CHAPTER VII.

ABOARD THE ORPHAN 23I

CHAPTER VIII.

WE QUIT THE ORPHAN 251

CHAPTER IX.

HOME 278

CHAPTER I.

I SHOOT THE Bell-ringer.

Indeed, this mysterious midnight bell-ringing
was a puzzle that presently threatened to render
the island solitude desperately uncomfortable
whilst the sun was up, and absolutely hideous
when he had gone down. It was time it was dealt
with some way or other. A few more such nights
as the two we had passed might play havoc
with jNIiss Grant's nerves ; and our loneliness
and helplessness were already so extreme that
one felt it might presently go hard with one's
brain if the paralyzing conditions of being
marooned were to be supplemented by an element
of mystery nicely calculated to finish off

VOL, HL B

in the intellect the work which grief, suffering,
and despair had begun.

So when the morning came I slipped away
for a plunge, feeling the need of a refreshment
of that kind, after lying long in my clothes upon
the powdery dust of my sandy couch ; then
returning, and asking Miss Grant to spread a
lite breakfast for us meanwhile, I clapped my
pistols into my pocket, and plunged into the
wood. I steered a pretty straight course for
the bell, looking earnestly about me as I thrust
my way along ; and when I arrived at it, I
stood surveying it for several minutes, wondering
if the problem of the ringing was to be
solved by an explanation that should be ridiculous
for its simplicity when hit upon. But not
the ghost of a solution offered. No ; some
hand — man's, beast's, or ghost's — must have
rung the thing. I touched it, and it swung so
heavily and stiffly that it was impossible any
bird, even the biggest on the island, alighting,
could have swayed it to the emission of a
single chime. I peered curiously at the adjacent
trees, but witnessed no sort of hollow
in which anything of bulk could hide itself. I

stared searchingly round for mark of human or
any other tread, for hint of subterranean habitation,
for any sign, in short, to resolve me
this bewildering mystery ; but the scene, to as
far as I could see, was as bare of such suggestion
as I sought as the bell itself. I considered
for a minute whether I should return
for a musket and beat down the green and
mouldering frame, but on peering close at the
bell I observed that it was suspended to an iron
hook in the gallows-like beam. This gave mean
idea, and putting my hands to the bell I
lifted it off its hook and placed it upon the
ground. 'Twas a tolerably heavy piece of
metal, though not so weio^htv but that I could
easily carry it. There has been so little change
for centuries in the fashion of bells, that no
man could have told how old this one was by
the look of it. No doubt I was right in
reckoning it to have been a ship's bell. Its
sonorous notes may have been reverberated in
its time by the long-ago-vanished timbers of
a carrack, or some tall ship belonging to old
Spain or England.

I was for letting it lie, but thought, no ! for

B 2

the thing that hammered it last night may have
sense enough to sing it afresh and worry us as
before ; so I seized hold of it and succeeded in
staggering with it painfully out of the wood,
the thing occasionally tolling in a very melancholy
way to the swaying of my figure as I
lurched through the knee-high tangle. I
succeeded in lugging it to where our luggage
was, and sat down hot as fire and pretty
nearly spent.

•' There," said I, " if the bell-ringer has a mind
to enjoy himself to-night, he'll have to show
himself, and if he does I'll pot him, if I never
forgive myself for his murder afterwards."

One wants to know the cause," she returned,
peering at the bell much as she had at the
mattress when I told her I believed it moved ;
"this is the effect only. The mystery will
remain the same although the bell may not
ring."

May not ! Should there be any further
ringing to-night," said I, " I vow to steadfastly
believe in ghosts for the rest of my life. As
for the mystery, what we want is to be able to
sleep when we lie down. It will be nothing

to me what made the noise, providing we don't
hear it. Of course the puzzle is a supreme
one, but that need not signify. We shall be
sailing away before long, please God, and it
will be something for us to be able to boast
about in such an age as this, that the villains of
the Iron Crown marooned us on an enchanted
island."

She looked pale and worn, her eyes were
listless, but this might have been owing to want
of sleep, and to the harassment of fretful semi-superstitious
thoughts ; yet the set of her
beautiful mouth showed a spirit of resolution
staunch in her still. The refreshment that was
to be obtained by privacy I felt would help her,
and I resolved to devote the morning to conveying
her luggage to the inner chamber, to
suspending her hammock, and to isolating the
little room by draping the door that led to it.
Speaking from experience, I know that the
misery of such a situation as ours is to be
lightened not a little by the comfort of a shift
of garments, by a plunge in the blue water, and
the like. Robinson Crusoe dwells at large
upon the sweetness of the feel of a clean shirt.

It looks but a light stroke, yet It is as deep a
touch in its way as any of the best of the others
in which Defoe's marvellous romance abounds.

After breakfast I climbed with her to the
summit of the little hill. It was all bare sapphire
sea, streaked here and there with long
shining curves like a running of quicksilver
on the surface. The sky was brilliantly blue
and cloudless, the wind a faint, parched draught
from the north-east ; the bite of the sun upon
the exposed flesh was as though his beam
touched the skin through a burning glass. It
was insupportable, and we descended the
hummock, my companion pale and silent, I
sick at heart ; for though I had not dared hope
to see anything, yet the fulfilment of such
an expectation as this brings a rage and grief
with It, as of madness almost, with every
recurrence, though you should look for a ship
fifty times a day, and always be sure In your
soul before lifting your eyes that you will see
nothlncr.

Can it be possible," exclaimed Miss Grant,
that no ship ever passes within sight of this
Island ? "

''' Don't let us think that," said I, " for a longtime
yet, at all events. We only came ashore
here the day before yesterday. The speck that ,
floated last niofht on the rim of the moonlight
might have been a sail. This island lies very
low, and there is plenty of ocean beyond the
line of it all round us, so that a vessel might be
within four or five leagues of us without seeing
this Cay or we her."

But there is land down in the west, mr.
Musgrave ? "

'eyes, the film of it, so the men said, was
visible from the Iron Crown's cross-trees."

'then," said she, "that stretch of water
yonder must be a passage between this island
and the land there ; so that a sail ought to be
visible now and again."

The mischief lies," cried I, "in my not
knowing where we are. Those days of thick
weather, with a head wind and some sort of
current of which I knew nothing, threw me all
adrift ; not to mention old Breakwater's chronometer,
which in my opinion just ticked close
enough to Greenwich time to tell him when the
hour for another glass of grog had come round.

Of course, this island is one of the Bahamas.
There is sure to be shipping hereabouts, making
for the West Indies, or the Panama or
Mexican sea-boards, or steering eastwards for
European ports. We must be content to goon
waiting and hoping. We have the materials
ready stocked for a great smoke, and who
knows but that before even sundown to-day
we may be safe on board some craft, bound
to a port whence we may easily make our
way to Rio ? "

This was a fancy to put a little light into
her face. " I suppose," she exclaimed suddenly,
with a slanting glance at me as though she
could not summon courage to look at me fully,
you would never again undertake to escort a
girl to her sweetheart ? "

Why should I ? " I answered, wondering at
the meaning of the very faint smile that hovered
airily as a shadow about the beauty of her lips.
It is thankless work, after all."

Indeed, you may say that," she exclaimed.

Oh, understand me. I don't mind the
horrors of a muttering experience, or of being
marooned. No, there may be a companionship

sweet enough to neutralize the direst conditions.
I mean, 'tis going through a very great deal,
you know, to oblige another."

Poor dear Alexander," she cried, '' he will
feel obliged, I know ; at least — " she paused
suddenly with a reining in of her speech that
made her cheeks flush somewhat to the effort.
She struggled with an instant's confusion of
mind, and then asked me calmly what I proposed
to do that day, and what help she could be tome,
but I saw in her eves that she was still
under the surprise of the thought whose utterance
she had narrowly arrested. I could have
sworn that she had only just saved herself from
saying something which she would rather have
bitten her tongue in halves than express. I
looked at her again for a moment or two before
answering ; she was gazing seawards, as though
the question she had this instant put was gone
from her memory. Something in her manner —
a subtlety as indeterminable as the aroma
floating into the hot still air out of the hearts
of the thousand secret and nameless flowers
scattered throughout the island — quickened my
breathing, till I broke with a start from a fancy

that might have held me profoundly meditative
for the rest of the day, and told her what I
meant to do.

But is there nothing for me ?" she inquired,
bringing her eyes to mine, though I seemed to
miss the peculiar, familiar steadfastness that I
had again and again found as fascinating as it
was perplexing.

'' Can you cook, Miss Grant ? "

She clasped her hands, sunk her head with a
little shake of it, and said, '' Not nicely, I fear."

I said, " You will not mind trying your hand
at a dish of turtle soup ? "

How is it made ? "

*' Why," said I, " by boiling the meat, I suppose.
It will be something to do. Then there
are those craw-fish. I'll make a start by lighting
the kitchen fire."

I forthwith fell to work to collect a quantity
of wood, which I carried to the furnace, where
it was soon blazing merrily, with the thin blue
smoke of it passing fairly out through the skylights,
which I took care to open to their fullest
extent ; so that though at the start the smoke
set me coughing a bit, the atmosphere all round

the spiral volume was presently clear enough to
enable me to breathe without inconvenience.
Indeed, I learnt from this subterranean kitchen
how our forefathers had managed without
chimneys, a matter that must have puzzled me
all my life had I not observed how this smoke
going straight and clean to the roof formed a
cloud there that drained away through the skylight
as cleverly as if its vehicle had been a
smoke-stack. I then filled the vessels we had
discovered in the cave with fresh water, and
put on a big saucepans to boil. 'Twas roasting
work, what with the fire inside and the sun out,
and I had to strip to my shirt and trousers, with
a big straw hat for the protection of my head,
though there were several times even then when
I came very near to fainting. Meanwhile, to
make sure of something to eat, I popped half-a-dozen
of the craw-fish into the saucepan, and
then knife in hand went down to the turtle ;
but was a very long while indeed coming at
the inside of it. It was like jobbing at a man
in armour ; but the secret dawned upon me after
many experiments, though I confess I never
fell to any work that was more distasteful to mein

my life. That the sun might not corrupt my
turtle, I dragged it at the expense of many
groans and much perspiration to the entrance of
the underground rooms, down which I tumbled
with it as though marooning had converted me
into a sort of ant ; and indeed I felt like one, I
can assure you, as I painfully dragged my prey
to the hole and staggered with it into subterranean
gloom.

I see now with the eye of memory the stately
and beautiful figure of Miss Grant stepping
from the furnace, as I call it, after a peep at the
humming saucepan, to the short length of passage
for the cool of the shadow, though there
was no breath of air to descend. I had left
her at work when I went on one of my errands
to the brook, or to the turtle, habited in her
long dress, the clinging folds of which, with a
yard-long measure of it trailing astern, I saw-must
bother her presently, and I looked forward
to the pleasure of helping her pin her gown
clear of her feet ; but on my return I found
that she had divested herself of the dress, and
that her attire now was an under-skirt of brilliant
hues. I imagined she had changed her

gown, so ignorant was I of the mysteries of
ladies' apparel, and thought that never could
any sort of female garb more gracefully harmonize
with any particular kind of beauty than
did this short, richly-coloured frock, as I supposed
it, with the fine form of Miss Grant.
I've heard it said that the Spanish are the only
ladies in the world who can walk, all others
waddle, glide, amble, do anything in short but
step with a proper sort of grace. 1 might
believe this after recalling the gait of the ladies
I have known, and contrasting them with Miss
Aurelia's — another maternal legacy, no doubt,
as I might suppose now that there was sufficient
disclosure of her movements to enable me to
appreciate the perfection of their freedom and
their Inimitable, easy, gentle dignity. She had
removed her hat ; the furnace flames tinctured
her soft hair with their yellow hue ; and in the
subdued shadowing of the room her eyes looked
to have recovered their earlier brilliance. Her
arms were bare to the elbow — limbs of moulded
ivory. I stood at gaze for some moments, as
startled by this new revelation of her charms
as I had been on the day when I had hast met

her. I know this dwelling upon a girl's perfections
in the face of the acres of paper which
have been covered again and again with like
accounts is but poor work, and can but make
tiresome reading ; but one is not often marooned
with such a woman as Aurelia Grant, and seeing
even then how it vas with me in my
thoughts of her, I ought to be forgiven for this
trick of pulling out her likeness, and asking 3'ou
just to look at It once more.

By noon I had managed to transport the
luggage to our underground home, lightening
the burthen of the larger boxes by conveying
parcels and bundles of their contents In my
arms. I also took care to bring the bell along
and place it In the kitchen, on the left of the
entrance, where It was out of the road ; and It
will be strange, thought I, as I gave It a benedictory
kick. If anything resembling this blessed
thing torments us again to-night. My next
business was to drape the entrance of the room
that Miss Grant was to occupy. I had slung
her hammock, spread rugs to serve as a carpet,
and put a couple of high-backed chairs Into the
apartment ; so that with the boxes convenient

to her hand, and the sunshine streaming fair
upon the skylight, and flooding the atmosphere
with Its radiance, whilst the tropic perfumes
floating heavy and languid above came sifting
down to sweeten the air, as though you should
have wafted a nosegay of flowers there, the odd,
earthy chamber looked positively habitable. The
entrance was low, and a single shawl effectually
served as a curtain.

"Yonder turtle-shell," said I, pointing to the
creature I had killed, " when cleaned out and
purified will make an excellent hand-basin.
You have a looking-glass, and all other toilet
requisites, as the hairdressers call the things.
As matters are, Miss Grant, we might be worse
off. Better surely this roof than the two trees
'twixt which your hammock swung. Confess
now that you have no longer any reluctance intaking
up your abode here ? "

She smiled, casting her eyes over the room
with a glance at the skylight ; and I observed
the tremble of just a little faltering of resolution,
so to speak, in the delicate pout of her underlip



I have one small misgiving," she answered.

'what is it ?" I asked.

Suppose there should be a man on this
island ? "

*' Well ? "

You don't believe there is ; but somebody
must have rung the bell."

'' And supposing there should be a man ? "
said I.

She shot another glance at the skylight,
and answered, "He might shut us up down
here."

How ? " I asked.

Why, Mr. Musgrave, by closing the skylights,
and covering them with sand, and then
putting the cover on to the opening, and piling
sand on that too."

Well," said I, smiling, for my mind had
long since got rid of the fancy that there might
be a man somewhere hidden, though, as I admit,
the midnight ringing was all the darker asa
puzzle to me for that very notion, " there is
but one way of checkmating the skulking rogue,
assuming him to be of flesh and blood, and I'll
attend to it immediately lest it should escape
me," and mounting to the open, armed with one

of the old muskets, I hammered at the hatch-cover
until it lay before me in several pieces.
These I carried one by one below, for the
hatch was not to have been squeezed through
the opening in its entirety, and stowed the fragments
hard by the bell. '' Now," said I, "your
friend the ringer may indeed close the skylights,
but it will put him to his trumps to cover that
entrance. Think — there is nothing on the
island that would serve him for such a purpose,
unless he should cut down a tree, and whittle
out a balk of it as a cork for that mouth. No,
Miss Grant, little risk I think of our being
buried alive."

My talk and the knocking to pieces of the
hatch-cover reassured her, and as we might
hope now that our turtle-broth had been boiling
long enough, we prepared the little rustic table
for dinner, and put on it a bottle of wine, a (qw
biscuits, the remains of a tin of meat, the cooked
craw-fish, along with a big bunch of plantains
I had cut after bathing. But alas ! we had but
one knife between us, no forks, spoons, nor
plates. How then were we to ladle up the
soup ! Hitherto we had eaten with our fingers

VOL. III. c

and drunk from a meat tin ; but the broth
demanded an effort of Ingenuity.

I have It," I exclaimed, and stepping Into
the sunshine I made my way to the beach,
where, collecting an armful of shells, big and
little, I carried them to the brook, thoroughly
cleansed them of the sand and salt, and returned
with them to the kitchen. Better soup-plates
than the large shells made we could not
have desired, and the smaller shells made excellent
spoons. How the soup relished It boots
not to say. Wanting salt, herbs, and the like,
It lacked perhaps the savourlness that a City
alderman Is accustomed to meet with In a
potage of turtle, but the meat proved juicy, and
the liquor grateful enough In its way, and
though, to be sure. It was a sort of mess that
I could not look at now, I swallowed it then
with enjoyment and appetite, giving secret
thanks to Heaven that there was plenty more
of It.

It is quite likely that any Jack coming ashore
to peer about, discovering these underground
rooms, and looking down Into them, might have
taken Miss Grant and myself for a corsair and

his leman. The rich dyes of her petticoat made
her apparel romantic to the eye, and the poetic
suggestiveness of her attire was heightened yet
by the free graces of her roughened hair, and
her fair and most shapely arms bare to the
elbow. I, habited In shirt and trousers, needed
but a red sash round about my loins to present
a very fair copy of a pirate. It was entirely In
keeping too that we should appear as though
we were feasting, and the picture would have
been faithful enough, I doubt not, to the liveliest
Imagination, of a piratical lair, coloured as
it was with details of aged muskets and cutlasses,
the venerable cooking utensils, the two century-old
chairs, the queer, aged, straddling table at
which we sat, if, instead of lifting shells to our
lips, my lovely companion and I had been able
to pledge each other in cool sparkling draughts
from richly-chased goblets of precious metal.
In truth, what the picture wanted to complete
It was a hint of plunder. Miss Grant's sparkling
rings were but a meagre intimation in that
way. You would have looked for a golden
candle-stick or two, a silver crucifix, a sack
In a corner bulged into a glittering yawn

c 2

at the mouth by the pieces of eight which
filled it.

'' This is a sort of experience," said I, '' which
a man should need to be very young indeed to
enjoy. One should be quite a little boy to
think it fine. Yet I am realizing the dreams
of millions of small lads. To think of being all
alone with a beautiful lady upon an uninhabited
island — to live in a cave that in bygone years
resounded the revelry of the sea-robbers again
and again — to have within arm's-reach several

o

of the exact sort of muskets which Crusoe carried
on his shoulder — to live upon turtle and
plantains, with the delightful prospect of having
some day to fell a tree and scoop out a canoe —
oh ! the bliss to countless small boys of such
realization ! What spasms of envy would thrill
through the schools of Great Britain were the
young friends of the old Whackums to learn
that at this moment there was a young gentleman
in company with a young lady living In a pirate's
cave In an island hard by the Spanish Main."

I am afraid school-boys would not envy
you quite so much as you think," said she ;
"they do not greatly value ladies' society

either In books or In life. To be cast away
with a beautiful female — to be marooned even
with a lovely princess, and live all alone with
her In a cave — " She shook her head, laughing
quietly. " Xo, mr. ^lusgrave, If I know
boys at all, they would not thank you for such
an experience. Give them guns and canoes
and pirates' caves, with plenty of oranges ; but
no girls, If you please."

'* It Is strange that little boys should ever
make men," said I, going to my coat for a
cheroot. "I am not very old myself, yet I
find it difficult to believe that I could ever have
been younger than sixteen. Would to Heaven
that the light and colour and fancy of childhood
attended us to the end ! 'Tis miserable
to have to sail out of a glowing horizon into
the gray of the middle sea, and thence onwards
yet to gloom. It Is Byron, I think, who asks
who would not be a boy again. Not I, for one,
unless I could remain so. If a man has to turnout,
it is better he should get up at once and
have done with It. I love a sweet dream as
fondly as any, but since the awakening Is inevitable,
don't delay It, say I ; and then let the

vision pass away for good. Who would live
again through a mere phantasy, knowing It to
be such ? For those who IncHne that way we
build lunatic asylums. No, I wouldn't be a
boy again. The opening of one's eyes upon
the reality don't make it worth while, as the
tailor says when you offer him less for his coat
than he can cut it for."

She listened to me with her cheek resting
in her hand, her figure Inclined, the swell of
it methought gathering a particular beauty
from the white of the arm on which her head
reposed, her dark eyes fixed on mine with a
hint of mingled merriment and puzzled inquiry
in their serene scrutiny. But when I ceased
she changed her posture, removed her eyes,
and with a careless look around, said almost
abruptly, as though the shift of mood in her
was an effort rather than an unconscious transition,
" How are we to get away from this
island, Mr. Musgrave ? You have been a
sailor — is there no remedy for people In our
situation ? I wonder what Alexander would
suggest if he were here."

I lighted my cheroot stolidly. There seemed

to me something insincere, though I protest
I don't know why I should have thought
so, in her speaking of my cousin at that
moment. I eyed her in silence a minute,
and then said, " I believe if Alexander were
here he would take my view of our condition.
There are plenty of trees, but we have no
tools. Had we a chopper we might fell a
trunk, and in the course of months, perhaps
of years, succeed in hacking and hewing the
timber into the aspect of a canoe. But then
how to launch it ? The trunk of a tree, even
when shaped into a canoe, is not to be whipped
under the arm as though it were the model of
a boat and carried to the water. I think if
Alexander were here, Miss Grant, he would
agree with me, that our one chance lies in our
making our presence known to a passing vessel ;
which reminds me," said I, rising and looking
at my watch, " that it is about time I should
take a peep seawards, for it will be some hours
now since I visited the hummock." I was
walking to the steps. 'you do not ask me to
join you," said she. I turned and noted a lookin
her, half wistful, half amused.

'' Do pray join me," I cried ; " I was afraid
-that the heat — "

'' No," she interrupted ; " I expect there will
be nothing to see." I smiled at the coquettish
feigning of gentle resentment in her manner of
drawing aside the shawl that screened her
room. She disappeared, closing the drapery
afresh, and I climbed through the opening into
the sunshine.

My hat was wide-brimmed like that of a
southern planter. It sheltered me as effectually
as an umbrella, and under the shadow of it I
paced leisurely towards the hummock, but
puffing perhaps with unnecessary energy at my
cigar, to certain thoughts of Miss Grant which
rose in me as I advanced. " Pooh ! " thought
I, "what a madman must I be, situated as weare,
to think of anything under this wide blue
sky but our deliverance, and how to effect it ! "

It chanced just then that, my eyes happening
to turn towards the scattering of trees which
came thinning out of the mass of the forest
round to that part of the sand where I had met
with the iron ring of the hatch, I spied, or
seemed to spy, a human . face peering at me

from the midst of a huddle of leaves big enough
to serve for the foliage of a cotton-tree. I
stopped dead like a man transfixed, the cigar I
vas about to raise to my lips arrested midway,
as though my arm had suddenly been
blasted. The light rained in a blue dazzle
betwixt me and the heavily-leafed bough, and
the glare of it obliged me to blink, that on
looking again I might make sure. Yet when I
stared afresh the face was gone. I hollowed
my hands into the form of a binocular glass to
shelter and strengthen my sight, and gazed
again, but there was nothing to be seen saving
the surface of green leaves which seemed to
arch the solid bough they draped, as though
each was of the weight of a giant banana.
It seemed incredible that I should have been
mistaken. The vision, if it were nothing more
substantial, had been that of a swarthy face
with white whiskers, and eyes that might have
been of a reddish tinge, glittering under shaggy
white brows. I listened, but nothing was
audible save the humming, chirruping, and
whistling, which swelled to the ear like the
commingling of the notes of a bagpipe with the

vibratory hum of a church organ. All was
starless in the tree, though I watched it attentively.
I had left my pistols in the kitchen
as I must call it, or I should certainly have
let fly at the branch, and taken my chance
of a murdered man falling out of the foliage
of it. Still thinking it impossible that my sight
could have been deceived, I walked briskly
towards the tree, and looking upwards searched
it as penetratingly as the greenery would permit
; then seeing nothing saving a paroquet
or two, I walked a little further towards the
forest, still gazing upwards, but nothing answering
in the least imaginable degree to the object,
real or imaginary, that had confounded me,
met my eye. I again strained my sight, sending
glance after glance around, then returned
to the open, and proceeded towards the hummock,
satisfied that what I had beheld was a
deceit of the imagination, though this notion
did not help to soothe my secret perturbation.
Unless the man actually lived inside the trunk
of the tree out of whose leaves he had peered,
'twas impossible if he were human to have
escaped the searching gaze I had directed at

the intermingling of boughs. I said to myself
it was some illusion of the sight, some fantastic
creation wrought by the trembling flash of the
sand and the wide blue brilliance of heaven
and ocean upon the ball of the eye. And yet
it was an apparition, too, to so fit the bewildering
enigma of the bell-ringing, that, spite of
my declaring to myself it was fancy, I was
as uneasy as if I had been sure it was real.

However, on . reaching the hummock my
thoughts underwent a sudden and violent
change, for on glancing leisurely along the sea-line,
thinking of nothing but the man's face in
the tree, I caught sight of a ship's canvas down
in the south, like the point of a sea-fowl's pinion,
projecting white as foam and lustrous as pearl
above the horizon. I clapped my hands with
the sudden transport the sight awakened in me,
and without pausing to consider the distance
at which the craft hung, I set fire to the pile of
faggots. There was but the mildest breathing
of air. The wood took some time to kindle,
and then the smoke, darkening and fattening
out in thickness to the green coating of grass
and leaves with which I had covered the

faggots, went nobly straight up to a great height
a grand signal Indeed, as I thought, where It
lazily arched over plume-like and floated softly
Into the east. I stood watching for upwards
of three-quarters of an hour, with my eyes
thirsting for a sign of the growth of the sail,
staring with such tormenting Intensity, that
again and again the vast plain of sea brimming
out to the brassy azure of the sky,
steeping to it streaked with the silver lines of
currents and turquoise-coloured swathes, winding
and dilating and melting Into the richer hue
of the brine, would start as if to spin with
gathering speed round and round, and I had
to blind my sight with my hands to check the
mighty waltz, the first reel of which was as
sickening as a swoon to the brain. I was
alone, and exerted but little judgment, or I
might have guessed that on that stagnant surface
the sail must hover for hours apparently
motionless. Yet It was certain that she had
hove In sight since the morning, that is to say,
since I had last viewed the sea, and either a
faint breeze of wind had brought her to where
she was, or she was a small vessel stemming

the water to the propulsion of her sweeps or
long oars.

The fire was burnt out ; the smoke drained
dimly into the air off the smouldering embers,
and was of no more use as a signal than the
flourish of a handkerchief. Then, after waiting
a little while, and watching as intently as the
heat and glare of the giddy atmosphere, swimming
to the sea from the dazzling brass of the
heavens, would suffer, I could no longer doubt
that the distant vessel was drawing down the
slope into the south-west ; whence, as there was
no wind to propel her, it was certain that she
was being urged by oars. In that case she
would probably be some small brother or
coasting craft.

My disappointment was not so bitter as I
should have expected to find in me at sight
of a ship lingering long enough to wildly
tantalise hope, and then tardily melting out of
view. Maybe I found a large stroke of comfort
in the very vision of her, for now I might
suppose that the speck we had seen in the
wake of moonshine last night, and taken to bea
deception of the fancy, was a real ship after

all ; so that with yonder one we might say that
two sail had hove, in near upon twelve hours,
within reach of our eyes, even from the very low
elevation we occupied. This was as good as
understanding that the sea round about us was
navigable water, that the ocean betwixt us and
the film of land away down west might be a sort
of highway, as Miss Grant had suggested, and
that therefore a ship might at any hour pass
close enough to our little principality of crickets
and parrots to catch sight of our smoke and
send a boat. So, not very greatly disheartened,
I sent another look at the pearl-like fragment
in the south, and making sure now by the airy
blending of it with the azure that the craft was
heading away and would be out of sight presently,
I descended the little hill, purposing
when the cool of the evening came to build
up another fire ready to signal with.

As I approached our secret chambers, Miss
Grant came out of the opening. It was the
strangest sight in the world to see her rising,
as it were, out of the earth ; that was the
impression you got from the flat of the sand.
It put a fancy into me of the resurrection of

the body, followed on by a daintier imagination
of Venus shaping white out of the foam — though
the girl's apparel was a little in the way of that
idea. You saw nothing of the grave-like
hollow, merely the figure of the beautiful girl
that seemed to float up out of the blinding
silver of the sand. Her apparition in this way
was as sweet a surprise as could fascinate the
eye. She had changed her attire, robed herself
in a white gown, dressed her hair afresh,
heaping it on her head, with a wide straw hat
tilted on it like a picture of a beauty in George
the Iii's day.

You have been a long while watching the
sea, Mr. Musgrave," she exclaimed, smiling as
if to the surprise and admiration with which I
regarded her.

'' I have been endeavouring to signal a ship,"
said I.

A ship," she cried, approaching me close,
and staring at me.

"Yes," I answered, 'she will have faded
out by this time like the smoke of my fire.
But no matter. The sio^ht of her Is a warrant
of more to follow. All I have to do is to keep a

bright look-out. We shall be rescued yet, and
soon, depend on it."

We strolled together to the shadow of the
trees where our camp-stools were, and seated
ourselves. For a long time she talked of nothing
but the ship, and I could see, by the flush
in her cheeks and the gathering light in her
eyes, how useful to her spirits was the hope that
my news of having sighted a vessel had brought
with it.

'' We ought to feel grateful to the crew of the
Iron Crown," said she, ^* for having sent our
luggage with us. Oh, Mr. Musgrave, how am
I to express the refreshment of a complete
change of apparel ? It robs the island of half
its terrors."

'' Rather lucky," said I dryly, 'that I kicked
up that iron ring, though it cost me a sprawl.
Is not the privacy of a bed-chamber in such a
place as this almost as nice as a change of
clothes ? "

'well, I didn't like the idea, I confess," she
replied, with a pretty shake of the head. " I
don't like it much yet, I admit. Those tomblike
rooms are very well in the day ; but when

the long dark night comes ! " she added, with a
Hght shiver.

At this I involuntarily turned my eyes towards
the forest, with a glance up aloft and
at the trees beyond, thinking of the demoniacal
white-whiskered old face, with its cairngorm
eyes brilliant in the midst of its swarthy countenance,
that had seemed to peer at me a while
gone. But I would not even' hint at the
possibility of such an apparition. I was still
inclined to reckon it a mere fancy ; besides, I
knew that even though I should vaguely refer
to it as some optical delusion occasioned by a
fantastic writhe of the leaves to the folds of the
hot blue air between, sleep would be murdered
for her that night. Nevertheless, I made up
my mind whilst the sun was still high to put
my pistols in my pockets and search the little
forest afresh ; for, to speak honestly, the memory
of the swart malignant countenance coming
into my mind again rendered me secretly very uneasy,
and I felt, when the night drew down and I
was at rest in the profound stillness of the underground
kitchen, that I should regret not having
made again a careful investigation of the wood.

VOL. in. D

I got up, saying, '' I'll just take another walk
through those trees. Miss Grant. I want to
satisfy myself that there is not a second bell
hidden somewhere in the green thickness. It
would be insupportable, you know, to be
awakened by a new kind of chiming tonight."


"Why should you imagine there is a second
bell?" she asked, with her eyes seeming to
enlarge to the very thought of it.

"I dont imagine there is," said I, "but no
harm can follow another look round ; besides,"
I added, smiling, " I might chance upon the
fellow that has troubled us for the past two
nights, so that even should we be unable to
hang him before sundown, we might seize him
to one of those trees as Breakwater seized the
half-blood to the foremast, and go to our rest
without apprehension of being corked up."

I laughed out to let her suppose that I talked
for talk's sake only, and fetching my pistols
made for the forest, taking the road into it
past the tree in which I had seen the real or
imagined face, waving my hand to her as I
strode into the shadow. And a shadow it was

when you penetrated Into the thick of the trees,
coming as you did from the sultry whiteness of
sand, and the hot radiant stare of the unwrinkled
deep up at the sky that opened and contracted
its atmospheric folds of sapphire as it seemed —
a shadow cool, dark, green, and as slumberous
a spot as one could have pictured, with its
sombre, pillar-like trunks of trees rising out of
the stillness of the tall and prickly undergrowth
Into the cathedral hush of the gloomy density of
boughs and leaves, but for the Incessant splitting
of the silence by the cries, whistling, and
croaking, as familiar now to my ear as the
twitter of the London sparrow, or by the airy
disturbance of the plumes and pinions of birds
rustling on the wing with a sound as of the
rending of satin as they sailed from one
tree to another, brushing the foliage as they
flew.

The direction I was unconsciously following-brought
me, with, some painful thrusting of my
legs — for in places the tangle was as hard and
stubborn as a fence — to the spot where the
gallows-looking frame from which I had unhooked
the bell stood. It was scarce within

D 2

I

view of me when I caught sight of a large hat
placed exactly over the hook from which the
bell had depended. I looked and looked,
greatly amazed, and, let me frankly own, with a
mind for some moments not a little disordered
by consternation. I was of course as sure as
that I lived that no hat was upon the frame
when I had unhung the bell. I stared nervously
around me, mechanically drawing a
pistol from my pocket, and looking first into
one twilight avenue and then into another, then
gazing narrowly at the herbage round about,
afterwards staring overhead, listening meanwhile
intently. I approached the hat by a
step, and inspected it. It was such a piece of
headgear as might have been washed up by the
sea. I raised my hand and pulled it down,
but instantly dropped it, for it was horribly
clammy and cold, and made you think, from the
sensation you got from it, of groping in the
dark and stroking down a dead man's face.
It was apparently a felt hat that had once been
black, but it was now green and bronzed with
time and wet. It was very broad-brimmed,
with a sort of sugar-loaf crown ; much such a

sort of hat indeed as the bo\-s clap upon Guy
Fawkes' head when they carry him off to the
stake. I turned it over with my foot to see
what the inside of it looked like, but it had
long since been divorced from any lining that
may have garnished it in its heyday. It was
old enough indeed both in fashion and aspect
to have belonged to one of the people who
had dug out and used the underground chambers.
But who or what since the morning had
placed it upon that bell-frame ? It gave me a
kind of shrinking feeling, I can tell you, to
think that there might be human eyes watching
me out of some of those green dyes oi shadow
round about, and as I stood there I never
knew from instant to instant but that the hame
of a fire-arm would leap from behind a tree,
or an arrow sling past my ear.

The sight of this hat convinced me that I
had not been mistaken in supposing the wild,
grotesque face I had caught a glimpse of
to be that of a ;nan. bliss Grant was right.
There must be one or more human creatures
in hiding here. The bell could not ring itself ;
the hat had been brought from a distance — I

must certainly have seen It when I first explored
this place, and stood looking from the scaffold
to the grass far as my sight could follow It ;
I say, the old hat had been brought here and
placed upon the frame, and if this did not
signify human agency, then it was not to be
accounted for but by supposing the devil himself
to be at large upon the island. I was
startled, astonished, alarmed, as I believe any
man would have been ; but I was resolved,
nevertheless, not to quit the wood without a
further good hunt, and so pushed on, pausing
incessantly to listen and to look, to kick at some
suspicious huddle of huge blades of aloe-like
growth, to stare into the trees, or to fight my
way to some trunk looming with a yawn in it
in the twilight so as to make one suppose it
hollow. But to no purpose. I believe there
was no part of that forest I did not traverse,
and in all I spent a full hour in making the
rounds of it ; but not the least hint of anything
approaching humanity did I see.

The puzzle was so supreme as to depress my
spirits by the heaviness of the perplexity it
excited ; but I made up my mind to say nothing

about the hat to Miss Grant. I was now as convinced
as she that there were more people than
ourselves on this island, though but one more
only, and I believed that it was his face I had
seen amongst the leaves. All sorts of wild
notions occurred to me as I staggeringly made
my way out of that little forest. It had been
the face of an old man. Was the bell-rino-er
some aged pirate, who had gone mad, and
wandered about the place, living upon such
fruit and herbs as he could grub up, grown
expert in the art of climbing trees, and secreting
himself by such years of practice as had
enabled Selkirk to hunt the goat more fleetly
than the goat itself could run, using the spreading
branch for his bedroom, through not having
intellect enough to hunt after and dick out the
sand-covered portals of his subterranean home ?
Or, thought I, is it conceivable that there are
such things as spirits ? — that the old navigators'
fables about demon-haunted Islands are not the
lies which our scientific age protests them to
be ? Upon my word, thought I, as I broke my
way along with a nervous glance over my
shoulder, how many weeks, nay, how many

days of marooning go to the addling of the
most healthy brains ?

What have you seen, Mr. Musgrave ? "
asked Miss Grant, as I approached her.

Just a parrot or two," said I.

You have been a long while watching
them," said she, eyeing me so attentively that I
feared she would find in my face some small
signs of the astonishment and misgivings which
filled my mind.

'' Oh," I exclaimed carelessly, " the forest is
dark, as you know, and a sheer maze in its way,
with spots where the high guinea grass leans
to you tough and piercing as a crop of bayonets.
I was resolved to hunt the place through and
through, a thing not to be done in ten minutes.
Now, Miss Grant," I went on, with a glance at
my watch, "suppose we go to tea, as I must
call the meal — though for a real homely cup of
tea just now, served up with buttered toast and
a new-laid egg, with a plateful of water cress, I'd
part with every inch of turtle betwixt the shells
I opened this morning. Heaven bless us all, to
what weak desires will marooning reduce a
man ! "

I had to build up the beacon fire again that
evening, and when we had made a meal off some
cold turtle and plantains, a sweet biscuit or two,
and a helpful of sherry, and water fresh and cool
from the brook — a sort of incipient sangaree — I
fell to collecting as much wood as would go to
the making of a great smoke, but the sun had
been sunk some time before I had stacked and
got ready the pile for firing. When I had
made an end of this, I gathered a quantity of
grass and leaves, and took the heap to the
kitchen to serve mee for a mattress by and by.
Ao^ain and ao^ain I looked at the ocean, but it
always stretched out blank, without a tip of
cloud even to quicken the pulse for an instant
with the fancy of a sail. As the evening darkened
into niorht, with the moon rising slow and red
directly in the face of us, where the eastern
sea, black as ink, washed to the huge dull gold
shield of the sulky-looking planet, as though
the orb was some glorified head of land against
whose very face the deep brimmed without a
ripple of breaker, the disquietude raised in
]\Iiss Grant by the prospect of a night underground
increased in her. \ felt her uneasiness

rather than gathered it from her speech ; but it
would have been unkind to us both to humour
her — a mere provoking, in short, of some
wretched tropic distemper — to sUng her hammock
between the trees again, and to make my
bed amonof the land crabs. Indeed, though to
be sure we had passed two nights safely in
the open, the memory of the ugly glimmering
face amongst the leaves, along with the odd
and astonishing sign of the hat would have
rendered the obligation of sleeping out here
again very disagreeable to me, I can assure
you. Why, it was only necessary to fancy
that there was a man on the island to suspect
that he miofht cut our throats if we Have him
the chance. Underground, at all events, we
should feel tolerably secure, by which I mean
that the courage that would bring the wild
creature, whoever he was, to the side of a girl
motionless in a hammock, or to a man slumbering
peacefully on the sand, with his figure clean
cut on the face of the coral dust as though it
were an inlaying of jet, and a very visible mark
therefore for the assassin's knife — I say, the
courage of the mysterious creature might fail

him when It came to his having to seek us ina
dark vault. He knew we were armed, and
though he might have a knife, or spear, or
something of the kind, it was a hundred to one
if he had a musket or pistol, or ammunition for
it at least. So, to my companion's disquiet,
obvious in her fits of thoughtfulness and her
uneasy glances towards the cave, showing
where her thoughts lay, I seemed to pay no
heed.

The night came on very glorious, with the
soaring of the moon, the stars thick strewn,
just stir enough of night air to send the sweet
smells of the dew-washed island flowers lazily
floating to us in folds of aromatic atmosphere,
and a delicate seething of surf to blunt the edge
of the shrillness of the inland concert. To
kill the time, I proposed that we should go
and hunt for turtles' eggs, and we went together
to the creek, keeping a bright look-out
for the impress of the tread of the turtle. But
though we saw marks in the sand which fairly
well resembled the tracks we sought, they led
us to nothing.

"Perhaps," said I, "the turtle doesn't lay in

this month. If I could have foreseen our adventure,
I should have read a little in the natural
history of this part of the world." ~

We continued our search for some time,
probing at the sand, but if there were any eggs
about, they were too cleverly hidden for us to
come at, so we stepped down to the beach,
facing the moon, where there was a clear, long,
white walk, flat, and but a little less hard than a
ship's deck, and paced to and fro for a long
while ; though there was no complete surrender
of ourselves to each other this night as
on former occasions, when she would reflect my
mood, or I hers. The fact is, she could think
of little but the underground bedroom, and I
of the hobgoblin face and the old Guy Fawkes
hat. Indeed my imagination was so wrought
up, that twice when glancing towards the forest
I could have sworn I saw the shape of a man
flit a little way past the two trees where the
hammock had swung ; for the shadows there
wore a greenish faintness of dusk with the
pouring of the moon, and one's sight went a
little way into the block of blackness. But the
hour came round at last when it was time eve

should endeavour to take some rest. Miss
Grant reluctantly walked by my side to the
entrance, looking down a little into the hatch
as though her heart failed her.

Indeed there is nothing to fear," said I.

Oh, but it is like being buried alive," she
exclaimed, descending nevertheless, but with a
quickened breath. I lighted one of the wax
candles and carried it to the inner room, where,
wanting the convenience of a candle-stick, I
stuck it in the mouth of a bottle, earnestly
looking round ' me to see that all was well.
The skylight lay open. I asked if I should
close it.

No," she exclaimed, quickly.

But supposing it should come on to rain in
the night," said I, " an electric storm say, with
a West Indian s /lo we r pouring off the edge of
it ? Besides, the mosquitoes will find their
way in."

I must take my chance," she exclaimed.
If that glass were shut, I should feel as if I
were buried alive."

Then good-night. May God bless you, and
send you refreshing sleep and sweet dreams,"

said I, bringing her cold white hand to my Hps.
My bed will be there," I added, pointing to
the threshold of her door, " so that literally
nothing could enter this room without treading
on my body."

She glanced at the skylight, and looked at
me wistfully, as though she would have me
linger yet. I lifted my hat and quitted the
strange chamber, carefully drawing the curtain
after me.

The moon rode high over the island ; her
radiance lay upon the skylight, and on the
hatchway, as I may call it, and light enough
came sifting in to enable me to see without
a candle. I gathered the dry stuff I had
collected for a mattress close against the shawl
that hung from the doorway of the inner room,
and made me up a bed of rugs, with a rolled-up
coat or two for a bolster. I then carefully
looked to my pistols and placed them on the
floor, one on either hand of me ; which done, I
threw off my boots, removed my light camlet
jacket, and lay down. The skylight was open,
but I needed air, for the atmosphere was close
with the furnace-brickwork that still retained

the warmth of the fires which had been kindled
in it during the day, and since ]\Iiss Grant's
skylight lay open too, it mattered little that
mine should be so ; for, should a downpour
happen in the night — and I knew of old what a
downpour in these parallels meant — the rooms
would be flooded very nearly as swiftly with
one as with both windows to let the wet in.
specially with the entrance gaping like the
mouth of a funnel to vehicle any deluge that
might come. I lay down, I say, but not to
sleep. I could hear Miss Grant moving with
something of restlessness in her pacing, then all
was still in her room ; and I heartily hoped she
would soon forget our situation and her fears
in slumber. The stillness was deep. I had
anticipated a pretty deep hush in these understand
cells, but the reality was oppressive beyond
any kind of breathless repose that I could have
imagined. Not so much as the hum of a
mosquito stirred upon the hearing ; the metallic-like
chirruping outside was a little storm of
noise in its way, I knew ; but not an echo of it
penetrated underground, spite of the open skylight.
I lay musing upon our extraordinary

condition. It was difficult to credit that my
beautiful companion and I were finding shelter
and seeking rest in what was practically as
much a grave as any hole in the earth that
should in God's own time receive our bodies.
Up above in the moonlight, with the spread of
the sea widening out black from the shaft of
silver in its heart, the trees overhead, the stars
beyond, the innumerable voice of insect life in
the air, our condition was real enough to the
imagination — heart-breaking real indeed ; but
down here it was like some wild fancy, one of
those strange dreams which hover in the brain
betwixt waking and sleeping. Besides, it vas
a time and an occasion too for whatever was
superstitious in the soul to creep into self-assertion
away from the clutch of reason. I
don't know that I should have felt nervous but
for the memory of the face I had seen ; but I
confess that I was more uneasy than I should
have been willing to admit to Miss Grant, as I
lay in the dim, ashen-tinctured atmosphere of
that underground apartment, running my eye
from the grim memorials of sabre and musket on
the wall, to the old table over against my head,

on to the short corridor going black to the
square of faintness that overhung the extremity,
thence to the skylight, through which I could
see a hundred soft and trembling stars.

However, after lying awake for a good long
while, I fell into a vein of domino:, rambling'
thinking, the sure precursor of sleep, more like
the shadows of dreams flitting before me than
the presentments of waking thoughts ; a sort of
stupid confusion of pirates, mistily and so uselessly
flitting about the chamber, with a few
turtle mixed up amongst them, and God knows
what besides ; saving that, though reason was
faltering, I was sensible enough to know I
should presently be fast asleep.

I was in this condition of mind, my eyes
fixed upon the skylight, though the lids were
drooping fast and I was scarce conscious of
what I viewed, when I saw a shadow as of the
hat that I had met with in the forest, as it
seemed to me, overhanging the open space.
The posture of this shadow was that of a man
peering down. 'Twas unmistakable ; I could
not be deceived. The dark outline was clear
against the stars, and it was the head of a man

VOL. in. E

wearing just such a steeple-crowned hat as I
had encountered, bending over and gazing down.
I was instantly startled into broad wakefulness.
Brave I should be sorry to call myself,
though I think there is no man whose nose I
should hesitate to pull who called me otherwise
to my face ; but at sight of that sugar-loafed
hat and the motionless peering human shape
revealed to a little past the shoulders, I must
confess to having burst into a cold sweat. It
was the being shocked perhaps out of the
drowsiness Into which I had sunk that made
me think the thing a phantom for a minute or
two. I lay starless, softly sneaking my right
hand to the pistol, by which time I had come
to a sense of the reality of the vision ; but
before I could point the weapon, being resolved
to fire cost what It would, the hat vanished.
Now, thought I, the fellow has been able to
obtain a tolerable view of this interior, and
concludes I am sound asleep. His next step
will be to come below !

I rose very lightly, being anxious not to
disturb Miss Grant, and holding both pistols in
my hands, I stepped in my stockings over to

the corner made by the projection of the furnace,
where I crouched in the deep shadow that
lay upon this part of the room, with my head
lifted over the edge of the brickwork to enable
me to command the entrance. Hardly had
two minutes elapsed when I spied the hat again
overhanging the skylight, but it did not offer
such a mark as I could hope to pot from
the place I stood in ; so I continued to wait
and watch. I could hear no sound, not the
faintest crunch of a footfall upon the grit of the
sand outside ; but the quick breathing of the
fellow was as audible as the beating of my heart
in my ear, and as full a warrant as I could have
asked that the thing was no ghost. The
peering and meditative posture of the hat was
preserved whilst I might have counted twenty ;
the shadow then disappeared. Now, thought I,
will he return to the forest, or will he descend ?
Is he alone, or was the second apparition that
of a companion wearing such another hat as the
first had on ? Suddenly I saw the sort of film
of light that came clouding a little way into the
corridor out of the hatch die out, and in an
instant, with the swiftness of a leap almost,

E 2

the man was in the room. Softly as the footfall
of a cat I got my pistol to bear upon him, but
before I could pull the trigger he fell upon all
fours, and a moment after I heard the clank of
the bell grasped and overset. I sprang out of
my hiding place, took full aim, and fired. The
explosion made a thunder in the room. By
the flash of the powder I saw the creature spring
to the height of the ceiling whilst he uttered
the most piercing scream that ever broke from
mortal lips. The wild cry was echoed by a
shriek in Miss Grant's room. I was half-crazy
with rage and consternation, and flinging down
the pistol I had fired, I levelled the other at
the creature as he ran, dropping to the earth
with one hand as he went in staggering leaps
through the dark passage, and sent a second
ball at him. The report was followed by
another ear-piercing shriek horribly human.
The curtain behind me was dashed aside, and
Miss Grant stepped forth.

What is it ? " she cried.

The silver mounting of the pistol she held
gleamed in her grasp as she raised her hand in
addressing me.

'' I have shot something," I exclaimed ; " but
whether man or beast I know not. Be it what
it will, it has two bullets in its body. Let me
have your pistol."

I took it from her, and walked right to the
steps which led above. There was nothing in
the passage. I sprang into the open and
looked around. The moonlight lay bright as
day, the shadows of the trees sloping eastwards
black as indigo where they rested on the sand.
Within a stone's throw of me was a dark object
that looked like a small tortoise at the distance
whence I viewed it. I approached and found
it to be the hat that I had found in the
forest. Miss Grant had followed me noiselessly,
and I only knew that she was at my side by
her breathing, the sound of which was not a
little startling to me, bending down as I was to
examine the hat.

Look, Mr. Musgrave ! " she exclaimed, in
one of her tragic whispers, '' that must be the
man you shot." She pointed with her white
arm to the stretch of sand some distance past
the opening that led to our cells, where I
instantly observed a figure prone and motionless.

In a moment I was making towards
it, but with increasing bewilderment as I advanced
; for as the outline stole out clearer
and clearer in the icy radiance to my steps
I witnessed features which gradually but surely
changed my alarm into a conflict of quite
other emotions. The body lay on its back ;
its half-closed eyes looked straight up at the
stars out of a brown and puckered face ringed
with white whiskers ; its arms were stretched
out in the posture of a crucified person.

'rit has three legs ! " cried Miss Grant.

"By thunder, no!" I exclaimed, bursting
into a wild laugh ; " that is no leg, but a
great tall ! As I hope to go to heaven, tis
a huge Madagascar ape ! "

A GALE OF WIND.

The murder was now out, the mystery made
very plain indeed, and the solution, like most
others which come to a man in this life, looked
so simple that one seemed half a fool for not
having hit upon it at once. How this great
monkey happened to be in the island who is to
say ? Not very likely, I think, that he was
born here, unless he happened to be an only
son, and both parents dead. Most likely he
had belonged to a ship, and been cast away
with the crew many years before. I do not
know how long monkeys live, but this fellow,
as he lay in the moonlight with his teeth gleaming
in the grin of death out of the wrinkled
leather of his face, framed by a pair of long
snow-white whiskers, seemed eighty years old.

It was likely that he had belonged to a ship
because of his bell-ringing trick, and then his
wearing that Guy Fawkes hat looked as if he
had been bred in his youth to a knowledge of
clothes.

But be this as it may, the bell was rung no
more. I pitched the hat into the sea and met
with no other ; no wild convulsed face looked
at me out of the high greenery, and the skylight
remained unshadowed by any outline of
sugar-loaf headgear in peering and hearkening
posture.

Miss Grant and I talked late into the night,
for tame as the issue proved, it was, I can tell
you, hotly exciting whilst it lasted. But we
got some rest towards the small hours, sleeping
well into the morning, and then my first business
was to drag the monkey down to the creek
where the sand was steep with a depth of three
fathoms to the shelf of it ; and with no further
service than a few sea-blessings upon its head for
the worry and alarm it had caused me, I rolled
the body overboard, guessing that it would presently
float seawards, where John Share lay
in readiness to provide it with a sure tomb.

And now for three weeks nothing that I need
tease you with happened ; no such incident, I
mean, as that of my discovery of the under .
ground rooms, or the midnight tolling, and the
sight of the hat on the bell-frame afterwards ;
but it grew into a bitter distressful time for us
as the hours swelled into days, and the days
rolled into weeks, and found us still imprisoned
upon this island, not utterly hopeless indeed of
deliverance, though wee presently scarce dared to
expect it. God knows that never a shipwrecked
eye kept a steadfast look-out for vessels than
I did ; but though during those three weeks I
reckoned that I had sighted ten sail in all, none
of them ever grew to more than a glimmer of
white upon the distant line ; so showing and so
fading — worthless to us as though they had
been no more than the wreaths of steam or
lite curls of white vapour which they resembled.
Only twice indeed did I fire my faggots and
make a smoke. The distance the vessels
showed at made my heart hopeless, and I could
scarce step a pace from one shadow to another
through the roasting dazzle of sand without
asking myself how it must have fared with us

had there been no fresh water on the island.
For food, there were turtle and craw-fish in
abundance, along with an occasional paroquet
which I would knock over with Miss Grant's
pistol, the precise little weapon of the kind I
had ever handled. We brought at the start no
great relish to these birds, but they proved
dainty eating for people in our situation, when
carefully plucked, cleansed, and boiled. We
found a plentiful growth of plantains, citrons,
whose juice mingled with water furnished us
with a refreshing drink, wild oranges, and a
small delicious fruit resembling the Australian
passion fruit, but its proper name I do not
know. There were, as you have heard, a large
stock of fish-hooks in the little black chest in
Miss Grant's room. I had no means of pushing
out seawards to any distance to fish, so between
us Miss Grant and I manufactured lines of
twisted linen, which we laid up to strengthen
the least rotted portions of the small stuff I
found in the chest ; then attaching a sinker to
the baited hook, I buoyed it to a little piece of
timber, the sinker going about two fathoms
below the surface, and let the apparatus drift

out from the mouth of the creek to the end of
the Hne which I held in my hand, and in this
manner I caught a great number of fish, incredibly
various in hues, shapes, and sizes ;
some of them coming out of the water like
flashes of dark gold light, others green as
emeralds, others with half-a-dozen of brilliant
colours glowing upon them ' as though fantastically
painted, yet with exquisite cunning, by
an artist. It was merciful that we did not
poison ourselves with some of these fish, for we
ate all we took, if I except a great bloated,
spotted thing with a green back, fins like a
man's arm amputated at the elbow, and a white
breast freckled with sulphur-coloured spots.
Even this creature I think we should have
devoured but for its ugliness, yet nothing that
we ate hurt us. Indeed our health continued
very good, which I attribute to our being lodged
out of the touch of the night air, to our exposing
ourselves as little as possible to the sun,
and to the sweetness and purity of the water
we drank.

As you may suppose, it was impossible for
such an association as ours not to deepen in me

the sentiment that had been excited so long
before as the first week or two of our being
aboard the Iron Crown. We were hour after
hour together ; it was indeed almost only during
those intervals when I would walk to the hummock
to take a view of the sea that we were
separated. My couch of leaves and rugs was
at the threshold of her doorway. All through
the night there was nothing betwixt her and me
but the curtain I had contrived. In the deep
hush of that strange interior, made solemn to
my mind by thoughts of the grave, and sanctified
to my imagination by the presence of the
beautiful woman it sheltered, I would lie listening
to the regular respirations of her slumber,
disturbed at long intervals by some low melodious
fluttering of speech breaking from her dreaming
lips, and sometimes I would catch my name
clear in these unconscious uttering ; and it was
significant to me almost to an emotion of grief
that I would notice myself hearkening for the
name of her lover, and smiling when her babbling
died out in a long sigh, followed on by
peaceful regular breathing. It seemed a sort of
mocking of fate, so to speak, to think of love, to

be sensible of the stir of the emotion, in such a
situation as ours was ; but then, unhappily, it
was no more to be helped than the thirst that
would come upon me. or the yearning after our
deliverance. That I concealed from her what
was in my mind I cannot say. I strove most
strenuously to do so, not only from love of m^y
own honour, and because it would have wrung
me to the heart to have been the occasion of a
pang in her, but because I instinctively feared
indeed let me say I clearly foresaw — that
should she guess at my thoughts of her, a sort
of alienation must follow, a condition of inexpressible
embarrassment to us both, banded
as we were in intimate partnership by our
imprisonment. I could foretell pity, shyness,
reproach in her ; an estrangement which would
be as a perpetual wound to my pride ; a cessation
of our free communion, to end maybe in a mere
bleak civility of intercourse ; the inspiration of
our requirements rather than of her desire. You
will think me unduly sensitive ; yet when I look
back I cannot but think that I rightly governed
myself in the matter. If ever this fair and
charming woman was under my protection she

was so now, with infinitely deeper claims on me
than she could have had in our darkest hours
aboard ship. Her very defencelessness, methought,
was God's own protest in her against
the lightest exhibition of passion that would give
her uneasiness. If I was in love with her, it
was for my honour as a gentleman to wait until
our escape should strengthen her womanhood
by the surroundings of a civilized life to tell her
so, or enable her to conjecture my mind. Thus
I reasoned with myself, and so reasoning I
acted ; but I must admit the weakness of a deep
wish in me at times to interpret her by looking
into her eyes. She was heavily subdued, as you
will conceive, by the conditions of our life,
otherwise I witnessed no chano^ein her manner.
There was nothing to be divined from what she
said, by what she did, or what she looked, and
no gaze was ever more eloquent, more darkly
beautiful with spirit, thought, and intelligence.

But to proceed, for this threatens to become
mere parish chatter.

For days and days the weather had been
lovely and quiet, the sun regularly going down
behind the island rayless in the whirl of his

crimson haze, the evening opening to his descent
soft, dark, and fragrant as the heart of a violet ;
nights of marvellous stillness, saving always the
island voices, with the firmament that seemed
to hover like a sheet of silver dim in places, so
lustrous was the star-shine, so thick the dust of
the constellations when the moon was gone and
left the heavens eclipsed from sea-line to sea-line
; with calm blue dawns dazzling fast into
tropical glory, and then the long, brassy, fiery
day, and the silent sea sparkling with the tingling
glitter of new tin under the soaring luminary.
At intervals a cloud would show no bio^aer thana
man's hand, like a burst of steam from a
boiler on the horizon, and then melt out into the
blue air as though the heat within the cincture
of which our island was the centre were so
fierce as to absorb the substance of it ere it
could float to its shoulders.

But one afternoon, three weeks after the date
on which we had been set ashore, there came a
change. That a shift of weather was at hand
one might have gathered by the general uneasiness
expressed by the life on the island.
The birds' whistling had a subdued note, the

parrots' scream was softened somewhat, the ear
detected a hint of agitation in the peculiar
snoring noise made by the tree-toad ; there was
a constant hurried flight of feathered things
amongst the trees, the continued restless glint of
coloured plumage darting like prismatic rays
amongst the leaves. The insects bit fiercely,
and the universal humming rose with a sharp
note of anger and fear in the shrilling that was
new to me. Miss Grant told me that these
queer symptoms of disquiet might be prophetic
of an earthquake, and certainly the intolerable
heat of that day should have led one to expect
such a thing! Indeed the sultry air seemed to
press down upon one with a sensible weight,
and with the stifling breath of the atmosphere
of a hot oven.

When I saw the blue thickening into a kind
of dinginess of no colour that I could give a
name to, with a rounding of the sea at the edge
of it like a lifting up of its flood, though it
would be no more than the shadowing it got
from the sky, with a sort of airy whitish gleam
the whole horizon around, I thought to myself,
if a tropical outburst is to happen, it is as well

that I should turn to at once and provide that all
things under hatches shall be as snug as possible.
So I fell to work to bring up the hatch-cover I
had knocked to pieces, and shipped the fragments
into a compact form over the opening,
regretting that ever I had been fool enough to
break it up. I then took a view of the skylights
and mused a while over them ; for, thought I,
when they are shut, the sweep of wind and wet
will speedily load them with sand, and then,
with the entrance covered by the hatch, how Is
fresh air to enter these cells so that we shall be
able to breathe ? But it was imperative anyway
that the skylight should be closed, if. supposing
the rain to fall heavily, the rooms were
not to be swamped out of hand. I tried to
consider how the buccaneering folks who had
dug out the place dealt with an extremity of
this kind, but was quite at a loss. Some trick
they must have had, but it was above my art.
I conferred with Miss Grant, and she was for
facing the approaching tempest above. I told
her that she must know more about tropical
weather than I did, but that it seemed to me,
if a West Indian tempest was threatened by the

VOL. III. F

gathering gloom, we were bound to perish if
we did not shelter ourselves from it ; and what
shelter was there on the island save the vaults
in which we lived.

"Yes," she exclaimed, "but should they be
flooded we must be drowned ; for how shall we
escape when the water is pouring in ? "

Well, I understood this danger clearly, and
was fairly nonplussed ; and indeed how we
should have managed, had the weather fulfilled
its threat of tropic storm, I don't know. But
very fortunately for us, a little before sundown
the sulky dimness above shaped out into bodies
of clouds heading south, with a sea-board full of
well-defined shaggy heads, showing rusty to the
sun, lifting fast in the north. Then it came onto
blow, in small moans at first, a sullen swell
leagues in length rolling along the course taken
by the clouds and swinging silent to the island,
where it burst in thunder with a roaring, foam-less
slide of it past the eastward-facing beach.
But the moans quickly grew into the hooting
and whistling of a brisk wind increasing yet,
even as one listened to it, to tempestuous bellowing
high aloft, with a wild flying of the dry

white sand, a fierce stooping and shearing of the
trees, through which the wind seethed with a
sound as of red-hot hissing, and a magnificent
smoky scarlet that put a Hning of blood whilst
it lasted to the shadows flying athwart the angry
beams. I saw, or hoped perhaps, that there
was to be no rain, and that was comforting ; but
the weight of wind, and the blinding flashing
into the eyes of the flying coral grit soon forced
us below ; though not before we had seen
enough of the suddenly enraged ocean to stamp
a memory fit to last for life. You almost
feared for the island, so thunderous was the
blow of the surge, so scaring the sight of the
pallid bodies of foam sweeping in shrouds of
faintness — like the colour of the brow of the
snow-cloud discharging its white burthen to the
tempest — through the evening gloom that rapidly
followed the sun's going. The wind struck the
cheek salt and heavy with spray, which swept
through the lashed and writhing trees with the
crackling, rending, and tearing noise of storm
after storm of bullets volleying into them.

In this way the sand became in a very short
time too wet to fly, nor was the briny showering

F 2

SO heavy as to excite in us the least apprehension
of being flooded by it. With the skylights
closed and the hatch-cover on we were snuQ^
enough in our underground chambers. As for
fresh air, more than we needed came blowing
down through the cracks of the cover I had
broken up, and whose fragments I had put
together over the orifice. But though we were
sheltered, and safer maybe than we should have
been in a house, having regard to the wind only,
there was to be no rest for us that night. The
mere fear that the tempest might play us the
familiar tropic trick of ceasing all at once with a
driving up of the hindmost clouds into a compact
blackness of vapour, breaking on a sudden into
a mighty roar of rain heavy enough to swamp
a city to the very roof of its cathedral, was
enough to keep us wide awake ; for should such
a downpour happen, there would be nothing for
it but to instantly rush into the open, before the
rooms filled, and perish — if perish we must — insight
of the sky, instead of drowning like rats
in a hole !

'Twas as wild a night as ever I remember ;
the glass frames above were soon coated with

wet sand, but the occasional flash of Lightning
darting out of some rushing cloud glanced with
a violet glare in the passage through the chinks
in the cover ; but if ever thunder followed it
was out-bellowed by the hurricane, or swept by
the headlong rush of the blast clean out of
hearing. Our cells hummed to the elemental
torment for all the world as though there was
an endless procession of locomotives dragging
heavy trains of cars over the island. We had
husbanded our slender resources so carefully
that we had a few wax candles left, and most
grateful were we this night for the light one of
them gave us. Without it we must have sat in
total blackness throughout those long and
raging hours.

'rit is the proper sort of storm," said I on
one occasion to Miss Grant, " to blow vessels
ashore here. It should be an ill wind indeed if
it blows us no good. What an imprisonment
is ours ! Enough to make one so wicked as too



pray for a shipwreck, on chance of the sight of
a survivor, or of a boat washing ashore, or
material to help us to get away."

It should frighten a poor shipwrecked sailor

horribly, I think," she said, "to cleanse that
glass up there and look through, and see an
illuminated room with a man and woman sitting
in it."

She gave a little hysteric laugh, bringing her
hands to her eyes.

It was a very nightmare of an experience
then to my mind, and her beauty was powerless
to soothe or soften it. There were three weeks
of this life working in us, and had I been alone,
though I should have kept my senses sound asa
bell to this moment, I believe I must have
fallen mad as a thirst-crazed sailor before the
dawn broke. Expectation rose into positive
agony with waiting for the thunderous subterranean
humming to cease, for then the rain
might come, and the necessity of carrying my
companion into the open to face the black
deluge, and whatever else might happen there,
was only less frightful to my overstrained nerves
than the fancy of such a quick flooding of these
chambers as would give us no time to escape
from them. A man should wield a pen above
my power to put such a picture of us and of
this room before you as might make you witness

it even dimly. I see at this moment the candle
stuck in a bottle, with the remains of our poor
supper of such odds and ends as we had been
able to collect still upon the table — as mocking
a regale as ever eye rested upon ! — shadows
like the reflection of human forms moping and
mowing on walls and ceilings to the slant of the
flame stirred by small hurrying of draught
coming out of the black corridor ; the black
shapes of the old muskets and hangers, the
doorway yawning past the half-drawn curtain,
courting the glance to the dungeon gloom
within — the whole gathering a preternatural
element to my imagination, stirred to its depths
as it was by the trembling of the earth to the
shocks of the sea upon its northern board,
from the look of wild beauty my companion's
eyes got from the candle-flame, as they showed
dark to it out of her face, whitened to the very
complexion of a spirit by our vigil and the
thoughts that worked in her.

All through that night, down to an hour past
dawn, it blew a fierce and heavy gale of wind,
never rising, however, to the hurricane force
that is to be expected in weather of this kind

hereabouts. We knew by the cessation of the
humming noise In our rooms that there was
tranquillity overhead, but the skylights were so
thickly coated with sand that no ray of light
broke through, and the change In the weather
was only to be gathered by listening. It took
me some while to break my way out through
the entrance In consequence of the heavy
plastering of the hatch-cover by the wet soil
hove by the wind upon It ; and seeing that our
dwelling-place must have been air-tight for
some time, it was strange that we found no
Inconvenience from breathing the atmosphere.
But then, to be sure, the chambers were
tolerably big, and there were but two of us to
breathe In them, with but a single candle-flame
besides. I battered the hatch with one
of the muskets, and so forced It open, and on
emerging found a sullen, wild, though silent
morning, dense masses of white cloud hanging,
brooding fashion, over the sea, with their violet
shadows lifting up to them, as it were, great
lagoons of blue sky between, the sun in one of
them shining with a fiery and piercing light.
Indeed the wind was all gone ; but there was

a great swell still running which made the sea
a noble and majestic sight. The polished
flowing of the vast folds caught the sunlight as
they rolled, till under the luminary the ocean
seemed to be formed of sweeping hills of molten
silver. The gale had played havoc with the
island ; many trees lay fallen, and the weather
side of the little forest showed as though the
branches there had been trimmed by the shears
of countless gardeners during the night. But
the insects and flies had come off with their
lives. Their concert was prodigiously shrill,
with a note of thanksgiving in it, Miss Grant
thought ; but it sounded to me more like an
impertinent hymn of triumph, the clamour of
multitudinous insignificance, as one might say,
over the defeat of the mighty forces of nature.
We stood eagerly looking towards the sea and
along the sands far as our sight could trace
them, not knowing what might have happened
during the long, dark, howling hours ; but there
was nothing to be seen saving the mighty,
brilliant blue welter sending its brows washing
to the edge of the distant sky. We then made
for the hummock, and took another view

thence ; but the prospect was barren of wreck ;
not a glimpse of the wet flash of a fragment of
black timber wallowing — no hint of any sort of
disaster at sea.

I will not say I was disappointed, for I had
scarce felt expectation ; but my sickness at
heart was deep — never had it been deeper in
those three weeks that we had spent upon this
island — when I sent my gaze around the
winding and waving horizon, and found no
vaguest symptom of life in it outside its own
ponderous turbulence. Down on the northern
strand the surf was vast and glorious, with the
bursting of the swell arching into giant
breakers upon the beach. The giddy dazzle,
the creaming splendour detained us. The
prismatic, snow-white boiling, along with the
cold thunder of the headlong and recoiling
masses of water, were grateful beyond expression
to every sense in us, coming now to loathe,
as we did after many days of it, the stifling
stagnation of the great plain. However, the
swell of the sea soon flattens when there is no
wind, and by noon the heave of the deep was
languid enough, the clouds gone, saving a small,

pearl-coloured heap in the south, and here and
there out at sea faint trickling of air delicately
smearing the glassy blue, like the tarnishing of
moistened fingers upon a looking-glass.

The short of the fallen trees raised an Idle

o

hope in me of manufacturing some sort of fabric
out of them by which we might escape ; for we
were now arrived at such a condition of hopelessness
that, sooner than go on lingering in
this island, which we dared no longer believe
any vessel ever approached close enough to
witness a signal of distress in the smoke of our
fire, we thought it would be better to take our
chance on the roughest contrivance we could
put together, and launch. We had material to
stitch Into a sail, which, under Providence,
might blow us within eyeshot of a ship. But
it was not necessary to look long at the fallen
timber to understand that, without help and
without tools. It was as useless to us as the
coral sand under our feet. What were we todo
? Was It the will of Heaven that we
should end our days on this beautiful but most
melancholy island ?

As we sat conversing, Miss Grant on a sudden

gave way. Never once during our imprisonment
had she let fall a tear ; but now she broke
down. She covered her face with her hands,
wept most piteously, sobbing as if her heart
were broken. If ever I had wondered whether
I was in love with her, my doubts would have
ended as I watched her in her grief, waiting for
the first passion of her sorrow to spend itself
before I addressed her. The natural timidity
of a woman she had indeed exhibited on several
occasions ; but taking our wild, miserable, most
distressful experiences throughout, her spirit
had shown clear, noble, heroic, and it was this
fine character in her that made her sudden outbreak
miserable to witness. One would have
given little heed to such a display of emotion as
this in a woman who had been fretful and
mopish during our trials, with tears always at
hand, and a weak heart aggravating with repining.
But here was a girl whose courage had
proved superior to every demand made upon it ;
in those darker and sterner experiences, I mean,
which might well have caused the spirit of the
stoutest-hearted man to shrink within him.
The sweetness of her nature had never failed

her. Again and again had our gloomy underground
haunt resounded with the gentle melody
of her laughter, often uttered, as every instinct
in me knew, for no other purpose than to cheer

me ; and to see her giving way now

I waited a little, and then I could no longer
bear it. I took her hand and put it to my lips
and fondled it, and said — but I know not what
I said, only that I was sensible my secret had
slipped from me. Whether she gathered the
import of my words, whether indeed she even
knew what I spoke, I cannot tell. The cloud
passed presently, and she was again meeting
my gaze with steadfast, shining eyes, the more
brilliant they looked for the very tears she had
wept. Well, thought I, everything that happens
is for the best, we must believe ; yet for the rest
of the day the memory that I had been hurried
into saying more, much more, than I felt I ought
to have addressed to her, haunted and bothered
me ; but though I would eye her keenly, if
furtively, and listen to her with an attention so
strained that it could not have missed a single
note in her utterance interpretable by my sensitiveness,
I could no more have told, when the

night came and we had parted to take our rest,
that she had heard or heeded what I had said
to her, than I could have predicted what was
to happen to us next day.

It was the morning of the twenty-first day of
our captivity. I was awakened from a dream
of my old home in England — a cheerful vision
of an English landscape, with the soft May sky
shining over budding hedgerows and the
delicate green of spring vegetation — by the
loud singing of a bird perched on a ledge of the
open skylight, which I need hardly say I had
long before purified of the sand that the storm
had accumulated upon it. This singing had
something of the note of a linnet in it, only very
strong and piercing, and doubtlessly it was the
melodious piping that set me dreaming of
English meadows and woods, and the house in
which I was brought up till I went to sea. I
had passed a good night, felt strengthened and
refreshed by the long rest, and at once kicked
off my rug with the design of taking my usual
morning plunge off the sand away round past
the creek. All was quiet in Miss Grant's room
I climbed the steps, and found it a brilliantly

clear morning, roasting hot after the pattern
of the days here, the sea very calm, with a light
swaying like a long sigh running through it, and
a soft air floating languidly down out of the
north, with just weight enough to put a trembling
into the needle-like rays spiking off the
edge of the sun's light in the water, as though
the seams of his wake were ravelled. I cast a
careless look around the ocean, thinking more
of my bath, maybe, than what might be in view ;
for this looking for ships had grown into a habit,
and habit becomes mechanical. I then undressed
and waded to the height of my hips, a
depth I durst not exceed for fear of sharks, and
after revelling for nigh half an hour in the cold
blue swing of the little breakers, whose caressing
foam sang to the ears like the seething of the
froth of a sparkling wine, I stalked again on to
the beach, dried, and fell to dressing myself.

Whilst I was thus occupied I suddenly spied
something black out upon the water, but
how far off I could not tell. I took it to bethe
back of a shark at first, or the black spine
of a porpoise that would round away out of
sight in a minute ; then I thought it must

be a piece of wreck ; but as It seemed to me
to be very slowly growing, I walked to a
clump of trees to shelter me from the heat of
the sun, and sat down to watch the thing.
It was little more than a speck when I first
sighted It, but after waiting some time, and
observing that It Increased in size, I could not
question that It was approaching the Island, and
that It was either a boat or canoe Impelled
by human agency, for there was no sail to
bring her along, though the faint breeze
favoured her ; nor, though the tide might be
helping her a bit, was the set of It swift enough
to account for the thing's growth. I was
gazing intently when I heard Miss Grant calling.
I hallooed back, telling her to come tome.
She arrived presently, exclaiming, as she
approached, that she was growing alarmed by
my long absence. I pointed to the object on
the water.

It must be a boat, I think," I cried. '' I
am watching it — waiting to see what it
means."

She looked, instantly saw it, and cried,
"Oh!" starting violently, with a quick clasping

of her hands, and then, with her manner
full of excitement, came and sat close beside
me. " Oh, Mr. Musgrave, If It should prove
a boat ! "

'* It is a boat ; It Is being rowed too. Look
attentively, and you will see the glint, on the
riofht hand side of It, of the wet blade of an
oar lifting to the Heat."

I see It ! " she cried.

My mind was agitated beyond miy capacity
of expressing the commotion raised within me
by the sight of the boat. I seized Miss
Grant's hand with both mine, pressing It whilst
I cried out In my transport that a chance had
come, that we might now regard our deliverance
as certain, that my frequent bitter, Implore
Ing prayers were heard at last, and we were
now to be supplied with the means of escaping.
The distress of the sea makes a very child
of a man. I felt the tears welch my eyes
refused to distil scalding at my heart. One
may bear up stoutly for days, for weeks, for
months amid the misery of solitude ; hope
dying out In one to a mere spark amid the
embers of dreams and expectations — I say one

VOL. III. G

may endure the heaviest afflictions the sea can
heap upon the soul with a Hon's spirit ; yet
it will be strange if, when succour comes at
last, one do not give way as a little child
might.

Within three-quarters of an hour of my
first catching sight of the minute speck, it had
enlarged upon the calm white heave of the
sea to the proportions of what was apparently
a ship's quarter-boat, with a spot of red in her
that puzzled me, a mast like a hair rising out
of the black rounding of the gunwales, and
an occasional gleam of oars wielded most
languidly and intermittently, as though handled
by a dying man. Indeed, I cannot convey
how suggestive of distress was this slow and
Irregular motion of the oars, rateable from
the sparkle of them whenever the blades rose
languidly from the blue surface. Presently I
saw that what I had taken to be a spot of red
in the boat was a soldier's jacket, and waiting
yet a little while longer, I observed that
the fellow was a negro. There was no other
occupant of the boat to be seen. I ran down
to the beach, followed by Miss Grant, to

I

motion the man to head for the beach at the
head of the creek ; for small as the breakers
were, it would have been madness to imperil
so precious an object as the little fabric by
grounding her amongst them. He evidently
understood me, for he pulled a little with his
left hand to point his boat according to my
gestures, and then let go both oars to stand
up, with his hands clasped above his head, and
his face lifted as in a posture of entreaty to
God, whilst his body reeled in such a way
that I expected to see him go overboard.
He next made certain signs, pointing to his
mouth and then down into the boat, and then
clasped his hands again, but I could not understand
him. I shouted, to encourage him,
continuing to point towards the creek, which
would be visible to him, and presently he sat
down and fell to his oars afresh, but rowing so
weakly that it was miserable to watch him.
He made shift, however, to bring the boat
within a fathom or two of the head of the spit of
sand that formed one side of the entrance to
the creek ; then looking round, he got his port
oar inboard out of the thole-pins, and had his

G 2

hand on the loom of the other, when he fell
back and disappeared.

My terror lest the boat should drift away
rendered me as reckless as if I had fallen crazy.
Without giving a thought to the sharks that
might be about, I waded into the water till it
was out of my depth, then swam with the
utmost fury, and after a few strokes caught
hold of the gunwale, and with a hard spring
rolled head over heels into the little fabric, and
seizing the oar that lay jammed in the thole-pins,
I headed the boat into the creek, and
sculled her right fair to the gleaming round of
the little inlet without so much as glancing at
what lay inside the craft, till her forefoot was
aground and I had leaped ashore.

A STARTLING APPARITION.

There was a second man in the boat, a negro
also. He lay dead In the bottom, a dreadful
sight, naked to the waist, and clothed with a
pair of sailor's old drill trousers, the right leg
discoloured by many blood-stains. He was
twisted, as though his spine was broken, with
his breast partly turned towards the stern of the
boat, whilst his knees, which were drawn up,
pointed forwards, and his face stared straight
up, the eyes open like dull glass, and the skin
of that indescribable sort of greenish ashen hue
which death contrives as a complexion for the
dead black man. The other fellow was on his
back, as he had fallen, with his head in the
bottom of the boat, and his legs over the thwart.
He still breathed, but I noticed the foam gathering

upon his lips even as I looked on for a
moment or two at this terrible picture. He
was dressed In a soldier's or marine's coat, a
cloth round about his loins, and his attenuated
cucumber shanks naked ; an old ragged Scotch
cap clung to his woolly head.

It would be impossible forme to tell you how
this little ocean tragedy was heightened by the
element of the grotesque In It. There was no
sail in the boat, no breaker that might have held
water, no hint of the miserable blacks having
sailed or been blown away with so much as a
bite of biscuit. The oars were scarcely more
than paddles, and evidently had not belonged to
the little fabric. She was black outside, painted
white within ; clearly, as I had thought at the
beginning, a ship's quarter-boat. The words
Prince William were painted In small black
letters on her stern, inside of her. Miss Grant
overhung the craft In a posture of pity and
horror.

This poor fellow In the bows Is still alive,"
she cried.

I see that he is," said I ; " we will help him
in an instant ; but the value of this boat signifies

the worth of our Ives, and we must make her a
bit securer yet. Please pull at this rope as I
pull."

I handed a bight of the line In the bows to
her, and then put my hand on the gunwale at
the head, and together we ran her another few
feet out of the water, the wet keel and bottom
of her slipping readily enough up the ivory-like
grit of the sand. All this was done as swift as
I can write it. I then jumped into the boat,
and with some trouble, for he was an exceedingly
heavy man, I raised the negro on to
the thwart, and set his back against the mast.
His head lolled upon his shoulder like that of a
person hanging. He looked at me with a gleam
of intelligence in the lift of his bloodshot eyes,
and his lips moved, but the merest rattle of
noise trembled through the foam that filled his
mouth. He raised his hand and pointed to his
throat.

"Why, of course!" cried I ; " I must have
been mad not to perceive it. The poor fellow
is dying of thirst. Will you get some water,
whilst I keep him propped up here ? "

She was off in a bound like a stand in the

briefest imaginable time returned with a preserved
meat-tin full of water, which I put to the
negro's lips ; but the moment he tasted the cold
of it against his mouth a frenzy seized him.
He grasped the tin, throwing me from him with
a jerk of his elbow that was like to have broken
my back for me against the gunwale, and
uttering a strange throaty cry that made one
think of the yell of a hunted negro to the first
leap of a bloodhound upon him, he drank the
whole of the water at one draught — a full quart,
as I should reckon, for the tin was a big one —
let drop the vessel, flinging both his hands
against his breast in the manner of a man
furiously striking himself, stood bolt upright
with a most mad and murderous look in his eyes
as they met mine, ere they rolled right up till
you saw nothing but the crimsoned whites of
them, and then without a groan fell backwards
across the other body and lay motionless.

I looked round at Miss Grant. " The
draught has killed him, I fear," said I.

She turned away her head with her hands
over her eyes. I kneeled down and grasped
the poor wretch's wrist that showed like a bit

of ebony forking out of the ragged sleeve of the
red coat, but could feel no pulse. I then felt
the arm of the man beneath him, designing to
gather if he lived, but instantly twitched my
fingers away from the clammy chill of the
unmistakably dead flesh. I next soaked a
handkerchief in salt water, plucked the Scotch
cap off the head of the man who had fallen, and
bathed his brows, but nothing followed. Once
a movement as of muscular contraction went ina
twitch through him, but the drop of the jaw-told
me all I needed to learn.

It was proper, however, that I should let him
lie for a while to make sure that he was dead,
and so I stepped ashore, and to still further
secure this precious gift that had come to us, I
carried the end of the painter, which was a good
long length of coir rope, with the strands at the
extremity showing that it had parted, to a tree
which stood near the head of the creek, and
secured it, then withdrew with ]\Iiss Grant to
the shelter of some tufted heads of the cocoa to
sit down and rest and think a little, and wait to
observe if the man had actually expired.

My companion was greatly overcome. The

appearance of the negro, the white foam blanching
his purple lips, and the short, stubborn hair
under his nose and chin, the deeper horror that
was put into his anguish by the absurdity of his
apparel, the suddenness of his rising, the frightfulness
of his collapse after he had drained the
tin, with a swing of his hands to his heart, and
the terrifying glare of his eyes, had proved so
overwhelming a picture, with the unexpectedness
on top of it besides of the body in the
bottom of the boat, that she could scarcely raise
her head ; shudders went through her, and I
feared she would faint. Dreadful indeed it was,
but the pitifulness of it, I am almost ashamed to
say, was largely qualified to my mind by the
transport of joy with which I viewed the boat,
and understood that the time of our deliverance
a chance not to have been dreamt of two or
three hours before — had come to us. It needed
but a very brief spell of thinking to arrive at
how this thing had happened. As one who
had used the ocean, I could not fail to see it all
clearly and quickly. In fact the parted strands
of the coir line told me the tale. It was no
painter, but such a rope as a boat would . ride

astern of a ship by. It had broken, maybe, in
the gale that had stormed over us two nights
before, and the boat had gone adrift with these
negroes in her, without a sail, with a rudder
that was without a tiller, without water, and
without food.

I waited for some time, and went to the boat
to have another look at the man, and then his
appearance persuaded me that he was dead. I
was heartily grieved that this should have been
so, for now that he lay at rest he showed, methought,
a very bland and honest countenance,
besides being of a most muscular and robust
make ; and I felt that had he lived he might
have proved of the utmost use to us, not as a
pilot only, and as one perhaps who would know
the situation of this island and its name, but as
an assistant to help rne to rig the fabric and
navigate her. However, the truth lay before
me ; and I suppose these hard island-experiences
of ours having rendered me extremely prosaic
and matter-of-fact in directions which at another
time would have stirred all the sentiment in me
to its depths, I determined to deal with the
bodies without ado. So looking around me, I

picked up two good big stones, one of which I
secured to the body of the man who had just
died by the cloth round about his middle, whilst
I attached the other to the second body in a
manner I need not describe ; then without saying
a word to Miss Grant, who sat watching
me, clearly understanding my intentions, I unmatched
the line from the tree, shoved the boat
afloat, and sculled her clear of the creek where
the water was deep, and tumbled the bodies
overboard. It was as odious a bit of necessary
work as ever mortal man could put his hand to.
Hot as the sun was, the job made me feel as
cold as if the chill of an English November
night were upon me ; but I breathed more freely
when I came to scull myself back to the shore,
and when I stepped out with the end of the line
in my hand, the earlier emotion of joy that the
possession of the little craft had raised was
again so active in my heart that I could scarce
hold myself from singing like a boy at the top
of my voice.

The morning was already advanced, and we
had not yet broken our fast. I disliked the
idea of turning my back upon the boat, lest on

my return I should find her gone. However,
her forefoot being hard and fast ashore, and
the hne in the bows secured to the trees, it was
impossible that the flow of the tide in the creek
could play me any ugly tricks with her ; so we
walked to our underground chambers to o^et
some breakfast. I remember that our repast
consisted of cold turtle-steak, plantains, sweet
oranges, and a draught of cold water from the
brook. The stock of provisions that had been
set ashore with us was now exhausted ; we had
a small quantity of spirits left, but the biscuit,
tongues, preserved meat, and the like, were
gone. Such a breakfast as ours was hardly fare
to grow fat on, but it was wholesome and cool,
and perhaps the sort of food that nature intended
for the use of such human beings as
should live in this island. It seems to me that
the properest food for the people who inhabit
a country is that which grows good for eating
in it. Think of Breakwater's bill of fare, for
instance, under such a dog-star as raged over
the spot of earth we had been marooned upon !
roast pork, massive sausages, turbid pea-soup,
and the atmosphere all the while so hot that

you heard the spikes and leaves and tendons of
the breathless vegetation quivering with tingling
noises like the faint crackling in burnt
paper, or in a sheet of tin curling to the roasting
glare of a furnace ! I was mighty sick of turtle,
and so was Miss Grant, but then it was a sort
of meat in its way, and combined to make out
a meal of the fruit, which was too delicious to
weary us. One helped the other, and rendered
the whole diet nutritious ; and maybe it was the
simplicity of the fare that kept us well. We
had been a long three weeks upon the island,
yet Miss Grant had never once uttered a complaint
of indisposition, whilst for my part I was
almost unreasonably hearty in face of the heavy
anxieties that weighed down my spirits.

'thank God," said I, with a look round the
room, as I seated myself with my companion to
our lenten meal, 'ewe shall soon be taking a
long farewell of this most melancholy haunt.
It would have been strange indeed if that ill
wind the other night blew us no good. A boat
is the next best thing to a ship."

'' How strange it is," she exclaimed, " to
watch the working of the hand of fate ! Ashore,

it is an influence, a hidden government ; but at
sea it is as apparent as a billow, or the rising
of a cloud. One saw that in the boat as she
approached. Fate was at her helm, and if I
were an artist, and desired to materialize the
conception of fate, and make it a visible thing,
I should figure two people standing as we did,
hopeless and imprisoned on this island, watching
the boat coming out of the tiny blot it made
in the far blue distance, gliding towards us
without a swerve, with a final complete surrendering
of itself to us, as it were, through the
death of the two poor creatures in it." Her fine
eyes shone to the high religious mood that was
in her. " Little wonder," she continued, '' that
we should always be saying God's hand is most
plain on the deep. The Ancient mariner was
not mad when he spied the little bark with
Death on board gambling with a woman for
human souls. The sea is to me so much more
wonderful than the land, that I believe I could
credit any amazing thing that should be related
of it. Where else does one come closer to
one's Maker ? Oh, mr. ^lusgrave, it seemed tome
like seeing the Divine finger itself when I

watched that boat growing upon the calm sea,
urged, as we know now, by dying hands."

She shuddered, and pressed her fingers to
her temples. She had been overtaxed, nor was
the horror wrought in her by the incident of
the morning to be soothed by the deep excitement
that the opportunity for escaping from
this island brought with it. Hysteria, I thought,
was bound to dog the heels of such moralizing
as she had started on ; so there was nothing for
it but to be blunt and prosaic, though, but for
the fear I had that the humouring of the mood
she was in would be bad for her, I could have
listened all day. It was not so much what
she said as the thoughts which lay behind
her words, which spoke in her face, making her
beauty eloquent with the rich fancies flushing
to her delicate cheeks, and flashing a brighter
light yet into her eyes.

'' We shall have to go to work briskly," said
I ; " if all were prepared I would start at once."

She came back to herself with an effort,
and brought her hands from her white brows
with a faint smile, as if she understood what
was in my mind concerning her.

'' What is to be done, Mr. Musgrave, that I
may know my share ? " she asked.

Well, first of all we must victual the boat,"
said I ; " we have bottles enough for the storing
of fresh water, and you can do a useful hour s
work by hunting for the corks which we have
drawn and thrown away, and fitting them to
the bottles afresh. For food we must be content
with the handsomest stock of craw-fish,
fruit, and turtle that we can contrive. The
boat wants a tiller. That is easily managed.
She also wants a sail, which we shall have to
manufacture out of your shawls. I must likewise
make a yard for the sail, which may begot
from a bough ofT one of the fallen trees.
This done, our business will be to embark and
head away west."

It is a little boat for so great a sea," she
said, in a low voice.

'' Ay," said I, '' but then the film of land that
was visible from the cross-trees of the Iron
Crown is not too far distant for her to fetch, and it
will be mighty odd Indeed If that streak of blue
haze which the men talked about be not an Inhabited
Island, with houses to lodge In, and the

VOL. in. H

means of proceeding to Jamaica, which can't be
far distant ; whence our next departure will befor
Rio, and for Alexander."

She looked down suddenly, with the pearl of
her teeth showing over the under-lip she slightly
bit, then her eyes sought mine again with a soft
gaze so full of inquiry that my heart seemed to
stop for a breath, as though to catch the words
that must follow her look ; but she did not
speak. I jumped up.

I must go to work now," cried I ; 'ein fact it
frightens me to think of the boat, lying half dry
as she is, being unwatched."

She rose too, with the air of one starting from
deep thought. " My business then," said she
smiling, 'Ms to look for corks, and fit them to
the bottles ? "

If you please," said I.

For the rest 'of the day I worked very hard,
stripped to my trousers and shirt, with my wide
straw hat to shelter me, scarce intermitting my
labour but to eat and drink, and obtaining quite
fortitude enough out of the prospect of getting
away from this island with Miss Grant, to enable
me to defy the intense heat. I found amongst

the fallen trees the very bough to serve my turn,
and without much difficulty I severed it with
my little saw, trimmed it of its leaves, and proportioned
it to the size of the required yard.
I also cut a tiller for the boat. This work I
was able to accomplish under the shelter of the
trees. Miss Grant possessed several shawls of
different textures and colours, and when she had
collected the bottles, and gathered what corks
there were to find, I set her tacking some of
these shawls together into the shape of a sail,
which she managed by perforating them with a
bodkin, and then connecting them with tape, of
which she had a little parcel. She made no
trouble over mutilating her shawls, though I
cannot but think that the first thrust of her
bodkin into them must have caused her a pang.
I cut off a short length of the coir-rope, and got
yarns enough out of it to convert into as many
robarts as were necessary to connect the head
of our queer sail to the yard. There was still
plenty of line left for a tack and sheet and
halliards, which I rove through a sheave in the
head of the mast. My impatience gave me
very great energy indeed. We had a good

H 2

supply of fresh turtle, which needed boiling, and
this, with other matters which it would only
weary you to specify, gave my fair companion
plenty to do. I was resolved not to quit the
island without being well stocked with food, for
should it come on to blow from the westwards,
I foresaw that our sail would not help us, that
we should not be able to lay up to the wind
more than six or seven points, so that we should
stand to be blown away into the Atlantic eastwards,
where we might spend days without view
of a ship. My hope was too high perhaps to
suffer me to contemplate such a probability as
this with the least notion of its coming to
pass, but my seafaring instincts governed me
without my perhaps being very sensible of their
influence, and I schemed, in a mechanical sort
of way almost, so to provision the boat that you
might have thought we intended to sail to
England.

When the cool of the evening came, I plucked
some hundreds of plantains and oranges, which
I carefully stowed away in the little lockers aft
that served as seats in the boat's stern, and I
then fired a torch and waded into the sea for

craw-fish In the manner I have before described,
meeting with a more plentiful harvest than had
at any other time happened to me, insomuch
that I had to give up stooping and throwing
them to Miss Grant through sheer aching of
my back, though the sandy bottom was still
black with the dusky, lizard-like shapes of the
creatures crawling into the sheen, when I extinguished
my torch to step ashore. I also
provided the boat with a stock of cocoa-nuts,
but I never could discover a single turtle's
Egg, spite of my earnest exploring of the sand
for several nights running during those three
weeks.

We were wearied rather than sleepy when
the darkness was deepening Into midnight.
There was a young moon in the sky, with a
wire-like waving of silver under her in the
glooming sea, that spread very darkly to the
stars. I had still several bundles of cheroots
left, and lighting one of them, I brought our
camp-stools close down to the wash of the
ocean, where the sand stretched like Ivory
glimmering to the dusk, for the cool of the
atmosphere upon the water, and to get away

from the trees, in whose shadows the suffocation
air of the day seemed to linger as though
imprisoned. This was to be our last night on
the island, and neither of us could think yet
a while of shutting ourselves up underground.
The phosphorescence of the water was shown
by the light-green flashing which broke from
each little purring breaker, as it melted into
yeast and seethed soft as snow up the coral
strand. But the ocean lay too silent and still
for the fires to show themselves out upon its
breast, if it were not that here and there at
intervals you spied a greenish, smoke-like burst,
as though some huge jelly-fish were shining
under the surface, in the black brow of the
silent swell that ran without sound and without
break. The outline of our boat stood clear like
a sketch in ink against the sand on the other
side of the creek.

"We shall have much to tell," said I, 'when
we are released from this place ; more than
many will think credible, I dare say. 'Tis
almost like some old Arab's yarn, this marooning
of a young man and a lady, the old piratical
lair underground yonder, the incident of the

monkey, and strangest of all, at least to my
mind, the arrival of that boat there this morning
with its tragic burden of dead and dying
blacks. What will Alexander think ? "

If our meeting is much longer delayed,'
she answered, '' he will think us lost."

'what grief for him, poor fellow !" said I ;
but then, you know, the meeting will be the
sweeter for its unexpectedness."

She made no answer ; nor indeed was I
much surprised by her silence. In truth, I
had grown somewhat accustomed to a reserved
attitude in her whenever I spoke of her sweetheart.
However, I was in the humour, I cannot
say why, I am sure to twang this chord just a
little longer.

"Now," said I, 'ras tomorrow will see us
under way — and the night, please God, safely
on board ship, or within view of the lights of a
little town in some island hidden behind the
sea-line — I feel equal to talking a bit freely,
Miss Grant. I have not set eyes on Alexander
for years. He was a fine, handsome young
fellow when at sea with me ; always bold
enough to excite my admiration ; but since then

his courage seems to have increased. Do I
admire it in its excess ? I will not say so. The
emotion it excites is one, I fear, of supreme
wonderment only."

The moonlight was thin, but I could see her
looking at me by it, with a little contraction of
her white brows as evidence of the intensity
of her gaze. " Some satirical fancy about
Alexander has occurred to you ? " she exclaimed.

No, Miss Grant, nothing of the sort, on
my honour."

*' What is this courage of his that you wonder
at ? "

'' The astonishing pluck he showed in confiding
you to my care." She did not or would
not understand. " Here am I," I continued,
"3. young man, for days and days in the society
of a lady of whose charms he has proved
himself very sensible indeed." She uttered a
soft laugh scarcely above her breath. *' Now,
would not my cousin, as a young man himself,
conclude that it could be scarcely possible for me
to be so incessantly with you without — without
well now, what I mean to say is, without my
falling in love ? "

He would not think of such a thing, Mr.
Musgrave."

Oh, I fancy he would. A thought of the
kind is bound to occur, and it is this triumphing
of hope in him over what must lie at his heart
with the strength of a conviction, that — "

I was arrested by her suddenly clutching at
my hand ; her swift fierce grasp, as I thought
it for the instant, almost took my breath away.
*' Heaven forgive me ! " I mentally ejaculated,
I have aroused the Spanish blood in this
woman. I — I — "

'' Look, Mr. Musgrave ! " she exclaimed, ina
tone that thrilled to my ear with the fear in it,
'' what is that ?"

Her face was turned towards the creek, and
following the direction of her glance, I observed
the figure of a man standing a little on this
side of the spot where our luggage had been
deposited by the boat's crew. He was clear of
the shadows of the trees, and it was bright sand
where he stood, and in the light of it lifting
into the atmosphere he resembled a statue
cut in ebony. He was motionless save for the
occasional raising of his hand to his mouth

from time to time, as of a man taking a bite at
something in his fist.

Gracious mercy ! " I exclaimed, a little
above my breath, " not another monkey, I
hope. The deuce Is In this Island. But he
Is too bios surely even for a baboon."

It is a man !" whispered bliss Grant, 'rand
a black man too.'"'

There must be another boat come ashore,"
said I.

I stood starlnor a little, waitlnof to see whether
he would advance, and what he meant to do.
I\Iy heart beat fast. It would be Impossible to
express to you how startling was the apparition
of that black fissure. The suddenness and
unexpectedness of the apparition was rendered
the more alarming by the faintness of the
moonlight. Standing where he was, the
brilliance of the full orb would have Interpreted
him ; but though he stood jet-like upon the
sand, he yet seemed to mingle with the dusk
In a visionary sort of way, and this blending of
the blackness of him with the gloom caused
him to appear as phantasmal as though he were
the veritable shade of some negro anciently

murdered for the snivelling by his spirit of
hidden treasure in the place.

Are there others about, I wonder?" said I.
I sent a swift look towards the forest and past
it, but all was motionless. I bent my ear with
the fancy of catching the notes of voices beyond
where the man stood, suspecting that his boat
had arrived off the western sand ; but no sound
of the kind penetrated the distracting shrilling
of the crickets.

He is watching us ! " exclaimed Miss
Grant.

It was time to end this. In fact the more
one stared at the dusky shape, with its rising
and falling arm, the more one stood to grow
afraid of it.

Hallo there ! " I sang out, walking a little
way towards the figure, '' who are you, and
where have you come from ? "

No answer was returned, but the figure
moved uneasily, as if uncertain how to act. I
hailed again, still advancing towards him, Miss
Grant keeping close by my side ; and then
he approached us, but very slowly, whether
through physical weakness or fear I could not

say. He was sufficiently close now to enable
me to make out that he was a negro, and I was
sensible at sight of him of a sickening chill
coming into me, though at that moment
certainly I could not have accounted for the
sensation. A wild fancy entered my head,
working almost like a touch of insanity there,
that I had seen the man before. Was it the
build of him ? Was it his gait ? I could not
say. He was still too far distant to enable me
to see what clothes he wore, if indeed he
were dressed ; but I remember coming to a
stand with a coldness about my forehead as
though some icy air were fanning me, whilst
I let fly my breath with a sound that came
very near to a cry. On a sudden Miss Grant
screamed out, stepping in a terrified way backwards,
then coming to me again and clutching
my arm.

It is a ghost ! " she cried ; " it is one of the
men you buried to-day. Look at the soldier's
coat on him — at the white cloth under it ! "

He was now near enough to render these
features unmistakable. The red of his ragged
jacket stole out ashen to the wan light ; round

his loins was the cloth to which I had secured
the stone I had sunk him by. Nothing was
wanting to him but his Scotch cap, and that
I knew he would not possess, as I had removed
it to bathe his head, whilst on noticing
it that afternoon lying in the bottom of the
boat, I had chucked it overboard into the
creek. I stood stock still, as though some
blast of lightning had struck me dead. Very
distinctly indeed do I recollect the sensation
of the stirring of the hair upon my head, an
effect I had once looked upon as a mere poetic
imagination, beyond the reach of the extremest
form of terror in real life. The dew started
from my brows, and my hands turned as wet
as though I had lifted them dripping from a
basin of oil. Had I endeavoured to run away
my legs must have failed me. I felt Miss
Grant trembling from head to toe, in the
vibratory, nervous grasp she had of my arm.
Why, here was a man who had at least twelve
hours before fallen dead in our presence, and
whom I had soon afterwards buried in the sea,
securing him against the possibility of rising by
a sinker weighty enough to keep two such

fellows down ; here was this same man, I say,
now standing before me, stalking out of the
forest, it would seem, instead of out of the
ocean, dressed as I had buried him — a dusky
outline with a black face combining with the
gloom, and his eyes touched with the faint
sparkles of the moonlight that he confronted.

'' Oh, speak to him ! What is it ? " exclaimed
Miss Grant.

Thrice I endeavoured to articulate, but my
tongue clove to the roof of my mouth, dry
and parched as the sand upon which we stood ;
but at the fourth effort I managed to find my
voice, and nothing luckier ever rattled inhuman
throat.

In God's name," I said, '' who are you ?"

He answered, but in a language I did not
know.

"It is Spanish," whispered Miss Grant,
"negro Spanish. He is not a ghost then;
but oh, what can he be ? He was dead, Mr.
Musgrave, when you buried him."

Do you speak Spanish, Miss Grant ? "
said I.

She answered, yes.

For Heaven's sake then, address him,
and resolve this horrible mystery," I cried.

But she was too terrified to speak to him
yet. She continued to cling to me with shivers
chasing her. Why, the heart of a Boadicea
might have swooned to such an apparition.
And then the time of its coming too ! — this
dimly tinctured gloom — the streak of westering
moon — the dark sea floating into the
distant silence, with our supreme conviction
that the corpse of the black object we were
looking at lay with a stone attached to it
fathoms beneath the surface !

Pie addressed us again in the same tongue.
In the thick, throaty guttural of the African,
this time delivering a pretty long sentence,
whilst he stood before us with his arms hanging
up and down, and a supplicatory inclination
of the head towards us, and an occasional
totter of his black shanks.

What does he say ? " I cried.

'' It is hard to catch his meaning," she said ;
he speaks a very strange kind of Spanish.
I think what he wants to say Is, that he is
alone and 111, and asks us not to hurt him."

It was about time now that I should see
something miraculous had happened in the
shape of the preservation of this negro's life.
I was still prodigiously amazed and confounded
astonished almost to the height of imagining
that my mind was all abroad, and out and
away more scared than a natural danger could
have rendered me. But common sense was
beginning to break through, and after a lite
I had sufficiently mastered myself to think
intelligently.

This is no ghost. Miss Grant," said I ;
the poor devil has in some astonishing fashion
come off with his life, and we must learn how.
There's a sup of spirits below ; a dram along
with something to eat will help his tongue."

I stepped up to him. Miss Grant meanwhile
keeping a tight hold of my arm, and with a
motion of my hand invited him to accompany
us. He at once complied, and the three of
us walked to our underground chambers.
We had made a very thrifty use of our candles,
and had still a few wax ends left. I asked
Miss Grant to request him to remain outside
till I called him. She did so, and then said,

Do you mean to ask him to come down
here ?"

He won't hurt us," said I ; " he is no ghost.
Kindness will make him grateful."

But suppose he believes you meant to
drown him ? " she exclaimed.

Oh, we'll clear his mind of that notion,"
said I, for I was now rallying fast, with a
hope rising in me that something helpful to
ourselves might come out of this business, and
consumedly curious besides, as you may
suppose, to learn how the fellow had come
to life again.

'' I will go first," exclaimed Miss Grant.

Indeed the negro was still little more thana
ghost to her mind, and if she led the way,
then of course I was between her and him.
It was pitch dark, but we were most sorrowfully
well acquainted with the road by this
time, and easily making our way to the kitchen
struck a light, and then called to the blackman
to come down. He arrived, staring about
him with an air of stupid bewilderment,
apparently thunderstruck at the sight of our
hidden lodging. I lighted a couple of wax

VOL. III. I

ends to have a good view of him, and found
him sure enough the same Quashed whom I
had supposed dead, and whom I had buried,
and whose very existence, I may say, so full
of business had the hours been between, I had
almost forgotten. His soldier's coat sat dry
upon his shoulders, his loin-cloth was also
perfectly dry ; so it was clear his resurrection
had not been recent. His grotesque garb and
ebony figure formed a detail to fit this subterranean
place to perfection. Indeed, somehow
it was impossible to glance at him and
around the chamber without finding a new kind
of significance in everything the eye rested
upon stealing into it out of his presence ; the
muskets and cutlasses looked as grim again,
the walls and ceilings more wildly and piratically
rugged than ever they had shown, to the
turning of the black, wondering face upon them,
as the fellow stared here and there. We had
still a drop of the ship's rum left ; I mixed a
dram for him in a soup and boulli tin, noticing
that he threw the remains of a plantain which
he had been eating into the furnace, to receive
the draught. Indeed, as he afterwards told us,

he had found a tolerable mean atones the
fruit past the forest, and he was eating plantains
when he first hove in sight, as I had
gathered from the motion of his arm. However,
he could find a corner for a large piece
of turtle which I handed to him, devouring it
with great relish and avidity.

Miss Grant posted herself on the other side
of the table, away from him. She stared incessantly,
as if she could not realize his existence,
and indeed, though one saw him eating
and drinking, sitting solid and substantial, with
the whites of his eyes rolling most realistically
over the room, whilst he chewed upon the
turtle with the true negro smacking of the lips
over every bite, yet when I reflected how stone
dead he had been, and how completely I had
buried him. I would start to the fancy that if
it were not all some odd and ugly dream, why
then the black creature inigJit be a spectre after
all, a solemn intimation to my incredulous mind
that such things were. But I must say that
these notions grew feebler with their recurrence.
Let us get his story, Miss Grant," said I
She addressed him nervously : he stood up

I 2

on being spoken to, but sat again on my
motioning to him to resume his chair. I shall
not in this life forget the peculiar magic that
Miss Grant's beauty took on this silent night
in our underground haunt, from the emotions
which were in her ; the struggling of her brave
spirit with the superstitious fears excited by
the negro, and his black face at hand to contrast
her whiteness with. She sat beside but behind
me, having regard to the black man's position ;
and full as my mind was of the fellow's startling
apparition and miraculous recovery — if recovery
it were, and not some baleful bit of fetish
necromancy — I'd find my thoughts scattering
away with confusion when I'd look from the
bland ebony countenance on my left, with the
whites of the eyes glowing out into orange to
the candle light, to the loveliness of the face on
my right, charged with the revelation of new
beauty to every glance I gave it. I had never
heard her speak Spanish before. Nervous and
agitated as she was, the rich syllables of the
noble tongue rolled in honey from her lips, and
as was her face by the negro's, so was the melody
of her Castilian utterance inexpressibly sweetened

and heightened by the hoarse, thick speech of
the red-coated fiend. It was Hke the warning
of a flute alternating with the gong-Hke roll of
a tom-tom.

"What does he say ?" said I, after he had
been spinning a twister lasting over five minutes.

"Why," she answered, "that he woke as if
from a long sleep this evening, some time after
sundown, and found himself lying on the beach
on his back, on the west side of the island, as I
suppose, from his speaking of the situation of
the hummock. He does not know how he
came there. He recollects arriving here this
morning in a boat, and fainting away after
drinking the water you gave him. He says,
after lying a little he rose and walked towards
some trees, where he presently heard a sound
of running waters. It was the brook that he
means. He drank, and then sought for fruit,
but appears to have lost himself in the forest ;
though a little before he made his appearance
he came across the plantains. That is his
story."

Then," said I, looking at him, '' it is no
great mystery after all, though a mighty

wonder all the same. He was not dead, of
course, when he dropped after the drink. Well
now, the big stone that I jammed into his waistcloth
must have rolled out of it when I hove
him over the side. It was a sickening business,
and the instant I had cleared the boat I sculled
up the creek without looking astern. Then
what could have followed ? The poor fellow
floated up on to his back, for he must have
drowned with his face down, and was carried
away by the tide to that part of the island
where he stranded. Had we looked we might
have seen him floating, but we were too busy
with the boat ; and when he had weathered
the spit of sand he would be out of sight to us
at the head of the creek. Ask him if he knows
what this island is ?

She addressed him again, speaking now with
growing confidence, though her first superstitious
fear hung a little lightly upon her. He
shook his head whilst he answered. She spoke
to him afresh, and then told me that he was
not only ignorant oT the name of this island,
but had not the least idea of the situation of
others in these seas ; so there was an end

of my expectations of him as a pilot. She
questioned him further, and his story was to
this effect : — First of all, he and his companion
had been runaway slaves. They stole a boat,
and blew out to sea from somewhere near Point
Mays, thinking to land at Tortuga, but were
sighted and picked up by an English craft, and
where entered as seamen aboard her ; but the
usage they met with was so barbarous, mainly
owing to their inability to understand the
orders addressed to them, that they resolved to
run from the ship at the first opportunity that
offered. A chance was provided by the master
of the vessel bringing up under the lee of an
island, probably not very remote from our own,
to seek shelter, as was to be supposed, from the
storm that had swept these waters the other
niorht. There was a boat ridings astern to a
long line, and when the night came down dark,
and the hands were below, saving the anchor
watch look-out, the blacks dropped over the
side, their dusky skins making their movements
very secret in the gloom, and swam stealthily
to the boat. But it was already blowing with
a bit of a popple on in the bay where the ship

rode, with the flight of the wind scurrying
down the mountain side, and they had scarce
rolled in-board over the gunwale when the line
parted, and they drifted out to sea. So this
was the fellow's story, a bit of which I had
anticipated hours before at the sight of the
shredded strands of the rope. Trusting he
might have a few words of English sufficient
to understand my questions, so as to save
Miss Grant the trouble of inquiring and then
interpreting, I sang out to him —

You speaker English ? "

No, no ; no speaker," he cried, shaking his
head vehemently.

You no sable how to pilot boat ? " I roared.

No speaker, no speaker," he bawled, wringing
his hands ; and then looking at Miss Grant
with eyes full of piteous entreaty, oddly accentuated
by a broad supplicatory grin that
bared his great ivory teeth to the junction of
his jaws almost, he poured out a whole torrent
of words in Spanish to her, clasping his hands
whilst he rattled on, and then dropped plump
on both knees before us when he had finished.

'* What is it all about ? " said I.

** He swears by the Holy Virgin and all the
saints that he does not speak English," said
Miss Grant, "and implores you to believe him
The poor fellow has been horribly cowed by ill-treatment.
He thinks because you are English
you will punish him for not being able to speak
our language."

I motioned to him to rise, and to top the
encouragement of my face I mixed him another
dram, which he drank on his knees, making
some mysterious motion of amity, or perhaps
affection, by holding one arm stiff upright after
the manner of certain South African tribes ;
then rose and seated himself.

"It is getting very late," said I, looking at
my watch ; " there will be a long day before
us in that open boat tomorrow, though pray
Heaven It may not prove longer than a day. I
would urge you to take some rest."

I am not at all sleepy," she replied. " I
am too excited to lie down ; what with this
apparition and the prospect of our sailing tomorrow,
I shall not be able to sleep indeed."

That poor fellow will want to turn in," said
I. '' Rolled up in a rug, he'll lie snug enough

near the furnace. You will not object to his
occupying this room ? "

She looked askant at him, and said a little
doubtfully, '' No, I should have no fear of him
at all but for the really terrifying wonder of his
restoration to life."

Here the negro yawned prodigiously, uttering
a bawling sound as he gaped.

** There is Indeed nothing to be afraid of,"
said I. '' Harmlessness in natures nearly allied
to the animal as his is, is almost always expressed
In the face, and I'd stake my right arm
upon his being honest to the core — abjectly
so indeed. For my part, humanity aside, I
consider It my duty to cherish him. A hand to
help In the boat will be invaluable. Imagine,
for Instance, a dead calm, with the gleam of a
ship's canvas just visible on the horizon from
the low level of the gunwale. Two of us might
manage to row the boat to her ; whereas my
single pair of arms would give up exhausted
long before I was able to rise the ship's hull.
He Is a powerful fellow ; observe the breadth
of his chest. Besides, he is a child of the sun,
and the fittest help in the world for such an

excursion as we are meditating under these
heights, as the Ancient Mariner would call
them."

So speaking I took a rug and handed it to
the black, motioning him to make a bed of it
against the furnace, to which I pointed. He
understood me promptly, grinned gratefully,
and wrapping the rug around him as he stood,
with a proud glance at the embellishment, he
lay down with the docility of a trained dog,
using his arm for a pillow, and in a couple of
minutes was snoring like thunder, sound asleep.
Miss Grant withdrew to the inner room, whilst
I stole up the steps to take a peep at the boat
and see that all was right with her. Her
outline showed black against the sand. The
ebb of water had almost left her dry, and I had
no fear of her. 'Twas a breathless night, with
its odd accompaniment of whistling lizards,
snoring toads, and chirruping crickets. It
wanted but three hours to dawn, and at the
first peep of the sun it was my intention to be
up and away. The slip of moon glowed rustily
over the western rim of the forest, where the
heads of the trees spread like funeral plumes

motionless against the sky. I lingered a little,
earnestly contemplating the heavens in search
of any hints of weather, then went back to the
kitchen and lay down, but not to sleep. Indeed
if the agitation of my spirits at the prospect of
getting away had not kept me restless, I must
have been held so by the negro's snoring. He
now lay flat upon his back with his mouth wide
open, and I can only compare the sounds he
produced to the noise made by the keel of a
boat dragged over shingle.

Presently Miss Grant called softly to know
if I was awake.

Very much awake indeed," said I.

'* All is well whilst he snores like that," she
exclaimed.

Yes," I answered. " But it is happy for us
that he should be our guest for one night only.
Imagine three weeks of this ! "

WE LEAVE THE ISLAND.

I HAVE heard sweeter music in my time than
that negro's snore ; but though it might have
disturbed the repose of the dead, nothing was
ever more comforting and soothing to me, as
you will believe, when I say that I could not
listen to the poor fellow's gasps without reflecting
how very near indeed I had come to
murdering him. My restlessness was a sort of
fever, and six or eight times before the daylight
came, I crept softly up into the open to take a
peep at the boat, and make sure that she lay
safe. Indeed, we had met with so many
surprises on this island, that I was in a manner
prepared for the strangest thing that could
happen ; and I believe had I looked forth out
of the hatch and found the boat gone, whatever

might be the emotions which would have helped
to the madness such a loss must have raised in
me, wonder would not have been of them.

I had made up my mind to steer west, knowing
that the American seaboard lay that way,
to say no more ; but it was very vexing that
the negro should be ignorant of the situation of
this island, and unable to pilot me to the nearest
inhabited land. The joy caused by possession
of the boat had overwhelmed all other considerations
; but now that I lay sleepless upon
my bed of grass and rug, waiting for the skylight
to glimmer out to the dawn, I found myself a
bit disheartened by the prospect of the new
voyage. That there was land down in the west
within view from the ship's masthead, I did not
doubt ; but then it might prove such another
little spot as this, verdant and uninhabited ; in
which case we should have to push on ; and
how far off might the nearest land to it be ? It
was a great ocean, as Miss Grant had said, for
so little a boat. Strange, too, that one of my
minor, seafaring nightmares should be fulfilled
long after I had abandoned the profession, for
I recollect that when I was at sea I would think

with horror of exposure in an open boat, which
to my young imagination threatened an experience
scarce less fearful than the raft.
Indeed, of the two, perhaps, the raft was the less
horrible, for a man was not likely to linger long
on such a contrivance, whereas in an open boat
he might go on languishing for days until he
died, and then be found a skeleton in the bottom
of her, with the little craft afloat and buoyant
after months of different kinds of weather. Nay,
had not that morning indeed illustrated the
significance of the open boat at sea : the deadman
in her, that creature yonder pointing with
ebony forefinger to his mouth filled with froth,
the empty locker, the thirsty, oily smell of the
paint, inside and out, exhaling to the roasting
glare of the sun! Well, well, thought I, the
sort of spirit I require is not to be got out of
thoughts of this kind ; and my eye then catching
the dim, greenish lustre of the dawn, lying like
waning moonshine upon the skylight, I started
up, thanking God for daylight, and feeling that,
let the future hold what it might, the bars of
our prison here were broken, and we could
now free ourselves from an unendurable confinement,

which but yesterday morning was
as hopeless to the heart as the bald sweep of
the sea was to the eye.

'ris that you moving, Mr. Musgrave ? " exclaimed
Miss Grant, from behind her curtain.

"Yes," said I ; 'the dawn has broken. You
have not slept, I fear ? "

No," she answered, " I have not closed my
eyes."

Pray endeavour to get a little sleep," I
exclaimed. " Mumbo-Jumbo here can help mein
the few preparations that remain, and I don't
doubt of making myself understood. Even
an hour's sleep will be helpful. Don't doubt
that I shall call you when we are ready to
get under way," I added, laughing.

She answered me by whipping back the
shawl along the rod, and stepping forth.

How can you talk of sleeping nowe' she
exclaimed; "the instant you are ready, Mr.
Musgrave, let us start."

I was glad to hear her say this. There
was no fear of her hesitating to sail in the little
boat into the vast sea that stretched around :
but I had suspected she would express in her

manner that her mind hung in the wind a trifle,
and that she would show herself a little scared
by a prospect that was far more formidable that
it appeared, as she would know, as well as I.

The negro was snoring as briskly as ever.
Heaven knows, this miserable old kitchen was
only too familiar to us ; yet it seemed to be made
fresh, as though in faith we had stumbled upon
another underground room, by the novelty to
our eyes of that black man, resembling some
immense performing monkey in his red coat,
lying flat on his back, his mouth wide open, his
arms extended, and the palms of his hands
showing like dirty yellow paper inlaid in his skin
to the jetty points of his thumbs and fingers. I
stirred him with my foot, but I probed him in
this way for some time before he opened his
eyes. He then sat up with a glare of astonishment,
whilst he grasped his wool, and whipped
out in a thick, half-awake voice with a string; of
Spanish, sounding like the gurgling of water ina
sucked hubble-bubble. However, he speedily
grew conscious enough to understand Miss Grant
when she informed him that it was time to getup,
and that we wanted him to help us complete

VOL. in. K

our arrangements for promptly leaving the island.
He rose slowly on to his cucumber shanks,
scratching his head with a dull stare of mystification,
as I thought, in his dusky eyes as he
rolled them from me to my companion, and then
addressed her. She answered ; he spoke again
with growing energy ; she nodded, on which, to
my astonishment, he clasped his hands and
dropped upon his knees, and fell to pouring out
a whole jumble of words, the imploring character
of which was rateable from the tone of his
voice.

*' Why, what is the matter with the poor
wretch ? " said I ; '' have his wits left him during
the night ? "

He is entreating me to beg you not to take
him away from the island," said Miss Grant,
viewing him with surprise and pity.

"But does he know," I cried, 'that if we
leave him here he will be all alone ; not another
black even to keep him company ? "

She spoke to him again, motioning to him at
the same time to rise from his knees. Her
question produced a very long answer. His
looks and inflections of speech pronounced him

desperately in earnest. I could not follow a
syllable ; time was pressing, moreover, for I
desired, when afloat, all the daylight I could
get, and I was growing a little impatient, when
Miss Grant turning to me said, '' He desires to
stop here. Indeed, I believe, could you even
carry him to the boat by main force, he would
jump overboard and swim back to the island on
your letting go of him. He says it would belike
being a king in his own country to live in
these fine rooms, and have the island all to
himself."

Humanity forbids it," said I, amazed.
But what is to be done ?" she exclaimed ; and
I instantly echoed the question mentally, when
I glanced at his robust figure, with some stupid
thought of compulsion in my mind, and then
reflected that he might detain us here for hours
whilst we endeavoured to persuade him, without
perhaps altering his resolution, after a most
wearisome course of exhortations and representations,
all of which would have to be
translated if he was to understand them. I
noticed him ogling the old muskets and cutlasses
upon the wall, with a negro's affection for such

K 2

toys kindling in his eye. No good could come
of bothering ourselves over the matter, so I
formed my resolution.

If he won't come, why then of course he
must stop."

He will not come," she exclaimed ; " he Is a
runaway slave, remember, fresh too from being
cruelly treated even when dealt with as a freeman.
He means to stop here, indeed."

Then please tell him, Miss Grant, he may
do as he pleases ; but I should have been glad
to have the use of those brawny arms. He
can't starve, I believe and maybe when he
wishes to leave he'll know how to go to work.
We have no powder, but he is welcome to those
muskets yonder," nodding towards them —
I caught him watching me eagerly as I did so
" and he may as well take possession of all
the traps we must leave behind ; so there'll be
clothes enough for him," said I, with a look at
his shanks, " not to mention some pretty dresses
when he has worn my coats out."

On this being interpreted to the poor fellow,
he burst into a hundred passionate exclamations
of joy, was so convulsed with delight, indeed,

that I expected to see him plump down upon
his nose and roll upon the floor in his ecstasy.
He clapped his hands, made as If to embrace
me, recoiled a step with a frantic skip, leapt with
such agility that he struck his head against the
ceiling with force enough to have stretched him
motionless had his cranium been a white man's.

Pretty good all this," I exclaimed, laughing
in spite of myself, "for a man who was last
night a ghost, and yesterday morning a corpse."

I had nearly completed all necessary preparations
on the preceding day. The halliards
formed of a length of coir rope, the strands
unlaid, halved, and laid up again into a smaller
line, were rove ; the sail of coloured shawls was
bent to the yard. There remained but little
more to do than fill a few outstanding bottles
with water, stow away the craw-fish, and the
like. The boat was a roomy little craft ; yet
though there were but two of us, we found there
would be space for no more than a small bundle
of necessary articles chosen from the luggage
we must perforce leave behind us. I asked
Miss Grant to make a collection of such things
as she mlQ^ht deem needful, taklno; care that at

the utmost the parcel should be but a small one ;
and then putting the negro to the job of filling
the remaining bottles with water from the
brook, I slipped round past the creek for my
morning plunge, from which I returned as much
refreshed as though I had slept soundly all
night. My next act was to climb the hummock,
and take a last view of the sea from a spot
whence I had surveyed it again and again, with
many contending emotions of misery, hope, and
despair. There was nothing in sight, a light
air was fanning out of the north and west, with
weight enough in it to put a blinding twinkling
into the water where it was sun-touched ; the
heavens spread in a soft light blue, without the
phantasm of a cloud anywhere visible. Sheltered
by my wide, sombrero-like hat from the
bite of the sun that, low as he yet hung over
the sea, stung the naked flesh like nettles, I
lingered a little, after bringing my eyes away
from the silken brimming of the blue ocean to
the azure distance where it blended with the
heavens, to rest them for a few minutes upon
the island.

The harsh squawk of the macaw, or some

such fowl, came like the edge of a saw out of
the heavy greenery of the forest ; to every pause
in the fitful blowing of the mornlno^ breeze a
hundred sounds of bird and reptile life on the
island — whistling, croaking, rook-like cawing,
the jabber of green and golden shapes, with
short notes as of bells accompanying, chimes-fashion,
the clear, melodious pipings of the very
few birds who really could sing on that island —
came stealing in a growing volume upon the
ear, then softening again to some hot, soft rush
of the wind that floated the strains of the concert
backwards to the trees. The tall guinea-grass
stirred to the creeping of invisible things ; the
draught of air breeding upon the weather-side
of the forest set the branches dancing, and the
verdure seemed to flash again to the lift of the
foliage, as the silver under-lining; of innumerable
leaves shone out with the stirring of the air.
Maybe I did not loiter above a couple of minutes,
but thought has lightening rapidity, and
I lived again throughout the three weeks wee had
spent on this beautiful island in the few seconds
during which I stood contemplating the sunny
scene. The setting of us ashore by the cold-blooded

rascals of the Iron Crown, the crushing
weight of hopelessness upon us as we sat together
yonder, where the white sand wound in ivory
to the creek, with our luggage heaped about us,
no shelter for our heads, no prospect of deliverance
; then the hollow and startling notes of
the midnight bell, my strange discovery of the
sand-covered hatch, our life in the darksome
chambers underground there, the fright occasioned
by the monkey, and now that boat snug
in the creek yonder ! — memory affected me like
a succession of wild dreams. The mighty surface
of the sea stared blindly at the sky, and
for the life of me I could not repress a shudder
as I glanced at the boat, and thought of the tiny
speck it would presently be making upon that
huge, broiling, merciless expanse.

I broke from my thoughts, and quitted the
hummock with an odd and most bothersome
fancy in me — so perversely does the imagination
steer the mind — of what my cousin Alexander
would say and think, supposing we should live
to tell him the story, of the intimate association
forced upon Miss Grant and myself by the
perils of the ocean, of our living as though wee

were a couple of Indians underground, of our
being thrown together for another spell of yet
deeper intimacy in an open boat — pshaw !
thought I, 'tis high time we got away.

But first it was our business to make as good
a meal as we had appetite for. The negro ate
like a cormorant, and since his resolution was
formed, I hoped for his sake that there would
happen no dearth of turtle whilst he chose to
remain all alone by himself here. It made one
think of Juan Hernandez and the solitary
Mosquito Indian, to look at him. I asked Miss
Grant to again endeavour to persuade him to
accompany us, thinking that the fellow might
now have chauQ^ed his mind. But the moment
he gathered her meaning his face filled with
alarm ; he stared at me so appealingly that it
was impossible to watch him unmoved, and I
think he would have gone down on his knees
again but for something which Miss Grant said
that reassured him.

'* It cannot be helped," said I ; ''he is not a
little boy ; I cannot carry him to the boat. He
may be even more lucky than we — I mean that
a vessel may heave-to ofT here even before he

is tired of the place. Have you collected what
you want, Miss Grant ? "

'' Yes," she exclaimed, rising, and going to
the inner room she brought out a little bundle.
I have shown great self-denial, don't you
think ? " she exclaimed, laughing, as she held it
up.

I did not ask what it contained, though I
afterwards came to learn that it consisted mainly
of a few parcels of letters and bits of jewellery,
and the like, prized entirely for the givers' sake.
'' It seems hard," she added, with a wistful look
at her trunks that showed through the opening,
to leave all my pretty purchases behind. How
patient you were, Mr. Musgrave, when you
accompanied me on my shopping trips ! What
a number of things I could have done without
if this experience had been foreseen ! "

Better," said I, " that this honest negro
should possess them than that they should
have foundered with the Iron Crown ; for the
bottom of the sea was bound to be their destination
had they remained aboard. Now, if
you take my advice, you will put on your
broadest-brimmed hat, and our stock of umbrellas

must go with us, lest a breeze of wind
should carry one or more overboard."

I beckoned to the negro, and I\Iiss Grant
made him understand that he was to carry
certain articles to the boat, and then entering
her room I took down her hammock, which
was a thing that stowed very compactly, and
might be of use to her were we driven ashore
upon such another island as this. I also gave
the negro a good warm cloak to carre a well-lined
garment, that would serve as an excellent
wrap for Miss Grant at night ; but though wee
took these things, there was little more we
conveyed to the boat — my monkey jacket, I
remember, her and my pistols with powder and
ball, a few remaining bundles of cigars, all the
umbrellas we possessed, some rugs, and a few
other items which I need not tax my memory
to recall.

All being ready we slowly left the underground
rooms which had sheltered us for three

weeks, both of us sending: lino-erin o-lances
' 0000

around as we quitted the dreary, dream-like
haunt, and accompanied by the negro walked
to the boat.

She was lying, half the length of her dry,
upon the sand. The negro placed the parcels
he carried in the bottom of her, then came tome,
and letting go the line which held her, we
put our shoulders to the bows, and drove the
craft afloat. I jumped in as she sliced into the
brilliantly clear, calm surface, and throwing one
of the paddles over, got her head round, then
sheered her alongside the bank of the creek, extending
my arm to Miss Grant, who sprang
aboard. My next business was to coil the line
away In the bow, then to thoroughly overhaul
our little ship to see that her freight — more
precious to us, mere craw-fish, turtle, bottles of
fresh water as it was, than the richest treasure
that ever put to sea in the hold of a register
ship — was properly trimmed, and that nothing
the island could supply us with was wanting.
Miss Grant sat in the stern-sheets, sheltered
by an umbrella. The radiance of the early sunshine
came streaming down from the far eastern
sea-line hot as molten silver into the creek,
and the glare of it, rising off the surface to the
face, which it stung as though the lustre was
formed of flaming needles, furnished a mighty

uncomfortable hint of the sort of roasting that
awaited us outside, when the luminary should
rise to the middle of the sky. I threw the paddles
over, and rowed slowly down the creek.
There was no draught of air to be felt here,
though the water outside was wrinkling to the
fiery breathing that came softly out of the northwest.
The negro walked along the bank to the
edge of the spit, where, drawing his figure erect,
he held his right arm high, and so stood watching
us motionless, like a black statue whose
nobly-proportioned trunk and arms some fool
had smeared with red paint. I noticed my
companion gaze wistfully landwards as we drew
out. You saw in the expression of her eyes
how busy her memory was, with a change in
their soft, brilliant depths into a look of mingled
wonder and uncertainty rather than of dismay,
as they went seawards from the bright vegetation,
the arid hummocks, and the tracks of
white sand, whitening out from the dense
undergrowth to the long space of dazzling
coral platform on which the blue breaker was
melting.

There was scarce an experience of mine on

yonder island that did not recur to me as a
passage In a dream might, so vague did the
memory of It offer to my imagination through
the sheer strangeness of the whole adventure.
But nothing approached the dreaminess which
the reality of this our departure took. It was
not only the feeling that we were leaving the
place for good — a prison from which we had
again and again feared we should never have
power to deliver ourselves ; — no ! the realization
of escape, when the hope of escape has long
lain dead, will always affect the mind at the
first start as something visionary, something
that one durst not believe. But It was not that
only. It was the manner also of our going. It
might have seemed to a strange eye, ignorant
of the truth, as though this young girl and I
were some young bride and bridegroom, with a
little summer ocean home hidden away among
the cool trees up there, and that we were starting
upon a pleasure cruise, intending maybe a
survey of our tiny principality, to which we
should be returning anon. This was my fancy
as we glided down the creek, and It was this
that made the thing as unreal as a dream to me.

It was fitter for a summer Thames scene than
an illustration of human distress at sea. Who
would have imagined, watching me in shirt and
trousers and shoes, bare-armed, slowly plying
the flashing paddles — who would have conceived,
observing the quiet figure of the girl
seated aft draped in white, carefully sheltering
her face, the shadow of her wide hat enriching
her warm beauty with the softness of the tint it
made, though there was sparkle enough in the
water alongside to touch her hair with a delicate
light of gold — that we were quitting the island
in search of succour, that we had launched ourselves
on a boat voyage which might prove
darker with peril to us than the blackest hour
we had yet passed since we boarded the Iron
Crown in the Downs, that instead of a sultry
morning jaunt alongside we were going to lose
ourselves in the heart of the mighty ocean
yonder, with no further hope in the result than
we could get from confidence in the Divine
Guidance ?

Once clear of the creek I hoisted our sail of
shawls, flattening in the sheet and putting the
helm down to test the little craft's capacity of

looking up to it. The colours of the shawls
were red, white, and blue, and at a distance the
boat sliding out of the creek might have passed
for a huge aquatic parrot, outward bound on
some predatory excursion. The negro, with his
figure standing boldly out at the extremity of the
tongue of sand, now held up both arms, slowly
moving his hands at the wrists. It looked as if
he were blessing us, but I suppose it was his
country's way of saying goodbye. Miss Grant
waved her hand to him, and I bade him farewell
with a flourish of my hat, whereupon he turned
on a sudden and ran with incredible swiftness
to the underground rooms, down whose hatchway
he shot with the rapidity of a skip-jack
plunging from its leap out of water, and so
vanished.

"He has gone to clothe himself," said Miss
Grant.

'' Wonderful how he could have held out
so long," said I ; " the desire to squeeze himself
into my patent leather boots and frock-coat,
not to mention my green satin stock and several
coloured shirts which he will come across, must
have risen into madness whilst he stood holding

up his arms. One guesses that by the rush he
made when nature gave in. And now, Miss
Grant, how is this Httle craft going to serve
us ? "

There was, as I have said, a draught of air
fiery hot as the wafting of the atmosphere of a
furnace blowing out of the north-west, with just
weight enough to keep the water winding, and
to thread it here and there with long, silken,
dark blue shadows with the heavier scorinof of
its sparkling pressure. I hauled the sheet of
the sail as flat as it would come, but could not
get the boat's head round to within six points of
this air ; and even at that, when she had got way
enough upon her to set the water slobbering and
tinkling a bit along her clinker-built sides, I
noticed a leewardly trend that sent her fathom
or two of wake, oil-smooth with a few holes of
eddies in it, veering away upon the weather
quarter. I had no compass, and when we lost
sight of land there would be nothing but the
sun or stars to steer by ; meanwhile however I
made up my mind to head away north, keeping
the boat as close as she would lie, and then supposing
the breeze to hold, when we had put
VOL. in. L

the island a mile or two astern, to go about on
the starboard tack, and blow away as best we
could, south and west, partly with the hope of
rising the land in the west before sundown, and
partly with the expectation of thrusting into the
fairway south ; for it was nearly always in the
south quarter that the sails we had sighted from
the hummock hove into view, with one or two
in those three weeks gliding blue and ghostly
in the far east, but none that ever we saw north
or west.

Our sail should make a brilliant signal,"
exclaimed Miss Grant, " if a ship should come
within view of it."

'eyes," said I, "that was the thought in me
when I hoisted it. Red, white, and blue, the
proper sort of colour for English hearts to beat
under. Quashed's soul will have yearned for
them. The red shawl would have made him a
fine turban ; indeed it would be finer as a turban
than as a sail," I added with a glance at the
yawns where the shawls had been taped
together.

Yet the fabric was giving the boat some sort of
way, and the island was slowly dwindling. It

looked a radiant, gem-like spot now upon the
ocean, that brimmed with a line of silver to the
white sand. I sat watching it, the boat steering
herself, for which I was mightily thankful, for the
little tiller I had shipped grew into a heated bar
of iron to the touch, and my bare knuckles felt as
if they were flayed after keeping my hand spread
to the sun a few minutes. I could not but hope
that I was acting rationally in quitting the island
in this little boat, for the solid land there at least
supplied a certainty of refuge, which induced a
wild emotion of misgiving when I glanced away
at the huge sea, and thought of the gale that
had swept it the other night. Yet we had both of
us pined and prayed for such an opportunity of
escape as had now come, and there seemed
something like the profanity of ingratitude in
hesitation, natural and reasonable as mismvine
was at such a time.

I was startled from the reverie into which I
had plunged by a sudden exclamation from ?bliss
Grant, who sat near me bending over the side.
She pointed down into the water, shrinking a
little as she did so, with an expression of consternation
glittering in her glance and dilating

L 2

her eyes as she looked round at me. I peered
over and saw immediately below, scarce six feet
deep in the clear, blue, glass-like profound, the
long dark form of a great shovel-nosed shark,
with the upper barb of its tail rounding out like
a scythe, the whole outline absolutely motionless,
without a tremor in its fins that I could witness,
though we were sliding along at some two or
the miles in the hour, and the thing held its
position as though it were our shadow. For
the life of me I could not help a sudden recoil.
It was as big and ugly a monster of the kind as
ever I had seen, and by simulating, as it were,
the reflection of our boat, furnished an appalling
mockery in that way to the imagination — to
mine, at least, which instantly went to work to
construe the grim and foul adumbration into a
foreshadowing of our fate.

But I pulled myself together quickly, and said,
One cannot sail these waters without sights
of this kind happening. Stop ! he may be routed
out of this."

I took an oar and plunged it harpoon-wise at
the brute, and struck him fair on the back. Ugh!
the touch, the feel of it threw me into a cold

sweat. It would have been otherwise with me
had I barbed the beast, but the soft slippery
contact was Hke the blow of a baby's fist upon
the snout of a tigress. Yet It startled the
creature nevertheless. With a sweep of Its tail
it drove ahead, sending a shoal of bubbles to
the surface, with a line of sparkles In the blue
beneath, and when we came to look for It again
it was not to be seen on either side the boat. I
met Miss Grant's eye thoughtfully fixed upon
mine. The whole weight of my responsibility
came upon me then, somehow. I knew that
her trust was in me — that wherever I led she
would follow in full faith in my judgment.
Her life had grown so precious to me, that the
mere fancy of imperilling it by any resolution I
might form, hoping always for the best, was
unendurable. I sent a glance Into the hot azure
distance, then at the island, then met her eyes
afresh.

*' If you are in the least degree timid — it Is
not too late. We can be ashore again In an
hour," I exclaimed.

I am not timid," she replied ; " the sight of
that great fish frightened me. Why should we

return ? Here is our chance for escaping ; why
should we neglect it ? "

*' True ; but often bitter perils and privations
attend attempts of this kind." I rejoined. " Your
life is dear to me, Miss Grant ; " her lips stirred,
but I did not catch what she said. *' Is it right,"
I continued, "that I should subject you to the
risks and exposure of such a venture as this ? I
may have acted in too great a hurry, scarcely
shown prudence in my hot desire to break from
that jail there. This proposal now occurs tome.
Let us return to the island. The negro
will help me in my new plan. Here is a boat
in which he or I may every day row or sail
away into the southward, which is apparently
the navigated tract of these waters, and it will
be strange indeed if we do not meet with some
vessel before honos to which we can make our
condition known."

You would take me with you on such excursions
? "

No need. I should leave you on the island
until we could obtain help."

She shook her head. " No," she exclaimed
slowly, with great emphasis ; and then she

added, " Imagine the evening to come on one
day and no sign of your boat. The night passes,
and next day, and then weeks pass, and I am
still alone. Oh, Mr. Musgrave, how can you
suggest such a thing ? When we were set ashore
you said It made you happy to think that we
were together. That was my happiness too,"
she continued, dropping her eyes for an Instant,
and then llftinof them ao;-ain to mine, '' and now
you will risk a separation — that — that — " She
shook her head again almost bitterly, but smiled
a moment after. " Besides," she went on, as
though she had no patience to hear me, nor
indeed meant to give me a chance to speak,
you would not get the negro to accompany
you. No threats, no entreaties would prevail
upon him, I am sure. He would dread to be
recaptured. He has that Island all to himself
now, and a hole to live In, and Is as free as a
monkey In any forest In Brazil, and should you
attempt to persuade or force him, what might
happen ? Another mutiny, Mr. Musgrave,
more dreadful than the one on board the Iron
Crown, with a chance of his taking your life,
and of my being left alone with him ! "

''Be it so," I said ; " we are together, and
together we will remain — at least for the
present," I added, cooling down my voice suddenly
to check the gathering ardency of it.

She made no answer.

A DAY OF PERIL.

By four o'clock In the afternoon I reckoned
the island to be about two leagues distant,
scarce visible, so low it lay, save when the
slide of the boat to the brow of the swell
showed it " dipping," as they say at sea — just a
blot of indigo blue upon the gleam running toit,
and against the whitish azure behind. i\t
about this hour the small, scorching breeze,
that had held fairly steady from the north-west
since the early morning, died away as though
devoured out of the atmosphere by the blazing
eye overhead, and the deep turned into liquid
glass, with the heave of it due east. It was
not an undulation to notice from a ship's side,
or from the low elevation of the island ; but tous
In that boat it seemed as heavy as a strong

sea, with the rise of it putting the horizon out
of sight one moment, and the next making the
bright Hne look to spread twice as far as it
went in reality. One may talk of getting a
sense of the mightiness of the deep when
aboard a great ship that is hove by the surge
with her thousand tons of freight, and the
massive fabric of her spars and rigging roaring
into the gloom of the tempest as a boy tosses a
ball ; but it is surely in the little open boat that
one feels the power of the giantess most. You
lie close to her heart, you feel the beating of it,
your eyes are within arm's-length of the
mysteries under her shining breast, the spirit
within you takes measure of the volume and
altitude of her respirations, and you are oppressed
by an indeterminable emotion of awe,
of a kind different from any the mind is sensible
of in viewing the sea from an elevation,
whether it be the edge of a range of coast or
the rail of a tall vessel.

I had put the boat's head round for the southward
a little time before the stark calm fell, but
without her measuring a quarter of a mile of
water in the time, I should say, so faint grew

the breeze whilst slowly slackening into breathlessness.
I said to Miss Grant that I could
not imagine it hotter in the most scorching
circle of Dante's Inferno. Why, I had but to
stand up and let my arms hang up and down,
and the sweat drained from my fingers' end, as
though I had just been fished out of the sea.
It was not the blaze coming down that one felt
so much as the dazzle that rose off" the edge of
the water, lifting into the face as though from
polished copper, and making one writhe and
twist about in search of the shelter that neither
umbrella nor hat could provide. At one or
thereabouts we had made a little meal of
plantains and craw-fish, along with a small
draught from one of the bottles ; and then —
though there was wind enough blowing to keep
the feeling of fever out of the blood — even then
I remember contemplating our stock of provisions
with a melancholy eye as I ruminated
upon the perishable qualities of them. But
when this "furious calm," as the Spaniards call
it, came, the fear I had for our food deepened.
Though everything was cooked barring the
fruit, it seemed cock-sure to me that our

miserable store of boiled turtle and the like
must putrefy right away off, and leave us
nothing but our oranges and bananas to eat.
We were without bread, biscuit, flour. People
putting away from a ship in our condition will,
for the most part, unless they are very unfortunate
indeed, carry with them food that defies
climate — meat in tins, bags of bread, with other
matters designed for seafaring use. But two-thirds
of our stock might not keep sweet
through the night, and the very plantains methought
must rot speedily to such a blasting and
withering eye as the sun looked down upon us
with. But though now and again I would send a
wistful glance at the blue smudge in the distance
whenever it showed, I said nothing. The die
was cast, we had to abide by the throw.
It would have been wanton in me to suggest
a return to the island after what Miss
Grant had said ; and as to the provisions, I
comforted myself with reflecting that the cocoa-nuts,
at all events, would hold their virtue,
whilst I also considered that I had done my
best — that what the island yielded we had
taken — and that no man, though he thought



with the spirit of a prophet in him, could
do more.

Miss Grant made no complaint. It was
seldom that I met her eye but that she had a
smile. It seemed to me that now she was confronted
with something tangible, a condition she
could realize, a situation of which the issue,
whether life or death, was within the grasp of
her mind, her spirit rose to it. It would make
me shrink at times to cast a look around the
sea, for when the island disappeared the vast
solitude in which wee floated became sheer
ocean to every sense, full of the desolation
which the distressed heart would give to it, and
which there was nothing In the glory of the
day to mitigate. But her eyes sought the
distance fearlessly ; twenty moods alternated in
her, as I saw in her varying expression ; but no
hint of timidity was ever visible in one of them.
Indeed it was the heroic tranquillity of her look
that kept me still. The heat tried me fearfully,
the dead calm was like a sensible weight upon
my spirits ; I had worked hard on the previous
day, and had not closed my eyes for twenty-four
hours ; and such was my temper, as I satin

that small scorched boat dodging the swing
of our preposterous sail for the idle comfort of
the shadow of it, that I needed but a face opposite
me to reflect mine to have exhausted myself
with grumbling and lamentations, and maybe
to have resolved, the instant the cool of the
evening came, to hark back again for the island
as nimbly as our paddles would sweep us there.
However, I got the better of all this unmanly
weakness after the sun went down ; though
whilst he was going I could have stood up and
shaken my fist, as Tom Cringe did, at the
vast red, rayless body that looked, as his lower
limb hovered a moment or two on the sea-line,
to be sipping the blood streaming from his own
fiery substance into the water beneath him.
There was no air, not the fluttering of a breath,
to touch with the shadowing of a feather the
immeasurable liquid surface breathing In oil
with the sluggish panting of some sentient thing
half dead with the day-long pouring of the
luminary upon It. Whilst the last beam of daylight
sent Its red flash across the sea, with a
running of the crimson stream of wake to the
orb as though 'twere a length of cloth of purple

gold that he dragged off the sea with him as he
slipped down the side, I stood up on the thwart
with my arm around the mast, and carefully
scrutinized the horizon. There was nothing, to
see, no longer even the island's dim shadow,
which was already absorbed by the airy gloom
creeping with tropic stealthiness and celerity also
into the atmosphere now that the hour of sundown
was passed. I lowered the sail to save
the chafe of it, and carrying a bunch of plantains
into the stern-sheets, made with Miss Grant a
little supper of them, helped with a bit of cold
turtle.

■''Do you remember," she said, 'when we
walked too-ether at Deal on that moonlight
night, the day before we sailed, that I said the
beauty of the sea frightened me with its immensity,
that the magnitude of its sublimity was
an oppression which forbade delight ? I remember
some fancy of the kind occurring to me,"
she said, musingly, her face stealing out pale
in the shadow, with a corresponding deepening
of the luminous dusk of her eyes. •' But how
should such beauty as this," glancing round, and
then up at the sky that in the east was already

velvet-like, with the young moon in the midst
of it, whilst the stars seemed literally to shower
out upon the gaze if you did but watch any
space in the-heavens for a little, " affect people
situated as we ? How tremendous it all is, Mr.
Musgrave ! There was never this sort of repose
on the island. Listen ! "

I strained my ear, whilst she looked at me
with a faint smile.

'* Not a sound," she exclaimed, after a few
moments ; *' not a breath, not a whisper of air.
Ashore there was always the simmering of the
surf, some stirring of breeze or pinions amidst the
foliage, and the song of the crickets, and the rest
of the midnight concert. But here ; oh, listen ! "

She paused again, with her hand lifted.

'* Holy Mother of God ! " she cried, with a
passionate toss of her arms. '' Only think of
being alone in this boat ! "

'* I don't think my loneliness would last anyhow,"
said I; "I guess, as Jonathan says, I
would give myself about two such nights as this
to have a whole ship's company of spectres along
with me. There are plenty of green navies
under our keel for marine phantoms to rise up

out of. Yes," said I, pulling a cheroot from my
pocket for the blessed solace of the mere smell
of the weed, " it would not take me two such
nights as this to introduce a very attractive
society betwixt these gunwales. With my
mind's eye I already see it clearly : here, where
you are sitting, some mariner that fell overboard
when Columbus was sailing this way, his
eyes full of Spanish fire, mustachios curled
upon his cheeks, and the body sheathed in old
metal, for they wore armour in those times,
though I won't swear that the forecastle Jacks
went so clad ; yonder in the bows a grim old
buccaneer, some tough, sun-blackened rogue of
the days of James I., wearing a spiked beard,
and grizzled locks flowing upon his back, a great
fusee across his knee, and a murderous hanger
against his hip ; it is not hard to see him sitting
yonder in the bows, his arms folded, his head
drooped, and a falcon-look fixed upon me under
the sleepy lid Why, INIiss Grant, these imaginations
won't do, you know," 1 added, chipping
at a little flint for a light ; "but this silence is
wonderful though, and Lord, how the dew
falls ! "

VOL. III. M

It was the dark roll of the swell perhaps that
rendered the hush more oppressive to one's
thinking of it ; for the silence with which the
folds swung along put an inexpressible quality
of ghostliness into the reality of the dusky run
of the water. Expectation seemed to crave for
sound with the sio^ht of such voluminous movement,
and it made me feel deaf sometimes to
look at it and hear nothing.

You would suppose that a couple placed as
we were would find nothing to talk about but
our situation, of ships heaving in sight, of the
time our stock of provisions and water would
last, and so forth. Instead, we conversed on
any other subject. Not that we desired to shun
such topics ; we would recur to them at intervals ;
but in the main our chat was on matters in which
it seemed almost like a sort of impiety to take
interest at such a time as this. I very well
recollect that, one thing leading to another, she
gave me a description of society at Rio, of the
balls, the dresses, the dances ; how the English
held aloof; the brutal treatment of negroes by
blacks who, having been themselves slaves, had
ended by becoming the possessors of slaves.

There were long spells at a time when wee forgot
where we were in listening to one another. I
had been struck by her exclamation when she
spoke of how she should feel were she alone In
this boat, and asked her if she was a Roman
Catholic.

"No," she exclaimed; 'how strange, now,
that vre should have been together for so long a
while, and that you should not know what my
faith is ! "

Not so strange if you will but think of it,"
said I. " There are no churches at sea, and
old Breakwater's discipline was not of a sort
to furnish one with a chance of discovering a
fellow-passenger's religion. "

My mother died a Catholic. She wished
me to be of her faith, and of the faith of her
forefathers. My father belonged to the Kirk,
Mr. Musgrave, and my mother was a very
sweet, yielding, docile woman, and I am glad
it Is with me as It is, though I feel that to be
good Is to be all. To be able to say that if
God can read your heart you need not be afraid.
Is to be happy within yourself — "

Hark ! what was that ? We both started. A

M 2

Strange sound came sweeping along the polished
brows of the undulating water, as though some
steamer at the distance of a mile or two were
letting off steam at regularly respiratory intervals.
It was a long, seething, blowing noise,
followed by the sharp showering sound of water
foaming into water from the height of a cataract.
It was right astern of us. I turned and peered
into the dimness there, but could see nothing.
'what is it, do you think, Mr. Musgrave ?"
The girl's question was answered by the
sudden upheaval of a long black line floating
up like the keel of an inverted ship, with a
brilliant sparkling of phosphorescent light all
along the ebon side of it, off which rose a faint
gleam to the reflection of the horn of moon and
to the shine of the planets and bright stars in
the wet blackness, instantly followed by the
same steamlike hissing we had before heard,
only that it was now so close the blast of it
came tingling to the ear through the dead
hush ; and with this sound there rose into the
dusk a great feather-shaped, cloudy spout of
water, green as emerald, and radiant as though
it were vapour illuminated by the glare of a

signal-light with the sea-fire that swarmed in
it.

"A big whale, by Jove!" said I, 'rand unpleasantly
near to us too."

Indeed the black mass had risen within
pistol-shot ; but the very element of fear its
proximity induced deepened the impressiveness
of the dark grandeur, the majestic, mysterious
beauty of the show. Oh, never to be forgotten
was the sight of that leviathan shadow oozing
out of the indigo leafless stagnation, looking
half a mile long with the loom of it upon the
clear obscure, the sea rippling in fire against its
sides, and its liquid spout shooting up into a
column like a dull green flame, arching over at
its summit as though curled by a breeze of
wind, and falling in a burning shower into the
water that flashed to the discharge, till the
curved substance of the ho; fish loomed as hand
black again as it was against this mystic
radiance of its own making. Presently the
huge shape melted out, but some time afterwards
it spouted afresh down in the south-west,
the bulk of it rising fair in the slender feathering
of silver under the moon, whilst a second

monster blew about a mile away down in the
north, the sounds following one another through
the silence for all the world like some mighty
giant rumbling into a few snores in his sleep ;
and then we saw no more of the creatures,
though the notion that there might be others
about kept us both exceedingly uneasy with the
fancy of a sudden shattering hoist-up stewards
with the rising of one of these monsters under
our keel, its blow-hole right amidships of us.

Not a breath of air yet. You saw the exquisite
polish on the water in the untarnished
flake of some large star's reflection as it rode
the black brow of the swell, widening as it
went. During such dead hours as these I knew
there would be no earthly chance for us ; for, as
I have long ago said, steam was not as it is now.
There was but sail to think of, and nothing
could be stirring on such a night. The atmosphere
was heavy with dew that made it cool.
The thwarts and the line of the boat's gunwale
sparkled with the moisture as though crystallized.
I shipped my pea-coat to keep my shirt
dry, and wrapped a shawl round Miss Grant.
As bad a part as any of it all was the want of

space ; the cramped feeling that came Into the
body with the very look of our narrow quarters,
let alone the reality of them. She was a fat
boat happily, of a lubberly, motherly roundness,
like the half of an apple, staunch and comparatively
new, an honest ship's quarter-boat, in a
word, worth dollars enough I dare say to have
brought some evil muttering into the throat of
the skipper of the ship she had belonged to,
when he peered over the stern and found her
gone. Her beam and the heaviness of her
build, that gave her a firm seat on the water,
enabled us to move without fear of capsizing
her, and from time to time I would give Miss
Grant my hand, and get her to step from thwart
to thwart for the ease and comfort of the motion
after the long spells of cramped sitting.

At last it came to an hour when I told her
she must lie down and sleep.

I shall be able to doze as I sit here, I am
sure," she answered.

Be guided by me, my dear Miss Grant.
Every bone In you will ache like the gout if you
slumber seated on this hard board with your
back against the side. See, now, the sort of

bed I have had in my mind for you all
along."

I placed a strapped rug In the bottom of the
boat, close against the stern-sheets, to serve asa
pillow, then spread other rugs along with
shawls, as a mattress, reserving yet a rug, for
we were well supplied in this way, to cover
her with.

Now," said I, ''if you will remove your hat,
and pull the hood of your cloak over your head
and He down, you will rest as comfortably as
ever you did in your underground room."

'^ Why will you not take some rest first, Mr.
Musgrave ? I can keep watch, if indeed any
sort of watchfulness is necessary on such a
death-like night as this. Sleep whilst you can.
There may come a change of weather which
will prevent you from obtaining repose. You
can trust me to awaken you if the need for
doing so should happen."

But I said no ; she had not closed her eyes
last night. I would call her by and by, and
then she could relieve me, as the sea-saying is.
She would have remonstrated, but I took her
hand, pressed it to my lips, with a gentle courting

of her, by retaining her hand, to leave her
seat, so without saying more she removed her
hat, turned that I might adjust the hood to her
head, and lay down. I covered her carefully,
snugging her little feet which extended under
the thwart, and then fitted a small umbrella
over her head to shelter it from the dew. I
asked her If she was comfortable, peering as I
spoke under the umbrella at the delicate glimmer
of the beauty of her brow and cheek In the
shadow there. She answered gently, yes ; and
disengaging her hand from the shawl, extended
It to me.

'' How good you are, how kind you are ! "
she exclaimed. " Oh, Mr. Musgrave, how
would It have been with me but for you ? and
how do I repay you ? — by bringing you Into
these cruel experiences and wretched adventures."


I again pressed my lips to her fingers, that
being the only answer I dared make just then,
and sat down to chip in an agitated way at my
tinder-box for a light to consume the cheroot
that was but half smoked out. When I hear
people talk of romantic situations, picturesque

surroundings, and the like, I sometimes look
back and recall that night, and put it before me.
Romance ! — let the reader, if he be a man, take
my place in fancy — as my place then was — and
shut his eyes and think. Why surely, if poetry is
ever to be found in conditions of human distress,
I fancy you will find the sanctification of it in our
situation this night in an open boat — alone —
amidst the scarce visible undulations of the dark
ocean, stretching with a measureless shadow
into the liquid gloom that looked as far off as
the celestial lights which shone in it ; alone ! —
but the more alone for the sight of the stars trembling
their multitudinous, unsympathetic gaze
at us — eyes as they seemed to me of countless
phantoms heedful of us only out of curiosity —
with the vast silence between, that you fell asa
breathless pause up there, as if some expected
end were at hand which the Spirit of Night,
inclining towards us with respiration checked,
was awaiting. And that was not all either ;
indeed it was the least part of it to my mood
then. Add the lovely form of the woman, for
whom my passion was already deep if secret,
reposing at my feet. The eyes of a lover's

imagination, like those of a cat or an owl, see
best in the dark ; and the wan gleam of her
face — for a gleam the whiteness of it looked —
was wrought by my fancy into the damask
beauty and rich impassioned glances of the
sunlit reality ; till, though she lay there vague
as the dusk could make her, she yet slumbered
before me in her perfections, so that through a
long spell of that watch 'twas a sort of doting
with me, from which I was not to be broken
away by an occasional thought of Alexander
clipping in between.

Indeed, I was beginning to think that I had
earned this woman ; that our association was
now, as it had been all along, of a kind to
render possession an obligation ; nor was my
honour any longer startled by such fancies.
In love, I suspect a man's conscience towards
others is sensitive as his passion is weak. His
fine talk of duty is proportioned to the slenderness
of his stake of emotion. As his heart sinks
into a woman's, moral obligations are left behind,
floating atop like bladders whose support he no
longer requires. Whilst I sat swaying with the
heave of the boat, sucking at my cheroot, my

mind went to Alexander, and I thought to myself,
as I glanced at the sleeping girl, and then
swept my sight over the great desolation of the
star touched sea, Does not my cousin deserve
this ? Has he not brought it about ? He knew
that I was a single man, accentuated it, Indeed,
that he might correct any hesitation in me. He
was also aware that I was young. Was It justin
him to urge upon me a long shipboard intimacy
with a beautiful woman, and expect me
to emerge unscarred from such commerce,
whole-hearted, capable of resigning her with a
smile and a handshake, as if she were some
parcel of precious stones of which he was the
consignee ? When the hour to surrender her
arrives, I thought, looking down — but, Lord,
will it ever arrive ? And I remember shuddering
wildly and on a sudden, with an Involuntary
hugging of my pea-jacket to me, as though a
chill had come Into my marrow, to the presence
of this high and sparkling night, and to the
black sweep of the sea-line, and to the solitude
made awful by the silence and enormous by the
low-lying stars.

I dropped my extinguished fragment of cigar

/J

over the side. The water was so full of fire
that the fall of this mere morsel of leaf chipped
a flash out of it like a spark from a horse's
hoof against a flint ; and as though the lambent
flame had ignited some fantastic firework shape
beneath it, there sparkled out, green and bright,
the huge outline of a shark, the beast of the
afternoon maybe. The creature looked as if it
were the sketch of such a thing, painted by a
brush dipped In flame in the dark water. It
was moving stealthily ; the tremor of its fins
made just a little showering of spangles at those
extremities, with a thin, green, fiery vein of
wake streaming out from its tail like a rubbing
of phosphorus on the wall of a darkened room.
The shining configuration drove ahead a short
way past the bows, and then the lines of light
blackened out, whereby I knew that the beast
had come to a stand. But the shape shone
again presently, heading towards the moon's
reflection, and vanished. However, It was
horribly uncomfortable to feel that such a
creature was lurking near, and it checked my
romancing in a most magical manner. I could
think no more of Alexander. My yearning

now was for a breeze. But the star-flakes rode
as unbarred as droppings of quicksilver upon
the swing of the swell, and there was not the
sound of a sigh of air to be caught stealing
through the silence of the night.

It would be about three o'clock in the
morning — some three-quarters of an hour
before dawn at all events — that Miss Grant
suddenly sat up with a little exclamation of
astonishment, to which cramp might have
added a note of its own.

Oh !" she cried, '* I have been dreaming. I
did not know where I was. Pray help me up,
Mr. Musgrave."

The dawn will be here shortly," said I ;
'why not sleep the night out ? "

The dawn ! Then you have let me take
more than my share of rest. Pray help me up,
I have slept soundly."

On this I cleared away the umbrella,
removed the shawl that wrapped her about,
and assisted her on to her feet,

Still the same dead calm," she exclaimed,
looking round her. " Now, Mr. Musgrave,
you will please lie down."

/3

'' No, I can get the forty winks I want here
quite comfortably."

But you will go on talking, if you sit
instead of luring down, and thus a second night
will pass without your having closed your
eyes."

But I don't need to plank it to sleep," said
I. " I won't talk, I promise you. Observe
now how in earnest I am," and so saying, I
turned up the collar of my coat, folded my arms,
and let drop my chin in a proper sleeping
posture ; and sure enough, in less than three
minutes I was in a sound slumber, for I never
could have imagined how worn out I was until
I shut my eyes and fairly got under way for a
doze.

It seemed to me that I had not been
sleeping five minutes when I was awakened by
Miss Grant moving ; I started, and found myself
leaning my full weight against her, my head
very coolly resting upon her shoulder.

I am so grieved to disturb you," she said ;
but a little breeze has sprung up, with some
clouds darkening down in the west there, and I
knew you would wish me to arouse you."

The dawn lay green to starboard, a queer,
most melancholy smudge of muddy light, looking
to ooze rather than to flow up into the
dusk, as though it was some dull, thick,
luminous atmosphere lifting with difficulty
against the palpable obscure. The raven-hued
sea-line ran straight as a rule against it. A
twinkling of running waters was in the air, with
delicate seething noises of ripples coursing
nimbly into foam. Indeed, it was blowing a
pleasant breeze of wind, with a hint of briskness
presently in the hum of it sweeping out of the
western gloom ; with the stars all eclipsed
down these by range upon range of dusky
shadows, which gave a significance to this wind
that woke me to my full senses promptly
enough, I can tell you, as soon as ever my
sleepy eye turned to the larboard seaboard.

Due west, as I live!" said I, 'since that
faintness yonder must be in the east. Heaven
deliver us ! Why couldn't this blessed air have
come away with the sun ? "

It may give us the sight of a ship though,"
she exclaimed, " let it blow whence it will."

"Ay," said I, *' and thanks for that grain of

comfort. But it is abominably mortifying
nevertheless. Needs must, however, where Old
Nick drives, and so, Miss Grant, for a ratch to
the southward, if our shawls will suffer this
little hooker to look that way."

I rose, and added, *' How good of you pillow
my head ! We are supposed to be irresponsible
in our sleep ; but I think I showed myself pretty
rational — I might have swayed towards the gunwale
instead — but you should have shaken me
off"

"Indeed," she answered quietly, 'you did
sway towards the gunwale, and that you might
rest, with some little comfort, I coaxed your
head to my shoulder."

** And it went willingly enough, I don't doubt,"
said I, somehow wishing she had made more
of this by her voice, for it was too dark yet to
see the expression of her face. But then it
was impossible not to forget at moments that
she and I were alone.

I laid hold of the halliards and masthead
the yard, and bringing the sheet aft, got it flat
with a good lee helm, and in a moment or two
the breezy ripples were washing along the

VOL. III. N

boat's bends ; but though I dragged the sheet
as flat as I durst, dreading to rend the shawls
by too hearty a pull, I found I could not bring
the dawn, that was brightening fast, on our lee-beam.
In fact, the sun rose broad upon our
bow, and there were we heading away southeast,
with a westerly breeze in chase of us, and
no chance of the boat making a better course,
trim as I might. But this, like everything else
that had happened, could not be helped. So
soon as the sunlight flashed fair over the sea, I
stood up and took a long look around, then
seated myself again with a momentary sickening
of heart to the bitter familiar sterility of the
broad spread of ocean. There was no sign of
our island either, though it was impossible it
could be many miles below the horizon. The
clouds that at dawn had looked swollen and dark
as thunder, showed white and swelling as snow-covered
mountains now that the sunlight was
upon them ; but though they rose slowly, I was
sure they meant wind, the more so from the
colour of the sky floating out of them, a
dimmish blue, moist and filmy, to where it
brightened into the dazzle of the sun. But

spite of its being a bad wind for us, the sound
of it in the air, the sparkling movement of the
waters, the life that the blowing put into the
whole scene, came grateful as a relief after the
clock calm of yesterday and the night. Some
hope was to be got out of it, at all events ; not a
flicker of foam but that might at any moment
changeintothestar-likeshining of canvas ; whereas
the roasting tranquillity of the hours we had
passed through, topped by the deadness of the
night, forbade so much as a wistful fancy in that
way.

I glanced at my companion to observe how
she was weathering this bad time. There was
a little languor perhaps in her eyes, a suggestion
of weariness in the set of her lips, and her
face was pale ; but I witnessed nothing beyond ;
no symptom of the haggardness which follows
long exposure, and the sort of anxiety that is
bred by the constant confronting of danger.
She met my gaze with a smile full of spirit, and
patience, and serenity.

You are bearing all this far better than I
should have dared hope," said I, "but some
sort of end must be at hand surely. Why, it

N 2

would imperil the reputation of a writer of
romance as an artist to add in his book even
but one more adventure to the catalogue we
have left astern."

'' We have been so mercifully watched over sofar,"
she answered, *' that I am sure we need
not fear what remains to come. And then when
it is all over how small it will seem !" I shook
my head doubtingly. '* Oh yes," she cried, 'rit
is the same with all sorts of trouble. People
whether are ill think they can never forget their
sufferings ; but they do, or at least they make
very little of them when they get well. It is like
the weather that is hot or cold, or wet or dry,
outside the memory of the oldest inhabitant.
But it passes from the mind, and at the end of
the year it is all one, Mr. Musgrave."

"Well," said I, "yours is very good
philosophy to help one to triumph over ills
which have passed, but whilst those ills are with
us, the victory, I fear, must remain with them."

Slowly the breeze freshened, but scarce with
weight sufficient in it yet to raise sea enough to
render me uneasy. The clouds in the west
gradually soared, and some scattering of them

in feathers and crescents of vapour, blown from
the brows of the main body, sailed like so many
new moons into the blue mistiness. The sun
glared strong over the bow, with so much
throbbing brilliance in the ocean all that way,
that the eye wept if you but rested it there fora
moment. But the wind took something of
the sting out of the heat, and the plash of the
foam over the side was so refreshing to the
ear that the sound of it seemed to melt with a
sensation of coolness through and through the
system. We broke our fast with some crawfish
and oranges, and a drink of water ; meanwhile
incessantly directing glances round the sea in
search of a ship, for it seemed impossible that
such a wind as this could hang steady, with our
own southerly trend besides, without heaving
something to help us in sight.

As the morning advanced the breeze freshened.
The clouds were now broken up into vast puffs
of vapour, white as steam, which came rolling
stately out of the west, darkening wide spaces
of the running, frothing blue with violet
shadows. The sea was beginning to hollow a
bit, too ; the ridges growing wider and deeper,

along with the sound of snarling in the seething
slide of their heads. The yawns in the sail
where the shawls had been united widened ; the
yard I had manufactured from a bough of a
fallen tree fell to buckling uncomfortably to the
growing leaps and plunges of the boat. Indeed,
I presently found that if the shawls were to
stand the sheet must be slackened out yet, so
that before it was ten o'clock that morning we
were running eastward with the wind almost
astern of us, blowing away as fate would have
it in the quite wrong direction ; a windy sky
behind, a hollow sea all about us, and nothing
in sight save a dull, slate-coloured smudge just
visible when a sea threw us up, far away down
upon the star-board quarter — our island no
doubt, for its bearings, according to my calculation,
were thereabouts. Could wee only have
hoisted cloths on our masts fit to sail such a
boat as this by, I believe I should have tried for
that island again, if only to freshen ourselves
up by a rest ashore, and to lay in a further
stock of fruit. It was some years since I had
handled a boat, but it would all have come back
to me quickly, I dare say, had we had shipshape

and seaworthy materials to deal with ;
but there was nothing to be done with the
shawls. They would have parted to any
approach to tension of the sheet, and so there
was no luff at all to be got out of them.
However, by noon I had begun to think that
were we under as honest a luo sail as was ever
masthead, I should have had to up helm and
run for it, for it was now blowing fresh ; indeed
such a wind as a ship on a bow-line would offer
a main-topgallant-sail to, and nothing above it.
Under our queer sail that looked like a Dutch
flag, the colours up and down instead of
horizontal, wee stormed alone, driving: God
knows where, saving that we knew the great
Atlantic Ocean stretched past the throbbing
boundary over our bows. The little boat sheered
through it like an arrow, making one long
floating slide after another, with a short pause
in the drop of her stern to the yawn of water,
and then a lightning-like rush forwards as the
running sapphire knoll in chase washed brimming
to her, giving us a hoist that caused the
ocean to look as wide and wild again ; with the
flash of the wind too into our gaudy spread of

sail that made me regularly expect to find it in
rags next minute. The little craft needed nice
steering. The foam would come boiling to your
fingers as they clasped the gunwale, and the
least swerve at such a moment must have
swamped and drowned us out of hand. It was
a rushing scene indeed, and there was something
of madness to our distracted brains in the eager
flashing life of it all. The rolling of the clouds
along the sky ; the headlong passage of their
shadows over us ; the leap of the sun from the
edge of one wide mass of vapour to the next ;
the swift hurl of the seas — the swifter to the
eye for their impatient, impetuous heave of the
snow from their brows to ahead of them — the
sparking out of flying-fish from either side our
running boat ; the shriek of the wind past our
ears when it swept fair and full at us to the rise
of the little fabric to the height of the surge ; the
blue finger-like darting of the breeze upon the
smooth sides of the liquid slopes ahead, combined
with the sensation of our helpless velocity,
offered such a picture of movement to the
imagination, that the mind might be defied to
witness the like of it even amidst the commotion

of a tempest from the deck of a large
ship.

Miss Grant sat by my side, apparently
unmoved. I'd see her sometimes glance astern
in the moment of some unusually high billow
running us up with a roar and dazzle of foam
to the level of the quarters, but without a hint
in her face of quailing to the sight, without
a tremor in the decision you saw in the marble-like
set of her lips. This was one of the
realities indeed her spirit could confront. She
had shrunk from entering the underground
rooms, she had been exceedingly perturbed by
the midnight tolling of the bell in the forest,
and now amidst a peril that might most
honestly have blanched the cheek of a tough
old salt, she was as calm as though she
slumbered. Sometimes, but at long intervals,
she addressed me. It was almost impossible
to converse, however. The mere sight of the
flying sea kept one's thoughts in a walt popple,
like the water, disjointing the links of coherence
almost. The noises too were horribly confusing
— the ceaseless hiss of billows breaking
into foam, the distant thunderous sound of

warrior waters swelllnsf into volume, with the
scream of the wind cleaving it. Besides, what
wits I had I required to devote to the steering.
Our salvation indeed might lie In the holding
out of our sail, and In the drag of It that was
rushing out keel clear of the smother of the
avalanches chasing us ; but then It was just
the sort of navigation to be tyrannic In Its
demands upon the nerve and eye ; the swiftness
of the boat made her responses to the
movement of the helm so Instantaneously
sensitive that the controlling of her to the
course of a dart engrossed every thought I
had mind enough to summon. One heedless
movement of the tiller, and the next minute
would have seen the boat bottom up.

And still the sea went frothing to Its confines
tenantless, our little craft the only object
visible upon Its breast for leagues and leagues.
Were our adventures to end then In our belncr
drowned after all ? Had we quitted the Island
where at least our lives were safe If our
existence was miserable, to court, as my fears
had sometimes foreboded, a miserable fate ?
My unemployed hand instinctively sought that

of the girl by my side. She held it as if
she would comfort me by so doing, smiling
to my swift glance at her, for I durst then have
no eyes but for the boat.

'* You are steering the little ship admirably,"
she exclaimed ; " the wind does not increase,
I think, and if this be so, then since we have
been safe so far, we have a right to hope that
all will continue well with us. Don't be dispirited.
Your old instincts as a sailor are
equal to worse difficulties than this."

'' Blessings on my head for having brought
you here ! " said I. " You speak of my old instincts
as a sailor ; they should not have driven
me into acting the fool. We ought to have
remained on the island. I was mad to subject
you to the experiences of an open boat."

I would sooner be here," she answered.
*' There is hope for us in this little flying shape ;
there was none on that dismal rock, with its
gloomy cave and the silence of the night there."

This was as much as we could say at a
time.

The strong breeze held all day, freshening 'at
moments with noisy guns and spiteful blasts,

but happily these stormy intervals were of short
duration, otherwise such a sea must have been
set running us would have yielded me but a
poor chance indeed of keeping the boat afloat.
I thought the day would never come to an
end, though I dreaded its ending too, when my
mind went to the prospect of the dark night
that was to come, with the added weight of
wind, which in all probability would follow the
sun's departure. From time to time a sea
dissolving in foam under us would lap inboard
on either hand, with a pouring of seething
white water that hissed to our ankles as the
little craft swung her nose up ; and on these
occasions, not daring to let go the helm, I was
forced to put Miss Grant to the job of baling,
which she managed with wonderful spirit and
swiftness, flinging the water out over the side
with the soup and boulli tin that we used for a
drinking vessel as fast almost as the secondhand
of a watch travels, till the boat sprang
forward again freed from this cold, sobbing, and
sinister freight.

A little before sunset I spied a sail right
ahead. The angry crimson in the west seemed

to roll like the clouds into the far east, where it
hung in a smoking red haze that looked cyclonic
with the huddled loom of the vapour behind it,
driven in a heap down there by the wind, and
in the heart of this stormy radiance I saw the
sail. But whatever the craft might be she was
hull down, and the red canvas of her, more like
a live cinder than the fabric of a vessel, was to
be caught only from the head of a sea when
it lifted us. I pointed it out to Miss Grant,
rather for the hope the sight might yield her
than for any imaginable good it could be to us ;
and she rose, passing her arm round my neck
to steady herself, and there was so much of an
unconscious caress in this action, as though her
heart dictated a gesture unnoted by her reason,
that it was through Heaven's mercy alone the
thrill of delight the contact of her white hand
against my neck sent through me, did not cause
me to head the boat off and founder her.

She had barely resumed her seat, and was
seemingly about to address me, when the wind
breeze up with a shriek, the puff taking us
precisely as we swung to the ridge of a billow,
and away went the shawls, all three of them

vanishing ahead like a fragment of rainbow,
leaving the yard in halves, hanging to the
halliards Hke the legs of a pair of compasses
slightly open. I half rose with the intention
of converting the shawl that had been wrapped
about Miss Grant during the night into a jib-headed
affair, which might provide surface
enough to scud under, with some promise of
the pull of it keeping us ahead of the seas,
but I changed my mind on second thoughts.
'' Where are we going to ? " I asked myself.
'' Here I am, suffering this boat to be blown
out into the Atlantic Ocean, when our hopes of
salvation lie over the stern."

I said to Miss Grant, " Please catch hold of
this tiller — so. Hold it steady as you have it,
straight fore and aft, that you may keep the
boat dead before the wind."

She did as I bade her. I sprang forward,
stepped the mast, and taking the two
paddles bound the three together securely by
the halliards. This done, I secured the bundle
to the end of the coir rope that lay coiled
down in the bows. I then called to the girl to
put the helm over, motioning to her that she

might know which way to thrust the tiller, and
the instant the little craft came broadside to the
sea, I flung the bundle of mast and paddles
overboard, then floundered aft, moving as low
as I could in the boat, scarce knowing whether
the next minute would not find us drowning.
It was a necessary but a most dangerous
manoeuvre in that sea. She rounded quickly
head on to the pull of that rope ; but ere the
drag of her could tauten the line she hung a
breathless moment or two in the trough, with
the sea like a dark wall to windward rearing its
head to the height of my own stature, flickering
duskily against the crimson in the west, and I
could not fetch a sigh, so sure was I that the
sweeping volume would tumble sheer over us.
But the broad-beamed little structure went
floating up it broadside on, with her keel at
right angles, whilst I gripped the gunwale with
one hand, my right arm encircling Miss Grant
to save her from sliding into the water to leeward
— and this without shipping more water
than a small thunder-shower of spray blowing
over us off the brow of the surge as we
mounted it. Then as the boat swept into the

MAROONED. chap.

hollow behind, she hastened the rope and
whipped her nose round to the sea, and so lay
rising and falling, heavily indeed but comparatively
safely, behind the breakwater of the mast
and oars to which she rode.

It was the only thing I could think of todo,"
I cried. "Thank God it is done, and
well done. You have a magnificent nerve,
Miss Grant. For my part I thought it was allover
with us, and was too frightened to bawl
out."

"We are safer like this than with the sail
set ? " she said.

*eyes," I exclaimed; "we shall be able to
make something like good weather of it now,
even should the breeze freshen. I ought
to have thought of this old-world nautical
stratagem long before it grew perilous to
practise it."

It seemed to be blowing as hard again now
that we faced it. Our running before the wind
had taken half the spite out of it, and it was
almost like the change from a pleasant breeze
to a sharp gale to feel the hurl of the damp
wind rushing down upon us, spray-laden, from

every liquid acclivity we rose to. I dropped
on my knees and baled till I cleared the boat.
The sun was o-one, but the scarlet of his setting:
flooded the sky to the zenith, and went down
rusty red to the opposite sea-line from which
the sail I had spied had disappeared. The
clouds rising out of the western horizon were
darkening to the fading illumination, and the
seaboard that way looked as though it reflected
the lustre of some mighty conflagration, with
smoke in volumes pouring from it. The ocean
turned green as the North Sea in winter, with
a hardening of the shape and outline of every
running ridge, and the rise and fall of the long
tracts of snow-like froth upon it rendered its
aspect so indescribably bleak, chill, desolate,
that the sparkling stagnation of yesterday
seemed as a dream, and it defied the imagination
to realize that this melancholy picture of
froth and warring waters was looked down
upon by the heaven of the Antilles. But the
boat rode well and buoyantly, and how the
breakwater helped her you saw by the savage
leap of the froth against it ; though it was
smothered again and again, yet it made a sort

VOL. III. o

of "smooth," as sailors say, for our keel, and
the prospect of the night was no longer unendurable
to me. Before the darkness fell I
got some fruit and turtle out of the locker.
Miss Grant shook her head, but I insisted, and
then she ate a few mouthfuls, but merely to
please me, as I could see. Happily we had a
drop of rum with us, and I persuaded her to
take a small draught, and afterwards I carefully
wrapped the rug round her, and made her as
snug as the horrible plight we were in would
permit.

RESCUED.

The wind fortunately did not Increase when
the darkness fell, but the gloom of the night
gave so stormy an aspect to the ocean that you
would have thought It blew as hard again as It
did. I cannot express how dismal was the
appearance of the weltering liquid blackness In
whose heart our tiny ark laboured, one moment
tung to the sight of the stars, the next plunged
Into the momentary stagnation and midnight of
the Atlantic trough, with long dashes of pale
foam heavlnor like o^reat wlndlnor-sheets all about
us, and the slender moon leaping with a troubled
silver face from the rims of the flying clouds, to
render the picture ghastly with the cold, deathlike
complexion of her light. There was to be
no couch for Miss Grant at the bottom of the

O 2

boat. The fabric rode well, and took but very
little water over the bows, but the wet came in
fast through the showering of the spray off the
seas curling into foam ahead of us, and obliged
me again and again to bale, though it occupied
but a very little while to free us.

My companion sat beside me in the stern-sheets,
to which place indeed I had transported
most of our little cargo of fruit, water, and the
like, that the combined weight aft might give
the boat's nose a good cock-up for the run of
the surge. Happily, though it all looked chill
as a wintry Channel scene, the wind blew warm,
wet as it was, and the water was warm too with
the first touch of it, though, to be sure, If you
let it lie long trickling upon your face the breeze
made it frosty. There was a great deal of fire
m the sea ; a constant sparkling of pallid flames
flashing like summer sheet-lightning as they
rose incandescent against the sweep of blackness
over the horizon where the night lay deepest.
Conversation was out of the question. The
roaring of the near seas drowned our voices.
To render ourselves audible we had to put our
lips to each other's ear, sheltering our mouths

even then with the hand against the blast,
that would otherwise have chipped our words
away as you'd snick the twior from a bough
with a pair of shears. I saw that the night was
to be a fearfully trying one for us both. ]vly
own attention was kept so much on the strain
by observing the plunges of the boat, and
watching the seas rolling at and past us. that I
protest my very soul ached as if it were some
physical faculty in me. Our misery, too, was
increased by the obligation to keep seated.
In calm water, as you have seen, we moved
about and eased our cramped limbs by passing
to the end of the little craft, or standing ; but
now we durst not stir, not only for fear of
throwing the boat out of trim, but lest we
should be flung overboard by one of her many
extravagantly wild leaps.

Thus passed the time. I occupied my mind
by considering what we should do on the morrow",
if the dawn found us alive and the weather
moderated. The one ship we had seen at
sundown made me hope that others might show-next
day, but I could not forget that we made
but a minute speck on this mighty surface,

invisible at very short distance away, and that
our chance of being picked up must He in a
vessel passing close to us.

Whilst I thus sat pondering, with my heart
so heavy in me that I could not have felt more
melancholy had I been sure that the sun was
never again to rise for us, I felt the pressure
of Miss Grant's form against mine, and bringing
my eyes close to her face I saw that she was
asleep. I passed my arm round her that she
might have the support of it, and yielded so as
to bring her head to my shoulder, as she had
mine on the previous night ; and thus she lay
worn out in a deep sleep, breathing regularly.
The moon sliding into some indigo opening at
times would shed its light upon us, by which
I could see Miss Grant's face as it lay pillowed
close to mine in the hood with which she had
replaced her hat. It was a radiance to spiritualize
her beauty. How passionately my heart
had gone to hers, how deep was my love, I
never could have guessed so truly as now, when
her beauty was close to my lips, and she lay at
peace against my breast amidst this thunder
of warring surge, this long howling of the ocean

night wind, this convulsive tossing of our Httle
boat. Murder ! what a passion is this same
love that it should triumph over such a time as
that ; dominating every consideration of the
horrors of our situation, and forcing my spirit
to secretly whisper to itself, that in this delight
of slumberous embrace — for an embrace it was
in its way, with her head upon my shoulder,
her form against mine, and my arm clasping
her to me — there was solace enough for as many
days of this sort of thing as might go to a month
of Sundays! I'd often fancy that the poets
mightily exaggerated when handling the subject
of love, as though the world's main occupation
lay in thinking of that, and nothing else ; but I
now know better. Indeed, I have only to think
of that night to know better. Alongside this
passion, the passion of life itself is a feeble
sentiment. Death seemed to have no terrors
for me whilst I held that girl to my heart. The
grim feature grinned in every black trough to
the glare of the graveyard lights scintillating in
each ebon steep, but I was without fear ; I was
tranquil, at peace, even happy. But I must
own not for very long.

For an hour, perhaps, my enjoyment lasted,
whilst I sat snatching at every opportunity
which the el^nce of the moon would ive me
to look at her as she slept, sorely tempted
indeed at moments to touch her lips, whose
nearness made the black, damp gale aromatic
to me, only that my alarmed honour would
spring to the succour of my manhood, and
transform my desire into a vein of self-reproachful
musing for which I thanked my
good angel ; for I vow to Heaven that I never
afterwards could have forgiven myself the
lightest act of disloyalty to the noble faith this
woman had in me. For an hour, I say ; at the expiration
of which time my eye was suddenly taken
by a pale shadow a trifle on the starboard bow
of the boat. It came and went with our tossing,
I sent a careless glance at it at first, for it had
the look of a small cloud, or some white boiling
of water, like to the many scattered all around,
that seemed to glare out in ivory heaps to the
touch of the moonbeams ; but it hung steadily
and grew rapidly, enlarging out of the western
darkness with a steadfast spectral sheen that
presently assured me it must be the canvas of

a ship. The Involuntary start I gave awoke
Miss Grant. She sat up, unconscious of the
posture her sleep had taken, and I withdrew
my arm from her waist.

I pointed whilst I put my mouth to her ear,
and cried out, '' A ship ! "

The mere sound of the word instantly brought
her to her full senses. She exclaimed, " She
will not be able to see us ! Can we not signal ?
Can we not show a light ? "

Alas ! I had no means of making a flare.
Swiftly I over-hauled the contents of the boat
mentally, but there was nothing in her that
would burn. The shawls, the rugs which,
wetted with the drop of spirits we possessed,
might yesterday have been kindled into a flame,
were now saturated with the flying spray. Moreover,
the vessel was approaching us too rapidly
to have enabled me to act, even had an opportunity
for doing so offered. It was very soon
after I had sighted her that she had shaped out
to the proportions of a large vessel of eight
hundred tons at least, running under a press, all
three royal set indeed ; for what was half a gale
of wind to us down here, lying in the eye of it

and receiving its full pressure, would be but a
pleasant breeze to yonder tall craft, who, by
giving it her stern, took most of the spite out
of it. But my agony of annoyance at being
unable to signal her vanished on a sudden to
the horror which her approach excited, for asher
hull stole out black against the dusk beyond,
blacker yet under the pile of glimmering cloths,
with a faltering streak of a white line broken by
ports running along it, it looked to me as though
she were heading dead for us, and that in a few
minutes the thunder-cloud of her shadow would
be upon the boat.

I sprang to my feet, in my anguish sending
a wild yell against the gale to her, but was
immediately flung down again by the jump of
the boat. I again staggered up, but only .to
fall afresh, this time fetching myself a thump
that had like to have broken my back. All
the misery of our adventures boiled down into
one instant of time could not have approached
the torment of feeling with which I watched,
breathless, helpless, mute as a corpse, the
drawing down upon us of that great fabric,
storming under cloths that, from the low point

at which we surveyed them, seemed to sweep
the very clouds that rolled onwards with her
speeding trucks. The wind so drove her that
she heaped the foam to near the height of her
spritsail-yard, and the raging sound of the
parted water there, along with the hissing of
the acre of white smothering spume which she
sent in thunder ahead of her with every stately
stoop of her bows, swept a noise along that
rose high above the crying of the wind and the
clash of colliding surges, even when she was
many times her own length distant from us.
It was impossible to suppose that the mere black
dot we made upon the tumbling waves was
visible to her people, but it did so happen that
when she was not above two or three hundred
fathoms away from us her head drew a point
out, and a minute or two afterwards she was
rushing past us close, with ourselves becalmed
for an instant in the hang of her shadow as it
were betwixt us and the wind, till we rose high
to the shriek of the gale again on the breaker-like
cur] of sea that swelled in a long coil from
her cutwater, flashing into a snow-storm when
abreast of the gangway.

Terror had constricted my throat ; I could
not find my voice. The mere effort to shout
wrenched me as though some hand were upon
my heart striving to tear it from my breast. I
could see no light along her until she gave usher
stern, when there shone out some squares
of illuminated windows with a gleam of gilt work
writhing round about them, and the wake rising
hump-backed from the blackness under the
counter to the stare of the lights above, as though
it found its milkiness in their lustre. She had
the look of a frigate, and may have been one
for all I could tell, though more likely she was
some fine West Indiaman, well to the westwards
for the usual course of such craft bound home.
As she had risen as a cloud, so did she vanish
like one ; her squares of canvas paling to the
moon, then darkening to the brief eclipse, then
brightening out afresh into visionary fragility,
till the stars were trembling once more where
her stately, rolling spread of cloths had hidden
them, and the sea went frothing to the mere
smudge she made in the desolate, windy,
distant dusk.

Miss Grant took my hand and held It, crying

to me, " God watches over us, Mr. Musgrave.
To-morrow will bring us help, I'm sure."

But the agony of expectation I had endured,
the reaction following the horrible suspense
caused by that ship's approach, the bitter grief,
the wild feelings excited bv her blind, thunderous
rush past us, had done their work with me,
and I could not have answered the girl to have
saved my life.

It was shortly before two in the morning, as
I might guess by the passage of the stars, that
the wind slackened, shifted into the south-west,
and hung there a soft and pleasant breeze, with a
thinning away of the clouds, a brighter glory
of starlight, a more diamond-like edge to the
curl of the moon now sailing low, and a
spreading out of the sea into a large, round
swell, the sleepy cradling of which was like a
benediction to the senses after the sharp, snarling
curses of the surges which had been
racking our bones and bewildering our brains
for hours. We sat talking awhile, but my
companion's voice was broken by weariness,
and presently she made no answer to some
question I put, and on looking at her I saw

that she had fallen asleep. I supported her as
before, but it was not long ere I was nodding
too. Her soft and regular respiration was an
invitation to slumber ; the rhythmic swing of
the boat too was poppy-like in its influence.
My eyelids turned into lead, my chin sunk
upon my breast.

I was startled by a voice hailing me. It
aroused me from a nightmare, and I woke in a
fright. It was daylight, so I must have slept
for an hour and a half.

'' Boat ahoy!"

I started to the cry that came ringing harsh
and loud close aboard, and Miss Grant opened
her eyes and sat erect, with an exclamation of
astonishment, and a lifting up of the hands as
though to fend off some phantasmal object.
The sun was just rising, and his first beam like
a living lance of light came hurling along the
swelling surface of the waters, which brightened
out to the stretching of that magic wand of
glory into dainty turquoise even as you looked.

Boat ahoy, I say ! "

I turned, and then sprang to my feet with a
shout of joy. Close astern of us, within toss

of a biscuit, lay a little fore-and-aft schooner,
with her canvas shaking to the light southwesterly
wind, into the very eye of which her
jib-boom pointed. She was a craft of some
twenty-five tons, painted black, sitting low on
the water, a beautiful model to the eye,
schooner-rigged as I have said, her canvas old
and grimy, and liberally patched, her masts
badly, stayed, the standing rigging gray for
want of tar. A fellow in a red shirt and a blue
cap, like a French marksman's, leaned v/Ith
his bare arms upon the rail, staring at us with
a face of a dark yellow. Over the forecastle
bulwarks were the heads of four negroes
attired in bright colours, and another negro
stood at the long slender tiller that swayed In
his hand, whilst he gazed at us with his mouth
open behind the yellow-faced man. All these
details were swept upon my mind with photographic
swiftness and fidelity.

I cried out, " For God's sake, take us onboard.
You shall be handsomely repaid for
any trouble we give you. We have out-lived
a terrible night, and are In the greatest distress,
and must perish if you do not receive us."

'' Can yah manage to scull dal boat 'long-side,
d'yah think ? "

''Oh yes!" I cried, "oh yes!"

I whipped out my knife, sprang forward
deliriously, dragged at the sea-anchor, hauled
it streaming into the boat, severed the ligatures,
and seizing a paddle floundered aft with it, and
fell to sculling; the boat towards the schooner.
Once a horrible swooning feeling seized me,
and I was forced to pause to rally my senses,
on which the yellow man bawled oust, " Lookout
for dis yeerie line," and hove a coil of rope
into the boat, which Miss Grant caught, and
we were dragged alongside. I thrust my
companion's parcel of letters and jewellery
into my pocket, and helped her up the side.
But the moment we gained the deck the brave
and beautiful girl broke down. She hid her
face and sobbed bitterly. Her emotion was
conical as an obligation upon me to bear up,
otherwise I believe I should have given way
as weakly as any woman, so true it is that
sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first. I
drew her gently to the side, longing to soothe
her with a lover's caress, though I started to

the mere fancy of such a thing, and half turned
from her, for now that we stood upon a vessel's
deck again she seemed to slip magically back
to the old bearings she had aboard the Iron
Crown. It was the mere sensitiveness in my
humour then, no doubt, but I felt it as a sudden
chill at my heart, that my lovely associate on
the island, my patient, tender, heroic companion
of the boat, had changed into Miss Aurelia
Grant merely, the young lady whom I was
escorting to Rio to oblige my cousin, who would
marry her on her arrival.

She looked at me throuo^-h her tears, smiling.

'^ What would yah like done wit dis erie
boat, sal ? " exclaimed the yellow-faced man.

'' Get her aboard, if you please," said I, "or
take her in tow, or cast her adrift. She's of no
use to us now, thank God."

Them rugs is your, I reckon ? " said the
man.

"Yes," I answered; "I shall be glad to
have them. We may need them here."

He took a look at the boat, and then ran his
eye along the little schooner's deck in a sort of
calculating way, and exclaimed, " 'Ain't good

VOL. III. p

enough to send de likes of her adrift. Dere's
room yeerie, I guess. Hi ! Toby, Hebenezer,
Jupiter, lay aft, you tree dam niggers, and git
dis boat boards. Daddy, jump for dal luff-tackle
; jump, mal African, and stop scratching
your head. Quick an' lively's dal word all
round' now."

He clapped his hands, and fell to cutting
several queer capers, as though striving to work
himself up into a state of excitement, perhaps
with a notion of putting life into his niggers.
Indeed, he was the oddest figure that could be
imagined. His nose was that of the negro,
and his mouth so twisted, whether by disease or
disaster, that the left-hand corner of it was on
a line with his right nostril, whilst the rest of it
went up into his cheek in the shape of the paring
of a finger-nail. One eye was larger than the
other, the dusk of them indicating African
blood. His beauty was further improved by a
strange growth of short black hair upon his
chin, every fibre as wide apart as the teeth of a
comb, and as coarse as the bristles of a hog.
There was the negro twang in his voice, and
he seemed incapable of speaking without hallooing.

He wore, in addition to the cap and
shirt I have already named, a pair of dirty
duck trousers which ran flowing to his naked
yellow feet ; but grotesquely ugly as he was —
and the more so for the contrast of his twisted,
guinea-coloured face betwixt his old blue cap
and faded red shirt — he could not have been
more beautiful in my sight then had he been
one of those dewy, ambrosial, lovely spirits
who, in Paradise Lost, with flaming lances
keep the devil at a respectful distance from
Adam and his wife asleep.

All was now bustle ; the negroes walloped
about, tumbling into the boat, bawling out like
school-boys at play, making the craft we had
vacated splash to their qualification as though
they would capsize her. Suddenly the yellow-faced
man, who was looking at them over the
rail, roared out, "Hallo! What you do, hey,
you black reeves ? What ! you steal my goods,
hein ! Under and flames ! I gib you something
proper to eat, my dickey-birds. Stop
now ! " with which he plumped right into the
boat, jumping as though he meant to go clean
through her. I looked to see what was the

p 2

matter, and observed all three negroes with
their mouths full ; one with a lump of turtle in
his hand, another with a craw-fish, a third with
a bunch of bananas. Their greedy gobbling
was like to choke them. Apparently they
meant to stow a good cargo away before they
could be stopped. The instant, however, the
fellow-faced man was in the boat he let drive
with his head at the stomach of the negro
nearest him, who fell with a crash as if shot ;
but the other two showed fight, poising their
heads in a butting posture and awaiting the
onset in that attitude, though they continued
to cram their mouths nevertheless.

Drop what yah're eating, you black reeves
ob de world ! " shouted the yellow man, who
wisely came to a pause on observing their
hostile demeanour. " Yah both hang for blasted
pirate when we gets to Nassoo ! you see now !
Yes, yah both swings for dis, high as de highest
tree dere is. Yah'll see now. Drop it, I say."

But by this time the fellows had nothing left
to drop saving some claws of a craw-fish, which
promptly fell from the black paws that held
them, whilst the men looked up at me grinning

from ear to ear. Amidst the utmost confusion,
the yellow-faced man remaining till the last in
the boat to guard our poor remaining stock of
provisions, the little craft's nose was got to the
gangway, the block of the luff-tackle hooked onto
the ringbolt in the stem, and then all hands
came aboard to hoist her in. The fellow at the
helm left it to help, and though my emotions
just then leaned very little to the side of merriment,
I laughed till I was breathless at the
contortions of the blacks as they pulled in
company with the yellow man, every dusky
throat delivering a yell with each drag on its own
account ; till all at once, just as the bows of the
boat were showing over the side, crack ! the
fall of the tackle parted, down tumbled the
negroes in a heap, with the yellow man on top
of them, where they spurred and kicked at one
another like a lump of spiders in the bottom of
a glass, filling the air with execrations and
shouts, whilst they rolled over and over in an
inextricable muddle of black faces, cucumber
shanks, red, yellow, and white headgear, and
shirts that threatened to become rags in a very
little while if the sport went on.

I looked for the boat and found her underwater,
floating with just the Hne of her gunwales
above the surface, and the rugs, shawls,
umbrellas, and the like quietly sinking past her
in the blue heave of the swell. The yellow
man scrambled out of the twisting group with
his cap gone ; and now he proved himself
uglier than had been at all conjectural whilst
his head was covered, for he was as bald as a
turnip down to the semi-circle where his wiry
hair bushed out thick as the frill of a Persian
cat, and as coarse as cocoa-nut fibre. In fact
his bald head showed now like the top of an
ostrich's egg stuck in the hair of a mattress.
He ran to look at the boat, and when he saw
she was under water he yelled out, '' Yah dingy
villains ! Look at yah work, yah black pities ! "
and in a paroxysm of rage stooped his head
and went butt in afresh for the first negro
at hand ; but Ebenezer, as the black was
called, was too sharp for him ; he sprang aside,
and the yellow man drove head foremost against
the single old pump that stood before the
mainmast. The blow that he fetched himself
would have lasted a white man for a lifetime.

but it appeared to cause the fellow no further
inconvenience than was to be remedied by a
brief spell of rubbing. I was getting tired of
all this.

Better get the block unhooked and let the
boat go," said I. "What I want has coated out
of her, and there's nothing left in the locker
that's worth the saving. Besides, I want to
have a talk with you. You'll lose nothing by
shoving ahead."

*' Right yah are," he answered. 'jump now,
some black debbil, and free de block. Way
'loft, way 'loft, Toby, and bring dot tackle
down."

He looked about him for his cap, found it,
put it on his head, and came aft to where Miss
Grant and I had seated ourselves on some
small raised contrivance just abaft the rudderhead.


'* What's the name of this schooner?" said I.

Dal Orphan, sal," he answered.

'' Where are you bound to, may I ask ? "

We're out a wrecking," he answered. Then
seeing I did not understand, he added, " Dal
Orphan's a wrecking craft dat visits dal

islands 'way from Providence down to Inaguey
and dal Mona passage, to see what's to be got
'longshore."

I understood him now, for I had heard of
such vessels.

You hail from Nassau, I suppose ? "

Yeas," he said, " dat's my country," inspecting
first Miss Grant and then myself with
growing curiosity.

*' I may t:\ke it you're captain here ? "

Dat's so, sal."

Your name, pray ? " said I.

*' Capt'n Mills Jeremiah Ducrow," he
answered, drawing himself up and speaking
slowly and emphatically.

'well, Captain Ducrow," said I, preserving
my gravity with an effort that was the harder
for the demureness I noticed in Miss Grant's
face, " before I tell you our story, let me
thank you from the very bottom of my heart
and, of course, I speak for this lady as for
myself — for your handsome and timely rescue
of us. God knows how it must have been with
us both had succour been delayed. I can afford
to pay you for any services you may render us,

and I simply tell you this, that you may know
you and your little ship's company will not be
losers by your complying with any request I
may make you."

He kicked out with his heel as he scraped
a bow at me and said, " I see yah a gent. I
witness it too dal accent of yah language.
Dere's nebber no mistaken' a gent. I mix in
must-class company ashore myself, and could tell
perlite breeding' blindfold by de mere smell of
him. Now den," he roared, suddenly turning
and looking forward, *get dat gangway shipped.
Under and slugs ! 'ain't dinner-time yet, yah
blooming shark-fishes, and so I tells yah.
Lay aft to dis helium, Moses. Beg a thousand
pardons, sal," he continued, rounding upon me
with another scrape and a kick up behind,
but niggers is de most excrooshatin' people to
manage. Dey works 'pon your temper more
nor aching tees," saying which he extended his
arms, drooping his yellow hands, whilst he
turned his head from the direction in which he
seemed to point, with his face puckered up into
an expression of loathing which the twist of his
mouth rendered monstrously ugly and comical.

Well, now," said I, " I want to tell you our
story, but before I begin, I should be glad to
know if there's anything to eat aboard this little
hooker."

Oh yes, sal ; dere's eating to be had —
middling coarse, jest sailor's eating, sal ; not fit
for dis lubberly lady," bowing low to Miss
Grant, '' but dal best Capt'n Ducrow can
pride."

"We have not had bite nor sup since last
night," said I. "What can you give us ? "

"Will yah hab it yeerie or in dal cabin?"
he inquired.

Here," said I, making a shrewd guess at
the temperature below.

He called to one of the negroes and told him
to put a pot of chocolate upon the fire, then to
lay aft with a bit of cold salt beef, ship's
biscuits, plates, and the like; "And bear a
hand, mal humming-bird," he said, "for 'ain't
dinner-time yet, yah know. Now, sal," he
continued, addressing me, assuming a fine air
of dignity in his manner, " whilst dal wattles
is making ready I shall be glad ob yah
story."

I at once went to work and related our
adventures, and on coming to an end I asked
him if he could give me news of the Iron
Crown.

He answered no, he had not heard of the
vessel, but that he had learnt about a fortnight
ago, though he could not recollect the source
whence he had received the intelligence, that
a vessel bound to Porto Rico had been spoken,
and reported that she had on board four men,
whom she had found adrift in an open boat,
and that the fellows said they had gone in
search of a man and lost their ship in thick
weather. 'rand I believe, sal," said Captain
Ducrow, " dat dal name of dal vessel dey
gave was dal Iron Crown ; but I won't swear
to it, for I ain't got no memory word speaking
of, 'kept for poetry."

Here he sent a languishing look at Miss
Grant.

'' For poetry ! " I rapped out. '* Do you
know," I exclaimed, turning to my companion,
that this looks uncommonly like as though
poor old Gordon and his men had been picked
up."

''I hope so," she answered; "and it seems
so indeed. It will diminish by so much the
horror of our memories of the ship. And
four men too, Mr. Musgrave ! That must
mean that the poor cabin-boy was recovered."

Pray, captain," said I, *' which is the nearest
port hereabouts ; some civilized place of houses
and ships, I mean, where we may be able to
put ourselves in the way of getting to Rio ? "

He looked steadfastly around the horizon
as though seeking for information on the
gleaming sea-line, and then gazing at me
with one eye shut full of thought, he exclaimed,
*' There'll be nuffen nearer than Nassoo."

*rand how far off will that be?" said I, —
in the shape of time, I mean."

Well, maybe a week, maybe a month.
Dere's no predicating ob de winds. Perhaps
yah know dem bountiful lines, Miss —

Sometimes dal gale blow high.

Ho I an' societies dal breeze blow small ;
Sometimes it breezes in a sigh,

Aji' sometimes it blows in a squall.
But ho, my hub, and my hub I Most often when I pants to get
at yah, down y eerie it don't blow at all !



You didn't happen to know dem verses
perhaps, Miss ? "

Miss Grant answered no, smiling.

Wall, I ask 'cause they're mine. When
sung to dal accompaniment — "

Beg your pardon, Captain Ducrow," said I,
breaking in here, " but I want to settle some
plan with you, for we're in a great hurry to get
to Rio, and if you'll help us to arrive there you
shall do so on your own terms. What do you
advise now ?"

This reference to his judgment flattered him.
He drew himself up, folded his arms, and
cocked his eye thoughtfully at the sky, with the
air of a man who recognizes his opportunity,
and means to make the most of it.

Tell yah what," he suddenly exclaimed,
"take mal advice, and let me bowl yah to
Havana. Dere's breezes to be trusted off de
Bahama Bank."

All right," said I. " Havana will suit
very well. And now to square the matter off
whilst we're upon it — what about the passage
money ? "

Again he struck an attitude with another

squint aloft, then fell to counting upon his
fingers, as it were, whilst his lips moved. He
uttered a few disconnected syllables. " De
grub — lost time yeerie — nuffen perhaps 'long-shore
after all ; " then bringing his eyes to me
and staring a little without speaking, he
exclaimed, '' Say fifty dollar apiece ? "

'you shall have it," said I, pulling out my
pocket-book, and giving him a sight of some
Bank of England notes in it.

The negro now came along, bearing the meal
that had been ordered. A small carpenter's
bench was brought from forward, a piece of
sailcloth spread over it, and Miss Grant and I
fell to. The beef proved a piece of corned
buffalo hump, and speaking for myself it ate
with extraordinary relish after our three weeks
of turtle and craw-fish. Even out of the flinty
biscuit I could get enjoyment, whilst the
chocolate was as well made and as handsomely
frothed as any I ever tasted ashore. The light
sparkling breeze, but with the fire of this torrid
zone in its breath, hung steadily, crispin the
large rounds of the darkly blue swell, and
sending the little schooner cleaving through



it in an airy, undulating sliding that was like
flying, so buoyantly did the keen clipper keel
mount the swelling hills, with a soft lean on
their summits from the hot blue gushing that
woke a note as of a fountain at the bow, and
raised a sound alongside as of the dim melody
of musical glasses chiming afar. Captain
Ducrow stood by us whilst we breakfasted. I
asked him to join us ; but he said his own
breakfast of tea, biscuit and molasses would becoming
along shortly, and he'd rather wait. I
then asked him if he could tell me the name
and situation of the island we had been
marooned upon.

Wall," says he, " I've been thinking hard
'pon dat berry question whilst yah've been
feeding, but what island it can be passes my
apprehension, sal. 'Ain't Watling, dat's
martin ; 'ain't Rum nor Samara. Your
resemblance ain't muffin like him. 'Ain't
Guihaney, nor Planas, nor Cocks " (Caicos, I
presume). He added, with an air of desperation,
" De debbil only knows what island
• , • ))

It IS.

I was nearly telling him that we had left the

most of our traps behind us, but on reflection I
thought It was best to say nothing about that.
Wherever the island might be, It now certainly-lay
out of our course. Time must be spent In
seeking and making It, and time grew doubly
precious when I cast my eye at the little ,
and reflected upon the sort of
accommodation that awaited us below, and how
for that, if for no other reason, we could not be
in too great a hurry to end this trip. Our
baggage would of course have been serviceable
to us, but Its recovery was not worth the delay
of a deviation. And then, again, I believe the
mere notion of going to that island afresh, lying
off it, having it in view along with all its
melancholy, wretched associations of hopelessness
and privations, would have grievously
depressed Miss Grant, as it must certainly have
affected me, even Into a superstitious dread that
the mere loom of it above the sea-line would
prove prophetic of further disasters to us.

When we had finished breakfast I asked
Captain Ducrow what sort of accommodation
he could furnish the lady with below.

I can't praise him, I can't praise him," he

22:

answered, with a solemn shake of his head, to
which the swinging of the tassel of his cap
imparted additional emphasis; "but yah shall
see him for yourself, sal," with which he led
the way to the companion, and down the three
of us went. The small skylight lay open, but
it was a stifling little cabin for all that, about
the size of a North Sea smack's, with a tiny
room bulkhead out of it, to which Captain
Ducrow pointed, exclaiming, '' Dat's where I
lies, sal ; but it is dal duty of every gent to
make room for dal ladles," — here he scraped
another convulsive bow at Miss Grant, — " and
if you will hab dal grace, ma'am, to occupy him
till we gets to Havana, he'll be all de sweeter
for me to use again. Dat's it, I reckon, and
so, mam'selle, he Is weary moose at your
service."

"Ah, captain," said I, ''I see now what a
fine poet you are. Upon my word. Miss Grant,
there's no finished courtier could have turned
a neater speech."

The fellow grinned so exceedingly with his
twisted mouth that you would have thought
the emotion of delight must have ended in the

VOL. III. Q

wringing of one side of his face clean off the
other.

'' It all comes ob mixing in must-class company,"
he said, in a voice whose natural negro
huskiness was thickened yet by excess of
gratification. " 'Taln't all nature in this erie
earth. Nebber knew a rale genteel man as
didn't git his polishing from dal elbows of dal
must-class crowd he shoves in 'mongst. Yah
may take it for dal Lord's truss, sal — "

I interrupted him. '' Any cockroaches here,
Captain Ducrow ?"

''Waal, yeas ; modern one family, I've
afeared."

'' Nothing worse, I hope ? "

Nebber's muffin worse where dere's cockroaches,"
he said ; " dal cockroach eats up
what's worse."

It's a pity," said I to Miss Grant, " that
your hammock went overboard. We could
have made shift to swing it in this bit of a
room. However, you'll want a place to sleep
in, and wee can't do better than accept Captain
Ducrow's kind offer."

So it was arranged that the skipper should

clear out his traps, leaving the bunk bare for
the reception of a square of sailcloth, which,
with a roll of the same stuff for a pillow, would
provide my companion with a clean couch at
all events. As for myself, I told Ducrow that
one of his lockers in the cabin would supply
me with as good a bed as I needed. On my
asking him where he meant to sleep, he pointed
to a hole in the cabin bulkhead forward, which
I found to be a sort of bunk-place like to the
orifices in which the hardy marksmen aboard
a certain type of vessels stretch their weary,
sea-booted limbs when they turn in. This
being settled, we returned on deck, glad to
escape from the stifling little cabin.

The hours slipped by, the blue swell came
running out of the south-west, with the fresh
but burning breeze flashing off the heads of
the brimming brine into our patched and
grimy spread of cloths, under whose pressure
the schooner swept along with the subtlety
of the shark, and with such a whipping of her
ill-stayed spars to every jump as made one look
at times to see them go overboard. They
rigged up a sort of awning for us, and under

Q 2

it Miss Grant and I sat throughout the greater
part of the day, talking much of the perils
we had come through, of our happy deliverance,
of the honest prospect that had now fairly
opened upon us of our arriving safely at Rio,
at no very distant date either ; with frequent
interruptions from Captain Ducrow, who would
entertain us with twenty odd remarks, with
accounts of his wrecking experiences, with
inquiries into our story, with several poetical
quotations all of his own manufacture, as he
protested, sometimes quitting his lofty air tolet
fly at one of his negro seamen, or even to
chase him.

But in this time I was sensible of a change
both in myself and in Miss Grant. There was
a delicate suggestion of diffidence in her which
I could see her struggling against in every
smile she gave me, but which nevertheless
remained as sensible to me as the aroma of her
breath, or the spirit that shone brilliant in her
eyes. Sometimes I'd think it the reflection of
my own bearing ; a sort of reserve came upon
me which I could not control, though when I
sought to interpret its impulse, I found I could

but understand it In part. There would be
sensitiveness too to increase suspicion. I
fancied that now we were comparatively safe,
thoughts of my cousin, sharpened by happy
conviction that she would soon be with him,
caused her to recur to our Intimacy — perhaps
to certain passages in our Intimacy —-with the
resolution to once again clearly define herself
to my mind as Alexander's sweetheart, but as
insensible as her sweetness and gratitude could
contrive it, so that nothing of pain might be
caused me by this new posture in her, or rather
this return to an earlier manner. It was so
reasonable, that I could not but think I was
right In thus thinking. lost honourably
cautious as I flatter myself I had been,
glances, nay words, had escaped me In the
hurry of my feelings which she would now
recall. I remember once that afternoon, when
her face was turned away from me, whilst she
shadowed her fair brow with her hand as she
gazed out to sea — I remember, I say, looking
at her earnest, my mind full of her, wondering
what thoughts were in her heart, striving with
a kind of passion in me to interpret her beauty

into even the feeblest revelation that might
correspond with my imagination of her. She
was slow in looking round, and when she did
so I grew immediately conscious by her manner
that she knew I had been watching her. She
let her eyes dwell on mine a moment with a
softness that was like an appeal ; then as her
glance fell, her lips were parted by a smile
I would have given all I was worth to know
how to translate. I waited almost breathlessly
for her to speak, and still watching, I saw a
tear drop from her cheek to her hand. She
rose suddenly and went to the rail, and stood
there a little with her back upon me, and when
she returned it was with some commonplace
remark about the sultry glimmer of the air at
the junction of the sea and sky.

ABOARD THE ORPHAN.

Our little schooner was named the Orphan.
She had indeed a forlorn and melancholy look,
strongly suggestive of friendlessness, with a
dampness besides, owing to her being repeatedly
pumped out, that gave her a tearful
appearance. Her beautiful lines would have
made me imagine that she had been a yacht in
her day but for the homeliness of her fittings.
She leaked considerably, and the negro who
acted as mate aboard her told me her timber
was so rotten forward that you could dig cubes
of dry rot out of the knees and carlings as
easily as you cut a cheese. Her aspect of
decayed gentility was quite moving in its way.
You witnessed the good blood in her, which
perhaps rendered her uncared-for condition the

more affecting. But she was an orphan that
did not keep her woes to herself. There was
not a tree-nail In her but complained, not a
fastening nor bulkhead but mingled Its groans
with the lamentations which broke out from all
parts of the little fabric. The very creak of
the rudder on Its pinches had the note of the
sniff of a sobbing man ; and then, as one or
another of the blacks was repeatedly addressing
himself to the gaunt old brake pump In
front of the mainmast, there was constantly
a choking sound of water in the air, with
gurgling of the bright stream as it sluiced into
the sea through the little holes in the scuppers,
which was perhaps the one and final condition
needful to render the lachrymose air of this ill-clothed,
sun-blistered, neglected, sieve-like
Orphan completely effective. Whether such
craft are still afloat at the work to which this
vessel was put, I do not know. Perhaps the
West Indian wrecking business is already an old
world story, but in my time a whole fleet of
small craft, sloops, cutters, schooners, and the
like, were employed in the trade ; that is to say,
in hunting the many islands in these waters for

wrecks of vessels, and for such commodities
as might have been washed ashore out of
them.

Havana, according to Captain Ducrow, was
within eight or nine days' sail of us. The outlook
of the run, if a run it was to prove, was
not a thing to trouble either Miss Grant or
myself at the first blush, coming as we did
fresh to this little schooner from the horrors
and perils of an open boat at sea, and from three
weeks of hopelessness in an island prison. But
it does not take long for the novelty of rescue
to wear out. Before darkness closed upon that
first day of our deliverance we had ceased to
marvel at our happy escape. We had grown
used to thinking of it, and though gratitude was
always in our thoughts, there was no longer the
first passionate delight and astonishment rising
at moments to incredulity.

Hence when the evenings settled down hot as
iron that has blackened out of its white heat,
along with a fining down of the breeze to a
mere sighing of air that threatened a dead calm
anon. Miss Grant's and my conversation
naturally went to the prospect before us. of the

passage in this stifling, leaky, ill-provisioned
little schooner to Havana, that yet lay some
hundreds of miles distant. The small awning
had been removed ; the dark velvet of the
heavens showed from sea-line to sea-line fiery
with stars. And the moon's reflection this night
lay brightly upon the sea. The heavy swell of
the morning had flattened ; but there was a light
movement yet to which the schooner kept time
with her whip-like spars, every sail swinging in
and out regularly, with draughts of dewy air
scurrying cool to one's heated brows from these
fanning. A negro stood at the helm, and when
the stern of the schooner drooped to a hollow,
the ebony figure melted out of sight into the
blackness of the water beyond, though with the
rise of this end of the craft he would stand out
again in a sharp limning against the silver ground
of the luminaries. Captain Ducrow had gone
below to lie down, and we could hear him
snoring in the cabin, a sound as persuasive as
the heat as an influence to detain us on deck.
The negro mate paced the gangway with naked
feet, soundless as the footfalls of a cat, with an
occasional halt to squirt a stream of tobacco-juice

over the side. At intervals a black figure would
come oozing out, as it were, from the deep
shadow forward to the pump, the clank, clank
of which was now a familiar sound in our ears,
though I recognized it as a threat to our repose
when we should come to stretch ourselves for a
little rest ; and you saw the fiery water creeping,
dilating, fading upon the deck like sheets of
wriggling glow-worms, with sometimes a faint
flash of the sea-glow upon the swell of the jib,
rounding to the roll of the little craft when some
sudden brimming of the swell broke into light
against the bows.

"I'm afraid," said I, 'that this part of our
experiences will be pretty nearly as tedious as
our island life."

But we are safe," she answered.

'' I hope so," said I, " though I could wish
there was less need for pumping. But I fear
you will be horribly uncomfortable."

*' Oh, but after last night, Mr. Musgrave ! "
she exclaimed, in a way as though she would
tenderly rebuke me for the little show of irritation
and despondency in my manner just now,
quite perceptible to myself, though I would or

could not cope with It. " You must not think
of me at all — of my comfort, I mean," she added,
and then stopped suddenly, as though she
wondered at her own expression, Immediately
saying, however, " The hardship now Is very
trifling compared to what we have endured."

That's so Indeed," I exclaimed, " but I shall
be glad to exchange this existence though, all
the same. Buffalo beef and flinty biscuit are
not a fare upon which you can long thrive ; and
then what a bedroom that Is down stairs ! I
dread the moment of your going to It. Yet it
is absolutely necessary you should sleep under
deck ; for observe how dark these planks are
already with dew."

"You v/ill take more cheerful views tomorrow,"
she exclaimed ; " you have suffered
much in mind and body, and for your sake, not
for mine. Indeed, I could wish the cabin a
pleasant, airy one, that you might be sure of a
good long night's rest. Sleep Is what you need."

I am thinking," said I, waiving this point,
and continuing to speak with a little Irritation
in me, due, as I should have known by giving
the thing a thought, to my fancy of her changed

attitude towards me, along with the peevish,
secret, jealous dislike of the obligation of conveying
her to my cousin, of losing her then, of
quitting her, consumed by a passion which I
was young enough to imagine neither time nor
distance could possibly cool, — " I am thinking,"
said I, '' that if we were to come across a good,
comfortable, roomy craft, it would be as well for
us to trans-ship ourselves without regard to her
destination."

I will do whatever you wish," she said
simply.

"Only," said I, 'suppose she should be
bound to a European port ? "

She seemed to be sunk in reflection.

'rit would be rather a blow perhaps," I
continued, feeling a bit cynical as I progressed
in this talk, " to be borne off to England or to
France or to Spain even, or say North
America — "

She interrupted me : "" The ship might be
going the other way ; she might be sailing to
the East Indies perhaps, or to Australia."

'* Oh," cried I, with a short laugh, "in that
case then of course we should stop where weare.

But suppose the vessel bound to Europe,
would you be willing to go on board her ? "

'* If it were your wish — yes."

But, Miss Grant, so grave a matter must not
lie altogether upon my shoulders. Remember
your sailing to Europe again would greatly
prolong the term of your divorce from your
sweetheart."

I could see her smiling softly In the moonlight,
though she hung her head. '' We may
not sight a ship," said she, presently.

But If we do," said I, "shall we leave this
crazy old hooker for her ? "

'' Yes," she exclaimed.

Without regard," I said, striving to steady
my voice, though my heart just gave a flop
that was like to choke me, " to the port she Is
bound to ?"

Oh yes," she responded, with a note of
archness In her voice ; " the captain would not
alter his course to oblige us, you know,"

"It would only signify a little further delay,"
said I, " with the comforts of civilization
between, and that's what we both want now.
Of course on our arrival, be the place the

Tagus or the Thames, be it Boston or
Marseilles, I should immediately go to work to
equip ourselves afresh for a second, and I hope
a successful, voyage to Rio."

*' You are very kind," she answered, a little
above her breath, whilst I could see her biting
her lip to another smile.

Late as it was, and wearied as I was when I
saw her to her miserable little hole of a berth,
I yet paced the deck for above an hour afterwards
in as odd, unreasonable a temper as ever
possessed me, full of the agitation of fifty wild
thoughts all rolling one to another in as lively a
play as ever the sea showed off a harbour, with
the water shoaling in spouts to the sweep of
the wind one way, and a current seething into
it the other. The fact was, a resolution to
keep Miss Grant by my side, no matter what
the name of the stars mio^ht be which looked
down upon us, had been growing and hardening
in me, till I whipped out with it in the suggestion
that it would be good for us both to trans-ship
ourselves at the first opportunity that
offered, no matter where the vessel we entered
might be bound. I should have guessed from

her manner all day that such a proposal must
have instantly won an eager anxious No ! from
-her — instead of which she had promptly
assented, saying without hesitation that she
would do as I wished ; and she had made
nothing at all, as you have seen, of my remark
touching the destination of the ship we might
exchange the schooner for. This was a sort of
acquiescence, let me tell you, to excite me not a
little, when I came to turn it over during my
solitary march to and fro the lightly swaying
deck, specially when I coupled it with what I
seemed to find in the memory of her downcast
eyes, her quiet smiles, and a something
more significant than either in her way, to
use the old phrase, though I could not give ita
name.

This, to hark back to the image I have just
employed, was the intellectual gale that set my
thoughts running in surges one way ; and all
would have been an easy rhythmic motion with
me, but for the strong adverse tide of fancy
which came washing into the run of feeling
with consideration of my cousin's claims upon
me, my honour as a gentleman, my duty as a

man. Heaven save me! — in my temper I could
have struck my foot clean through the deck. I
wanted her, I felt that I must possess her, that
I had a higher right to her than ever my cousin
could advance ; and yet the thought of the poor
fellow stuck in my throat, and I grew so mad
with the bother of the whole thing, that I'd
gladly have given the dark who stood at the
helm half a sovereign for liberty to kick him
fore-and-aft until I was tired. After all, thought
I, it is for Miss Grant to decide — she must settle
it. If she persists in making for Rio — if, in
short, she'll have none of me,, though mightily
obliged, and all that sort of thing — and here
my mood grew so outrageous that it was an
exquisite relief to me to see Ducrow's face
sallow even to the starlight, fork up through
the companion with a " Hallo, sal. Keeping'
mighty late hours, ain't yah ? "

"Oh, go to the deuce!" I cried. 'look
here, man, hark to that now, bad luck to you I "
and as I spoke, the clank of the old brake
pump recommenced for the fiftieth time, it
seemed to me, that night. " What's the good
of going to sea in an old basket ? " I shouted.

VOL. III. R

"Why, damme, Ducrow, don't you know that
a dollar's worth of oakum is all that's needed to
keep your abominable old pump from disturbing
the sleep of the green seamen who lie in shoals
here under your keel as you jog along in this
weeping bucket ? "

He stood staring at me from the companion,
as though he thought I had gone mad, and
small blame to him for that ; then approaching
me cautiously, he exclaimed,

*' Berry good job, sal, I'm a man of perlite
feelings, otherwise I might tumble into a
passion, and say something to wound yah
sensations."

"What d'ye mean?" I cried, hoping he
wotild fall into a passion, as I felt the need
of the relief of a row.

"• Sal," he exclaimed, drawing himself erecta
man what keeps de select company I co-mingles
wit ashore am slow in shocking dal
feelings ob folks. But what I should like to
say am — mind I don't say it — I merely intends
dat what I should like to say am, if yah ain't
satisfied wit dis little hooker, I'm weary most
sorry indeed yah ember came aboard her.

Pump ! " continued the poor fellow in a broken
voice as though he must presently weep,
what's dal vessel what don't pump ? What's
dal man-ob-war sloop dat don't pump ? What's
dal Indian as glorious as sunlight wit gilt
and windows wot don't pump ? What," he
continued, raising his voice, '' is de noblest
frigate ob dal King of England wot don't
pump ? What — " and this he delivered in a
shriek — " is dal magnificence line-ob-battle
ship wot was yebber launched wot don't
pump ? "

He plucked his cap from his head and flung
it on deck, grasped the bush of hair over either
ear with his hands as though he intended to
tear out by the roots what nature had left him
in that way, and then, swaying to and fro in the
moonlight like a drunken man, he exclaimed ina
blubbering voice, " An' you specks dal poor
little Orphan to keep dal seas without pumping ?"

Tush I thought I, I'm acting like a fool ; and
moved by the way in which the poor creature
had received my insulting language, I strode
over to him and clapped him on the back.
It's all right," said I ; '' I don't feel very well

R 2

MAROONED. chap.

to-nlo^ht. Pump away as briskly as you please,
my lad, I'll not complain again. I have come
through some infernal adventures, Captain
Ducrow, and though I sneer at your little craft
in my ill-temper, I am grateful to Heaven for
the privilege of feeling her under my feet."

He inclined his dingy fingers out of his
hair and let his arms droop slowly, whilst he
looked at me with his head on one side, with a
slow twisting up of his eye that was in inimitable
correspondence with the absurd cast of his

mouth.

'' I see how it am, sal," he exclaimed ; " yah

feels a bit low."

Worn out without being sleepy," said I.

Sorter hankering to be soothed, perhaps ? "

Yes," I answered, " but your cockroaches
won't help me there."

*tell yah what will though," said he.

*' What ? " I asked.

'' A lite poetry," he answered. " If yah'll
sit down I'll gib yah as pretty a half-hour ob
sentiment as ember yah could buy for hard
money in dis yeerie birth."

Much obliged," I answered. 'since I've

been talking to you I've grown a bit sleepy.
After all, that pump may be more soothing as
you call it than I had supposed. Can you find .
me anything to serve as a pillow ? "

He picked up his cap reflectively and presently
said, '' I hab it," and stepping to a raised
contrivance abaft the rudder-head, he produced
an ensign rolled up. '' Dere," said he, ''dere's
dal British colours to lie on. I'll warrant it
again all dreaming, unless it be a wislon ob de
Income Tax."

I took the roll of bunting, and wishing him
good-night went below, and stretched myself
upon a locker. A slush lamp swung from a
blackened beam. It looked like a coffee-pot
with the spout vomiting forth a lump of wick
burning in a dim flame that blackened Into a
line of smoke, which went writhing and quivering
to the upper deck, whence, spreading, it
loaded the atmosphere of this interior with the
flavour of hot fat. The beams were lined with
cockroaches, wriggling and heaving in dusky
lengths, with a frequent skirr of one of the
abominable creatures swinging past my ear or
dropping upon my face. It was roasting hot,

and I feared to find Miss Grant suffocated
in the morning, if indeed the sun should find
me still alive, after such a course of air as I was
now booked to breathe. But miserable as it
was below I durst not lie on deck. The dew
was like rain, and the light breeze was wet with
it. Further exposure, moreover, following on
top of what we had already suffered in the boat,
would have been sheer madness, seeing that we
had managed to come off with our health, which
might receive lasting injury from another night
spent unsheltered in the warm, moist, fever-breeding
atmosphere of these parallels.

I had thought the Iron Crown as noisy a
ship as was ever built, but compared with the
creaking of this schooner, as she rose buoyant
to the dark heave of the swell, floating down
into the hollow for another slide upwards, the
straining sounds inside of the brig were as the
soft singing of a woman to the clatter of a
watchman's rattle. But I was dog-tired, as
they say at sea, and my cheek could not have
pressed the ensign ten minutes before I was
sound asleep.

It was a night's rest to refresh me, and though,

when I woke up and rolled off the locker, my
back ached from the hardness of my couch, I
felt a new man, hearty, hungry, and even cheerful.
But it was sickening though to go on
deck and find a dead calm, the sea molten
glass, scarce stirred by a delicate undulation,
the sun an Intolerable flame of fire four hours
high, with the heavens half full of his white
dazzle, and the rest of it hot, silver azure,
down to the opalescent edge of the water. In
the far east was a dot of light — a sail ; and
some four points past It to starboard a streak of
greenish colour swimming a fingers-width above
the horizon, and winding like a small sea-snake
in the hot air. It was some Cay, the name of
which I have forgotten. There was nothing
besides it and the sail in sight, not a pinion of
cloud to give us hope of so much as a caspar.
Miss Grant was on deck when I arrived
there. She had slept — not very well she told
me ; but she had managed to obtain rest enough
to refresh her spite of the oven-like sultriness in
which she lay. She was awake when the day
broke, and rose soon after the light had filled
the cabin.

** You were sleeping heavily as I passed,"
she said, *' and in spite of being covered with
cockroaches."

'would you think me querulous and ill-tempered
now," said I, looking at her, "after
such a night as we have passed, for advising
our trans-shipment at the earliest possible opportunity
? "

"Did I not say, Mr. Musgrave," she answered,
with a demureness that was full of archness,
that I am willing to do exactly as you please ? "

I sent a glance deep into her eyes, but the
riddle went the whole length of my sight and
beyond it. Does she guess that I love her ?
I thought ; and can I suppose that she is even
a little bit fond of me — in the right sort of way,
I mean ? But here Ducrow stumped up to ask
us where we would breakfast.

Our first day in the open boat had been a
dead calm, as you know, but this was deader
yet as it seemed to me, perhaps because of my
impatience, that would grow to a torment when
hour after hour passed, and the spot of light
that signified the sail still hung starless in the
same quarter, with the streak of green past it

flickering like a blowing pennon on top of
the white gleam that trembled betwixt the blue
of the sea and the blue of the sky, and never a
shadow of air from sunrise to sundown to dye a
fathom's space of the fiery, breathless surface.
There was no comfort to be eot out of the
schooner at all, saving the news that there was
plenty of fresh water aboard. The pump clanked
steadily at regular periods throughout the long
hours. Now and again would come a brief bit
of diversion in the shape of a quarrel between
two negroes, and in Captain Ducrow's airs and
talk there was much to laugh at ; but the calm
was in all things and over all things, flattening
down the spirits to its own monotonous level,
with the heat so great besides that it prohibited
one the ease of venting one's self bv eao^er
exercise ; though again and again I'd half start
from my seat with a longing of my temper to
exhale itself in a spell of swift, passionate pacing
from the taftrail to as far forward as I could
have got. On the other hand, ?^Iiss Grant was
reserved, quiet, thoughtful ; always gentle and
kind ; welcoming my lightest speech with a
smile ; humouring my little fits of petulance, and

making the best of our situation by recurrence
to the misery from which we had been delivered.
But her gaze no longer met mine with the old
brilliant, intrepid steadfastness. There was, methought,
a suggestion of coyness about it that
showed somewhat oddly when I contrasted it
with the dignified sweetness and fearless candour
of her earlier bearing. It chilled her manner,
to my fancy, as something foreign to her nature,
and complicated the conundrum for me yet, for
there were times when a look from her, a gesture,
a smile, would convey notions that set my heart
off at a rapid trot, and then the surface would
thinly ice again, and leave me as bewildered
as a man who struggles to hunt out another's
meaning in a book, the pages of which have
been wrongly stitched.

wye QUIT THE ORPHAN.

Well, we had three days of this sort of
thing — three days and three nights of it ; and
then on the morning of the fourth a breeze of
wind darkened and roughened the western ocean,
and presently the hide schooner was again underway,
off her course by some three and a half
points, but sweeping through it gaily nevertheless,
showing herself as rejoiced at her release
as if a human heart beat in her, with sharp clips
of her sheering stem at the frothing surges
melting to her bow, and a saucy whisking of
crystals to the wind, and much coquettish
prancing and whipping of her ill-conditioned
spars, all as though the little crazy beauty should
say, " I have started on a dance ; the fiddles
have struck up ; hark to their strains in the

rigging ! — no white foam-finger along my path
shall detain me ; every offered kiss of the blue
billow will be repulsed." Ducrow slapped his
thighs and urged her on, bursting into thick
laughter at times in his glee, and pointing with
a yell of applause to the sparking out of the
flying-fish, as though, like an overgrown child,
he tasted a kind of victory in the flight of the
beautiful little creatures from the winged and
buoyant and floating rushes of his leaking,
trembling, pump-sodden, worn-out old
Orphan.

This day, shortly after noon, a small brig
passed us. When I first sighted the squares
of her canvas I took her to be a big ship, for
she showed a sky-sail on the main, which threw
her up tall and spire-like as she came blowing
up, radiant as cotton could make her, over the
blue edge. I had not said a word to Ducrow
about our intention of leaving his schooner if a
chance came, but I thought I would do so now,
specially as yonder craft promised the opportunity
I had fallen half crazy in yearning for
during our time of stagnation. But first I spoke
to Miss Grant. We were sitting under the

little awning aft, whence we had a good view
of the distant sail as it slowly enlarged.

If that ship there will receive us," said I,
*' shall we exchange this schooner for her ? "

"You must think me very capricious, Mr.
IMusgrave," she answered ; " have I not again
and again answered yes to such another question
as that ? When my mind is made up, I do not
quickly change it indeed without excellent
reason."

But I want you to reflect. I wish you to
think for yourself, and of yourself wholly. Be
that fellow's destination what it will, he is bound
to sail as straight for it as the wand will let him.
He is heading about east. Now that is a
direction exactly contrary to your wishes."

My wishes ! "

I mean that his bowsprit points to any
other quarter of the world than where Rio
lies."

She looked at me an instant with an expression
in her eyes which showed her mind
to be full, though I was too blind to make out
a shadow of what was there — too sensitive
perhaps I should say, for to be over sensitive

is to be worse than blind sometimes ; and then
after a Httle pause, she said quietly, " Once
more, Mr. Musgrave, I'm quite willing to leave
the schooner."

Captain Ducrow ! " I sung out.

Hill, sal ! " he answered from the rail,
where he was standing with his arm round a
backstay, watching with a grin the flash of his
little ship through the small ridges which
whitened into cream along the dirty green of
the vessel's sheathing.

*' Step this way, will you ? " said I.

He sprang to the deck and approached.

We want you to speak that vessel," said I,
pointing. '' In a word, we wish you to stop
her so that we can go aboard of her, as we find
your accommodation scarcely all that we require,
at least under these burning heights ; otherwise,
we're both of us quite in love with your charming
little vessel, whilst we highly value you for
your good breeding, and thank you excessively
for the attention you have paid us."

This bit of towering I deemed necessary
that the rest might be easy, but his surprise
mastered his gratification, and with a sort of

grin in his twisted mouth, whilst his eyes on
the other hand stared their amazement, he cried,
*yah want to leave dal Orphan, hein ? 'commodation
not good ? But I know dal reason.
De calm's disgusted yah Yah was weary most
satisfied afore de wind fell."

Come, captain," said I, ** it shall be all the
same to you. See here ? " I pulled out my
pocket-book and produced a bank-note for
twenty pounds. "There," said I, slapping it,
place us aboard yonder craft, and this is yours.
Of course, if she's bound to some outlandish
place we shan't quit you ; but put us within
hailing distance, will you ? — signal to speak her ;
and if she will receive us, and her destination
be some port convenient to ourselves, you shall
have this money the same as though you had
landed us at Havana."

He eyed the note greedily as I folded it up
and returned it to the pocket-book, following
that too till it was hidden, and then said, "All
right, sal. Yah '11 miss de Orphan — dere's
nuffen afloat — but den ob course if dal lady
hasn't comfortable — " He suddenly roared out
Hi, Moses ! you black tees, lay aft, mal bird

ob Paradise, an hoist dat ensign half-mast high.
Dat'll make 'em reckon we've got something
on our minds."

The negro came shambling along with the
ensign that I had slept on, and a very tattered
symbol of Britannia's mercantile sovereignty
floated slowly aloft, and then blew out when
within a dozen feet of the topmast-head. The
stranger, however, appeared to take no notice of
this. There was no telescope aboard us, but
she was near enough now to enable me to distinguish
her with the naked eye. She showed
no colour, nor indeed exhibited any disposition
to shift her helm to bear down to us. Ducrow
luffed till our canvas was shaking fore and aft,
so that nothing could have been more expressive
of our desire to speak than the posture of
the schooner, almost at a stand, plunging to the
short sea that she had now brought almost right
ahead, with every dingy balsamic cloth on
her trembling, and the half-masted ensign
streaming like a flame aloft, and giving deep
emphasis to every hint discoverable in the
schooner's attitude. As the stranger drew out
she showed herself a brig, a smaller vessel than

the Iron Crown, though large enough to have
stowed the Orphan between her rails. She was
under all plain sail, with the weather clue of the
mainsail up, and she sliced past with graceful
courtesies upon the swell, a streak of gold
gleaming at her forefoot to the light of her bows,
with a yeasty, trembling hurrying along it like a
ball of white wool there, which unwound itself
as she thrust it forwards. But though she did
not alter her course by so much as a quarter of
a point, our own wind-jamming brought her
close enough aboard to enable us to see her
people clearly. A couple of figures were pacing
the poop under the snow-white awning. There
was a group of heads forwards, and a sailor in
the foretopmast-rigging swinging out with his
face towards the schooner watching us. What
her nationality was I do not know. I fancied I
could trace something of a Yankee paternity in
the colour of her cloths and the hoist of her
topsails ; but be this as it may, had we been
some green old water-logged hulk, hoary with
barnacles, we could scarce have won less not ce.
Nothing imaginable could be more provoking
than the sight of those two figures on the poop,
^'0L. III. s

coolly stumping to and fro with our half-mast
ensign fair in their view, and our little ship all
in the wind, piteous to the eye with the trembling
solicitude her shivering canvas gave to
her mute appeal.

'' Dem's no sailors," cried Ducrow, '' dey's
what's call scow-bankers. Moses, mal honey,
yah may haul down dal ensign. Ebenezer, my
hub, up helium an' fill on de little beauty again.
There'll be more ships passing presently," he
added, addressing me. Then clapping his
hands together, he yelled at the top of his pipes,
Tail on to dal troat halliards, mal sweet and
pleasant liveries ; gib dal Orphan a chance,
boys. Look at dal set ob dat sail. What's de
gal whose vine to dance wit de heel ob her
boot wore down ? " saying which he flung himself
excitedly upon the tackle in question,
roaring out in thick negro accents —

Wah'^re dal dandy ship an' dal dandy crew.
{CJiorus of black throats pulling behind him)
Hi, sal ! ho, sal ! slap 'im up cheerly !
We am dal boys who's dal lady's only joys,
{Clwrus of black throats pulling)
An' dal gals dey hub us dearly.

full Chorus
An' it's yo hi ho ! dal breeze him do blow,
An' dal tack will come taut wit dal jigger 1
An' dal ship she roll along
To as lubberly a song
As was ember sweetly sung by a nigger."

The job of sall-setting being ended, Ducrow
looked at me to see what I thought of his song
manifestly a composition of his own, sung to
an air that had an odd touch of African wildness
in it, at least to my fancy, as it floated
ventrally through the enormous mouths and
blubber lips of the chorusing niggers. But I
was too keenly disappointed and mortified by
the cool behaviour of the prior to heed him.

Our chance however was presently to come,
though wee had to wait for it a little while longer.
It was the sixth day of our being on board the
schooner Orphan. Long spells of dead calms,
of light head-winds, and small baffling breezes
had resulted, spite of the subtle quality of
sneaking through it possessed by the little craft,
in our discovering that Havana still lay a fair
week's sail away from us, even supposing a
prosperous wind every day, and an average run
of a hundred miles in the twenty-four hours.

s 2

At wide intervals a sail would show remote and
faint upon the horizon, often vanishing magically,
like a wreath of mist devoured by the
sun. Life even on board a large West India-man
in these waters, the most roasting liquid
tract on the face of the world, is unendurable
enough even with a wide spread of snow-white
awnings to cool the deck, with shadow from the
forecastle to the taffrail ; great cabin-windows
wide open, the heels of windsails penetrating
every aperture, with a constant sluicing of the
planks to keep them cool. But think of a
small red-hot schooner, that in moments of a
breathless calm, when the sun stood almost
overhead, tingled with sounds as though she
were actually frying ! the cockroaches multiplying
day by day, the cabin atmosphere growing
more and more difficult to breathe every time
one entered it, no shelter save a strip of awning
aft, nothing better to eat than salt meat and
ship's biscuit, nor to drink than cold water, of
which, though the stock was plentiful, the
quality was by no means good, and which was
certainly not to be rendered more palatable by
the one jar of fiery rum that Ducrow kept

secret in his lazarette, never producing it without
taking a dark and suspicious view of the
Httle skylight, or going on tiptoe to the companion
to make sure that no man of his crew
was peering down.

But there was bound to come an end some
day or other to these faint gasping of catspaws ;
to the intolerable brassy dazzle of the noontide
heavens, to the putrefying calms of the night,
with dim configurations of phosphorus and
graveyard glowing of ghostly fires, making
one think with the poet that the very deep was
rotting.

It was the morning of the sixth day of our
rescue from the perils of the open boat. All
night long the weather had been breathless, but
with the rising of the sun there had come a
small breeze of wind, a little to the eastward
of south, which as the morning advanced
freshened, and the schooner was sliding through
it once again, heading saucily along her course,
with Ducrow strutting the deck in high spirits,
a couple of negroes repairing a sail forward,
another at the tiller, a fourth perspiring at
the old pump.

Suddenly Ducrow bawled out, " Sail ho ! "
pointing ahead.

I looked languidly in the direction he indicated,
not rising even, so sick was I of this
cry of '' Sail ho ! " heretofore as barren to my
purpose as a parrot's meaningless croak of the
words. I was conversing with Miss Grant at
the time, and turned to her afresh, proceeding
in what I was saying without giving the
vessel ahead another thought. Time passed ;
presently Ducrow said, " Dat fellow's a big 'un
what's coming 'long dal. We mustn't hab de
go-by given us this time, if it's to be helped,
sal. Must make more fuss, otherwise dere's
no chance ob getting compassionate." So
saying, he went to the little locker, took out
the ensign, and bent it. Jack down, to the
halliards, and ran it half-mast high, belaying it
slackly that it might blow out with a good
visible curve. This done, he bawled to his
men to shorten sail.

*' Down jib, mal blackbirds ! down wit both
topsails ! jump, mal blacks, jump ! Hurrah
now fo' de ship. Up maintain, let go mainpeak-
halliards. Now den, Hebenezer, you black

tees, down helium, and trow us right up into de
wind — up into de wind — up into de wind, I
says," walloping about in a most extraordinary
manner as he bawled these orders, and springing
from the deck on his naked feet as though
the planks were too hot — and well they might
be ! — to suffer him to stand upon them. Thus
all in a moment, so to say, the little schooner
was brought to a halt ; her mainsail "scandalized
" her masts half denuded of canvas, her
bowsprit pointing to the wind, the few cloths
she showed shivering to the breeze with such a
symbol of human distress flying aloft as richly
coloured and most admirably rounded off the
picture of misery which the posture of the vessel
now submitted.

The stranger was heading dead for us, as
though she must run us down indeed, so
immediately were we lying athwart her hawse.
She came steadily along, with her yards braced
forward, a vessel apparently of six hundred
tons, painted black, standing high out of water,
a foretopmast-staysail set, her royal yards close
to the trucks, with a glimpse to be had of large
black tops under the curve of her topsails. I

went with Miss Grant to the side to watch the
stranger. My heart beat fast with expectation,
yet I struggled hard with my impulse of hope,
dreading in the mood I then was the effect of a
second disappointment. Suddenly the vessel
took in her foretopmast-staysail, then a spot of
colour floated aloft past the shining round of
her courses to the gaff end. It blew out, and I
muttered just above my breath, " Thank God ! "
as I recognized the English flag.

He means to speak us, at all events," I
cried. '' Pray Heaven he will show mercy,
and take us off this schooner. Why, if he
were bound on a search for the Nor-West
passage I'd go with him."

I dare say," Miss Grant exclaimed, in a
musing sort of way, " that the captain of that
ship will wonder at our wish to leave the
schooner when we are within a week's sail of
Havana."

'' Yes," said I, looking at her, whilst she

kept her face averted by continuing to gaze at

the approaching vessel ; " but sue are not bound

to Havana, you know. Rio is the place we

started for ; and besides, are we within a week's

sail of Havana ? Perhaps tomorrow may
introduce a succession of calms that shall last a
month, during all which time we are to lie herein
this scorched schooner, with our lovely
countenances slowly roasting into a rich brown
under yonder heavenly furnace ! Eh, Miss
Grant ? Never mind about that skipper there
wondei'ijto'. Better Van Diemen's Land in a
ship like yon, as they'd say in the north, than
Havana with Rio close on its heels in this
little frying-pan."

She turned just to glance at me, with a
gleam like a smile in the look she shot through
the dark fringes that drooped again as she
resumed her attitude of watching the coming
ship. 'Twas not often that I got a view of her
mind ; but by her manner then, it seemed to me
it was her intention to let me know she had
obtained a very accurate sight of mine. Be it
so, thought I ; but if that craft there will receive
us, we'll board her all the same.

She was a handsome picture as she drew
close, becalming the blue under her lee into a
trembles mirror, in which the reflection of her
swelling canvas sank in cream, but lustrous as

silver too. She had so keen a stem that she
clove the rippling surface with scarce the
disturbance of a flash of froth in the wrinkles
which broke from her brows, and which went
away astern of her in lines of light when her
shadow was off them, and when they streamed
fair to the sun. She was headings as if to run
us down, but on a sudden her main-topsail was
braced aback, with a falling off of her head that
gave us a view of her decks, with two white
quarter-boats swinging at the weather davits ;
a couple of men standing at the poop-rail
clothed in white, with broad straw hats ; beyond
them the flutter of woman's apparel, as I
thought ; several sailors on the ,
their whole shapes plain through the
low. open rail that protected this part of the
craft. As she came floating alongside within
easy talking distance, she seemed to tower
above us like a line-of-battle ship. One of the
two men dressed in white approached the
mizzen-rigging to hail us. I now saw a woman
standing near the skylight, and at that moment
another woman came up through the little
companion-hatch and joined her.

Ducrow sprang upon the bulwarks, and
pulling off his cap he wildly flourished it, whilst
he vociferated, ''Ho, dal ship ahoy ! "

'' Hallo ! " responded the man standing at
the mizzen-rigging.

*' What ship am dat ? " bawled Ducrow, but
with a fine air of importance in his manner, as
though this where a ceremony to yield him
dignity, and therefore to be made as much of
as possible. I secretly bestowed a sea-blessing
or two upon his bald head in my impatience ;
but it would not do to interrupt him.

The Bristol Trader," came back the
answer, " of and for Bristol from Havana,
five days out. And what schooner's that ? "

'' Dal Orphan ob Nassoo, bound to Havana,
but procrastinated by calms and head-winds.
We hab something pertikler to communicate,
and well send a boat."

"Ay," cried the other; 'but can't you tellus
what's the matter with you without sending
a boat ? You have your ensign Jack down ;
what is wrong ? Bear a hand, for time's
precious."

On hearing this, and fearing that Ducrow

would muddle this opportunity away for us
with his negro ratifications and fine airs
and words, I sprang on to the rail beside him, and
with a thrust of my elbow tumbled him inboard.

"Ship ahoy!" I shouted.

'hallo!"

The case is this. This lady," pointing to
Miss Grant, " and myself sailed as passengers
from the Downs in June last aboard the brig
Iron Crown. There was a mutiny. The mate
was killed, the captain disappeared, and the
brig was headed for Cuba. One of the Bahama
Cays was made, and this lady and I were
marooned on it. A boat came ashore, we left
the island in her, and were picked up by this
schooner, and we desire to exchange her for
your ship, if you will receive us as passengers."

The man in white flourished his hand,
Come aboard," he exclaimed ; '' I dare say
we can arrange."

Over wit dal boat, over wit dal boat, mal
carries," screamed Ducrow. " Hurrah now,
bullies, no stopping now to shave, if yah please ;
'taint dinner-time yet, so no loafing."

The schooner carried a boat on chocks amidships

; as leaky, sun-blistered, paint-denuded a
fabric as the mother whose child she was. The
gangway was unshipped, the three negroes and
Ducrow yelling and bawling all together, and
stamping with their naked feet till the thrashing
of the decks sounded like twenty or thirty
people clapping their hands, ran the boat to
the gangway, and launched her smack-fashion.
The excitement of one negro however carried
him overboard with her. He fell plump, but
his black head instantly shot up alongside
like a sweep's brush out of a chimney-pot, and
in a trice he was in the boat, combing the wet
out of his breeches and grinning into Ducrow's
face, who shook his fist at him as "dal clumsiest
son ob a hog wit a sow for a grandmother as
was ember to be met 'pon dal high seas."

A second negro then jumped into the boat,
into which the water was beginning to drain in
twenty places, so that I saw if we did not bear
a hand we should be awash before we had half
measured the distance between the schooner
and the ship. The negroes threw the oars
over, and splashed me alongside the Bristol
Trader as though rowing for a wager, with a

dollar for the man who should catch the most
*' crabs." I sprang into the main-chains, and
in a minute stood upon the ship's poop.

The captain, as the man who had hailed
us proved to be, was an intelligent-looking,
weather-darkened, iron-haired fellow of some
forty-five years, thin, smooth-faced, with a gray,
seaward eye, kind in its expression. I raised
my hat, he did the same. I repeated my story,
now relating it circumstantially. The two
women drew near as I talked, and he interrupted
me once to introduce me to one of them
as his wife, to the other as a friend of hers, who
was going home in his ship as a passenger.
My romantic story seemed quite to the taste
of these ladies, who frequently broke out into
exclamations of astonishment, whilst they sent
glances full of curiosity at Miss Grant, who
had withdrawn to the shelter of the awning
on the schooner's quarter-deck, and sat there
watching us, too far off for her beauty to be
evident, though one might have guessed her
charms even at that distance by the delicate
light of her face under her broad hat.

But you were bound to Rio," said the captain.

*' Yes," I answered.

You may easily get to Rio from Havana,"
he continued. "That schooner should carry
you to Havana in a week. It seems a pity
to travel all the way home again, when your
port is comparatively at hand. We could
provision you too with a few articles to render
the run more tolerable."

'' No," said I warmly, '' there is nothing in
food and drink to render that schooner tolerable.
Her cabin creeps with cockroaches, the
atmosphere can scarce be respired for the heat
and smell of it. The lady and I have talked
the matter over, and we are earnest in our wish
to return to England. Why, see here, sir ;
you'll be able to land us at Bristol before we
could hope to reach Rio, even suppose yonder
schooner should convey us to Havana in a
week's time, which I gravely question when I
recall the spells of weather which have nearly
murdered us. Of course," I went on, seeing
him look a bit reflective, " we should ask you
to receive us as passengers, that is to say, as
people who will be glad to defray all charges
for accommodating us""

Oh," he said, in a tone of indifference,
that matter can be hereafter settled. As a
mere question of humanity it would be my
duty to receive you. You have no luggage,
you say ? "

'' None."

** Well, sir, the lady can come along at once."
He looked over the side. " Hi, you Jumbos !
shove off now, and bring the lady aboard."

I hailed the schooner : *' Miss Grant, the
negroes will fetch you. Ducrow, come you
along with the lady that you may receive your
money."

Ten minutes later I had assisted Miss Grant
over the side, and escorted her on to the poop.
She bowed with stately grace to the two
women, who courtesies to her as though she
were a princess. The captain, whose name
by the way was Foljambe, held a trifle aloof
at sight of her, eyeing her with a mixture of
astonishment and admiration. Perhaps now,
with a couple of her own sex at hand to contrast
her by, helped by such definition as her
fine fissure would obtain from the white and
roomy deck, the clean brass-work, the sparkling

skylights, the snowy awning, with the wheel
in the sunshine past it, at which stood the
smartly-dressed figure of an English sailor
carelessly leaning upon the spokes, watching us
under the spread of a great Cuban hat — perhaps
now, in the swift glance I threw at her, I could
see in a manner scarce to be managed before,
how little her beauty had suffered from the
trials we had come through, from exposure to
the high sun, from the many bitter anxieties
which had clouded her mind. The glow of
the tropics was in her cheek, and seemed to
clarify the brightness and to enrich the loveliness
of her full, dark, speaking eyes ; the very
neglect of apparel enforced by privation appeared
as a grace in her, as the dishevelment
of her soft brown lustrous hair gave a character
of romance to the dignified sweetness of her
countenance. I could not wonder that Mrs.
Foljambe and her friend stared, nor that the
captain should have fallen back a step to her
approach, as though veritably startled by her
beauty, as I had been indeed when I first met
her.

Captain Ducrow came up to mee, cap in hand.

VOL. III. T

His strut was Incomparable. I heard the half-smothered
laughter of men forward as he
bowed first to the captain's wife, then to her
friend, then to the captain, bringing his cap to
his heart, and slowly bending his body, till I
thought he had a mind to double himself up
after the manner of stao^e contortionists.

Berry sorry to lose yah, Massa Musgrave,"
he said to me, " and berry much sorrier still
to say good-bye to dis most bountiful lady,
which," he added, with an emotional grunt In
his voice, " I- may nebber, nebber see again In
dis yeerie earth — " He was proceeding, but I
could see that Captain Foljambe was impatient.
So I cut him short by handing him the banknote,
and then shook him warmly by the hand,
thanking him with the sort of sincerity that a
man who had gone through what I had could
hardly miss of, for his rescue of us and his
subsequent kindness. Miss Grant also gave
him her hand, addressing a few words of
gratitude ; but my gravity vanished when the
poor fellow suddenly plumped down on one
knee and lifted her fingers to the side of his
face where his mouth was.

*' Now then, skipper," cried Captain
Foljambe, " away with ye, my lad. This is the
breeze to make the most of, so please don't
keep me waiting."

Gor bless yah ! Gorramighty in leben bless
yah both, an' make yah happy," cried the poor
fellow backing to the gangway as though from
the presence of royalty, and speaking with
so much emotion that I looked to see him
blubber. '' May dal good Lord look down
pon dis ship, and send yah ten-knot breezes all
dal way ; " and arrived at the' gangway, he
dropped over the side, and was pulled to his
little schooner.

*' Get your topsail-yard swung, Mr. Murphy,'
exclaimed the captain, addressing the mate
who was the other of the two men I had
noticed clothed in white, and who had been
standing quietly on the lee-side of the poop,
waiting for this business to end.

The sailors sprang to the braces ; the great
yards came slowly round, the sails, silk-white to
the sunshine, swelled out to the blue breeze,
and the Bristol Trader was heading along on
her course again. Meanwhile the two negroes

T 2

had splashed Ducrow aboard his Httle schooner
in hot haste, to save themselves the job of
baling the boat, as I suspected ; but I gathered
what the hurry was about, when the poor
yellow-faced fellow, who had drawn his cap
down over his ears in his excitement, floundered
as though pursued by a bull to the signal-halliards,
hauled down the ensign with frantic
gesticulations, bent it on afresh with the Jack
right-side up, and then sent it aloft again,
yelling to one of his negroes to lay aft in a
voice that was distinctly audible, though the
distance between the vessels was being magically
widened, considering the lightness of the
breeze. The negro seized one length of the
halliards, Ducrow the other, and between them
they dipped the flag, that Is to say, they
lowered it as a token of farewell — hoisting It
anew, and then lowering it — not once, not five
times, but over and over and over again ; the
whole dusky crowd of them howling a good-bye
at us every time the flag rose to the masthead,
until the schooner had slipped so far astern that
their voices could no longer be caught, whilst the
flag itself had dwindled into a mere red spot.

It was the last I saw of the little craft ere I
turned to accept Captain Foljambe's invitation
to step below. I behold her now again with my
mind's eye, heaving to the long ocean swell,
with a tremor of light in her black side, as she
lifts It wet from the brine, slowly paying off
with her jib rounding, her main-peak hoisting, a
dingy white topsail slowly creeping to the masthead,
the Liliputianlzed figures of her crew
making a very toy of the little fabric Indeed as
she heads slowly into the mighty loneliness of
the ocean past her bows, with the glare of the
sun in the sky over her going down like a wall
of dazzling brass to the sifting Into It of the
whitish blue of the heavens trembling upon the
remote western confines. Ah, there are no
memories so dream-like as those one carries
away from the ocean.

HOME.

The Bristol Trader was one of the most
comfortable ships of her class that ever I was
aboard of. Her cabins were tall and roomy,
her decks spacious, her port-holes large, her
hatchways big enough to serve for an emigrant
ship. After our experiences on the island, in
the open boat, and on the schooner, it was like
arriving at some cheerful, hospitable inn, with
the welcome of a blazing fire, a hot supper, and
a warm bed, after hours of blind groping over
miles of snow-clad moors, to find one's self in
such a ship as this. One needs to be marooned
to appreciate comforts made cheap by homeliness
and familiarity. We had been absolutely
destitute aboard the schooner, without the
commonest and meanest conveniences — no hairbrush,

no towels, soap, sheets, and what not ;
nay, there had not been even a looking-glass,
and neither Miss Grant nor I had the least idea
of the sort of faces we submitted until we had
been conducted to our cabins by Captain
Foljambe and his wife. I borrowed a razor
from the captain, and shaved myself for the
first time since I had left the island, and I
protest the sensation was as though nature had
clothed me in a new skin. It is the commonplaces
of life which make themselves heard of
in maritime disasters. The captain was good
enough to lend me a clean shirt and collar, with
other articles of underclothing, all which sat
very comfortably upon me, as we were pretty
nearly of the same build. He told me that his
wife was taking care of Miss Grant, that she
(namely Mrs. Foljambe), together with her
friend Mrs. Tweed, had between them a
plentiful stock of clothing, so that my companion
could be at once made comfortable, and
kept so until our arrival at Bristol.

He was a man that improved on acquaintance,
shrewd, respectful, sailorly in a sort of
careless manner that was a grace in its way,

well Spoken, with something of the manners
of a well-bred gentleman, roughened without
being coarsened by the usage of the ocean.

He sat in my bunk whilst I dressed, and
asked me many questions about the Iron Crown,
and our life on the island. He could give meno
news of the brig, did not seem to know of
her name even, but he told me that whilst at
Havana he had heard of a vessel which had
fallen in with a boat containing four men, that
had gone adrift during thick weather from the
craft that owned it ; and this coming on top of
Ducrow's narration, confirmed my belief that
Gordon and the others had been saved ; for
which I was heartily thankful indeed.

It was long past the dinner-hour, but neither
Miss Grant nor I had broken out fast since the
morning.

On my telling Captain Foljambe this he
immediately gave orders to his steward to prepare
a meal for us in the cabin, and by the
time I had finished civilizing myself with the
razor, hairbrush, and the skipper's linen, the
meal awaited us : cold roast chicken, fine white
biscuits, ham, several plates of fruit with the

sweetness of the tropic soil still in their flavour
and freshness, a decanter of brandy, a 7no7ikey
of cold water — why, Heaven bless us ! after
poor Ducrow's brine-toughened buffalo meat
and his caulkers of water warm from the scuttle-butts,
this was such a princely regale that the
recollection of it bids fair to outlast the memory
of many a sumptuous banquet that I had before
and have since sat down to. The afternoon
sunshine flashed azure off the water through
the open ports, and filled the interior with a soft
golden haze that floated cool to every sense in
me after our days and nights of the Orphan's
cabin, upon the atmosphere freshened by the
gushing of air from the white canvas tubes of
the windsails, whilst the eye was soothed by the
violet shadow cast by the awning down upon
the open skylights, in whose gaping casements
the hot breeze hummed as though it echoed
the burden of the island insect chorus.

I was conversing with the captain's wife and
Mrs. Tweed, two very homely, unaffected
ladies, brimful of kindness and sympathy, when
Miss Grant arrived. I had never seen her
beauty look so rich. The peculiar complexion

of the atmosphere in the cabin just then may have
helped her, but methought there was the glory
of the newly-blown flower in her as she stood a
moment after coming out of her cabin, instantly
smiling as our gaze met. I brought her to the
table, and we seated ourselves. There was a
West Indian plant, bearing a starched flower
lovely as the lily, but inodorous, trained against
the handsomely-framed trunk of the mizzen-mast,
sloping abaft the table from the deck to the
cabin. The captain cut one of these flowers and
presented it with a sailorly bow to Miss Grant,
who thanked him, and put it in her bosom.

This sort of thing," said I, almost jealous
to think that the hand of a stranger should
have touched a stem that was to find so sacred
a resting-place, '' makes one feel alive again. I
fancy I must have been dead for a month,
perhaps a little longer. Everything strikes me
with an astonishment that is preposterously
unnatural. This damask table-cloth, how
white it is ! this crystal tumbler — I never before
knew glass to sparkle so ! and yonder roast
chicken ! — upon my word, I thought there had
been an end of hens."

The captain laughed. " I have been shipwrecked,
sir," he exclaimed. " I've known
the time when the hairy face of a seaman, all
knobs and warts, has set me weeping as though
I was taking my last view of the only man left
in the world besides myself."

How very odd ! " exclaimed Mrs. Foljambe.
'' I've never heard you say that before,
William."

i\Iy dear," said he, "had it been the last
wo7nan perhaps I shouldn't have cried."

Because I dare say you'd have taken care
it shouldn't have been your last view of her,"
observed Mrs. Tweed dryly. This lady was a
widow.

Now, Miss Grant," said I, working away at
the roast fowl and ham, and immensely enjoying
Captain Foljambe's excellent old brandy "shall
we ask our kind friend here to shift his helm
and give chase to the schooner, that we may
overhaul and board her afresh, and make our
way to Havana in her ? "

"If you will return to her, I will," she
answered.

That means no," said Captain Foljambe.

No for all hands. Bad look-out to shift the
helm now, Miss Grant. It blows a pretty six-knot
breeze."

Hurrah ! " cried I. " Why, with this clipper
keel under us we shall be heaving Bristol into
sight whilst the little Orphan is still dodging the
ghost of a caspar in waters not yet hull down.
No, no, it was a voyage not to be pursued. A
twenty-five-ton boat, Mrs. Foljambe ! her one
pump going day and night ! all the plagues of
Egypt rolled into one, in the shape of cockroaches
! Think of /^<3;/, Mrs. Tweed."

"Shocking, sir," she cried, "the horrid
creatures ! But there are none here, thank
goodness."

Here and there one," said the captain.

And so we went on, chatting and eating, then
mounted on deck, I with a big Havana cigar
in my mouth, so joyous in spirits that it might
have needed but a band of music to have
started me off dancing for the rest of the day.
What words have I to describe the delight that
filled me, as I looked at the sparkling blue sea,
sloping between the awning-stanchions to the
heavens, which were reddening all round to the

westering of the luminary, and at the swelling

folds of the courses, which, past the edge of

our canvas shelter, rose in stately cloud upon

cloud, every cloth silently doing its work,

rounding marble-like to leeward, the shadows of

the rigging lying in delicate curves in each still,

snow-like heart, and the tinkle of water swiftly

shorn at the stem faintly sweeping a bell-like

note through the steady breeding of the wind !

The ocean looked boundless from the height of

the poop-deck, and the way before us was yet a

long road. But my heart beat the more gladly

for the very thought of it when I turned to look

at Aurelia Grant, and reflected that she was

still by my side ; that for many a week wee should

be together ; that, in short, I had by this

manoeuvre indefinitely postponed the hour of

our separation. Was I dishonourable ? Was I

disloyal ? Was I unfaithful to my trust ? Maybe,

maybe. How yon would have acted in my case

I cannot tell. Fallibility must fail somewhere,

says the old moralist. And I was in love.

But you have made one eventful voyage with
me, and I am as little desirous possibly as you that
you should undertake a second uneventful one —

uneventful, I mean, in respect of incident, for we
were a smart ship, and the crew hearty and honest,
the captain a wise disciplinarian, and his two
mates plain, sturdy, steady-going seamen. Yet
though uneventful In the sense of gales of wind,
collisions, lee-shores, leaks, mutinies, and the
rest of the list of maritime perils, for me It was
marked by a passage that rendered It more
stirring than all the experiences we had gone
through boiled down into one could have proved.
I have spoken of a quality of reserve in Miss
Grant's manner when aboard the schooner, of
my own sensitiveness to It, and how between us
there had come something that seemed to hold
us a bit apart ; but this had made way before
we left the little vessel for the old frankness,
the warmth, the sweet and fearless cordiality of
her bearing towards me when on the Island.
Yet we had not been twenty-four hours In the
Bristol Trader when I noticed that her behaviour
was once more charged with a chilly
and uncomfortable element of reserve. Then
she even grew timorous at times, shunning my
gaze, though sometimes I'd catch her unawares
watching me with an expression of wistfulness

that lay sad in her eyes, Hke a shadow of
melancholy there. I very well knew she had
guessed that my proposal to sail home was
merely that I might possess her society for
some weeks or perhaps months longer, and I
would fancy that in thinking over this she had
come to resent it, as though she was now clearly
seeing that my duty lay in proceeding with her
in the schooner to Havana, whence, as Captain
Foljambe was constantly saying — and I
"certainly did not like him the better for this
confounded trick of iteration — we would have
met a ship to transport us to Rio without
delay.

All this secret worrying in me over what
might be in her thoughts resulted in cooling my
manner too, though my love for her increased
as my demeanour became inexpressive ; and
sometimes it would happen that we were
together only at meal-times, by which I mean
that I would go and sulkily post myself in some
corner with a book, which I would read upside
down, whilst she paced the deck with the
captain's wife or Mrs. Tweed, or remained below
in the cabin. I was for ever seeking to interpret

her, but never could find the hints I sought.
When with her I would constantly talk of
Alexander and of the plans I had formed : for
instance, we should arrive at Bristol ;ewe should
then proceed to London, where she would take
up her abode at the hotel she occupied before
she left England, whilst I made all necessary-preparations
for a second attempt to carry her
to her sweetheart. But I took notice whilst I
thus talked that she had very little to say to it
all. She'd thank me and tell me I was too
good, and protest that it was not likely she
would put me to the trouble of escorting her
again ; that most probably on her arrival in
London she would write the story of our
adventures to Rio, and v/ait for my cousin to
fetch her — most probably ; indeed, she would
add with a sigh, she had not made up her mind.
There was plenty of time to think the matter
over, and meanwhile I was not to dream that
she would again subject me to the risk of undergoing
perhaps worse adventures than those
which we had happily come safe through.
This and the like she would say, but always
with a sort of air of indifference, as though she

talked to a person whose programme she did
not regard as a very sincere one, and as though
in consequence she could take no interest in it.

There came a day however when feeling grew
too strong for me. Conscience had wrestled
hard with inclination, but to no purpose. Often,
whilst tossing in my bunk at night, whilst seated
alone on the deck by day, I would ask myself if
I had not acted dishonourably in falling in love
with this woman, and whether I should not be
rendering my sin heinous beyond forgiveness
by proposing to her. But it was like putting
some insoluble riddle to my heart. I gave it
up. Had Alexander been my brother instead
of my cousin it would have been all the same.
I was head over ears in love with Aurelia
Grant, and I made up my mind to marry her if
she would have me. And there came a time,
as I have said, when patience gave way, when
passion grew too powerful for restraint, and when
I determined to put the matter boldly to her
and see what she had to say to it.

The ship was then on the equatorial verge
of the Bay of Biscay, so you will gather that I
did not make up my mind in a hurry. Our

VOL. III. u

clipper had made a noble run through the
trades, with fine weather and pleasant breezes
to follow, and now on this day at noon we found
ourselves under all plain sail on the port tack,
bowlines triced out, a light breeze off the bow,
and the vessel sliding quietly through It over
the long undulations of the Atlantic swell, flowing
with pulse-like regularity from the westward.
When the dusk settled down, the half moon
shone In the sky. Her light lay soft and white
upon our high-reaching canvas, and filled the
shadow between the rails with a silver tint,
through which the forms of the seamen moved
in dark outlines. The awning was furled, and
the poop-deck lay almond-white to the stars,
with many quicksilver-like rippling of radiance
In the polished brass-work, and the man at the
helm rising with the lift of the stern against a
faintness like the after-glow on the sea-line
there, his shape sharply wrought upon it, and
the circle and spokes of the wheel keen as
though he and it were an etching in India Ink.
I came on deck after an hour spent alone In
my cabin, and stood a little at the head of the
ladder that led to the poop, trying to persuade

myself that I lingered to admire this fair ocean
night-picture ; but I found my eyes quickly
going from it in search of Miss Grant. I saw
her in a moment standing in the dark shade
flung on the deck by the reflection of the mizzen-mast.
She was talking to Mrs. Foljambe and
Mr. Murphy, the chief mate. I put on the
lightest air I could summon, and approached
the group in an easy saunter.

Pleasant weather this for the close of
October, Mrs. Foljambe," said I ; "it won't be
quite so nice a little higher up."

'' There's no climate after all, Mr. Musgrave,
that beats the English," said Mrs. Foljambe.

Well, madam," said I, '' I might agree with
you if I were a slug or a water-rat."

'you must go to the west of Ireland for a
fine climate," quoth Mr. Murphy.

Too much steam," said Mrs. Foljambe.
I once stayed a week at Bally vaughan, and it
was like looking at natural scenery through the
smoke from a bowl of hot punch."

You should have tired Ballaghaderreen,
ma'am," said Mr. Murphy.

'' Say Ballydehob at once, now," answered

u 2

Mrs. Foljambe ; "and I am sure a hob the poor
creatures who live there must find it — a hob
with a steaming kettle on it."

"Well," said I, "this evening is a fine one,
but it is a bit chilly for all that. What say you
to a stroll, Miss Grant ? "

She assented, and we left Mrs. Foljambe and
Mr. Murphy arguing on the climate of Ireland.

"Will you take my arm?" said I. "This
long heave is gentle, but it doesn't help to
steady one."

She did as I asked. I thought I felt a little
tremor in her fingers ; she was silent and
pensive, looking away from me towards the
ocean ; but this had been her demeanour of
late, and was therefore not new in her.

This is the Bay of Biscay," said I ; " not
many more days now before us."

I shall be glad when the voyage is ended,"
she answered ; " the Foljambes are very kind,
everything is nice here, but I am weary — weary
weary of the sea, Mr. Musgrave."

You had need be ; it has used you very ill,
and something of this weariness of the ocean
you are extending."

Extending ! I don't understand you."

*' Well now, to be plain, Miss Grant, you
have had enough of my company."

You don't think so," she answered quietly ;
'^ why do you say so then ? "

I say so because I think so, and I think so
because the fancy has been forced upon me by
your manner. Since we have been in this ship
you have ceased to be what you were."

'' What was I ? "

Warm, cordial, frank, making our association
to me so sweet an intimacy, that though I was
clamorous to leave the island, I now vow to
Heaven I would be glad to go on suffering a
lifelong imprisonment in it to preserve what I
have lost in you."

*you have lost nothing," she exclaimed,
speaking in a subdued voice, that did not
however conceal her agitation ; ''if you have
noticed any change in me, it is but the reflection
of your own manner."

My manner! It should be warm, not cold ;
it should be bright, not gloomy, if love be the
hot and radiant emotion the poets tell us it is,
Aurelia — "

She fixed her dark eyes upon me as I
pronounced her name, and halted, looking at
me Intently, but for a few seconds only, then
her gaze fell, and she resumed her walk, still
holding my arm.

Aurelia," I said gently, *' you heard what I
have said — you know now that I love you."

I have known It a long while," she answered,
still looking down, but speaking with composure,
though I have little doubt I should have felt her
heart In her finger-tips had I brought them to
my lips.

You say I have no sympathy ; but I am
quicker to see than you — quicker to recognize."

Her meaning was as clear as the sound of a
bell. We were to leeward, forward as far as
the deck extended ; the sheet of the great main
course curved like a dusky wing betwixt us and
the moonlight on the water, and we stood In
this dusk, concealed from the others, obscured
from all eyes In the fore-end, though clearly
visible to each other. It was my turn now to
halt. I let fall her hand from my arm, then
clasped It and the other as well. She stood
passive. I drew her to me till her face was

close to mine, and kissed her forehead. She
released her hands with a manner of tender
agitation, and went to the rail and looked over,
and I heard her draw her breath In a sob.

I stepped to her side and said, " If I have
grieved you, forgive me. The time had come
when I could not help speaking. I have loved
you from the hour I first saw you. It has been
a hard fight. I have endeavoured to do my
duty, will still attempt It if you command me,
but your beauty and sweetness have conquered
my resolution of silence."

She wept silently.

*' See now how I have vexed you," said I.

She shook her head. " No, I am happy," she
answered, in a voice so low that I had to bend
my ear to catch the words. '' I am Indeed
happy in knowing that you love me. It is as
it should be. It Is — It Is — as /le would — as he
might desire it. Poor boy. But — but "

She raised her head, and the next instant her
face was hidden on my shoulder, my arms
around her, and her heart beating against mine.

And thus It was that we managed to round
off in true poetical style our most eventful

experiences as a marooned couple. That this
was a right and proper ending I will not affirm,
but that we could help it I do most vehemently
deny. And, after all, if you will but gravely
consider the matter, you will see it was scarce
possible but that two people thrown together
as Aurelia and I were should fall in love, to the
exclusion of all promptings of loyalty and conscience
on the one hand, and of all impulses of
an earlier passion on the other. Nor was this
all. The character of our intimacy demanded
our union. Indeed, Aurelia did not scruple to
tell me afterwards — I mean when she was my
wife — that even had her love been made to
falter by thoughts of my cousin's claims upon
her, and by the memory of their vows and
betrothal, the recollection of the island must
have sufficed to rally her into accepting me as
destined by fate or old ocean, which is the same
thing, to be her husband. But why enlarge
upon this ? It would have been easy to shift
the helm of this yarn towards the close of it,
and submit myself as having cut a highly
virtuous figure. But then is it highly virtuous
to heave one's emotional obligations overboard

? — to confront a pure and ennobling
passion with a countenance acidulated by some
bolus of conscience that Is, strictly speaking,
neither here nor there, though it works very
uncomfortably in the moral system, without
leavlno- one much the better for it ?

We arrived at Bristol on the 6th of November,
after above four months of much livelier experiences
than I should again care to undergo on
any account whatever, and proceeded to London,
where before the month was out we were
married. The wedding, as will be supposed,
was a very quiet one, so quiet indeed that there
was nobody but ourselves present ; I mean
nobody in any way concerned in it. Privacy
of this kind is a happiness that attends the
nuptials of those only who are without relations ;
that is to say, when the marriage is an honest
one, done in the light of day, and not what one
may call a window-and-ladder match. Aurelia
was as good as alone in the world, and for
the matter of that so was I ; so we drove one
morning to church and returned man and wife,
and I remember saying to my blushing beauty
as we stepped arm-in-arm from the sacred

building, that if all marooning experiments had
ended as ours did, the punishment must long
before have become so fashionable that there
would be no uninhabited islands left ; the most
sterile rock would be occupied by some languishing
couple, and it might come to skippers being
handsomely rewarded for reporting so much
even as the creation of a volcanic spot of earth.
But before I was married I wrote a letter to
my cousin, Alexander Fraser. It was a very
long letter indeed. I gave him the full relation
of our adventures, and do not know that I
spared him the most trifling detail, so anxious
was I to submit the whole picture to him, that
there might be wanting no incident which,
omitted, I might have regretted as helpful to
the general apology of the missive. I told him
that of course I expected he would resent my
conduct at first, that he would consider I had
taken a mean advantage of the trust he confided
in me, but that when he came to think
the matter carefully over, he would understand
that nothing else than what had happened
was possible. I touched very delicately upon
Aurelia's and my enforced intimacy of association

on the island ; delicately, I say, but I indicated
it too, for therein, methought, lay the very
handsomest excuse any man could seek or expect
for what I had done. Whatever occurred
to me to say in self-extenuation, I said ; but
though I took great pains, wrote in a subdued
strain, with plentiful appeals to his sailorly
instincts as a man to judge me kindly, to
believe that I had embarked most honestly,
that for weeks and weeks I had never thought
of the earl but as his sweetheart, that even
after we had quitted the island I was still for
conveying Aurelia to Rio, though I was loving
her passionately then, and abhorred the thought
of parting with her — I say, that though I did
my best in this letter, I felt at every word
which dropped from my pen that it was like
rubbing a cat the wrongs wav, as uncomfortable
to the stroking hand as to the creature thus
dealt with. Perhaps I said too much ; then it
would occur to me that I had not said enough ;
and sometimes I thought it would have been best
to say nothing at all, and leave him to conclude
that the Iron Crown had foundered, and we
with her.

Well, a few months after I had dispatched
this epistle — this great bundle of manuscript I
should call It, for It ran Into many sheets —
during all which time not a syllable reached
me from Rio, I received a letter from Captain
Foljambe, In which he gave me two Items of
news, both of great Interest to me.

The first concerned the Iron Crown. It
seems that this vessel had been found derelict
at sea, about a hundred leagues westward of the
island of Cuba. She was fallen In with by a
French barque, whose people on boarding her
discovered a couple of auger-holes In her bows,
one of which had been plugged, whilst the
leakage of the other had been, strangely enough,
stopped by a fish that lay jammed in the orifice,
just leaving room enough for a small draining of
brine, scarce as much as would have raised a
foot of water in her hold In a fortnight. On
entering the cabin they found the ceiling,
stanchions, and a portion of the forward bulkheads
scorched, with other sicrns of a fire havlno^
been kindled, manifestly for the purpose of
destroying her. There were traces of blood
upon her quarter-deck and waist, whether

human or not could not be told. Aloft she
was a complete wreck ; most of her sails in rags,
her main-topmast gone, her fore-topgallant-mast
hanging by its gear, and about ten feet of her
starboard bulwarks smashed level to the covering
board. Her name was plain upon the stern,
and she was unquestionably the brig in which
we had sailed. She had apparently encountered
a violent storm, but whether before or after her
abandonment was not to be guessed. There
was nothing to be done with her, and as she
would prove a formidable obstruction to drive
into in the dark, the Frenchmen knocked
the plug out, cleared away the fish, and left her
to drown. Nothing was known of her crew,
and I may as well say here, that though I
continued long afterwards to make inquiries,
I never got to hear of them, and therefore
remain to this hour ignorant of the manner in
which Breakwater had met his end — whether
he was murdered, or perished by his own act.

Foljambe's second item of news was to this
effect. During his outward run to Havana,
when somewhat to the southward of the Great
Bahama Bank, he sighted a little schooner

which, on his nearing her, proved to be the
Orphan. Ducrow, standing at the rail, recognized
the Bristol Trader, and yelled in his
demonstrative fashion to be permitted to step
on board, that he might make inquiries after
myself and the lady. There was very little wind
at the time, and Foljambe told him he was at
liberty, to come, but that he was not going to
back his topsail-yard to oblige him. On this
the schooner's boat was thrown over the side,
Ducrow and two blacks jumped Into her, and
in hot haste and shouting loudly swept the
little leaking fabric to the main-chains of the
ship, over which Ducrow floundered, smirking,
flourishing his tasselled cap, and bowing as of
old with many contortions. The main purport
of his visit was, that I might be told through
Captain Foljambe that he had found out the
island on which we had been marooned, and
had carried off not only our luggage, but the
Spanish negro whom we had left there. The
fellow, he said, was now aboard the schooner,
and he pointed to a black who stood surveying
the ship from the schooner's forecastle. He
told Captain Foljambe that he did not know

there was a man on the island — and indeed I
had said nothing about the poor runaway, as
I supposed that he desired to He in hiding
for the rest of his Hfe in that ocean retreat.
Ducrow and one of his carries — Moses — went
ashore, and after a short search found the
open hatch in the sand. They peered in — the
evening was then gathering — and Ducrow,
being afraid to go first, told the negro to lead
the way, giving him a kick to help him to a
proper posture of resolution, loses plumped
down, and Ducrow was in the act of following
him, when he heard the negro yelling, " De
debbil, de debbil I — here's de debbil himself, —
here's de debbil himself ! — oh, Lord ! " followed
by sounds of wrestling and hard breathing,
whereupon Ducrow instantly took to his heels,
but before he could reach his boat he was
tripped up by some one who pursued him, the
man in chase falling over him heavily. This
fellow proved to be the Spanish negro. Ducrow,
jumping up, concluded that his end was arrived,
and whipped out with a long knife, intending,
as he told Captain Foljambe, to sell his life at
the highest price he could get for it. Then

followed a parley. The negro could only speak
Spanish. Luckily for Ducrow, he knew a few
words in that tongue, enough with gesticulations
to let the negro understand that he meant him
no harm. Ebenezer, the mate of the schooner,
was in the boat. This black had been a Cuban
slave, and was able to converse with the other,
who was speedily tranquillized by his pacific
assurances. When he was told that he would
be a free man under the British flag, and that
whilst that bunting continued to fly over his
head he need not fear of being recaptured, he
told Ducrow that he would be willing to enter
as a sailor with him. In short, he had had
enough of the island, though I believe he had
not lived alone upon it above a fortnight. He
said it was haunted. One evening he saw the
ghost of a black man come out of the sea and
pass into the forest and vanish, and he declared
it was the spectre of the dead negro who had
been with him in the boat when they drifted to
the island. It ended, Ducrow told Captain
Foljambe, in their clearing the underground
rooms, not only of our luggage, but of everything
else in it — the chairs, table, pots, and

pans, muskets, and so forth. This was good
booty to Ducrow, who made a division of it
amongst the men, the Spanish negro being
very well satisfied with his share. Ducrow
sent many flattering messages to Aurelia and
myself, and particularly begged the captain to
compliment me in his name on my taste in
shirts, and to inform me that he had never
worn anything choicer in the way of linen. I
confess we both begrudged the rogues the
apparel they had come by. I know that
Aurelia's and my outfit had cost me a round
sum of money, and that she had left enough
dresses and other clothing behind her to have
furnished her with a trousseau.

It was eighteen months before I heard from
Rio, by which time I had arrived at. the conclusion
that either my cousin Alexander was
dead, or that he hated me too violently to put
pen to paper. Aurelia believed that death was
the reason of his silence. He had died, she
believed, of grief, and I was heartily glad, for
my own sake as much as for my wife's, when
one morning I received a letter from him ; for

VOL. III. . ' X

I may as well say her notion that he had died
of a broken heart was the cause of many
fits of melancholy In her, which rendered mea
little peevish with jealousy ; so that had
Alexander not written, there might by and
by have come some little unhappiness Into my
married life.

He began by saying that he had made up
his mind not to write to me at all. He had
hated me consumedly for months after reading
my letter, and would have been pleased to kill
me, only that the voyage home was too tedious
and expensive an undertaking for so twopenny
an Issue. News of the Iron Crown having
been found abandoned and in a wrecked condition
had reached him before he got my letter,
and he concluded that Aurelia and I were at
the bottom of the sea. He had written home
to the owners of the brig for Information, but
his inquiries remained unanswered. His getting
my letter, he said, was like receiving a missive
from the other world, and he swore that before
he was one-third through It he heartily wished
that it had come from the other world, and

from the deepest and most fiery part of it too,
for to that place did his temper consign me at
every full-stop he came to. Of Aurelia he
desired to say nothing. Women were sent into
the world to make fools of men, and not even
old age hindered the most of them from struggling
on in fulfilment of this mission. But a
woman could sometimes make as great a fool of
a man by marrying him as by jilting him. For
many months he had been wondering which of
us two — meaning himself and me — was the
more deserving of compassion, but now he was
no longer in doubt, and he could only hope I
was happy, he was sure. Aurelia was a beautiful
woman, and he had been very much in love
with her ; but after all beauty is but skin deep.
And then, again, people's feelings change wonderfully.
Time converts the loveliest face into
a mask, and often into a very ugly one ; and
how swift is the flight of time ! We clasp a
beautiful creature to our heart, and when she
lifts her face from our bosom, lo ! we find the
angel of Time has been with her, and 'tis all
pucker and rheum, crows-feet, sausage-curls,

and the deuce knows what besides ! As to the
durability of sentiment — Stop ! he'd give me a
yarn. He was at a funeral last year. A young
wife had died, and the husband was inconsolable.
His grief at the grave-side was terrible
to witness. His friends had to grasp him by
the arms and coat-tails to hinder him from precipitating
himself into the yawning chasm when
the coffin was lowered into it. He wept, he
howled, he tore his hair, he shook his fists
at the sky, and asked with streaming eyes
what he had done to deserve this dreadful
affliction. This emotion was sincere down to
the very heels of it. " Four months later,"
added my cousin, " I received an invitation
to his wedding \ "

And now," continued the letter, 'since I,
have made up my mind to write, I may as well
give you and Mrs. Musgrave all the news.
Will you ask your wife if she remembers Isabella
Radcliffe ? No doubt she does. Mr. Radcliffe
and Mr. Grant were, I believe, friends, but a
coolness sprang up between them some time
before the latter left Rio. Though Isabella has

not the good /or hie to have Spanish blood in
her, being indeed purely English, and eminently
gifted with her countrywoman's noblest quality —
the grand characteristic of the entirely British
lass — I mean loyalty, Dick, she is exceedingly
beautiful, nevertheless. Her eyes are violet,
richly fringed, her hair auburn, rarest of tints ;
there is nothing majestic and stately about her ;
she is merely lovable, plump, fragrant, sweet to
see and hearken to, with so exquisite a contralto
voice that everybody calls it a fortune to her.
Her papa is dead, and his will appoints that the
sum of eight thousand pounds is to be settled
upon her when she marries, providing that she
does so with her mother's consent, presuming
of course the mother to be living. The mother
is living, and / have her consent, and perhaps
some of these days I may have the pleasure of
introducing the prettiest woman that was ever
seen in South America to Mr. and Mrs. ]\Ius-
grave. Happily she resides at Rio, so I shall
not be obliged to ask any relative to bring her
to me. Be good enough, when you next write,
to let me know what I owe you for Mrs.

Musgrave's outfit, and for the hire of the cabins
of the ship you embarked in. Convey my kind
regards to your wife, and believe me, my dear
Dick

Yours very truly,

"Alex. Fraser."
Poor Alec !

Yet this letter magically cleared our home
atmosphere. There were no more melancholy
references to my cousin's broken heart. I have
drunk many a bottle with Alec since, and he is
godfather to my second boy, and Aurelian is
godmother to his third girl.

So passes the procession of life across the
stage of the world. I had advanced but a few
steps, so to speak, on the boards when this experience
I have written about befell me. My
wife and I were young, our hearts had a strong
beat, the sun was yet in the eastern heavens,
his light very glorious, and the land fair and
gay with flowers ; and now I am hobbling off
within a few paces of the dark wing whose
shadow, when the actor has entered it, shrouds

him for ever from the gaze of the company that
sit watching the show. But the western
radiance still lingers, the dusk has not yet
fallen, and my wife and I, though our clasped
hands tremble with the infirmities of age, still
walk in sunshine, finding cheerfulness in the
lingering lustre, though we know it to be
waning fast.

THE END.

RICHARD CLAY AND SONS, LIMITED, LONDON AND BUNGAY.
