The person charging this material is responsible for
its return to the library from which it was withdrawn
on or before the Latest Date stamped below.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons for disciplinary
action and may result in dismissal from the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

JUN05199C

L161— O-1096

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/deathshipstrange01russ

AT ALL THE LlDRAllIES

THE YOUNGEST MISS GE,EEN. By F. Robinson,

author of ' Grandmother's Money,' &c. 3 vols.

A DAUGHTER OF DIVES. By Leith Derwent,

author of 'Circles Lovers,' 'King Lazarus,' &c. 3 vols.

THE DUCHESS. By the Author of 'Molly Sawn,'

'Phyllis,' 'Airy Fairy Lilian,' &c. vol.

A CREATURE OF CIRCUMSTANCES. By Harry

Lander. 3 vols.

A MODERN DELILAH. By Vere Clavering. 3 vols.

HURST & Blackett, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

A STRANGE STORY ;

AN ACCOUNT OF A Cruise IN "THE FLYING DUTCHMAN, COLLECTED

FROM THE PAPERS OF THE LATE MR. Geoffrey Fenton, OF POPLAR,

MASTER MARINER.

BY

W. CLARK RUSSELL,

AUTH-'K OF
HE WRECK OF THE GROSVENOR," " THE GOLDEN HOPE," " A SEA QUEEN,
ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I

LONDON
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET


All Kis[hts Reserved

TILLOTSON AND SON, IMAWDSI.EY STKKKT

BOI/rON

\h

CONTENTS

THE FIRST VOLUME

CHAPTER

K I I.— I SAIL AS SECOND MATE L\ THE SARACEN

k. IL— WE MEET AND SPEAK THE LOVELY NANCY, SNOW

>i Il — THE CAPTAIN AND I TALK OF THE DEATH SHIP

\A IV. —WE Al

.RE CHASED AND NEARLY CAPTURED,

^^

V. — WE ARRIVE AT TABLE BAY AND PROCEED THENCE
ON OUR VOYAGE

"^ VI-the CAPTAIN SPEAKS AGAIN OF THE DEATH SHIP

VII. —I CONVERSE WITH THE SHIP'S CARPENTER ABOUT
i^ THE DEATH SHIP

^ VIII. -

A TRAGICAL DEATH .
IX.- MR. HALL HARANGUES THE CREW.

^•^ X. - WE DRAW CLOSE TO A STRANGE AND LUMINOUS
SHIP









CHAPTER PAGE

XI. — A CRUEL DISASTER BEFALLS ME 122

XII.— I AM RESCUED BY THE DEATH SHIT . . . 136

XIII. — ^VV Syn AL VERDOMD I47

XIV.— MY FIRST NIGHT IN THE DEATH SHIT . , . 168

XV.— I INSPECT THE FLYING DUTCHMAN . . .177

XVI. — VANDERDECKEN SHOWS ME HIS PRESENT FOR

LITTLE Margarita I94

XVII. -I TALK WITH MISS IMOGENE DUDLEY ABOUT THE

DEATH SHIP 211

XVIII.— THE DEATH SHIP MUST BE SLOW AT PLYING . 245

XIX. - I WITNESS THE CAPTAIN's ENTRANCEMENT . . 259

XX. — I HOLD A CONVERSATION WITH THE CREW . . 270

CHAPTER I.

I SAIL AS SECOND MATE IN THE SARACEN.

I WILL pass by all the explanations concerning
the reasons of my going to sea, as I do
not desire to forfeit your kind patience by
letting this story stand. Enough If I say
that after I had been fairly well grounded In
English, arithmetic and the like, which plain
education I have never wearied of Improving
by reading everything good that came In my
way, I was bound apprentice to a respectable
man named Joshua Cox, of Whitby, and

VOL. I. B

served my time in his vessel, the Laughing
Susan — a brave, nimble brigantine.

We traded to Riga, Stockholm, and Baltic
ports, and often to Rotterdam, where, having
a quick ear, which has sometimes served me
for playing upon the fiddle for my mates to
dance or sing to, I picked up enough of
Dutch to enable me to hold my own in conversing
with a Hollander, or Hans Butter-box,
as those people used to be called; that is
to say, I had sufficient words at command to
qualify me to follow what was said and to
answer so as to be intelligible; the easier,
since, uncouth as that language is, there is so
much of it resembling ours in sound that
many words in it might easily pass for portions
of our tongue grossly and ludicrously
articulated. Why I mention this will hereafter
appear.

When my apprenticeship term had expired,
I made two voyages as second mate,
and then obtained an appointment to that

post in a ship named the Saracen, for a

voyage to the East Indies. This was anno

1796. I was then two-and-twenty years of

age, a tall, well-built young fellow, with

tawny hair, of the mariner's complexion

from the high suns I had sailed under and

the hardening gales I had stared into, with

dark blue eyes filled with the light of an

easy and naturally merry heart, white teeth,

very regular, and a glad expression as

though, forsooth, I found something gay

and to like in all that I looked at. Indeed it,

was a saying with my mother that ''Geff," —

meaning Geoffrey — that "Gaff's appearance

was as though a very little joke would set

the full measure of his spirits overflowing."

But now, it is as an old poet finely wrote:

My golden locks time hath to silver turn'd,

(O time, too swift, and swiftness never ceasing !)

My youth, 'gainst age, and age at youth have spurn'd,

But spurn'd in vain !

And here it is but right to myself that I

should say, though as a sailor I am but an

obscure person, yet as a man I may claim
some pride and lustre of descent, an ancestor
being no less a worthy than one of
the boldest of Queen Elizabeth's sea-captains
and generals — Edward Fenton, I mean, who
was himself of a sound and ancient Nottingham
stock ; illustrious for his behaviour
against the Spaniards in 1588, and for his explorations
of the hidden passage of the North
Sea, mentioned with other notable matters in
the Latin inscription upon his monument by
Richard, Earl of Cork, who married his
niece.

But enough of such parish talk.
The master of the Saracen was one Jacob
Skevington, and the mate's name Christopher
Hall. We sailed from Gravesend — for with
Whitby I was now done — in the month of
April, 1796. We were told to look to ourselves
when we should arrive in the neighbourhood
of the Cape of Good Hope, for it
was rumoured that the Dutch, with the help

of the French, were Hkely to send a squadron
to recover Cape Town, that had fallen into
the hands of the British in the previous
September. However, at the time of our
lifting our anchor off Gravesend, the Cape
Settlement lay on the other side of the globe;
whatever danger there might be there, was
too remote to cast the least faint shadow upon
us ; besides, the sailor was so used to the
perils of the enemy and the chase, that nothing
could put an element of uneasiness into his
plain, shipboard life, short of the assurance
of his own or his captain's eyes that the sail
that had hauled his wind and was fast growing
upon the sea-line, was undeniably an
enemy's ship, heavily armed, and big enough
to cannonade him into staves.

So with resolved spirits, which many of us
had cheered and heartened by a few farewell
drams — for of all parts of the sea-faring life
the saying good-bye to those we love, and
whom the God of Heaven alone knows

whether we shall ever clasp to our breasts
again, Is the hardest — we plied the capstan
with a will, raising the anchor to a chorus
that fetched an echo from the river's banks
up and down the Reach ; and then sheeting
home our topsails, dragging upon the halliards
with piercing, far-sounding songs, we
gathered the weight of the pleasant sunny
wind Into those spacious hollows, and In a
few minutes had started upon our long
journey.

Yet, though my parting with my friends
had not been of a nature to affect my spirits,
and though I was accounted to be, and Indeed
was, a merry, careless fellow, I was sensible of
an unaccountable depression as, amidst the
duties which occupied me, I would cast
glances at the houses of Gravesend and the
shore sliding by, and hear. In momentary
hushes, tremulous tinkling sounds raised by
the water wrinkling, current-like under our
round and pushing bows.

WE MEET AND SPEAK THE LOVELY Nancy,
SNOW.

For days and days after we had cleared the
Channel and entered upon those deep waters,
which, off soundings sway In brilliant blue
billows, sometimes paling Into faint azure
or weltering In dyes as purely dark as the
violet, according as the mood of the sky Is,
nothing whatever of consequence befell. We
were forty of a company. Captain Skeleton
was a stout but sedate sailor, who had used
the sea for many years, and had confronted
so many perils there was scare an ocean-danger
you could name about which he could
not talk from personal experience. He was,
likewise, a man of education and Intelligence,

with a manner about him at times not very
intelligible, though his temper was always
excellent and his skill as a seaman equal
to every call made upon it. We carried
six twelve-pounders and four brass swivels
and a plentiful store of small-arms and ammunition.
Our ship was five years old, a
good sailer, handsomely found in all respects
of sails and tackling, so that any prospect
we might contemplate of falling in with
privateers and such gentry troubled us little ;
since with a brave ship and nimble heels,
high hot hearts, English cannon and jolly
British beef for the working of them, the
mariner need never doubt that the Lord will
own him wherever he may go and whatever
he may do.

We crossed the Equator in longitude thirty
degrees west, then braced up to the Trade
Wind that heeled us with a brisk gale in five
degrees south latitude, and so skirted the
sea in that great african bight 'twixt Cape

Palmas and the Cape of Good Hope,
formerly called, and very properly, I think,
the Ethiopia Ocean ; for, though to be sure
it is all Atlantic Ocean, yet, methinks, it is
as fully entitled to a distinctive appellation
as is the Bay of Biscay, that is equally one
sea with that which rolls into it.

One morning in July, we being then somewhat
south of the latitude of the island of
St. Helena, a seaman who was on the 
hailed the deck, and cried out that
there was a sail right ahead. It was an
inexpressibly bright morning ; the sun had
been risen two hours, and he stood — a white
flame of the blinding and burning brilliance
he seems to catch up from the dazzling sands
of Africa as he soars over them — in a sky
of the most dainty sapphire fairness ; not a
cloud — no, not so bio as a fading wreath of
tobacco smoke anywhere visible, so that the
ends of the sea went round with the clearness
of the circle of a o^lass table, only that a small

wind, very sweet and pleasant to every
sense, blowing a little off our starboard bow,
fluttered the ocean into a sort of hovering
look, and its trembling caused the wake of
the sun to resemble the leaping and frolicking
of shoals of wet and sparkling mackerel.
We waited with much expectation and
some anxiety for the stranger to approach
near enough to enable us to father her
character, or even her nationality ; for the
experienced eye will always observe a something
in the ships of the Dutch and French
nations to distinguish the flags they belong
to. It was soon evident that she was standing
directly for us, shown by the speed with
which her sails rose ; but when her hull was
fairly exposed, Captain Skevington, after a
careful examination of her, declared her to bea
vessel of about one hundred tons, probably
a snow — her mainmast being: in one with her
foremast — and so we stood on, leaving it too



her to be wary if she chose.

Whether she had at once made sure of us
as an honest trader, I cannot say ; she never
budged her helm by so much as the turn of a
spoke, but came smoothly along, a very
pretty shining object, rolling on the soft, long-drawn
swell in such a way as to dart shadows
across the moonlit gleaming of her canvas
with the breathing of their full bosoms — so
that the sight reminded me of the planet
Venus as I once beheld her after she had
passed from the tincture of the ruby into the
quick light of the diamond, lightly troubled
by the swift passage of a kind of gossamer
scud, as though the winds on high sought
to clothe her naked beauty with a delicate
raiment of their own wearing, from which she
was forever escaping into the liquid indigo
she loves to float in.

After a little the English ensign was seen
to flutter at her fore-topgallant-masthead. To
this signal we instantly replied by hoisting
our colour; and shortly after midday, arriving

abreast of each other, we backed our topsail-yard,
she doing the Hke, and so we lay
steady upon the calm sea, and so close, that
we could see the faces of her people over the
rail, and hear the sound, though not the
words, of the voice of the master Qrivinof his
orders.

It was Captain Skevington's intention to
board her, as he suspected she was from the
Indies, and capable therefore of giving us
some hints concerning the Dutch, into whose
waters, in a manner of speaking, we were
now entering ; accordingly the jolly boat was
lowered and pulled away for the stranger,
that proved to be the snow, Lovely Nancy,
of Plymouth — name of cruel omen as I shall
always deem it, though I must ever love the
name of Nancy as being that of a fair-haired
sister who died in her fifteenth year.

As many of my readers may not be acquainted
with sea terms, it may be fit to say
here, that a snow is nothing more than a

brig, with the trifling addition of a thin mast
abaft her mainmast, upon which her trysail
or boom mainsail sets. I guess these vessels
will always bear this name until their trysail-masts
go out of fashion.
But to return.

I know not why I should have stood looking
very longingly at that Plymouth ship
whilst our captain was on board her ; for
though to be sure we had now been at sea
since April, whilst she was homeward bound,
yet I was well satisfied with the Saracen and
all on board. I was glad to be getting a
living and earning In wages money enough
to put away ; my dream being to save so
much as would procure me an Interest In a
ship, for out of such slender beginnings have
sprung many renowned merchant princes in
this country. But so it was. My heart
yearned for that snow as though I had a
sweetheart on board. Even Mr. Hall, the
mate, a plain, literal, practical seaman, with

as much sentiment in him as you may find in
the first Dutchman you meet in the Amsterdam
fish-market, even he noticed my wistful
eyes, and clapping me on the back, cries
out —

*' Why, Fenton, my lad, I believe you'd be
glad to go home m that little wagon yonder
if the captain would let ye."

"I believe I would, sir," I replied; "and
yet if I could, I don't know that I would,
either."

He laughed and turned away, ridiculing
what he reckoned a piece of lady-like sentiment
; and that it was no more, I daresay I
was as sure as he, though I wished the
depression at the devil, for it caused me to
feel, whilst it was on me, as though a considerable
slice of my manhood had slipped
away overboard.

It is one of the few pleasures time permits
to old men to recall the sweet, or gay, or fair
pictures which charmed them when young.

And which of all our faculties is more wonderful
as a piece of mechanism, and more Divine
in its life-giving properties, than Memory,
which enables the Spirit to quicken dust that
has lain for many years in the womb of time ;
to attire it and to return to it its passions,
emotions, and all other qualities; to put back
the cycles the sun has run and oblige him to
shine on forms which were then infants, but
are now grass-hidden ridges ; on houses then
stately but now long since swept away ; on
meadows and orchards then bright with
daisies, ruddy with fruit, but now covered
with houses and busy streets whose sidewalks
echo to the tread of generations more
dream-like in that past to which the aged
eye turns than ever can be the dead who
then lived.

'Tis thus when I think of that Plymouth
snow ; for leaning back in mv chair and

't>

closing these eves, that morning: shines all
around me ; the tremulous sea of blue, of a

satin sheen in its tiny rippling, shot with
milder tints where the currents run as though
they were the thin fingers of the wind toying
with the bosom of the deep, bends to the
distant sky upon whose lowermost reaches it
flings the same opal lustre it gathers at its
horizon ; the air blows fitfully, like the warm
breathing from a woman's sweet lips, and
sometimes stills our sails and sometimes
suffers them to flutter in sounds soothing as
the murmurs of a midsummer night breeze
amid the high branches of a sleeping oak.
The snow had black sides but was painted
white from her water-line ; and though there
was no lack of draining weeds and clustered
shells upon her bilge and run, yet, with every
slow roll from us, the wet whiteness, taking
the meridian effulgence, broke out in a glory
as of virgin silver, enriched by the marine
adhesions, into the very likeness of a resplendent
mosaic of precious metal and green
glass.

Such magic has the sea to beautify whatever
it is permitted to possess long enough
for its powers of enrichment to work their
way !

Her canvas flashed out of shadow into
brightness with every lift of the swell ; the
ripples ran a dissolving tracery along her
bends, as dainty to see as the choicest lace ;
the weather-clouded faces of her men looked
at us over the stout bulwark-rail that was
broken by a few open ports through which
you spied the mouths of little cannon ; and it
was laughable to mark her figurehead, that
represented an admiral in a cocked hat — a
cheap dockyard purchase, no doubt, for the
effigy was ridiculously out of character and
foolishly too big for the vessel — bowing to
the blue surface that flowed in lines of
azure light to the cutwater, as though there
were some mermaid there to whom he would
be glad to " make a leg," as the old saying
was.

VOL. L C

THE CAPTAIN AND I TALK OF THE
DEATH SHIP.

After three-quarters-of-an-hour, or thereabouts,
Captain Skevlngton returned. We
then trimmed to our course again, and, erelong,
the Plymouth snow was astern of us,
rolling her spread of canvas in a saluting
way that was like a flourish of farewell.

Whilst the jolly boat was being hoisted,
the captain stood gazing at the snow with a
very thoughtful face, and then burying his
hands in his pockets, he took several turns
up and down the deck with his head bowed,
and his whole manner not a little grave. He
presently went to the mate, and talked with
him, but it looked as though Mr. Hall found

little to raise concern In what the captain
said, as he often smiled, and once or twice
broke Into a laugh that seemed to provoke a
kind of remonstrance from the master, who
yet acted as though he were but half In
earnest too ; but they stood too far away
for me to catch a syllable of their talk.

It was my watch below at eight o'clock
that evening. I was sitting alone In the
cabin, sipping a glass of rum and water,
ready to go to bed when I had swallowed
the dose. There was but one lamp, hanging
from a midship beam, and the cabin was
somewhat darksome. The general gloom
was deepened by the bulkhead being of a
sombre, walnut colour, without any relief —
such as probably would have been furnished
had we carried passengers — from table-glass
or silver, or such furniture. I mention these
matters because they gave their complexion
to the talk I am now to repeat.

Presently, down Into this Interior through

the companion hatch comes Captain Kensington.
I drained my glass and rose to
withdraw.

'stop a minute, Fenton," says he ; "what
have you been drinking there ?"

I told him.

"Another drop can't hurt you," said he;
"you have four hours to sleep it off in."
With which he called to the boy to bring him
a bottle of brandy from his cabin. He bid
me help myself whilst he lighted a pipe of
tobacco, and then said : " The master of the
snow we met to-day warns us to keep a
bright look-out for the Dutch. He told me
that yesterday he spoke an American ship
that was short of flour, and learnt from the
Yankee — though how Jonathan got the news
I don't know — that there's a Dutch squadron
making for the Cape, in charge of Admiral
Lucas, and that among the ships is the Dordrecht
of sixty-six guns and two. forty-gun
frigates."

*' But should we fall in with them will they
meddle with us, do you think, sir?" said I.

Beyond question," he answered.

"Then," said I, "there is nothing for it
but to keep a sharp look-out. We have
heels, anyway."

He smoked his pipe with a serious face,
as though not heeding me ; then looking at
me steadfastly, he exclaimed, "Fenton, you've
been a bit of a reader in your time, I believe.
Did your appetite that way ever bring you to
dip into magic, necromancy, the Black Art,
and the like of such stuff ?"

He asked me this with a certain strangeness
of expression in his eyes, and I thought
it proper to fall into his humour. So I replied
that in the course of my reading I
might have come across hints of such things,
but that I had given them too little attention
to qualify me to reason about them or to
form an opinion.

I recollect when I was a lad," said he,

passing my answer by, so to speak, '' hearing
an old lady that was related to my mother,
tell of a trick that was formerly practised and
credited, too ; a person stood at a grave and
invoked the dead, who made answer."

I smiled, thinking that only an old woman
would talk thus.

Stop !" cried he, but without temper.
** She said it was common for a necromancer
to invoke and obtain replies; but that though
answers were returned, they were not spoken
by the dead, but by the Devil. The proof
being that death is a separation of the soul
from the body, that the immortal soul cannot
inhabit the corpse that is mere dust, that
therefore the dead cannot speak, themselves,
but that the voices which seem to proceed
from them are uttered by the Evil One."

'why the Evil One .^" said I.

'* Because he delights in whatever is out of
nature, and in doing violence to the harmonious
fabric of the universe."

That sounds like a good argument, sir,"
said I, still smiling.

'' But," continued he, " suppose the case
of men now living, though by the laws of
Nature they should have died long since.
Would you say that they exist as a corpse
does when invoked — that is, by the possession
and voice of the Devil, or that they
are informed by the same souls which were
in them when they uttered their first cry in
this life."

*' Why, sir," I answered, "seeing that the
soul is immortal, there is no reason why it
should not go on inhabiting the clay it
belongs to, so long as that clay continues
to possess the physical power to be moved
and controlled by it."

'' That's a shrewd view," said he, seemingly
well-pleased. " But see here, my lad ! our
bodies are built to last three score and ten
years. Some linger to an hundred ; but so
few beyond, that every month of continued

behoof renders them more and more a sort of
prodigies. As the end of a long Hfe approaches
— say a Hfe of ninety years — there
is such decay, such dry-rot, that the whole
frame is but one remove from ashes. Now,
suppose there should be men living who are
known to be at least a hundred and fifty
years old — nay, add an average of forty to
each man and call them one hundred and
ninety years old — but who yet exhibit no
signs of mortality ; would not you say that
the bounds of Nature having been long since
passed, their bodies are virtually corpses,
imitating life by a semblance of soul that
is properly the voice and possession of the
Devil r

How about jNIethusaleh, and others of
those ancient times ?"

I'm talking of to-day," he answered.
'' 'Tis like turning up the soil to work back
into ancient history ; you come across things
which there's no making anything of"

But what man is there now Hving who
has reached to a hundred-and-ninety ?" cried
I, still struck by his look, yet, in spite of that,
wondering at his gravity, for there was a
determination in his manner of reasoning
that made me see he was In earnest.

'' Well," said he, smoking very slowly,
"the master of that snow, one Samuel
Bullock, of Rotherhlthe, whom I recollect
as mate of a privateer some time since, told
me that when he was off the Agulhas Bank,
he made out a sail upon his starboard bow,
braced up, and standing west-sou-west.
There was something so unusual and surprising
about her rig that the probability of
her being an enemy went clean out of his
mind, and he held on, influenced by the sort
of curiosity a man might feel who follows a
sheeted figure at night, not liking the job,
yet constrained to it by sheer force of unnatural
relish. 'Twas the first dogwatch ;
the sun drawing down ; but daylight was

yet abroad, when the stranger was within
hall upon their starboard quarter, keeping
a close luff, yet points off, on account of the
antique fit of her canvas. Bullock, as he
talked, fell a-trembling, though no stouter-hearted
man sails the ocean, and I could seethe
memory of the thing working in him like
a bloody conscience. He cried out, ' May
the bountiful God grant that my ship reaches
home in safety !' I said, ' What vessel was
she, think you?' 'Why, captain,' says he,
*what but the vessel which 'tis God's will
should continue sailing about these seas ?' I
started to hear this, and asked if he saw
any of the crew. He replied that only two
men were to be seen — one steering at a
long tiller on the poop deck, and the other
pacing near him on the weather side. ' I
seized the glass,' said he, ' and knelt down,
that those I viewed should not observe me,
and plainly catched the face of him who
walked.' "

'' How did Bullock describe him, sir ?"
said I.

"He said he wore a great beard and was
very tall, and that he was like a man that
had died and that when dug up preserved
his death-bed aspect ; he was like such a
corpse artificially animated, and most terrible
to behold from his suggestions of .
I pressed him to tell me more, but he
is a person scanty of words for the want
of learning. However, his fears were the
clearest relation he could give me of what
he had seen."

"It was the Phantom Ship he saw, you
think, sir?" said I.

I am sure. He bid me dread the sight
of it more than the combined navies of the
French and the Dutch. The apparition was
encountered in latitude twenty miles south
of thirty-six degrees. 'Tis a spectre to be
shunned, Fenton, though it cost us every
rag of sail we own to keep clear."

Then what you would say, captain,"
said I, "is, that the people who work that
ship have ceased to be living men by reason
of their great age, which exceeds by many
years our bodies' capacity of wear and tear ;
and that they are actually corpses influenced
by the Devil — who is warranted by the same
Divine permission wee find recorded in the
Book of Job, to pursue frightful and unholy
ends ?"

It is the only rational view," he answered.
'' If the Phantom Ship be still afloat, and
navigated by a crew, they cannot be menin
the sense that this ship's company are
men."

'well, sir," said I, cheerfully, "I reckon
It will be all one whether they be fiends,
or flesh and blood miraculously wrought to
last unto the world's end, for it is a million
to nothing that we don't meet her. The
Southern Ocean is a mighty sea, a ship is
but a little speck, and once we get the Madagascar

coast on our bow we shall be out of the
Death Ship's preserves."

However, to my surprise, I found that he
maintained a very earnest posture of mind In
this matter. To begin with, he did not In
the least question the existence of the Dutch
craft ; he had never beheld her, but he knew
those who had, and related tales of dismal
Issues of such encounters. The notion that
the crew were corpses, animated Into a mocking
similitude of life, was strongly infixed In
his mind ; and he obliged me to tell him all
that I could remember of magical, ghostly,
supernatural circumstances I had read about
or heard of, until I noticed It was half-an-hour
after nine, and that, at this rate, my watch on
deck would come round before I had had a
wink of sleep.

However, though I went to my cabin, It
was not to rest. I lay for nearly two hours
wide awake. No doubt the depression I had
marked in myself had exactly fitted my mind

for such fancies as the captain had talked
about. It was Indeed Impossible that I
should soberly accept his extraordinary view
touching the endearment of the crew of the
Death Ship. Moreover, I hope I am too
good a Christian to believe In that Satyr
which was the coinage of crazy, fanatical heads
In the Dark Ages, that cheaply-Imagined
Foul Fiend created to terrify the weak-minded
with a vision of split-hoofs, legs like
•a beast's, a barbed tail, flaming eyes, and
nostrils discharging the sickening fumes of
sulphur.

But concerning the Phantom Ship herself —
the Flying Dutchman as she has been styled
'tis a spectre that has too often crossed the
path of the mariner to admit of Its existence
being questioned. If there be spirits on land,
why not at sea, too ? There are scores who
believe In apparitions, not on the evidence of
their own eyes — they may never have beheld
such a sight — but on the testimony of witnesses

sound In their religion and of unassailable
integrity ; and why should we not accept
the assurance of plain, honest sailors, that
there may be occasionally encountered off the
Agulhas Bank, and upon the southern and
eastern coast of the African extremity, a wild
and ancient fabric, rigged after a fashion long
fallen into disuse, and manned by a crew
figured as presenting something of the aspect
of death in their unholy and monstrous
vitality ?

I turned this matter freely over in my
mind as I lav in mv little cabin, mv thoughts
finding a melancholy musical setting in the
melodious sobbing of water washing past
under the open port, and snatching distressful
impulses from the gloom about me, that was
rendered cloud-like by the moon who was
climbing above our masthead, and clothing
the vast placid scene outside with the beauty
of her icv lio-ht ; and then at seven bells
fell asleep, but was called half an-hour

later, at midnight, to relieve Mr. Hall,

whose four hours' spell below had come
round.

WE ARE CHASED AND NEARLY CAPTURED.

We talked occasionally of the Phantom Ship
after this for a few days, the captain on one
occasion, to my surprise, producing an old
volume on magic and sorcery which it seems
he had, along with an odd collection of books,
in his cabin, and arguing and reasoning out
of it. But he never spoke of this thing in
the presence of the mate who, to be sure, was
a simple, downright man, without the least
imaginable flavour of imagination to render
sapid the lean austerity of his thoughts, and
who, therefore, as you may suppose, as little
credited the stories told of the Dutchman's
ship as the Hebrew Jew believes in our Lord
Hence, as there were but the captain and

VOL. L D

me to keep this shuttlecock of a fancy flying,
it fluttered before long to the ground ;
perhaps the quicker, because on the Sunday
following our speaking with the Plymouth
snow, there happened a piece of work, sharp
and real enough to drive all ideas of visions
and phantasms out of our heads.

It was ten o'clock in the morning when a
sail was descried broad on the larboard beam.
We gave her no heed at first. It being the
Sabbath, and a warm sweet morning, the
men having nothing to do, hung about the
decks, smoking, telling stories and the like ;
and being cleanly attired in jackets and white
trousers, they contributed a choice detail to
the general structure of well - kept decks,
shining brass work, massive shrouds soaring
from the black dead-eyes to the great round
tops, with further rigging of a similar kind
ruling the topmasts to the cross-trees, and
on yet to the topgallant heights, ropes crossing
ropes and ratline following ratline, till the

tracery, both in its substance aloft and its
shadows below and in the inclined hollows of
the sails, puzzled the eye with the complexity
of a spider's web ; whilst from the water-ways
to the lower yard-arms and thence to the
ends of the yards above, mounted the vast
sheets of canvas, each central surface arching
in snow to the raining light of the sun, like
the fair full breasts of a virgin, passed the
taut bolt-ropes, narrowing as they rose till,
the royal-yards being reached, the sails there
swelled yearning skywards as though they
were portions of the prismatic ribbed and
pearly beds of cloud directly over the ship,
rent from them by the sweep of our trucks
and knitted by our seamen to those lofty
spars.

It was not long, however, before we made
out that the vessel down in the eastern
quarter was steering large, and at the time
the appearance of her canvas assured us of
this, she slackened away her larboard braces

to head up for us, hauling upon a bowline
with a suddenness that left her Intention to
parley with us questionless.

We hoisted the English ensign and held
on a bit, viewing her with an Intentness that
brought many of our eyes to a squint ; then
the captain, observing that she showed no
colours and was a big ship, put his helm up
for a run.

No sooner had we braced In our yards,
when the fellow behind us squared away
too, and threw out lower and topmast studs
with a rapidity that satisfied us she
was a man-of-war, apparently a liner. This
notion, joined to the belief that she was a
Dutchman, was start enough for us all. Our
small company were not likely to hold their
own against the disciplined masses of a two
or three decker, even though she should
prove a Spaniard. Our guns were too few
to do anything with tiers of batteries heavy
enough to blow us out of water. So as there

was nothing for it but a fair trial of speed, we
sprung to our work like hounds newly unleashed,
got her dead before it, ran out 
booms on both sides and sent the
sails aloft soaking wet for the serviceableness
of the weight the wetness would give, and
stationing men in the tops and cross-trees
we whipped up buckets of water to them,
with which they drenched the canvas, till
our cloths must have looked as dark as a
collier's to the ship astern of us.

It was very slow work at first, and we were
thankful for that; for every hour carried us
nearer to the night into which the moon now
entered so late and glowed with such little
power, even when she had floated high, that
we could count, after sundown, upon several
hours of darkness ; but it was not long before
it became evident to us all that, spite of the
ceaseless wetting of our sails, the ship in our
wake was growing. Then, satisfied of her
superiority, and convinced of our nationality,

she let fly a forecastle gun at us, of the ball
of which we saw nothing, and hoisted the
Dutch colours at her fore-royal masthead,
where, at all events, we could not fail to
distinguish the flag.

Confound such luck !" cries Skevington
at this. '' How can our apple-bows contend
with those pyramids of sails there ? What's
to be done ?" he says, as if thinking aloud.
It's clear she's our master in running, and
I fear she'll be more than our match on
a bowline — with the weather gage too !
And yet, by the thunder of Heaven, Mr.
Hall, it does go against the current of any
sort of English blood to haul down that
piece of bunting there," says he, casting his
eyes at the peak where our flag was blowing,
to the command of a Dutchman's cannon !"

'the wind's coming away more easterly,"
said the mate, with a slow turning of his gaze
into the quarter he mentioned, "and it'll be
breeding up presently, if there's any signification

in the darker blue of the sea that
way."

It happened as he said ; but the Dutchman
got the first slant of it, and you saw the
harder pulling of his canvas in the rounded
rigidity of light upon the cloths, whilst the
dusky line of the wind, followed by the flashing
of the small seas, whose leaping heads
it showered into spray, was yet approaching
our languid ship, whose lower and heavy
canvas often flapped in the weak air.

A couple of shot came flying after us from
the man-of-war's purchasers ere the breeze
swept to our spars ; and now the silvery line
of the white water that her stem was hewing
up and sending in a brilliant whirl past her
was easy do be seen ; aye, 'twas even possible
to make out the very lines of her reef-points
upon the fore-course and topsail, whilst
through the glass you could discern groups
of men stationed upon her forecastle, and
mark some quarter-deck figure now and again

impatiently bound on to the rail and over-bane
it like a davit, with an arm round a
backstay, in his eagerness to see how fast
they were coming up with us.

With all element of terror in it extinguished
by time, it is a sight to recall with a sailor's
fondness ; for indeed the Dutchman was a
fine ship, very tall, with port-lids painted red
inside, so that with the guns projecting from
them, in two tiers, the aspect was that of
rows of crimson, wolfish jaws, every beast
with his tongue out ; her yards were immensely
square, and her studding-sail booms
extending great spaces of canvas far over the
side, she showed upon the dark blue frothing
ocean like some Heaven-seeking hill, fiercely
clad with snow to twenty feet above the
water-line, where it was black rock down to
the wash of the froth. In the freshening
wind, as it came up to us, I seemed to catch
an echo of the drum-like roll of the listening
gale in those airy heights, and to hear the

seething of the boiHng stuff at her forefoot.
But, thanks be to Heaven, there was now a
swift racing of foam from under our counter,
whence it streamed away with a noise delicious
to hearken to, as though it was the
singing of the rain of a thunder-cloud upon
hard land ; for whenever the breeze gathered
its weight in our canvas the Saracen sprang
from it meteor-fashion, and away we sped
with helm right amidships, and the wind
flashing fair over the taffrail.

The excitement of this chase was deep in
us when the captain gave orders to train a
couple of guns aft and to continue firing at
the pursuing craft ; which was done, the
powder-smoke blowing like prodigious glistening
cobwebs into our canvas forward.
]meanwhile, the English colours few hardily
at our peak, whilst preventer guys were
clapped on the swinging-booms and other
gear added to give strength aloft ; for the
wind was increasing as if by magic, the

ribbed clouds had broken up and large bodies
of vapour were sailing overhead with many
ivory-white shoulders crowding upon the
horizon, and the strain upon the studding-sail
tacks was extremely heavy. But you saw
that it was Captain Skevington's intention to
make the Saracen drag what she could not
carry, and to let what chose blow away before
he started a rope-yarn, whilst wee had that
monster astern there sticking to our skirts ;
and by this time it was manifest that with
real weight in the wind our heels were pretty
nearly as keen as hers, which made us hope
that should the breeze freshen yet we might
eventually get away.

Well, at three o'clock it was blowing downright
hard, though the weather was fine, the
heavens mottled, the clouds being compacted
and sailing higher, stormy in complexion
and moving slowly ; the sea had grown
hollow and was most gloriously violet in
colour, with plumes of snow, which curled

to the gale on the head of each hould
courser ; the sun was over our fore-topgallant
yard-arm and showered down his glory so
as to form a golden weltering road for
us to steer beside. The ship behind catched
his licht and looked to be chasing us on
wings of yellow silk. But never since her
keel had been laid had the Saracen been so
driven. The waters boiled up to the black-faced
turbaned figure under the bowsprit,
and from aft I could sometimes observe the
glassy curve of the bow sea, arching away for
fathoms forward, showing plain through the
entrails. A couple of hands hung grinding
upon the wheel with set teeth, and the sinews
in their naked arms stood out like cords ;
others were at the relieving-tackles ; and
through it we pelted, raising about us a
bubbled, spurning and hissing surface that
might have answered to the passage of a
whirlwind, repeatedly firing at the Dutch
man-of-war when the heave of the surge gave

us the chance, and noticing the constant flash
in his bows and the white smother that blew
along with him, though the balls of neither
appeared to touch the other of us.

Yet, that we should have been ultimately-overhauled
and brought to a stand I fully
believe but for a providential disaster. For
no matter how dark the dusk may have
drawn around at sundown, the Dutchman
was too close to us to miss the loom of the
great press of canvas we should be forced to
carry : at least, so I hold ; and then, again,
there was the consideration of the wind failing
us with the coming of the stars, for we were
still in the gentle parallels. But let all have
been as it might, I had just noted the
lightning-like wink of one of the enemy's
fore-chasers, when to my exceeding amazement,
ere the ball of smoke could be
shredded into lengths by the gale, I observed
the whole fabric of the Dutchman's towering
foremast, with the great course, swelling

topsail, topgallant-sail and royal, and the
fore-topmast staysail and jibs melt away as
an icicle approached by flame ; and in a
breath, it seemed, the huge ship swung
round, pitching and foaming after the manner
of a harpooned whale, with her broadside
to us, exhibiting the whole fore-part of her
most previously and astonishingly wrecked.

A mighty cheer went up from our decks at
the sight, and there was a deal of clapping of
hands and laughter. Captain Skevington
seized the telescope, and talked as he worked
away with it.

A rotten foremast, by the thunder of
Heaven"' he cried, using his favourite adjuration
; "it could be nothing else. No shot
our guns throw could work such havoc. By
the height that's left standing the spar has
fetched away close under the top. And the
mess ! the mess !"

With the naked eye one could see that.
The foremast had broken in twain ; its fall

had snapped off the jibbooms to the bowsprit
cap, and I do not doubt a nearer view would
have shown us the bowsprit itself severely
wrenched. I could not imagine the like of
that picture of confusion — her studding-sails,
having been set on both sides, drowned all
her forward part in canvas, a goodly portion
of which had been torn into rags by the fall ;
immense stretches of sail lay in the water,
sinking and rising with the rolling of the
ship, and dragging her head to the wind ; her
main topmast studding - sails, and all the
canvas on that mast and the mizzen — the
yards lying square — were shaking furiously,
owing to the posture in which she had fallen ;
every moment this terrible slatting threatened
her other spars ; and it needed not a sailor's
imagination to conceive how fearfully all that
thunderous commotion aloft must heighten
the distracting tumult on deck, the passionate
volleys of commands, the hollow shocks of
seas smiting the inert hull, the shouting of

the seamen, and, as we might be sure, the
cries and groans of the many upon whom
that soaring fabric of yards, sails, and rigging
had fallen with the suddenness of an electric
bolt from the clouds.

For a whole hour after this we touched
not a rope, leaving our ship to rush from the
Dutchman straight as an arrow from a bow.
But, Lord! — the storming aloft! — the fierce
straining of our canvas till tacks and guys,
sheets and braces rang out upon the wind
like the clanking of bells, to a strain upon
them tauter than that of harp-strings ; the
boiling noises of the seas all about our bow
and under our counter, where the great bodies
of foam roared away into our wake, as the
white torrent raves along its bed from the foot
of a hio^h cataract ! There was an excitement
in this speed and triumph of escape from what
must have proved a heavy and inglorious
disaster to us all which put lire into the
blood, and never could I have imagined how

sentient a ship Is, how partlclpent of what
stirs the minds of those she carries, until I
marked the magnificent eagerness of our
vessel's flight — her headlong domination of
the large billows which underrate her, and the
marble-hard distention of her sails, reminding
you of the tense cheeks of one who holds his.
breath in a run for his life.

Distance and the sinking of the sun, and
the shadows which throng sharply upon his
heels In these climes, left the horizon in
course bare to our most searching gaze. We
then shortened sail, and under easy canvas,
we put our helm a-lee, and stood northwards
on a bowline until midnight, when we
rounded In upon our weather-braces and
steered easterly. Captain Skevington suspecting
that the Dutchman would make all haste
to refit and head south under some jury contrivance,
in the expectation that as we were
bound that way when he fell in with us so
we should haul to our course afresh when we

lost sight of him. Yet in the end we saw
him no more, and what ship he was I never
contrived to learn ; but certainly it was an
extraordinary escape, though whether due to
our shot, or to his foremast being rotten, or
to its having been sprung and badly fished,
or to some earlier wound during an engagement,
must be left to conjecture.

VOL. L

WE ARRIVE AT TABLE BAY AND PROCEED
THENCE ON OUR VOYAGE.

But though, after this piece of severe reality,
Captain Skevington had very Httle to say
about such elusive and visionary matters as
had before engaged us, it was clear from
some words which he let fall that he regarded
our meeting with the Dutch battleship
as a sort of reflected ill-luck from the
snow that had passed the Phantom Dutchman,
and the idea possessing him — as
indeed it had seized upon me — that the
Lovely Nancy was sure to meet with misadventure,
and might have the power of
injuring the fortune of any vessel that spoke
with her intimately, as we had, caused him

to navigate the ship with extraordinary
wariness. A man was constantly kept aloft
to watch the horizon, and repeatedly hailed
from the deck that we might know he
was awake to his work ; other sharp-eyed
seamen were stationed on the forecastle ; at
night every light was screened, so that we
moved along like a blot of liquid pitch upon
the darkness. On several occasions I heard
Captain Skevington say that he would sooner
have parted with twenty guineas than have
boarded, or had anything to do with, the
snow. Happily, the adventure with the
Dutchman led the seamen to suppose that
the master's anxiety wholly concerned the
ships of the enemy ; for had it got forward
that the Lovely Nancy had sighted 's
craft off the Agulhas, I don't
question that they would have concluded our
meeting with the snow boded no good to us,
that we were likely ourselves to encounter the
spectral ship — if indeed she were a phantasm,

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

and not a substantial fabric, as I myself
deemed — and so perhaps have refused to
work the Saracen beyond Table Bay.

At that Settlement it was necessary we
should call for water, fresh provisions and
the like ; and on the sixth of July, in the year
1796, we safely entered the Bay and let go
our anchor, nothing of the least consequence
to us having happened since we were chased,
the weather being fine with light winds ever
since the strong breeze before which we had
had run, died away.

After eighty - one days of sea and sky
the meanest land would have offered a noble
refreshment to our gaze ; judge then of the
delight we found In beholding the royal and
ample scenery of as fair and spacious a haven
as this globe has to offer. But as Captain
George Shelvocke, In the' capital account he
wrote of his voyage round the world In 1718,
there points out, the Cape of Good Hope, by
which he must Intend Table Bay, has been so

often described, that, says he, " I can say
nothing of it that has not been said by most
who have been here before."

We lay very quietly for a fortnight, feeling
perfectly secure, as you may conclude when
I tell you that just round the corner, that Is
to say, in Simon's Bay, there were anchored
no less than fourteen British ships of war,
in command of Vice-admiral Sir George
Elphinstone, of which two were seventy-fours,
whilst five mounted sixty-four guns
each. Meeting one of the captains of this
squadron. Captain Skevington told him how
we had been chased by a Dutch liner, and the
replied he did not doubt it was one of he
vessels who were coming to retake — if they
could — the settlement we had captured from
the nation that had established the place.
But I do not think the notion probable, as
the Dutch ships did not show themselves off
Saldanha Bay for some weeks after we had
sailed.

This, however, Is a matter of no moment
whatever.

We filled our water casks, laid in a plentiful
stock of tobacco, vegetables, hogs, poultry,
and such produce as the country yielded,
and on the morning of the eighteenth of July
hove short, with a crew diminished by the
loss of one man only, a boatswain's mate,
named Turner, who, because wee suffered
none of the men to go ashore for dread of
their deserting the ship, slipped down the
cable on the night of our departure, and
swam to the beach naked with some silver
pieces tied round him in a handkerchief.
Behold the character of the sailor ! For a
few hours of such drunken jollity as he may
obtain in the tavern and amid low company,
he will be content to forfeit all he has in the
world. It was known that this man Turner
had a wife and two children at home dependent
upon his earnings ; yet no thoughts of
them could suppress his deplorable, restless

Spirit. But I afterwards heard he was
punished even beyond his deserts ; for being
pretty near spent by his swim, he lay down
to sleep, but was presently awakened by
something crawling over him that proved a
venomous snake called a puff-adder, which,
on his moving, stung him, whereof he died.

It was the stormy season of the year off
South Africa ; but, then, a few days of
westerly winds would blow us into mild and
quiet zones, and, come what might, the ship
we stood on was stout and honest, all things
right and true aloft, the provision-space
hospitably stocked, and the health of the
crew of the best.

'Twas a perfectly quiet, cheerful morning
when we manned the capstan ; the waters of
the bay stretched in an exquisite blue calm
to the sandy wastes on the Blaawberg side,
and thence to where the town stands ; the
atmosphere had the purity of the object-lens
of a perspective glass, and the far distant

Hottentot Holland Mountains, with summits
so mighty that the sky appeared to rest upon
them, gathered to their giant slopes such a
mellowness and richness of blue, that they
showed as a dark atmospheric dye which had
run and stained before being stanched, that
part of the heavens, rather than as prodigious
masses of land of the usual complexion of
mountains when viewed closely. That Imperial
height called Table Mountain, guarded
by the amber-tinted couchant Hon, reared a
marvellously clear sky-line, and there the
firmament appeared as a flowing sea of blue,
flushing its full cerulean bosom to the flat
altitude as though it would overflow it. But
I noticed a shred of crawling vapour gather
up there whilst the crew were crossing at
the capstan, and by the time our topsails
were sheeted home there was a mass of
white vapour some hundred feet in depth,
foaming and churning atop, with delicate
wings of it circling out into the blue, where

they gyrated like butterflies and melted.
The air was full of the moaning noises of
the south-east wind flying out of that cloud
down the steep abrupt full of gorges, scars,
and ravines ; and what was just now a picture
of May-day peace became, on a sudden, a
scene of whipped and creaming ripples ; and
the flashing on shore of the glass of shaken
window-casements through spiral splrtlngs of
reddish dust ; hands aloft on the various
ships at anchor, hastily furling the canvas
that had been loosed to hang Idly to the
sun ; flags, quite recently languid as streaks
of paint, now pulling fiercely at their
halliards ; and Malay fishing-boats, darting
across the bay In a gem-like glittering of
water sliced out by their sharp stems and
slung to the strong wind.

Under small sail we stormed out toward
the ocean, with a desperate screaming of
wind In the rleelnof ; but there was no sea,
for the gale was ofl" the land ; and after

passing some noble and enchanting bays on
whose shores the breakers as tall as our ship
flung their resounding Atlantic thunder, whilst
behind stood ranges of mountains putting a
quality of solemn magnificence Into the cheerful
yellow clothing of the sunshine, with here
and there a small house of an almond whiteness
against the leaves of the silver trees and
sundry rich growths thereabouts. In a moment
we ran sheer out of the gale Into a light wind,
blowing from the north-west.

I don't say we were astonished, since some-while
before reaching the calm part we could
see it clearly defined by the line where the
froth and angry blueness and the fiery
agitation of the wind ended. Still, it was
impossible not to feel surprised as the ship
slipped out of the enraged and yelling belt
into a peaceful sea and a weak new wind
which obliged us to handle the braces and
make sail.

Here happened an extraordinary thing.

As we passed Green Point, where the
weather was placid and the strife waged in
the bay no longer to be seen, a large ship of
six hundred tons, that we supposed was to
call at Cape Town, passed us, her yards
braced up and all plain sail set. She had
some soldiers aboard, showed several guns,
had the English colours flying and offered
a very brave and handsome show, being
sheathed with copper that glowed ruddy to
the soft laving of the glass-bright swell, and
her canvas had the hue of the cotton cloths
which the Spaniards of the South American
main used to spread, and which in these days
form a distinguishing mark of the Yankee
ships. Having not the least suspicion of the
turmoil that awaited her round ]\Iouille Point,
she slipped along jauntily, ready to make
a free wind of the breeze then blowing. But
all on a sudden, on opening the bay, she met
the whole strength of the fierce south-easter.
Down she lay to it, all aback — stopped dead.

Her ports being open, I feared If she were
not promptly recovered, she must founder.
They might let go the halliards, but the yards
being jammed would not travel. It swept
the heart into the throat to witness this
thing ! We brought our ship to the wind
to render help with our boats ; but happily
her mizzen topmast broke, and immediately
after, her main topgallant-mast snapped short
off, close to the cross-trees ; then — though it
must have been wild work on those sloping
decks — they managed to bring the main and
topsail yards square ; whereupon she paid
off, righting as her head swung from the
gale, and with lightened hearts, as may be
supposed, they went to work to let go and
clew up and haul down, whilst you saw how
severe was the need of the pumps they had
manned, by the bright streams of water
which sluiced from her sides.

It was a cruel thing to witness, this sudden
wrecking of the beauty of a truly stately ship,

quietly swinging along over the mild heave
of the swell, like a full-robed, handsome
princess seized and torn by some loathsome
monster, as we read of such matters in old
romances. It was like the blighting breath
of pestilence upon some fair form, converting
into little better than a carcase what was just
now a proud and regal shape, made beauteous
by all that art could give her of apparel, and
all that nature could impart of colour and
lustre.

THE CAPTAIN SPEAKS AGAIN OF THE
DEATH SHIP.

I HAD the first watch on the night of the day
on which we left Table Bay : that is, from
eight till midnight ; and at two bells — nine
o'clock — I was quietly pacing the deck, full of
fancies struck into me by the beauty of the
stars, among which, over the starboard yard-arms,
hung the Southern Cross, shining
purely, and by the mild glory of the moon
that, though short of a day or two of being
full, rained down a keen light that had a hint
of rosiness in it, when Captain Skevington
came out of the cabin, and stepping up to me
stood a minute without speaking, gazing
earnestly right around the sea-circle.

There was a small wind blowing and the

ship, under full sail, was softly pushing
southwards with a pleasant noise as of
the playing of fountains coming from the
direction of her bows.

"A quiet night, Fenton," said the captain,
presently.

"Aye, sir; quiet indeed. There's been a
small show of lightning away down in the
south-west. The wind hangs steady but a
little faint."

'' The sort of nio^ht for meetings with
the Demon Ship, eh, Fenton ?" cried he,
with a laugh that did not sound perfectly
natural.

"There's no chance of such a meeting, I
fear, sir."

You fear ?"

"Well," I exclaimed, struck by his quick
catching up of me, " I mean that as the
Demon Ship, as you term her, is one of the
wonders of the world, the seeing of her
would be a mighty experience — something

big enough in that way to keep a man
talking about it all his life."

'god avert such a meeting!" said he,
lifting his hat, and turning up his face to the
stars.

I suppose, thought I, that our drawing
close to the seas in which the Phantom
cruises has stirred up his superstitious fears
afresh.

'' Did you speak to any one at Cape Town
about \'anderdecken, sirs" said I.

"No," he answered. 'T had got my bellyfull
from the master of the snow. What is
there to ask ?"

*' Whether others have lately sighted the
ship."

'' Why, yes, I might have Inquired, certainly,
but It didn't enter my head. Tell ye
what, though, Fenton, do you remember our
chat t'other day about bodies being endevllled
after they pass an age when by the laws of
great Nature they should die .^"

'' Perfectly well, sir."

Now," continued he, " I was In company
a few nights since where there was one
Cornelius Meyer present, a person ninety-one
years old, but surprisingly sound in all
his faculties, his sight piercing, his hearing
keen, memory tenacious, and so forth. He
was a Dutch Jew, but his patriotism was
coloured by the hue of the flag flying at
Cape Castle : I mean he would take the
Kino of Great Britain and the States-general
as they came. When he left we
talked of him, and this led us to argue
about old age. One gentleman said he did
not know but that it was possible for a man
to live to a hundred-and-fifty, and said there
were Instances of It. I replied, ' Not out of
the Bible,' where the reckoning was not
ours. He answered, 'Yes, out of the Bible;'
and going to a bookshelf, pulled down a
volume, and read a score of names of men
with their ages attached. I looked at the

F

book and saw It was honestly written, and
being struck by this collection of extraordinary
examples, begged the gentleman's
son, who was present, to copy the list out
for me, which he was so obliging as to do. I
have it in my pocket," said he, and he
pulled out a sheet of paper, and then going
to the hatch called to the boy to bring a
lamp on deck.

This was done, the lamp put on the skylight,
and putting the paper close to it, the
captain read as follows : "Thomas Parr, of
Shropshire, died Nov. i6, 1635. aged one
hundred and fifty-two ; Henry Jenkins, of
Yorkshire, died Dec. 8, 1670, aged one
hundred and sixty-nine ; James Sands, of
Staffordshire, died 1770, aged one hundred
and forty ; Louisa Truro, a negress in South
America, was living in 17S0. and her age
was then one hundred and seventy-five."

I burst into a laugh. He smiled too, and
said, '* Here in this list are thirty-one names,

the highest being that negress, and the
lowest one, Susanna HilHar, of Haddington,
Northamptonshire, who died February 19th,
1 78 1, aged one hundred. The young gentleman
who copied them said they were all
honestly vouched for, and wrote down a list
of the authorities, which," said he, peering
and bringing the paper closer to his eyes,
"consist of 'Fuller's Worthies,' 'Philosophical
Transactions,' ' Durham's Physico-theology,'
several newspapers, such as the ' morning
Post,' •' Daily Advertiser,' 'London Chronicle,'
and a number of inscriptions."

I could have been tolerably sarcastic, I
daresay, when he mentioned the authority
of the newspapers, always understanding that
those sheets flourish mainly on lies, and I
should have laughed again had I not been restrained
by the sense that Captain Skevington
was clearly " bitten " on this subject, actually
worried by it, indeed, to such lengths, that
if he did not mind his eye it might presently

push into a delusion, and earn him the disconcerting
reputation of being a madman ; so
I thought I would talk gravely, and said,
'* May I ask, sir, why you should have been
at the pains to collect that evidence in your
hand about old age ?"

"A mere humour," said he, lightly, putting
the paper away, "though I don't mind owning
it would prodigiously gratify me if I
could be the instrument of proving that men
can overstep the bounds of natural life by as
many years again, and yet possess their own
souls and be as true to their original as they
were when hearty young fellows flushed with
the summer colours of life."

Some fine rhymes coming into my head, I
exclaimed, '' Cowley has settled that point, I
think, when he says : —

To things immortal time can do no wrong,
And that which never is to die for ever must be

young.'

'' A noble fancy Indeed !" cried the captain.
He reflected a little, and said, "It would

make a great noise among sailors, and perhaps
all men, to prove that the mariners who
man the Death Ship are not ghosts and
phantoms as has been surmised, but survivors
of a crew, men who have outlived their
fellows, and are now extremely ancient, as
these and scores of others who have passed
away unnoticed have been," said he, touching
his pocket where the paper was.

"When, sir, did Vanderdecken sail from
Batavia ?" I asked.

I have always understood about the year
1650," he replied.

'' Then," said I, calculating, "suppose the
average age of the crew to have been thirty
when the Curse was uttered — we'll name that
figure for the sake of argument — in the
present year of our Lord they will have
attained the age of hard upon one hundred
and eighty."

"Well?" said he, inquiringly, as though
there was yet food for argument.

I shook my head.

"Then," he cried, with heat, "they are
mandeville, for it must be one of two things.
They can't be dead men as the corpse in the
grave is dead."

"One could only judge by seeing with
one's eyes," said I.

I hope that won't happen," he exclaimed,
taking a hasty turn ; "though I don't know
I don't know! A something here," pressing
his brow, " weighs down upon me like a
warning. I have struggled to get rid of the
fancy ; but our being chased by the Dutchman
shows that we did not meet that
Plymouth snow for nothing ; and, by the
thunder of Heaven, Fenton, I fear — I fear
our next bout will be with the Spectre."

His manner, his words, a gleam in his eye,
to which the lantern lent no sparkle, sent
a tremor through me. He caused me to fear
him for a minute as one that talked with
certainty of futurity through stress of prophetic

craze. The yellow beams of the
lantern dispersed a narrow circle of lustre,
and in it our figures showed black, each with
two shadows swaying at his feet from the
commingling of the lamplight and the
moonshine. The soft air stirred in the
rigging like the rustle of the pinions of
invisible night-birds on the wing ; all was
silent and in darkness along the decks, save
where stood the figure of the helmsman
just before the little round-house, outlined by
the flames of the binnacle lamp ; the stillness,
unbroken to the farthest corners of the
mighty plain of ocean, seemed as though
it were some mysterious spell wrought by the
stars, so high it went, even — so one might
say — as a sensible presence to the busy,
trembling faces of those silver worlds.

In all men, even in the dullest, there is a
vein of imagination ; whilst, like an artery, it
holds sound, all is well. But sometimes it
breaks, God knows how, for the most part,

and then what is in it floods the intelligence
often to the drowning of it, as the bursting of
a vessel of the body within sickens or kills
with hemorrhage. I considered some such
idea as this to be applicable to Captain
Skevington. Here was apparently a plain,
sturdy sailor, qualified to the life for such talk
as concerns ships, weather, lading and the
like ; yet it was certain he was exceedingly
superstitious, believing in such a Devil as the.
ancient monks figured forth, also in the possession
of dead bodies by demons who caused
them to move and act as though operated
upon by the souls they came from their
mothers with, with a vast deal of other pitiful
fancies ; and now, through our unhappy
meeting with that miserable snow he had
let his mind run on the Phantom Ship so
vehemently that he was not only cocksure
wee should meet the Spectre, but had reasoned
the whole fabric and manning of her out on
two issues ; either that her hands were survivors

of her original crew, persons who had

cheated Nature by Hving to an age the Hke

of which had not been heard of since the

days of Moses and the "prophets, beings who,

Like a lamp would live to the last wink
And crawl upon the utmost verge of life ;

or that they were mariners who, having
arrived at the years when they would have
died but for being cursed, had been seized
upon by the Devil, quickened by him, and
set a-going with their death-hour aspects
upon them.

These reflections occupied my mind after
he had left me, and I don't mind confessing
that what with my own belief in the Death
Ship, coupled with the captain's notions and
the fancies they raised in me, along with the
melancholy vagueness of the deep, hazy with
moonshine, the stillness, and the sense of our
drawing near to where the Spectre was
chiefly to be met, I became so uneasy that I
contrived to spend the rest of my watch on

deck within a few paces of the wheel, often
addressing the helmsman for the sake of
hearing his voice ; and I tell you I was mighty
pleased when midnight came round at last,
so that I could go below and dispatch the
mate to a scene in which his heavy mind
would witness nothing but water and sky,
and a breeze much too faint to be profitable.

I CONVERSE ^VITH THE SHIP's CARPENTER
ABOUT THE DEATH SHIP.

And now for six days it veritably seemed as
if we were to be transformed into the marine
phantom that, unsubstantial as she might
be, yet lay with the heaviness of lead upon
Captain Skevington ; for, being on the parallel
of Agulhas, a little to the south of that latitude,
and in about sixteen degrees west
longitude, It came on to blow fresh from
the south-east, hardening after twenty-four
hours Into a whole gale with frequent and
violent guns, and a veering of It easterly ;
and this continued, with a lull of an hour or
two's duration, for six days, as I have said.
'Twas a taste of Cape weather strong enough

to last a man a lifetime. The sea lay
shrouded to within a musket-shot by a
vapour of slavish hue that looked to stand
motionless, and past the walls and along
the roof of this wild, dismal, cloud-formed
chamber, with Its floor of vaults and frothing
brows, the wind swept raving, raising a
terrible lead-coloured sea, with heads which
seemed to rear to the height of our maintop,
where they broke, and boiled like a cauldron
with foam, great masses of which the hands
of the gale caught up and hurled, so that the
lashing of the spray was often like a blinding
snowstorm, but so smarting that the wind
was as if charged with javelins.

Look upon the chart and you will see that
for measureless leases there is in these

o

waters no land to hinder the run of the
surges. Hence, when a fierce gale comes on
from the east, south or west, the seas which
rise are prodigious beyond such language as
I have at command to express. We lay-to

under a storm staysail with topgallant-masts
struck, yards on deck and the lower yards
stowed on the rail, the hatches battened
down and everything as snug as good seamanship
could provide. Our decks were
constantly full of water ; bv one great sea
that fell over into the waist there were
drowned no less than six of the sheep we had
taken in at the Cape, with a hog and many
fowls; the carpenter's leg was broken by a
fall, and an able seaman was deeply gashed
in the face by being thrown against a scuttle-butt
; 'twas impossible to get any food
cooked, and throughout that week we subsisted
on biscuit, cheese and such dry and
lean fare as did not need dressings. In short,
I could fill a chapter with our sufferings
and anxieties during that period.

I had supposed that when brought face to
face with the stern harsh prose of such
weather as this, the mournful, romantic stuff
that filled the captain's head would have

been clean blown out of it ; but no ! he
repeatedly said to me, and I believe on more
than one occasion to Mr. Hall, that he considered
this weather as part of the ill-luck
that was bound to come to us from our
having spoken a vessel that had been passed
within hailing distance by the Phantom Ship.
On the fifth morning of the gale, the pair
of us being in the cabin, he informed me that
a man named Cobweb, who was at the helm
the night before, had told him that some of
the crew were for putting this foul storm
down to one Murder, or some such name, who
was a Russian Finn, a sober, excellent seaman,
and one of the only two foreigners in
our forecastle ; that to neutralise any magical
influence he might possess, a horse shoe had
been nailed to the foremast and the mainmast
pierced and scored with a black - handled
knife. He smiled at these superstitions but
did not seem to suspect that his own, as being
received by a man of thought and tolerable

education, might by many be deemed much
more worthy of ridicule.

But on the sixth day the gale broke,
leaving our ship considerably strained, by
which time, in spite of the current and the
send of the sea, we had contrived to make
forty miles of southing and easting, owing to
our pertinacity in making sail and stretching
away on a board at every lull.

It was shortly after this, on the Tuesday
following the Friday on which the gale
ended, that, it being my watch on deck from
eight o'clock in the evening till midnight, I
carried my pipe, an hour before my turn
arrived, into the carpenter's cabin, which he
shared with the boatswain, to give the poor
fellow a bit of my company, for his broken
leg kept him motionless. It was the second
dog-watch, as we term the time, 'twixt six
and eight o'clock, at sea, the evening Indifferently
fine, the wind over the starboard
quarter, a quiet breeze, the ocean heaving ina

lazy swell from the south, and the ship
pushing forward at five knots an hour under
fore and main-royal. The carpenter lay ina
bunk, wearing a haggard face, and grizzly
for lack of the razor. He was a very sensible
sober man, a good artificer, and had served
under Lord Howe in the fleet equipped for
the relief of Gibraltar, besides having seen a
deal of cruising work in earlier times.

He was much obliged by my looking in
upon him, and we speedily fell to yarning ;
he lighted a pipe, and I smoked likewise,
whilst I sat upon his chest, taking in with a
half-look round, such details as a rude sketch
of the bo's'n's wife nailed to the bulkhead,
the slush lamp swinging its dingy smoking
flame to a cracked piece of looking-glass
over against the carpenter's bed, an ancient
horny copy of the Bible, with type pretty
nigh as big as the letters of our ship's name,
a bit of a shelf wherefrom there forked out
the stems of some clay pipes, with other

humble furniture such as a sailor is used
to carry to sea with him.

After a little, the carpenter, whose name
was Matthews, says to me, " I beg pardon,
sir, but there's some talk going about among
the men concerning the old Dutchman that
was cursed last century. My mate, Joe
Marner, told me that Jimmy — meaning the
cabin-boy — was telling some of the crew this
morning, that he heard the captain say the
Dutchman's been sighted."

By anyone aboard us .^" I asked.

*' Mebbe, sir, but I didn't understand
that."

Now, as every hour was carrying us
further to the eastward of the Cape, away
from the Phantom's cruising-ground, and as,
moreover, the leaving gossip to make its own
way would surely in the end prove more
terrifying to the nervous and superstitious onboard
than speaking the truth, I resolved to
tell Matthews how the matter stood, and with

G

that, acquainted him with what the master of
the snow had told Captain Skevington. He
looked very grave, and withdrew his pipe
from his lips, and I noticed he did not offer
to light the tobacco afresh.

"I'm sorry to hear this, sir," says he.

"But," said I, "what has the Lovely
Nancy's meeting with the Dutchman got todo
with us ?"

"Only this, sir," he exclaimed, with his
face yet more clouded, and speaking in a low
voice, as one might in a sacred building, " I
never yet knew or heard of a ship reporting
to another of having met the Dutchman
without that other a-meeting of the Ghost too
afore she ended her voyage."

If that be so," I cried, not liking to hear
this, for matthews had been to sea for thirty-five
years, and he now spoke with too much
emotion not to affect me, "for God's sake
don't make your thoughts known to the crew,
and least of all to the captain, who is already

SO uneasy on this head that when he mentions
It he talks as If his mind were adrift."

Mr. Fenton," said the carpenter, " I
never yet knew or heard of a ship reporting
to another of having met the Dutchman,
without that other meeting the Ghost too
afore she's ended her vovao^e," and thus
speaking he smote his bed heavily with his
fist.

I was startled by the emphasis his repeating
his former words gave to the assurance,
and smoked In silence. He put
down his pipe and lay awhile looking at meas
though turning: some matters over In his
mind. The swlno^ of the flame, burnlno^ from
the spout of the lamp put various expressions,
wrought bv the fluctuating; shadows,
Into his sick face, and It was this perhaps
that caused his words to possess a power
I could not felon to you bv anv art of mv
pen. He asked me If I had ever seen the
Dutchman, and on my answering "No," he

said that the usual notion among sailors was
that there is but one vessel sailing the seas
with the curse of Heaven upon her, but that
that was a mistake, as it was an error in the
same way to suppose that this ocean from
Agulhas round to the Mozambique was the
only place in which the Phantom was to be
met.

'there's a ship," said he, "after the
pattern of this here Dutchman, to be found
in the Baltic. She always brings heavy
weather, and there's small chance afterwards
for any craft that sights her."

I've been trading in the Baltic for five
years without ever hearing that," said I.

But it's true all the same, Mr. Fenton ;
you ask about it, sir, when you get back, and
then you'll see. There's another vessel, of
the same pattern, that's to be met down in
the mouth of the Channel, 'twixt Ushant and
the Sallies, and thereabouts. A man I know,
called Jimmy Robbins, saw her, and told me

the yarn. He was In a ship bound home
from the Spice Islands ; they were In soundings,
and heading round for the Channel ; it
was the morning watch, just about dawn,
weather slightly thickish ; suddenly a vessel
comes heaving out of the smother from
God knows where ! Jim Robbins was coiling
down a rope alongside the mate, who,
on seeing the vessel, screams out shrill, like
a woman, and falls flat in a swound ; Jim,
looking, saw it was the Channel Death Ship,
a large pink, manned by skeletons, with
a skull for a figure-head, and a skeleton
captain leaning against the mast, watching
the running of the sand in an hour-glass
he held. She was seen by twelve others,
besides Jim and the mate, who nearly died
of the fright. And the consequence of meeting
her was, that the ship Jim Robbins was
in was cast away on the following night on
the French coast, down Saint Brigs way,
and thirty-three souls perished."

The gravity with which he related this,
and his evident keen belief in these and the
Hke superstitions, now rendered the conversation
somewhat diverting ; for, as I have
elsewhere said, though I never questioned
the existence of the one spectral ship, in a
belief in which all mariners are united, holding
that the deep, which is full of drowned
men, hath its spirits and its apparitions
equally with the land, yet when it came to
such crude mad fancies as a vessel manned
by skeletons, why, of course, there was
nothing for it but to laugh, which I did,
heartily enough, though in my sleeve,
for seamen are a sensitive people, easily
affronted, more especially in any article of
their faith. However, he succeeded, before
I left him, in exciting a fresh uneasiness
in me by asseverating, in a most melancholy
voice, and with a very dismal face, that
our having spoken with the snow that had
sighted the Dutchman was certain to be

followed by misfortune ; and these being
amongst the last words he exchanged with
me before I left his cabin, I naturally carried
away with me on deck the damping and
desponding impression of his posture and
appearance as he uttered them, which were
those of a man grieved, bewildered, and
greatly alarmed.

A TRAGICAL DEATH.

For some time after I had relieved the deck,
as It Is termed, that Is to say, after the mate
had gone below and left me In charge, I had
the company of the captain, who seemed restless
and troubled, often quitting my side as
we paced, to go to the rail and view the
horizon, with the air of a man perturbed by
expectation. I need not tell you that I did
not breathe a word to him respecting my talk
with the carpenter, not even to the extent
of saying how fancies about the Dutchman
were flying about among the crew, for this
subject he was In no state of mind to be
brought Into.

The moon was rising a little before he
joined me, and we stood in silence watching

her. She jutted up a very sickly faint red,
that brightened but a Httle after she Hated her
lower limb clear of the horizon, and when
we had the full of her plain we perceived
her strangely distorted by the atmosphere of
the shape — if shape it can be called — of a
rotten orange that has been squeezed, or of
a turtle's egg lightly pressed ; she was more
like a blood-coloured jelly distilled by the
sky, ugly and even affrighted, than the
sweet ice-cold planet that pearls the world
at night, and whose delicate silver the lover
delights to behold in his sweetheart's eyes.
But she grew more shapely as she soared,
though holding a dusky blush for a much
longer time than ever I had noticed in her
when rising off the mid-African main ; and
her wake, broken by the small, black curl of
the breeze, hung in broken indissoluble lumps
of feverish light, like coagulated gore that
had dropped from the wound she looked to
be in the dark sky.

There was a faintness In the heavens that
closed out the sparkles of the farther stars,
and but a few, and those only of the greatest
magnitude, were visible, shining in several
colours, such as dim pink and green and wan
crystal ; all which, together with one or two
of them above our masthead, dimly glittering
amidst feeble rings, made the whole
appearance of the night amazing and even
ghastly enough to excite a feeling of awe In
the attention it compelled. The captain
spoke not a word whilst the moon slowly
floated Into the dusk, and then fetching a
deep breath, he said —

Well, thank God, if she don't grow round
It's because of the shadow on her. Keep a
bright look-out, Mr. Fenton, and hold the
ship to her course. Should the wind fail call
me — and call me too If It should head us."

With which he walked quietly to the
hatch, stood there a moment or two with his
hand upon it and his face looking up as

though he studied the trim of the yards, and
then disappeared.

My talk with the carpenter and the behaviour
of the captain bred In me a sense as
of something solemn and momentous Informing
the hours. I reasoned with myself, I
struggled with the Inexplicable oppression
that weighed down my spirits, but it would
not do. I asked myself, "Why should the
cheap, illiterate fears of such a man as the
carpenter affect me ? Why should I find the
secret of my soul's depression in the superstitions
of Captain Skevington, whose arguments
as to the endearment of the dead
exhibited a decay of his intellect on one side,
as phthisis consumes one lung, leaving the
other sound enough for a man to go on living
with ?" And I recited these comfortable
lines of the poet : —

Learn though mishap may cross our ways,
It is not ours to reckon when."

Yet in vain. There was an intelligence of

my Spirits that was not to be soothed, and I
found myself treading about the deck, stepping
lightly, as a man might who walks upon
ground under which the dead lie, whilst I felt
so much worried, down to the very bottom of
my heart, that had some great sorrow just
befallen me I could not have been sadder.

As the night wore on the moon gathered
her wanted hue and shape, though her
refulgence was small, for the air thickened.
Indeed, at half-past ten all the lights of
Heaven, saving the moon, had been put outby
a mist, the texture of which was illustrated
by the only luminary the sky contained,
around whose pale expiring disc there was
now a great halo, with something of the
character of a lunar rainbow in the very delicate,
barely determinable tinctures, which
made a sort of shadowy prism of it, more
like what one would dream of than see. The
ocean lay very black, there was no power in
the moon to cast a wake, the breathing of

the wind rippled the water and caused a scintillation
of the spangles of the phosphorus or
sea-fire, the weight of the lower sails kept
them hanging up and down, and what motion
the ship had was from the swelling of the
light canvas that rose very pale and ghostly
into the gloom.

I had gone to the taffrail and was staring
there away into the dark, whither our short
wake streamed in a sort of smouldering
cloudiness with particles of fire in it, conceiving
that the wind was failing, and waiting
to make sure before reporting to the captain,
when I was startled by the report of a
musket or some small arm that broke upon
my ear with a muffled sound, so that whence
it came I could not conceive. Yet, for some
minutes I felt so persuaded the noise had
been seawards that, spite of there having
been no flash, I stood peering hard into the
dark, first one side then the other, far as the
sails would suffer me.

Then, but all very quickly, concluding that
the explosion had happened aboard and
might betoken mischief, I ran along the deck
where, close against the wheel, I found a
number of seamen talking hurriedly and in
alarmed voices. I called out to know what
that noise had been. None knew. One
said It had come from the sea, another that
there had been a small explosion in the hold,
and a third was giving his opinion, when at
that instant a figure darted out of the companion
hatch, clothed In his shirt and drawers,
and cried out, " Mr. Fenton ! Mr. Fenton !
For God's sake, where are you ?"

I recognized the voice of Mr. Hall, and
bawled back, 'there, sir!" and ran to him.
He grasped my arm. '' The captain has
shot himself!" he exclaimed.

"Where Is he?" said I.

*' In his cabin," he answered.

We rushed down together. The great
cabin, where we messed, was in darkness,

but a light shone In the captain's berth.
The door was open, and gently swung with
the motion of the ship. I pushed In, but
Instantly recoiled with horror, for, right
athwart the deck lay the body of Captain
Skevlngton, with the top of his head blown
away. It needed but one glance to know
that he had done this thing with his own
hand. He had fired the piece with his foot
by a string attached to the trigger, standing
upright with his brow bent to the muzzle, for
the bight of the string was round his shoe,
and he had fallen sideways, grasping the
barrel.

The sight froze me to the marrow. Had
I killed him by accident with my own hand I
could not have trembled more. But this
exquisite distress was short-lived. It was
only needful to look at his head to discover
how fruitless would be the task of examining
him for any signs of life. Some of the seamen
who heard Mr. Hall cry out to me

about this thing had followed us below,
forgetting their place in the consternation
roused in them, and stood in the doorway
faintly groaning and muttering exclamations
of pity. Mr. Hall bid a couple of them raise
the body and lay it in its bunk and cover it
with a sheet, and others he sent for water
and a swab wherewith to cleanse the place.

You had better go on deck again,
Fenton," says he to me; "the ship must
be watched. I'll join you presently."

I was glad to withdraw ; for albeit there
was a ghastliness in the look of the night, the
sea being black as ebony, though touched
here and there with little sheets of fire, and
stretching like a pall to its horizon that
was drawing narrower and murder around
us minute after minute, with the wing-like
shadow of vapour that was yet too thin to
deserve the name of fog ; though there was
this ghastliness, I say, aided by the moon
that was now little more than a dim, tarnished

blotch of shapeless silver, wanly ringed
with an ashen cincture, yet the taste of the
faint breeze was as helpful to my spirits asa
dram of generous cordial after the atmosphere
of the cabin in which I had beheld
the remains of Captain Skevington.

VOL. L H

MR. HALL HARANGUES THE CREW.

The news had spread quickly ; the watch
below had roused out and most of the men
were on deck, and they moved about In
groups striving to find out all about the
suicide. The death of a captain of a ship at
sea Is sure always to fill the crew with uneasiness
; a sense of uncertainty is excited, and
then again there is that darkening of the
spirits which the shadow of death particularly
causes amonof a slender community who have
been for months associated as a family, and
amid whom, every man's face, speech, and
manner are, maybe, more familiar than his
own brother's or father's.

Yet of all the souls on board I suspect I

felt the captain's self-murder most sorely, for
owing to there being in my mind much more
that was akin to his own moods than he
could find in Mr. Hall, we had had many and
long conversations together. Then there was
the Death Ship for me to recall, with his
thoughts on it and his conviction that evil
was sure to follow his boarding the Plymouth
snow. moreover, I was the last with whom
he had exchanged words that night, and in
his manner of quitting me, after looking at
the moon, there was positively nothing that
even my startled and imaginative mind could
witness to indicate the intention that had
destroyed him.

Presently Mr. Hall arrived on deck fully
dressed, and stepping over to where I stood
in deep thought, exclaimed, " Did you have
a suspicion that the captain designed this
fearful act ?"

''No, not a shadow of a suspicion," I
answered.

'TIs enough to make one believe he was
not far out when he talked of the ill-luck he
expected from speaking a craft that had
sighted Vanderdecken," said he, very uneasily,
which made me see how strong was
the blow his nerves had received ; and running
his eyes restlessly over the water here
and there, as I might tell by the dim sparkle
the faint moon-haze kindled in them. " Oh,
but," he continued, as if dashing aside his
fancies, " the mere circumstance of his being
so superstitious ought to explain the act. I
have often thought there was a vein of
madness in him."

I never questioned that," I replied.

'' 'Tis an ugly-looking night," said he, with
a little tremble running through him, " there
is some menace of foul weather. We shall lose
this faint air presently." He shivered again
and said, " Such a sight as that below is
enough to make a Hell of a night of midsummer
beauty ! It is the suddenness of

it that seizes upon the Imagination Why,
d'ye know, Fenton, I'd give a handful of
guineas, poor as I am, for a rousing gale
anything to blow my mind to its bearings,
for here's a sort of business," looking aloft,
*' that's fit to suffocate the heart in your
breast."

Such words in so plain and literal a man
made me perceive how violently he had been
wrenched. I begged his leave to go below
and fetch him a glass of liquor.

"No, no," said he, 'not yet, anyhow. I
must speak to those fellows there."

Saying which he walked a little distance
forward, calling for the boatswain.

On that officer answering, he said, " Are
all hands on deck ?"

I believe most of the crew are on deck,
sir," replied the boatswain.

Pipe all hands," said Mr. Hall.

The clear keen whistling rose shrill to the
sails and made as blythe a sound as could

have been devised for the cheering of us up.
The men gathered quickly, some hawthorns
were fetched, and in the light of them stoocj
the crew near to the round-house. A strange
sight it was ; the shining went no higher than
half-way up the mainsail that hung steady
with its owen weight, and as much of it as was
thus Illuminated showed like cloth of o^old
pale in the dusk ; above was mere shadow,
the round-top like a drop of ink upon the
face of the darkness, the sails of so weak a
hue they seemed as though in the act of
dissolving and vanishing away ; the crowd of
faces were all pale and their eyes full of
gleaming ; the shadows crawled at our feet,
and, with the total concealment of the moon
at this time, a deeper shade fell upon the sea
and our ship, and the delicate rippling of the
water alongside seemed to stir upon our ears
In a tinkling as from out of the middle air.

Mr. Hall made a brief speech. He explained
to the men how, on hearing the

report of a musket, he had sprung from his
bed, and perceiving powder-smoke leaking
through the openings in the door of the
captain's cabin, through which some rays
of Hght streamed, he entered, and seeing
the body of the captain, and the horrid condition
of the head, was filled with a panic
and rushed on deck. That the master had
shot himself was certain, but there was no
help for what had happened. The command
of the ship fell upon him ; but it was
for them to say whether he should navigate
the ship to her destination, or carry her back
to Table Bay, where a fresh commander
could be obtained.

He was very well liked on board, being
an excellent seaman ; and the crew on hearing
this, immediately answered that they
wanted no better master to sail under than
he, and that, indeed, they would not consent
to a change ; but having said this with a
heartiness that pleased me, for I liked ]mr.

Hall greatly myself, and was extremely glad
to find the crew so well disposed, they fell
Into an awkward silence, broken after a little
by some hoarse whisperings.

'what now?" says Mr. Hall.

"Why, sir," answers the boatswain, respectfully,
'rit's this with the men: there's
a notion among us that that there Plymouth
snow has brought Ill-luck to the ship, one
bad specimen of which has just happened ;
and the feeling Is that we had better return
to Table Bay, so as to get the Influence
worked out of the old barley."

How Is that to be done ?" says Mr. Hall,
coming easily Into the matter, partly because
of his shaken nerves, and partly because of
the kindness he felt towards the hands for
the way they had received his address to
them.

Here there was another pause, and then
the boatswain, speaking somewhat shyly,
said, "The carpenter, who's heard tell more

about the Phantom Ship and the spell she
lays on vessels than all hands of us put
together, says that the only way to work out
of a ship's timbers the ill-luck that's been put
into them by what's magical and hellish, is
for a minister of religion to come aboard,
call all hands to prayer, and ask of the Lord
a blessing on the ship. He says there's no
other way of purifying of her."

'' Can't we pray ourselves for a blessing ?"
says Mr. Hall.

The boatswain not quickly answering, a
sailor says, "It needs a man who knows
how to pray — who's acquainted with the
right sort of words to use."

"Aye," cried another, 'rand whose calling
is religion."

Mr. Hall half turned, as if he would
address me, then checking himself, he said,
Well, my lads, there's no wind now, and
small promise of any. Suppose we let this
matter rest till tomorrow morning • Mr.

'?-> '

Fenton and I will talk it over, and you
forward can turn it about in your minds. I
believe we shall be easier when the captain's
buried and the sun's up, and then we might
agree it would be a pity to put back after the
tough job we've had to get where we are.
But lest you should still be all of one mind
on this matter in the morning, we'll keep the
ship, should wind come, under small sail, so
as to make no headway worth speaking
of during the night. Is that to your fancy,
men ?"

They all said it was, and thereupon went
forward, but I noticed that those who were
off duty did not offer to go below ; they
joined the watch on the forecastle, and I
could hear them in earnest talk, their voices
trembling through the stillness like the humming
of a congregation in church following
the parson's reading.

Mr. Hall came to my side and we walked
the deck.

'* I am sorry the men have got that notion
of this ship being under a spell," said he.
'' This is no sweet time of the year in these
seas ; to put back will, I daresay, be only to
anger the weather that's now quiet enough,
and there's always the risk of falling into
Dutch hands."

I told him of my talk with the carpenter,
and said that I could not be surprised the
crew were alarmed, for the old fellow had the
Devil's own knack of putting his fancies in
an alarming way.

I laughed at some of his fancies'' said I,
"but I don't mind owning that I quitted his
cabin so dulled in my spirits by his talk, that
I might have come from a death-bed for all
the heart there was in me."

'' Well, things must take their chance,"
said Mr. Hall. '' I'll speak to the carpenter
myself in the morning, and afterwards to the
men ; and if they are still wishful that the
ship should return to Table Bay we'll sail her

there. TIs all one to me I'd liefer have a
new captain over me than be one."

We continued until five bells to walk to
and fro the deck, talking about the captain's
suicide, the strangeness of It as following his
belief that Ill-luck had come to the ship from
the Plymouth vessel, with other such matters
as would be suggested by our situation and
the tragedy in the cabin ; and Mr. Hall then
bald he would go below for a glass of rum ;
but he refused to lie down — though I offered
to stand an hour of his watch, that is from
midnight till one o'clock — for he said he
should not be able to sleep.

]Most of the crew continued to hang about
the forecastle, which rescued the deck from
the extreme loneliness I had found in It ere
the report of the fatal musket startled all
hands into wakefulness and movement. The
hawthorns had been carried away and the ship
was plunged In darkness. There still blew a
very light air, so gentle that you needed to

wet your finger and hold It up to feel it.
From the darkness aloft fell the delicate
sounds of the higher canvas softly drumming
the masts to the very slight rolling of the
ship. I went to the binnacle and found that
the vessel was heading her course, and then
stepped to the rail, upon which I set my
elbows, leaning my chin in my hands, and In
that posture fell a-thinking.

WE DRAW CLOSE TO A STRANGE AND
LUMINOUS SHIP.

Now I might have stood thus for ten
minutes, when I was awakened from my
dream by an eager feverish muttering of
voices forward, and on a sudden the harsh
notes of a seaman belonging to my watch
cried out, " D'ye see that sail, right broad
a-beam, sir?"

I sprang from my leaning posture, and
peered, but my eyes where heavy ; the night
was dark, and whilst I stared several of the
sailors came hurriedly aft to where I stood,
and said, all speaking together, '' There —
see her, sir ? Look yonder, Mr. Fenton !"
and their arms, to a man, shot out to point,
as if every one levelled a pistol.

Though I could not immediately make out
the object, I was not surprised by the consternation
the sailors were in ; for, such was
the mood and temper of the whole company,
that not the most familiar and prosaic craft
that floats on the ocean could have broken
through the obscurity of the night upon their
gaze without tickling their superstitious instincts,
till the very hair of their heads
crawled to the inward motions. In a few
moments, sure enough, I made out the loom
of what looked a large ship, out on the starboard
beam. As well as I could distinguish
she was close hauled, and so standing as to
pass under our stern. She made a sort of
faintness upon the sea and sky where she
was : nothing more. And even to be sure
of her, it was necessary to look a little on
one side or the other of her ; for if you
gazed full she went out, as a dim distant
light at sea does, thus viewed.

She may be an enemy !" I cried.

*' There should be no lack of Dutch or even
French hereabouts. Quick, lads, to stations.
Send the boatswain here."

I ran to the companion hatch and called
loudly to Mr. Hall. He had fallen asleep on
a locker, and came running in a blind sort of
way to the foot of the ladder, shouting out,
'' What is it ? What is it ?" I answered
that there was a large ship heading directly
for us, whereupon he was instantly wide
awake, and sprang up the ladder, crying,
** Where away ? Where away ?"

If there was any wind I could feel none.
Yet some kind of draught there must have
been, for the ship out in the darkness held a
brave luff, which proved her under command.
We, on the other hand, rested upon the
liquid ebony of the ocean with square yards,
the mizzen furled, the starboard clew of the
mainsail hoisted, and the greater number of
our staysails down. Whilst Mr. Hall stared
in the direction of the ship the boatswain

arrived for orders. The mate turned smartly
to me. and said, "We must make ready, and
take our chance. Bo's'n, pipe to quarters,
and ]mr. Fenton, see all clear."

For the second time in miV watch the
boatswain's pipe shrilled clear to the canvas,
from whose stretched, still folds, the sounds
broke away in ghostly echoes. We were nota
man-of-war, had no drums, and to martial
duties we could but address ourselves clumsily.
But all felt that there might be a great
danger in the pale shadow yonder that had
seemed to ooze out upon our eyes from the
darkness as strangely as a cloud shapes itself
upon a mountain-top.

So we tumbled about quickly and wildly
enough, got our little batteries clear, put on
the hatch-gratings and tarpaulins, opened the
magazine, lighted the matches, provided the
guns with spare breeches and tackles, and
stood ready for whatever was to come. All
this we contrived with the aid of one or two

VOL. L I

lanterns, very secretly moved about, as Mr.
Hall did not wish us to be seen making
ready ; but the want of light delayed us,
and, by the time we were fully prepared,
the strange ship had insensibly floated down
to about three-quarters-of-a-mile upon our
starboard quarter.

At that distance it was too black to enable
us to make anything of her, but we comforted
ourselves by observing that she did
not offer to alter her course, whence we
might reasonably hope that she was a peaceful
trader like ourselves. She showed no
lights — her sails were all that was visible of
her, owing to the hue they put into the darkness
over her hull. It was a time of heavy
trial to our patience. Our ship had come to
a dead stand, as it was easy to discover by
looking over the side, where the small, pale
puffs of phosphoric radiance that flashed
under water at the depth of a man's hand
from our vessel's strakes whenever she

rolled, no matter how daintily, to the swell,
hung glimmering for a space In the selfsame
spot where they were discharged. Nor was
there the least sound of water In motion
under our counter, unless it were the gurgling,
drowning sobbing you hear thereon
a still night, when the stern stoops
to the drop of the fold, and raises that
strange, hollow noise of washing all about
the rudder.

I would to mercy a breeze would come If
only to resolve her !" said Mr. Hall to me ina
low voice. " There's but little fun to begot
out of this sort of waiting. At this rate
we must keep the men at their stations till
daylight to find out what she Is. Pleasant if
she should prove some lump of a Dutch man-of-war
! She shows uncommonly large, don't
you think, Fenton ?"

So do we to her, I dare say. In this
obscurity," I replied. " But I doubt that
she's a man-of-war. I've been watching her

closely and have never once caught sight of
the least gleam of a light aboard her."

Maybe the officer of the watch and the
look-out are sound asleep," said he, with a
slight and not very merry laugh ; " and if
she's steered on her quarter-deck she'll be
too deep-waisted perhaps for the helmsman
to see us."

I heard him say this without closely heeding
it, for my attention at that moment was
attracted by what was unquestionably the
enlargement of her pallid shadow ; sure proof
that she had shifted her helm and was slowly
coming round so as to head for us. Mr.
Hall noticed this as soon as I.

"Ha!" he cried, "they mean to find out
what we are, hey ? They've observed us at
last. Does she bring an air with her that
she's under control, or is it that she's lighter
and taller than we ?"

It was beyond question because she was
lighter and taller, and having been kept close-hauled

to the faint draught had made more
of it than we who carried It aft. Besides, we
were loaded down to our chain-plate bolts
with cargo, and the water and other stores
we had shipped at the Cape. Yet her
approach was so sluggish as to be imperceptible,
and I would not like to say that our
gradual drawing together was not as much
due to the current which, off this coast, runs
strong to the westward, setting us, who were
deep, faster towards her than it set her from
us, as it was also owing to the strange attraction
which brings becalmed vessels near to
each other — often indeed, to their having to
be towed clear by their boats.

Meanwhile, the utter silence on board the
stranger, the blackness in which her hull lay
hidden, the strangeness of her bracing-in her
yards to head up for us without any signal
being shown that she designed to fight us,
wrought such a fit of impatience in Mr. Hall,
that he swung his body from the backstay

he clutched In movements positively convulsive.


Are they all dead aboard ? On such a
night as this one should be able to hear the
least sound — the hauling taut of a tackle —
the rasping of the wheel-ropes !"

She surely doesn't hope to catch us
napping ?" said I.

God knows !" cried the mate. " What
would I give now for a bit of moon !"

If It's to be a fight It'll have to be a
shooting match for a spell, or wind must
come quickly," said I. '' But If she meant
mischief wouldn't she head to pass under
our stern, where she could rake us, rather
than steer to come broadside on ?"

Instead of responding, the mate sprang onto
the bulwark-rail, and in tones such as only
the practised and powerful lungs of a seaman
can fling, roared out —

Ho, the ship, ahoy!"

We listened with so fierce a strain of attention

that the very beating of our hearts rung
in our ears ; but not a sound came across the
water. Twice yet did Mr. Hall hail that
pallid fabric, shapeless as yet in the dark air,
but to no purpose. On this there was much
whispering among the men clustered about
the runs. Their voices came alone: in a
low, grumbling sound like the growling of
dogs, dulled by threats.

'' Silence, fore and aft I" cried the mate.
"We don't know what she is — but we
know what we are ! and. as Englishmen,
we surely have spirit enough for whatever
may come."

There was silence for some minutes after
these few words ; then the muttering broke
out afresh, but scattered, a group talking to
larboard, another on the forecastle, and so
forth.

Meanwhile the vessels, all insensibly, had
continued to draw closer and closer to each
other. A small clarification of the atmosphere

happening past the stranger, suffered a
dim disclosure of her canvas, whence I perceived
that she had nothing set above her
topgallant-sails, though it was impossible to
see whether she carried royal-masts, or indeed
whether the yards belonging to those masts
were crossed on them. Her hull had now
also stolen out into a pitch-black shadow, and
after gazing at it with painful intentness for
some moments, I was extravagantly astonished
to observe a kind of crawling and
flickering of light, resembling that which
burnt in the sea, stirring like glow-worms
along the vessel's side.

I was about to direct Mr. Hall's attention
to this thing, when he said in a subdued
voice, " Fenton, d'ye notice the faint shining
about her hull ? What, in God's name, can it
be?"

He had scarce uttered these words when a
sailor on the starboard side of our ship, whom
I recognised by the voice as one Ephraim

Jacobs, an elderly, sober, pious-minded seaman,
cried out with a sort of scream in his
notes —

"As I hope to be forgiven my sins for
Jesu's sake, yon's the ship that was curst
last century."

A CRUEL DISASTER BEFALLS ME.

The mere putting into words the suspicion
that had been troubling all our minds made
one man in action of the whole crew, like the
firing of forty pieces of ordnance in the same
instant. Whatever the sailors held they flung
down, and, in a bound, came to the waist on
the starboard side, where they stood, looking
at the ship and making, amid that silence,
the strangest noise that ever was heard with
their deep and fearful breathing.

"Great thunder!" broke in one of them,
presently, '' d'ye know what that shining
is, mates ? Why, it's the glow of timbers
that's been rotted by near two hundred years
of weather."

** Softly, Tom!" said another; "tis Hell
that owns her crew ; they have the malice
of devils, and they need but touch us tO'
founder us."

"Wait, and you shall see her melt!" exclaimed
one of the two foreigners who where
among our company of seamen. " If she is,
as I believe, she will be manned by the
ghosts of wicked men who have perished at
sea ; presently a bell shall strike, and she
must disappear !"

As this was said there was a commotion
forward, and the carpenter, borne by two
stout hands, was carried into the midst of the
crew, and propped up so that he might seethe
ship. I was as eager as any of the most
illiterate sailors on board to hear what he had
to say, and took a step the better to catch his
words. A whole minute went by whilst he
gazed ; so strained and anticipate were my
senses that the moments seemed as hours.
He then said, " Mates, yonder's the Death

Ship, right enough. Look hard, and you'll
mark the steeve of her bowsprit with the
round top at the end of It, and the spring of
her aft In a fashion more ancient than Is the
ages of any two of the oldest men aboard.
Note the after-rake of her mizzen-mast, and
how the heel of the fore-mast looks to step In
the fore-peak. That's the ship — born In 1650
Vanderdecken master — what I've often
heard tell of — raise my head, mates !"

And here, whether through pain or weakness
or horror, he fainted, but being laid
upon the deck, and some water thrown over
his face, he came to In a short while, and lay
trembling, refusing to speak or answer questions.


A slight thinning of the vapour that hid
the moon had enabled us to remark those
points In the ship the carpenter had named ;
and whilst he was being recovered from his
swoon, the moon looked down from a gulf in
the mist, but her light was still very tarnished

and dim, though blurred and distorted as washer
appearance, yet there instantly formed
round her the same halo or wan circle that
was visible before she was hidden. But her
apparition made a light that exquisitely
answered to those two lines of Shakespeare —

Therefore the moon, the governess of floods,
Pale in her anger washes all the air."

For such radiance as fell really seemed like a
cleansing of the atmosphere after the black
smother that had encompassed us, and now
we could all see the ship distinctly as she lay
on our quarter with her broadside somewhat
to us, her yards trimmed like our own, and
her sails hanging dead.

It was the solemnise sight that ever mortal.
eye beheld. The light left her black, so
there was no telling what hue she showed or
was painted. Her bows lay low in the water
after the old fashion, with head-boards curling
to her beak, that doubtless bore an ornament,
though we could not distinguish it. There

she rose like a hill, broken with the bulwarks
that defined her waist, quarter-deck and short
poop. This was as much as we could
discern of her hull. Her foremast stood
close to where the heel of her bowsprit came;
her mizzen-mast raked over her stern, and
upon it was a yard answering to the rig of a
felucca ; the clew of its sail came down clear
■of a huge lantern whose iron frame, for all
the glass in it was broke and gone, showed
like the skeleton of some monster on her
taffrail. It was a sight to terrify the stoutest
heart to see the creeping of thin, worm or
wire-like gleanings upon the side she showed
to us. I considered at first she was glossy
and that those lights were the reflection of
the phosphoric fires in the water under her ;
but it was soon made plain that this was not
so, as, though to be sure a greenish glare of
the true sea-flame would show against or near
her when she slightly leaned, as we did, to
the swell, this charnel-house or touch-wood

glimmer played all along her without regard
to the phosphorescence under her.

Now, ever since I was first going to
sea, I had, as I have said, believed In the
existence of the Spectre Ship, welch all
mariners I have sailed with feared to encounter
; but so many Imaginative stories
had come of her — some feigning, as the
carpenter's version showed, that she was a
death ship, filled with spectres who navigated
her ; others that she was a spectral bark,
laden with souls, against whom the gates of
Purgatory were closed ; others that she was
a vessel for ever beating against gales of
wind, sometimes appearing in a tempest that
surrounded her when the rest of the ocean
was smooth, sometimes rising from the
waves, sometimes floating among the clouds,
buffeting up there as though the masses of
insubstantial vapour where solid and massy
folds and acclivities ; I say I had heard so
many stories that they had ended in leaving

me with a belief of my own, which was that
the Phantom Ship — rightly so named — was
an airy Incorporeal thing — a vision to be
encountered but rarely In these parts, a sea-ghost
that had been too often beheld in the
course of years to be denied, and as truly a
spectre In Its way as any that may be read of
in Holy Writ, or that has stood at the bedsides
of men and women and delivered
messages from futurity.

This being my belief, then, though I was
mightily terrified by the ancient shape of the
ship and the mystery of her purpose, and the
darkness and silence that clothed her, I could
not believe that she was the true spectre that
the sailor dreads ; for, that she was as substantial
as our vessel — " a quarry of stout
spurs and knotted fangs " — was undeniable,
not more from her quiet, heaving motion
than from the dull sounds I had now and
again caught of the movement of her gear
aloft, such as the scraping of a rope in a

block, or the soft slap of a cloth against a
spar by the heave of the fabric setting some
light sail a-fanning.

"What think you of her, Fenton ?" said
Mr. Hall, speaking softly, but with much of
his excitement and uneasiness gone. '' Does
she resemble the craft that the master of the
snow told Captain Skevington he sighted
hereabouts ?"

'why, yes, I think so," said I; "but it
does not follow that she is the Phantom Ship.
The Plymouth hooker's yarn owed a good
deal to terror, and it would not lose in its
passage through the brain of a lunatic, as I
fear poor Skevington was."

She has a very solid look — she is a real
ship, but the like of her I have never seen,
save in old prints. ]\Iark those faint fiery
stripes and spirals upon her. I do not understand
it. The wood that yields such light
must be as rotten as tinder and porous as a
sponge. It could not swim."

VOL. I. K

By this time the mysterious ship had
floated out her whole length, unless it were
our vessel that had slewed and given us that
view of her. No light save the lambent
gleams on her sides was to be seen. We
could hear no voices. We could discern no
movement of figures or distinguish any outline
resembling a human shape upon her.
On a sudden, my eye was caught by an
illumination overhead that made a lustre
strong enough to enable me to see the face
of Mr. Hall. I looked up conceiving that
one of our crew had jumped aloft with a
lantern, and saw at our main yard-arm a
corpus sant or St. Elms's light, that shone
freely like a luminous bulb, poised a few
inches above the spar. Scarce had this been
kindled, and whilst it was paling the faces of
our seamen who stared at it, there suddenly
shone two bright meteors of a similar kind
upon the strange ship ; one on top of the
topgallant-masthead that was the full height

of the main spars, and one on the summit of a
mast that stood up from the round top at the
end of the bowsprit and that in olden times,
before it was discontinued, would have
been called the sprit-topmast. They had
something of the glory of stars ; their reflection
twisted like silver serpents in the dark
waters ; and as though they had been flambeaux
or lamps, they flung their spectral
glow upon the strangely-cut sails of the
vessel, upon her rigging and spars, suckling
all things to their starry colour, dimly illuminating
even the distant castle-like poop, showing
clearly the dark line of bulwarks, whilst a
deeper dye of blackness entered into the hull
from the shadow between the crispus wants on
high and their mirroring beneath.

Thanks be to God for the sight of those
lights !" exclaimed a deep voice, sounding out
among the men. " It's a saint's hand as
kindles them, I've feared ; and there'll be a
breeze with luck behind it presently,"

"See, Mr. Hall!" cried I, pointing; ''do
you observe the figures of men ? Look along
the line of the forecastle — one, two, three — I
count six there ; and look right aft on that
bit of a poop. Do you mark a couple of
shapes viewing us as if with folded arms ?"

'eyes!" He paused, staring, then added,
"Those lights are familiar enough to me,
I've seen them scores of times," speaking in
whispers, which trembled back to their
former notes of consternation, " but there's
something frig-htful about them now — and
yonder one," pointing to our yard-arm, "and
the sight they show. She's no natural ship,"
he said, pulling off his cap, and passing his
hand over his forehead. "Would to God a
breeze would come and part us."

Hail him again, sir!"

Hail him you, my throat is dry."

I walked right aft to bring me more
abreast of the silent motionless figures on the
stranger's poop, and jumping on to the rail

caught hold of the vang of the spanker-gaff
to steady myself, and putting a hand to my
mouth, roared out, "Ship ahoy! What ship
is that ?" and stopped breathless, so that I
seemed to hear the echoes of my own voice
among; the sails of the stranger.

"What ship is that?" now came back In a
deep, organ-like note, and the two figures
separated, one walking forward, and the
other stepping, as I had, on to the bulwark
over the quarter-gallery.

The Saracen, of London, bound to
Indian ports," I responded.

I will send a boat I" cried the man, in the
same deep-throated voice.

If you do, we'll fire into it!" screamed a
seaman on our deck. " Mates — Mr. Hall,
you see now what he is! Keep them off! —
keep them off!" at which there was a sudden
hurrying of feet, with many clicking sounds
of triggers sharply cocked, by which I knew
our men had armed themselves.

The corpus sant at our yard-arm vanished ;
in a few seconds it showed itself afresh midway
up the mainmast, making a wild Hght
all around it ; those on the stranger burned
steadily, and I believed a third had been
kindled on her till I saw it was a lantern
carried along the deck. There was a stillness
lasting some minutes. What they were
about we could not see ; anon came a creaking,
as of ropes travelling in blocks, then a
light splash ; the lantern dropped verily
down the ship's side, plainly grasped by a
man ; flashes of phosphorus broke out of the
water to the dip of oars, like fire clipped from
a flint. I felt a faint air blowing, but did not
heed it, being half-frenzied with the excitement
and fear raised in me by what I could
now see — thanks to the light of the St. Elms
fires, and the mystic rawlings of flames on
the vessel's sides. I saw a boat, square at
both ends, with the gunwale running out into
horns, rowed by two figures, whilst a third

Stood upright In the bows, holding high a
lighted lantern In one hand, and extending
his other arm In a posture of supplication.

At this Instant a yellow glare broke In a
noon-tide dazzle from our own ship's rail,
and the thunder of twenty muskets fired at
once fell upon my hearing. I started with
the violence of the shock breaking In upon
me, heedlessly let go the vang that I had
been grasping with my left hand, and fell
headlong overboard.

I AM RESCUED BV THE DEATH SHIP.

I ROSE to the surface from a deep plunge,
but being a very indifferent swimmer it was
as much as I could do — clothed as I was — to
keep myself afloat by battling with my hands.
I heard the rippling of the water about my
ears, and I felt a deep despair settle upon
my spirits, for I knew that the air that blew
would carry my ship away from me and that
I must speedily drown.

Indeed, to the first impulse of wind the
Saracen had moved and I could see her, a
great shadow, drawing away with the corpus
sant, that a minute before had sparkled on
her mainmast, now shining on her fore-topsail
yard-arm. I had not the least doubt

that, in the noise of the shooting, and amid
the general alarm excited by the approach of
the boat, neither the splash I had made in
striking the water nor my disappearance had
been noticed, and I remember thinking with
the swiftness peculiar to persons in my
situation — for as Cowper says —

He long survives who lives an hour
In ocean self-upheld "

I say I remember thinking that even if I
should be immediately missed it was most
unlikely the crew would suffer mr. Hall to
stop the ship and seek for me, for they would
be mad not to use the new wind and sweep
away from waters accurst by the presence of
what was undoubtedly the Death Ship,
whilst if even ?mr. Hall's persuasion should
prevail, yet long before that time I should
have sunk.

I struggled hard to keep myself afloat,
freely breaking the water in the hope that the
light and whiteness of it might be seen.

Four or five minutes thus passed and I was
feeling my legs growing weighty as lead,
when I noticed a light approach me. My eyes
being full of wet, I could see no more than
the light, what held or bore It being eclipsed
by the spikes or fibres that shot out of it ; as
you notice a candle frame when the sight is
damp. I could also hear the dip and trickle
of oars, and tried to shout ; but my brain was
giddy, my mind sinking Into a babbling state,
and in truth I was so exhausted, that but for
the sudden life darted into me by the sight of
the lamp, I am sure I should then and there
have clenched my hands above my head and
sunk.

The lantern was flashed full upon my face
and I was grasped by my hair. He who
seized me spoke, and I believed it was the
voice of one of the men in my watch, though
I did not catch a syllable of his speech.
After which I felt myself grasped under each
arm and lifted out of the water, whereupon I

no doubt fainted, for there is a blank between
this and what followed, though the interval
must have been very short.

When I opened my eyes, or rather when
my senses returned to me, I found myself
lying on my back, and the first thing I noticed
was the moon shining weakly amid thin
bodies of vapour which the wind had set in
motion and which sped under her in puffs like
the smoke of gunpowder after the discharge
of a cannon. I lay musing a little while,
conscious of nothing but the moon and some
dark stretches of sail hovering above me ;
but my mind gathering force, I saw by the
cut of the canvas that I was on board a
strange ship ; and then did I observe three
men standing near my feet watching me. A
great terror seized my heart. I sprang erect
with a loud cry of fear, and rushed to the
rail to see if the Saracen was near that I
might hail her, but was stayed in that by
being seized by the arm.

He who clutched me exclaimed in Dutch,
"What would you do? If you could swim
for a week you would not catch her."

I perfectly understood him, but made no
reply, did not even look at him, staring about
the sea for the Saracen in an anguish of mind
not to be expressed. Suddenly I caught
sight of the smudge of her, and perceived she
was heading away on her course ; she was out
on our starboard beam. I cast my eyes aloft,
and found the yards of the ship I was in
braced up to meet the wind on the larboard
tack, whence I knew that every instant was
widening the space between the two vessels.
On mastering this I could have dashed myself
down on the deck with grief and terror.
One of the group observing me as if I should
fall, extended his hand, but I shrunk back
with horror, and covered my face, whilst
deep hysteric sobs burst from my breast, for
now, without heeding any further appearances,
I knew that I was on board the

Phantom Ship, the Sea Spectre, dreaded cf
marines, a fabric accurst by God, in the
presence of men dead and yet alive, more
terrible in their supernatural existence, in
their clothing of flesh whose human mortality
had been rendered underlying by a fate that
shrunk up the soul in one to think of, than
had they been ghosts— essences through
which you might pass your hand as through
a moonbeam !

I stood awhile as though paralysed, but
was presently rallied by the chill of the night
wind striking through my streaming clothes.
A lantern was near where the three men
were grouped, no doubt the same that had
been carried in the boat, but the dim illumination
would have sufficed for no more than
to throw out the proportion of things within
its sphere, had it not been helped by the faint
moonlight and a corpses sant that shone with
the power of a planet close against the blocks
of the jeers of the mainland. 'Twas a

ghostly radiance to behold the men in, but I
found nerve now to survey them.

There were three, as I have said : one
very tall, above six feet, with a grey — almost
white — beard, that descended to his waist ;
the second was a broad, corpulent man, of
the true Dutch build without hair on his face ;
in the third man I could see nothing striking,
if it were not for a ruggedness of seafaring
aspect. I could not distinguish their apparel
beyond that the stout man wore boots to the
height of his knees, whereas the tall personage
was clad in black hose, shoes with
large buckles, and breeches terminating at
the knees ; their head-dresses were alike, a
sort of cap of skin, with flaps for the ears.

Do you speak Dutch ?" said the tallest of
the three, after eyeing me in silence whilst a
man could have counted a hundred. He it
was who had responded to my hail from the
Saracen, as my ear immediately detected —
now that I had my faculties — by the deep,

organ-like melodiousness and tremor of his
voice.

I answered " Yes."

"Why were your people afraid of us?
We intended no harm. We desired but a
little favour — a small quantity of tobacco,
of which we are short."

This speech I followed, though some of
the words, or the pronunciation of them,
were different from what I had been used
to hear at Rotterdam. He spoke imperiously,
with a hint even of passion, and,
rearing himself to his full stature, clasped
his hands behind him, and stared at me as
some Indian King might at a slave.

"Sir," said I, speaking brokenly, for I was
a slow hand at his tongue, and besides, the
chill of my clothes was now become a pain,
'first let me ask what ship is this, and who
are you and your men who have rescued me
from death ?"

"The name of this ship is the Brave,

he answered, in his deep, solemn voice.
"I, who command the vessel, am known
as Cornelius Vanderdecken ; the three seamen,
to whom you owe your life, are
Frederick Human, John de Bremen, and
this man," indicating the rough, uncouth
person who stood on his left, "the mate,
Herman Van Vogelaar."

I felt a sensation as of ice pressed to my
chest when he pronounced his own name,
yet, recollecting he had called his ship the
Braave, I asked, though 'twas wonderful he
could follow my utterance—

*' What port do you belong to ?"

'' Amsterdam."

"Where are you from ?"

Batavia."

I said, " When did you sail ?"

On the twenty-second of July in last
year ! By the glory of the Holy Trinity, but
it is dreary work ; see how the wind heads us
even yet!" He sighed deeply and glanced

aloft In a manner that suggested grievous
weariness.

'last year!" I thought, a sudden elation
expanding my soul and calming me as an
opiate might, *' if that be so why, then,
though this ship had made a prodigiously
long voyage of it from Java to these
parallels, there is nothing wildly out of
nature in such tardiness." Last year! Had
I caught the true signification of the words
he used ?

Pray, sir," said I, speaking in as firm a
voice as the shivers which chased me permitted,
"what might last year be .^"

The mate, \"an Vogelaar, growled out
some exclamation I could not catch, the
captain made a gesture with his hands, whilst
their burly companion said in thick, Dutch
accents, "It needs not salt water, but good,
strong liquor to take away a Hollander's
ram.

Last year!" exclaimed Vanderdecken, un-vol.

I. L

bending his haughty, imperious manner,
why, mynheer, what should be last year but

1653?"

WV Syn AL VERDOMD.

When he said this I felt like one in whom
there is suddenly wrought a dual action of
the brain ; where from one side, so to say,
there is darted into the mind thoughts utterly
illogical and insane, which the same side
marvels at, and seeks to reject, though if
the fit linger the whole intelligence may be
seized.

I recollect of seeking for confirmation of
the words of the man who styled himself
Vanderdecken, in the ship, and of noticing,
for the first time, that upon the planks of the
deck which were out of the reach of the
corpus sail, were the same crawling, elusive
fires, as of phosphorus, creeping and coming

and going upon a dark wall, which I had
observed on the vessel's sides. Several
figures of men moved forward. Close
beside me was a small gun of the kind
carried by ships in the beginning of the
last century, termed a light saker, and discharging
a six-pound ball. There were
three of these on the larboard side, and, in
the haze of the moonlight and the sheen of
the jelly-like star that shone with a pure,
pale gold over my head, I could discern
upon the bulwarks of the quarter-deck and
poop several swivels furnished with handles
for pointing them. I also observed a short
flight of steps conducting to the quarter-deck,
with two sets of a like kind leading to the
poop, the front of which was furnished with
a door and little window.

These matters I took in with a sweep of
the eye, for the light was confusing, a faint,
erroneous ray glancing from imperfect surfaces
and flinging half an image ; and then

an Indescribable fear possessing me again, I
looked In the direction where I had last
beheld the smudge made by the Saracen,
and, not seeing her, cried out wildly, In my
broken Dutch, 'sirs, for the love of God
follow my ship, and make some signals that
she may know I am here !"

Skipper," exclaimed the smooth-faced,
corpulent man, who proved to be the boatswain,
named Antony Jans, "after their
cowardly Inhumanity In firing upon a small
unarmed boat, and putting In peril the life
of our mate. Van Vogelaar, we should have
nothing more to do with her."

Henceforth this Englishman will know
that the Dutch are a merciful people," said
Van Vogelaar, scornfully. " Had our nationalities
been reversed, he would have been
left to drown as a tribute to the courage of
his comrades."

Whilst this was said, Vanderdecken continued
to regard me steadfastly and with great

Sternness, then on a sudden relaxing his
frown, he exclaimed In that wondrous voice
of his, which put a solemn music Into his
least utterance : "Come, you shiver with the
cold, and have the look of the drowned.
Jans, send Prins to me; sir, please to follow."

He motioned in a haughty manner towards
the poop and walked that way. One desperate
look I cast round the sea, and then
with a prayer to God that this experience
might prove some eclipse of my reason from
which my mind would float out bright afresh
ere long, I followed the great figure of the
captain, but with a step so faltering from
weakness and grief, that he, perceiving my
condition, took me by the elbow and supported
me up the ladder to the cabin under
the poop.

Whether It was this courtesy or owing to a
return of my manhood — and I trust the
reader will approve the candour with which I
have confessed my cowardice — whatever

might be the reason, I began now to look
about me with a growing curiosity. The interior
into which Captain \'anderdecken conducted
me, was of a dingy yellowish hue,
such as age might complexion delicate white
paint with. An oil lamp of a very beautiful,
elegant and rare pattern, furnished with eight
panes of glass, variously and all choicely
coloured with figures of birds, flowers and
the like, though the opening at the bottom
let the white light of the oil-flame fall fair onto
the table and the deck, swung by a thin
chain from a central beam. The cabin was
the width of the ship, and on its walls were
oval frames, dusky as old mahogany, each
one, as I suspected, holding a painting. Over
the door by which the cabin was entered was
a clock and near it hung a cage with a parrot
in it. Of ports I could see no remains, and
supposed that by day all the light that
entered streamed through the windows on
either side the door.

The deck was dark as with age. At the
after end there were two state cabins bulk-headed
off from the Hving room, each with
a door. The several colours of the lamp
caused it to cast a radiance like a rainbow,
and therefore it was hard to make sure of
objects amid such an intricacy of illumination ;
but, as I have said, the sides of the cabin were
a sickly dismal yellow, and the furniture in it
was formed of a very solid square table, with
legs marvellously carved, and a box beneath
it, two benches on either hand, and a black
high-backed chair — the back of withered
velvet, the wood framing it cut into many
devices — at the head or sternmost end of it.

All these things were matters to be quickly
noticed. The captain, first removing his cap,
pointed to a bench, and lifting his finger, with
a glance at the starboard cabin, said in a low
tone, " Sir, if you speak be it softly, if you
please," and then directed his eyes towards
the entrance from the deck, standing erect.

with one hand on the table, and manifestly
waiting for the person he had styled Prins to
arrive. A ruby-coloured lustre was upon his
face ; his waist down was in the white lamplight.
He had a most noble port, I thought,
such an elevation of the head, such disdainful
and determined erectness of figure, as made
his posture royal. There was not the least
hint in his face of the Dutch flatness and
insipidity of expression one is used to in those
industrious but phlegmatic people. His nose
was aquiline, the nostrils hidden by the
mustachios which mingled with his noble
Druidical beard. His forehead was square
and heavy, his hair was scanty, yet abundant
enough to conceal the skin of his head ; his
eyes were black, impassioned, relentless, and
a ruby star now shone in each which gave
them a forbidding and formidable expression
as they moved under the shadow of his
shaggy brows. He wore a coat of stout cloth
confined by buttons, and a belt round his

waist. This, with his small clothes which I
have described, formed a very puzzling
apparel, the like of which I had never seen.
There were no rents, nor darns nor patches
nothing to indicate that his attire was of
great age. Yet there was something in this
commanding person that caused me to know,
by feelings deeper than awe or even fear, by
instincts indeed not explicable, such as must
have urged in olden times the intelligence to
the recognition of those supernatural beings
you read of in Scripture, that he was not as I
was, as are other men who bear their natural
parts in the procession from the cradle to the
grave. The tremendous and shocking fears
of Captain Skevington recurred to me, and
methought as I gazed at the silent, majestic
seaman, that the late master of the Saracen
who, by his ending, had shown himself a
madman might, as had other insane persons
in their time, have struck in one of his finer
frenzies upon a horrible truth ; the mere

fear of which caused me to press my hands
to my eyes with a renewal of mental
anguish, and to entreat in a swift prayer
to that Being, whom he who stood before
me had defied, for power to collect my mind
and for quick deliverance from this awful
situation.

Not a syllable fell from the captain till the
arrival of Prins. a parched-faced, bearded
man, habited in a coarse woollen shirt,
trousers of the stuff we call fearnought, and
an old jacket. He made nothing of my
presence nor condition, scarce glancing at
me.

'get this Englishman a change of clothes,"
said the captain. " Take what may be needful
from my cabin. They will hang loose on
him but must serve till his own are dry.
Quick! you see he shivers."

All this was expressed in Dutch, but as I
have before said, of an antique character,
and therefore not quickly to be followed ;

whence I will not pretend that I give exactly
all that was spoken, though the substance of
it is accurately reported.

The man styled Prins went to the larboard
cabin at the end, whilst the captain, going to
the table, pulled from under it a great
drawer, which I had taken to be a chest,
from which he lifted a silver goblet and a
strangely-fashioned stone bottle.

Drink, sir," he exclaimed, with a certain
arrogant impetuosity in his way of pouring

out the liquor and extending the goblet.

'Twas neat brandy, and the dose a large
mouthful ; I tossed down the whole of it, and
placed the goblet, that was very heavy and
sweetly chased, on the table with a bow of
thanks.

"That will put fire into your blood," said
he, returning the cup and bottle to the
drawer, and then folding his arms and
looking at me under his contracted brows,
with his back to the lantern whilst he leaned

against the table. "Are you fresh from your
country ?"

I told him that we had sailed in April
from the Thames, and had lately come out
of Table Bay.

"Is there peace between your nation and
mine .■^" he inquired, speaking softly, as
though he feared to awaken some sleeper,
though, let his utterance be what it would,
'twas always melodious and rich.

I answered, '' No; it grieves me to say it,
but our countries are still at war. I will not
pretend, sir, that Great Britain has acted
with good faith towards the Batavia Republic
; their High Mightiness resent the
infraction of treaties ; they protest against the
manner in which the island of St. Ecstatic
was devastated ; they hope to recover the
Cape of Good Hope, and likewise their possessions
in the Indies, more particularly their
great Coromandel factory."

Mere courtesy would have taught me

to Speak as soothingly as possible of such
things, though, but for the brandy, I doubt
if my teeth would not have chattered too
boisterously for the utterance of even the
few words I delivered. In honest truth, I
felt an unspeakable awe and fear in addressing
this man, who surveyed me with the
severest, most scornful gaze imaginable from
the height of his reveal stature.

"Of what are you speaking ?" he exclaimed,
after a frowning stare of amazement ; then
waved his hand with a gesture half of pity,
half of disdain. "You have been perilously
close to death," he continued, "and this idle
babble will settle into good sense when you
have shifted and slept." He smiled contemptuously
with a half look around, as
though he sought another of his own
kind to address, and said as one thinking
aloud, "If Tromp and Evertzens and De
Witt and De Ruyter have not yet swept
them off the seas 'tis only because they

have not had time to complete the easy
task!"

As he said this the clock over the door
struck two. The chimes had a hollow,
cathedral-like sound, as though indeed it
was the clock of a cathedral striking in the
distance. Glancing at the direction whence
these notes issued, I was just in time to
witness the acting of an extraordinary piece
of mechanism, that is to say, there arose
to the top of the clock-case, that was of some
species of metal — the dial plate of blue enamel
protected with horn instead of glass — there
arose, I sav, the fissure of a skeleton, imitated
to the life, holding in one hand an hour-glass
on which he turned his eyeless sockets by a
movement of the head, whilst with the other
hand he grasped a lance or spear that, as I
afterwards perceived, he flourished to every
stroke of the clock-bell, as though he pierced
something prostrate at his feet. The figure
shrank into the inside of the clock when the

chimes were over. As If to complete the
bewilderment under which I laboured, scarce
had the second chime of the clock rung Its
last vibration, when a harsh voice croaked
out In Dutch —

"Ths ^^bh al DcrDomD!"

I started, and cried out Involuntarily and
faintly, "My God!"

'rit was the parrot that spoke," said
Captain Vanderdecken, with a softening of
his looks, though he did not smile. " TIs the
only sentence she seems able to pronounce.
It was all she could say when I bought her."

Have you had her long, sir?" I Inquired,
feeling as though I lay dreaming.

I bought her from a Chinaman of
Batavia two days before we sailed as a gift
for my eldest daughter "

Here he was Interrupted by the arrival of
Prins. 'the clothes are ready, skipper,"
said he.

On this Vanderdecken, motioning me to

be silent — a piece of behaviour that was as
puzzling as all other things — conducted me
to the cabin from which Prins had emerged,
and viewing the clothes upon the bed,
said, " Yes. they will do ; wear them,
mynheer, till yours have been dried. Leave
this door on the hook, you will then get
light enough for your purpose from yonder
lamp."

The dress consisted of warm knitted
stockings, breeches of an old pattern, and a
coat with a great skirt embellished with metal
buttons, several of which were missing, and
the remains of some gold lace upon the cuffs.
In addition, there was a clean linen shirt, and
a pair of South American hide boots, fawn-coloured.
'Twas like clothing myself for a
masquerade to dress in such things, but for
all that I was mighty pleased and grateful to
escape from my own soaked attire, which by
keeping the surface of the body cold prohibited
my nerves from regaining their

VOL. I. M

customary tone. I went to work nimbly,
observing that Captain Vanderdecken waited
for me, and was soon shifted, but not before
I had viewed the cabin, which I found to be
spacious enough. The bed was curious,
being what we term a four-poster, the upper
ends of the posts cheated to the celHng,
whilst the lower legs were In the form of dolphins,
and had one time been gilt with gold.
There were curtains to it of faded green silk
as I judged — ragged in places. There were
lockers, a small table, on which lay a fore-staff,
or cross-staff as It was often called, a
rude ancient instrument used for measuring
the altitude of the sun before the introduction
of Hadley's quadrant, and formed of a wooden
staff, having a scale of degrees and parts of
degrees marked upon it, and cross-pieces
which could be moved along It. By it stood
a sand-glass for turning to tell the time by.
Against the bulkhead that separated this
from the adjoining cabin were hung two obeyed

mirrors, the frames whereof had been
gilt, also four small paintings in oak-coloured
borders richly beaded. I could see that they
were portraits of females, dim, the hues
being faded. The ceiling of this cabin
showed traces of having been, once on
a time, very handsomely painted with the
hand.

Other things I noticed were a copper
speaking-trumpet and an ancient perspective
;glass — such as poets of Vanderdecken's time
would style an optic tube — very weighty,
and formed of two tubes. This thing stood
son brackets, under which hung a watch, of as
true a sphere as an orange, and of the size of
one.

Indeed, look where you would, you could
not fail to guess how stout and noble a
ship this Braave, as her captain named her,
must have been in those distant years which
witnessed her birth.

My costume made me feel ridiculous

enough, for, whereas the boots might have
belonged to a period when vShelvocke and
Clipperton were plundering the Spaniards in
the south seas, the coat was of a fashion of
about thirty years past, whilst the breeches
were such as merchant captains and mates
wore when I was first going to sea. However,
being changed and dry, I stepped forth,
bearing my wet clothes with me, but they
were immediately taken from me by Prins,
who had been standing near the door unperceived
by me. On my appearing, Captain
Vanderdecken rose from the chair at the
head of the table, but seemed to find
nothing in my dress to amuse him. The
vari-coloured light was extremely confusing,
and it was with the utmost pains that I
could discern the expression of his face, but,
so far as I made out, it was one of extreme
melancholy, touched with lights and shades
by his moods, which yet left the prevailing
character unchanged. Indeed, the dreadful

fancies of Captain Skevington smote me
fiercely once again, for, as I live to say it.
the countenance of this tall and haughty seaman
did suggest to me the melancholy you
notice on the face of the dead — meaningless
as that look in them may be — but in his case
irradiated by the tints and expressions of
vitality, insomuch that I fully felt the force
of the remark the master of the Plymouth
snow had made to Captain Skevington touching
the man he had seen on board the Death
Ship, namely, that he was a corpse artificially
animated and most terrible to behold for his
suggestions of death-incline.

Will you go to rest ?" said he.

I am willing to do whatever you desire,"
said I. '* Your kindness is great and I thank
you for it."

"Ay," he replied, 'spite of the war I'd
liefer serve an Englishman than one of anv

cither

country. The old and the voune

&

Commonwealths should be friends. On

either hand there are mighty hearts, you in
your Lakes, your Rescues, your Monks ;
we in our Van Tromp, whom the King of
Denmark, to my great joy before I sailed,
honourably justified to the people of Holland,
and in Van Galen, Ruyter, with other skilled
and lion-hearted men, whom I shall glory in
greeting on my return."

He seemed to reflect a moment, and suddenly
cried, with a passionate sparkle in his
eyes, " But 'twas cowardly in your captain to
order his men to fire upon our boat. What
did we seek ? Such tobacco as you could
have spared, which we were willing to purchase.
By the vengeance of Heaven, 'twas a
deed unworthy of Englishmen."

I did not dare explain the true cause, and
said, gently, '' Sir, our captain lay dead in his
cabin. The men, missing the chief, fell into a
panic at the sight of this ship, for she showed
large in the dusk, and we feared you meant
to lay us aboard."

** Enough !" he exclaimed, Imperiously.
*' Follow me to your cabin."

He led the way on to the deck and we
descended the quarter-deck ladder.

MY FIRST NIGHT IN THE DEATH SHIP.

I HAD been in too great a confusion of mind
to heed the movements of the ship whilst I
was under cover, but on emerging I now
noticed that it had come on to blow very
fresh. The vessel under larboard tacks — I
could not see what canvas she carried — lay
along very much, being light and tall, and
rolled with peculiar clumsiness in the hollows.
I caught sight of the water over the weather-rail,
and judged with the eye of a seaman
that what progress she was making was
wholly leeway ; so that we were being blown
dead to the eastward, without probably
*' reaching," as it is termed, by so much as
half-a-knot an hour. The moon was now

deep in the west and showing a very wan
and stormy disk. North west, where the land
lay, the sea looked to rise into a fluid blackness
of thunder-clouds, wherefrom even as I
glanced that way there fell a red gash of
lightning. There was a heavy sound of
seething and bombarding billows all about
us, and the whole picture had a wildness
past language, what with the scarlet glare
of the northern levin-brands and the ghastly
tempestuous paleness of the westering moon
and a dingy faintness owing its existence to
I know not what, if it were not the light of
the foaming multitudinous surge reflected
upon the sooty bosoms of the lowering
clouds over our stern.

Captain \^anderdecken stood for a moment
looking round upon this warring scene, and
flung up his arms towards the moon with a
passionate savage gesture, and then strode
to a narrow hatch betwixt the limits of
the quarter-deck and the mainmast, down

which he went, first turning to see If I
followed. I now found myself In a kind
of 'tween-decks, with two cabins on either
hand, In the doorway of the fore one, on
the starboard side, stood the man Prins,
holding a small lantern.

*' This, sir," said Vanderdecken, pointing
to the cabin, "must serve you for a sleeping
room ; it has not the comfort of an Inn, but
'tis easy to see you are a sailor, and, therefore,
one to whom a plank will often be a
soft couch. In any case, here is accommodation
warmer than the bottom of the ocean."

With a cold and condescending salute he
withdrew. Prins hung the lantern on to a
rail beside the door, and said he would return
for It shortly. I wanted to ask the man some
questions about the ship and her commander,
but there was something about him so scaring
and odd that I could not summon up heart to
address him. He appeared as one in whom
all qualities of the soul are dead, acting, in

sooth, like a sleep-walker, giving me not
the least heed whatever, and going about
his business as mechanically as the skeleton
in the cabin clock rose and darted his lance
to the chimes of the bell.

The compartment in which I was to sleep
was empty of all furniture saving a locker
that served as a seat as well as a box, and
a wooden sleeping-place, formed of planks,
secured to the side, in which, in lieu of a
mattress, were a couple of stout blankets,
tolerably new, and a sailor's bag, filled with
straw, for a pillow. I was wearied to the
bone, yet not sleepy, and lay me down in my
strange clothes without so much as removing
my boots, and in a few minutes Prins arrived
and took away the light, and there I was in
pitch darkness.

And yet I should not say this, for, though
to be sure no sensible reflection penetrated
the blackness, yet when the lamp was removed
and my eyes had lost the glare of it, I

beheld certain faint rawlings and swarming
of phosphoric Hght upon the beams and
bulkheads, such as were noticeable upon the
outside of the ship, only not so strong. I
likewise observed a cold and ancient smell,
such as I recollect once catching the breath
of in the hold of a ship that had been built in
1702 and which people in the year 1791 or
thereabouts viewed as a curiosity. Otherwise
there was nothing else remarkable. Whatever
this vessel might be, her motion on the
seas was as natural as that of the Saracen,
only that her wallowing was more ponderous
and ungainly. Yet, merciful Heaven! how
did every bulkhead groan, how did every
timber complain, how did every treenail cry
aloud ! The noise of the labouring was truly
appalling ; the creaking, straining, jarring, as
though the whole fabric were being dashed
to pieces. I had not immediately noticed
this when I followed Captain Vanderdecken
below, but it grew upon my ears as I lay in

the blackness. Yet they were natural sounds,
and as such they afforded a sort of relief to
my strained brain and nervous, yea, and
affrighted imagination. The stillness of a
dead calm would have maddened me, I truly
believe. Phantasms and other horrors of my
fancy, rendered delirious by the situation into
which I had been plunged, would have played
their parts upon that stage of blackness,
hideous with the vault-like stirring of the
glow of rotted timber, to the destruction of
my intellect, but for the homely thunder of
the sea without and the crazy echoes within.
I asked myself what ship was this ? That
she had a supernatural life, that he who
styled himself Vanderdecken — which tradition
reported was the name of the master of the
Phantom Ship, though it has been averred
that his real name was Bernard Fokke — I
say that he and the others I had seen, more
particularly the man Prins, had something
goblin-like about them, something that carried

them far out of the ranofe of our common
humanity, spite of the majestic port, the
noble presence, the thrilling tones, Hke the
music of distant summer thunder, of the commander,
I could no more question than the
beating of my own heart as I lay a-thinking.
I knew by what I had heard and viewed
already, even In the brief hours packed full of
consternation, during which I had been on
her, that I was aboard of the Flying Dutchman,
the Phantom Ship, the Death Ship, the
Sea Spectre, as she has variously been
termed.

Yet there was so much to puzzle me that I
was fit to lapse Into Idiocy. If \"anderdecken
had sailed from Batavia In 1653, why did he
speak of It as last year ? If the Death Ship
was a ghostly object. Impalpable, an essence
only as is a spirit, why was this vessel so
substantial that, heavily as she resounded
with the crazy echoes of her material state,
no first-rate could hold a stouter conflict with

the seas ? If she had been battling off the
Agulhas for one hundred and forty-three
years, how came she to have oil and waste for
her lanterns, clothes such as I wore, such as
the men I had seen were habited in, brandy,
blankets almost new like those I lay on,
and other stores ; for I might be sure, from
the jar of brandy the captain had produced,
that the crew ate and drank as all men do
and must !

These and other points I could not reconcile
to my conviction that the ship I was
aboard of was the craft dreaded by all men
because of the great God's ban upon her and
the misfortunes she brought to others with
the very winds which filled her canvas. I
would have given all I owned — though, alack!
that would have been small enough if I lost
what belonged to me in the Saracen — for
leave to keep the deck, but I did not venture
for fear of incurring the displeasure of .
So for several hours did 1 lay

broad awake In my black dungeon of a cabin,
watching the loathsome, ghostly phosphoric
glow all about me, and listening to the
bellowing of the wind that had grown into
a storm, and marking the furious rolling of
the ship, whose wild inner creaking put a
note of frenzy into the thunder of the gale ;
but never once hearing the sound ol a
human call nor the echo of a man's tread,
I then fell asleep, but not before the dawn
hsd broken, as I might tell by the radiance,
which was little better than an ashen twilight,
that streamed down the hatch and showed in
an open space above the cabin door.

I INSPECT THE FLYING DUTCHMAN.

I HAD scarcely fully woke up, when the man
Prins opened the cabin door and peered In,
and perceiving me to be awake, he entered
bearing a metal pitcher of water, an earthenware
dish, and a rough cloth for drying the
skin. He put down the dish so that It could
not slide, for the ship was rolling very heavily,
and then poured water Into It, and said, ashe
was In the act of withdrawing with the
pitcher, "The skipper Is on the poop."

I answered by asking him for my clothes.
He shook his bearded, parchment-coloured
face and said: "They are still sodden," and
Immediately went out.

I might have guessed they could not be

VOL. I. N

dry, but I presented so hideous a figure in
the apparel that had been lent to me that
I should have been glad to resume my own
coat and breeches, wet or no wet ; but there
was no help for it. I rose and plunged my
face in the cold water, used my fingers for a
comb, which sufficed, since I commonly wore
my hair rough, having much of it and hating
a tye, and putting on my hat that had held to
my head in the water, and that had not been
taken from me to dry, I stepped out of the
cabin, climbed the steps that led through the
hatch, and gained what was in former times
termed the upper deck ; for let me make you
understand me by explaining that, beginning
right aft, first there was a poop-deck elevated
above the quarter-deck, which in its turn
was raised above the upper-deck, along which
you walked till you arrived at the forecastle
that went flush or level to the bows and was
fortified by tall, stout bulwarks, with ports for
fore-chasers.

For some considerable while I stood near
the hatch gazing about me, as this was my
first view of the ship by daylight. Right
opposite soared the mainmast, an immensely
thick "made" spar, weightier than we should
now think of using for a craft twice this
vessel's size ; the top was a large circular
platform, protected by a fence-work half as
tall as a man, looped for the projection of
pieces such as culverin, matchlocks and the
like. Under the top hung the mainland,
the sail was reefed and the yard had been
lowered, and it lay at an angle that made me
understand that but little was to be done with
this ship on a bowline. The shrouds, which
were very stout, though scarce one of them
was of the thickness of another, came down
over the side to the channels there, and the
ratlines were all in their places, only that
here again there was great inequality in the
various sizes of the stuff used. There were
iron hoops round the masts, all of them rusty,

cankered, and some of them nearly eaten up.
I looked at the coaming of the hatch, and
observing a splinter, put my hand to It and
found the wood so rotten that methought It
would powder, and I turned the piece about
betwixt my thumb and forefinger, but the
miraculous qualities of the accursed fabric
were In It and iron could not have been more
stubborn to my pinching. The guns, which
I had on the previous night recognised as an
ancient kind of ordnance called sakers, were
as rusty and eaten Into as the mast-hoops.

How am I. who have no paint but Ink, no
brush but a goose-quill, to convey to you an
Idea of the moodiness and rottenness of this
ship ? 'Twas easy to guess why she glowed
at night, when you saw the rail of her bulwarks
and marked a rugged unevenness such
as I might liken to the jagged edge you
observe through a telescope In the moon on
the side where the earth's shadow Is, as
though time had teeth, indeed, and was forever

gnawing at these banned and sea-tossed
timbers as rats at a floor.

There lav a great hatchway in front of the
mainmast covered with tarpaulin, handsomely
mended in a score of places. These
matters I took in with a sailor s quickness ;
also that the ship was blowing away to leeward
under reefed courses, above which no
canvas was shown ; also that the foresail and
mainsail had a very dingy, collier-like look,
and had manifestly been patched and repaired
many times over, though whether
their capacity of standing to a gale was due
to the cloth being stout and substantial still,
or because of their endearment, I could not
tell, nor did I like to conjecture. There was
no one to be seen, but, as I afterwards found
out, that was because the crew were at breakfast
below.

I ascended the quarter-deck, and, perceiving
Vanderdecken standing on the poop,
went up to him, touching my hat as a sailor's

salute ; but the coat I was rigged out in was
so outrageously clumsy and ample, that the
wind, which blew very hard indeed, filling
and distending the skirts of it, was within an
ace of upsetting me, but, happily, a lurch of
the ship swept me towards a mizzen backstay,
to which I contrived to cling until I
had recovered my breath and the surprise I
was under. There was a small house in the
middle of this poop, about ten feet from
where the head of the tiller would come
when amidships, possibly designed for the
convenience of the captain and officers for
making their calculations when in narrow
waters, and for the storing of their marine
instruments, flags and the like. Be that as
it may, Captain Vanderdecken beckoned
me to it, and under the lee of it the
shelter was such as to enable us to easily
converse.

I looked at him as closely as I durst. His
eyes were extraordinarily piercing and paso



senate, with the cruel brilliance in them such
as may be noticed in the insane ; the lower
part of his face was hidden in hair, but the
skin of as much of it as was visible, for his
cap was dragged low down upon his brows,
was pale, of a haggard sallowness. expressed
best in paintings of the dead where time has
produced the original whiteness of the pigment.
It was impossible that I should have
observed this in him in the mani-coloured
lamplight of the preceding night. Yet did
not his graveyard complexion detract from
the majesty and imperiousness of his mien
and port. I could readily conceive that the
defiance of his heart would be hell-like in
obstinacy, and that here was a man whose
pride and passions would qualify him for a
foremost place among the most daring of
those fallen spirits of whom our glorious poet
has written.

He was habited as when I first saw him.
We stood together against this deck-house,

and whilst he remained silent for some
moments, meanwhile keeping his eyes fixed
on me, my gaze went from him to the ship
and the sea around us. It was a thick,
leaden, angry morning ; such weather as we
had had a dose of in that storm I wrote about,
and of which forerunners might have been
found on the preceding night in the lightning
in the north-west and in the halo that girdled
the moon. The wind was west-north-west;
the seas had the height and weight you find
in that vast ocean, amid whose hollows we
were driving ; 'twas all greyness and a flying
of spumy rain and a heavy roaring coming
from the head of every sea as it arched its
summit for the thunderous downwards rush
that filled the valley at its foot with a boiling
of white water. The sky was a hard leaden
blankness ; and whenever there came a break
of faintness amid the seemingly starless ceiling
of vapour, you would see the scud, thin and
brown, like draining of smoke from a

chimney-pot, flying with incredible velocity
to the east and south.

But it was the sight of the ancient ship
that rendered the warring ocean so strange a
scene that, had I never before witnessed a
storm at sea, I could not have wondered
more at what I saw. She was lying to under
her reefed fore and mainsail, surging dead
to leeward on every scent of the billows, and
travelling the faster for the great height of
side she showed. From time to time a sea
would strike her with a severe shock upon
the bow or the waist, and often curl over ina
mighty hissing and seething, though the
wet quickly poured away overboard through
the ports. Through the skeleton-iron frame
of what had once been a great poop lantern,
the blast yelled like an imprisoned maniac,
and shook the metal with a sound as of
clanking chains. The vessel had her topsail
and topgallant-yards aloft, and the sails lay
furled upon them. The height of her poop,

the depth of her waist, the roundness of her
great bulwarks bows, her beak, which I
could just catch a glimpse of under her bowsprit,
the unequal thickness of the rigging,
the indescribable appearance of the sails, the
hugeness of the blocks aloft ; the whole
plunging and rolling amidst the frothing
troughs, whilst at the long tiller, the end
ornamented with a lion's head, stood a
strangely-attired, muffled-up man, grasping a
rope wound round the tiller-head, presented
such a picture of olden times, made as living
as the current moment by the action of the
seas, the vitality of the persons I gazed at,
the solid substantiality of the aged fabric
itself, that the memory of it often chills
my brain with fear that I am crazed, and
that my experience is but a black and
melancholy fancy victorious over my understanding.


And I say would to Heaven this were so,
for better that rriy soul should be racked by

a diseased and disordered mind than that
I should have suffered the heart-breaking
sorrow, the irreparable loss it is my present
business to relate in this narrative.

The captain, having inspected me narrowly,
asked me how I had slept. I answered
"Well," for I was now resolved to present a
composed front to this man and his mates, be
they and their ship what they would. I had
given my nerves play and it was about time
I recollected I was an Englishman and a
sailor.

All vessels but mine," said he, in his
thrilling, organ-like voice, glancing about
him with a scowl, "catch the luck of the
wind. Had the weather lingered as it was
for another three days, we should have
had Agulhas on the beam and the ship's
head north-west. Tis bitter hard, these
encounters of storms, when a few hours
of fair wind would blow us round the
Cape."

He clenched his hands fiercely, and shot a
fiery glance at the windward horizon.

Just then the man styled Herman Van
Vogelaar, the mate, arrived, and without
taking the least notice of me, said something
to the captain, but what, I did not
catch ; it doubtless referred to some job he
had been sent forward to see to. I was
greatly struck by the rugged, weather-beaten
look of this man ; his face in the daylight
discovered a mere surface of knobs, and
warts, and wrinkles, with a nose the shape
of one end of a plantain that has been cut
in two, and little, misty eyes, deep in their
holes, and surrounded by yellow lashes ; his
dress was that of a sailor of my own time.
But what affected and impressed me even
more than did the utter indifference manifested
towards my presence by him and by
the helmsman — as though, indeed, 1 was as
invisible as the wind — was the pallor underlying
the lineaments of this mate. Had I

been asked what would be the complexion of
men dug up from their graves after lying
there, I should have pointed to the countenances
of Vanderdecken and Van Vogelaar —
yes, and to Prins and the seaman who
steered. It was, in truth, as though Captain
Skevington had hit the frightful reality in his
dark and dreadful ideas touching the crew
of this ship being men who presented the
aspect they would have offered at the time of
their death, and who, wearing that deathbed
appearance, were doomed to complete
the sentence passed upon them — no longer
"pensioners on the bounty of an hour," as the
poet Young terms us mortals, but wretches,
rendered supernatural by the impiety of that
fierce but noble figure, whose falcon-flashing
eye looked curses at the gale whilst I
watched him.

The mate left us and went to the helmsman,
by whose side he stood as if conning the ship.
The captain showed no heed of my presence

for a minute or two ; when, glancing at me,
he said, " 'TIs fortunate you speak Dutch,
though your pronunciation has a strange
sound. For my part, I just know enough
of your tongue to hail a ship and to say, ' I
will send a boat.' Where did you learn my
language ?"

'' I picked It up during several voyages I
made to Rotterdam," I replied.

Do you know Amsterdam ?"

No, sir," said I.

He mused a little, and then said, '* They
will think me lost or sunk by the guns of the
enemy. Add the long and tedious voyage
out to the months which have passed since
last July !" he sighed deeply.

When did you sail from Amsterdam, sir ?''
I inquired, for I was as particular as he to say
** mynheer."

On the First of November," he answered.

"In what year?" said I.

He cried out, fiercely, 'rare your senses

Still overboard that you repeat that question ?
Certainly last year — when else ?"

I looked down upon the deck.

I have reason to remember my passage
through the narrow seas," continued he,
speaking In a softened voice, as though his
sense of courtesy upbraided him. " I sighted
the squadron of your Admiral Ayscue and a
frigate hauled out In chase of me, but the
Braave was too fleet for her, and at dusk
we had sunk the Englishman to his lower
yards!"

As he said this I felt yet again the chill of
a dread I had hoped to vanquish strike upon
my senses like the air of a vault upon the
face. It was Impossible that I could now
miss seeing how It was. If this man, together
with his crew, were not endevIUed, as Captain
Skevlngton had surmised, yet it was certain
that life was terminated in him with the Curse
his wickedness had called down upon his ship
and her wretched crew. Existence had come

to a Stand In his brain ; with him It was forever
the year of our Lord 1653 ; time had
been drowned In the eternity of the punishment
that had come upon him !

I Hated my startled eyes to Vanderdecken's
face and convulsively clasped my hands,
whilst I thought of the mighty chapter of
history which had been written since his day,
and of the ashes of events prodigious in their
time, and in memory still, which covered —
as do the lava and scoriae the rocks of some
volcanic-created Island — the years from the
hour of his doom down to the moment of our
meeting. The peace of 1654 — the later war
of 1665 — Ruyter at Sheerness and Chatham
and In the Hope — a stadtholder of Wanders
country becoming a King of England
the peace of Ryswick — Malplaquet — the
semi-gallican founding of the Batavia Republic
— with how much more that my
memory did not carry ? All as non-existent
to this man at my side as to any human

creature who had died at the hour when the
Death Ship sailed on her last passage home
from the island of Java!

VOL. I.

o

VANDERDECKEN SHOWS ME HIS PRESENT
FOR LITTLE Margaret.

At this moment Prins stepped on to the
poop, and informed the captain that breakfast
was ready.

'' Sir," said Vanderdecken to me, with a
courtesy that I guessed to be as capricious
as his passion, " you will have feared I meant
to starve you."

'' No, mynheer," I replied.

"You will find our fare poor," he continued.
'' Be pleased to follow me."

*' Sir," said I, "forgive me if I detain you
for an instant. I am too sensible of your
kindness not to desire that you will enable
me to merit it by serving you in the navigation

of this ship in any capacity you choose
to name, until we meet with a vessel that
shall rid you of my presence."

You appear to have but a poor opinion
of us Dutch," said he, still speaking with
courtesy; "be pleased to know that a
Hollander is never happier than in relieving
distress. But come, sir, the shelter of the
cabin will be grateful to you after this stormy
deck."

I said no more, and gathering the flapping
skirts of the coat on me to my side, that
the gale might not sweep me off my legs, I
followed him into the cabin under the poop,
marvelling, as I went, at the miracle wrought
on behalf of this ship, that her hold should
still yield provisions and water for her crew
after a century-and-a-half of use.

Now you will have deemed by this time
that I had supped full enough of surprises.
But conceive of my astonishment on entering
the cabin, that was less darksome than I

should have conceived it, on seeing a girl of
from eighteen to twenty years of age, seated
at the table on the right hand of the captain's
chair !

I came to a stand, struck motionless with
astonishment ; whilst she, uttering an exclamation
of surprise, hastily rose and stood staring
at me, leaning with her right hand on the
table to steady herself It was as certain that
she had been as ignorant of my presence onboard
as I, to this instant, of her existence.
The thought that instantly flashed upon me
was that she was Vanderdecken's daughter,
that the Curse that had fallen on the ship
included her, as it had all others of the vessel's
miserable company of men, and that in consonance
with Captain Skevington's mad but
astonishing theory, touching the people of this
Death Ship, she discovered the appearance
she would have presented at the hour of her
death, though vitalised in that aspect by the
sentence that kept the Braave afloat and her

people quick and sentient. I was the more
willing to suppose this by her apparel, which
was of the kind I had seen in old Dutch
paintings at Rotterdam, for it consisted of a
black velvet jacket, very beautifully fitting
her figure, trimmed with fur and enriched
with many small golden buttons ; a green silk
gown, plain and very full, as though made fora
bigger woman. There was a rope of pearls
round her neck, and I spied a diamond of
great splendour blazing on the forefinger of
the hand on which she leaned. She wore
small red shoes and her hair was undressed.
Observation and the power of comprehending
what one sees are rapid, otherwise it
would have been impossible for me to have
mastered the details I have set before you in
the short time that intervened between my
entering the cabin and seating myself at the
table. Yet, short as that time was, it enabled
me to witness in this girl such sweetness,
fairness and loveliness of face as I vow no

man could conceive the truth of who had not

beheld It with his own eyes. 'Tis an old

poet who writes of " the still harmony, whose

diapason lies within a brow," and of the

** sweet silent rhetorick of persuading eyes,"

and another more delicately choice yet infancy,

of

The dainties touch,
The tender flesh, the colour bright, and such
As Parian see in marble, skin more fair.
More glorious head and far more glorious hair ;
Eyes full of grace and quickness, purer roses "

but of this beauty, shining sun-like in that
labouring ancient cabin, gazing at me half-wistful,
half-amazed, with an inclined posture
of her form as though she would on a sudden
race to greet me, what could the noblest poet
of them all sing, only to tell of the soft violet
of her eyes, of her hair of dusky gold, self-luminous
as though the gilding light of a
ruddy beam of sunset lingered amid the thick
abundant tresses heedlessly knotted with a
riband a little lower than the line of the

ears, thence falling in a bright loose shower
down her back, whilst over her forehead,
white as though wrought out of the sea foam,
the gilded curls were gathered in a shadow
only a little darker than amber.

All this I saw and more yet, for whilst I
stood looking at her the mate of the ship,
Van Vogelaar, arrived, and both he and the
captain, and the man Prins, turning their
faces towards me, the warmth, the life of
her skin, the living reality of her surprise,
the redness of her lips, the diamond glance
of her eyes, were so defined by the paleness,
the deathly hue, of the flesh of the men's
skin, that the fear that she was of this
doomed company fell from me, and I knew
that I was face to face with one that was
mortal like myself.

The captain pointed to the bench on his
left hand. I approached the table, giving
the girl a low bow before sitting. She
curtsied and resumed her seat, but all the

while looking at me with an astonishment that
greatly heightened her beauty ; nor could I
fall to see by the slight, but visible changes
in the expression of her mouth, that my
presence was putting a pleasure in her that
grew as perception of my actuality sharpened
in her mind.

A coarse, but clean cloth, that was a kind
of duck or drill, covered the table, and upon
it were a couple of dishes of cold meat, a
dish of dried fish, another of dried plantains,
a jar of marmalade, and a plate of a singular
sort of cakes — yellow and heavy — resembling
the crumb of newly-baked bread. These
things were kept in their places by a rude
framework of wood set upon the table and
lashed to it underneath. Before each person
there stood a silver cup — one of one design
and size, another of another ; also an earthen
plate, of a grey colour, of Chinese baking, and
of the kind exported years since in great
quantities from Batavia; and a knife and fork

of a pattern I had never before seen. On our
seating ourselves, Prins went round the table
with two jars — one holding a spirit, which I
afterwards found was a kind of gin, and the
other cold water, with which he manufactured
a bumper for us three men, but the girl drank
the water plain.

Not a word was said whilst Prins was at
this work. As he was filling my cup, the
clock over the door struck eight, the skeleton
appearing and flourishing his lance as before,
and scarce was this ended when the parrot
croaked out, **xai2 3\?ii Fil Dci^oni^." I had
forgotten this bird, and the harsh utterance
and dreadful words coming upon me unawares
so startled me that I half-sprang to my feet.
The girl looked down on the table with a
sad face, whilst Vanderdecken said, " 'Tis the
clock that excites that fowl ; we shall have to
hang her out of hearing of it."

He never offered to make me known to
the fair creature opposite, but that did not

signify, for, after stealing several peeps at
me, she asked in Dutch, but with the artless
manner of a child, and in a sweet voice, if I
was a Hollander.

I answered, " No, I am an Englishman,
madam," feeling the blood warm in my face
through the mere speaking with so delicate a
beauty.

'* I, too, am English !" she cried, in our
own tongue.

'' Indeed !" I exclaimed, transported out of
myself by hearing this, and by perceiving
how warm, real and living she was. " Butin
the name of Heaven, how is it that you
are alone upon this strange ship, amid these
mysterious men ?" for that question I could
no more forbear asking right out than I could
conceal the admiration in my eyes, whilst I
felt no diffidence in talking, as I made no
doubt the English language was unintelligible
to the others.

She swiftly glanced at me, but did not

answer. I took this as a hint, and was silent.
And yet it did not seem that Vanderdecken
or Van Vogelaar heeded us. They appeared
as men sunk in deep abstraction, even
whilst they ate and drank. Some meat was
put before me ; Prins offered me a cake, and,
being hard set, I fell to. I found the meat
salt, but sweet and tender enough, and
turning to the mate asked him what it was.

"Antelope," he replied, " yonder," pointing
to the other dish, "is buffalo."

"Sir," exclaimed Vanderdecken, with a
wonderful stateliness in his manner, "be
pleased to despise ceremony here. Such as
our fare is, you are welcome. Take as you
may require, and Prins will fill your cup as
often as you need."

I bowed and thanked him.

"The wind blows hard, Imogene," said
he, addressing the girl. "It storms directly
along the path we would take. It is miserable,"
he continued, turning to me, " that

a change of weather should come upon us
just about those parts where the breeze
freshened Into this gale last night. But we'll
force her to windward yet — hey, Herman? —

though — though " he looked at the lady

he had named Imogene and halted abruptly
In his speech, but I noticed he could not
quickly clear his face of the passionate mad
look that darkened It, though It did not
qualify the paleness of the skin, but was like
the shadow of a heavy storm-cloud passing
over the upward-gazing features of a deadman.


The countenances of the mate and Prins
darkened to his savage mood. May Heaven
pardon me for the thought, but when I considered
the bitter vexation of a head wind,
and how this vessel was being blown dead
away to leeward faster than any line-of-battle
ship hove-to, I could not but secretly feel a
sailor s sympathy with these unhappy persons,
though that this would have been the case

had Vanderdecken expressed with his tongue
the fearful thoughts which he looked with his
eyes I do not think possible, if I know myself
at all.

There fell a silence among us, through
which we could hear the dreary howling of
the wind, the falls of heavy masses of water
upon the decks, and the lamentable complaining
of the whole fabric, though as these
noises were chiefly in the hold the notes rose
somewhat dulled. Presently, feeling it indecorous
in me to sit silent, I asked the captain
what his cargo was.

He answered, "We have much wrought
and raw silk, and cloves, musk, nutmegs,
mace and pepper, wood for dyeing, drugs,
calicoes, lacker-ware and such commodities,
sir."

'' And how many of a crew, sir ?"

Van Vogelaar turned to look at me.

'task no questions," exclaimed the girl in
English. "You will be misunderstood."

Our Q-uns are few, but the Braave Is a
swift ship," said the mate, with a very stern
and sullen expression on his rugged face.
She has out sailed one English frigate, and
by this time our Admirals should have left us
little to fear from the fleets of your Cromwell."

Pray," said the lady, addressing Wanders
and glancing in like a sunbeam upon
this sudden darkness of temper, "tell me of
this gentleman — how it happens he is here ;
I find he is my countryman. Converse with
me about him."

If it were possible for human affection to
touch into softness the fierce majestic countenance
of the noble looking being, whose
mien as he sate at the table might have been
that of some dethroned emperor, with the
pride of Lucifer to sustain him, I might seem
to have witnessed the tenderness of it in his
ashen, bearded face when he turned the cold
glitter of his eyes upon the girl.

'* We spoke his ship late last night, when

thou wast asleep, Imogene, and Van Vogelaar
went in our boat to buy tobacco, If they were
willing to sell, but on seeing the boat they
fired upon her. A light air blew, and the
ship moved away. Our boat was returning,
when she spied this gentleman fast drowning.
Van Vogelaar dragged him out of the water,
and — here he is !" saluting me with a grave
inclination of the head.

'had we changed places," said the stormy-minded,
rugged mate, "what would have
been my fate ?"

A colour flashed into Imogene's face, and
she cried, "Oh, Herr Van Vogelaar, your
pardon, If you please. English seamen areas
humane as they are brave."

"Yes," said the mate, with a sneer that
rendered his ugliness quite horrible with the
distortion of It, "because English sailors are
brave they fire upon an inoffensive boat, and
because they are humane they leave their
comrade to perish !"

Madam," said I, sofdy, "the character of
this ship was known to us."

She slightly raised her eyes, and such a
sadness came into them that I feared to see
her shed tears. Meanwhile, \^anderdecken
had his gaze fixed upon me. He seemed to
be musing upon what the mate had said.

"It was your Commodore Young," said
he, in his resonant voice, that, to be sure,
sounded grandly after the harsh pipes of the
mate, "who provoked us. Why should your
nation exact the honour of the flag ? Has it
bred greater seamen than Holland ? There
is my friend Willem Schouten — many a pipe,
when I was a young man, have I smoked
with him in his summer-house at Horn.
Does even your Drake surpass Schouten ?
No, no! It was not for England to be
mistress of the seas !" he exclaimed, with a
solemn shake of the head, not wanting in a
grave kind of urbanity.

I caught a glance from the girl, but I

needed no hint to keep my tongue still.
'Twas maddening and terrifying enough to
hear this man speak of Schouten as a friend
Schouten, who greatly headed the grand
procession of mariners such as Dampier,
Byron, Anson, and many others who, since
his day, have sailed round that Cape Horn — ■
which the stout Hollander was the first to
pass and to name — into the great South Sea.

And yet, spite of the effect produced upon
me by this man's speech and references, I
was sensible of a distinct pricking of my conscience
by my patriotism. To hear England
sneered at by the natives of a country which
has been described by a poet that flourished
in the days of Blake and Tromp as the "offscouring
of the British sand," and as the
undigested vomit of the sea," was by no
means to my liking. But to remonstrate
would have been but a mere warring with
the dead.

The captain appeared to delight to talk of

VOL. I. p

the war between the Dutch and the English,
I remember that he praised our Commodore
Motley, and said that if the States' ambassador,
Adrian Paw, had been a person of
understanding, the treaty might have stood.
This I recollect, but very little more, for, to
be plain, it was not only a frightful thing to
listen to him, but my thoughts were thrown
into the utmost confusion by the loveliness of
the lady who confronted me — by the assurance
of the sweet eyes, warm colour, and her
maidenly youth, which lived in every movement,
word, smile, or sad look of hers, that
she was no true member of the unholy
and fearful company she lived amongst ; by
my wondering how she came to be in this
Death Ship, and how it happened that she
was finely dressed ; not to speak of other
speculations, such as how the food upon the
table was provided, and by what means this
ship, which I knew had been struggling
against the will of the Omnipotent for hard

upon one hundred and fifty years, should
be supplied with a Liberal stock of the
conveniences of Hfe.

But we had now done eating. The mate
rose and quitted the table, but his place was
shortly afterwards taken by another man
whom I had not before seen, the second mate
as I afterwards discovered, named Antony
Arents. This person looked to be about
fifty years of age. He wore high boots and
a cloak and a soft flapping hat, which he
threw down on entering. His left eve had a
cast and the bridge of his nose was broken,
but his countenance was of the true Dutch
character, and in some points he was like the
boatswain, Antony Jans, whom I had seen on
deck when waking into consciousness, only
that he had less flesh to his belly. But in
him was the same ghastly hue of skin you
saw in the others ; 'twas in his hands as in his
face ; had you come across him in his sleep
you would have said he had been dead some

days. And, Indeed, never did I view a
corpse made ready for casting overboard that
had the aspect of the dead so strong upon it
as these men. He helped himself to food,
taking not the least notice of me.

Prins meanwhile had put a box of tobacco
and some long clay pipes upon the table, one
of which Vanderdecken took and filled, asking
me to smoke. I thanked him, wondering
what sort of tobacco time had converted this
weed into, took the tinder-box from the captain
and lighted my pipe. Well, if this was an
ancient tobacco age had not spoilt its qualities.
It smoked very sweet and sound.

We are on short allowance," said the
captain. 'your stock has run low. It will
be a hardship if we should come to want
tobacco."

I made no reply, being determined to learn
all I could about this ship and her people
from Miss Imogene before offering suggestions,
for though there is no living man

whose nose I would not offer to stroke for
calling me a coward, yet I am not ashamed
to say this Captain Vanderdecken terrified
me and I feared his wrath.

The girl, with her elbows on the table and
her fair chin resting on her hands, which
made an ivory cup for her face, watched
me continuously with eyes whose brightness
the large and sparkling diamond on her forefinger
did not match by many degrees of
glory.

'rare you long from England?" says she
to me presently in Dutch, that Vanderdecken
might know what we talked about.

'ewe sailed in April last," I replied. "And
you, madam ?"

She either did not hear the question or
would not answer.

Are you married ?" asked the captain of
me, smoking very slowly to get the true
relish of the tobacco, whilst the second mate
chewed his food with vacant eyes, squinting

Straight ahead or meeting In a traverse on his
plate.

'' No, sir," I replied.

'rare your parents Hving ?" he said.

'* My mother Is alive," I answered.

Ah !" said he, speaking as one In a reverie,
"A sailor should not marry. What is more
uncertain than the sea ? The mariner's wife
can never make sure of her husband's return.
What will mine be thinking if we continue to
be blown back as we are now by these
westerly gales ? It seems longer than months,
yea, It appears to me to be years, since I last
beheld her and my daughters standing near
the Schreyerstoren, weeping and waving
their farewells to me. My eldest girl,
Geertrulda, will be grown sick at heart with
her long yearning for the parcel of silk I have

for her. And Margaretha " he sighed,

softly. Then turning to Imogene, he said,
'* My dear, show this gentleman the toy I am
taking home for my little Margaretha."

She rose with a look of pain in her face,

and stepped to the cabin that was next the

captain's. I now understood why he had

desired me to speak in subdued tones last

night, for that was the room in which she

slept. The ease with which she moved upon

that heaving deck was wonderful, and this

verse of a ballad came into my head as I

watched her go from the table to her cabin —

"No form he saw of mortal mould,
It shone like ocean's snowy foam ;
Her ringlets waved in living gold,
Her mirror crystal, pearl her comb."

Ay, the ocean might have owned her for a

child, with such dainty, elegant ease did she

accommodate her form to the sweep and heave

of its billows, as denoted by the motions of the

ship ; as some lovely gull with breast of snowy

down and wings of ermine airily expresses the

swing and charge of the surge by its manner

of falling in each hollow and lifting above

each head on outstretched pinion. Her

costume too, that was so strange a thing,

giving to this interior so romantic an appearance
that, had the ship been still and you had
looked in at the cabin door, then, with this
lady's beauty and dress, the majestic figure of
Vanderdecken smoking in his high-backed
chair, the second mate at his food, Pri))^
standing like one that dreams, all the faces
but the girl's and mine ghastly, the strange
beauty of the lamp that swung over the table,
the oval frames holding paintings so bleared
and dusky that it was difficult to make out
the subjects, the dim and wasted colour of the
cabin walls, and the bald tawdriness of what
had been rich giltwork, the clock of ancient
pattern, the parrot cage — I say, had you been
brought on a sudden to view this interior
from the door, you might have easily deemed
it some large astonishing picture painted
to the very height of the greatest master's
perfection.

In a moment or two Miss Imogene returned,
and coming to the table placed upon

it a little fissure about five Inches tall. It
was of some metal and had been gaily
coloured as I supposed from what was left of
the old tints. Its style was a red cloak falling
down its back, a small cap with a feather,
shoes almost hidden with great rosettes, hose
as high as the thigh, and then a sort of blouse
with a girdle. Both arms hung before in a
very easy and natural posture and the hands
grasped a flute.

V^anderdecken, putting down his pipe, took
a kev from under the cloak of the fissure and
wound the automaton up as a clock, when it
instance lifted the flute to its mouth, in the
exact manner of life, and played a tune. The
sound was very pure though piercing, the
melody simple and flowing. In all, the figure
played six tunes without any sound of the
clock-work within, and it was undoubtedly a
very curious and costly toy.

The second mate stalked out in the middle
of this performance, having finished his meal,

and showing no more sensibility to what was
doing than did the table the figure played on.
The eyes of the man Prins had a sickly, faraway
look, to be imagined only, for no one
could describe it. Vanderdecken lighted his
pipe when the automaton struck up, and
nodded gravely to the fluting with as much
pleasure in his face as so fierce and haughty
a countenance could express. The girl stood
leaning upon the table, with a listlessness in
her manner and constantly regarding me.

Scarce had the sixth tune been played,
when the parrot called out from his cage,
*''M^ 3Sn al UerctomM" clearly showing that
she knew when the entertainment was over.
Her pronouncing these words in Dutch robbed
them somewhat, to my ear, of their
tremendous import, but still it was a terrible
sentence for the creature to have lighted on,
and I wondered what her age was, for she
could not have been newly-hatched when
Vanderdecken bought her, as — he had told

me — she then spoke the same words. However,
the captain was full of his flute-player,
and neither he nor Imogene noticed the
parrot.

This should delight my little Margarethaha,"
said he, lifting the figure and
examining it ; " 'tis as cunning a toy as
ever I saw. I bought it at Batavia, from
an old friend of mine, Reeves Meanders
Baker, who had purchased it of a
sailor belonging to the company's ship,
Revolution, for eight ducats. 'Twill rejoice
my child ; you shall present it to her,
Imogene. I would not sell it for five
hundred dollars ; 'tis worthy to be John
Muller's work."

He ceased speaking, lifting his hand ; then
exclaimed, " Hark ! how the wind continues
to storm."

He gave the figure to the girl who returned
it to her cabin.

In a few minutes he put down his pipe and

bade Prins bring him his skin or fur cap, and
then rose, impressing me as keenly as though
I viewed him for the first time by the nobility
of his stature, his great beard flowing to the
waist, the sharp supernatural fires in his eyes
as if the light there were living flames. In
silence he quitted the cabin, acting like a man
influenced by spells, without the governance
of the logic of human behaviour.

I TALK WITH MISS IMOGENE DUDLEY
ABOUT THE DEATH SHIP.

Being in the way now of enjoying a talk with
Imogene, the ridiculousness of the dress I
was in struck me, and I asked Prins, who was
clearing the table, whether my own clothes
were yet dry. He answered they were hung
up in the furnace near the workhouse, by
which I suppose he meant the caboose, and
that when they were dry he would bring
them to my cabin.

In these things," said I, addressing Imogene
in English, whilst I turned my head
about to catch a sight of my tails, '' I feel
like a fool in a carnival. What ages this
garb represents I cannot conceive, but it

surely does not represent less than a century
of fashion."

And what must you think of my attire ?"
said she, seating herself in the captain's chair,
which her beauty made a throne of in a
breath, the light of her hair gilding it. '' But
all things are wonderful here," she added,
with a half-glance at Prins, whose movements
and manner as he removed the dishes from
the table were as deaf and soulless as the
behaviour of the figure that had just piped tous.
"You know, of course, what ship this is ?''

I said "Yes," in a subdued voice, and sat
down on the end of the bench near her,
adding, " Will the captain take it amiss if we
converse ?"

"No," she answered, "but should he forbid
it and then find you speaking to me, his
temper would be dreadful. He is a terribly
passionate man. Yet he is gentle to me, and
speaks of his wife and children with exquisite
tenderness."

'' His wife and children ! God help him !"

Oh I" she cried, trembling, "I cannot
express to you the horror and pain I feel
when I hear him talk of them as though he
should find them as they were — altered by
the length of a year only — when he parted
from them. He does not know that he is
cursed — none of them on board this ship
know it of themselves."

'' Is that so?" I exclaimed. 'surely their
repeated failures to pass the Agulhas point
must convince them that the will of God is
opposed to their attempts and that they are
doomed men."

She leaned her fair cheek upon her hand
with a thoughtful absent expression in her
violet eyes, though they remained fixed upon
me with a child-like simplicity extraordinarily
fascinating. I particularly noticed the beautiful
turn of her wrist, the fairy delicacy of her
nostrils and mouth, and the enchanting curve
of her chin to her throat. Her figure was

full, and in the swell of her breasts and the
breadth of her shoulders, fining down Into a
waist In admirable harmony with her stature
and make, you might seem to have witnessed
every assurance of robustness. But you
found a suggestion rather than a character of
fragility In the beauty of her face that caused
the very delight you took In the gold and
lilies and violets of her loveliness to grow
pensive. There was a complete absence
of embarrassment In her manner towards
me.

"If you please, what name am I to know
you by ?" she asked.

"Geoffrey Fenton," I answered, "and
you ?"

Imogene Dudley." I bowed to her, and
she continued, " Are you a sailor?"

I raised my hands half-mockingly, and
said, " Do I not look my calling?" but recollecting
my apparel, I burst Into a laugh and
exclaimed, touching the faded finery upon the

cuff of my coat, "You will have thought mea
beadle or a footman."

She shook her head smiling, but instantly
grew grave, and now spoke in a most earnest
voice. '' I will tell you all I know about this
ship and about myself. My father was
Captain Dudley, of Portsmouth, and nearly
five years ago, as closely as I can reckon
time where time has ceased to all the others,
he commanded a ship named the Flying
Fish, and took me and my mother with him
on a voyage to China. We called at Table
Bay, but when we were off the coast where
Alloa Bay is situated, the ship was set on
fire by one of the crew entering the hold
with a lighted candle and attempting to steal
some rum. The flames quickly raged, the
ship was not to be saved, the boats were
lowered and my mother and I and a seaman
entered one of them, but suddenly the ship
blew up, destroying the boats that were
against its side, and when the smoke cleared

VOL. I. Q

off nothing was to be seen on the water but a
few pieces of blackened timber. Our boat
had been saved by my father ordering the
man to keep her at a good distance lest a panic
arose and she should be entered by too great a
number. The shock so affected my mother
that she lost her mind." Here Imogene hid
her face. When she looked at me aoraln her
face was wet, nevertheless she continued :
*she died on the night following the loss of-the
ship, and I was left alone with the sailor.
We were many leagues from the land, we had
no sail, the oars were heavy. I was too weak
and ill to help him with them, and the fierce
heat soon melted the strength out of him, so
that he left off rowing. He was good to me,
gentle and very sorrowful about me. I cried
so much over losing my father and mother,
and at our dreadful situation, that I thought
my heart would break, and I prayed that it
might, for indeed I wanted to die." She drew
a deep hysteric breath, tremulous as a long

bitter sob. *ewe drifted here and there for
five days, after which thirst and hunger bereft
me of my senses, and I remember no more
till I awoke in this ship. I then learnt that
they had passed our boat close, and had
stopped the vessel to inspect her. The seaman
was dead, and they supposed me dead
too, but Captain Vanderdecken, fancying a
likeness in me to his daughter Alia, called to
his men to bring me on board. They did so
and found life in me."

x\nd you have been in this vessel ever
since !" cried I.

'' Ever since !" she responded.

That is to say," I exclaimed, scarcely
realising the truth, "for hard upon five
years !"

She hid her eyes and shook her sweet face
in the cover of her hands, as if she could not
bear to think of it. I waited a little, partly
that she might have time to recover her tranquillity,
and party that Prins might make an

end of his business and go, though, let me
declare, he gave us no more heed than had
he been the clock ; much less, indeed, than
did the parrot that, having rounded her head,
after the manner of those birds, till her beak
was uppermost, watched us with the broadside
of her face, and therefore with one eye,
with horrid pertinacity and gravity.

But can it be, Miss Dudley," said I>
that Captain Vanderdecken never intends
to part with you ?"

She looked up quickly, and said, '' My
position is Incredibly strange. He has a
father's fondness for me, and declares that,
as I have no relations, I shall be one of his
children, and live with his wife and daughters
at Amsterdam. But he has no sense of time.
Neither he nor the miserable crew can compute.
To him and the others this is the year
1654, and he supposes that he sailed from
Batavia in July of last year, that is, as he
conceives, In 1653. At first I tried to make

him understand what century this was, but
he patted my cheek, and said my senses had
not returned, and, when I persisted, he grew
angry, and his temper so terrified me that I
feigned to agree with him, and have ever
since done so."

I reflected, and said, " It must be as you
say, and as I have already noted ; for, did
the Almighty grant him and his crew any
perception of the passage of time, is it conceivable
that he would talk of his wife and
children as still living, and be eager to return
to them ? When did you discover that this
was the Phantom Ship ?"

I had heard that there was such a vessel
from my father, and when Captain 
talked to me and I marked the
colour of his face and the appearance of the
crew, and the glow that shone upon the
vessel In the dark, with other strange things,
such as her ancient appearance, I soon satisfied
myself"

'father of Mercy!" I cried, 'what a
situation for a young girl !"

When I felt sure of the ship," she said,
I should have drowned myself in my misery
and terror, only I dreaded God's wrath. I
felt that if I humbly resigned myself to His
Holy Will He would suffer the spirits of my
father and mother to be with me and watch
over me. But, oh ! what a tedious waiting
has It been, what bitter weariness of sea and
sky ! Again and again have I entreated
Captain Vanderdecken to put me on board
some passing ship, but not conceiving of the
years which run by, and every tempest
that obstructs him melting as a memory into
the last, so that the rebuffs of a century past
are to him as forgotten things, or possessing
the same sort of recentness that in a day or
two this gale, which is now blowing, will
have, he thinks to encourage me by saying
that next time he is certain to round the
headland, that, as he has adopted, so he must

not part with me, but carry me in his own
ship and under his own protection to his wife
and home."

I understood her and admired the cleverness
with which she rendered intelligible tome
the state of mind of the captain and crew
of this ship, that is to say so far as concerned
their incapacity to compute the passage of
the days. For is it not evident that if these
men knew that they were doomed never to
round the Cape, they would cease striving todo
so ? And would they not long ago have
understood the character of the Judgment
that had been passed upon them had they
been permitted to comprehend that year after
year rolled on, ay, even into centuries, and
still found them beaten back regularly from
the same part of the ocean to the passing of
which their struggles had been directed ?
How far memory in them was suffered to go
back so as to count the number of times they
were driven afresh to the eastwards, I could

not Imogene ; but no doubt Imogene, who
knew Vanderdecken well, was right when she
said that the recollection of the last rebuff
melted into every present one, so that, in
short, in this respect they were as men without
memory. And this must have been so,
for they worked with hope ; whereas hope
would have long since died in them could
they have recollected.

What are your thoughts," I asked her, "as
regards their mortality ? Are they human ?"

"Yes, Mr. Fenton, they must be human, '*
for they think of their homes and wives and
children," she replied.

I was struck with this, though I said,
Might not their very yearning be a part of
the Curse ? For if you extinguish their desire
of getting home, the impulse that keeps them
striving with the elements would disappear,
and they would say, ' Since we cannot get
westwards and so to Europe, we'll head for
the east and make for the Indies ?' "

It is a thing impossible to reason upon,"
she exclaimed, sadly, and pressing her hand
to her brow. '' The Great God here, in this
ship, has worked in miracles and mysteries
for purposes of His own. Who can explain
His ways .^ Sometimes I have thought by
the dreadful hue of the skin of their faces
that they are men dead in body, but forced
into the behaviour of living beings by the
strength of the Curse that works in them."

I replied that in saying this she had exactly
hit upon the fancy of my late captain, who
had taken his own life on the previous
evening, which fancy now struck me as an
amazing inspiration, seeing that it was her
own opinion and that my own judgment fully
concurred in it.

'Tis impossible," said she, " that they can
be as we are. They are supernaturally alive.
Oh! it is shocking to think of. Is it not
wonderful that my long association with
these people has not driven me mad ? Yet

the captain loves me as a father ; such Is his
tenderness at times when he talks of his
home and strives to keep up my heart by
warranting that next time — It is always next
time — we shall pass the Cape and all will be
well with us, that I am lost In wonder he
could have ever so acted as to bring the curse
of an eternal life of hopeless struggle upon
him and his men."

'ray," cried I, 'rand why should his men
be accursed ?"

I have often asked myself that whilst
watching them," she replied. " But then I
have answered, why should Innocent little
children bear in their forms, and in their
minds too, the diseases and infirmities caused
by the wickedness and recklessness of persons,
perhaps several generations removed
from them ? We dare not question — 'tis
impious, Mr. Fenton. In this ship especially
must we be as mute spectators only, for weare
two living persons standing amid shadows,

and viewing so marvellous a mystery that
I tremble to the depth of my soul at the
thoughts of my nearness to the Majesty of
an offended God !"

By this time Prins had quitted the cabin,
and the girl and I were alone. There was
a great weight of sea running, and the rolling
of the ship was very violent. This end of
the vessel was so tall that It rose buoyant
from the head of every billow that leapt at
her afterward ; but the thunder of the seas
smiting her In the waist would roar like a
tempest through the ship ; you could hear
the waters washing about the deck there ;
then the groaning and complaining below
was continuous, and the sounds which penetrated
the cabin from the gale In the rigging
made you think of the affrighted bellowing
of bulls chased by wolves in full cry.

'' There seems to be a fierce storm blowing,"
said Imogene, who had watched my
face whilst I listened; "but since I have

been In this ship there have been far wilder
tempests than this."

No doubt, In all the weary years you
have spent here. What has been your experience
of the winds which regularly oppose
the ship ? Do they happen naturally, as In
the case of this one, which was plentifully
betokened by the look of the moon and other
signs, or do they rise on a sudden — In such
wise, I mean, as would make one see they
were for this vessel only, and are a temporary
change In the laws of nature hereabouts that
the Curse may be continued ?"

I cannot answer ; all that I can speak to
is this : as punctually as we arrive at a given
place the wind heads us, as used to be my
poor father's term and as all seamen say.
And sometimes it blows softly and sometimes
It rises Into fury. But let It come as it will
the vessel Is blown or driven back a great
many leagues, but how far I cannot say, for
Vanderdecken himself does not know."

I would not trouble her with further
questions touching what I will call the
nautical routine of the ship and the manoeuvring
of the unhappy creatures the vessel
carried, because already I suspected that I
should have rather more leisure than I should
relish to look into these matters myself. But
as she manifestly took a pleasure in conversing
with me, and as I wished to obtain
all the information possible about this Death
Ship, and as, should Vanderdecken forbid
my associating with or addressing her, there
might be no one else on board of whom I
could venture to make inquiries, I determined
at once to push my researches as far as
courtesy permitted.

I trust. Miss Dudley," said I, finding a
singular delight in the pure virginal resting
of her violet eyes, sparkling like the jewels of
a crown, on mine as I talked to her, "that my
questions do not tease you "

"Oh, no!" she interrupted. "If you but

l^new how glad I am, how It gives me fresh
heart to hear you speak, to see your Hving
face after my long desolating communion
with the people of this ship !"

Indeed I can conceive it !" said I. " May
God grant that what I viewed last night as a
most dreadful misfortune, full of terror, ay,
even to madness, may prove the greatest
stroke of good luck that could have befallen
me. But of what is to be done we must
talk later on. I shall require to look about
me. Tell me now, madam, if you will, how
is this ship provisioned ? Surely these men
are not miraculously fed ; and 'tis certain that
the meat I tasted this morning has been
cured since 1653 !"

She smiled and said, " When they run
short of food or water they sail for some part
of the coast where there is a river. There
they go on shore in boats, armed with
muskets, and come off with all that they can
kill."

"Ha!" cried I, fetching a deep breath,
*' there is some plain sailing in this unholy
business after all. But how do they
manage for ammunition ? Surely they must
long ago have expended their original
stock ?"

'' I can but Qruess. About a twelvemonth
ago we met with an abandoned ship, out
of which Vanderdecken conveyed a great
quantity of tobacco, powder, money and
articles of food, a few cases of marmalade
and some barrels of flour. Whether these
shipwrecked vessels are left lying upon the
sea for him to take provisions from by the
Power that has sentenced him to his fearful
fate I cannot say, but since I have been in
this vessel we have fallen in with three
deserted ships, both floating and ashore on
the coast, and this may have been their
method throughout of providing themselves
with what they needed, backed by such
further food as I have never known them

to miss of with their muskets and fowling-pieces."


'' So !" cried I, greatly marvelling. " Now
I understand how it happens that the captain
can lend me such latter-day clothes as these
from his seventeenth-century wardrobe, and
that you — forgive me, madam — are attired as
I see you."

She answered, "In their hold they have
a great quantity of silks and materials for
making gowns for women. This jacket,"
said she, meaning that which she was wearing,
"Is one article out of several chests of
clothes Captain Vanderdecken was carrying
home for his wife and daughters and friends.
Do you notice the style, Mr. Fenton ?" she
added, turning about her full and graceful
figure that I might see the jacket, " it
is certainly of the last century. In the
captain's cabin is the portrait of one of
his daughters dressed in much the same
way.

'you, at all events," said I, 'rare not likely
to run short of clothes."

"Oh!" she answered, with a toss of her
head, half of weariness, half of scorn as It
seemed to me, "there Is a chest In my cabin
full of clothes fit for the grandest Duchess In
England. I use such as come most readily
to my hands. What need have I," she exclaimed,
pushing her hair from her forehead,
to care whether the colours I take match,
or whether the gown Is too full. This jacket
fits me as do all the clothes that were Intended
for Geertrulda Vanderdecken." Then,
noticing my eyes resting on the pearls, she
said, taking the beautiful and costly rope In
her hands, " There Is a great stock of finery
of this kind In the ship. About a fortnight
or three weeks after I had been rescued, the
captain ordered Prins to bring a large case
into the cabin; it was put upon the table and
the captain opened It. 'Twas like a jeweller's
shop In miniature, containing several divl-

VOL. I. R

sons, one full of pearl ornaments, another of
rings, of which he bid me choose one to wear,
and I took this," holding up her forefinger
whereon the jewel blazed, "a third of earrings
and many other trinkets ; some, as I
should fancy, more ancient than this ship,
others of a later time. How he Grot much of
this treasure I know"

*how?" asked I, deeply interested.

Well," said she, letting fall the pearls
around her neck to toy with the ring, *' a fair
proportion he had purchased for a merchant
of Amsterdam ; chiefly eastern jewellery that
had made its way from Indian cities to Java ;
other parcels he was taking home on his own
account ; but much of it, too, along with a
store of further treasure — some of which I
have seen, and which consists of virgin silver,
bars of gold, coated with pewter to deceive
the pirates and buccaneers, candlesticks and
crucifixes of precious metal — he found in the
wreck of a great Spanish ship which lay

abandoned and going to pieces on a shoal
off the coast of Natal. This happened during
his progress from Batavia to the Cape, before
he was cursed, and therefore it falls within his
memory. What other treasure there is, his
men have no doubt brought away from the
wrecked vessels they have examined for food,
powder and the like, during the years they
have been sailing about this ocean."

So," cried I, lost in amazement by what I
heard, "it is in this fashion that the Phantom
Ship supplies her wants. As ships grow
more numerous, her opportunities will increase,
for 'tis terrible to think of the number
of vessels which go a-missing ; and,
besides, this is the road to India, along which
pass the most richly freighted of Europe's
merchant fleets. Now I understand how
Vanderdecken manages to keep his crew
supplied with clothes, and his ship with sails
and cordage. But, Lord!" cried I, "if there
be nothing magical in this, yet surely the

the Evil Spirit must be suffered to have a
hand in the keeping of the bones of this old
fabric together !"

As I said this, Prins entered the cabin,,
and said, shortly, "Your clothes are dry,
mynheer ; they are below."

On which Imogene rose, and giving me a
bow, went to her own cabin.

THE DEATH SHIP MUST BE SLOW AT PLYING.

I STOOD a moment or two at the door watching
the clock whilst it struck, and greatly-admiring
the workmanship of the skeleton
that rose and speared with his lance, keeping
time to the sonorous chiming, which sang
with a solemn interval between each beat.
The great age of this time-keeper was
beyond question, but the horn that protected
the face of it prevented me from perceiving
if there was any maker's name or date there.
As the skeleton sank, I could not but
admire the fatness of the mechanism to the
condition of the ship and her crew, for what
could surpass the irony of this representation
of Death perpetually foiled in his efforts to

slay Time, which was yet the case of 
and his men, whose mortality was
constrained to an endless triumph over that
force which drives all men born of woman
through Nature into Eternity.

The parrot hanging near, I stayed yet to
look at her and then spoke to the creature in
my rugged Dutch, but to no purpose ; with
the slow motion of her kind she contorted
herself until, with her beak uppermost, she
brought her larboard eye to bear full upon
me ; and so fixed and unwinking was her
stare that I greatly disliked it, nay, felt that
if I lingered I should fear it, and was going
when she brought me to a stand by a hollow
"Ha! ha! ha!" just such a note as fancy
would give to the ghost of a Dutchman, who
had been large, fat and guttural when alive,
could the spectre of such a one laugh in his
coffin or in a vault. The age which this bird
had attained made her mere appearance chilling
to the blood, though I am aware these

creatures are long-lived and that no man with
certainty could say they might not flourish
two hundred years and more. She was not
bald. All her feathers were sound and
smooth. Yet, as I made my way to my
cabin, It terrified me Into downright despondency
to conceive of this parrot sharing In
the Curse that Vanderdecken had provoked.
For If this soulless fowl could be Involved In
the general fate merely because It happened
to be In the ship, why might not my lot prove
the same ? Oh, my heart ! To think of
becoming one of the crew, partaking their
horrid destiny, and In due course dying to
live again accurst and miraculously, my soul
as theirs — existing In my body like one of
those feeble lamps with which the ancients
illumined their tombs !

But I was young and was not without an
Englishman's courage. I could gaze backwards
and perceive in my life no sin such as
should fill me with remorse and hopelessness

in a time like this. I believed in my
Creator's goodness, and reaching my darksome
cabin, I knelt down and prayed, and
after awhile recollected myself and felt the
warmth of my former spirit.

I was mighty pleased to recover my own
clothes ; they gave me back the sense of my
being my true self again, whereas the masquerading
attire Vanderdecken had lent me
occasioned a wretched feeling as of belonging
to the ship. When I had shifted myself, I
neatly folded the captain's coat, breeches and
the rest, and then sat down on my bed
to think over my conversation with Miss
Dudley. What to credit, what to make of
her, I hardly knew. She was so beautiful
where all was ugly, so fresh where all was
decayed, so young where all was withered, so
radiant where all was darksome that, onboard
such a ship as this, that had been consigned
to the most dreadful doom the imagination
of man could conceive of, how was I

to know that she was not some part of the
scheme of retribution — a sweet and dazzling
tantaHser, a mocker of the home affections of
the miserable ship's company, a lovely embodiment
of the spirit of life to serve some
purpose of an Inscrutable nature In Its Influence
upon such spiritual vitality as was
permitted to the corpse-like beings who
navigated this Death Ship.

But this was a fleeting fancy only, and
was rendered utterly ridiculous by recurrence
to her transporting figure, the golden warmth
of her hair and complexion, and above all to
the fragility of her lineaments, which stamped
her mortal. Xo ! her story was the truth
itself; but this I understood, if \'anderdecken
were never to comprehend his doom, there
was stern assurance of his holding the girl to
his ship until she died ; because, as she had
pointed out, he had adopted her and desired
to take her home, and would never understand
he was powerless to do so, even should

time represent the truth to him In her face,
should she ever grow old enough for wrinkles
and grey hairs.

Had I been sent to deliver her ? God
knoweth, I thought. Yet, what was my own
case ? Would they refuse to let me leave
them ? Well, that Idea did not frighten me,
for he is a poor sailor who cannot find a
means of escape from a ship he dislikes, even
though she should be commanded by Old
Nick himself But suppose they compelled me
to go, set me ashore In their boat, or hailed
some unsuspecting vessel that would receive
me. I should then be powerless to rescue
Imogene from this frightful situation, for as
to subsequently helping to succour her, first
of all I doubted whether I should find a sailor
in any part of the world willing to ship for a
cruise in search of Vanderdecken's craft, and
next, even If I should be able to range a line-of-battle
ship alongside this venerable frame,
how should human artillery advantage us in

such a conflict ? 'Twould be but another
defiance of the Divine intention, and what
mariner was to be found who would embark
on any adventure against this dread Spectre
of the Deep when, by so doing, he would feel
that he was fiorhtino: a X^eno^eance which would
swiftly deal with him for so great an act of
impiety ?

However, no good could come of meditations
of this kind in that gloomy cabin filled
with the echoes of the groaning in the hold
and the washing and shocks of the seas without.
I felt a seaman's curiosity to have a
good look at a ship of which there were a
thousand stories afloat in every forecastle
throughout the world, and so I climbed
through the hatch on deck, dressed in the
style in which I had made my first appearance.
The second mate, Antony Arents,
conned the vessel, standing near the helm
with his arms folded in a sullen, moody
posture, even so as to resemble a man

turned into stone. Vanderdecken was at the
weather-rail, erect and noble-looking, his legs
parted in the attitude of a stride that he
might balance himself to the rolling deck.
He stared fixedly to the windward, his great
beard, departed, blowing like smoke over
either shoulder, and his brows lowered into a
contemptuous scowl upon his sharp, burning
eyes. The ship was under the same canvas
I had before noticed on her. Her yards
were as closely pointed to the wind as the lee
braces could bring them, but whereas in our
time a square-rigged vessel close-hauled can
be brought to within six points, that is to say,
if the gale be north she can be made to head
east-north-east, yet this ship, as I easily
gathered without looking at the compass, lay
no closer than eight-and-a-half or nine points,
the wind blowing west-north-west and we
lying by as close as the trim of the yards
would suffer us, at about south-by-west.

In short, we were being driven at the rate

of some three or four miles an hour dead to
leeward, broadside on. Now, as I am writing
this in the main that all mariners may have a
just and clear conception of the sort of ship
V'anderdeckens vessel is, I particularly desire
that this matter of her not being able to sail
within eight or nine points of the wind be
carefully noted ; for, then you shall understand
how fully with her own tackling, and
yards and canvas, she helps out and fulfils
her doom.

If ever you have read the account of
mv Lord Anson's vovao^e round the world.

o

you will recollect, in the second chapter of
Book II., the narrative, given at length, of
the time occupied by the Gloucester in fetching
and casting anchor off Juan Hernandez.
She could make no way at all in beating or
reaching. She was first sighted from the
island on the 21st of June: she was still striving
against the head wind on the 9th of July ;
then she was blown away, and reappeared on

the 1 6th, and it was not until the 23rd of
that month that she was seen opening the
north-west point of the bay with a flowing
sail, which means that she had a fair wind,
and which may also be said to signify that
had the wind not favoured her she might
have gone on struggling for years without
making the island. Think, now, of a vessel
very nearly fitted as our ships are rigged,
occupying thirty-two days — a whole month
and a day atop — in covering a distance
which, when the Gloucester was first sighted,
was reckoned at four leagues !

Is it, then, surprising that a vessel constructed
considerably more than a century
earlier than the ships of Anson's squadron, in
an age when the art of building was little
understood, when a ship's hull was as tall asa
great castle, when all things aloft were
ponderous, when the immense beam, helped
yet by the wide channels, gave such a spread
to the shrouds that they could make of the

breeze no more than a beam wind when
braced up as sharp as the yards would come
■ — is it surprising, -I say, that this Dutchman,
so constructed, should never be able to contend
with a contrary wind ? I am the more
pleased to point this out because I have
heard it particularly affirmed that if sanders
were a good seaman he would laugh
at a north-wester though there should be no
other wind in those seas ; for he need do
nothing but make a lonQ^ board to the south,
to as far, say, as fifty degrees, in order, with
his starboard tacks aboard, to pass the Cape
and enter the Atlantic, where he would
probably catch the south-east trade wind and
so make good his return. But this presupposes
no Sentence, even if the ship were
capable of sailing close-hauled.

To resume. Neither the captain, nor the
second mate, nor the seaman at the tiller,
taking the least notice of me, I determined
to keep myself to myself till it should please

Vanderdecken to address me ; so I got under
the lee of the house where I had conversed
with the captain before breakfast, and gazed
about. It was as dirty a day as ever I
remember — the heavens of the colour of
drenched granite, the sea-line swallowed up
in spray and haze, out of welch there came
rolling to the ship endless processions of
olive - coloured, prodigious combers. The
storming aloft was a perpetual thunder.
Upon every rope the gale split with a shriek,
and there was a dreary clattering of the cordage,
and as the vessel swang her spars to
windward, an edge of peculiar and hurricane-like
fierceness would be put into the wind,
as though it were driven outrageously mad
by the stubborn swing of the masts against
its howling face. Nothing was In sight save
over against our weather-quarter a Cape hen,
poised on such easy wings that the appearance
of the bird made a wonder of the weight
of the blast ; its solitariness gave a heavy

desolation to the aspect of the pouring, warring
scene of frothing summits and roaring
hollows. The reefed courses under which
the vessel lay were dark with wet from the
showering of the sea, of which great, green,
glittering masses striking the weather bow,
raised such a smoke of crystals all about the
forecastle that the vessel looked to be on
fire with the steam-like, voluminous whiteness
soaring there.

There were a few men on the decks that
way, muffled up to their noses ; but I did not
see them speak to one another nor go about
any kind of work. They had the same self-engrossed,
nay, entranced air that was visible
in those, such as the two mates and Wanders
whom I had already observed. The
ship offered an amazing picture as she soared
and sank upon the billows, half-hidden by
storms of froth swept by the wind betwixt
the masts with wilder screaming than a
hundred mad-houses could make. The great
VOL. I. s

barricaded tops, her spritsail topmast standing
up out of another top at the end of the bowsprit
— she had no jibboom —-and the long
yard, after the lateen-style, on her mizzen-mast,
gave her so true a look of the age in
which she had been built that it would be
impossible for any sailor to see her and not
know what ship she was. None other
resembling her has been afloat since the age
of William III., nor is it conceivable that the
like of her will ever be seen again.

I WITNESS THE Captain's Estrangement.

I HAD been on deck about a quarter of an
hour when Vanderdecken, who all this time
Alas standing motionless at the rail looking
as who shall tell with what fancies in him
and what visions — at the windward sea,
came down to the lee of the house as though
he all along knew I was there, though I can
swear he never once turned nor appeared to
see me. and said —

Is the lady in the cabin ?"

She went to her room, sir," I replied.

*' Did she tell you her story ?" he said,
bringing his beard to its place with both
hands, and viewing me with a severity
that I began to think might be as much

owing to the cast of His features as to his
nature. . *

I replied that she had told me how he had :
met with her in an open boat, how her"
parents had perished, and' how he had felt''a
father's pity and love lor. her and was taking
her home. " -

'' To adopt here's he exclaimed. " She*
shall be a child of mine. My wife will soon
love her, and she will be a sister to my
daughters. She has no "relatives, and such
beauty and sweetness of-heart. as hers must
be cared' for, since how does the world commonly
serve such graces when they meet in a
friendless woman ?" .

Surely, th'oiight I," he that can talk thus
cannot be mandeville ! And yet does not
the great Milton Bestow-the tenderness of
a sister and a daughter on Sin when she
reconciles Satan and ' Death ? Something of
human signature there-must ever be even ti ■-
those who most strictly merit Heaven's chastisement

; and the lustre of the glory in our
beginning, though it wane till its glow is no
brighter than the dim, fiery rawlings upon
this ship's side at night, is never utterly
extinguished in the blackest spirit of us all.

I had no desire to talk of ?bliss Dudley
lest I should put him into a passion by some
remark touching the number of years she had
now been on board, or by blundering in some
other-like manner. If she was to. escape
through rne it behoved me to keep my
thoughts mighty" close and secret, for. let
what would be the state of being he had
entered into in two centuries o'f existence,
his eyes were Hke .a burning-glass, as though
he could focus by them the * fires of suspicion
and scorch a hole through your
body to your souk to learn what was passing
there. So putting on an easy manner and
throwing a glance aloft and around, I said,
I i"ear, mynheer you find weather of this
kind strain your ship a good deal." •

'' Like all vessels she will work in such
seas as this," he replied.

'' How often is she careened ?" I asked.

*' How often should she need it, think
you ?" he replied, with sudden temper.

I said, warily, " I cannot imagine."

I have commanded the Braave for five
voyages," said he, softening a little, "and
only once — that is during the second voyage
did she prove leaky. But this voyage she
has been troublesome, and I have had to
careen her twice."

Twice only, thought I ; but you could
see that his memory had been shaped so as
to fit his doom, and that remembrance of all
that befell him and his crew from the time
when his sentence was first pronounced faded
almost as swiftly as they happened, like
clouds upon the blankness of the heavens, so
that the very changes that would illustrate
the passage of time to you or me, such as the
alteration in the rigs and shapes of the ships

he met, or the growth Into womanhood of
the girl he had rescued, would be as unmeaning
to him and his fellows as to men without
memory. Yet was it manifestly part of the
Curse that he should have a keen and bright
recollection of his house, his family, Amsterdam,
the politics and wars of his age and the
like. For if the faculty was wholly dead in
him, he would be but as a corpse without that
craving for home which perpetuates his doom.

"Is there any good spot for careening on
the coast, east of the Cape ?" said I, eager to
gather all I could touching the practices and
inner life of this wondrous ship without
appearing inquisitive.

He answered, " Yes, there is one good
place, 'tis in a bay ; I cannot name it, but it
is to be found by the peculiar shape of the
mountains at its back. If ever you should be
in these seas and need to careen, choose that
place, for besides that you may refresh your
crew with, and lay in a good store of — when

in season — oranges, plums, wild apricot,
lemons, plantains, and other fruits, with abundance
of such wish as cod, hake, and mullet,
and comforts and dainties such as plovers,
partridges, guinea-fowl, and bustards; you will
there find a salt spring, the water of which,
on boiling, yields salt enough for any quantity
of curing, and what should not be less
useful to you as a mariner to know is, that
about the shore you find scattered a kind of
unpack which, when boiled with sand and
tempered with oil, is as good as pitch for
paying your seams with."

So, thought I, and thither, then, is it that
you are led when your ship needs to be overhauled
or when your provisions run low.
With oakum worked from such ropes as he
would find on abandoned ships, and the unpack
he spoke about, he would have no
trouble in keeping the frame of the vessel
tight, more especially as the supernatural
quality that was in his own life was in that of

his ship likewise, so that the timber stood as
did his skin, albeit the one would often need
repairs just as the body of the other was
sustained by meat and drink.

*' I thank you for your information, captain,"
said I.

'' If," he continued, "you let the plantain
dry it will crush into an excellent tour. The
cakes we had at breakfast were formed of
plantain-flour."

"It Is wonderful," said I, "how the
mariner forces the sea and the land that
skirts it to supply his needs."

"Ay," he exclaimed. "It is as you say.
But no sailors surpass the Dutch in this
particular direction."

It seemed as if he would go on speaking,
but, looking, that I might attend to his
words, I observed that the whole man, with
amazing suddenness, appeared to undergo a
change. He stood motionless, gazing at
the leeward sea, his features fixed, not the

faintest working in them, and nothing stirring
but his beard. He was Hke one in a
fit, save for the frightful vitality he got from
the glare in his eyes, which were rooted as
though they beheld a phantom. I drew away
from him with a shudder, for his aspect now
was the most terrible revelation of his monstrous
and unearthly existence that had been
made to me. The change was of the violence
of a catalepsy, and this quick transition from
the intelligent, if death-like, looks of a man,
speaking of homely matters to a mute, petrified
figure, to which the fire of the eyes imparted
an inexpressible element of horror, so
terrified me that I felt the sweat-drops in
the palms of my hands. As to reasoning
on this condition of his, why, I could make
nothing of it. It looked as if the death that
was in his flesh and bones, finding his spirit,
or whatever it was that informed him, languid,
as the senses became through grief or
sickness, asserted its powers till it was driven

into its hiding-place again by the re-quickening
of the supernatural element that possessed
him. It was also apparent that this unnatural
gift of life did but give vitality to a corpse;
and that even as a disinterred body that
still wears the very tint of life, as though but
just dead, falls into dust on the air of
Heaven touching it, so do I strictly believe
that Vanderdecken and his crew would instantly
crumble into ashes, which the wind
would disperse, were the power that keeps
them intelligent and capable of moving
suspended. By which I mean that they
would not decay slowly, as the dead in
Nature do, but that they would dissolve into
dust as men who deceased a hundred years
ago.

These thoughts are not gay. But what
think you of the reality ? Never could I
so fully compass all the horror of the Curse
as now, when I turned my gaze from the
figure at my side, majestic in his marble

motlonlessness and alive In the eyes only, to
the strained, grey, streaming ancient ship,
tossing her forking bowsprit to the sullen
gloom on high, bringing her aged, patched
and dingy courses, groaning at their tacks,
with a sulky thunder against the screaming
gale, as though their hollows dimly reverberated
yet the cannonading of the vanished
fleets of Blake and Tromp ; washed by seas
which fled in snow-storms over her forward
decks, heavily and dismally rolling broadside
to the wind that was blowing her with
diabolic stubbornness back along the liquid
path that she had so lately sailed over !
Think of such a life as this, never-ending !
Great Mercy! Would not even a year of such
a struggle prove to us distracting . Oh, 'tis a
merciful provision Indeed that these poor
wretches should have had all sense of time
killed In them, and that their punishment
should lie In a perpetual cheating of hope too
short-lived as a remembrance to break their

hearts. Yet there were now two persons In
this Death Ship to whom such solace as was
permitted to the accurst crew would not be
granted, and who, if they could not get away
from the vessel, would have to lead a more
terrible life than even that of the Dutch
mariners, unless they destroyed themselves as
Captain Skevington had. And for some
time I could think of nothing but how I was
to rescue Miss Dudley and make my own
escape, for one thing I had already resolved :
never to leave the girl alone in this ship.

I HOLD A CONVERSATION WITH THE CREW.

There was nothing in sight. Indeed, in
that thick gale a vessel would have had to
come within a mile of us to be visible. As
Vanderdecken neither stirred nor spoke tome,
I feared he might take it ill if I hung by
his side, for how was I to tell but that he
might consider I should regard the withdrawal
of his attention as a hint to begone
I therefore walked aft, the second mate no
more heeding me than if I had been as viewless
as the air, whilst the helmsman, after
turning a small pair of glassy eyes upon me,
stained with veins, directed them again at
the sea over the bow, his face as sullenly
thoughtful as the others, albeit he handled

the tiller with good judgment, "meeting her,"
as we sailors say, when she needed it, and
holding a very clean and careful luff.

My curiosity being great I ventured to
peep into the binnacle, or " binnacle " as it
was formerly called, a fixed box or case for
holding the mariner's compass. The card
was very old-fashioned, as may be supposed,
yet it swung to the movement of the ship,
and I could not suppose that it was very
inaccurate since by the aid of it they periodically
made the land where they hunted for
meat and filled their casks. As neither
Vanderdecken nor Antony Arents offered to
hinder me from roaming about, I determined,
since I was about it, to take a good look at
this Death Ship. I examined the swivels
which were very green with decay, and tried
to revolve one on its pivot, but found that it
was not to be stirred. The tiller had been a
very noble piece of timber, but now presented
the aspect of rottenness that all the rest

of the wood in the ship had, yet It had
been very elegantly carved, and numerous
flourishes still overran It, though the meaning
of the devices was not to be come at. The
rudder head worked In a great helm-port,
through which a corpulent man of eighteen
stone might have slipped fair Into the sea
underneath. The gale made a melancholy
screeching In the skeleton lantern, and I
wondered they did not unship the worthless
thing and heave it overboard. I looked over
the side and as far down as I could carry my
sight, and I observed that the ship was of a
sickly sallow colour, not yellow — Indeed, of
no hue that I could give a name to, though
the original tint a painter might conjecture
by guessing what colour would yield this
nameless pallidness after years and years of
washing seas and the burning of the sun.

I then thought I would step forward, not
much minding the washing of the seas there,
and passed Vanderdecken very cautiously.

ready to stop If he should look at me, but he
remained in a trance, like a stone figure, all
the life of him gone into his eyes, which
glared burning and terrible at the same part
of the ocean at which he stared when I first
observed him starless ; so I stepped past and
descended to the quarter-deck, where there
was nothing to see, and thence to the upper
deck.

Here, near the mainmast, were two pumps
of the pattern I recollected noticing in a ship
that had been built in 1722, and that was
afloat and hearty and earning good money in
1 79 1. In front of the mast lay two boats,
one within the other, the under one on
chocks, both of the same pattern, namely,
square stern and stem, with lengths of the
gunwales projecting like horns. The top
one, for I could not see the inside of the
lower boat, had been painted originally a
bright scarlet ; she contained seats and half-a-dozen
of oars short and long, all with im-vol.

I. T

densely broad blades, which had also been
painted a bright red. The rusty guns, the
ends of gear snaking in the froth along the
scuppers, the cumbersomeness of the blocks
of the maintain, along with the other furniture
of that groaning and half-bursting sail, the
grey old cask answering for a scuttlebutt
lashed to the larboard side, the ancientness of
the tarpaulin over the great hatch ; these,
and a score of other details it would tease you
to hear me name, gave a most dismal and
wretched appearance to all this part of the
tossed, drenched, spray-clouded fabric labouring
under a sky that had darkened since the
morning, and against whose complexion the
edges of the sails showed with a raw and
sickly pallor, whilst above swung the great
barricaded tops and the masts and yards to
and fro, to and fro, how drearily and wearily !
The bulwarks being very high, enabled
me to dodge the seas as I crept forwards,
and presently I came abreast of the foremast,

where stood Jans, the boatswain, along with
three or four seamen, taking the shelter of a
sort of hutch, built very strong, whence proceeded
sounds of the grunting of hogs, and
the muttering of geese, hens and the like.
As I needed an excuse to be here — for these
fellows believed the time to be that of Cromwell
and Blake, and looked upon an Englishman
as an enemy, and, therefore, might round
upon me angrily for offering to overhaul their
ship — I said to Jans, in my civillest manner —

"Are the men who rescued me last night
here ? I shall be glad to thank them."

Yonder's Houtmann," said he, bluntly;
'* the other's below."

I turned to the man named Houtmann,
and saw in him an old sailor of perhaps
three-score, with a drooped head, his hands
in his pockets, a worn, wrinkled, melancholy
face, his complexion, like that of the others,
of the grave ; he was dressed in boots, loose
yellow, tarpaulin trousers, and a frock of the

same material ; he had a pilot-coat on, a good
sour-west cap — such as I myself wore aboard
the Saracen — sand there was a stout shawl
around his neck.

I put out my hand, and said, " Houtmann,
let an English sailor thank a brave Hollander
of his own calling for his life."

He did not smile — showed himself, by not
so much as a twitch in his face sensible of my
speech, save that in the most lifeless manner
in the world he held out his hand, which I
took ; but I was glad to let it fall. If ever a
hand had the chill of death to freeze mortal
flesh, his had that coldness. No other man's
skin in that ship had I before touched, though
my arm had been seized by Vanderdecken,
and this contact makes one of the most biting
memories of that time. Will you suppose
that the coldness was produced by the wet
and the wind ? Alas ! he withdrew his hand
from his pocket ; but, even had he raised it
from a block of ice, you would not, in the

bitter bleakness of the flesh, have felt, as I
did, the death in his veins, had he been as I
was.

The others were variously attired, in such
clothes as you would conceive a ship's slop-chest
would be fitted with from pickings of
vessels encountered and ransacked in a
hundred and fifty years. They had all of
them a Dutch cast of countenance, one looking
not more than thirty, another forty, and
so on. But there was something in them —
though God knows if my life were the stake
I should not be able to define it — that, backed
by the movements, complexions and the like,
made you see that with them time had become
eternity, and that their exteriors were
no more significant of the years they could
count than the effigy on the tomb of a man
represents the dust of him.

"It blows hard," said I to Jans, making the
most of my stock of Dutch, and resolved to
confront each amazing experience as it befel

me with a bold face. " But the Braave is a
stout ship and makes excellent weather."

'* So think the rats," exclaimed Houtmann,
addressing Jans.

"A plague on the rats!" cried Jans.
** There's but one remedy : when we get to
Table Bay the hold must be smoked with
sulphur."

I never knew rats multiply as they do in
this ship," said one of the sailors, named
Kryns ; "had we been ten years making the
passage from Batavia, the vermin could not
have increased more rapidly."

Where do the crew sleep ?'' said I.

Jans pointed over his shoulder with his
thumb to a hatch abreast of the after-end of
the forecastle bulwark. The cover was over
it, for there the spray was constantly shooting
up like steam from boiling water, and filling
the iron-hard hollow of the foresail with wet
which showered from under the arched foot-rope
in whole thunderstorms of rain. Otherwise

I should have asked leave to go below
and explore the forecastle, for no part of this
ship could, I thought, be more curious than
the place in which her crew lived, and I
particularly desired to see how they slept,
nay, to see them sleeping and to observe the
character of their beds, whether hammocks
or bunks, and their chests or bags for their
clothes.

I said, "It will be dark enough down therewith
the hatch closed ?"

'' Ay," said the youngest-looking of the
seamen, named Abraham Bothnia — I took
down their names afterwards from Imogene's
dictation, conceiving that the mentioning of
them would prove of interest to any descendants
of theirs in Holland into whose
hands this narrative might chance to fall —
*but we keep a lamp always burning."

'' But should you run short of oil !" said I,
timorously, for I had made up my mind to
pretend to one and all that I believed they

had sailed from Batavia in the preceding
year, and the question was a departure from
that resolution.

"Oil is easily got," exclaimed Jans, roughly.
'what use do you English make of the
porpoise and the grampus? Is not the sea-bird
full of it ? And fish you in any bay
along the coast 'twixt Natal and Cape Town,
and I'll warrant you livers enough to keep
your lamps burning for a voyage round the
world. And what ship with coppers aboard
can be wanting in slush ?"

Heer Jans," said I, "I am a sailor and
love to hear the opinions of persons of my
own calling. Therefore I would ask you, do
not you consider your ship greatly hampered
forward by yonder sprit - topmast and the
heavy yards there ?" And to render myself
perfectly Intelligible, I pointed to the mast
that I have already described as being fixed
upright at the end of the bowsprit, rising,
so to speak, out of a round top there, and

having a smaller top on the upper end of

it.

How would you have her rigged ?" asked

he, in a sneering manner.

Why," said I, cautiously, " as most of
the ships you meet are rigged — with a jib-boom
upon which you can set more useful
canvas than sprltsails."

On this, Bothnia said, " Let your country
rig its ships as It chooses, they will find the
Dutch know more about the sea and the art
of navigating and commanding It than your
nation has stomach for."

I could have smiled at this, but the voice
of the man, the deadness of his face, the
terrifying life in his eyes, the sombre gravity
of the others, standing about me like people
in their sleep, were such a corrective of
humour as might have made a braver man
than I am tremble. I dared not go on talking
with them, Indeed, their looks caused me
to fear for mv senses, so without further ado

I walked aft and entered the cabin hoping to
find warmth and recovery for my mind In the
beauty and conversation of Imogene.

The cabin was deserted. The darkness of
the sky made It very gloomy, and what with
its meagre furniture, the unhealthy colouring
of Its walls, trappings of gilt and handwork,
once I daresay very brilliant and delightful,
but now as rueful as a harlequin's faded dress
seen by the sun, It was a most depressing
interior, particularly In such weather as was
then storming, when the ceaseless thunder of
bursting surges drove shock after shock of
tempestuous sound through the resonant
fabric, and when the shrieking of the wlnd»
not only In the rigging but along the floor of
the stormy sky Itself, was like the frantic
tally-going of demons to the million hounds
of the blast.

Not knowing how to pass the time, I went
to the old, framed pictures upon the sides,
and found them to be panels fitted to the

ship's plank, and framed so as to form as
much a part of the structure as the carving
on her stern would be. But time, neglect,
dirt or damp — one or all — had so befouled or
darkened the surfaces that most of them were
more like the heads of tar barrels than paintings.
Yet here and there I managed to
witness a glimmering survival of the artist's
work ; one representing the fish market at
Amsterdam, such of the figures as were plain
exhibiting plenty of humour ; another a Dutch
East Indiamen, of Vanderdecken's period,
sailing along with canvas full, streamers
blowing, and the Batavia colours standing
out large from the ensign staff ; a third was a
portrait, but nothing was left of it save a
nose whose ruddy tip time had evidently
fallen in love with, for there it still glowed,
a mouth widely distended with laughter, and
one merry little eye, the other having sunk
like a star in the dark cloud that overspread
most of this panel. This, I supposed, had

been the portrait of a sailor, for so much of
the remainder as was determinable all related
to Amsterdam and things nautical. Having
made this dismal round, I sat me down at the
table, sternly and closely watched by the
parrot, whose distressing, croaking assurance
I had no wish to hear, she being my only
company if I except the clock, whose hoarse
ticking was audible above the gale, and the
skeleton skulking inside, whose hourly resurrection
I was now in the temper to as greatly
dislike as the bird's iterative denunciation.

I wondered how the young lady contrived
to pass her time. Had she books? If so,
they would doubtless be dull performances in
old Dutch, fat and wormy volumes bound
in hard leather — as sluggish in their matter
as a canal, and very little calculated to amuse
a spirited girl. Evidently, in the five years
she had been sailing with Vanderdecken, she
had learnt what she knew of Dutch ; she
spoke fluently, and with a good accent,

though, to be sure, it was the Dutch of 1650.
I constantly directed my eyes towards her
cabin, in the hope of seeing her emerge, for
I felt mighty dull and sad, and longed for
the sight of her fair and golden beauty ; and
all the while I was wondering how she had
endured, without losing her mind, the dreadful
imprisonment she had undergone and
was yet undergoing, and the still more
fearful association of the captain and his
men.

I also employed myself in turning over
several schemes for escaping with her, but
nothing that was really practicable offered.
Suppose we met with an unsuspecting ship —
I mean a vessel that did not know we were
the craft that has been called the Flying
Dutchman — Vanderdecken, being willing to
get rid of me, sends me to her in a boat. I
cry out that there is a young lady left behind
breaking her heart for home, whereupon explanations
would follow to prove the vessel

the Death Ship! What would happen? In
all probability, if I had managed to board the
vessel we met, her crew, to preserve her from
the Curse, would fling me overboard. In
any case, away they would run directly the
truth was known. Indeed, acquainted as I
was with the terror with which Vanderdecken
was viewed by all classes of mariners, 'twas
positive that, though he had no suspicion
himself of the dread he inspired, the story
that would have to be told concerning Miss
Dudley to account for her detention in the
Phantom Ship would end in resolving those
we encountered to have nothing to do with
either her or me, but to bear a hand and
*' up sticks !"

As to getting away with her In one of the
Dutchman's boats, first, how was I to hoist
the boat over the side unperceived ? Next,
suppose that was to be managed, then on his
missing us would not Vanderdecken, a man
of fierce resolution, hunt after and perhaps

find us, when I should be at the mercy of one
in whom there was a great deal of the devil,
and who, Heaven knows, could not revenge
himself more awfully than by keeping me in
his ship. Several projects I thought of, and
then a strange idea came into my head.
Here was a girl without mother or father,
and, as I gathered, entirely friendless and
penniless, as indeed in this latter article she
could hardly help being as the child of a
sailor. Suppose I should succeed in escaping
with her? How could an association such as
ours end but in a wedding ? And did that
consideration agitate me ? Faith, though I
had only known her since this morning, I
reckoned, being young and in an especial
degree an admirer and lover of the kind of
beauty and sweetness this girl had in perfection,
it would not need many days to pass
before my heart would be hers.

Forthwith my imagination grew sunny.
Many bright and delightful ideas occurred tome.

Would not my tremendous experience
find a glorious crowning in the hand of this
girl and her endowment by Vanderdecken,
who loved her, out of those chests of treasure
and coin which he had in his hold ? Would
it be impossible for me to persuade him, say
after the next gale which blew him back from
Agulhas, to put us aboard some vessel homeward
bound along with a chest of treasure for
his wife as an earnest of what was coming,
and so enable me to convey Miss Dudley
straight to Amsterdam there to await his
arrival? It was but a young man's fancy,
pretentious and inconsistent with my opinion
of the captain's temper and his ignorance of
the Curse that lay on him ; and it was not
perhaps strictly honest. Though if you come
to consider that his doom would never suffer
him to use the riches he had in his ship, nor
to know whether I had faithfully carried Miss
Dudley to his house on the Buitenkant —
where I afterwards heard he was living when

he sailed — you will not judge me harshly for
thus idly and merrily dreaming.

I was in the midst of this castle-buildings
when the hour of noon was struck by the
clock. I watched the figure of Death hewing
with his lance, but with an abstracted eye,
my mind being full of gay and hopeful fancies.
But the moment the last stroke had rung, the
parrot cried out : —

"lag Z^n al Deutomct!"
with so fierce an energy that it broke up my
thoughts as you destroy a spider's web by
passing your finger through it, and I dropped
my chin on to my breast with my spirits
dashed.

END OF VOLUME I.

VOL. I.

TILl.OTSON AND SON, MAWI.M.EV STREET
BOLTON

Stack"'

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/deathshipstrange02russ

A STRANGE STORY ;

AN Account OF A CUUlSfc; IN THE Irving Dutchman, (Collected

From THE PAPERS OF THE LATE MK. Geoffrey Fenton, OF Poplar,

MASTER Marine.

W. CLARK RUSSELL,

Al Thus OF
HE WRECK OF THE GROSVENOR," " THE GOLDEN HOPE," "a SEA QUEEN,
ETC., ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II

LONDON
HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED
13, GREAT Marlborough STREET


All Rights Reserved

ILLOTSON AND SON, MAWDSI.EY STKt-HT

BOLTON

CONTENTS

THE SECOND \' O L U M E

CH\;'TER.

r-imagine Sav SHE WILL TRUST ME
IL-VANDEKDECKEN EXHIHnS SOME TREASURE
III. Imagine AND I ARE MUCH TOGETHER
IV.— THE GALE BREAKS

V. - THE DEATH Ship's FORECASTLE
VI. — WE SIGHT A Sir
VII. — WE WATCH THE SHIP APPROACH US
VI 11. — THE CENTAUR FLIES FROM US.

IX.— VANPERDECKEN WALKS IN HIS SLEEP

X.- WE SIGHT A DISMASTED WRECK
XL— THE DEAD HELMSMAN
XII. — THE DUTCH SAILORS Board THE WRECK

PAGE.

I
















CHAl'TKR. PAGE.

XIII. — THE DUTCHMAN OBTAINS REFRESHMENTS . . 227

XIV. — MY LIFE IS Attempted 239

XV.— MY sweetheart's JOY 257

CHAPTER I.

IMOGENE SAYS SHE WILL TRUST ME.

A HALF-hour passed, and during that time
I had sufficiently recovered from the distressful
croak of the parrot to wonder, as any
sailor would, how the ship was navigated ;
for I could not doubt that the clock kept
pretty close to the true time, since the easting
and westing made by the ship was small,
never, perhaps, exceeding ten degrees ; and
the circumstance of noon having struck set
me wondering in what fashion the captain
and mates navigated the ship, whether they
VOL. n. B

used the cross-staff or relied on dead reckoning,
or were supernaturally conned.

At half-past twelve arrived Prins, to prepare
the table for dinner. I was so dull that
his coming was extremely welcome, and I
watched him go about his work with interest,
not, perhaps, unmixed with fear. Out of the
great drawer, under the table, he withdrew
the cloth, knives, forks, silver goblets and
the like, which had been set out for breakfast
; but his movements were those of a
maronite rather than a man's, he scarcely
looked at what he did, putting a goblet here,
a knife and fork there and so on, with the
lifeless air of an object controlled by
mechanism. Small wonder that the unhappy
wretch should know his business ! He had
been at it long enough ! Yet it wrung my
heart to watch him and to think that he
would still be arranging the cabin tables for
meals, and attending upon Vanderdecken and
his mates when Heaven alone knows how

many times the wave of civilisation should
have followed the sun round the globe, and
how often our British Islands should have
lapsed into their ancient savageness and
emerged again.

Whilst he was at this work, Miss Dudley
stepped out of her cabin. She came to a
stand, not instantly recognising me in my own
clothes, but quickly satisfying herself, she advanced
with a smile and sat down near me,
with no further sign of timidity than a slight
blush which greatly heightened her beauty.

Where is Captain \^anderdecken ?" said
she.

I left him on deck three-quarters of an
hour since," I answered. "We were talking
when he suddenly broke off, and I should
have supposed him in a fit but for his erect
posture and the fiery life in his eyes."

This happens to them all," said she, " as
you will find out. I do not know what it
means or whv it should be."

'' Possibly," I exclaimed, recalling the conjecture
I have already written down, " the
death In them grows too strong at periods,
for the powder that sustains them, be It demoniac
or not, and then follows a failure of the
vitality of the body, which yet leaves the
spirit — as one sees It flashing In Wanders
eyes — strong enough to recover the
corporeal forces from their languor. But
how terrible Is all this for you to be living
familiarly with ! — the sweet, fresh, human
life of the world your beauty would adorn
and gladden, hidden from you behind the
melancholy sea-line, and the passage of
months, yes, and of years, finding you still
aimlessly beating about these waters, with no
better companions than beings more frightful
In their shapes and behaviour as men than
where they phantoms which the hand could
not grasp and whose texture the eye can
pierce."

*what can I do, Mr. Fenton ? Captain

Vanderdecken will not part with me. How
can I escape ?" she cried, with her eyes
brimming. "If I cast myself overboard,
it would be to drown ; if I succeeded in
gaining the shore when we anchored near
to the coast, it would be either to perish
upon the broiling sands, or be destroyed by
wild beasts, or be seized by the natives and
carried into captivity."

** But if a chance offered to make good
your escape without the risks you name,
would you seize it ?"

'' Oh, yes !"

"Well," said I, speaking with such tenderness
and feeling, such a glow and yearning in
my heart that you would say the tiny seed of
love in my breast, watered by her tears, was
budding with the swiftness of each glance at
her into flower, "whilst I have been sitting
melancholy and alone I have turned over in
my mind how I am to deliver you from this
dreadful situation. No scheme as yet offers,

but will you trust me as an English sailor to
find a means to outwit these Dutchmen, ay,
though the Devil himself kept watch when
they were abed ? . . One moment, Miss
Dudley — forgive me, it had not been my
intention to touch upon this matter until time
had enabled you to form some judgment of
me. But when two are of the same mind,
and the pit that has to be jumped is a deep
one, it would be mere foppery in me to stand
on the brink with you, chattering like a
Frenchman about anything else sooner than
speak out and to the point as a plain seaman
should."

"Mr. Fenton," she answered, *' I well trust
you. If you can see a way to escape from
this ship I will aid you to the utmost of my
strength and accompany you. You are a
sailor ; my father was of that calling, and as
an English seaman you shall have my full
faith."

It was not only the words, but her pretty

voice, her sparkling eyes, her earnest gaze,
the expression of hope that Halted up her face
with the radiance of a smile rather than of
a smile itself, which rendered what she said
delightful to me. I answered, " Depend upon
it your faith will animate me, and it will be
strange if you are not in England before
many months, nay, let me say weeks, have
passed."

Here leaning her cheek in her hand she
looked down into her lap with a wistful
sadness in her eyes.

Not conceiving what was passing in her
mind, I said, " Whatever scheme I hit upon
will take time. But what are a few months
compared with years on board this ship —
years which only death can end !"

"Oh!" she answered, looking at me fully,
but with a darkness of tears upon those violet
lights, " I don't doubt your ability to escape
and rescue me, nor was I thinking of the
time you would require or how long it maybe

before we see England. What troubles
me is to feel that when in England — if it
please God to suffer me to set foot once more
upon that dear soil — I shall have no friend to
turn to." I was about to speak, but she
proceeded, her eyes brimming afresh : " It is
rare that a girl finds herself in my situation.
Both my father and mother were only
children and orphans when they married, my
mother living with a clergyman and his wife
at Rotherhithe as governess to their children
when my father met her. The clergyman
and his lady are long since dead. But were
they living, they would not be persons I
should apply to for help and counsel, since
my mother often spoke of them as harsh,
mean people. The few relations on my
mothers side died off; on my father's side
there was — perhaps there yet is — an uncle
who settled in Virginia and did pretty well
there. But I should have to go to that
country to seek him with the chance of finding

him dead. Thus you will see how
friendless I am, Mr. Fenton."

"You are not of those who remain friendless
in this world," said I, softly, for can
you marvel that a young man's heart will
beat quickly when such a beauty as Imogene
Dudley is, tells him to his face that she is
friendless. "I implore you" I added, 'not
to suffer any reflection of this sort to sadden
or swerve you in your determination to leave
this ship "

No, no !" she interrupted, " it will not do
that. Better to die of famine among the
green meadows at home than — oh !" she cried,
with hysterical vehemence, "how sweet will
be the sight of flowers to me, of English
trees, and hedges blooming with briar roses
and honeysuckles. This dreadful life !" she
clasped her hands with a sudden passionate
raising of her eyes, " these roaring seas, the
constant screaming of the wind that bates its
tones only to make a desolate moaning, the

company of ghost-like men, the fearful sense
of being in a ship upon which has fallen the
wrath of the majesty of God ! Oh, indeed,
indeed it must end !" and burying her face in
her hands she wept most grievously, sobbing
aloud.

'what will end, mynheer? And what is
it that causes thee, Imogene, to weep?" exclaimed
the deep, vibratory voice of Wanders


I started, and found his great figure erect
behind me, a certain inquisitiveness in the
expression of his face, and much of the light
shining in his eyes that I had remarked
when he fell into that posture of trance I
have spoken of. I answered as readily
as my knowledge of his tongue permitted,
*' Miss Dudley weeps, sir, because this
gale, as others have before, retards the
passage of your ship to Amsterdam ; and
'tis perfectly natural, consistent, indeed, with
the wishes of all men in the Braave, that

she should wish the baulking storm at an
end."

He came round to his high-backed chair,
and seated himself, and, putting his arm
along the table, gently took Imogene's wrist,
and softly pulled her hand away from her
face, wet with her tears, saying, " My dear,
your fellow-countryman is right ; it is the
sorrow of every creature here that this gale
should blow us backwards, and so delay our
return ; but what is more capricious than the
wind ? This storm will presently pass, and it
will be strange," he added, with a sudden -
scowl darkening his brow, and letting go
Miss Dudley's hand as he spoke, "if next
time we do not thrust the Braave into an
ocean where these north-western make way
for the strong trade wind that blows from
the south-east."

She dried her eyes and forced a smile,
acting a part as I did ; that is to say, she did
not wish he should suspect her grief went

deeper than I had explained ; though I
could not help observing that in directing
her wet, sweet, violet eyes, with her mouth
shaped to a smile, upon him, a plaintive
gratitude underlay her manner, an admixture
of pity and affection, the exhibition of which
made me very sure of the quality of her
heart.

To carry Vanderdecken's thoughts away
from the subject he supposed Miss Dudley
and I had been speaking about, I asked her
in Dutch what she had been doing with herself
since breakfast. She answered in the
same language that she had been lying down.

Have you books ?" said I.

A few that belong to the captain. Some
are in French and I cannot read them. The
others are in Dutch. There is also a collection
of English poetry, some of which
is beautiful, and I know many verses by
heart."

Are these works pretty new ?" said I.

She answered, " Of various years ; the
newest, I think, is dated 1647."

"Ay," said Vanderdecken, 'that will be
my friend Boys Van Treslong's book upon
the tulip-madness."

Finding him willing to converse, I was
extremely fretted to discover that, owing to
my ignorance of the literature and art of his
time, I could not "bring him out" as the
phrase runs, for looking into the Batavia
story since, I find scores of matters he could
have told me about, such as the building of
ships at Horn, the customs of the people,
the tulip-madness he had mentioned, the
great men such as Jan Six, Rembrandt, Jan
Steen, Van Camden who designed the Stad-
huis and others, some of whom — as happened
in the case of the great Willem Schouten —
he may have known and haply smoked pipes
of tobacco with.

But be this as it may, we had got back
again to the gale when Prins brought in the

dinner, and In a few minutes arrived the mate,
Van Vogelaar, whereupon we fell to the meal,
Imogene saying very little and often regarding
me with a thoughtful face and earnest
eyes as though, after the maiden's way in such
matters, she was searching me ; I taciturn, the
mate sullen in expression and silent, as his
death-like face would advertise the beholder
to suppose him ever to be, and Vanderdecken
breaking at intervals from the deep musing
fit he fell into to Invite me to eat or drink
with an air of incomparable dignity, hardened
as it was by his eternal sternness and
fierceness.

At this meal I found the food to be much
the same as that with which we had broken
our fast. But in addition there was a roasted
fowl and a large ham ; and into each silver
goblet Prins poured a draught of sherry — a
very soft and mellow wine — which I supposed
Vanderdecken had come by through
the same means which enabled him to obtain

coats for his own and his men's backs, and
ropes for his masts and sails, and brandy and
gin for his stone jars— that is, by overhauling
wrecks and pillaging derelicts, for certainly
strong waters were not to be got by lying off
the coast and going a-hunting.

Yet though the wine put a pleasant
warmth into my veins, insomuch that I
could have talked freely but for the depressing
influence of the captain and his mate,
them it no more cheered and heartened, it
gave them no more life and spirit than had
they been urns filled with dust into which the
generous liquor had been poured. Several
times. Indeed, whilst I was on board that ship,
have 1 seen Vanderdecken, Vogelaar, and
Arents swallow such draughts of punch out
of bowls, as would have laid me senseless In
five minutes, yet these capacious jorums gave
rise in them to not the least signs of jollity ;
as, indeed, how should it have been otherwise,
for their brains were dead to all but

the supernatural Influence that kept them
moving — dead as the works of a going watch
and what is there in the fumes of wine to
disorder embodied ghosts ?

VANDERDECKEN EXHIBITS SOME TREASURE.

When Vogelaar left the cabin to relieve
Arents on deck, Vanderdecken exhibited a
disposition to talk. He gently took Imogene's
chin in his hand and chided her very tenderly,
yet without the slightest quality of what we
should call pleasantness in his manner. For
this would have brought him to some show
of good-humour, whereas never during the
time I was thrown with him did I see the
least light of merriment on his face; I say, he
chided her, but very gently, for crying at the
delay caused by the storm, and exclaimed,
motioning to me, " Here is a seaman. He
will tell you that this is a stormy part of the
ocean, and that at this season of the year we
VOL. II. c

must look for gales from the north-west ; but
he will also know that these tempests are
short-lived and that a breeze from the east,
north or south, must carry us round the Cape
as fairly as our helm controls us."

'' Oh ! that is so indeed, Miss Dudley,"
said I, quickly, and darting a meaning glance
at her ; and wishing to change the subject
I went on : '' Mynheer, when I was In your
cabin last night shifting myself, I noticed a
cross-staff 'Twould be of no use to you
to-day, the sun being blotted out. Failing
an observation, upon what method do you
rely for knowing your position ?"

'what else but the log?" he exclaimed.
*' I compute entirely by dead-reckoning. The
staff hath often set me wide of the mark.
The log fairly gives me my place on the sea
card, and then there is the lead."

I bowed by way of thanking him, for in
this direction I gathered by his rejoinder as
much as he could have acquainted me within

an hour's discourse, besides, the earnest
regard of the pair of sweet light eyes opposite
reminded me that I must be very wary in
showing myself inquisitive.

You have a sharp sight, sir," said
Vanderdecken, but speaking without any
fierceness, '* to see that fore-staff in my cabin
by the faint light there was. What else did
you observe ?"

I told him honestly, for I could imagine no
challenge to his wrath in answering, that I
had seen a speaking-trumpet, sand-glass,
pictures, and the like. But as though
Imogene knew him better and desired to
shield me, she instantly said, *' Oh, captain,
will not you show Mr. Fenton the pictures of
your wife and children ? They will charm
him, I know."

On this he called Prins to bring the pictures.
If ever I had doubted this ship was
the veritable Flying Dutchman the portraits
would have settled my misgivings once and

for all. The material on which they were
painted was cracked in places, and the darkness
of age lay very gloomy and thick upon
them. They were all of a size, about ten
inches long and six inches broad. He put
his wife before me first and watched me with
his fierce eyes whilst I pored upon the painting.
The picture was that of a portly lady
in a black close-fitting cap, the hair yellowy
the bosoms very large, a square-shouldered
heavy woman of the true Dutch mould, round-faced,
not untimely, and perhaps of five and
forty years of age. How she was dressed I
could not tell, but the arms were bare from
the elbows, and they and the hands where,
methought, very delicately painted and exquisitely
life-like. The others were those of
girls of different ages. Which of them Captain
Vanderdecken Imagined Miss Dudley to
resemble I could not conceive; there was
nothing in these darksome likenesses, albeit
they represented maidenhood and Infancy, to

suggest a resemblance to the English beauty
of the fragile, large-eyed, gold-crowned face
of Imogene Dudley.

She that was named Geertrulda was of a
style that came close to brood looks, eves
merry, dainty mouth, but cheeks too fat.
Here was little Margaretha, for whom the
piping swain had been purchased, peering at
me with a half-shy, half-wondering look out
of the dusky background.

As I returned them one by one, the captain
took them from me, lingering long upon each
and making such comments as "tis Johanna
to the life I" meaning his wife. "What artis
more wonderful than this of portrait painting
? Xo age is likely to beat our time, and
no nation the Dutch. How alive is the eye
here ! Methinks if I spoke angrily to her
she would weep!" or 'you will find this girl,"
meaning Gertrude, "a true sister, Imogene,
homely, honest and innocent, so fond of fun
but vet so dutiful, that there is no woman in

all Holland who would make a better wife*
or "Ah! little one, thy father will be with
thee ere long," stopping to kiss the painting
of his daughter Margaretha.

Prins stood by to receive the pictures, but
Vanderdecken hung over this one for some
minutes, falling motionless, insomuch that I
thought another one of his strange fits or
trances had seized him ; and perfectly still for
those moments were Miss Dudley and I,
often glancing at each other as though both
of us alike felt the prodigious significance
imported into this spectacle of a father's love,
by the bellowing of the wind, and the long,
yearning, sickening, broadside rushes of the
ship, ruthlessly hurled back by the surge and
storm into the deeper solitude of those waters
whose confines she was never to pass.

Now Arents left the table, never having
given us, nor our talk, nor the pictures, the
smallest imaginable heed. His going brought
Vanderdecken back to life, so to speak ; and

But oh, the sadness, the sadness of the
spectacle I had contemplated ! This tender
perusal by a husband and father of the beloved
lineaments of those whom he deemed
living, ay ! and still looking as they looked at
him from the canvas, but who had been dead
so many years that time had perhaps erased
the name from the stone that marked the

burial-place of the youngest of them all — the
little Margaretha ! ind how much longer
would these portraits last, I asked myself ?
'Twas certain by the evidences of decay in
them that they had not the vitality of the
ship and of those who sailed her. What
then ? The years would blot them out. Yet
mercy he would surely deserve who loved
his wife and children as this man did. And
I still sometimes fondly hope that memory
may be permitted to serve him in lieu of
his eyes, so that in gazing upon the time-blackened
canvas he may as truly see with
intellectual sight the faces of his dear ones
as though they stood out bright, fresh and
life-like, as at the hour in which they were
painted.

All the time I looked at these pictures
I would notice Miss Dudley watching me,
quickly averting her gaze when mine met
hers. I put down this scrutiny to her wish
to gather my character, though I need not at

this distance expect to be reproached for my
vanity if I say that I thought that was not
her only reason for following me with her
eyes. I pray you consider the life she had
led since the destruction of her father's ship
and the loss of her parents ; how that she
was now grown to be a woman ; and how
that I was not only a young, but bright,
fair, merry-eyed sailor, her own countryman,
of the calling she loved for her father's sake,
and the sweeter to her sight for breaking in
upon her mournful life and offering to snatch
her from the frightful companionship of the
Death Ship's crew.

But more of this anon.

Whilst Prins was in the captain's cabin
hanging up the pictures, she exclaimed, " It
is a dull and dreary day. How are we to
kill the time ?"

As she spoke the clock struck, and the
parrot, instead of using her customary expression,
laughed out loudly, " Hal ha! ha'*

'that bird," said I, "seems to know what
we are talking about. It is a pretty notion
of hers to laugh at your inquiry when she
sees how vainly old Death in the clock
yonder stabs at time."

This I spoke in English.

*' What do you say, mynheer ?" demanded
Vanderdecken.

"Oh, captain!" exclaimed Miss Imogene,
as if she was carrying on the sense of my
remarks, " could not we prettily dispatch an
hour by looking at some of the treasure you
have below .•^" She laid her little white hand
on his, and pleaded with her eyes. "It will
be a treat to Mr. Fenton to see the fine
things you have, and I am still childish
enough to love the sparkle of precious stones."

He turned to me and said, "Sir, I have
no objection, but our countries are at war,
and in case of your being transhipped I have
to ask you, on your honour as a gentleman
and a seaman, not to give information of

the objects the lady desires me to show
you."

I never before witnessed a finer dignity in
any man's air than that which ennobled him
as he spoke. I gave him my assurance,
feeling that I cut but a mean figure in my
manner of answering after his own majestic
and haughty aspect and the rich and thrilling
tones in which he had delivered himself, nor
will I pretend that I was not moved at the
vanity and idleness of the obligation of silence
he imposed upon me, for whatever treasure
he had would be as safe in his ship as on the
sandy bed of the sea, even though on my
escaping I should go and apprise all the
admirals in the world of its existence.

He said no more but, calling to Prins,
ordered him to clear the table, bring pipes
and tobacco, and then take some seamen with
him into — as I understood — the half-deck and
bring up two chests of treasure, those which
were lashed on the starboard side, close

against the bulkhead. The cloth was removed,
we lighted our pipes, and after we
had waited some little while, Prins, with
several sailors, appeared, bearing among
them two stout, apparently very heavy,
chests, which they set down upon the cabin
floor, taking care to secure them by lashings
and seizings to the sanctions, so that they
should not slip with the ship's lurches.

The sailors interested me so much that,
whilst they were with us, I looked only at
them. It was not that there was anything in
their faces, if I except the dreadful pallor, orin
their attire, to fix my attention ; it was
that they were a part of the crew of this
accurst ship, participators in the doom that
Vanderdecken had brought upon her, members
of a ghostly band the like of which
it might never be permitted to mortal man to
behold again. One had very deep-sunk eyes,
which shone in their dark hollows with much
■of the fire that gave a power of terrifying to

those of the captain. Another had a long,
grizzly beard, over which his nose curved in a
hook, his little eyes lay close against the top
of his nose, and his hair, that was wet with
spray or rain, lay like new-gathered seaweed
down to pretty near his shoulder-blades.
This man's name, I afterwards heard, was
Tjaart Van der V^aldt, whilst he that had the
glowing eyes was called Christopher Roostoff.
They all went about in the soulless,
mechanical way I was now used to, and,
when they had set down the chests, Prins
dismissed them with an injunction to stand
by ready to take them below again. The
cases were about three feet high, and ranging
about five feet long ; they were heavily girt
with iron bands, and padlocked with massive
staples. Prins opened them and flung back
the lids, and then, to be sure, I looked down
upon treasures the like of which in quality,
I'll not say quantity, in one single ship, the
holds of the Acapulco galleons could alone

rival, or the caves in which the old buccaneers
hid their booty. Miss Dudley, seeing
me rise, left her seat, and came to my side.
Vanderdecken stepped round, and leaned
aofalnst the table, his arms folded, and his

o

body moving only with the rolling of the
ship.

I should speedily grow tedious were I to
be minute in my description of what I saw,
yet I must venture a short way In this direction.
In one box there were fitted four trays,
each tray divided into several compartments,
and every compartment was filled with
precious stones, set In rings, bracelets,
bangles and the like, and with golden ornaments,
such as birds for the hair, brooches,
reckless, chains for wearing about the waist
or neck, and other such things of prodigious
value and beauty of device. I asked leave
to examine some of these objects, and on
picking them up noticed that some were
of a much more antique character than

Others, insomuch that I said to Miss Imogene
in English, "I suspect that much of
these splendours our friend will have collected
at different periods."

She answered in our tongue, "He can tell
you what he purchased at Batavia, or what
was consigned to him for delivery at Amsterdam,
but his memory after that is a blank,
and the last wreck he can recall, in which he
found several quintals of silver and united
gold, is the Fryheid that he met — I cannot
tell where — in a sinking condition."

"There is more treasure aboard than this""
cried I.

Much more !" she replied. Then turning
to \^anderdecken, who had fixed his eyes on
me without moving his head, she said, " I
am telling Mr. Fenton that these chests
represent but a handful of the treasure in
this ship."

I am dazzled by what I see, mynheer,'
said I, speaking whilst Prins raised the trays

disclosing many hundreds of guineas' worth
of ornaments and stones. " Had I but the
value of one of these trays alone this should
be my last voyage."

"Ay," said he, "there Is much that Is
beautiful here. Much that will yield good
sums. But a larQ^e number of the articles In
that chest belongs to a merchant ; there are
likewise consignments, and my own share Is
but a speculation."

The other chest had but one tray, In which
lay many golden crucifixes of different sizes,
goblets, flagons, candlesticks, all gold, whilst
beneath were numbers of a kind of small
bricks or bars of pewter, which Miss Imogene
told me were gold that had been originally
disguised In this way as a blind to the pirates.
In addition were several great canvas bags,
into which Prins, moving always as an
automaton, thrust his hand, bringing forth
different sorts of coins, such as rlx-dollars,
educations, ducats, Batavia rupees, Spanish

There Is a pleasure in looking at bright
and sparkling objects, at the beauty of gold
worked into strange or fantastic shapes, at
jewels and stones in their multitude, gleaming
out In twenty colours at once. And
had I been a picaroon or a woman, I could
not have surveyed this collection with sharper
delight, though I hope you will not suppose
that I felt the buccaneer's thirst for the
things. But when my glance went to ,
all the shining seemed to die out,
and the richest of the jewels to lose its
glory.

Not that this was actually so ; it was the
reflection excited in me that darkened the
radiance of that treasure. There stood the
great, majestic captain, with his arms folded
over his beard, and his eyes fixed on the
chest, frightfully symbolising — more wildly
and sternly than could the corpse of a miser

VOL. II. D

lying In a coffin, Into which had been poured
all the ducats he had hoarded in his life —
the worthlessness of that wealth of which the
desire makes devils of men In secret oppressions
and bitter, hidden cruelties. Had 
been veritably dead — recumbent —
a corpse — the sight of him alongside those
cases of costly things would not haply have
affected me ; 'twas the simulation of life in
him, his unhallowed and monstrous vitality,
that rendered his typification of the uselessness
after death of that for which many
among us sell our hearts, nay, diligently toil
to extinguish the last spark of the Heavenly
fire which the Creator sends us Into this life
radiant with ; as who, looking at a babe's
face, but sees ? — that rendered, I say, his
typification terrible. You could see he took
no joy whatever in the contents of the
cases ; he eyed them stonily ; you witnessed
no pricking up of his ears to the tinkling and
jingling rattle made by the coins as Prins

poured them out and back again. Nor, had
the money been shingle and the jewels and
gold ornaments pieces of coal, could Prins
have worked with duller eyes or more
mechanical motions.

I said to Miss Imogene, pointing as I
spoke to the chests that Vanderdecken might
suppose we talked of the treasure in them,
^' He does not appear to care the snap of a
finger for what is there. If the sense of
possession is dead in him, why should he take
whatever he can find of jewels, gold or silver,
from the ships in which he is fortunate
enough to find such things ?"

''If your brain will not help you to such
matters, how should mine ?" she replied, with
a faint smile. "The idea has never before
occurred to me, but be sure 'tis a part of his
punishment. He may feel no pleasure in the
possession of his wealth ; yet he knows it is
on board, and it may be intended to render
every gale that beats him back more and

more bitter and hard by delaying him from
carrying his cargo home."

This was shrewdly imagined, I thought,
though it did not satisfy me, because since
'twas sure that he had lost recollection of
preceding gales, succeeding ones could not
gain in bitterness. In truth, we were afloat
in a fearful and astonishing Mystery, from
which my eagerness to deliver the sweet and
fragrant girl by my side grew keener with
every look of hers that met mine, and with
every glance I directed at the captain and
around the ancient interior that time had
sickened to the complexion of the death
which worked this ship in the forms of men.

Having satisfied me with a sight of these
treasures, Vanderdecken ordered Prins to
have the chests removed, and we then returned
to the table to smoke out the tobacco
that remained in our pipes.

IMOGENE AND I ARE MUCPI TOGETHER.

So far I have been minute, accounting for
every hour and all things which happened
therein since I was picked up by the mate of
the Death Ship and put aboard her. My
first impressions were keen and strong, and I
have sought to lay them before you in the
order in which they occurred. But to pursue
this particularity of narrative, to relate every
conversation, to regularly notice the striking
of the clock, the movements of the skeleton,
and the hoarse comminatory croak of the
parrot, would be to speedily render this tale
tedious. Therefore let me speak briefly fora
little space.

The storm blew with steady fury for six

days, driving the tall fabric to leeward to a
distance of many leagues every twenty-four
hours, the course of the drift being as I should
suppose — for it was impossible to put much
faith in the compasses — about south-east by
east, the larboard tacks aboard and the ship
watching " nothing. It was so continuous
and heavy, this gale, that it began to breed a
feeling of despair in me, for I felt that if such
weather lasted many weeks it would end insetting
us so far south that wee should be
greatly out of the road taken by ships rounding
the Cape, and so remote from the land,
that should Vanderdecken desire to careen or
water his vessel it would occupy us months
to fetch the coast, so that the prospect of
escaping with Miss Imogene grew small and
gloomy. Added to which was the melancholy
of the cell-like cabin in which it was
my lot to sleep, the fiery rawlings, the savage
squeaking of great rats, the grinding, groaning
and straining noises of the labouring

But Imogene was never in the least degree
discomposed. She was so used to the ship
that its movements were to her what the
steadiness of dry land is to other women.
She seldom came on deck however. Indeed,
the gusts and guns were often so fierce —
coming along like thunderbolts through the
gale itself — that any one of them catching
her Q^own might have carried her lio^ht
figure overboard. Moreover, twenty-four

hours after the gale set In, it drew up thick
as mud ; the horizon was brought within
reach of a musket-shot ; and out of this
thickness blew the rain, in straight lines,
mixed with the showering off the heads of
the seas ; the sky hung steady, of the colour
of slate — no part lighter or darker than
another, but so low that it appeared as if a
man could whip his hand Into it from our
masthead whenever those reeling spars came
plumb.

As It gave me no pleasure to linger on
deck in such weather, you may suppose that
Miss Imogene and I were much together
below. Often a whole morning or afternoon
would pass without a soul entering the cabin
where we sate. Whether \"anderdecken was
pleased to think that Imogene had a companions
fellow-countryman, with whom she
could converse, and so kill the time which
he would suspect from her recent fit of weeping
hung heavy on her spirits ; or that,

having himself long passed those marks which
time sets up as the boundaries of human passions,
he was as incapable of suspecting that
Imogene and I should fall in love, as he
clearly was of perceiving the passage of
years ; 'tis certain he never exhibited the
smallest displeasure when, perchance, he
found us together, albeit once or twice on
entering the cabin when we were there he
would ask Imogene abruptly, but never with
the sternness his manner gathered when he
addressed others, what our talk was about,
as if he suspected I was inquiring about his
ship and cargo ; though if, indeed, this was
so, I don't doubt the suspicion was put into
his head by Van Vogelaar, who, I am sure,
hated me as much because I was an Englishman
as because our panic-stricken men had
fired upon him.

It takes a man but a very short time to
fall in love, though the relation of the thing,
if the time be very short, is often questioned

as a possibility, sometimes heartily laughed
at as an absurdity, when deliberately set
down In writing. Why this should be I do
not know. I could point to a good many
men married to women with whom they fell
in love at a dance, or by seeing them In the
street, or by catching sight of them In church
and the like. I have known a man to become
passionately enamoured of a girl by
beholding her picture. And what says
Marlowe ?

Who ever loved that loved not at first sight ?"
Depend upon It, when passion Is of slow
growth and cultivated painfully, you may
suspect a deficiency somewhere. Either the
girl Is not delightful of face and shape and
her virtues and good qualities are hard to
come at, or she is a tease and a coquette,
and, in a manner of speaking, puts her foot
down upon a man's heart and prevents the
emotion there from shooting. There will be
something wanting, something wrong, I say.

Association may indeed lengthily induct one
into a habit of affection, but the sort of love
I have in my mind springs like a young god
into a man's intelligence from a maiden's
eyes.

But whether this swift passion is more
lasting than the affection that is formed by
slower mental processes, and which of themis
the safer to trust to, is no riddle for such
as I to bother over. And in sober verity, I
am sorry to have been led into these remarks,
which certainly should be omitted if they
were not necessary as an apology.

For the truth must be told, and it is this:
that the very first morning I met Imogene I
fell in love with her beauty, while the long
days of the storm which threw us greatly
together confirmed the first movement of
my heart by acquainting me with the extraordinary
sweetness, innocence, gentleness and
purity of her nature. These qualities, unlike
the enchanting hue and brightness of her

eyes, the golden falls of her hair, and her
many other fairy graces, were not quickly
discoverable, but they stole out during our
many conversations. Who that has been to
sea knows not how speedily character Is discovered
on shipboard ? And I say that before
that Quale was ended I was so much in love
with this fair and tender girl that I could
have laid down my life to serve her.

This I should not have confessed, nor
indeed made any reference to my love-passage,
If it did not concern the influence exercised
by the Death Ship on the lives and fortunes
of those who have relations with her.

In this time our conversation was about all
sorts of things — her parents, her home, her
childhood, the loss of her father's ship, the
friendless condition she would be In on her
arrival In England should I manage to deliver
her from Vanderdecken. Though when she
came to that, I begged her to dismiss her
fears at once and for ever, by assuring her

that my mother would gladly receive her
and cherish her as her own daughter, having
but me to love, who was always absent. At
which a faint blush sweetened her cheeks as
though she suspected what was in my mind ;
but I was careful to hurry away from the
subject, since I did not wish her then to
suppose I loved her, for fear that, not having
had time, as I believed, to love me, she might
fall into a posture of mind calculated to baffle
my hopes of carrying her away from the
Braave. I told her all about myself, of the
famous Fenton from whom I was descended,
of my voyages, of the Saracen, whose passage
to India I feared would have an ill issue now
that she had met the Dutchman, and I talked
again of Captain Skevington's amazing, and,
as I supposed, accurate theories touching the
living-dead who navigated this ship.

She had much to tell me of Vanderdecken
and his ship ; of unsuspecting vessels they
had fallen in with, which had sold them

tobacco, butter, cheese, and the Hke. Of
others that had backed their topsails to speak,
then taken fright and sailed away in hot
haste.

I asked her if it was true that the captain
hailed passing ships for the purpose of sending
letters home. She answered no ; it was
not true ; that was the general belief as she
had heard from her father ; but, as Wanders
did not know that he was curst — ashe
went on year after year, firmly believing
that next time he should be successful in
rounding the Cape — why should he desire
to send letters home, more particularly ashe
regarded the Braave as one of the swiftest
vessels afloat. She added, '' I have never
seen him write a letter, and I am certain
he has never endeavoured to send one."

'* But if he finds a ship willing to speak, he
will send a boat ?"

'eyes, always; but merely for necessaries
of which he is constantly in want. Now it

is tobacco ; another time It will be spirits.
Some few weeks since we met a ship, from
which he purchased several cases of marmalade
and some hams, for which Van V^ogelaar
paid In coin that scared them, when they put
the age of the money and the appearance of
this ship together ; for they threw the mate
overboard, and Instantly made off."

I suppose Van Vogelaar could not be
drowned ?" said I.

No," said she ; " he, like the rest, have . u^ui
no other business In life than to live. They
had put the hams and marmalade Into the
boat, and when they threw him In the sea,
he swam very quietly to his companions."

** What was the ship ?" I asked.

*'A Spaniard," she replied. 'rafter they
had put the ship before the wind I saw a
number of them on the poop on their knees
crossing themselves."

''I cannot understand" said I, 'why this
ship should be termed a Phantom. What

could be more real than these timbers and
the requirements of the people who navigate
her ?"

** Besides," exclaimed Imogene, ''If she is
a Phantom, how could Vanderdecken write
those letters In her which he Is supposed to
desire to send home? If you have a real
letter, such as a person can put Into his pocket
and deliver, you must have real materials
to produce It, Ink, pens, paper, wafers, and
something hard to sit upon, or kneel upon, or
write upon."

"Certainly!" said I. " Of a Phantom the
whole must be phantasmal. Suppose a ghost
dressed, Its attire must be as unsubstantial as
the essence It covers."

The truth about this ship is not known,"
she continued, " and It never can be known,
because her Influence Is dreaded. Vessels on
finding out her character fly from her, and
those who sell to her unsuspectingly pass
away without giving her further thought."

*' Or," said I, gloomily, "perhaps are nevermore
heard of."

In this way would we talk, and you may
conceive we were at no loss for topics. On
several occasions she showed me some of the
dresses Vanderdecken had furnished her with ;
of which I chiefly remember a chintz gown,
spotted with roses, with sleeves swelling out
like ruffs at the elbows ; a pink dress, with a
girdle to bring the waist close under the
bosom ; and a slate-coloured dress, with a red
shawl for it, to be worn like a sash, and a
kerchief for the throat ; and I also recollect
that she showed me some strange, very
dainty caps, one to sit on the back of the
head, another of black velvet and a feather,
which she told me Vanderdecken had said
was worn on the side of the head. She put
it on to explain its use, and a man's true
darling she looked in it.

Once she came into the cabin dressed in
the pink dress with the high waist ; and very
VOL. n. E

sweet did she appear. But I said to her that
of all the apparel she had shown me nothing
pleased me better than the black velvet
jacket In which I had first seen her, and
thereafter she constantly wore It.

In short, the clothes Vanderdecken had
stocked her cabin with, Including much fine
linen, lace, collars, long gloves, shoes of
several colours, and the like, were such as to
suggest a costly theatrical wardrobe by reason
of the variety of the styles representing
fashions from the middle of the seventeenth
century down to within twenty years of the
time In which happened what I am here relating.
It has been already explained how
these things were gotten. You have only to
consider that this ship sailed from Batavia in
1653, with a large stock of dresses, linen,
jewellery, plate and so forth In her hold,
besides her cargo, which stock Wanders
In whom there must still work the
thrifty instincts of the Hollander, just as he Is

suffered to love his pipe and bowl, and pine
for both when the tobacco and spirits have
run out, had replenished by appropriating
such wares, treasure and apparel as he had a
fancy for out of the ships he encountered
abandoned at sea or cast away upon the
x-\frican coast. You have only to consider
this, I say, and bear in mind the great number
of years he has been afloat, and how many
scores of richly-laden merchantmen have
passed and repassed that part of the ocean to
which the Curse confines him, to find nothing
to marvel at in any catalogue of the contents
of the Braave that could be offered.

Besides having all these strange and often
sumptuous articles of attire to show me and
talk about, Imogene had a great deal to tell
me concerning the weary years she had spent
in the vessel, wondering how her life was to
end, how she was ever to get to England or to
any other civilized country if Vanderdecken
refused to let her leave him, because of his

LIBRARY

University OF ILLINOIS

fatherly affection for her and his conviction
that he was homeward bound, and only temporarily
delayed by the north-west gales
which beat him back. She said that after a
time she began to fear that she would lose
her own language and be able to speak no
tongue but the ancient Dutch in which 
and his men conversed, to preserve
herself from which calamity she regularly
perused the collection of English poetry that
the captain most fortunately had among his.
books. Her grief was that the book, instead
of poems, was not the Holy Scriptures, but
she knew many prayers and hymns her
mother had taught her, and these she never
omitted reciting morning and night.

You would have been touched had you
heard her, marked the sadness that rendered
Madonna-like the character of her fragile,
delicate beauty, observed the girlish innocence
of the expression that shone with
the moisture of unwept tears in the eyes she

fixed on me. and then considered how she
had been bereaved, how frightful for tediousness
and dullness, and for the association of
the mysterious beings into whose society-she
had been cast, must have been the five
years she had spent on the Death Ship. I
remember asking if she knew what religion
Vanderdecken was of ; she answered she did
not know for certain, but that she had heard
him speak of his wife and family as having
worshipped in the Rude Kirk.

Indeed, Mr. Fenton," said she, " I don't
believe he is or was of any religion at all.
Van Vogelaar is a Calvinist ; he told me
so one evening when I was speaking with
surprise of Antony Jans being a Catholic, as
it is almost impossible to reconcile the fatness
of that man with the austerities and
mortifications of his creed."

"There can be no doubt," said I, "that
Vanderdecken was — when human like you
and me, without religion. His shocking defiance,

and the condemnation that followed,
proved that he acted out of sheer sin in his
soul, and not out of a passing passion. And
yet you would have supposed that a Dutchman,
no matter how secretly impious, would
have behaved with more discretion than this
skipper."

'' I dare say he would have been more
discreet," said Imogene, "had he Imogened
what was to follow."

It was in this way, and in such talk, that
we killed those six days of storm ; and now I
come to other matters.

THE GALE BREAKS.

On the sixth day, during dinner, Wanders
said he believed we had seen the
worst of the storm. There was a small lull
in the wind, and a faintness sifting up, so to
speak, from behind the peaks and valleys of
the horizon into the sky all around, like a
very dim dawning of fair weather innumerable
leagues distant yet.

I shall be glad to see the sun again," said
Imogene.

'' Let us get quit of these waters," exclaimed
Vanderdecken, moodily, and often
dropping his knife and fork to take his beard
in both hands and stroke it with a fixed lookin
his eyes, which would have made you

swear he beheld a vision, '' and we shall have
so much sun every day climbing higher and
higher until it hangs right over our mast-heads
like a flaming shield that the coolness
of the Biscay Sea and the entrance of the
English Channel shall be sweet as drink to a
dry man."

"Pray, mynheer," said I, "how far to the
eastwards do you suppose this gale has
driven us ?"

He looked at me with a sudden temper in
his face as if he would crush me for daring to
ask. Nevertheless, he answered, but with a
deep thrill in the rich tremble of his voice,
'about one hundred and fifty leagues, sir;
and what of that ?"

'ray, and what of that?" exclaimed Van
Vogelaar, who had turned a scowling eye on
me on my asking this question.

"Why, nothing, gentlemen," I answered,
warned by the violet eyes that dwelt upon
me to slide out of this matter as quickly as I

could. "The ground to be recovered is not
great, and a pretty little south-east wind
should float us, with square yards, round the
Cape In three or four days."

\"anderdecken made no response ; his eyes
fell away from me to the table, at which he
gazed in the posture of one who dreams
waking. Van Vogelaar, on the other hand,
continued to stare at me for a long minute,
which, as he sate on mv rio^ht hand and consequently
had to turn his head and hold his
face full towards me, proved a very severe
trial to my temper, insomuch that I could have
beat him for his insolence. But a very little
reflection taught me to consider this steadfast,
surly and abusive regard as meaningless
as a dead man's stare would be if moulded
to the expression Van X'ogelaar wore ; so I
waited till he should have made an end of his
scrutiny, and the captain shortly after rising,
I followed him on deck, the weather as yet
being too heavy and wet for Imogene.

It was as \'anderdecken had said. The gale
had broke and we might look for a clear sky
presently, yet the sea still ran fearfully high,
and the wash and weltering of it along the
sea-line that was now indifferently clear, suggested
a vast sierra whose sides beyond were
in sunshine, whilst over our trucks lay the
sombre twilight of the tempest. There was
still a fine rain In the air, though not such as
to cloud the ocean, but I was so fascinated by
the picture of the Flying Dutchman's fight
with the mighty combers which rolled at her
from the north and west that I lingered
gazing till I was pretty near as soaked as
when I had been fished up and brought
aboard.

But a sailor makes no trouble of a wet
jacket so long as he has a dry shirt for his
back, which I had, thanks to Vanderdecken,
who had been so good as to lend me several
shifts of linen.

I do not know that I ever saw or heard of

a ship that threw from her such bodies of
foam as did this vessel. She would rise at
the sea buoyantly enough, yet at every
lean-to to windward for a giddy sliding swoop
into the hollow, she hurled an enormous space
of seething and spitting and flashing froth
many fathoms from her, into which she would
sink as though it were snow and so squatter,
as 'tis termed, and lie there whilst you might
count to ten or fifteen, ere rising out of it to
the irresistible heave of the next leviathan
sea. Often had I watched this picture during
the six days, but the light breaking around
the whole circle of the sea, like radiance dully
streaming through greased paper, the decreasing
force of the wind, that while leaving
the surges still monstrous, suffered the ship
to fall with deader weight to windward, thus
enlarging the snow-like surface she cast from
her whilst rendering it fiercer in its boiling,
made this particular example of the ship's
sea-going qualities a marvel in my sight.

and I stood for a long time looking and
looking.

If ever a man was to guess the deathless
character of this craft it would be at such a
time as this. The giant forces of nature
with which she had warred were languishing.
The beaten storm, not indeed yet breathless,
was slowly silencing the desperate roar of its
invisible artillery ; the seas, like battering-rams,
thundered against her sides, but with a
gradual lessening of their fury, and the victorious
ship, her decks streaming, her bows
and sides hound-like with filial draining,
a fierce music of triumphant shouting aloft,
her reefed courses swollen as are the cheeks
of trumpeters urging to the conflict, rose and
fell, pitched and strained, among those liquid
heights and hollows, every nerve in her
ancient fabric strung taut for a battle that
was to be repeated again and again, whilst
the faintness round the horizon waxed into a
delicate brightness of sunshine streaming off

the edge of the canopy that still hovered on
high, and the wind sank into whistling,
without admixture of thunderous intervals,
and the surge-slopes drooped out of their
savage sharpness.

By seven o'clock that night the gale was
spent, and there was then blowing a quiet
breeze from the west-southwest. The swell
rolled slowly from the quarter from which the
wind had stormed, and caused the Braave to
wallow most nauseously, but she grew a bit
steadier after they had shaken the reefs out
of the courses and made sail on her. I
watched this business with deep interest.
Vanderdecken, standing on the poop, gave
his orders to Van Vogelaar on the quarterdeck.
The sailors went to work with true
Dutch phlegm and deliberateness, taking
plenty of time to knot the reef-points,
then carrying the fore and main-jeers to the
capstan, and walking round without a song,
sullen and silent. There was no liveliness

none of the springing and jumping and
cheerful heartiness you would expect In a
crew who, after battling through six dismal
-days of black winds and lashing seas, were
now looked down upon by a Heaven of stars,
shining gloriously among a few slowly-moving
clouds.

Ay, you saw how dead were the bodies
which the supernatural life in them kept
a-going. They set their topsails, topgallant-sails
and mizzen, which I have elsewhere
described as a lateen-shaped sail secured to
a yard, like to the triangular canvas carried
by xebecs and gallies, then hoisted their jib
or fore-staysail and let fall the clews of the
spritsail, keeping the sprit-topsail handed.
The larboard tacks were still aboard and the
ship heading north, lying up for the coast
that was now about two hundred and fifty to
three hundred leagues from us. She made a
wild picture, not wanting In solemnity either,
yet charged with an element of fear. Twilight

is but short-lived in those seas and it
was dark — though the sky as I have said
was full of radiant galaxies — some while
before they had ended the business of crowding
sail upon the ship. x-\mid the fury and
froth of the gale the phosphoric gleanings of
the timbers had been hidden ; but now that
peace had come and there was no other
commotion than such as the long cradling
swing of the swell produced, those graveyard
lights glistened out afresh and they
made you think of the eyes of countless
worms creeping in and out of the rottenness
of an hundred and fifty years. It was certain
that Vanderdecken and his mates saw these
misty, sickly, death-suggestive glimmerings ;
for the faint lights trembled alone the decks,
twinkled upon the masts, shone with sufficient
power on the sides to make — as I had observed
when the ship first drew near to the
Saracen — a light of their own in the blackwater;
they must have been noticeable things

to the crew, even as to Imogene and me ;
for they saw what we saw — the sun, the stars,
the ocean, the sails, the directions of the compass
— whatever was to be seen.

Why, then, was it that this fluttering, malignant
sheen did not catch their notice ? I
know not. Maybe the senses permitted to
them went so far only as to impel them to
persevere in making the passage of the Cape.
For besides these phosphoric rawlings, the
aged condition of the ship, her antique rig,
and a variety of other features illustrating the
passage of time, would have been visible to
them, had their perception not been limited
by the Curse to the obligations it imposed.

After a little \^anderdecken went below,
and presently returned bringing Imogene
with him. On the poop 'twas all darkness
save for the phosphorescence in the ship and
the sea-hire over the side. The captain and
the lady came close before I distinguished
them.

"Fair weather at last, Mr. Fenton !" she
exclaimed, after peering to make sure of me,
and then stopping so as to oblige Wanders
to stop too, for he had her arm in his,
and I think he meant to walk to and fro the
deck with her.

"Yes," I replied, "Heaven is merciful.
Such another six days I would not pass
through for the wealth in this ship."

Pray speak in Dutch, sir, that I may
follow you," said Vanderdecken, with a
certain stern and dignified courtesy.

If I could converse with ease, mynheer,"
said I, " I should speak in no other language
aboard this vessel. As it is, I fear you do
not catch half my meaning."

Oh, yes ! you are intelligible, sir," he
answered, "though you sometimes use words
which sound like Dutch but signify nothing."

Nothing to you, my friend," thought I ;
*' but I warrant them of good currency in the
Amsterdam of to-day." In short, his language

VOL. IL F

was to mine, or at least to the smattering
I had of the Batavia tongue, what the
speech of a man of the time of Charles II.
would be to one of this century — not very-wide
asunder ; only that one would now
and again introduce an obsolete expression,
whilst the other would occasionally employa
term created years after his colloquies's
day.

But it pleases me, captain, to speak in
my own tongue," said Imogene. '' I should
not like to forget my language."

*' It will be strange if you forget your language
in a few months, my child !" he
answered, with a slight surprise.

A sudden roll of the ship causing the great
mainsail to flap, he started, looked around
him, and cried out with a sudden anger in his
deep voice, to the steersman, " How is the
ship's head ?"

** North-breast," was the answer.

"We want no easting," he cried out again,

with the same passion in his voice, and strode
with vehemence to the binnacle where stood
Antony Arents, who had charge of the deck,
and who had gone to view the compass on
hearing the skipper call.

*' This will not do !" I heard the captain
say, his deep tones rumbling into the ear as
though you passed at a distance a church in
which an organ was played. " By the bones
of my father, I'll not have her break off!
Sweat your braces, man ! Take them to the
capstan! If we spring our masts and yards
for it she'll have to head nothing east of
north !"

There was a fierce impetuosity in his
speech that made the delivery of it sound like
a sustained execration. Arents went forward
and raised some cries. I could see the figure
of Vanderdecken black against the stars, up
and down which he sliced with the heave of
the ship. He was motionless, close to the
binnacle, and I could imagine the stormy rise

and fall of his broad and powerful chest under
his folded arms.

The watch came aft to the braces and
strained at them. 'Twas a shadowy scene.
There were none of those songs and choruses
which seamen used to keep time in their
pulling and hauling and to encourage their
spirits withal. The boatswain, Jans, was on
the forecastle attending the fore : Arents
stood on the quarter-deck. Occasionally one
or the other shouted out an order which the
dim concavities on high flung down again out
of their hollows, as though there were ghosts
aloft mocking at these labours. You saw the
pallid shining writhing about the feet of the
sailors, and the sharper scintillations of the
wood-work wherever it was chafed by a rope.
When they had trimmed, but not yet with
the capstan, Arents called to the captain, who
returned an answer implying that the ship
had come up again, and that the trim as it
was would serve. Thereupon the men stole

out of sight Into the darkness forward, melting
into the blackness as do visions of a
slumberer into the void of deep and dreamless
rest ; Arents returned to the poop and stood
near the captain, who held his place with
the entranced fearlessness I was now accustomed
to see in him. But, no doubt, his
eyes were on the needle, and had I dared
approach, I might have beheld a fire in his
eyes keener than the flame of the mesh with
which the binnacle was illuminated.

"You would know him as one not of this
world," said I to Imogene, "even should he
pass you quickly in a crowd."

There are some lines in the book of
poetry downstairs which fit him to perfection,"
she answered —
' Thou hast a grim appearance, and thy face

Bears a command in it ; though thy tackle's torn,

Thou she's a noble vessel.' "

"x^y," said I, "they are wonderfully pat;
they might have been made for him."
Here are others," she continued —

' He has, I know not what,

Of greatness in his looks and of high fate,
That ahiiost awes me.'

'rand when his moods change these verses

are always present —

Readiest thou not something in my face that speaks
Wonderful change and horror from within me ?' "

She put a tragic note into her voice as she
recited ; the starlight was in her eyes, and
they were fixed on me ; her face whitened
out to the astral gleaming till you saw her
hair throbbing on her forehead to the blowing
of the wind. She continued —

'* I could quote a score of passages marvellously
true of the captain and his fellows,
serving indeed as revelations to me, so keen
are the eyes of poets. And little wonder,"
says she, with a sigh, 'for what else have I
had to read but that book of poetry !"

"Just now" said I, "he asked if you
thought it likely you should lose your language
in a few months. This plainly shows
that he supposes he met with you in his passage

from Batavia — that is his last passage.
Now, since his finding you dates nearly five
years back, and you tell me that he has only
memory for what happened within the past
few months, how does it fall out that he
recollects your story, which he certainly does,
for he asked me if you had related it to me ?"

'' It must be," she answered, '' because he
is constantly alluding to it in speaking of the
reception his wife and daughters will give
me. It is also impressed upon him by my
presence, by my frequent asking him to put
me on board a homeward-going ship, and soit
is kept in his mind as a thing constantly
happening — continually fresh. "

"Suppose I should stay in this ship say for
six months, never speaking of the Saracen
nor recalling the circumstance of my coming
on board, you believe his memory would drop
the fact, and that he would view me as one
who happened to be in the ship, and that's
all, his mind stopping at that .•^"

THE DEATH SHIP.

How he would view you I cannot say ;
but I am certain he would forget how you
came here, unless there was incessant reference
to the Saracen and to her men shooting
at Van Vogelaar. But time would bear no
part in this sort of recollection : he would
still be living in the year of God 1653, and
sailing home from Batavia ; and if he thought
at all he'd imagine it was in that year that
you came on board his ship."

Well, here was a piece of metaphysics a
touch above my intelligence and above this
sweet creature's too, for she could only speak
as she believed, without being able to account
for the miraculous conditions of this ship's
life and of that of her crew. And indeed
I should not have teased her with such
questions but for a great craving to obtain a
just conception of the amazing character who
has been, and must ever remain, the terror of
all mariners ; whilst beyond this again was a
secret dread lest this fair enchanting woman

should have been chosen to play a part in the
marine tragedy ; which I would have a right
to fear if I found Vanderdecken's relations
with her, as regards his memory for instance,
different from what they were in all other
directions. Plainly I mean this : that if she
were being used as a Divine instrument, then
it was certain that I should not be suffered
to deliver her from the Death Ship — an insupportable
reflection at any time, but a
mortal blow now that I had come to love
her.

Meanwhile, the giant figure of the Dutch
captain stood motionless near the binnacle ;
close to him was the second mate, himself
like a statue. The tiller-tackles, grasped by
the helmsman, swayed him with every blow
of the sea upon the rudder, yet even his
movements had a lifelessness in them that
was as apparent as though the man had been
stricken dead at his post, and swung there
against the dancing stars.

A quick jerk of the ship causing Imogene
to lose her balance, she grasped my arm to
steady herself by, and I took care she should
not release me. Indeed, from almost the first
hour of our meeting there had been a yearning
towards me, a wistfulness of a mute sort
underlying her demeanour, and this night I
found assurance of it by her manner, that
was not indeed clinging, having more of
nestling in it, as if I was her refuge, her
one hope. She may have guessed I loved
her. I cannot tell. My eyes may have said
much, though I had not spoken. But there
was that in her, as she stood by my side,
with her hand under my arm, that persuaded
me her heart was coming to mine, and haply
more quickly because of our sole mortality
amid the substantial shadows of the Death
Ship's crew. You felt what that bond meant
when you looked around you and saw the
dimly-looming figure of V^anderdecken beside
the compass, the ghostly darkness of the

second mate's form, the corpse-like swaying
of the helmsman, as of an hanging body
moved by the wind, and thought of the
amazing human mysteries lost in the darkness
forward, or slumbering in the hammocks,
if, indeed, sleep was ever permitted
to visit eyes which death was forbidden to-approach.
'Twas as if Imogene stood on
one side a grave, I on the other, and clasped
hands for the courage we found in warm and
circulating blood, over a pit filled with a
heart-freezing sight.

"We shall escape yet — fear not!" said I,
speaking out of the heat of my own thoughts
as though we were conversing on that subject.

"May our Saviour grant it!" she exclaimed.
"See how black the white water
around the ship makes her in spite of the
strange fires which glow everywhere !"

I felt her shiver as she cried, "The vessel
seems to grow more terrible to my fancy. It
may be because we have talked so much of

her, and your views of Vanderdecken and
the crew have raised terrifying speculations
in me."

*ewe shall escape yet!" I repeated, hotly,
for the very sense of our imprisonment and
the helplessness of our condition for the time
being, that might be long In terminating, was
a thought so maddening that I felt in a
temper to defy, scorn and spit in the face of
the very Devil himself was he to appear.
But I had her right hand pressed to my
heart ; 'twas sure she felt the comfort of it,
and together for some while in silence we
stood viewing the ship, the fabric of whose
hull stood out as though lined with India ink
upon the ashen tremble of froth that seemed
to embrace her length like shadowy-white
arms, as the wind blowing mildly into her
sails forced her to break the water at her
stern as she shaded athwart the swell. She
made a sight to shrink from ! The sailor's
heart within me sank to this feebly-luminous

mystery of aged yet Imperishable hull, holding
within her creatures so unnatural that the
eye of man can view the like of them nowhere
else, and raising her structure of ancient
sail and masts to the stars which glided in
blue and green and white along the yards
with the rolling of her. Little wonder that
she should affright the mariner who meets
her amid the lonely paths of the vast ocean
she haunts.

I clasped my brow with bewilderment in
my brain.

'* Surely," I cried to my companion, "I
am dreaming. It cannot be that I at this
moment am standing on the deck of the
Death Ship !"

She sought to soothe me, but she was
startled by my behaviour, and that perception
enabled me to rally. If she as a weak and
lonely maiden could bravely support five years
of life amid this crew, what craven was I to
have my brain confused by only seven days'

association, spent mainly In her company ?
Heaven forgive me. But methinks I realised
our condition — all that It might hereafter
signify — with a keenness of Insight, present
and prophetic, which would be Impossible In
her whose knowledge of the sea was but a
child's when she fell Into Vanderdecken's
hands.

We must have patience, courage and
hope, ]mr. Fenton," she said, softly. " Look
at that starry jewel yonder," and she turned
up her face to the cross that hung above
the mizzen topmast - head, gleaming very
gloriously In a lake of deep Indigo betwixt two
clouds. "It shines for me! and often have
I looked up at It with full eyes and a prayer
in my heart. It shines for you, too! It Is
the emblem of our redemption, and we must
drink in faith that God will succour us from
it."

She continued to gaze at it, and there was
sheen enough to enable me to see a tender

smile upon her upturned face. How sweet
did she then appear, fairer than the "evening
air clad in the beauty of a thousand stars," as
the poet wrote. I looked up to that sparkling
Cross and thought how strange it was
that the Sentence pronounced upon this ship
should doom her to sail eternally over waters
above which there nightly rises the lustrous
symbol of Compassion and Mercy.

Take my arm, my child ; 'tis chilly work
standing," said the deep voice of the captain.

Again had he come upon us unawares, but
this time he found us silent, together gazing
at the Cross of stars. She withdrew her
hand quickly from my arm and took his,
showing wisdom in her promptness, as I was
quick to see. Then, being alone, I went to
the quarter-deck and fell to walking briskly.
For Vanderdecken was right, the wind came
bleak.

THE DEATH SHIP's FORECASTLE.

Next morning was clear and sunny, I was
up betimes, being always glad to get away
from my cabin, in the which I needed all my
long training at sea to qualify me to sleep,
not only because of the rats and the noises in
the hold, and those mystic fires in the timbers
that never failed to send a shudder through
me if I opened my eyes upon them in the
darkness, but because of my bed, which was
miserably hard and wretched in all ways, and
in which I would lie down dressed, saving
my boots and jacket, never knowing when I ■
might not be obliged to spring on deck in a
hurry, though I took care to refresh myself ■
o' morn by going into the head, pulling off

my shirt and sousing myself with a bucketful!
of salt water — 'twas an old canvas bucket, I
remember — no man of the crew speaking to
or noticing me.

This morning being very fine, the first
bright day that had broken since I had been
in the ship, I thought, since it was early, an
hour to breakfast, Vanderdecken in his cabin
and Arents alone on the poop-deck with the
man who steered, that I would look a little
closely into the vessel, and ascertain if possible
where and how the men slept, where
they dressed their food and the like. But
first I snatched a glance around to see if any
sail was in sight. No ! 'Twas all dark-blue
water meeting the clear sky in an unbroken
girdle, that by holding its sapphire hue against
the light azure of the heavens there, stood
out with surprising sharpness. The swell
left by the gale was not gone, but it came
with a steady rhythmic flowing of folds from
the north-west that seemed to soothe rather
VOL. n. G

than to vex the ancient ship, and the leavings
made the eastern seaboard a rich and dazzling
spectacle, by catching the brilliant white
sunshine on the polish of their rounded backs,
and so carrying their burden of blinding
radiance to the verge of the visible deep.

The ship was under all the canvas she had.
That studding-sails have been for ages in use
we know on the authority of Sir Walter
Raleigh, in his writings on the improvements
in ships since Henry the Eighth's days ; yet
I can answer that this Death Ship had no
irons on her yards, nor could I anywhere see
any spars that answered to the booms used
for the spreading of those sails. However,
even if she had been furnished with such
canvas, this morning it would have been
no use to her ; for the breeze still hung,
westerly and she was going close-hauled,
steering something to the west of north and
moving through the water at about three
knots.

I Spied the corpulent figure of Jans, the
boatswain, forward of the foremast. He was
standing with his arms folded, staring ahead.
His posture somehow suggested a vacancy of
mind, and you thought of him as looking into
God knows what distance, with the unmeaningness
you observe in the fixed gaze of a
babe sucking.

I could not say whether the decks had
been washed down ; they seemed damp, as
if newly swabbed. One whom I supposed
to be the ship's carpenter was sawing wood
near the house in which were the live stock.
Two others, hard by him, sat upon a sail,
stitching at it. There was a seaman in the
foretop, but what doing I could not see ;
little more than his head showed above the
barricade. I walked forward to where the
boatswain stood, and, on observing that he
took no notice of me, I touched him lightly
on the shoulder.

He turned his round face, ghastly as

death yet as fleshy and plump as life, and
gazed at me. I felt nervous — It was dreadful
to accost these conformations, which were
neither men nor devils — but I was resolved
to go through with the business I had on
hand, impelled by the thought that if I was
suffered to come off with my life from this
experience there would be that to relate to
the world beyond anything which seamen
have told of the ocean life.

I said to him, " Good morning, Herr Jans.
Here, to be sure, is a fine sky with noble
promise."

"True, sir," he answered, seeming to step
out of the mystery of his stillness and
vacancy without effort. "She looks fairly
up : but so tedious a nor-wester should be
followed by a southerly gale !"

"Heaven grant it!" cried I, gathering
courage from his civility. "You will be Mad
to see old Amsterdam again, no doubt !"

"Ay," said he, "I warrant you; and my

wife, Amans, too, and my daughter, Tobina.
Ha! ha!"

His laugh was Hke that of the parrot,
mirthless ; and not a wrinkle stirred upon his
countenance to give reality to his shocking
merriment.

To come at what I wanted — for I did not
wish Vanderdecken to arrive and see me
forward — I said "Yes, meetings are made
sweeter by a little delay. Pardon me, Heer :
I am an Englishman not well acquainted
with the shipboard usages of the Dutch. In
the ship of which I was second mate, we had
what is called a topgallant forecastle in which
the crew slept "

He interrupted with a shake of the head.
*' I do not understand," said he.

This was not strange, for as I did not know
the Dutch words, I called it topgallant forecastle
in English.

"They slept under a deck resembling the
poop," said I.

Ha!" he exclaimed.

Where do your crew sleep ?"

'down there," he responded, pointing to
a hatch answering to the forecastle of these
times.

'' Is it a comfortable cabin ?" said I.

He made a face and spat behind his hand,
which caused me to see that sailors in all
times have been alike in the capacity of
grumbling, and that even in this man, who
by virtue of the age he had attained had long
ceased to be human and was kept alive only
by the Curse it was his lot to share with the
skipper, the instincts of the seaman still lived,
a few sparks among blackened embers.

'judge for yourself if you will," said he.
"My last ship was the Maagt van Eukhuysen,
and though her forecastle raised a mutiny
among us for its badness, I tell you, mynheer,
'twas as punch is to stale cold water
compared to this."

He motioned me to descend, but I asked

him to go first, for how was I to guess what
would be my reception if the men saw me
entering their abode unaccompanied? "Very
good," said he, and catching hold of the
coaming he dropped his great figure through
the hatch, and I followed.

We descended by a ladder in perfect correspondence
with the rest of the fittings of
this ship — the hand-rails carved, and the
steps a sort of grating — different, indeed,
from the pieces of coarse, rough wood nailed
to the bulkhead, which in these days form
the road down through the forecastle. The
light of the heavens fell fair through the
hatch, but seemed powerless to penetrate the
gloom that lay around. I was blinded at
first, and stood a moment under the hatch
idly blinking and beholding nothing. Then
stepping out of the sphere of the daylight,
there stole upon my sight the details of the
place one by one, helped by the wan, sputtering
and smoking flame of a lamp shaped

like a coffee-pot, the waste or mesh coming
out of the spout fed by what the nose readily-determined
to be slush.

Jans stood beside me. "Can you see,
mynheer ?" said he.

'ray, 'tis growing upon me by degrees,"
I replied.

Master," exclaimed a hollow voice, proceeding
from the darkest part of this forecastle,
" if you could help me fill the bowl of
a tobacco-pipe I should be grateful."

Very luckily I had the remains of what
sailors term a prick of tobacco in my pocket,
which Prins when he dried my jacket had
very honestly suffered to remain there. The
piece had been so hard pressed in the making,
and rendered so water-proof by the rum in it,
that my falling overboard had left it perfectly
sweet and fit for smoking. By a stingy and
cautious use of the knife there was enough of
it to give all hands a smoke. I pulled it out
and handed it to Jans to deliver to the man

who had addressed me. Jans smelt it and
said 'eyes, it was tobacco, but how was it to
be smoked ?"

I pulled out my knife, and stepping into
the light under the hatch, put the tobacco
upon one of the ladder-steps and fell to slicing
or rather shaving it, and when I had cut
enough to fill a pipe bowl I rolled up the
shreds in my hands, and taking a sooty clay
pipe from Jans, charged it, and bade him
light it at the lamp. He did so, speedily returning,
smoking heartily, puffing out great
clouds, and crying out, "Oh, but 'tis good!
'tis good !"

It is tiring work cutting up this kind of
tobacco, and Jans now understanding how it
was done, took the knife and the tobacco and
shred about an inch of it, there being in all
between three and four inches. Whilst this
was doing I had leisure to gaze about me,

No sooner had Jans lighted his pipe, so
that all could see he was smoking, than from

several parts of that gloomy interior there
sliced a number of figures who quickly
clustered around the ladder, over one of
whose steps or treads the boatswain leaned,
pipe in mouth, whilst he sliced and shaved.
The daylight fell upon some of them, others
where faintly to be seen in the dim illumination
which the lustre, passing through the
hatch, feebly spread. From rows of old
hammocks, that died out in the gloom, these
men had dropped, and mariners half-perished
with hunger could not have exhibited more
delirious eagerness for food than did these
unhappy creatures for a pipeful of the tobacco
Jans was at work upon. A smaller and
wilder, nay, a more affrighted picture I defy
the imagination to body forth. It was not
only that many of these unhappy people were
half-naked — most of them still swinging in
their hammocks, when I descended — it was
their corpse-like appearance, as though a
grave-yard had disgorged its dead, who had

come together in a group, quickened and
urged by some hunger, lust or need common
to the whole, and expressing in many
varieties of countenance the same desire.
All about Jans they crowded, fifteen or
twenty men ; some thin, with their ribs showing,
others with sturdy legs of the Dutch kind,
some nearly bald, some so hairy that their
locks and beards flowed down their backs
and chests, some dark with black eyes, others
round-faced and blue-eyed ; but every man
of them looking as if he was newly risen,
Lazarus-like, from the tomb, as though he
had burst the bondage of the coffin, and
come into this forecastle dead yet living, his
body formed of the earth of the grave, and
his soul of the Curse that kept him alive.
I had particularly hoped to see some of
them sleeping, wondering what appearance
they presented in slumber ; also whether such
as they ever dreamed, and what sort of expressions
their faces wore. But the place

was too dark to have yielded this sight even
had I been at Liberty to peer into their hammocks.
When my eyes grew used to the
twilight of the slush-lamp and I could see
plain, I found there was not much to whet
curiosity. Here and there stood a box or
sea-chest. Against the aged sides, hanging
by nails or hooks, were coats, trowsers, oilskins,
and the like, most of them differing in
fashion, swaying with the heaving of the
ship. Some odds and ends of shoes and
boots, a canvas bucket or two, a tall basket,
in which were stowed the dishes and mugs
the men eat and drank with, completed, with
the hammocks overhead, all the furniture
that I could distinguish of this melancholy,
rat-gnawed, yea, and noisome forecastle.

By this time Jans was wearied of slicing
the tobacco, and the fellow called Mender
Kryns was at work upon what remained of
it. All who had pipes filled them, and I was
surprised to find how well off they were in

this respect, though my wonder ceased when
I afterwards heard that amongst other articles
of freight \'anderdecken had met with In a
direct were cases of long clay pipes. It
was both moving and diverting to watch these
half-clad creatures smoking, their manner of
holding the smoke In their mouths for the
better tasting of It, the solemn joy with which
they expelled the clouds ; some In their hammocks
with their naked legs over the edge ;
others on the chests, manifestly Insensible to
the chilly wind that blew down through the
hatch. No man spoke. If aught of mind
there was among them, It seemed to be
devoted to keeping their pipe-bowls burning.
Jans stood leaning against the foremast, puffing
at his pipe, his eyes directed Into the
gloom In the bows. That he had forgotten
the errand that brought him below, that I had
no more existence for him than would have
been the case had I never fallen from the rail
of the Saracen, was clearly to be gathered

from his strange rapt posture and air. I
touched him again on the shoulder, and he
turned his eyes upon me, but without starting.
'Twas the easiest, nimblest way of
slipping out of a condition of trance into
intelligence and life that can be conceived.

I wished to see all I dared ask to look
at, and said, "Where do you cook your
food ?"

I will show you," he answered, and
walked to some distance abaft the fore-scuttle.


I followed him painfully, for I could scarce
see ; indeed, here would have been total
blackness to one fresh from the sunlight.
There was a bulkhead with an opening on
the larboard hand ; we passed through it,
and I found myself on a deck pretty well
filled up at the after-end with coils of cable,
casks, and so forth ; a windward port was
open, and through it came light enough to
see by. In the middle of this deck was a

sort of caboose, situated clear of the ropes
and casks. 'Twas, in short, a structure of
stout scantling, open on either side, and fitted
with brick-work contrived for a furnace and
coppers for boiling. A man — the cook, or
the cook's mate — his feet naked, his shanks
clothed in breeches of a faded blue stuff, and
his trunk in a woollen shirt — was at work
boiling a kind of soup for the crew's breakfast.
Another man stood at a dresser, rolling
paste. This fellow was a very short, corpulent
person, with a neck so fat that a
pillow of flesh lay under the back of his
head. Never in my time had I viewed a
completer figure of a Dutchman than this
cook. You would have supposed that into
this homely picture of boiling and pie-making
there would have entered such an element of
life and reality as was nowhere else to be
found in that accurst ship. Yet so little was
this so, that I do not know that in all the
time I had been in the Braave I had beheld

a more ghastly picture. It was the two men
who made it so ; the unreality of their greatness,
to comprehend which, if this phrase
should sound foolishly, think upon the vision
of an insane man, or upon some wondrous
picture painted upon the eyes of the dying or
opening upon the gaze of some enthusiast.

The flames of the furnace shot a crimson
glare upon the first of the two men I have
described ; he never turned his head to look
at me, but went on stirring what was in the
copper. The place had much of the furniture
of one of our present cabooses or galleys.
There was a kind of dresser and there were
racks for holding dishes, an old brass timepiece
that was as great a curiosity in its way
as the clock in the cabin, a chair of the last
century, a couple of wooden bellows, and such
matters.

I was moving, when the little, fat cook
suddenly fell sniffing, and turning to Jans,
said, " Is there tobacco at last ?"

*' No," answered Jans; "this Heer had a
piece which he has distributed. 'Tis all
gone. But there is a smoke left in this
pipe ; take it."

He dried the sooty stem upon his sleeve,
and handed it to the cook, who instantly
began to puff, uttering one or two exclamations
of pleasure, but with an unmoved
countenance.

'ris there no tobacco on board?" said I,
following Jans into the forecastle.

"The skipper has a small quantity, but
there is none for the crew," he answered.
Had your ship supplied us with a little stock
'twould have been a godsend ; welcomer, sir,
than the powder and shot you wantonly bestowed
upon our boat."

We were now in the forecastle, and this
reference to the action of the terrified crew
of the Saracen, in the hearing of the seamen
who overhung their hammocks, or squatted
on their chests, smoking, alarmed me ; so

VOL. IL H

with a quickly uttered "Good-morning" addressed
to them all, I sprang up the ladder
and gained the deck.

WE SIGHT A SHIP.

It was like coming out of a sepulchre to step
from that forecastle on deck where the
glorious sun was and the swaying shadows,
and where the blue wind gushed in a soft
breathing over the bulwark-rails, with weight
enough in it to hold the canvas starless, and
to raise a gentle hissing alongside like the
seething of champagne. I spied Wanders
on the poop and near him Imogene,
so I hastened aft to greet the girl and salute
the great bearded figure that nobly towered
beside her. She looked fragrant and sweet
as a white rose in the dewy morn, wore a
straw hat turned up on one side and looped
to stay there with a parti-coloured rosette,
and though this riband was faded with age

and the straw yellow and dull through keeping,
the gear did suit her beauty most
divinely, and I could have knelt and kissed
her hand, so complete a Princess did she
appear In the royal perfections of her countenance
and shape.

To turn from the sparkle of her violet eye,
the rosiness of her lip, the life that teemed in
the expression of her face, like a blushing
light shining through fragile porcelain, to
turn from her to the great silent figure near
her, with piercing gaze directed over the taffy
his beard trembling to the down-rush of
air from the mizzen, was to obtain a proper
contrast to enable you to realise in the aspect
of that amazing person the terrible conditions
of his existence and the enormous significance
of his sentence.

With a smile of pleasure at the sight of me,
Imogene bade me good-morning, saying, " I
am before you for the first time since you
have been in the ship."

I was out of my cabin half-an-hour ago,
perhaps longer," said I. "What, think you,
I have been doing ? Exploring the sailors*
quarters and inspecting the kitchen." And
I tossed up my hands and turned up my
eyes that she might guess what I thought
of those places. Then meeting Wanders
gaze, which he had brought to bear
upon me with a frowning roll of the eyes, I
took off my hat, giving him a bow. He
greeted me in his imperious stormy way, and
asked me what I thought of his ship.

I replied, " She is a very fine vessel, sir."

"Did they lift the hatches to show the
cargo to you .^" he exclaimed.

I answered smartly, " No," perceiving
that he was aware I had been below in the
fore-part.

How does my forecastle show to your
English prejudice ?" he said.

"Oh, mynheer!" said I, smiling, with a
look at Imogene, whose eyes were fixed in

the quarter over the stern into which \'an-
derdecken had been staring, "so far from
Englishmen being prejudiced, at all events,
in naval matters, we are continually taking
ideas from other nations, particularly from
the French, whose ships of war we imitate
and admire. Perhaps," said I, *that is
one of the reasons why we are incessantly
capturing the vessels of that nation."

But the conceit was lost, because this man
had flourished before we had become the
terror of the French that our admirals have
since made the English flag to be.

Imogene cried out in Dutch, *' Do you
know, mr. Fenton, that there is a sail insight
?"

My heart gave a bound, and following the
indication of her ivory-white forefinger, which
pointed directly astern, I saw the tiny gleam
of what was unquestionably a ship's canvas,
resembling the curved tip of a gull's wing.

Av. to be sure, yonder's a sail!" I exclaimed,

after keeping my eyes fixed upon ita
while to make sure, and I added in Dutch,
Which way, madam, does the captain say
she is steering ?"

Directly after us," she replied.

Judge for yourself, sir," said Wanders
motioning with his hand toward a
telescope that stood against the deck-house.

It was the ancient, heavy tube I had observed
in his cabin. I picked it up, rested it
upon the rail — it was too weighty for the
support of my left hand — and worked away
with it at the sail astern. It was a feeble old
glass, magnifying, I should suppose, to the
proportion of a crown to a groat. In fact I
could see as well with the naked eye. It was
Yanderdecken's telescope, however, and a
curiosity, and still feigning to view the sail, I
secretly ran my eye over the tubes, noticing,
in very faint letters, the words, '' Cornelius
Van der Decked, Amsterdam, 1650," graved
in flowing characters upon the large tube.

She Is heading after us, you think, mynheer
?" said Vanderdecken as I rose.

I could not say, sir. Has she grown
since you first observed her.

-Yes."

He took the glass and levelled It very
easily, and I met Imogene's gaze as she
glanced from him to me, as though she was
sure I could not but admire the massive,
manly figure of that man, drawn to his full
height, and In such a posture as one would
love to see him painted In.

"She Is certainly steering our course," said
he, speaking with his eye at the tube, " I
hope she may not prove an English man-of-war.
Who can tell ? If a merchantman, be
her nationality what it may, we'll speak her
for tobacco, for that's a commodity we must
have."

I looked earnestly and with a face flushed
with hope at Imogene ; but she glanced
away from me to the sail, signalling to me by

this action In a manner unmistakable, to be
wary.

Vanderdecken put down the glass, cast a
look aloft at the set of his canvas and the
trim of his yards, and then called to Arents
to heave the log. Some seamen came aft, in
response to the second mate's call, and,
bringing out a reel and sand-glass from the
deck-house, measured the speed of the ship
through the water, precisely as we at this day
do, so ancient Is this simple device of telling
a ship's speed of passage through the water
by paying out a line marked with knots to
the running of sand ! I heard Arents say that
the vessel was going three knots and a half.

"At that rate," said I to Imogene, whilst
Vanderdecken remained aft, watching in a
soulless manner the automaton-like motions
of the men engaged In hauling the line in and
reeling it up, "that vessel yonder, if she be
actually heading our way, will soon overhaul
us."

'* Mr. Fenton," said she, with subdued
energy in her soft voice, " I earnestly pray
you, neither by word, look or sign to give
Captain V'anderdecken the least reason to
suspect that you mean to escape from his
ship and rescue me whenever the chance shall
offer. I will tell you why I say this : just now
he spoke of you to me, and said if an opportunity
offered he should put you on board
any vessel that would receive you, no matter
where she was bound to, and then he asked
what you and I chiefly talked about. There
was more sternness in his manner than ever
I recollect in him when addressing me."

''If I thought him capable of human
emotions," said I, " I should reckon him
jealous."

'' But he Lias human emotions — he loves
his wife and children," she replied.

'ray, but who is to know that that love is
not left to linger in him as a part of his curse?"
said I. " Bv which I mean, if he was not

suffered to remember his wife and children
and love them, he might not show himself
very eager to get round the Cape. Possibly
he wants to get rid of me, not because he is
jealous, not because he dislikes me as a man,
but because that malignant baboon. Van
\'ogelaar, may have been speaking against
me, putting fears into his head touching
his treasure, and working upon his duty asa
Hollander — a compatriot of De Ruyter,
God help him — to hate me as an Englishman."


But he loves me too, ]mr. Fenton," said
she.

"As a father mio-ht," said I, not likings this,
yet amused by her sweet tenaciousness.

"Yes, as a father; but it shows he has
capacity for other emotions outside those
which you deem necessary for the duration of
the Sentence."

I ought to believe so if he hates me,"
said I, looking his way and observing that he

had turned his back upon us and was watching
the sail astern. '' But be all this as it
will, you shall find me as careful as you can
desire."

"If," said she, plaintively, "he should
become even faintly suspicious of your intentions,
he might set you ashore, should we not
meet with a ship to receive you, and then
what would become of you and what would
become of me, Mr. Fenton .^"

Have no fear," said I ; "he shall discover
nothing in me to make him suspicious. As
to his setting me ashore, that he could do,
and whether I should be able to outwit him
in such a manoeuvre, I cannot tell ; but in no
other way could he get rid of me, unless by
throwing me overboard."

He would not do that," she exclaimed,
shaking her head ; " nor do I think he would
force you from this ship if he could find no
ground for distrust. But something affecting
you has worried his mind, I am certain, or he

would not have declared his intention to send
you to another vessel. He believes he is
going straight home. Why, then, should he
not be willing to carry you ? Maybe he
heard from Arents that you were below
exploring the ship. Oh, Mr. Fenton, be
cautious ! If not for your own sake, then for
mine !"

She involuntarily brought her little hands
together into a posture of prayer with the
earnestness of her entreaty, and her warmth
flowed rosily to her cheeks, so that, though
she spoke low, her manner was impassioned,
and I saw how her dear heart was set upon
my delivering her, and how great was her
terror least my thoughtlessness should end in
procuring our separation. However, I had
no time to then reassure her, though I
resolved henceforth to walk with extraordinary
circumspection, seeing that the people
I had fallen amongst were utterly unintelligible
to me, being so composite in their

dead-likeness that It was Impossible to come
at their motives and feelings, If they possessed
any resembling ours. I say I had
not time to reassure her, for Prins arrived
to report breakfast, which brought Wanders
to us.

Little was said at table, but that little was
quite enough to make me understand the
wisdom of Imogene's fears, and to perceive
that If I did not check my curiosity to Inspect
the ship so as to be able to deliver a true
account of this strange and fearful fabric,
I stood to lose Imogene the chance of escape
which my presence In the vessel provided
her with. No matter which of the two
mates had the watch on deck. Van Vogelaar
always sat down to meals first, Arents following.
He was beside me this morning as
usual, coming fresh from his cabin ; and
when we were seated, Vanderdecken told
him there was a ship astern.

How heading, skipper ?''

*ras we go, without doubt. She hath
grown swiftly since first sighted, yet hangs
steady In the same quarter."

Let her hoist any colours but those of
this gentleman's country!" said Van \^ogelaar,
with an ugly sneer.

*' Should that happen, captain, will you
fight her ?" I asked, quietly.

''If she be a ship of war — no ; for what
are our defences against the culverin and
deml-culverlns of your ships, and how shall
we match perhaps four hundred sailors with
our slender company ?" replied Yanderdecken,
with an evil glitter In his eyes, and grasping
his beard as his custom was when wrathful
thoughts surged In him.

'' She may prove a harmless merchantman
perhaps a sturdy Hollander — that will give
you plenty of tobacco for a little of your
silver," said Imogene, striking in with her
sweet smile, and melodious voice, like a sunbeam
upon turbulent waters.

"If you are In doubt why not shift your
helm, gentlemen ?" said I.

''Ah, skipper!" cried Van Vogelaar, sardonically,
'ewe have an adviser here. It is
fit that a Dutch ship should be served by an
English pilot !"

I held my peace. At this moment the
clock struck, and the parrot, as though some
fiend was inside her green bosom prompting
her to breed trouble, cried out "Xa^nZ'i?nnl
IDcrDoniD !" with fierce energy, severely clawing
her wires, and exhibiting more agitation
than seems possible in a fowl of naturally dull
and leaden motions.

"I believe she speaks the truth," exclaimed
Van Vogelaar, turning his face towards the
cage. " The parrot hath been known to
possess a witch-like capacity of forecasting
and divining."

"Oh, but you know, Heer, that she
had that sentence by heart when the
captain bought her," said Imogene, with a

mixed air of distress and petulance in her
face.

"I know, madam," he replied, "that yonder
bird never spoke those words with such
energy as she now puts into them before
this gentleman arrived."

Vanderdecken looked at him and then at
me, but did not speak.

'' What do you suspect from the increased
energy of the bird's language?" said I, fixing
my eyes upon the mate.

He would not meet my gaze, but answered
with his eyes upon his plate, " What is your
motive in examining this ship, sir ?"

'the harmless curiosity of a sailor," I
replied.

He was about to speak, but I lifted my
hand, meaning to entreat silence whilst I
continued, but he, mistaking the gesture fora
threat, shrank very abjectly from his
seat, proving himself a timorous, cowardly
fellow, and the more to be feared, perhaps,

VOL. II. I

for being so. " Captain Vanderdecken," said
I, keeping my hand lifted, that he and his
mate might understand I Intended no menace,
'' I know not what base and degrading
charges Herr Van Vogelaar would Insinuate.
I am an honest man and mean well, and, sir,
add to that the gratitude of one whose life
you have preserved. You where pleased, on
one occasion, to speak kindly of my countrymen,
and regret that feud should ever exist
between two nations whose genius seems to
have a common root. I trust that your
sympathy with Britain will cause you to turn
a deaf ear to the unwarrantable hints against
my honour as an English seaman, dropped
by your first mate."

To this speech Vanderdecken made no reply
; indeed, I would not like to swear that
he had heeded so much as a syllable of it.
Van Vogelaar resumed the posture on his
seat from which he had started on my raising
my hand and went on with his meal. Shortly

after this Imogene left the table and entered
her cabin, on which, weary of the sullen and
malignant company of the mate, and the
ghostly silence and fiery eyes of Captain
Vanderdecken, I rose, bowed to the skipper,
and went on deck.

I walked right aft, past the helmsman, and
stood gazing with a most passionate yearning
and wistfulness at the sail astern. The
stranger had not greatly grown during the
time we had passed below, but her enlargement
was marked enough to make me guess
that she was overhauling us hand over fist, as
sailors say, and I reckoned that if the wind
held she would be within gunshot by three
or four of the clock this afternoon. I went
for Vanderdecken's glass and examined her
again ; the lenses imparted an atmospheric
sharpness and pellucidity of outline which
showed plainly enough the royal and top-gallant-sails
of apparently a large ship slightly
leaning from the wind. I could not persuade

myself that she was "reaching," for though
our yards were as sharply braced as they
would lie, the stranger, if she were close
hauled, could have luffed up three or four
more points, but as she held her place It was
certain she was making a free wind and
coming along with her yards braced-In somewhat.
Therefore she was not bound to the
westwards, and If for the Indian Ocean, what
need had she to be heading due north ?

I put down the glass, but the yearning
that rose within me at the slept of the vessel
ceased when I thought of Imogene. Suppose
that ship should prove the instrument of
separating me from her ! I had talked big
for the sake of comforting her, of fearing
nothing from Vanderdecken save being set
ashore or tossed overboard, for I counted
upon any and all ships we met refusing to
receive me If they found out that this ancient
fabric was the Flying Dutchman. But suppose
\'anderdecken should heave me overboard

on nearing a vessel, leaving it to her
people to succour me if they chose ?

These were the fancies which subdued in
me the eager wistfulness raised by yonder
gleaming wing of canvas, whitening like a
mounting star upon the blue edge of the
ocean in the south.

Lost in thought. I continued eazlnor until
presently I grew sensible of the presence of
someone standing close beside me. It was
Imogene. On the weather quarter was Van
Vogelaar surveying the sail with folded arms
and stooped head. His face wore a malignant
expression, and in his fearlessness he
resembled an effigy, wrought with exquisite
skill to a marvellous imitation of apparel
and shape.

"Where is the captain ?" I asked.

He is smoking in the cabin," Imogene
answered.

Yonder rascal is evidently my enemy,"

said I.

'all will be well If you show no curiosity,"
she replied, softly. "Do you not remember
that I cautioned you at the very beginning ?
My belief Is that the mate Is mad you should
know of the treasure In this ship, and will
be eager to get rid of you lest you should
contrive to possess It."

'but how?"

By acquainting the master of the ship
you are transferred to with the wealth in this
vessel. Add to this fear — for he has a share
In all they recover from wrecks, and In a
portion of the cargo — his hatred of you for
your men firing at him."

"I begin to see," said I, "that there are
several strokes of human nature still to be
witnessed among these unhappy wretches,
spite of their monstrous age, the frightfulness
of the Curse they are under, and their
being men who are alive in death — corpses
reflecting vitality just as the dead moon
shines. But needs must where the Devil

drives ; speculating will not serve ; we must
wait."

I watched her whilst she looked at the sail
in our wake ; emotion darkened and lightened
In the violet of her eyes as the blue folds of
Heaven seem to deepen and brighten with
the breathing of the wind ; through her delicate
lips her rose-sweet breath came and went
swiftly. She started, looked at \^an Vogel
aloft at the canvas, round the deck, with
a sharp tremble running through her light
form, and cried out with an hysteric swiftness,
and In a voice full of tears, "You will
not leave me to this wretched fate, 'Sir.
Fenton I You will not leave me in this
dreadful ship !"

I grasped her hand. " I swear before the
Majesty of that offended God whose eye is
on this ship as we thus stand, that If I am
forced to leave you It will be at the cost of
mv life !"

WE WATCH THE SHIP APPROACH US.

We Stood in silence for some moments, hand
in hand; then finding Van Vogelaar furtively
watching us, I quitted her side ; at the same
moment Vanderdecken came on deck.

I went to the foremost end of the poop
and there stayed, leaning against the bulwark,
my mind very full of thought. Though
I had been in this vessel a week, yet now, as
on many occasions, I found myself conceiving
it to be a thing incredible that this craft
should be the famous Death Ship of tradition,
the talk and terror of the mariner's forecastle ;
and such a feeling of mystification thickened
my brains that a sudden horror stung me
from head to foot with the sensation the

nervous are possessed with, when, in a
sudden panic, they fear they are going out
of their minds. But, by keeping my eyes
fixed on Imogene, I succeeded ere long in
mastering this terrible emotion, even to the
extent of taking a cheerful view of my
situation ; first, by considering that, for all
I knew, I had been led by the Divine hand
to this ship for the purpose of rescuing the
lovely girl from a fate more dismal and
shocking than tongue could utter or imagination
invent ; and next, by reflecting that
if God spared my life so that I could
relate what I had seen, I should be famous
among sailors as the only seaman that had
ever been on board the Phantom Ship, as
she is foolishly styled, eaten with her commander,
mixed with her crew, beheld the
discipline of her, and looked narrowly into
all circumstances of her inner or hidden life.
It seemed to me incredible that any vessel
could encounter her and not guess what she

was, though, of course, I believed what
Imogene had said, that now and again an
unsuspicious ship would traffic with Wanders
In such commodities as the one
wanted or the other had. If her character
was expressed at night by the fiery rawlings
like red-hot wire upon her. In the daytime
she discovered her nature by signs not Indeed
so wild and terrifying, but to the full as
significant In a sailor's eyes. Supposing her
to have been built at Horn, in 1648 — that
date, I believe, would represent her birth —
there would be nothing In the mere antiquity
of her hull, or even In the shape of It, to
convict her as \^anderdecken's ship ; because
the difference between the bodies and forms
of ships of the time in which she was built
and those of many vessels yet afloat and
actively employed, would not be so great as
to let the mariner know what she was.
For instance, there was a vessel trading in
my time between Stratford and White-haven

that was an hundred and thirty years
old. She was called the Three Sisters, and
the master was one Donna ; she was also
known by the name of the Port-a-Ferry
Frigate. Her burthen was thirty-six tons,
and 'twas positively known she was employed
at the siege of Londonderry, in 1689. Nowhere
was a craft once beheld by me, who am
writing this, that was nearly as ancient as the
Flying Dutchman. She was often to be met
coasting, and. in consequence of her having
been the first vessel that ever entered the
Old Dock at Liverpool, was ever after made
free of all port charges. Yet, no sailor
shrank affrighted from her, no grave-yard
fires lived in her timbers ; when encountered
at sea she was regarded as a venerable piece
of marine architecture, and that was all. But
why ? Because her rig had been changed.
She had been a ship ; when I knew her she
was a brigantine. Aloft she had been made
to keep pace with all improvements. Then

"her hull was carefully preserved with paint,
her vovaofes were short, and she was constantly
being renewed and in divers ways
made good.

But this Death Ship was now as she had
been in 1653 when she set sail from Batavia
for her homeward passage. Aloft she was
untouched — that is, in respect of her original
aspect, if I save the varying thickness of her
standing gear, which would not be observable
at a short distance. For a century and a
half, when I met her, had she been washing
about in this ocean off the Cape of Storms,
and the exposure had rotted her through and
kindled the glow of deadwood in every pore.
It might be that the Curse which held her
crew living was not yet quick in her. By
which I mean that she had not yet come to
that condition of decay which would correspond
in a ship to the death of a human
being, so that the repairs, careening, calking
and the like which her men found necessary

for her might be found needful for some years
yet, when she would become as her crew
were — dead in time but staunch and enduring
so long as the Curse should be In force.
These were the speculations of a troubled
and bewildered mind. 1 glanced at the sail
astern and guessed It would not be long
before that shining pillar of canvas swept the
hull beneath It on to the delicate azure that
went trembling to the heavens there. Prins
had brought a chair for Imogene and she sat
near the tiller. Vanderdecken stood beside
her, watching the distant ship. Van Vogel
who had the watch, stumped the weather
side of the poop, often coming abreast of
where I stood to leeward, and occasionally
sending a scowling furtive glance my way.
It was not my policy to Intrude. Nay, the
rising of that vessel In our wake furnished a
particular emphasis to Imogene's advice tome,
for If haply I should Irritate Wanders
by some unwise remark or Indiscreet

behaviour, and the ship should turn out an
Englishman and act in some such fashion as
did the Saracen, my life might have to pay
for the incivility of my countrymen.

I had the yearning of the whole ship's
company in me for a pipe of tobacco, but I
had parted with all I owned — which now
vexed me, for my generosity had brought meno
particular kindness from the men — and
had not the courage to solicit a whiff or two
from the skipper's little store. Sometimes
Imogene would turn her head as if to view
the ship or glance at the sea, but In reality to
mark if I was still on deck, but I could not
discover in her way of doing this the slightest
hint that I should approach her. Occasionally
Vanderdecken addressed her, often he
would stand apparently wrapped In thought,
heeding nothing but the vessel astern, if one
might suppose so from his eyes being bent
thitherward. From time to time Van Vogel
picked up the glass and levelled it at the

ship, and then put it down with an air of
angry impatience — though you found the
motion suggested rather than showed as
an actually definable thing the counterfeit
passion displayed in the gestures and carriage
of an automaton.

Leaning against the rail of the bulwarks
as high as my shoulder-blades, I quietly
waited for what was to come, yet with a
m'lhd lively with curiosity and expectations.
What would Vanderdecken do ? What
colours would the stranger show ? How
would she behave ? What part might I
have to take in whatever was to happen ?
To be sure the stranger would not be up
with us for some while yet, but since breakfast
the breeze had slightly freshened, and
by the rapid enlargement of those shining
heights astern you knew that the wind had
but to gather a little more weight to swiftly
swirl yonder nimble craft up to within
musket-shot of this cumbrous ancient fabric.

I looked over the rail, watching the sickly-coloured
side slipping sluggishly through the
liquid transparent blue, marbled sometimes
by veins and patches of foam, flung with a
sullen indifference of energy from the hewing
cutwater, on the top of which there projected
a great beak, where yet lingered the remains
of a figure-head that I had some time before
made out to represent an Hercules, frowning
down upon the sea with uplifted arms, as
though in the act of smiting: with a club. It
was easy to guess that this ship had kept
the seas for some months since careening bv
observing the shell-fish below the water-line,
and the strings of black and green weed she
lifted with every roll. But, uncouth as was
the fabric, gaunt as her aged furniture made
her decks appear, inconvenient and ugly as
was her rig, exhibiting a hundred signs of
the primitiveness in naval construction of the
age to which she belonged, yet, when I lifted
my eyes from the water to survey her, 'twas

not without a sentiment of veneration beyond
the power of the horror the supernatural
of her and her crew raised in me to correct.
For was it not by such ships as this that the
great and opulent islands and continents of
the world had been discovered and laid open
as theatres for posterity to act dazzling parts
in ? Was it not with such ships as this that
battles were fought, the courage, audacity,
skill and fierce determination exhibited in
which many latter conflicts may, indeed,
parallel, but never in one single instance
surpass ? Was it not by such ships as this
that the great Protector raised the name of
Britain to such a height as exceeds all we
read of in the history of ancient or modern
nations ? What braver admirals, more skilful
soldiers, more valiant captains, stouter-hearted
mariners, have flourished than those
whose cannon flamed in thunder from the
sides of such ships as this ?

Ay, 'twas a structure to dream in when
VOL. n. K

the soul could let slip the dread which the
thought of the Curse and the appearance of
the crew inspired ; a wizard to hearken back
the imagination to olden times and show the
sun sparkling, and the Heavens blue, and
the sea azure In pictures, not more dead,
and not less vital either, than the company
who manned her, who were beings with
loving hearts and blood-fed skins In that
distant age into which she drove fancy,
romancing and recreating.

The time passed ; at the hour of eleven, or
thereabouts the hull of the ship astern was
visible upon the water-line. The breeze had
freshened, and the long heave of the svv^ell
left by the gale was whipped into wrinkles,
which melted into a creamy sparkling as they
ran. Under the sun, upon our starboard bow,
the ocean was kindled Into glory ; through
the trembling splendour the blue of the sea
surged up in fluctuating veins, and the conflict
of the sapphire dye welling up into the

liquid dazzle, where it showed an instant,
ere being overwhelmed by the blaze on the
water, was a spectacle of beauty worthy
of life-honos remembrance. Elsewhere, the
cried plain of the ocean stretched darker
than the Heavens, under which were many
clouds, moving with full white bosoms like
the sails of ships, carrying tinted shining
resembling wind-Quails, or fragments of solar
rainbows, upon their shoulders or skirts,
as they happened to offer them to the
sun.

By this time you felt the stirring of
curiosity throughout the ship. Whatever
jobs the crew had been put to they now neglected,
that they might hang over the sides
or stand upon the rail to watch and study the
ship astern of us. Many had an avidity in
their stare that could not have been matched
by the looks of famine-stricken creatures.
Whether they were visited by some dim
sense or perception of their frightful lot and

yearned, out of this weak emotion, for the
ship In pursuit, albeit they might not have
been able to make their wishes intelligible to
their own understandings, God knoweth.
'Twas moving to see them ; one with the
sharp of his hand to his forehead, another
fixedly gazing out of a tangle of grey hair,
a third showing fat and ghastly to the sunlight,
a fourth with black eyes charged
with the slate-coloured patches of blindness,
straining his Imperfect gaze under a bald
brow, corrugated Into lines as hard as
iron.

Vanderdecken had left Imogene and stood
on the weather quarter with the mate. The
girl being alone, I walked aft to her and said
in English, feigning to speak of the weather
by looking aloft as I spoke, '' I have held
aloof long enough, I think. He will not
object if I join you now ?''

*' No — his head is full of that ship yonder,"
she replied. " For my part I am as weary

of sitting as you must be of standing. Let
us walk a little. He has never yet objected
to our conversing. Why should he do so
now ?"

So saying she rose. Her sheer weariness
of being alone, or of talking to Wanders
was too much for her policy of
caution. We fell to quietly pacing the poop
deck to leeward, and with a most keen and
exquisite delight I could taste In her manner
the gladness our being together filled her
with, and foresee the spirit of defiance to
danger and risks that would grow in her
with the growth of our love.

No notice was taken of us. The eyes and
thoughts of all were directed to the ship.
From time to time Vanderdecken or Van
Vogelaar would inspect her through the
glass. Presently Antony Arents and Jans,
the boatswain, joined them, and the four
conversed as though the captain had called
a council.

*she Is picking us up very fast," said I
to Imogene, whilst we stood awhile looking
at the vessel. " I should not like to swear
to her nationality ; but that she Is an armed
ship, whether French, or Dutch, or English,
is as certain as that she has amazingly lively
heels."

How white her sails are, and how high
they rise!" exclaimed Imogene. 'she leans
more sharply than we."

"Ay," said I, "she shows twice her
number of cloths. Is It not astonishing," I
continued, softening my voice, "that ,
and his mates and men, should
not guess that there Is something very wrong
with them, from the mere contrast of such
beautifully cut and towering canvas as that
yonder with the scanty, storm-darkened rags
of sails under which this groaning old hull is
driven along ?"

"Yes, at least to you and me, who have
the faculty of appreciating contrasts. But

think of them as deficient In all qualities but
those which are necessary for the execution
of the Sentence. Then their heedlessness Is
that of a blind man, who remains Insensible
to the pointing of your finger to the object
you speak to him about."

Would to God you and I were quit of It
all," said I.

"We must pray for help, and hope for It
too !" she answered, with a swift glance at
me, that for a breathless moment carried the
violet beauty and shining depths of her eyes
fair to mine. An Instant's meeting of our
gaze only ! Yet I could see her heart In that
rapid, fearless, trustful look, as the depth of
the Heavens Is revealed by a flash of summer
lightning.

Suddenly Vanderdecken gave orders for
the ensign to be hoisted. The boatswain
entered the little house, and returned with
the flag which he bent on to the halliards
rove at the mizzen topmast-head. The

colours mounted slowly to his mechanical
pulling, and they were worthy indeed of
the dead-and-alive hand that hoisted them,
being as ragged and attenuated with age as
any banner hung high in the dusty gloom
of a cathedral. But the flag was distinguishable
as the Hollander's ensign, as you saw
when it crazily streamed out its fabric, that
was so thin in places, you thought you spied
the sky through it. One should say it was
a flag seldom flown on board the Dutchman,
to judge from the manner in which
the crew cast their eyes up at it, never
a one of them smiling:, indeed, though here
and there under the death-pallor there lay
a sort of crumpling of the flesh, as of a
grin. 'Twas a flag to drive thoughts of
home deep into them, and now and again
I would catch one muttering to another
behind his hand, whilst the most of them
continued to steadfastly regard the ensign
for many minutes after Jans had mast-headed

it, as though they fancied home could
not be far distant with that flag telling of
it.

THE CENTAUR FLIES FROM US.

Now the Dutch flag had not been flying
twenty minutes when, my sight being keen,
I thought I could perceive something resembling
a colour at the fore-royal masthead of
the ship. I asked Imogene if she saw it. She
answered " No." I said nothing, not being
sure myself, and was unwilling to intrude
upon the four men standing to windward by
asking for the telescope. On board our ship
they had set the sprit-topsail, and the forward
part of the dull, time-eaten, rugged old
vessel resembled a Chinese kite. She was
doing her best ; but let her splutter as she
would 'twas for all the world like the sailing
of a beer-barrel with a mast steeped in the

bunghole. And this, thought I, was the
vessel that gave the sHp to the frigate belonging
to Sir George Ascue's squadron [
The wake she made was short, broad and
oily — a square, fat, glistening surface of about
her own length — not greatly exceeding the
smoothness she would leave weather if drifting
dead to leeward under bare poles ; different
indeed from that suggestion of comet-like
speed which you find in the fleecy swirl of a
line of foaming waters boiling out from the
metalled run of a fleet cruiser, and rising and
falling and fading into dim distance like a
path of snow along a hilly land.

On board yonder ship they would have
perspective glasses of a power very different
from the flat lenses in Vanderdecken's tubes ;
and since by this time it was certain they had
us large in their telescopes, what would they
be thinking of our huge, old-fashioned tops,
fitter for the bowmen and musketeers of
Ferdinand Magellan and Drake than for

the small-arisen of even the days of the
Commonwealth, of the antique cut of our
canvas and the wild and disordered appearance
its patches and colour submitted, of the
grisly aspect of the wave-worn, storm-swept
hull, of the peaked shape and narrowness of
our stern, telling of times long vanished, as
do the covers of an old book or the arches in
an ancient church ?

Imogene and I continued our walk up and
down, talking of many things, chiefly of
England, whereof I gave her as much news,
down to the time of the sailing of the
Saracen, as I carried in my memory, until,
presently coming abreast of the group of
four, still on the weather quarter, every man
of whom, turn and turn about, had been working
away with the telescope at the ship,
Vanderdecken called me by name and
stepped over to us with the glass in his
hand.

'your sight is younger than ours, mynheer,"

said he, motioning towards Jans and
the two mates. "What flag do you make
yonder vessel to be flying at her fore-topgallant
masthead ?"

I took the glass and pointed It, kneeling to
rest It as before, and the Instant the stranger
came within the lenses I beheld Britannia's
glorious blood-red St. George's Cross blowing
out — a great white flag betwixt the fore-royal
yard and the truck that rose high above.
Pretending to require time to make sure, I
lingered to gather, If possible, the character
of the ship. From the cut of her sails, the
saucy, admirable set of them, the bigness of
the topsails, the hungry yearning for us I
seemed to find In the bellying of the studding-sails
she had thrown out. It would have been
Impossible for a nautical eye to mistake her
for anything but a State ship, though of what
rate I could not yet guess. There was a
refraction that threw her up somewhat, and
In the glass she looked to be swelling after us

in a bed of liquid boiling silver, with a thin
void of trembling blue between the whiteness
and the sea-line.

I rose and said, " The colour she shows is
English."

\^anderdecken turned savao^elv towards the
others and cried, " English!"

Arents let fly an oath ; Jans struck his

thigh heavily with his open hand ; Van

Vogelaar, scowling at me, cried, "Are you

sure, sir ?"

I am sure of the flag," said I ; "but she

may prove a Frenchman for all I know."
Vanderdecken clasped his arms tightly

upon his breast and sank into thought, with

the fire in his eyes levelled at the coming

ship.

"See there, gentlemen!" I exclaimed. "A

gun!"

Bright as the morning was I had marked

a rusty red spark wink in the bow of the

vessel like a flash of sunshine from polished

copper ; a little white ball blew away to leeward
expanding as it fled. An instant after,
just such another cloudy puff swept into the
jibs and drove out in a gleaming trail or two.
Presently the reports reached our ears in two
dull thuds, one after the other.

Vanderdecken stared aloft at his canvas,
then over the side, and joined the others.
]\Iy excitement was intense ; I could scarce
contain myself. I knew there was a British
squadron at the Cape, and 'twas possible that
fellow there might be on a reconnoitring or
cruising errand.

"You are sure she is English ?" Imo^ene
whispered.

She is a man-of-war ; she is flying our
flag. I don't doubt she is English," I replied.

The girl drew a long tremulous breath, and
her arm touching mine — so close together we
stood — I felt a shiver run through her.

"You are not alarmed, Imogene.-^" I exclaimed,
giving her her Christian name for

the first time, and finding a lover's sweetness
and delight in the mere uttering of It. She
coloured very faintly and cast her gaze upon
the deck.

What is going to happen ?" she whispered.
"Will they send you on board that
ship — keeping me ?"

''No! they'll not do that. If she be an
Englishman and has balls to feed her cannon
with " I cried, raising my voice unconsciously.


'' Hush !" she cried, " Van Vogelaar
watches us."

We were silent for a space that the attention
I had challenged should be again given
to the ship. During the pause I thought to
myself, '' But can her guns be of use ? How
much hulling and wounding should go to the
destruction of a vessel that has been rendered
imperishable by the Curse of Heaven ?
What Injury could musket and pistol, could
cutlass and hand-grenades deal men to whom

Death has ceased to be, who have outlived
Time and are owned by Eternity ?"

\^anderdecken, who had been taking short
turns upon the deck with heated strides,
stopped afresh to inspect the ship, and as he
did so another flash broke from her weather-bow,
and the smoke went from her in a curl.
The skipper looked at the others.

"She has the wind of us and sails three
feet to our one. Let the mainsail be hauled
up and the topsail brought to the mast. If
she be the enemy her flag denotes, her
temper will not be sweetened by a long pursuit
of which the issue is clear."

Van \^ogelaar, scowling venomously,
seemed to hang in the wind, on which
\'anderdecken looked at him with an expression
of face incredibly fierce and terrible.
The posture of his giant figure, his half-lifted
hand, the slight forward inclination of his
head as if he would blast his man with the
lightning of his eyes — it was like seeing

VOL. IL L

some marvellous personification of human
wrath ; and I whispered quickly into I mo-gene's
ear, "That will be how he appeared
when he defied his God !"

It was as if he could not speak for rage.
And swiftly was he understood. In a breath
Jans was rolling forward, calling to the men,
Arents was hastening to his station on the
quarter-deck, and Van Vogelaar was slinking
to the foremost end of the poop. The crew,
to the several cries that broke from the
mates and boatswain, dropped from rail and
ratline, where they had been standing staring
at the pursuing craft, and in ghastly silence,
without exhibition of concern or impatience,
fell to hauling upon the clew-garnets and
backing the yards on the main.

So weak was the ship's progress that the
bringing of the canvas to the mast immediately
stopped her way, and she lay as dead
as a buoy upon the heave of the sea. This
done, the crew went to the weather side,

whence, as they rightly supposed, they would
best view the approaching vessel. Jans held
to the forecastle, Arents to the quarter-deck,
and the mate hung sullen In the shadows cast
by the mizzen-shrouds upon the planks. My
heart beat as quickly as a baby's. I could
not Imagine what was to happen. Would
yonder man-of-war, supposing her British,
take possession of the Braave ? — that Is,
could she ? English powder, with earthquake
power, has thrown up a mighty
mountain of wonders ; but could It, with Its
crimson glare, thunder down the Curse by
and In which, this ship continued to sail and
these miserable men continued to live ? I
shuddered at the Impiety of the thought, yet
what ending of this chase was to be conjectured
If It were not capture ?

Vanderdecken, on the weather quarter,
watched the ship In his trance-like fashion.
How majestic, how unearthly, too, he looked
against the blue beyond, his beard stirring

and wavlnof like smoke in a faintly moving
atmosphere to the blowing of the wind I He
wore the aspect of a fallen god, with the fires
of hell glittering In his eyes and the passions
of the damned surging dark from his soul to
his face. Imogene and I had insensibly
gained the lee-quarter, and our whispers were
driven seawards from him by the breeze.

'how will this end?" I asked my sweet
companion. "If there be potency in the
Curse this ship cannot be captured."

She answered : " I cannot guess ; I have
not known such a thing as this to happen
before."

*' Suppose they send a prize crew on board
the Sentence will not permit of her navigation
beyond Agulhas — there is not a hawser
In all the world stout enough to tow this ship
round the Cape. As It Is, is not yonder
vessel doomed by her chasing us, by her
resolution to speak us ?"

There was a deep stillness fore and aft.

Xo human voice broke the silence. You
heard but the purring of the surges frothing
against our sides, the flap of a sail to the
regular roll of the fabric, a groan from the
heart of her, the soft shock of the sudden hit
of a billow. Nothings more. The silence of
the unmeasurable deep grew into a distinct
sense undisturbed bv the gentle universal
hissing that went up out of it. The sails of
the oncoming ship shone to the gushing of
the sunlight like radiant leanlno^ columns of
a porphyritic tincture breaking into moonlit
alabaster with the escape of the shadows to
the sunward stare of the cloths. Bland as
the fairy glory of the full moon floating ina
sea of ethereal indico was the shining of
those lustrous bosoms, each course and topsail
tremulous with the play of the golden
fringe of reef-points, and delicate beyond
language was the pencilled shadowing at the
foot of the rounded cloths. Like cloud upon
cloud those sails soared to the dainty little

royal, above the foremost of which there
blew Britannia's glorious flag, the blood-red
cross of St. George upon a field white as the
foam that boiled to as high as the hawse
pipes with the churning of the shearing cutwater
storming like a meteor through the
blue. Oh, she was English ! You felt the
blood of her country hot in her with the
sight of her flag that was like a crown
upon an hereditary brow, making her queen
of the dominion of the sea, roll where it
would !

She approached us like a roll of smoke,
and the wash of the froth along her black
and glossy bends threw out the mouths of
her single tier of cannon. She was apparently
a thirty-eight-gun ship, and as she
drew up, with a luffing helm that brought the
after-yard-arms stealing out past the silky
swells of the sails on the fore, you spied the
glitter and flash of the gold-coloured figurehead,
a lion, with its paw upon Britannia's

shield. When she was within a mile of us
she hauled down her studding-sails, clewed
up her royal and mizzen topgallant sail, and
drove quietly along upon our weather-quarter,
still heeling as though she would have us
note how lustrous was the copper, whose
brightness rose to the water-line, and what
finish that ruddy sheathing, colouring the
snow of the blue water leaping along it with
a streaking as of purple sunshine, gave to her
charms.

All this while, the master, mates and crew
of the Death Ship were as mute as though
they lay in their coffins. Vanderdecken
leaned upon his hand on the rail above the
quarter-gallery, and the motion which the
heave of the ship gave to his giant form by
the sweeping of it up and down the heavens
at the horizon emphasised his own absolute
motionlessness. Nevertheless, his gaze was
rooted in the ship, and the brightening of
the angry sparkle in them to the nearing of

the man-of-war was a never-to-be-forgotten
sight.

*' How Is this going to end ?" I whispered
to Imogene. " Is It possible that they are
still unable to guess the character of our
vessel ?"

The frigate had drawn close enough to
enable us to make out the glint of buttons
and epaulets on the quarter-deck, the uniform
of marines on the forecastle, and the heads of
seamen standing by the braces or at the guns
along the decks. She now hauled up her
mainsail but without backing her topsail,
luffed so as to shake the way out of her,
giving us, as she did so, an oblique view of
her stern very richly ornamented, the glass
of the windows flashing, and the blue swell
brimming to her name in large characters,
Centaur."

Ship ahoy !" came thundering down
through the trumpet at the mouth of a tall,
powerfully-built man erect on the rail close

against the mizzen-rigging : "What ship is
that ?"

Vanderdecken made no answer. The wind
blew in a moaning gust over the bulwark,
and there was the sound of a little jar and
shock as the old fabric leaned wearily on the
swell, but not a whisper fell from the men.
]meanwhile it was grown evident to me that
our ship was greatly puzzling the people of
the frigate. It looked indeed as if the men
had left their stations to crowd to the side,
for the line of the bulwarks was blackened
with heads. A group of officers stood on
the quarter-deck, and I could see them pointing
at our masts as though calling one
another's attention to the Braave's great
barricaded tops, to her sprit-topmast, the
cut and character of her rigging, and to
the many sirens that would convert her into
a wonder, if not a terror, in the eyes of
sailors.

"Ship ahoy !" now came down again, with

an edge of anger in the hurricane note.
'what ship is that ?"

At this second cry Vanderdecken broke
into life. He turned his face forward.
Bring me my trumpet !" he exclaimed, in a
voice whose rich, organ-Hke roll must have
been plainly heard on board the frigate,
whether his Dutch was understood or not.
The ancient tube I had seen in his cabin was
put into his hand. He stepped to the rail,
and placing the trumpet to his mouth, cried,
The Braave."

Where are you from ?"

Batavia!"

Where bound ?"

Amsterdam !"

There was another pause. The line of
heads throbbed with visible agitation along
the sides, and I saw one man of the group on
the quarter-deck go up to the captain, v/ho
was speaking our ship, touch his cap, and say
something. But the other imperiously waved

him off with a flourish of his trumpet, which
he instantly after applied to his Hps, and
shouted out, " Haul down your flag and I
will send a boat."

V^anderdecken looked towards me. " What
does he say ?" he exclaimed.

I told him. He called to Van Vogelaar,
who promptly enough came to the halliards
and lowered the flag to the deck. I watched
the descent of that crazy, attenuated, ragged
symbol. To my mind it was as affrighted
in its suggestions of unholy survival as the
whole appearance of the vessel or the countenance
and mechanic manners of the most
corpse-like man of the crew of her.

Scarce was the ensign hauled down when
there came to our ears the silver, cheerful
singing of a boatswain's pipe, the main-top-sail
was laid aback and the frigate's length
showed out as she fell slightly off from the
luff that had held her canvas trembling in the
wind. We were too far asunder for the nice

discernment of faces with the naked eye, but
methought since there seemed no lack of
telescopes aboard the frigate, enough should
have been made out of the line of deadly
faces which looked over our bulwark-rail, to
resolve us to the satisfaction of that British
crew.

Again was heard the silver chirping of the
boatswain's whistle ; a pinnace was lowered,
into which tumbled a number of armed seamen,
and the blades of eight oars flashed like
gold as they rose feathering from the first
spontaneous dip.

"They are coming!" cried Imogene In a
faint voice.

'' Let us keep where we are," I exclaimed,
^' Vanderdecken does not heed us. If we
move his thoughts will fly to you, and he may
give me trouble. Dear girl, keep a stout
heart. They will be sure to carry us to the
ship — proud to rescue you, at least ; then,
what follows must come — you will be safe !"

She put her hand under my arm. Tall as
were the bulwarks of the Braave, there was
swell enough so to roll the ship as to enable
me with every windward sway to see clear to
the water where the boat was pulling. With
beating hearts we watched. On a sudden
the oars ceased to rise and fall ; the seamen
hung upon them, all to a man, staring at our
ship with heads twisted as if they would
wing their necks ; then, as if impelled by
one mind, they let fall their oars to stop the
boat's way, all of them gazing with straining
eyeballs.

The officer who steered stood erect, peering
at us under his hand. The ship, God
knows, was plain to their view now — the age
and rottenness of her timbers, her patchwork
sails, the sickliness of such ghastly and
dismal hue as her sides discovered, the
ancientness of her guns and swivels ; above
all, the looks of the crew watching the boat's
approach — an array of figures more shocking

than were they truly dead, newly unfrocked
of their winding sheets and propped up
against the rail to horribly counterfeit living
seamen.

'why have they ceased rowing?" cried
Imogene, In a voice of bitter distress, and
withdrawing her hand from my arm to press
it upon her heart.

As she spoke a sudden commotion was
perceptible among the men in the boat ; the
officer shrilly crying out some order, flung
himself, as one in a frenzy, in the stern sheets ;
the larboard oars sparkled, and the desperate
strokes of the men made the foam fly in
smoke, whilst the starboard hands furiously
backed-water to get the boat's head round
swiftly, and before you could have counted
ten she was being pulled, in a smother of
froth, back to the frigate.

I was about to leap to the side and shout
to them, but at the instant Vanderdecken
turned and looked at me. Then it flashed

Upon my mind, " If I hail the boat, he and
\'an \'ogelaar, all of them, may imagine I
design to inform the frigate of the treasure !"
and the apprehension of what might follow
such a suspicion held my feet glued to the
deck.

"They have guessed what this ship is!"
said Imogene, in a voice full of tears.

I could not speak for the crushing disappointment
that caused the heart in me to
weigh down, heavy as lead. I had made
sure of the officer stepping on board, and
of his delivering the girl and me from this
accursed ship on hearing my story, and acting
as a British naval officer should when his
duty as a sailor, or his chivalry as a man, is
challenged ; in conformity with that noble
saying of one of our most valiant admirals,
who, on being asked whither he intended to
carry his ship — " To Hell !" he answered, " if
duty commands !"

Yet one hope lingered, though faintly

indeed ; the captain of the frigate had Imperiously
commanded the boat to be manned,
as I gathered by his manner of waving away
the officer, who had addressed him In a
remonstrant manner ; would he suffer the
return of the boat's crew until they had
obeyed his orders ?

I watched. Headlong went the boat,
smoking through the billows which arched
down upon her from the windward, and her
oars sparkled like sheet lightning with the
panic-terror that plied them ; the excitement
in the ship was visible enough, discipline had
given way to superstitious fear. I could seethe
captain flourishing his arm with threatening
gestures, lieutenants and midshipmen
running here and there, but to no purpose.
The whole ship's company, about three hundred
sailors and marines as I supposed, knew
what ship we were, and the very frigate herself
as she rolled without way, looked like
some startled beast mad for flight, the foam

draining from her bows to the slow pitching,
as a terrified steed champs his bit into froth,
and shudder after shudder going up out of
her heart of oak into her sails, as you would
have said to watch the tremble and filling and
backing of them to the wind.

It was as I had feared, and had the captain
of the man-of-war promised to blow his ship
and men into a thousand atoms if the boat's
crew refused to obey his orders to board us,
they would have accepted that fate in preference
to the hideous alternative adventure.
In a trice the pinnace was alongside the
frigate, the crew over the rail, and the boat
hoisted. The yards on the main few round,
royal and topgallant-sails were set, studding-sails
were run aloft, and before ten minutes
had elapsed since the boat had started to
board us, the frigate, under a whole cloud of
canvas, was heeling and gendy rolling and
pitching over the brilliant blue sea, with her
head north east, her stern dead at us, the gilt

VOL. IL M

there and the windows converting her betwixt
her quarters into the appearance of a huge
sparkling square of crystal, the glory of
which flung upon her wake under it a splendour
so great that it was as though she had
fouled a sunbeam and was dragging the
dazzle after her.

I looked at Imogene ; her beautiful eyes
had yearned after the ship into the dimness
of tears.

''My dear, do not fret," said I, again
calling her my dear, for I still lacked the
courage to call her my love ; "this experience
makes me clear on one point : we shall
escape, but not by a ship."

How, if not by a ship ?" she cried,
tremulously.

Before I could reply, Vanderdecken looked
round upon us, and came our way, at the
same time telling Van Vogelaar to swing the
topsail-yard and board his main tack.

'Tis in this fashion," he exclaimed, 'that

most of the ships I meet serve me. It would
be enough to make me deem your countrymen
a Hly-Hvered lot if the people of other
nations, my own included, did not sheer off
before I could explain my needs or learn
their motives in desiring to board us. What
alarmed the people of that ship, think you,
mynheer ?"

'who can tell, sir?" I responded, in as
collected a manner as I could contrive.
"They might suspect us hardly worth the
trouble of capturing "

He motioned an angry dissent.

''Or," I continued, abashed and speaking
hurriedly, "they might have seen something
in the appearance of your crew to promise a
bloody resistance."

"By the Holy Trinity!" he cried, with the
most vehement scorn, "if such a thing were
conceivable I should have been glad to confirm
it with a broadside !" and his eye came
from the frigate that was fast lessening in the

distance to his poor show of rust-eaten sakers
and green-coated swivels.

It was sure that he had no suspicion of the
truth. Not knowing that he and his ship
were accurst, how was it possible for him to
guess the cause of the behaviour of the ships
which fled from him ? You would suppose
that he and the rest of the crew discovered
many signs of satisfaction and delight at this
escape from a ship to whose commands they
had hauled down their flao^ ; instead, they
hung upon the rail watching the frigate shifting
her helm for a hasty flight without a
murmur, a note of speech ; nothing appeared
in them but a dull, leaden, Dutch phlegmatic
curiosity, if indeed this quality at all possessed
them, and when Van Vogelaar sang out to
them to brace round the yards on the main,
they fell to the job of trimming sail and
getting way on the ship with an incredible
ghastly indifference in their countenances
and in their movements, as they went about

their silent labour. Indeed, whatever passions
they had seemed to pertain to what
was to come ; I mean, the heaving in sight of
a ship would make them eager for tobacco or
for whatever else they needed and she might
have ; but when the incident, the adventure,
the experience — call it what you will — was
passed, they turned a black and passionless
mind upon it, without the capacity of grief or
gladness.

It was an hour after our usual dinner-time,
and Prins arrived to tell the captain the meal
was on the table. He put ImxOgene's hand
under his arm caressingly, and I followed
them with one wistful look at the frigate that
was already a toy and far off, melting like a
cloud into the junction of sapphire ether and
violet ocean. I saw Vanderdecken level a
glance at her too, and as we entered the
cabin he said, addressing me, but without
turning his head, and leading Imogene to the
table. "It will be a disappointment to you,

mynheer, that your countrymen would not
stay to receive you ?"

"It was your Intention," said I, "that I
should go with them ?"

Certainly," he answered, confronting me
slowly and eyeing me haughtily; "you
are an Englishman, but you are not my
prisoner."

We may be more fortunate next time," I
said, coldly.

'TIs to be hoped!" said Van Vogelaar,
who had followed last, speaking In his
harshest and sourest tone.

I turned to eye him ; but at the moment
the parrot, probably animated by our voices,
croaked out, hoarsely, "cub Z^n al DeiDoinD!"
on which the fellow broke Into a coarse,
raw "ha! ha!" yet never stirring a muscle
of his storm-hammered face. 'Twould have
been like fighting with phantoms and fiends
to war in words with these men. I am here,
thought I, and there Is yonder sweetheart

to rescue before I am done - with this Death
Ship ; and with a smile at her earnest, half-startled
eyes I seated myself.

CAPTAIN VANDERDECKEN WALKS IN HIS
SLEEP.

This incident of the English frigate satisfied
me that it was Vanderdecken's intention to
get rid of me at the first opportunity that
offered. There could be no doubt that Van
Vogelaar had poisoned his mind against me,
for, certainly, at the start of this experience
of mine, the skipper had treated me with
humanity and a sort of heated, lofty courtesy ;
and since he deemed himself homeward
bound, and regarded his vessel as a good
sailer, he would not think it necessary to
transmit mee if his mind had not been
acidulated.

I remember when the evening came on

that same day we had been chased and
abandoned by the Centaur, walking up and
down the lee-side of the short poop alone,
Arents, who had charge, standing silent near
the helmsman. I had worked myself up into
great confusion and distress of mind. Dejection
had been followed by a fit of nervousness,
and when I looked around me at the
unmeasurable waste of ocean darkling in the
east to the growing shadows there, at the
ancient heights of canvas above me, with the
dingy rusty red of the western light slipping
from the hollow breasts and off the sallow
spars, till the edges of the sails melted into a
spectral faintness upon the gradual gloom, at
the desolate, grassy appearance of the decks,
the dull motions, the death-like posture of the
three or four men standing here and there
forward — -I felt as if the curse of the ship had
fallen upon my heart and life too — that It was
my doom to languish in her till my death — to
love and yet be denied fruition — to yearn for

our release with the same Impotency of desire
that governed the navigation of this Death
Ship towards the home It was the Will of
God she was never to approach.

Yet In any other mood I should have
found an exquisite repose for the soul In this
interval. There was an aroma as of the
tropics in the gentle north-west wind. The
ship, faintly Impelled, went with a small curl
of silver at her bow, as softly along the sea as
the reflection of a star slides upon the brow
of a smooth swell. The peace of the grave
was in the floating tomb, and had my spirits
been easy there would have been something
of the delicious rapture of intellectual enjoyment
that the opium smoker Is said to Inhale
through the stem of his pipe in the indolent
watching of this ancient ship, swimming out
of daylight into darkness, with the reflected
hectic on the larboard beam creeping like
vermilion smoke up her masts and over
her sails, and vanishing oft" the trucks like the

trailing skirts of some heavenward flying
vision.

On turning from a short contemplation of
the sea over the stern, I observed Imogene,
at the head of the ladder conducting from the
poop to the quarter-deck, watching me. It
was the first opportunity which had offered
for speaking with her alone since dinner-time.

"Captain \'anderdecken has gone to his
cabin to take some rest," said she. " I knew
you were above by your tread."

Ah ! you can recognise me by that ?"

"Yes, and by the dejection in it, too," she
answered, smiling. "There is human feeling
in the echo ; the footfalls of the others are as
meaningless as the sound of wood smitten by
wood."

I am very dull and weary-hearted," said
I. " Thanks be to God that you are in this
ship to give me hope and warmth."

"And I thank Him, too, for sending you
to me," said she.

I took her hand and kissed It ; Indeed, but
for Arents and the helmsman, I should have
taken her to my heart with my lips upon
hers. " Let us walk a little," said I. " We
will step softly. We do not want the captain
to surprise us."

I took her hand, and wee slowly paced the
deck.

'all the afternoon," said I, " I have been
considering how we are to escape. There Is
no man among this ghostly crew who has a
friendly eye for me, and so whatever Is done
must be done by me alone."

'you must trust no one," she cried,
quickly; "the plan you light upon must be
our secret. There Is a demon Imprisoned In
Vanderdecken ; If It should be loosed he
might take your life!" •

I don't doubt It. And suppose I went
armed, my conflict would be with deathless
men ! No ! no ! my plan must be our secret,
as you say. But what Is It ? If but a gleam

of light sank Its ray into this darkness I
should take heart."

She pressed my hand, saying, '' The
frigate's abandoning of us has depressed you.
But an opportunity will surely come."

Yes, the behaviour of the frigate has
depressed me. But why ? Because she has
made me see that the greatest calamity which
could befall us would be our encountering a
ship willing to parley with us''

Is it so?"

I fear ; because Vanderdecken would
send me to her, and separate us." Then
bethinking me, by observing her head sink,
how doleful and unmanly was such reasoning
as this, such apprehension of what might be,
without regard to the possibility of our salvation
lying In the very circumstance or
situation I dreaded, I said, heartening my
voice, " Imogene, though I have no plan,
yet my Instincts tell me that our best, perhaps
our sole chance of escaping from this ship

will be in some necessity arising for her to
drop anchor off the coast, for careening, or for
procuring provisions and water. Think, my
dear, closely of it ! We dare not count upon
any ship we meet taking such action as will
ensure our joint deliverance. No body of
seamen, learning what vessel this is, would
have anything to do with her. Then, as to
escaping from her at sea, even if it were in
the power of these weak, unaided arms to
hoist one of those boats there over the side
unperceived, I know not whether my love
for thee, Imogene — whether, O forgive me if
I grieve you "

She stirred her hand, as if to remove it,
but I held it the tighter, feeling In the warm
and delicate palm the dew that emotion was
distilling there.

She was silent, and we came to a stand.
She said In a weak and trembling voice :
'' You do not grieve me. Why should I
grieve to be loved ?"

'you are beautiful and good and a sailor's
child, my dearest," said I.

And friendless."

'' No ! bid me say I love thee ?"

She bade me whisper, drawing closer tome.
I swiftly kissed her cheek that was cold
with the evening wind. Great Heaven 1
what a theatre was this for love-making. To
think of the sweetest, in our case the purest,
of emotions having its birth in, owing its
growth to, the dreaded fabric of the Death
Ship! Yet I, that a short while ago was
viewing the vessel with despondency and
fear and loathing, now for a space found her
transfigured ! The kiss my darling had permitted,
her gentle speech, the caress that lay
in her drawing close to me, had kindled a
light in my heart, and the lustre was upon
the ship ; a faint radiance viewless to the
sight, but of a power to work such transformation,
that instead of a gaunt phosphoric
structure sailing through the dusk, there

floated under the stars a fabric whose sails
might have been of satin, whose cordage
might have been formed of golden threads,
whose decks might have been fashioned out
of pearl !

We were silent for awhile, and then she
said, in a coyly - coquettish voice with a
happy note of music in it, "What were you
saying, Mr. Fenton, when you interrupted
yourself?"

Dear heart!" cried I, "you must call me
Geoffrey now"

"What were you saying, Geoffrey's" said
she.

"Why," 1 replied, "that even were it
possible for me to secure one of those boats,
and launch it unperceived, my love would
not suffer me to expose you to the perils of
such an adventure."

My life is in your keeping, Geoffrey,"
said she. "You need but lead — I will follow.
Yet there is one thing you must consider : if

we escape to the land, which seems to me the
plan that is growing in you "

I said, *eyes," watching the sparkling of
the stars in her eyes, which she had fixed
on mine.

Are not the perils which await us there
greater than any the sea can threaten, supposing
we abandoned ourselves to its mercy
in that little boat yonder ? There are many
wild beasts on the coast ; often in the
stillness of the night, when we have been
lying at anchor, have I heard the roaring and
trumpeting of them. x-\nd more dreadful
and fearful than leopards, wild elephants
and terrible serpents — all of which abound,
dear — crocodiles in the rivers and poisonous,
tempting fruit and herbs — are the savages,
the hideous, unclothed Raffles, and the barbarous
tribes which I have heard my father
tell of as occupying the land for leagues and
leagues from the Cape to the coast opposite
the Island of madagascar."

VOL. II. N

A Strange shudder ran through her, and
letting sHp my hand to take my arm — for
now that she knew I loved her she passed
from her girlish coyness into a bride-like
tenderness and freedom, and put a caressing
manner Into her very walk as she paced at
my side — she cried, " Oh, do you know,
Geoffrey, if ever a nightmare freezes my
heart It is when I dream I am taken captive
by one of those black tribes, and carried
beyond the mountains to serve as a slave."

There was so much truth in what she said
that I could not listen to her without an
emotion of distress ; since, my own judgment
forbidding the escape by the boat — if It were
possible for us so to escape — her dread of the
land was like the complete shutting out of all
self-deliverance. However, I felt that no
good could come of a conversation that
insensibly led us into disheartening reflections,
so I gradually worked our thoughts Into
another channel, and presently found myself

breathing my passion afresh into her ear and
hearkening to hurried answers, sighed rather
than spoken, so gentle was her utterance.
The dusk had thickened into night, the stars
swung in glory to the majestical motion of
the masthead, there was a curl of moon in
the west like a paring of pearl designed for a
further enrichment of the jewelled skies, the
phosphor trembled along the decks, and all
substantial outlines swam into indistinctness
in an atmosphere that seemed formed of fluid
indigo. Visible against the luminaries past
the quarter-gallery was the figure of the
mate ; but the helmsman near him was
shrouded by the pale haze that floated
smoke-like about the binnacle. Flakes of
the sea-glow slipped slowly past upon the
black welter as though the patches of star-dust
on high mirrored themselves in this
silent ebony water. From time to time a
brilliant meteor flashed out upon the night
and sailed into a ball of fire that far outshone

the glory of the greatest stars. The dew fell
lightly ; the crystals trembled along the rail
and winked to the stirring of the wind with
the sharp sparkle of diamonds ; and though
we were In the cold season, yet the light
breeze, having a flush of northing In It, was
pure refreshment without touch of cold, so
that a calmer, fairer night than this I do not
conceive ever descended upon a ship at sea.
I was a young fellow In those days. My
passion for the lonely and lovely girl who
walked beside me was keen and hot ; that
she loved me as I loved her I could not be
certain, for women are slower, and therefore
the surer, In their capacity of loving than
men ; but that she did love me she made me
know by a subtle sweetness of words and
behaviour. I was young, I say, of a naturally
merry and sanguine heart, and the gladness
of my love entered into the night, smoothing
out all the alarms and anxieties from my
mind, and making me so much myself that

for my light spirits I might have been onboard
some English ship with my sweetheart,
swiftly heading for home, instead of treading
with her the deck of a vessel accurst of
Heaven, and moving: through the niofht, a
ghostly shadow palely gleaming with death-fires,
on a vova2:e that was never to have an
end.

Thrice the clock struck in the cabin, and
whenever the first chime sounded I would
start as if we were near land and the sound
was the note of a distant cathedral bell ; and
punctually with the last stroke would come
the rasping voice of the parrot, reminding all
who heard it of their condition. Occasionally,
Arents moved, but never by more than a
stride or two : forward all was dead blackness
and stillness, the blacker for the unholy,
elusive shining, the stiller for the occasional
sighing of the wind, for the thin, shaking
sound of waters, Qrentlv stemmed, for the
moan now and again that floated muffled out

of the hold of the ship. Twice Imogene said
she must leave me ; but I could not bear to
part with her. The night was our own, yea,
even the ship, in her solitude wrought by the
silent figures aft and the tomb-like repose
forward, seemed our own ; and my darling,
being in her heart as loth as I to separate,
lingered yet and yet till the silver sickle of
the moon had gone down red into the
western ocean, and the clock below had
struck half-past eleven.

Then she declared it was time, indeed, for
her to be gone ; should Vanderdecken come
on deck and find her with me he might
decide to part us effectually by sending me
forward, and forbidding me to approach the
cabin end ; so, finding her growing alarmed,
and hearing the quick beating of her heart in
her speech, I said, "Good-night," kissing her
hand, and then releasing her. She seemed
to hurry, stopped and looked behind; I stood
watching her ; seeing her stop, I held out my

arms, and went to her, and she returned tome.
With what love did I kiss her upturned
brow, and hold her to my heart !

She was yet In my arms, when the great
figure of Vanderdecken rose above the ladder,
and ere I could release her he was close tous,
towering In shadow like some giant spirit.
The start I gave caused her to turn ; she saw
him, and Instantly grasping my hand drew
me against the bulwark, where we stood
waiting for him to speak. Love will give
spirit to the pitlfullest recreant, and had I
been the most craven-hearted of men the
obligation to stand between such a sweetheart
as Imogene and one whom she feared,
though he stood as high as Goliath, would
have converted me Into a hero. But I was
no coward ; 1 could look back to my earliest
experiences and feel that with strictest confidence.
Yet, spite of the animating presence
of Imogene, the great figure standing In front
of us chilled, subdued, terrified me. Had he

been mortal I could not have felt so ; nay,
had his demeanour, his posture, been that
which Intercourse with him had made familiar,
I should not have suffered from the superstitious
fears which held me motionless, and
made my breathing laboured. But there was
something new and frightful in the pause he
made abreast of us, In the strange and menacing
swinging of his arms, in the pose of his
head defiantly held back, and in his eyes,
which shone with a light that owed nothing
to the stars, in the pallid gloom of his face.
His gaze seemed to be rivetted on the ocean-line
a little abaft of where we stood, and
therefore did he appear to confront us. The
expression In his face I could not distinguish,
but I feebly discerned an aspect of distortion
about the brow, and clearly made out that
his under-jaw was fallen so as to let his mouth
lie open, causing him to resemble one whose
soul was convulsed by some hideous vision.
Imogene pressed my hand. 1 looked at

her, and she put her white forefinger to her
mouth, saying In accents so faint, that they
were more Hke the whispers one hears in
memory than the utterance of human hips :
"He Is walking In his sleep. In a moment
he will act a part. I have seen this thing
once before ; " and so fairly speaking she
drew me lightly towards the deeper gloom
near the bulwarks where the mizzen-rigging
was.

For some moments he continued standing
and gazing seawards, slowly swinging his
arms In a way that suggested fierce yet
almost controlled distress of mind. He then
started to walk, savagely patrolling the deck,
sweeping past us so close as to brush us with
his coat, then crossing athwart ships and
madly pacing the other side of the deck,
sometimes stopping with a passionate violent
suddenness at the binnacle, at the card of
which he seemed to stare, then with denunciatory
gesture resuming his stormy striding

now lengthwise, now crosswise, now swinging
his great figure into an abrupt stand to view
the sea, first to starboard then to larboard,
now standing aloft ; and all with airs and gestures
as though he shouted orders to the
crew and cried aloud to himself, though
saving his swift deep breathing that, when he
passed us close, sounded like the panting of
bellows in angry or impatient hands, no
syllable broke from him.

Some spell is upon him !" I exclaimed.
"I see how it is! — he is acting over again
the behaviour that renders this ship accurst."
'' I saw him like this two years ago ; 'twas
earlier in the night," whispered Imogene.
'' He so scared me that I fainted."

That Arents and the helmsman took
notice of this strange somnambulistic behaviour
in their captain I could not tell : he
approached them as often as he approached
us, and much of the dumb show of his rage
was enacted close to them ; but so far as I

could judge from the distance at which we
stood, their postures were as quiet as though
they were lay figures, or passionless and insensible
creatures without understandings to
be touched. It was a heart-subduing spectacle
beyond words to tell of. Bit by bit his
temper grew, till his motions, his frenzied
racing about the deck, his savage glaring
aloft, his fury when, in this distemper of
sleep, his perusal of the compass disappointed
him, were those of a maniac. I saw the
white froth on his lips as he approached us
close to level a flaming glance seawards, and
had he been Satan himself I could not have
shrunk from him with deeper loathing and
colder terror. The insanity of his wrath, as
expressed by his gestures — for he was as
mute as one bereft of his voice by agony
was rendered the wilder, the more striking
and terrible by the contrast of the night,
the peace of it, the splendour of the stars,
the silence upon the deep rising up to those

luminaries like a benedictory hush ! For
such an infuriated figure as this you needed
the theatre of a storm-tossed ship, with the
billows boiling all about and over her, and
the scenery of a pitchy sky torn by violet
lightning and piercing the roaring ebony of
the seas with zig-zag fire, and the trumpeting
of the tempest deepened by a ceaseless
crashing of thunder.

He continued to lash himself Into such
a fury that, for very pity, misery and horror,
you longed to hear him cry out, for the
expression would give relief to his soul,
strangling and In awful throes. Suddenly
he fell upon his knees ; his hands were
clenched, and he lifted them on high ; his
face was upturned ; and as I watched him
menacing the stars with Infuriate gestures, I
knew that even as he now showed so did he
appear when he blasphemously dared his
Maker. A soft gust of the midnight air blew
with a small moan through the rigging.

Vanderdecken let drop his arms, swayed a
while as if he would fall, staggered to his
feet, and with his hands pressed to his eyes
as though indeed some sudden stroke of
lightning had smitten him blind, came with
wavering gait, in which was still visible a
sullen and disordered majesty, to the poop
ladder, down which he sightlessly went,
steered by the wondrous, unintelligible
faculty that governs the sleep-walker.

I pulled off my hat and wiped my forehead,
that was damp with sweat.

Great God I" I cried. *' What a sight to
behold ! What anguish is he made to suffer !
How is it that his human form does not
scatter, like one broken on a wheel, to the
rending of such infernal passions as possess
him?"

Imogene was about to answer when on a
sudden the first stroke of midnight came
floating up in the cathedral-note of the clock.

"Hark!" she exclaimed. "It is twelve!

Arents will now be relieved bv \'an \'oo:elaar.
If that malignant creature spies me here at
this hour with you, oh, 'twould be worse
through the report he would give than if
\"anderdecken himself had surprised us.
Good-night. ]Mr. Fenton !"'

She quickly slipped from my grasp, and
faded down the ladder. As she vanished I
put my hand to my heart to subdue its beat-inch.
and whilst I thus stood a moment the last
note of the clock vibrated into the stillness
on deck and scarcely less clear than had the
accursed croak sounded close beside me, rose
the parrot's detestable cry :

WE SIGHT A DISMASTED WRECK.

Terrible as must have been the sufferings of
Vanderdecken in the tragic passage through
which his spirit had driven in a silent madness
of sleep, yet next morning I could perceive
no trace of his frenzy In the cold and ghastly
hue of his face. I found him on deck when
I quitted my melancholy cabin, and he responded
to the good morning I gave him with
a touch of civility in his haughty, brooding
manner that was not a little comforter tome,
who had been kept awake till 'twas
hard upon daylight by remembrance of the
spectacle I had witnessed, and by apprehensions
of how a person of his demoniacal
passions might serve me if I should give him,
or if he should imagine, offence.

The draught — for the breeze was little
more — had come more northerly, and the
ship, as I might guess by the sun, was heading
about north east. There were swathes
and circles of gleaming ribbed clouds of gossamer
texture all about the sky, and they
looked as if some mighty hand had been
swinging pearls, as a sower hurls seeds, about
the heavens, which had been compacted by
the wind into many different figures. They
sobered the dazzle where the sun was, so
that his wake lay upon the ocean in flashing
streaks, instead of the fan-shaped path of
glory he would have wrought had he shone
in unstained azure.

"There should be promise of a breeze,
mynheer," said I, 'ein the shape and lay of
those high clouds and the little dimness you
notice to windward."

"Yes," he answered, darting a level glance,
under his bushy, corrugated brows, into the
North quarter ; " were it not for what hath

been sighted from aloft, I should be steering
with my starboard tacks aboard."

What may be in sight, sir ?" I asked,
dreading to hear that it was a ship.

He answered, '* The sparkle of a wet,
black object was visible from the cross-trees
at sunrise. Arents finds it already in the
perspective glass from the fore-top. He
reports it the hull of an abandoned ship.
He may be mistaken. Your sight is keen,
sir ; we greatly need tobacco ; but I would
not willingly lose time in running down to a
vessel that may be water-logged, and therefore
utterly unprofitable."

'you wish me to go aloft and see what I
can make of the object, sir ?"

''If you will be so good," he answered,
with a grave inclination of the head.

"Captain Vanderdecken," said I, "I should
be glad to serve you in any direction. I only
regret your courtesy will not put me to the
proof."

VOL. II. o

He bowed again and pointed to the telescope
to which Arents had fastened a lanyard
that he might carry it aloft on his back. I
threw the bight over my head and walked
forward, guessing now that Vanderdecken's
civility was owing to his intending to make
me oblige him in this way. Coming abreast
of the weather fore-shrouds, I jumped on to
an old gun, thence leaped to the rail and
swung myself into the rigging, up which,
however, I stepped with the utmost caution,
the seizings of the ratlines looking very
rotten, and the shrouds themselves so grey
and worn that they seemed as old as the ship
herself, and as if generations of seamen had
been employed to do nothing else but squeeze
the tar out of them. There was a good-sized
lubber's hole through which I easily
passed, the barricades prohibiting any other
entrance into the top ; and when I was
arrived, I found myself on a great circular
platform, green as a field with moss and

grass, and surrounded by a breastwork of
wood to the height of my armpits, the
scantling extraordinarily thick, but answering
in age and appearance to the rest of
the timber in the ship, with loop-holes for
muskets and small cannon.

The foot of the fore-sail having a very
large curve, I had a clear view of the sea on
both bows under it, and the moment I ran
my naked eye from the windward to the
leeward side, then I saw, fair betwixt the
bathed and the knighted, the flashing of
what was unquestionably the wet side of a
dismasted ship rolling to the sun. The
regular coming and going of the sparkling
was like the discharge of a piece fired and
quickly loaded and fired again. I pointed the
telescope, and the small magnification aiding
my fairly keen sight I distinctly made out the
hull of a vessel of between three hundred and
four hundred tons, rolling with a very sluggish
regularity and shooting out a strong blaze of

light whenever the swell gave her streaming
sides to the glory. I was pretty sure, by the
power and broadness of this darting radiance,
that her decks were not submerged, that
indeed she would still show an indifferently
good height of side above the water, and
thereupon threw the glass over my back for
the descent, pausing, however, to take a
view of the ship from the height I occupied,
and wondering not a little, with something
of amusement, too, at the extraordinary
figure her body offered thus surveyed.

In fact, she was not three times as long as
she was broad, and she had the sawn-off
look of a wagon down there. After every
swimming lift of her head by the swell, the
droop of her bows hove a smearing of froth
into the large blue folds, that might have
passed for an overflowing of soap-suds from
a wash-tub ; and upon that whiteness all
the forward part of her stood out in a sort of
jumble of wondrous catheads, curved head-boards

slnkinor Into a well, out of which
forked the massive bowsprit, as the people
who fashioned it would have spelt it, with its
heavy confusion of gear, yards, stays for the
sprit-topmast, and the like. I had a good
sight of the sails up here, and perceived they
were like the famous stocking of which Dr.
Arbuthnot, or Pope, or one of the wits of
Queen x\nne's reign, wrote ; that is, that
though they might have been the same cloths
which the Braave sheeted home when she
set sail from Batavia, yet they had been so
patched, so darned, and over and over again
so repaired, that to prove they were the
same sails would be as nice a piece of metaphysical
puzzling as to show that they were
not.

Yet the sun flung his light upon their
mani-hued dinginess, and as I looked up they
swung to the heave of the ship with a hard
blank staring of their breasts that seemed like
the bending of an idiot's graze at the clusters

and wreaths, and curls of pearly vapour over
the lee horizon, and though my glance was
swift yet even in a breathless moment a confusion
was wrought, as' though the shining
prismatic clouds were starting to sweep like
some maelstromic brimming of feathery foam
around the ship and founder her in gradual
gyrations of blue ether and snow-like mist.
Great God! thought I, here, to be sure, is a
place to go mad in ! To lie upon this dark
green platform, to hearken to the spirit-whisperings
amid this ancient cordage, to behold
these darkened sails slowly swelling towards
some bloody disc of moon soaring out of a
belt of sooty vapour, to listen to the voices of
the fabric beneath and to the groans of her
old age dying in echoes in the caverns of
her stretched canvas — by my father's hand !
thought I, if I am to save my brain I must
put myself nearer to Imogene than this ; so
I dropped with a loud heart through the
lubber's hole, and stepped down the ratlines

as fast as my fears of the soundness of the
seizings would suffer me to descend.

"What do you see, mynheer?" asked
Vanderdecken.

The hull of a ship, sir," I replied. " She
is deep in the water but not too deep for
boarding, I believe, for the sunshine finds a
wide expanse to blaze out upon when she
rolls."

'' Well," he exclaimed, " an hour or two can
make but very little difference," and he sent
his impatient, imperious gaze into the blue to
windward, and fell to marching the deck
athwart ships, opposite the tiller-head, becoming
suddenly as heedless of my presence
as if I had been a brass swivel on his
bulwarks. But I was less likely to be
chagrined by his discourtesy than by his
attention. It had, indeed, come to my never
feeling so easy in my mind as when he perfectly
neglected me.

Our bringing of that hull within sight from

the deck ran Into more than an hour or two.
Close-hauled, and the breeze light, the Braave
scarce seemed able to push her bows through
the water at all. The bubbles and foam-bells
shaded past as languidly as the tide of ebb
In Its last quarter wrinkles against the stem
of an anchored vessel.

At breakfast nothing else was talked of,
and little enough was said about It too. We
were. In truth, a silent party. Every look of
Imogene caused me to see how the memory
of last night worked In her — a night of sweetness
and terror — of kisses and caresses, and
entrancing revelations — and of an horrific
spectacle of enormous and speechless anguish,
humanly devilish ! On deck, In the early
sparkling greenness of the morning, I had
been sensible of no recoil on meeting 
; but at table I sat close to him ;
to his presence the recollection of the foam
upon his lip, his fallen jaw, the soul-devouring,
feverish restlessness of his enraged movements,

his dreadful posture of imprecation,
imparted insufferable emphasis ; and when
I quitted the cabin for the deck, not having
spoken half-a-dozen syllables during the
meal, the feeling of relief in me was like the
removal of a cold hand from my heart.

It was two hours-and-a-half after sighting
the hull from the masthead, that it lay visible
upon the sea from the deck. Luckily, the
breeze had stolen a point or two westerly,
which enabled our ship to keep the wreck
to leeward of our bowsprit ; otherwise, we
should never have fetched it by two miles,
without a board, and that might have ended
in a week's plying to windward. The crew
had long got scent of this object ahead, and
beinor as keen for tobacco as was ever a
sharp-set stomach for victuals, they were
collected in a body on the forecastle, wherein
their dull, lifeless, mechanic way they stood
staring and waiting. Although those who
had the watch on deck had been at various

sorts of work when the wreck hove into view
over the forecastle rail — such as making
spun-yarn, sawing wood, (as I supposed for
the cook-room) sail-mending, splicing old
running gear, and the like — yet, I remarked
they dropped their several jobs just as it
suited them, and I never observed that
either of the mates reproved them, or that
the captain noticed their behaviour ; whence
I concluded that the Curse had stricken the
ship into a kind of little republic, wherein
such discipline as was found was owing to a
sort of general agreement among the men
that such work as had to be done must be
done.

I found myself watching the wreck with a
keener interest than could ever possess the
breasts of the wretched master, mates, or
crew. Was any stratagem conceivable to
enable me to use that half-sunk vessel as an
instrument for escaping with Imogene from
this Death Ship ?

My dearest girl came to my side whilst
my brain was thus busy, and in a soft undertone
I told her of what I was thinking. She
listened with eager eyes.

Geoffrey," said she, " you are my captain.
Command me, and I will do your bidding."

''My darling," I replied, "if you knew
what a miserable, nervous creature this Death
Ship has made of me you would guess I was
the one to be led, you to direct. But yonder
craft will not serve us. No ! Better that
little boat there than a hull which the
crew, ay, and perhaps the very rats have
abandoned."

THE DEAD HELMSMAN.

I PROVED right in the estimate I had formed
from the fore-top of the size of the wreck.
Her burthen was within four hundred tons.
We gradually drove down to her, and when
we were within musket-shot Vanderdecken
ordered the topsail to be laid aback. The
breeze had freshened, the little surges ran ina
pouring of silver-gushing heads, the broad-backed
swell rose in brimming violet to our
channels, and our ship rolled upon It helpless
as an egg-shell. The wallowing of the wreck,
too, was like the plashing and struggling of
some sentient thing heavily labouring, with
such fins or limbs as God had given it, to
keep itself afloat.

That there was no lack of water in her was
certain ; yet, having the appearance of a ship
that had been for some days abandoned, at
which time it might be supposed that her
people would imagine her to be in a sinking
condition, it was clear that in a strange
accidental way the leak had been healed,
possibly by some substance entering and
choking it. All three masts were gone
within a foot or two of the deck. Her hull
was a dark brown, that looked black in the
distance against the blue, with the mirror-like
flashing from the wet upon it ; she had a
handsome stern, the quarter-galleries supported
by gilt figures, wherefrom ran a broad
band of gilt along her sides to the bows.
Under her counter there stole out in large,
white characters, with every heave of her
stern, the words " Prince of Wales," and
'twas startling to see the glare of the letters
coming out in a ghastly, staring sort of way
from the bald brow of the swell, as it sloped

from the gilded stern. Her name proved
her Eno^Hsh. You could see the masts had
been cut away, by the hacked ends of the
shrouds snaking out into the hollows and
swellings over the side. Her decks were
heavily encumbered with what sailors call
'' raffle" — that is, the muddle of ropes, torn
canvas, staves of boats and casks, fragments
of deck fittings and so forth, with which the
ocean illustrates her violence, and which she
will sometimes for weeks, ay, and for months,
continue to rock and nurse, and hold intact
for very affection of the picture as a symbol
of her wrath when vexed by the gale, and of
her triumphs over those who daringly penetrate
her fortresses to fight her. The confusion
to the eye was so great, and rendered
so lively and bewildering by the hulk's rolling
that, scan her as you would, it was impossible
to master details with any sort of rapidity.

Suddenly Imogene, grasping my wrist in
her excitement, exclaimed, '' See ! there is a

man there — he seems to steady himself by-holding
the wheel — look now, Geoffrey, as
she rolls her decks at us !"

I instantly saw him. The wheel was in
front of the break of the poop, where the
cuddy or round-house windows were ; and
erect at it stood a man, on the starboard side,
one hand down clutching a spoke at his
waist, and his left arm straight out to a spoke
to larboard, which he gripped. Methought
he wrestled with the helm, for he swerved asa
steersman will who struggles to keep a
ship's head steady in a seaway.

"Is he mad?" cried I. *ray, it must be
so ! Famine, thirst, mental anguish, may
have driven him distracted. Yet, even then,
why does not he look towards us ? Why,
were he actually raving, surely his sight
would be courted by our presence."

Pray God he be not mad," whispered
Imogene ; "he is certain to be a sailor and
an Englishman ; and if he be mad, and

brought here, how will these men deal with
him ?"

"Yes ; and I say, too, pray God he be not
mad !" I cried ; 'for back me with a hearty
English sailor and I believe — yes, I believe I
could so match these fellows as to carry the
ship, without their having the power to resist
me, to any port I chose to steer for to the
eastward ;" for with her cry of, '' He is sure
to be a sailor and an Englishman," there
swept into my brain the fancy of securing the
crew under hatches, and imprisoning Wanders
and his mates in their cabins — the
least idle, in sober truth, of all the schemes
that had presented themselves to me.

"Hush!" she exclaimed, breathlessly, and
as she closed her lips to the whisper, 
came to us. But not to speak.
He stood for some minutes looking at the
wreck, with the posture and air of one deeply
considering. The seamen forward gazed
with a heavy steadfastness, too. some under

the sharp of their hands, some with folded
arms. I heard no speech among them. Yet
though their stillness was that of a swoon,
their eyes shone with an eager light, and
expectation shaped their pallid, death-like
faces into a high and straining look.

There were no signs of life aboard the
wreck, saving the figure of the man that
swayed at the wheel. I was amazed that he
should never glance towards us. Indeed, I am
not sure that the whole embodied ghastliness
of our Death Ship matched in terror what
you found in the sight of that lone creature
grasping the wheel, first bringing it a little to
right, then heaving it over a little to left,
fixedly staring ahead, as though such another
Curse as had fallen upon this Dutch ship had
come like a blast of lightning upon him,
compelling him to go on standing at yonder
helm, and vainly striving to steer the wreck
as terribly corpse-like as any man among
us, and as shockingly vital too !

VOL. n. p

It Struck my English love of briskness
as strange that Vanderdecken should not
promptly order the boat over, or give
orders that should have reference to the
abandoned hull ; yet I could not help thinking
that his Holland blood spoke in this
pause, and that there intermingled with
the trance-like condition that was habitual
In him, the phlegmatic Instincts of his
nation — that gradual walking to a decision,
which in Scotland is termed ''takin' a
thocht."

After a while he said to me: "Mynheer,
the wreck hath an English name ; she will
be of your country therefore. May I beg of
you to take my trumpet and hail that person
standing at the wheel ?"

I shall not need your trumpet, sir," said
I, at once climbing upon the rail and thinking
to myself that 'twas odd if there was not
wanted a trumpet with a voice as thunderous
as the crack o' doom to bring that silent,

forward-Staring man's face round to his
shoulder.

'wreck ahoy!" I bawled, with my hand to
my cheek, and the wind took the echo of my
voice clear as a bell to the hulk.

There was not a stir in the helmsman
beyond that dreary monotonous waving of his
figure in his struggle to steady the wheel. I
watched the formless leaning of the wreck
into the hollow, bringing her decks aslant tous,
and the trailing and cork screwing of the
black gear that was washing over the side,
and the sparkling of the broken glass of a
skylight contrasting with the dead black of
an half-dozen of carronades, and the scattering
of the dead-eyes of her channels upon
the blue volume of sea like the ebony heads
of a row of negroes drowning ; and then,
wash ! over she rolled to larboard, bringing
a streak of greenish copper sheathing out of
the white water which the fierce draining
from her side churned up, with a mighty

flashing of sunlight off her streaming side
and a sharp Hating of the dark shrouds and
stays and running ropes out of the seething
welter, making her appear as though scores
of sea-snakes had their fangs in her timbers,
and that 'twas the very agony of their teeth,
and the poison, which caused her to roll from
them.

I shouted again, and yet again ; then dismounted.


He is deaf!" said Vanderdecken.

''He is dead!" said I, for this was forced
upon me, spite of the erect and life-like posture
of the figure, and what resembled the
straining of his arms to steady the wheel.

THE DUTCH SAILORS BOARD THE WRECK.

'' Get the boat over," cried Vanderdecken,
turning to Van \^ogeIaar, "and go and
inspect the wreck. Look to the man first :
Heer Fenton declares him dead ; and particularly
observe if there be aught that hath
life in it aboard."

On this. Van Vogelaar went forward,
calling: about him. In a few minutes a white-faced
seaman, with yellow beard trembling to
the wind, and his eyes looking like a rat's
with the white lashes and pink retinas,
leisurely climbed aloft with a line in his
hand, and swino^ino^ himself on to the main-yard,
sliced out upon the horses to the
extremity, or yard-arm as it is termed, which

he bestrode as a jockey a steed ; and then
hauled up the Hne, to the end of which was
hitched a tackle. This tackle he made fast
to the yard-arm, and by it, with the help of
steadying-ropes or guys, some of the crew
on deck hoisted the little boat out of the
bigger one and lowered it away into the
water alongside.

I watched this business with a sailor's
interest, wondering that so great a ship as
this — great, that is, for the age to which she
belonged — should carry no more than two
boats, stowed one in the other after the
fashion of the north-country boatmen. Nor
was I less impressed by the aged appearance
of the boat when she was afloat. She had
the look of a slug with her horns, only that
those continuations of her gunnel rail projected
abaft as well as from the bows. And
when Van Vogelaar and three of the crew
entered her, then, what with the faded red of
her inner skin, the wide, red blades of the

short oars, the soulless movements of the
seamen, the hue of their faces, the feverish
unnatural shining of their eves like sunshine
showing through a cairngorm stone, their
dried and corded hands, which wrapped the
handles of their oars like rugged parchment —
the little but marvellous picture acted as by
the waving of a magic wand, forcing time
.back by a century and a half and driving
shudders through the frame of a beholder
with a sight whose actuality made it a
hundredfold more startling and fearful than
had it been a vision as unsubstantial as the
Death Ship herself is mistakenly supposed
to be.

The wreck being within hailing distance,
the boat was soon alongside her. The
heavy rolling of the hull, and the sharp
rise and fall of the boat, would have made
any human sailor mightily wary in his boarding
of the vessel, but if ever there was
an mandeville wretch among the Phantom's

horrible crew, Van Vogelaar was he. The
fiend in him stayed at nothing. The instant
the boat had closed the wreck the fellow
leaped, and he was on deck and walking
towards the figure at the wheel, whilst
the others — that is to say, two of them
were waiting for the hull to swing down
for them to follow.

The mate went up to the figure, and
seemed to address him ; then, receiving no
reply, he felt his face, touched his hands,
and pulled to get that amazing grip relaxed,
but to no purpose. The others now joining
him, they all stared into the figure's face ;
one lifting an eyelid and peering into the
eye, another putting his ear to the figure's
mouth. Van Vogelaar then came to the
side, and shouted in his harsh and rusty
voice that it was a dead man. sanders
imperiously waved his hand, and
cried, 'fall to exploring her!" and motioned
significantly to the sky, as if he would have

the mate misgive the weather, though there
was no change in the aspect of the pearly
wreaths and glistening beds of vapour, and
the draught was still a gentle breeze.

Dead !" I whispered to Imogene ; "yet I
feared it !"

"Will he have been English, think you,
Geoffrey ?" she said.

Yes !" cried I, feeling a heat rising to my
cheeks, "name me a foreigner that would
so gloriously have confessed his nation !
English ? — av. a thousand times over ! For
what does that posture indicate, that stern
holding to his place, that dutiful grip of his
iron hands ? What but those qualities which
give the British sailor the dominion of the
deep, and which rank him foremost among
the noblest spirits the world has ever seen ?
He has died at his post — one of thousands
who have as heroically perished."

I noticed \^anderdecken looking at the
body. There was deep thought in his imperious.

menacing expression, with a shadow
of misery that his fierce and glittering eyes
did but appear to coarse and harsher the
gloom of, and I wondered to myself if ever
moments came when perception of his condition
was permitted to him, for it truly
appeared as though there were a hint of some
such thing in him now whilst he gazed at the
convulsive figure at the wheel, as if — Jesus
have mercy upon him ! — the sight of the
dead filled his own deadly flesh with poignant
and enraging yearnings, the meanings of
which his unholy vitality was unable to
interpret.

When Van Vogelaar had spent about half-an-hour
on the wreck, he and the others
dropped over the side into the boat and
made for us. We had scarce shifted our
position, for the courses being hauled up and
the topgallant-sails lowered, there was too
little sail abroad for the weak wind then
blowing to give us drift, and the swell that

drove us towards the wreck would also drive
the wreck from us. The mate came over the
side, and stepping up to the captain, said,
She is an English ship, freighted with
English manufacture ; I make out bales of
blanket, clothing and stores, which I imagine
to have been designed for troops.

What water is in her ?"
'' Seven and a quarter feet by her own
rod."

'' Her pump ?"

She hath two — both shattered and
useless."

"Does she continue to fill?"

I believe not, sir ; I would not swear toit
; she rolls briskly, but," said he, sending
his evil glance at the wreck, 'rit does not
appear that she is sunk deeper since we first
made her out."

'yonder figure at the wheel is dead you

say r

As truly dead a Briton as ever fell to a.

Dutchman's broadside." I exchanged a swift
look with Imogene. "His eyes are glassy ;
his fingers clasp the spokes like hooks of
steel. He must have died on a sudden —
perhaps from lightning — from disease of
some inward organ — or from fear." And
there was the malice of the devil in the sneer
that curled his ugly mouth as he spoke,
taking me in with a roll of his sinister eyes.

I watched him coldly. Remonstrance or
temper would have been as idle with this
man and his mates as pity to that unlocking
heart of oak out there.

What is to be come at ?" demanded
Vanderdecken, with passionate abruptness.

The other answered quickly, holding up
one forefinger after another in a computative
tallying way whilst he spoke, " The half-deck
is free of water, and there I find four, vinegar,
treacle, tierces of beef, some barrels of
pork, and five cases of this — which hath the
smell of tobacco, and is no doubt that plant."

And he pulled out of his pocket a stick of
tobacco, such as Is taken in cases to sea to be
sold to the crews.

Vanderdecken smelt it. " 'Tis undeniably
tobacco," said he, "but how used?" His eye
met mine ; I took the hint, and said : " To
be chewed, it is bitten ; to be smoked, it has
to be flaked with a knife — thus, mynheer."
And I imitated the action of cutting it.

Some of the crew had collected on the
quarter-deck to hear the mate's report, and
seeing the tobacco in the captain's hand and
observing my gestures, one of them cried out
that if it was like the tobacco the Englishman
had shown them how to use 'twas rare smoking
I Whether \'anderdecken had heard of
my visit to the forecastle I do not know : he
seemed not to hear the sailor's exclamation,
saying to me, "Yes, mynheer, I see the convenience
of such tablets ; they hold much and
are easily flaked." /\nd then, sweeping the
sea and skies with his eyes, he cried : " Get

the Other boat over : take a working party in
her and leave them aboard to break out the
cargo. The smaller boat will tow her to and
fro. parents, you will have charge of the
working party — you, Van Vogelaar, will
bring off the goods and superintend the trans
Away, now ! There is stuff
enough there to fill the hollowed cheek with
fat and to sweeten the howl of a gale into
melody. Away, then !"

There was excitement in his words, but
none in his rich and thunderous voice, nor In
his manner ; and though there seemed a sort
of bustle In the way the men went to work
to hoist out the large boat, it was the
very ghost of hurry, as unlike the hearty
leaping of sailors, fired with expectation,
as are the twitching of electrified muscles,
to the motions of hale limbs controlled by
healthy intellect.

Yet, to a mariner, what could surpass the
interest of such a scene ? As I leaned

against the bulwark with Imogene, watching
the Httle boat towing the big one over
the swell, with now a lifting that put the
leaning, toiling figures of the rowers clear
against the delicate, vaporous film over the
sky at the horizon — the red blades of the
oars glistening like rubies as they flashed
out of the water, and the white heads of
the little surges which wrinkled the liquid
folds melting all about the boats into creaming
silver, radiant with salt rainbows and
prismatic glories — and now a sinking that
plunged them out of sight in a hollow, I
said to my dear one, " Here is a sight I
would not have missed for a quintal of the
silver below. I am actually witnessing the
manner in which this doomed vessel feeds
and clothes herself, and how her crew
replenish their stores and provide against
decay and diminution. What man would
credit this thing ? Who would believe that
the Curse which pronounced this ship imperishable

should also hold her upon the
verge of what is natural, sentencing her to a
hideous immortality, and at the same time
compelling the crew to labour as if her and
their life was the same as that of other crews,
in other ships."

'' If they knew their doom they would not
toil," she answered ; "they would seek death
by famine or thirst, or end their horrible lot
by sinking the ship and drowning with her'*

How far away from the dread reality is
the world's imagination of this ship, and the
situation of her people!" cried I. " She has
been pictured as rising out of the waves, assailing
among the clouds, as being perpetually
attended by heavy black storms, and thunderclaps
and blasts of lightning ! Here is the
reality — as sheer a piece of prose at first sight
as any salvage job, but holding in the very
heart of its simplicity so mighty, so complicate,
so unparalleled a wonder, that even
when I speak to you about it, Imogene, and

suffer my mind to dwell upon It, my mind
grows numb with a dread that reason has
quitted her throne and left me fit only for a
madhouse !

'you tremble!" she whispered, softly;
nay, you think too closely of what you are
passing through. Let your knowledge that
this experience is real rob it of Its terror.
Are we not surrounded with wonders which
too much thought will make affrighted ?
That glorious sun ; what feeds his framing
disk ? Why should the moon shine like
crystal when her soil perchance Is like that of
our own world, which also gleams as silver
does though It is mere dust and mould and
unreflecting ashes ? Think of the miracles
we are to ourselves and to one another !"

She pressed my hand and pleaded,
reproved and smiled upon me with her eyes.
Was she some angelic spirit that had lighted
by chance on this Death Ship, and held it
company for very pity of the misery and

VOL. IL Q

hopelessness of the sailor's doom ? But
there was a human passion and tenderness in
her face that would have been weakness in a
glorified spirit. Oh, indeed, she was flesh
and blood as I was, with warm lips for
kissing, and breasts of cream as a pillow for
love, and golden hair too aromatic for
phantasy.

THE DUTCHMEN OBTAIN REFRESHMENTS.

Above an hour passed before the big boat,
deeply laden, was towed by the little one
from the wreck. Of what a proportion of
her freight was composed I could not tell,
much of it being in parcels and casks. They
had made sure of the tobacco by bringing
away, at once, all that they could find. I
observed a number of hams stitched up in
canvas, and some sacks of potatoes, two bags
of which were lost by the bottoms bursting
whilst they were being hoisted, on which Van
\'oeelaar broke into several terrible oaths in
Dutch, though 'twas like a dramatic rehearsal
of a ranting and bullying scene, for meanders
took no notice and the men went

on hoisting and lowering away in the old
phlegmatic mechanic fashion as though they
were deaf. There were likewise other kinds
of provisions of which I need not tease you
with the particulars. I believe that all the
loading of the boat — in this her first trip, I
mean — consisted of articles of food; for some
of the parcels which puzzled me proved to
contain cheeses and the others might therefore
as well represent stores of a like kind.

"Is it their custom to bring away the
provisions first," I asked Imogene.

"As a rule," she answered, "they take
whatever comes to hand, that is, if the
articles be such as may be of use. What
they chiefly secure as soon as possible is
tobacco and spirits ; then provisions and
clothing ; and then any treasure they may
come across, and afterwards any portion of
the cargo they may fancy that is light to
handle, such as silks, pottery, and so forth'*

But they cannot take very much," said I,

*'or a few meetings of this kind would sink
their ship for them with overloading."

'' There are many of us," she replied, " and
the provisions they bring away do not last
very long. The pottery they use and it is
soon broken. Silk and such materials as
they bring are light ; and then, my dear,
they do not meet wrecks every day, nor of
the wrecks they meet may you count one in
five that yields enough to sink this ship by a
foot."

''I am heartily sorry," said I, 'that they
should find so much to eat aboard yonder
hulk. With so goodly a store of provisions,
Vanderdecken will not require to run into the
land to shoot ; and until this ship brings up
I see no chance for ourselves."

She sighed and looked sadly into the
water, insomuch that she suggested an
emotion of hopelessness ; but in an instant
she flashed out of her expression of melancholy
weariness into a smile and gave me

the deep perfections of her violet eyes to
look into, as if she knew their power over
me and shaped their shining influence for
my comfort and courage.

When the boat was discharged of her
freight, the men's dinner was passed over
the side for the fellows to eat in snatches,
working the while to save time. The wind
remained weak and quiet, but it was inevitable
that the hamper we showed aloft should give
us a drift beyond the send of the swell ; and
to remedy this Vanderdecken clewed up his
topsails and took in all his canvas, leaving his
ship to tumble under bare poles, and by this
means he rendered the drift of the vessel
down upon the wreck extremely sluggish
and scarcely perceptible.

All day long the big boat was towed to
and fro, making many journeys and regularly
putting off from the wreck very deep with
freight. Vanderdecken ate his dinner on
deck. You would have found it hard to

reconcile any theory of common human
passions such as cupidity, rapacity and the
Hke, with his bloodless face and grave-yard
aspect ; and yet it was impossible to mistake
the stirring of the true Dutch instincts of the
patient but resolved greed in the air he
carried whilst he waited for the return of
the boat, in his frequent levelling of the
telescope at the wreck as one who doubted
his people and kept a sharp eye on them, in
the eagerness his posture indicated as he
hung over the rail watching the stuff as it
was handed up or swayed by yard-arm
tackles over the side, and the fierce peremptoriness
of the questions he put to Van Vogel
as to what he had there, how much more
remained, and so on, though nothing that the
mate answered, satisfactory as must have
been the account he gave, softened the captain's
habitual savageness or in any degree
humanised him. Of the majesty of his
deportment I have spoken ; likewise of the

thrilling richness of his voice, the piercing
fire of his fine eyes and of his mien and
bearing, so haughtily stately in all respects as
to make one think of him, after a Pagan
fashion, as of some god fallen from his high
estate ; but for all that he was a Dutchman
at heart, dead-alive as he was ; as true to his
Holland extraction in 1796 as he had been
an hundred and fifty years earlier, when he
was trading to Batavia and nimbly getting
money, and saving it, too, with as sure a hand
as was ever swunof in amsterdam.

The threads and lines and beds of vapour
extending all over the sky served to reverberate
the glory of the sunset, as the crags
and peaks of mountains fling onwards the
echoes of the thunder-clap. In the east it
was all jasper and sapphire, reds and greensand
a lovely clear blue slowly burning to a
carnelian in the zenith, where the effulgence
lay in a pool of deep red with a haze of light
like fine rain floating down upon it half white,

half of silver ; then followed a jaclnthine hue,
a lustrous red most daintily delicate, with
streaks of clear green like the beryl, till the
eye came to the west, where the sun, vastly
enlarged by refraction, hung in enormous
bulk of golden fiery magnificence amid ascertained
pavilions of living splendour, where
'twas like looking at some newly wrought fairy
world robed in the shining of the Heaven of
Christ to see the lakes and lagoons of amber
purple and yellow, the seas of molten gold,
the starry flemings in the chrysolite brows of
vapour, and the sky fading out north and
south in lights and tints as fair as the reflections
in the wet pearly interior of a sea-shell
gaping on a beach towards the setting sun.
The small swell traversing the great red
light that was upon the sea put lines of flowing
glory under the tapestries of that sunset,
and the appearance was that of an eager
shouldering of the effulgence into the grey
of the south quarter, as though old Neptune

sought to honourably distribute the glory all
around, and render the western seaboard
ambient.

Then it was, while the lower limb of the
luminary yet sipped from the horizon the gold
of his own showering, that the picture of the
wreck, and the Death Ship heaving pale and
stripped of her canvas, became the wonder
that my memory must for ever find it. How
steadfastly the dead seaman at the wheel kept
watch ! The quieted sea now scarce stirred
the rudder, and the occasional light movements
of the figure seemed like starts in him,
motions of surprise at the Dutchmen's ant-like
pertinaciously in their stripping of the
hull.

And they? In that mani-coloured western
blaze they partook more of the character of
corpses, in those faces of theirs, which stared
our way or glimmered for a breath or two-over
the bulwarks, than ever I had found
visible in them by moonlight or lamplight

6:)

or the chilling dimness of a stormy dawn.
The sun vanished and the pale grey of evening
stole like a curtain drawn by spirit-hands
out of the eastern sea and over the waning
glories of the skies, with a star or two glittering
in its skirts ; and the wind from the north
blew with a sudden weight and a long moaning,
making the sea whence it came ashen
with gushing of foam which ran into a colour
of thin blood on passing the confines of the
western reflection. Vanderdecken, seizing
his trumpet, sent a loud command through
it to the wreck ; but the twilight was a mere
windy glimmering under the stars, which
shone very brightly among the high small
clouds by the time the boats had shoved clear
of the hull and were heading for us, and the
night had come down dark, spite of the stars
and the silver paring of moon, ere the last
fragment of the freight of rope, sail, and raffle
from the wreck had been passed over the side
from the big boat.

It grew Into a wild scene then : the Hght
of the lantern-candles dimly throwing out the
bleached faces and dark figures of the seamen
as they hoisted the boats and stowed them one
Inside the other, the ship rolling on the swell
that had again risen very suddenly as though
some mighty hand were striving to press it
down and so forcing the fluid surface into
larger volumes, the heads of the seas frothing
spectrally as they coursed arching and splashing
out of the further darkness, the mastering
slip of moon sliding like a sheering scythe
among the networks of the shrouds and gear,
and nothing to be heard but the angry sobbing
of waters beating themselves into hissing foam
against the ship's side, and the multitudinous
crying, as of a distant but piercing crossing
of many women and boys, of the freshening
wind flying damp through the rigging.

It had been a busy day, It was still a busy
time ; but never throughout the hours, if I
save the occasional curslnof of the mate, the

captain's few questions, his command trumpeted
to the wreck, my talk with Imogene,
had human voice been heard. It was not so
noticeable a thing, this silence of the ghostly
crew, in the broad blaze of sunshine and amid
an exhibition of labour that was like sound to
the eye, as now, in the darkness, with the
wind freshening, sail to be made and much
to be done — much of the kind that forces
merchant seamen into singing out and bawling
as they drag and pull and jump aloft.
The wreck was a mere lump of blackness
tumbling out to windward upon the dusky
frothing welter, and I thought of the dead
sentinel at the helm. What in the name of
the saints was there in that figure to put into
the sea the enormous solitude I found in the
vast surface glimmering to where it melted
in shadow against the low stars ? What was
there in that poor corpse to fling a bleakness
into the night wind, to draw an echo as
chilling as a madman's cry out of the gusty

moaning aloft, to sadden the very star-beams
into dull and spectral twinkling ? The canvas
shook as the silent sailors sheeted it home
and voicelessly masthead the yards. At
three bells in the first watch the Death Ship
had been wore to bring her starboard tacks
aboard, and under all the canvas she had she
was leaning before a small gale with her head
to the southward and westward, her sides and
decks alive with the twisting of the mystic
fires which darkness kindled in her ancient
timbers, and her round weather-bow driving
the rude black surge back into boiling whiteness.


MY LIFE IS ATTEMPTED.

Heading out to sea afresh ! Once again
pointing the ship's beak for the solitude of
the ocean, and starting as it might be on a
new struggle that was to end in storm and
defeat, in the heavy belabouring of the
groaning structure by giant surges, and ina
sickening helpless drift of God alone knew
how many leagues, ere the sky brightened
into blueness once more !

Never had I so strongly felt the horror
and misery of the fate which Vanderdecken's
hellish impiety had brought down upon his
ship and her company of mariners as now,
when I saw the yards braced up on the starboard
tack, and the vessel laid with her head

to the south and west. The fresh wind seemed
to shriek the word '' Forever !" in her rigging,
and the echo was drowned in the wild sobbing
sounds that rose out of each long, yearning
wash of the sea along her dimly shining
bends.

How was I to escape? How deliver Imogene
?

I was a sailor, and whilst the ocean found
me business, whilst it defined the periods of
its detentions of me, I loved it ! The freedom
of it was dear to my heart ; it was my home ;
it was a glass in which was mirrored the image
of the Creator I worshipped. But the prospect
of continuously sailing upon it in the
Death Ship, of fighting its subtle winds and
furious storms to no purpose, converted it
into a melancholy waste — a liquid plain of
desolation — a mere Hell of waters upon
whose sandy floor Hope, with tempest-torn
wings, would speedily lie drowned, whilst its
surface should grow maddening with the

reflected icy sparkling of that Starry Crux,
which shone but as a symbol of despair when
the eye sought it from these accursed decks
and beheld the quick light of its jewels trembling
over the yard-arms of the Death Ship.
Shortly after midnight the wind freshened,
and it came on to blow with some weight. I
had been in my cabin an hour, lying there
broad awake, being rendered extraordinarily
uneasy by my thoughts. The sea had grown
hollow, and the ship plunged quickly and
sharply with a heavy thunderous noise of
spurned and foaming waters all about her. It
was sheer misery lying intensely wakeful in
that desolate cabin, that would have been as
pitchy black as any ancient castle dungeon
but for the glimmering lights, which were so
much more terrible than the profoundest shade
of blackness could be, that had there been any
hole in the ship where the phosphor did not
glow, I would cheerfully have carried my
bed to it, ay, even if it had been in the

VOL. II. R

bottom of the fore-peak or in the thickest
of the midnight of the hold. The rats
squeaked, the bulkheads and ceilings seemed
alive with crawling glow-worms, groans as
of dying, cries as of wounded men sounded
out of the interior in which lay stowed the
pepper, mace, spices and other Indian commodities
of a freight that was hard upon an
hundred and fifty years old !

I suspected from the motions of the ship
and the hollow, muffled roaring outside, that
a gale of wind was brewing, and I resolved
to go on deck and take a look at the
weather since I could not sleep, for if the
wind was north west it would give us such a
further drift to the eastwards as would set
the African coast at a fearful distance for our
round-bowed sea-wagon to come at. On
the other hand, the gale might have veered
to a quarter favourable to heading for Cape
Agulhas. Should this happen, how would
the Curse operate ? Would the ship be permitted

to near the Cape before being blown
back ? But I suspected the operation of no
fixed laws in this doom. To suffer the Death
Ship to draw close, to fill the minds of
the crew with triumphant assurance of their
weathering the Cape of Storms, would be a
mere hideous tantalising of them that could
surely form no part of the sentence which
obliterated from their minds the recollection
of past failures. For, let the readers of my
narrative bear this steadfastly in view : that
if Vanderdecken and his men knew of a
surety that they were never to pass the
cape into the South Atlantic Ocean, then, as
beings capable of thinking and acting, they
would long ago have desisted from the attempt
and sought rest — if they could ] not
procure death for themselves — haply in that
same island of Java from which they had
sailed.

I crawled into my clothes by feeling for
them, and groped my way on to the poop.

The sky was black with low-flying cloud,
from the speeding rims of which a star would
now and again glance, like the flash of a
filibuster's fusil from the dark shrubbery of
a mountain slope. But there was so much
roaring spume and froth all about the ship,
that a dim radiance as of twilight hung in
the air, and I could see to as high as the
topmast heads.

I stepped at once to the binnacle without
noticing who had the watch and found the
ship's head south-east by south. I could
not suppose the ancient magnet showed the
quarters accurately, but, allowing for a
westerly variation of thirty degrees, the
indication came near enough to satisfy me
that the wind was as it had been ever since
the night I first entered this ship — right in
our teeth for the passage of the Cape, and
that though we might be sluggishly washing
through it close-hauled, we were also driving
away broadside on, making a clean beam

course for the heart of the mighty Southern
Ocean.

This vexed and harassed me to the soul,
and occasioned In me so Hvely a sympathy
with the rage that adverse gales had kindled
in Vanderdecken, that had he contented himself
with merely damning the weather Instead
of flying In the face of the Most High and
behaving like some foul fiend, I should have
deeply pitied him and considered his case the
hardest ever heard of. The main-yard was
lowered and a row of men were silently knotting
the reef-points. The topgallant-sails had
been handed, reefs tied In the topsails, and
the vessel looked prepared for foul weather.

But though the wind blew smartly, with
weight in Its gusts and plenty of piping and
screaming and whistling of it aloft, there was
no marked sternness of aspect in the heavens,
sombre and sullen as was the shadow that
ringed the sea-line, and fiercely as flew the
black clouds out of It in the north west ; and

with this appearance I essayed to console
myself as I stood near the mizzen shrouds
gazing about me.

Seeing a figure standing near the larboard-shrouds,
I stepped over and found it to be
Van Vogelaar. My direct approach made
some sort of accost a formal necessity, but I
little loved to speak with this man, whom I
considered as wicked a rascal as ever went to
sea.

These nor' - western are evil winds,
mynheer," said I, "and in this sea they
appear to have the vitality of easterly gales
in England. What is the weather to belike
? For my part, I think we shall find a
quieter atmosphere before dawn."

He was some time in answering, feigning
to watch the men reefing the mainsail, though
by the light of the white water I could catch
the gleam of his eyes fixed upon me askant.

What brings you on deck at this hour ?"
said he, in his rasping, surly voice.

i

I answered, quietly, that feeling wakeful
and hearing the wind, I rose to view the
weather for myself.

A sailor is supposed to rest the better for
the rocking of seas and the crying of wind,"
said he, with a mocking, contemptuous tone
in his accents. " That saying is intended no
doubt for the Dutch seamen ; the English
mariner nobly shines as a sailor in his own
records, but you will admit, sir, that he is
never so happy as when he is ashore."

"Sir," I replied, suppressing my rising
temper with a very heavy effort, " I fear you
must have suffered somewhat at the hands of
the English sailor that you should never
let slip a chance to discharge your venom
at him. I am English, and a sailor, too,
and I should be pleased to witness some
better illustrations of Dutch courage than
the insults you offer to a man who stands
defenceless among you, and must be beholden,
therefore, wholly to your courtesy."

He said, in a sneering, scornful voice,
*your courtesy! A member of a dastardly-crew
that would have assassinated me and my
men with their small arms, hath a great
claim upon our courtesy !"

I was aft, and ignorant of the intentions
of the men when that thing was done," said
I, resolved not to be betrayed into heat, let
the struggle to keep calm cost what it would.

To this he made no reply, then after a
pause, said in a mumbling voice as if he
would, and yet would not have me hear him,
'' I brought a curse into the ship when I
handed you over the side ; the devil craved
for ye, and I should have let you sink into
his maws. By the holy sepulchre, there are
many in Amsterdam who would have me
keel-hauled did they know this hand had
saved the life of an Englishman !" And he
tossed up his right hand with a vehement
gesture of rage.

I was a stoutly-built fellow, full of living

and healthy muscle, and I do solemnly affirm
that it would not have cost me one instant of
quicker breathing to have tossed this brutal
and insulting anatomy over the rail. But it
was not only that I feared any exhibition of
temper in me might end in my murder ; I
felt that in the person of this ugly and
malignant mate I should be dealing with a
sentence that forbade his destruction, that
must preserve him from injury, and that rendered
him as superior to human vengeance
as if his body had been lifeless. And what
were his insults but a kind of posthumous
scorn, as idle and contemptible as that inscription
upon a dead Dutchman's grave in
Rotterdam, in which the poor Holland corpse
after eighty years of decay goes on telling
the world that in his opinion Britons are poor
creatures ?

I held my peace, and Van Vogelaar went
to the break of the poop, whence he could
better see what the men were doing upon the

main-yard. The enmity of this man made
me feel very unhappy. I was never sure
what mischief he meditated, and the sense of
my helplessness, the idleness of any resolution
I might form in the face of the supernatural
life that encompassed me, made the
flying midnight seem inexpressibly dreary
and dismal, and the white foam of the sea
carrying the eye to the ebony cloud-girdle
that belted the horizon, suggested distances
so prodigious that the heart sank to the sight
of them, as to thoughts of eternity.

I was running my gaze slowly over the
weather sea-board, whence came the endless-procession
of ridged billows like incalculable
hosts of black-mailed warriors, with white
plumes flying and steam from the nostrils of
their steeds boiling and pouring before them,
and phosphoric lights upon them like the
shining points of couched spears, when
methought a dim pallid shadow, standing just
under a star that was floating a moment

betwixt two flying shores of cloud, was a
ship ; and the better to see, I sprang on to
the rail about abreast of the helmsman, for
my support catching hold of some stout rope
that ran transversely aft out of the darkness
amidships. What gear it was I never
stopped to consider, but gripping it with my
left hand swayed to it erect upon the rail,
whilst with my right I sheltered my eyes
against the smarting rain of spray, and stared
at what I guessed to be a sail. I have said
that the creaming and foaming of the waters
flung from the vessel's sides and bows made
a light in the air, and the sphere of my sight
included a space of the poop-deck to right
and left of me, albeit my gaze was fastened
upon the distant shadow.

All on a sudden the end of the rope I
grasped was thrown off the pin to which it
was belayed and I fell overboard. 'Twas
instantaneous ! And so marvellously swift is
thought that I recollect even during that

lightning-like plunge thinking how icy-cold
the sea would be, and how deep my dive
from the great height of the poop-rail. But
instead of striking the water, the weight of
me swung my body into the mizzen-channels
by the rope my left hand desperately gripped.
I fell almost softly against a shroud coming
down to a great dead-eye there and dropped
in a sitting posture in the channel itself which
to be sure was a wide platform to windward
and therefore lifted very clear of the sea,
spite of the ship's weather rolls. My heart
beat quickly, but I was safe : yet a moment
after I had liked to have perished, indeed, for
the rope I mechanically grasped was all at
once torn from my fingers with so savage a
drag from some hand on deck that nothing
but the pitting of my knee against a dead-eye
preserved me from being tweaked Into the
hissing caldron beneath. I could see the
rope plain enough as It was hastened, through
the pallid atmosphere and against the winking

of the stars sliding from one wing of vapour
to another, and perceived that it was the
main-brace, the lowering of the yard or
reefing the sail having brought it within reach
of my arm. Then, with this, there grew in
me a consciousness of my having noticed a
figure glide by me whilst I stood on the rail ;
and, putting these things together, I guessed
that Van Vogelaar, having observed my
posture, had sneaked aft to where the mainbrace
— that was formed of a pendant and
whip — was made fast and had let go of it,
never doubting that, as I leaned against it,
so, by his whipping the end off the pin it
would let me fall overboard !

I was terribly enraged by this cowardly
attempt upon my life and was for climbing
inboard at once and man handling him, ghost
or no ghost ; then changed my mind and
stayed a bit in the channel considering what
I should do. Thin veins of fire crawled upon
this aged platform as upon all other parts of

the ship ; but the shrouds coming very thick
with leather chafing-gear to the dead-eyes
made such a jumble of black shapes, that I
was very sure Van Vogelaar could not see me
If he should take It Into his head to peer down
over the rail.

After casting about In my mind, the determination
I arrived at was to treat my tumble
from the rail as an accident, for I very
honestly believed this : that if I should
complain to Vanderdecken of his mate's
murderous intention, I would not only harden
the deadly malignity of that ghastly ruffian's
hatred of me, Insomuch, that It might come
to his stabbing me in my sleep, but it might
end In putting such fancies into the captain's
head as should make him desire my destruction,
and arrange with his horrid lieutenant
to procure It. Indeed, I had only to think of
Amboyna and the brutal character of the
Dutch of those times, and remember that
Vanderdecken and his men belonged to that

age, and would therefore have the savagery
which one hundred and fifty years of civilization,
arts, and letters have somewhat abated
in the Hollanders, to determine me to move
with very great wariness in this matter.

But I had been dreadfully near to death,
and could not speedily recollect myself. The
white heads of the surges leaped, boiled and
snapped under the channels, like wolves
thirsting for my blood ; and the crying of the
wind among the shrouds, in whose shadows
I sat, and the sounds it made as it coursed
through the dark night and split shrilly upon
the ropes and spars high up in the dusk,
ran echoes into those raving waters below,
which made them as much wild beasts to the
ear as they looked to the eye.

But little good could come of my sitting
and brooding in that mizzen-channel ; so,
being in no mood to meet the villain. Van
Vogelaar, I very cautiously rose, and with
the practised hand of a sailor crawled along

the lap of the covering-board, holding by the
rail but keeping my head out of sight, and
reached the main-chains, whence I dropped
on to the deck unseen among the tangled
thickness of the shrouds, and sliced, as stilly
as the costliest man among that ghastly
crew could tread, to my cabin.

MY sweetheart's JOY.

Once asleep I slept heavily, and it was
twenty minutes past the breakfast hour by
the time 1 was ready to leave the crazy and
groaning dungeon that served me for a
bedroom.

I entered the cabin, but had scarcely made
two steps when there sounded a loud cry ina
girl's voice, half of terror, half of joy ; a
shriek so startling for the passions it expressed
that it brought me to a dead stands
It was Imogene. I saw her jump from her
seat, make a gesture with her arms as though
she would fly to me, then bring both hands
violently to her heart with a loud hysterical
ha ! ha ! as if she could only find breath in

VOL. II. s

some such unnatural note of laughter, whilst
she stood staring at me with straining eyes
that filled her violet beauty with a light like
that of madness.

The clock struck the half-hour as she
cried, and the echo of her voice and the deep,
humming vibration of the bell were followed
by the parrot's diabolical croak :

**11CIB 3211 nl DerDomD!"

'god in Heaven!" exclaimed Wanders
in a tone deep with amazement, "I
thought that man was drowned !"

It was a picture of consternation that I
should not have dreamt to expect in men
who had outlived life and in whom you
would think of seeking qualities and emotions
outside those which were necessary to the
execution of their sentence. Vanderdecken,
leaning forward at the head of the table upon
his great hands, the fingers of which were
stretched out, glared at me with a frown of
astonishment. Prins — whose attendance

Upon me in my cabin had long been limited
to his placing a bucket of salt-water at my
door without entering — Prins, I say, arrested
by my entry whilst in the act of filling a cup
of wine for the captain, watched me with a
yawn of wonder, and stood motionless as
though blasted by a stroke of lightning ;
whilst Van Vogelaar, with his head upon his
shoulder, the blade of the knife with which
he had been eating forking straight up out of
his fist that lay like a paralysed thing upon
the table, eyed me with a sunk chin and
under a double fold of brow ; his level, enchained
stare full of fear, and cruelty and
passion.

I saw how It was, and giving the captain a
bow and my darling a smile, I went to my
place at the table and sat down. Van
Vogelaar shrunk as I passed him, keeping
his eyes upon me as a cat follows the motions
of a dog ; and when I seated myself he fell
away by the length of his arm, dropping his

knife and fork and watching me. Diogenes
breathing deeply, resumed her seat ; nothing
but Vanderdecken's amazement hindered him
from observing her agitation, which was of a
nature he could not possibly have mistaken,
if indeed he still possessed the capacity of
distinguishing such emotions as love.

She merely said, letting out her words in a
tremulous sigh : '' O Geoffrey, thank God !
thank God !" The food in front of her was
untasted ; but what grief there had been in
her face before was lost in the confusion of
feelings which worked in her loveliness with
a vitality that made her red and white in the
same moment. She repeated under her
breath to herself: 'thank God! thank God!"

This, while the others stared.

I turned to Van Vogelaar. " Mynheer,"
said I, "you regard me with astonishment."


He shrank a little further yet, and, after a
pause, said, " Are you man or devil ?"

J

'captain Vanderdecken," said I, 'has your
mate lost his reason ?"

On this Van Vogelaar cried out : "Captain,
by the Holy Trinity, I swear it was as I have
reported. This Englishman, after prowling
on deck last night in the early hours of the
middle watch, suddenly clambered on to the
rail, for what purpose I know not, and leaned
his weight against the starboard main-brace,
the sail then reefing. I looked round — on
turning again he was gone ! and Nicholas
Houltshausen, who was at the helm, swore
he saw him rise black upon the white eddies
of the wake."

Vanderdecken frowningly questioned me
with his eyes. I should have been acting a
sillier part than a fool's to have jested with
these men, besides, I had long since resolved
to be plain.

Herr Van Vogelaar," said I, "doubtless
refers to my having fallen into the weather
mizzen-channel last night from the rail, whilst

peering at what I believed to be a ship. The
main-brace, upon which I had put my hand
to steady myself, yielded very suddenly," and
here I shot a look at the mate, 'but I fell
lightly, and after sitting a little to recover my
breath, made my way to my cabin."

Van Vogelaar's death-like face darkened.
An oath or two rattled in his throat, and returning
to his old posture he fell to the meat
upon his plate with the ferocity of some
starving beast, insomuch that the veins about
his forehead stood out like pieces of cord.

The feelings with which Vanderdecken
received my explanation I could not gather.
He gazed hard at me with fiery eyes, as
though, mistrusting me, he sought to burn
his sight down to my heart, and then, slowly
resuming his knife and fork, went on with his
breakfast in his familiar trance-like way, mute
as a dead man.

I constantly exchanged glances with I mo-gene,
but held my peace since she remained

silent. She struggled to compose her face,
but her joy at my presence shone through her
mask of reserve, twitching the corners of her
mouth into faint smiles, and dancing in her
eyes like sunshine on the ripples of a sapphire
pool. Her love for me spoke more in this
quiet delight than she could have found room
for in a thousand words. How sweet and
fair she looked ! The light of her heart lay
with a fair rosiness upon her cheeks, which
had been as pale as marble when she had
risen with her shriek and laughter to my first
coming.

Presently Van Vogelaar left the cabin,
going out scowling and talking to himself,
but not offering so much as to glance at me.
There was a piece of hung meat on the
table, of what animal I did not know ; it
proved indifferent good eating. This and
some cakes made of flour, with a goblet of
sherry and water, formed my breakfast. I
ate slowly, knowing that Vanderdecken would

not smoke whilst I breakfasted, and wishing
tire him away that Imogene and I might
have the cabin to ourselves. But my stratagem
was to no purpose. He started suddenly
from his waking dream — if, indeed, it was
to be credited that any sort of intellectual
faculty stirred in him when he lapsed into
these cataleptic stillness — and bade Prins
go and get cut up some of the tobacco they
had removed from the wreck, and then erecting
his figure and stroking down his beard,
he looked from me to Imogene and back tome
again, and said, "The weather promises
to mend ; but this wind must come from a
witch's mouth — and a witch of deep and
steady lungs. I hope you may not have
brought us ill-luck, sir ?"

I hope not," said I, shortly.

"There are malign stars in the heavens,"
he continued, in a voice that trembled richly
upon the air, like the waving echoes of
some deep-throated melodious bell, "and there

are men born under them. North of the
Baltic, on ]muscovite territory, is a nation of
wretches who can bewitch the winds and
sail their ships through contrary gales. They
are not far removed from Britain," said he,
significantly.

They are as close to Holland, mynheer,"
said I.

"Oh, captain!" cried Imogene, 'you do
not wish to say that Mr. Fenton has had a
hand in the fixing of this wind ?"

He leaned his forehead upon his elbow,
and stretching forth his other hand, drummed
lightly on the table with his long, lean,
leprous-coloured fingers as he spoke. " Why,
Mynheer Fenton, ■\Iiss Dudley must allow
that a curious luck attends you. How many
of a crew went to your ship ?"

'' Forty, sir."

Mark your star ! Of forty men you alone
fall Overboard ! But fortune goes with you
and you are rescued by Van Vogelaar.

Observe again ! Of forty men you alone are
delivered into a ship whose nation is at war
with yours ! Yet fortune still attends you and
you are hospitably received, yea, even made
welcome, and clothed, and fed and housed."

I bowed.

'' More yet ! Last night you fell from the
bulwark-rail. What sorcery is it that sways
you into the mizzen-channel and presently,
unseen, to your bed ? Nicholas Houltshau-
sen is noted among us for his shrewd sight.
Did not he swear he saw you rise black after
your plunge among the froth of the ship's
wake ? What was it that he beheld ? Can
the soul shed its body as the butterfly its skin
and yet appear clothed, substantial, real as.
flesh and blood ?"

I exactly explained that accident," said I.
"If there be sorcery in my having the luck
to tumble into a ship's mizzen-chains instead
of the water, then am I a witch fit for a
broomstick and a grinning moon !"

Captain Vanderdecken does but amuse
himself with you, Mr. Fenton," said Imogene.
" It is true, mynheer," she continued,
putting on an inimitable air of sweet dignity,
which was vastly reassuring to me as proving
that she had recovered her old easiness of
mind and was now playing a part, " that
we believed you had fallen overboard last
night, and this being our conclusion you may
judge how greatly your entrance just now
amazed us. For me, I was so frightened that
I shrieked out, as you doubtless heard.
Truly I thought you, the dead, arisen.
Captain Vanderdecken cannot recover his
surprise, and would have himself to believe
that you are a sorcerer. You, who are so
young, and an English sailor !" She laughed
out, and a truer ring she could not have put
into her forced merriment had she been a
Pritchard, or a Clive, or a Cibber. '' Indeed,"
she added, ''to be a necromancer, you need
a beard as long and as grey as the captain's "

There was no temper in the look Wander
decked cast upon her, nay, it almost deserved
the name of mildness in him whose eyes were
forever fiery with hot thought and passions
of undefinable character. But not the phantom
of a smile showed in his face in response
to her laughter.

'madam," said I, putting on a distant air
in conformity with the hint of her own
manner, *' I am no sorcerer. For your sake
I would I were, for then my first business
would be to veer this wind south, and keep it
there till it had thundered our ship with
foaming stem into the smooth waters of the
Sunder-Zee."

This seemed to weigh with Vanderdecken.
He reflected a little and then said, with
something of lofty urbanity in his mode
of addressing me, " Had you that power,
mynheer, I do not know that I should
object to your presence were you Beelzebub
himself"

Imogene's smile betrayed the delight she
felt in her gradual, happy, nimble drawing of
this fierce man's thoughts away from his
astonishing suspicions of me as a wizard.

Have you ever heard, Mr. Fenton," said
she, ''of that nation to the north of the Baltic
of whom Captain Vanderdecken has spoken ?"

''Oh! yes, madam," I replied; "they are well
known as Russian Finns, and are undoubtedly
wizards, and will sell such winds to ships as
captains require. I knew a master of a vessel
who, being off the coast of Finland, grew impatient
for a wind to carry him to a certain
distant port. He applied to an old wizard,
who said he would sell him a gale that
should enable him to fetch the Promontory of
Rouxella, but no further, for his breeze ceased
to obey him. when that point was reached.
The captain agreed, holding that a wind to
Rouxella was better than light airs and
baffling calms off the Finland coast, and paid
the wizard ten kronen — about six and thirty

shillings of English money — and a pound of
tobacco ; on which the conjurer tied a woollen
rag to the fore-mast, the rag being about half
a yard long and a nail broad. It had three
knots, and the wizard told him to loose the
first knot when he got his anchor, which he
did, and forthwith it blew a fresh favourable
gale."

"That is so?" demanded Vanderdecken,
doubtingly, and folding his arms over his
beard.

'' I knew the captain, mynheer," I
answered ; " his name was Jenkins, and
his ship was a brig called the True Love."

'' Did the first knot give him all the wind
he wanted ?" asked he.

No, sir. It gave them a brisk west southwest
gale that carried them thirty leagues
beyond the maelstrom in the Norwegian
sea ; then shifted, on which Captain Jenkins
untied the second knot, which brought the
wind back to its own quarter. It failed them

again, but when the third knot was untied
there arose so furious a tempest that all hands
went to prayers, begging for mercy for
choosing to deal with an infernal artist instead
of trusting to Providence."

It was not easy to make out the thoughts
in Vanderdecken's mind, not less because of
the half of his countenance being densely
clothed with hair, than because of the white,
iron rigidity of as much of his face as was
visible ; yet I could not doubt that he believed
in those Finnish wizards from a sudden
yearning in his manner, followed by a flashing
glance of impatience at the cabin entrance,
that was for all the world as though he had
cried out " Would to God there was a purchasable
wind hereabouts !" But the reader
must consider that this man belonged to an
age when wise men soberly credited greater
wonders than Icelandic and Finnish wind-brokers.


By this I had made an end of breakfast,

and Prins arriving with a jar full of the
tobacco, flaked and fit for smoking, the
captain filled his pipe, first pushing the jar
to me, and then fell into one of his silences,
from which he would emerge at wide intervals
to say something that was as good asa
warrant he was thinking no longer of the
sorcery of my fall and appearance. When he
had emptied his bowl, he went to his cabin.
Imogene instantly arose and came to my
side.

*' Oh, my dearest !" she whispered, with a
sudden darkening of her eyes by the shadow
of tears, '' I did believe, indeed, you were
lost to me for ever ! My senses seemed to
leave me when Vanderdecken accounted for
your absence."

Dear heart ! My precious one !" I
answered, fondling her little hand, which
lay cold with her emotion in mine ; " I am
still with thee, and hope with us may remain
fearless. But it was a narrow escape. Van

i

Vogelaar came red-handed to this table. For
hours he has had my blood upon his devilish
soul. No wonder the villain quailed when I
entered this cabin."

"What did he do?" she cried.

I believed I saw a ship," I answered ;
I jumped on to the rail to make sure, and
leaned against the brace that governs the
main-yard. He slipped aft and let go the
rope, meaning that I should fall overboard,
but my grip was a sailor's, and I swung with
the rope into the mizzen-chains."

The wretch ! He told Vanderdecken that
you had climbed on to the bulwarks and
fallen. I could kill him !'' She clenched her
white fingers till the jewels on them flashed
to the trembling of the tension, and a delicate
crimson surged into her face. " I could kill
him !" she repeated.

Hush, sweet one! It is our business to
escape, and we need an exquisite judgment.
I, too, could kill the treacherous ruffian, only

VOL. II. T

that he is deathless. You, brave heart, will
advise me that we are not to know of this
thing. No, let it be an accident of my own
doing. We are in a skilful of devils, and
must act as if we believed them angels."

Her face slowly paled, her fingers opened,
and the angry shining faded out of her eyes
leaving the soft, violet pensive light there.

'' Yes, you are right ; we must not know
the truth of this thing," said she, musingly,
after a little. '' But be on your guard,
Geoffrey ; keep well away from that rogue.
His Spanish treachery is made formidable by
his Dutch cunning. How swiftly he acted
last night! His thoughts must have been
intent for some time or even the demon in
him would not have been equal to such
readiness. See to your cabin door at night
O Geoffrey, he might steal in upon
you."

I smiled. " He has spoken once ; I shall
not require a second hint,"

** O that I had a man's arm, Geoffrey, that
I might be your sentinel whilst you slept !"

'' Precious one ! You shall sentinel me yet !
Patience, meanwhile! It is this ship that
makes home so distant. Once clear of this
groaning vault and we shall be smelling the
sweetbread and the violet."

Vanderdecken came out of his cabin and
went on deck. He walked with impetuosity
and passed without regarding us. Through
the open door leading to the quarter-deck I
saw him stand a minute with his face upturned
and then toss his hand with a gesture
of baffled rage.

He is cursing the wind," said Imogene.
'' How often has he done so since I have
been in this ship ! And when will a last day
come to him, when there shall be no wind to
curse, when death shall have paralysed his
tongue and silenced his heart ? How fiercely
it now throbs ! Surely there is more stormy
passion in one day of its beating than in

twenty years of a human pulse ! O, my
dear, that you had the northern wizard's
power of evoking prosperous gales !"

I should be glad of that power," said I,
for better reasons than to help this man to
fight against his Sentence. Can you guess
what I would* do ? I would straightway blow
this old ship ashore. Dread the Africa coast
as you will, dear one, it will be our only
chance."

'' I dread it for its savages — the thought of
captivity beyond the mountains is horrible !
I have heard my father tell of the wreck of
an East Indiamen named the Grosvenor, in
which were ladies of distinction, who were
seized by the natives and carried far inland
and made wives of. That is not more than
twenty years ago. O, Geoffrey, sooner than
that — I would be content to die in this ship
to go on sailing about in her till my hair
was as white as the foam about our keel !"
and as she said this she grasped a handful of

her golden hair and held it to me, unconscious
in the earnestness of her fears of the
child-like simplicity of her action. I put my
lips to the tress, that flowed from her head
through the snow of her hand and thence
down like a stream of sunny light or the
raining of the jet of a golden-fountain, and
told her not to fear, that I loved the natives
as little as she, and would contrive to give
them a wide berth ; and then I changed the
subject by wondering what the consequences
would be if last night's business and Wanders
talk this morning put it into the
minds of the crew that I was as much a
wizard as any Finn and could control the
breezes if I chose.

She shook her head. " Better that they
should regard you as what you really are —
an English sailor. Suppose they persuaded
themselves that you could raise and sell
winds, they might determine to test you,
and imprison, even torture you in the belief

you were stubborn and would not do their
bidding ; or, if they came to consider you a
wizard, they might think your presence in
the ship unlucky, and, being half-savages,
with demons for souls, as I believe, and with
instincts belonging to a time when the world
was brutal and human life held in no account
there is no imagining how they would
serve you."

"Oh, Imogene !" cried I, 'you are my
good angel "

"A true sweetheart must ever be that to
the boy she loves," she whispered, looking
down and softly blushing.

'you are my true sweetheart, Imogene!
And how faithfully you are able to guide me
through the marvellous experience we are
both passing through, I know by the words
you have just uttered," mind I went on to tell
her how Van Vogelaar had under his breath
talked as if to himself of my being a curse in
the ship.

As I said this, Prins came to the cabin
door, and stood looking in. Perceiving him,
Imogene rose and saying quietly, " He has
perhaps been sent to report if we are together
; go you on deck, dearest ; I will
join you, presently," went to her berth.

END OF VOLUME II.

TILLOrSON AND SON, MAWDSLEY STREET

BOLTON
